OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

272 U. S.

the application of the principle of Adams v. Burke, 17
Wall. 453, 456, already referred to, that a patentee may
not attach to the article made by him,or with his consent,
a condition running with the article in the hands of purchasers, limiting the price at which one who becomes its
owner for full consideration shall part with it. They do
not consider or condemn a restriction put by a patentee
upon his licensee as to the prices at which the latter shall
sell articles which he makes and only can make legally
under the license. The authority of Bement v. Harrow
Company has not been shaken by the cases we have
reviewed.
For the reasons given, we sustain the validity of the
license granted by the Electric Company to the Westinghouse Company. The decree of the District Court
dismissing the bill is
Affirmed.
HANOVER FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY v. HARDING, COUNTY TREASURER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.

No. 179. Argued October 18, 1926.-Decided November 23, 1926.
1. While a State may forbid a foreign corporation to do business
within its jurisdiction, or to continue it, and may fix conditions
under which the exercise of the privilege may be allowed, it may
not do so by imposing upon the corporation a sacrifice of its rights
under the Federal Constitution. Pp. 507, 509.
2. At the end of the period for which a license to do local business
has been granted to a foreign corporation, the State may impose
as a condition precedent to a renewed license that its valid laws
shall have been complied with in the past. P. 514.
3. But the State may not make past compliance with an unconstitutional tax a condition precedent to renewal of the license.
P. 514.
4. A decision of a state Supreme Court construing a local law taxing
foreign corporations as imposing a privilege tax rather than L
property tax, is binding on this Court; but this Court, in deter-

HANOVER INS. CO. v. HARDING.
494

Statement of the Case.

mining the applicability of the equal protection clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment, must decide, independently, whether the
tax is part of the condition upon which admission to do business
in the State is permitted and is merely a regulating license by the
State to protect the State and its citizens in dealing with such
corporation, or whether it is a tax law for the purpose of securing
contributions to the revenue of the State as they are made by
other taxpayers of the State. Pp. 509, 511.
5. A foreign corporation which is duly admitted to do business in a
State is to be classified with similar domestic corporations in testing the equality of the laws enacted for the purpose of raising
revenue. P. 511.
6. An Illinois tax on the local net receipts of foreign insurance
companies was long construed and applied as a tax on personal
property; and, like other personal property taxes, partly by law
and partly by custom, was assessed on only 30% of the full value;
but afterwards, by a change of construction, it was held to be an
occupation or privilege tax, laid on such corporations annually, as
a condition to their right to do business in Illinois; with the result
that all of their local net income was taxed at the rate applicable to
personal property, while domestic corporations of the same class
and engaged in the same kinds of business paid only a tax on their
personal property, assessed at the reduced valuation. Held a discrimination which denied the equal protection of the laws to a
foreign corporation which had renewed its license in Illinois from
year to year, built up a large business and good will in that State,
and had many agents there and extensive records containing information concerning its policies and policyholders. P. 516.
317 Ill. 366, reversed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Illinois
which affirmed a judgment dismissing the bill of the Insurance Company, a New York corporation, against Carr,
the treasurer and tax collector of Cook County, Illinois.
The bill prayed an injunction to prevent distraint of the
plaintiff's property under a warrant for taxes due under
an Illinois law which the bill challenged as unconstitutional under the state constitution and the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Harding,
treasurer of Cook County, was substituted in this Court
for Carr, his predecessor in office.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

272 U. S.

Mr. Charles E. Hughes, with whom Messrs. Charles S.
Deneen, Robert J. Folonie, and Frederick D. Silber were
on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
This Court, ascertaining from the decisions of the state
court and from the admitted facts in the pleadings what
is the operation of the Act, will determine for itself
whether, in view of such operation, it infringes the Constitution. Truax v. Corrigan, 257 U. S. 312; Western
Union Tel. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1; St. Louis Cotton
Co. v. Arkansas, 260 U. S. 346; Crew-Levick Co. v. Pennsylvania, 245 U. S. 292; Choctaw R. Co. v. Harrison, 235
U. S. 292; Pullman Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 56. If the
operation of the law infringes upon guaranties under the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution, it may not
be validated by claims of waiver upon entry of plaintiff
into the State or by claim of sovereign right to exclude
foreign corporations. Pullman Co. v. Kansas, supra;
Terral v. Burke Const. Co., 257 U. S. 529; Frost v. R. R.
Comm., 271 U. S. 583; Doyle v. Continental Ins. Co., 94
U. S. 535.
Upon its face, § 30 of the Act of March 11, 1869, is a
revenue measure imposing taxes upon property. The
history of the Act, as well as its context, demonstrates
that it was intended to lay a property tax and it has been
consistently so administered. It was originally enacted
as part of a revenue act for taxing property generally.
The tax has repeatedly been declared to be a property
tax by the courts of Illinois. Walker v. Springfield, 94
Ill. 364; Chicago v. Phoenix Ins. Co., 126 Ill. 276; People
v. Cosmopolitan Ins. Co., 246 Ill. 442. The statutes upon
compliance with which insurance companies are permitted
to do business in Illinois are distinct and independent enactments. The courts of Illinois have repeatedly declared
that the tax here under consideration is to be administered
and applied exactly as taxes upon other property. Walker
v. Springfield, supra; Chicago v. James, 114 Ill. 479;

HANOVER INS. CO. v. HARDING.
494

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Chicago v. Phoenix Ins. Co., supra;People v. Cosmopolitan Ins. Co., supra.

The provisions of § 30 of the Act of March 11, 1869, are
not conditions precedent to doing business in the State.
Fidelity Co. v. Board of Review, 264 Ill. 11. The net
receipts subject to taxation are personal property, and a
tax thereon is a personal tax. People v. Kent, 300 II. 324.
The provisions of § 30 are not a condition for the doing
of business in Illinois by foreign insurance companies.
People v. Barrett, 309 Ill. 53. The exaction is a tax imposed after the business has been done. The tax is designed to be "in lieu of the taxes that would otherwise
be realized from such net receipts as are taken away."
Hanover Ins. Co. v. Carr,317 Ill. 366. The tax is declared
to be a "business tax" and therefore is not a privilege tax
imposed as a condition for entry into the State. It is an
exaction for raising revenue for maintenance of the government. Hanover Ins. Co. v. Carr, supra. An occupation tax must operate alike on all persons and
corporations engaged in the insurance business, otherwise
it denies the equal protection of the laws. Hanover Ins.
Co. v. Carr, supra, (dissenting opinion); Nebraska Tel.
Co. v. City, 82 Neb. 59.
A consideration of the general principles applicable to
a tax of the type here for review shows that it is a tax
upon property subject to incidents of property taxation.
It has none of the attributes of a license tax, and all of the
attributes of a property tax. People v. CosmopolitanIns.
Co., supra; Thompson v. McLeod, 112 Miss. 383; Thompson v. Kreutzer, 112 Miss. 165; Brown v. Maryland, 12
Wheat 444; Phoenix Ins. Co. v. Omaha, 23 Neb. 312;
New York Ins. Co. v. Bradley, 83 S. C. 418; Parker v.
North British Ins. Co., 42 La. Ann. 428. The tax being
one for revenue is none the less of that character because
it incidentally burdens a class of business. Bailey v.
Drexel Co., 259 U. S. 20.
23468-27-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

272 U. S.

Taxation of the net receipts of plaintiff in error at full
value, whereas other personal property was systematically
and intentionally valued for assessment purposes at less
than full value, operates as a denial of the equal protection
of the laws. Sioux City Bridge Co. v. Dakota County,
265 U. S. 441.
The unconstitutional action of the taxing bodies, approved by the Supreme Court of Illinois, in denying the
equal protection of the law to plaintiff in error, makes
the tax levy and exaction illegal even if the statute be
constitutional. Greene v. Louisville R. R. Co., 244 U. S.
499; Reagan v. FarmersL. & T. Co., 154 U. S. 362; Tank
Car Corp. v. Day, 270 U. S. 367; Myles Salt Co. v. Drainage Dist., 239 U. S. 478. Equal protection of the law is
not satisfied by uniformity of tax rate where uniformity
of valuation is lacking. Greene v. Louisville R. R. Co.,
supra; Cummings v. Merch. Nat. Bank, 101 U. S. 153;
Exchange Bank v. Hines, 3 Oh. St. 1; People v. Purdy,
231 U. S. 373.
If the tax be considered as an excise tax upon occupation or business, it is unconstitutional as administered
and applied. It is unlawful for Illinois to impose conditions for the doing of business, in derogation of the
guaranties of the Fourteenth Amendment. Western
Union Tel. Co. v. Kansas, supra; Fidelity Co. v. Tafoya,
270 U. S. 426; Frostv. R. R. Comm., supra; Doyle v. Continental Ins. Co., supra. Plaintiff in error, having complied with all conditions precedent to entry into the State,
thereby became domiciled to such an extent that, after
being so lawfully in the State, it was entitled to equal
protection of the laws. Home Mining Co. v. New York,
143 U. S. 305; Erie R. R. Co. v. State, 31 N. J. L. 542;
Judson, Taxation, 2d ed., § 178; Waterman, Corporations,
vol. 2, p. 283.
The imposition of a business tax whereby. one in the
business is burdened in a much greater degree than others

HANOVER INS. CO. v. HARDING.
494

Argument for Defendant in Error.

engaged in the same business denies equal protection of
the laws. Cotting v. Goddard, 183 U. S. 79; Southern Ry.
Co. v. Greene, 216 U. S. 400; Berry v. City, 320 Ill. 536;
Chalker v. Birmingham Ry. Co., 249 U. S. 522; Truax v.
Corrigan, 257 U. S. 312; Magoun v. Illinois Bank, 170
U. S. 283. The classification made by the statute, as
construed by the Supreme Court of Illinois, is arbitrary
and illusory and has no fair or substantial relation to the
proper objects sought to be accomplished by the legislature. Royster Guano Co. v. Virginia,253 U. S. 412. See
also Mutual Life Assn. v. Augusta, 109 Ga. 79; Wright v.
Southern Tel. Co., 127 Ga. 227; Pullman Co. v. State, 64
Tex. 274.
Messrs. Benson Landon. and Leon Hornstein, with
whom Messrs. Francis X. Busch, Hiram T. Gilbert,
Clair E. More, and HarrisF. Williams were on the brief,
for defendant in error.
The State of Illinois had the right to prescribe the
terms and conditions upon which plaintiff in error
might transact business within the borders of the State.
Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168; Ducat v. Chicago, 10 Wall.
410; Liverpool Ins. Co. v. Massachusetts, 10 Wall. 566;
Fire Assn. v. New York, 119 U. S. 110; Pembina Mining
Co. v. Pennsylvania, 125 U. S. 181; Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141 U. S. 47; Horn Mining Co. v. New York, 143
U. S. 305; Hooper v. California, 155 U. S. 648; Baltic
Mining Co. v. Massachusetts,231 U. S. 68; Cheney Bros.
Co. v. Massachusetts, 246 U. S. 147; Maine v. Grand
Trunk R. Co., 142 U. S. 217; Oliver Mining Co. v. Lord,
262 U. S. 173; St. Louis Cotton, Co. v. Arkansas, 260 U. S
346; Clement Bank v. Vermont, 231 U. S. 120; Truax v.
Corrigan,257 U. S. 312. Whether the tax in question is
a privilege tax or a property tax is immaterial. The State
may impose upon a foreign corporation a property tax
different from that imposed upon a domestic corporation.

500

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

272 U. S.

The validity of the tax, or its character, is not determined
by the mode adopted in fixing its amount. Horn Mining
Co. v. New York, supra; Cheney Bros. Co. v. Massachusetts, 246 U. S. 147; Maine v. Grand Trunk, supra; Home
Ins. Co. v. New York, 134 U. S. 594.
The decision of the Supreme Court of Illinois that
the tax provided for by § 30 of the Act of 1869 is
required to be extended against the entire amount of
net receipts, being a construction of a statute of that
State, is binding upon this Court and furnishes no ground
of relief to the complainant. People v. Kent, 300 Ill.
324; People v. Barrett, 309 Ill. 53; Hanover In8. Co. v.
Carr, 317 Ill. 366; Truax v. Corrigan, 257 U. S. 312;
St. Louis Cotton Co. v. Arkansas, supra; Illinois Constitution, Art. X, § 1.
The Casualty Insurance Company Act does not operate
to nullify § 30 of the Act of 1869, the State having power
to discriminate between the different classes of companies.
Northwestern Ins. Co. v. Wisconsin, 247 U. S. 132;
Cheney Bros. Co. v. Massachusetts, 246 U. S. 147; Ohio
Tax Cases, 232 U. S. 576; Armour Co. v. Lacey, 200
U. S. 226; Singer Co. v. Bricknell, 233 U. S. 304; Connolly v. Union Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540; Ft. Smith Lumber Co. v. Arkansas, 251 U. S. 532; Quong Wing v.
Kirkendall, 223 U. S. 59; Southwestern Oil Co. v. Texas,
217 U. S. 114.
The Privilege Act of 1919 does not affect § 30 of the
Act of 1869. Horn Mining Co. v. New York, supra;
Cheney Bros. Co. v. Massachusetts, supra; Baltic Mining
Co. v. Massachusetts, supra; Liverpool Ins. Co. v. Alassachusetts, supra; American Ref. Co. v. Colorado, 204
U. S. 103; Southern Ry. Co. v. Greene, 216 U. S. 400.
The dissenting opinion is not supported by the authorities cited. Southern Ry. Co. v. Greene, supra; Security
Loan Assn. v. Albert, 153 Ind. 198; Cheney Bros. Co. v.

HANOVER INS. CO. v. HARDING.
494

Opinion of the Court.

Massachusetts, supra; Greene v. Kentenia Corp., 175 Ky.
661; Fire Assn. v. New York, 119 U. S. 110.
Every reasonable presumption must be indulged in
favor of the validity of a statute when it is attacked as
unconstitutional and it must be sustained unless its invalidity is clearly demonstrated. Sweet v. Rechel, 159 U. S.
380; Livingston County v. Darlington, 101 U. S. 407;
Nicol v. Ames, 173 U. S. 509; Buttfield v. Stranahan,
192 U. S. 492; Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 685.
MR. CHIEF JusTicE TArT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a writ of error under § 237 of the Judicial Code
to the judgment of the Supreme Court of Illinois, affirming a decree of the Superior Court of Cook County dismissing the bill of the Hanover Fire Insurance Company,
a corporation of New York, against Patrick J. Carr,
County Treasurer and ex-officio tax collector of Cook
County, Illinois. The prayer was for an injunction to
prevent the distraint of the property of the complainant
under a warrant for the collection of $10,678.50, as taxes
due under a law of Illinois, which law, the bill averred,
denied to the complainant the equal protection of the
laws under the Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal
Constitution.
The defendant filed an answer denying the claims of
the bill and, after a reply, the case was heard by the trial
court, which made findings of fact in its decree based on a
stipulation by the parties, and entered a decree as set
forth below.
The law in question reads as follows:
"Foreign Companies.-Tax on net receipts. Section
30. Every agent of any insurance company, incorporated
by the authority of any other State or government, shall
return to the proper officer of the county, town or munici-

502

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U.S.

pality in which the agency is established, in the month of
May, annually, the amount of the net receipts of such
agency for the preceding year, which shall be entered on
the tax lists of the county, town and municipality, and
subject to the same rate of taxation, for all purposes-State, county, town and municipal-that other personal
property is subject to at the place where located; said
tax to be in lieu of all town and municipal licenses; and
all laws and parts of laws inconsistent herewith are hereby
repealed: Provided, that the provisions of this section
shall not be construed to prohibit cities having an organized fire department from levying a tax, or license fee,
not exceeding two per cent. in accordance with the provisions of their respective charters, on the gross receipts
of such agency, to be applied exclusively to the support
of the fire department of such city." Cahill's Ill. Rev.
Stat. 1925, c. 73, § 159, p. 1405.
This had been in force since 1869 and was part of the
Act of March 11, of that year, entitled "An Act to incorporate and to govern fire, marine and inland navigation
insurance companies doing business in the State of
Illinois." The section was amended to the above form by
an Act approved May 31, 1879.
By section 22 and other sections of the original Act
of 1869 (Cahill's Ill. Rev. Stat. 1925, c. 73, § 150, p. 1402),
it was made unlawful for a foreign insurance company to
transact any insurance business in the State unless it had
a prescribed amount of capital, appointed an attorney in
the State on whom process of law could be served, filed a
properly certified copy of the charter or deed of settlement
of the insurance company, showing its name and the place
where located, the amount of its capital and a detailed
statement of its assets, together with its indebtedness, the
losses adjusted and unpaid, the amount incurred and in
process of adjustment, and a copy of its last annual report. It was required also to deposit with the Director

HANOVER INS. CO. v. HARDING.
494

503

Opinion of the Court.

of Trade and Commerce of the State, for the benefit and
security of the policy holders residing in the United
States, a sum of not less than $200,000 in 6 per centum
stock of the United States or the State of Illinois, or approved mortgage securities, with a provision that, so long
as the company should continue solvent and comply with
the laws of the State, it might collect the interest on these
securities. The law provided that it should not be lawful for the agents of the company to transact business
without procuring annually from the Director of Trade
and Commerce the authority stating that such company
had complied with all the requisitions of the act which
applied to it; that any violation of the provisions of the
act should subject the one violating it to a penalty not
exceeding $500 for each violation; that such insurance
companies should make annual statements of their condition and affairs to the Director of Trade and Commerce
in the same manner and in the same form as similar insurance companies organized under the laws of the State,
on or before the first day of March in each year for the
year ending on the preceding 30th of September. The
Insurance Superintendent was given authority by the
same act to investigate affairs of the foreign companies,
such investigation to be at the expense of the company,
and, if he found the condition of any one unsound, to close
up the business of the company by application to the circuit court of the county in which it had its principal office.
By the same act, each foreign company was required to
pay $30 for filing the charter, $10 for filing the annual
statement required, and $2 for each certificate of authority for agents, and certain other fees of a similar character.
Paragraphs 150, 152, 156, Cahill's Rev. Stat. Ill. 1925,
c. 73.
By the Act of June 28, 1919 (Cahill's Ill. Rev. Stat.
1925, c. 73, § 79, p. 1390), it was provided that each nonresident corporation licensed and admitted to do an insur-

504

OCTOBER. TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

ance business in the State should pay an annual state tax
for the privilege of so doing, equal to 2 per centum of the
gross amount of premiums received during the preceding
calendar year on contracts covering risks within the State
after certain reductions; that the tax should be in lieu
of all license fees or privilege or occupation taxes levied
or assessed by any municipality in the State, and that
no municipality should impose any license fee, privilege
or occupation tax upon such corporation for the privilege
of doing an insurance business therein, but this should
not be construed to prohibit the levy and collection of
any state, county or municipal taxes upon the real and
personal property of such corporations, or the levying and
collection of taxes authorized by § 30, above quoted.
By § 12 of the same act (Cahill's Ill. Rev. Stat., c. 73,
§ 90, p. 1391), it was provided that, if any corporation
should fail or neglect to make any report, or refuse to pay
any tax assessment within thirty days after the same became due, the Department of Trade and Commerce should
have power to revoke its license to transact the business
of insurance in the State, or to suspend it until the
reports were filed or the taxes paid.
The complainant insurance company complied with
the requirements of § 22 and other unrepealed sections of
the Act of 1869, and paid the 2 per cent. tax on its
premiums received, as provided by the Act of 1919.
By the General Revenue Act of Illinois, in force since
February 25, 1898 (Cahill's Rev. Stat. 1925, c. 120, § 329,
p. 2042), personal property is to be valued at its fair
cash value, which value is to be set down in one column to be headed "Full Value," and one-half part thereof
is to be ascertained and set down in another column
headed "Assessed Value." The one-half value of all
the property so ascertained and set down is to be the
value for all purposes of taxation. It is further stipulated
in this case and found by the trial court, that for the

0

HANOVER INS. CO. v. HARDING.

494

Opinion of the Court.

505

year 1923, and for many years prior thereto, there has
been what is called an equalization, which systematically
and intentionally reduces the amount set down in the
column headed "Full Value" to not more than 60 per
cent. of the actual market value of the personal property
returned, and, by further reducing this by 50 per cent.
to make the assessed value in accord with the statute, the
tax is collected only on 30 per cent. of the full value.
This suit presents the question of the validity of the
assessment made by taxing officers under § 30 for the
year 1922. The Supreme Court of Illinois, in People v.
Barrett, 309 Ill. 53, in an opinion announced June 20,
1923, near the close of the year for which thee assessment
of 1922 was made, held that the tax under § 30 was an
occupation tax, and that no reduction should be permitted to foreign insurance companies in the assessment for
taxation of their annual net receipts. The Superior
Court found that the actual amount of net cash receipts
of the complainant company was $90,824, less by $45,000
than the amount reported by the Board of Review, so
that its decree forbade the collection of more than
$7,184.18, instead of $10,678.50, for which the warrant
had issued, but denied further relief. The complainant insisted that, under the previous practice and proper construction of § 30, as a property tax with due equalization
and debasement, the tax assessed should have been
$2,155.24, and that this, if anything, is all that should be
collected from it. The Supreme Court, by a divided court,
three judges dissenting, affirmed the decree of the
Superior Court. Hanover Fire Insurance Co. v. Carr,
317 Ill. 366.
The petitioner is an insurance corporation, organized
under the laws of the State of New York. By its charter,
it is authorized to do a business of insurance against the
hazard of fire, marine perils, inland navigation, tornado,
theft, explosion, property damage to automobiles and

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

other property by collision, crop insurance, and other
similar lines of insurance, against specified hazards. There
are in Illinois domestic insurance companies, which do
business in all of such risks. In Fidelity & Casualty
Company v. Board of Review, 264 Ill. 11, decided in 1914,
the Supreme Court held that the only insurance companies whose receipts come within § 30 are foreign fire,
marine and inland navigation insurance companies, doing
business in the State. And if they do business in the
other hazards above stated, as the complainant and petitioner is authorized to do, then they must pay taxes on
their net receipts made, not only from fire, marine and
inland navigation company business, but also from the
other hazards.
The situation, then, is that a foreign fire, marine and
inland navigation insurance company, like the petitioner,
must pay at a rate per centum equivalent to that imposed
on personal property, a tax on the cash amount or 100 per
cent. of its net receipts from all its insurance business. A
domestic fire, marine and inland navigation insurance
company pays no tax on its net receipts from any kind
of insurance. Both pay on their personal property other
than net receipts, as of a fixed date in each year, on an
assessment of 30 per cent. of its full value.
The Supreme Court of Illinois for many years held the
payment of a tax on the net receipts was a tax on personal property. Walker v. Springfield, 94 Ill. 364; City
of Chicago v. James, 114 Ill. 479; Chicago v. Phoenix Insurance Company, 126 Ill. 276; National Fire Insurance
Company v. Hanberg, 215 Ill. 378; People v. Cosmopolitan Fire Insurance Company, 246 Ill. 442. The net
receipts were the gross receipts from each agency after
the operating expenses had been deducted. The losses
from fire and other risks assumed were not deducted.
National FireInsurance Co. v. Hanberg, 215 Ill. 378. It
is quite apparent from reading these cases that, in prac-

HANOVER INS. CO. v. HARDING.
494

507

Opinion of the Court.

tice, the net receipts were treated as personal property,
and their assessment was by equalization and debasement
reduced from full value, as all other personal property,
until the decisions in People v. Kent, 300 Ill. 324 (1921)
and in People v. Barrett, 309 Ill. 53.
The general principle upon which the Supreme Court
of Illinois holds the tax complained of herein to be valid,
is that the payment of it is part of the condition which
the petitioner as a foreign insurance company is obliged
to perform, in order to maintain and retain its right to
do business in the State. It was settled in the Bank of
Augusta v. Earle, 13 Pet. 519; Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall.
168; Ducat v. Chicago, 10 Wall. 410, and HornSilverMining Company v. New York, 143 U. S. 305, that foreign
corporations can not do business in a State except by the
consent of the State; that the State may exclude them
arbitrarily or impose such conditions as it will upon their
engaging in business within its jurisdiction. But there is
a very important qualification to this power of the State,
tihe recognition and enforcement of which are shown in a
number of decisions of recent years. That qualification is,
that the State may not exact as a condition of the corporation's engaging in business within its limits that its
rights secured to it by the Constitution of the United
States may be infringed. This is illustrated, in respect of
the breach of the commerce clause of the Constitution,
by the cases of Sioux Remedy Company v. Cope, 235 U. S.
197, 203, and Looney v. Crane7 Company, 245 U. S. 178,
188. It is illustrated in cases in which a provision of a
state law revoking the license of a foreign corporation for
exercising its constitutional right to remove suits brought
against them from the state courts to the federal courts,
has been held void, Terral v. Burke Construction Company, 257 U. S. 529; in cases in which the State has
vainly attempted to subject foreign corporations to a payment of a tax which is a tax not only on the property of

508

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

the corporation in the State but also on its property without the State, in violation of the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment, Western Union Telegraph Co.
v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1; St. Louis Cotton Compress Company v. Arkansas, 260 U. S. 346; and finally in cases of a
class to which it is contended the present case belongs,
where a tax or license law operates to deny to the foreign
corporation the equal protection of the laws, Southern
Railway Co. v. Greene, 216 U. S. 400; Air Way Corporation v. Day, 266 U. S. 71. In the former of these last
two cases, a railway corporation of another State had
come into Alabama and secured a license to do business
therein as an intrastate railway and, in course of that business, had acquired in the State property of a fixed and
permanent nature, upon which it had paid all the taxes
levied by the State. It was held that a new and additional
franchise tax, for the privilege of doing business within
the State, not imposed upon domestic corporations doing
business in the State of the same character, violated the
equal protection clause. In Air Way Corporationv. Day,
a corporation of Delaware had much or all of its property
in Ohio, where it was duly authorized to do business.
Thereafter, a law of Ohio imposed five cents a share upon
a certain proportion of non-par shares, authorized by the
State of Delaware, which the court found to be arbitrary
and not based on a classification of foreign corporations
having any reasonable basis.
In the present case, theie is no such permanent investment in the State of Illinois as there was in the Greene
case in Alabama, but the averments of the bill show, that
the complainant has from year to year secured renewal of
its license in the State of Illinois, and has through many
years past built up a large good will in the State of Illinois, and has associated with it a large number of agents
in the various counties of the State, whose connection
with it has resulted in a large and profitable business to

HANOVER INS. CO. v. HARDING.
494

Opinion of the Court.

the complainant, and that it has large numbers of records containing information respecting its policy holders,
the character and nature of their policies, and other records, the value of all of which would be destroyed if it
were excluded from the State by a denial of the equal protection of the laws. In the Greene case the license was
indefinite. In this case it must be renewed from year to
year, but the principle is the same, that pending the
period of business permitted by the State, the State
must not enforce against its licensees unconstitutional
burdens.
It is insisted that we must accept the construction of
§ 30 by the state Supreme Court, and, as the tax levied is
sustained by its construction and has been held by the
court to be an indispensable condition upon which the
petitioner may continue to do business in Illinois, this
Court is bound by both those conclusions.
It is true that the interpretation put upon such a tax
law of a State by its Supreme Court is binding upon this
Court as to its meaning; but it is not true that this
Court, in accepting the meaning thus given, may not exercise its independent judgment in determining whether,
with the meaning given, its effect would not involve a
violation of the Federal Constitution. As said by this
Court in St. Louis Southwestern Railway v. Arkansas,
235 U. S. 350, at page 362, where the question was
whether a tax law violated the equal protection clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment:
"Upon the mere question of construction we are of
c6urse concluded by the decision of the state court of last
resort. But when the question is whether a tax imposed
by a State deprives a party of rights secured by the Federal Constitution, the decision is not dependent upon the
form in which the taxing scheme is cast, nor upon the
characterization of that scheme as adopted by the state
court. We must regard the substance, rather than the

510

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

form, and the controlling test is to be found in the operation and effect of the law as applied and enforced by the
State."
This view has been upheld in many cases. Western
Union Telegraph Company v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1, 27;
Ludwig v. Western Union Telegraph Company, 216 U. S.
146; Sioux Remedy Company v. Cope, 235 U. S. 197;
St. Louis Cotton Compress Company v. Arkansas, 260
U. S. 346. In the last case, the question was whether
a foreign corporation doing business in Arkansas could be
required by a law of the State to pay a so-called occupation tax, upon premiums paid by it to insurance companies not doing business in Arkansas, for insurance upon
property of the corporation in Arkansas, the policies having been issued and accepted outside of Arkansas. This
Court held the tax invalid, as a violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. In reaching this conclusion, this
Court said (p. 348):
"The Supreme Court justified the imposition as an occupation tax-that is, as we understand it, a tax upon the
occupation of the defendant. But this Court although
bound by the construction that the Supreme Court may
put upon the statute is not bound by the characterization
of it so far as that characterization may bear upon the
question of its constitutional effect."
In subjecting a law of the State which imposes a charge
upon foreign corporations to the test Whether such a
charge violates the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, a line has to be drawn between the
burden imposed by the State for the license or privilege
to do business in the State, and the tax burden which,
having secured the right to do business, the foreign corporation must share with all the corporations and other
taxpayers of the State. With respect to the admission
fee, so to speak, which the foreign corporation must pay,
to become a quasi citizen of the State and entitled to

HANOVER INS. CO. v. HARDING.
494

Opinion of the Court.

equal privileges with citizens of the State, the measure of the burden is in the discretion of the State, and
any inequality as between the foreign corporation and
the domestic corporation in that regard does not come
within the inhibition of the Fourteenth Amendment; but,
after its admission, the foreign corporation stands equal,
and is to be classified with domestic corporations of the
same kind.
In this class of cases, therefore, the question of the a..
plication of the equal protection clause turns on the stage
at which the foreign corporation is put on a level with
domestic corporations, in engaging in business within the
State. To leave the determination of such a question
finally to a state court would be to deprive this Court
Of its independent judgment in determining whether a
federal constitutional limitation has been infringed.
While we may not question the meaning of the tax law,
as interpreted by the state court, in the manner and
effect in which it is to be enforced, we must re-examine
the question passed upon by the state court, as to whether
the law complained of is a part of the condition upon
which admission to do business of the State is permitted
and is merely a regulating license by the State to protect
the State and its citizens in dealing with such corporation,
or whether it is a tax law for the purpose of securing contributions to the revenue of the State as they are made by
other taxpayers of the State. Our power and duty in this
regard must follow from our decisions, and while the exact
question has not heretofore been considered, there can be
no doubt that our conclusion finds its complete support
in the analogies of other cases in which we have had to
determine what our duty is in dealing with the alleged
invalidity of state legislation. Bailey v. Alabama, 219 U.
S. 219, 239; Corn Products Co. v. Eddy, 249 U. S. 427,
432; Appleby v. New York, 271 U. S. 364; Truax v. Corrigan, 257 U. S. 312, 324, 325. What, therefore, we have

512

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

to decide here is whether the application of § 30 can be
one of the conditions upon which the insurance company
is admitted to do business in Illinois, or whether, under
the law of 1919, the authority granted by the Department
of Trade and Commerce, for which the company paid 2
per cent. of gross premiums received the previous year
by it, put it upon a level with domestic insurance companies doing business of the same character.
It is plain that compliance with § 30 is not a condition
precedent to permission to do business in Illinois. The
state Supreme Court concedes this, but its reasoning that
payment of the tax under the section is a condition to its
doing business in Illinois, which may vary at the will of
the State without regard to taxes on similar domestic corporations, is shown by the following passages:
"The fact that a tax is a privilege tax does not necessarily require that it be paid as a condition precedent to
entering the State. Such a condition, being precedent,
could of course be met but once. However, the greatest
financial benefit to sitch a company flows from the continuation of the privilege to do business. Compensation
for that privilege should be based on the benefits actually
derived from the business done under such privilege, and
such compensation must necessarily be assessed in some
manner after the business is done and the benefits thereof
received. Section 30 provides the method by which the
amount of this compensation shall be determined and
assessed." (p. 373.)
" Section 22 of the act relating to fire, marine and inland
navigation insurance, aside from specifying certain requirements imposed upon foreign insurance companies
seeking to do business in this state and specifying what
shall be necessary to secure the right of entry, further
provides: 'Nor shall it be lawful for any agent or agents
to act for any company or companies referred to in this
section, directly or indirectly, in taking risks or transact-

HANOVER INS. CO. v. HARDING.
Opinion of the Court.

494

ing the business of fire and inland navigation insurance in
this state without procuring annually from the Insurance
Superintendent a certificate of authority stating that such
company has complied with all the requisitions of this act
which apply to such companies and the name of the
attorney appointed to act for the company.' The provision of section 30 requiring the return of net receipts of
this tax, are a part of the 'requisitions of this act.' It is
evident, therefore, from the language in section 22 quoted,
that before the appellant may continue in business in this
state, its agent shall procure annually from the Insurance
Superintendent of the State or his successor in law, a
certificate showing that it has complied with the requireinents of section 30 with reference to this tax. Such
certificate can not be lawfully issued without such showing. This act provides no other means of collecting such
tax and no reference is made for its collection." (p. 374.)
The Court then refers to another Act which imposes a
penalty for violation of § 30 by placing risks or policies
of indemnity upon property in any other manner than
through regularly authorized agents, and justifying a
revocation of the license for a period of not less than
ninety days, and that it shall not be reissued until it
appears that there is complete compliance with the laws
of the State governing such companies, and until it has
been shown that all taxes and penalties and expenses due
thereunder have been paid.
"It seems clear, therefore," says the Court (p. 375),
"that this tax is levied as compensation for the privilege
of continuing their business in the State.
"While the Act of 1919 . . . imposes an annual state
tax equal to two per cent. on the gross amount of the
premiums received by any foreign insurance company
during the preceding year. . . . that fact does not show
that the tax imposed on the business of fire insurance by
section 30 is not likewise a tax for the privilege of doing
28468'-27-33

514

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

business. The Act of 1919 requires that the tax there
levied be paid to the State. Section 30 requires that the
tax be apportioned among the State and the different
municipalities of the situs of the agency. A valid reason is seen for this distribution of the tax. The foreign
fire insurance company takes its net proceeds largely
from the vicinity of its agencies and it is but just that it
return to the municipality in which its agency is located
something in lieu of the taxes that would otherwise be
realized from such net receipts as are taken away."
The view of the Court seems to be that the constitutional necessity for equal application of the laws of the
State to foreign and domestic corporations properly engaged in business, is avoided if only the State provides
that failure to comply with the laws during the period, or
at the end of the period, for which the license runs, justifies a revocation of the license pending the period, or a
refusal to grant a new license for the following year. We
do not think the State may thus relieve itself from granting the equal protection of its laws to a foreign company
which has met the conditions precedent to its becoming
a quasi domestic citizen. Of course, at the end of the
year for which the license has been granted, the State
may in its discretion impose, as conditions precedent for
a renewed license, past compliance with its valid laws;
but that does not enable the State to make past compliance with § 30 a condition precedent .to a renewal of
the license, if, as we find, that section violates the Fourteenth Amendment; for, as already said, while a State
may forbid a foreign corporation to do business within
its jurisdiction, or to continue it, it may not do so by
imposing on a corporation a sacrifice of its constitutional
rights. We have said in Cheney Broe. Co. v. Massachusetts, 246 U. S. 147, and in Kansas City, etc., Railroad
Company v. Stiles, 242 U. S. 111, 118, that a State does
not surrender or abridge its power to change and revise

HANOVER INS. CO. v. HARDING.
494

515

Opinion of the Court.

its taxing system and tax rates by merely licensing or
permitting a foreign corporation to engage in local business and acquire property within its limits, and that a
State may impose a different rate of taxation upon a foreign corporation for the privilege of doing business within
the State than it applies to its own corporations upon the
franchise which the State grants them; but the decision
in Southern Railway Company v. Greene, supra, shows
that this power to change the tax imposed on a foreign
corporation as a condition for the license of continuing
business, is not unlimited, and that any attempt, in a
renewal, to vary the terms of the original license, which,
however indirectly, enforces a new condition upon the
corporation and involves a deprivation of its federal
constitutional rights, can not be effective. The State, in
dealing with foreign corporations, may properly and without discrimination as between them and domestic companies, regulate the former by a provisionL that, for a
failure by them to comply with any valid law governing
the conduct of their business in the State, the license
already granted may be revoked. That is a legitimate
condition in the treatment of foreign companies which
do not have property and home within the State. It is a
police regulation. But the power thus to revoke a license
for breach of a law can only be validly exercised if the law
be a constitutional one. By compliance with the valid
conditions precedent, the foreign insurance company is
put on a level with all other insurance companies of the
same kind, domestic or foreign, within the State; and
tax laws made to apply after it has been so received into
the State are to be considered laws enacted for the purpose of raising revenue for the State and must conform
to the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. This conclusion is not only in accord with our previous decisions, but is sustained by the reasoning in a
satisfactory judgment of the Court of Errors and Appeals

516

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

of New Jersey. Erie Railway Co. v. State, 31 N. J. L.
531, 542, 543, 544.
We thus reach the question whether a tax imposed
upon foreign fire, marine and inland navigation insurance companies on the net receipts of all their business,
whether fire, marine, inland navigation or other risks,
is a denial of the equal protection of the laws, when
domestic insurance companies pay no taxes on such net
receipts. Under the previous decisions of the Supreme
Court of Illinois, when the net receipts were treated as
personal property and the assessment thereon as a personal property tax subjected to the same reductions for
equalization and debasement, it might well have been
said that there was no substantial inequality as between
domestic corporations and foreign corporations, in that
the net receipts were personal property acquired during
the year and removed by foreign companies out of the
State, and could be required justly to yield a tax fairly
equivalent to that which the domestic companies would
have to pay on all their personal property, including their
net receipts or what they were invested in. It was this
view, doubtless, which led to the acquiescence by the state
authorities and the foreign insurance companies in such a
construction of § 30, and in the practice under it. But
an occupation tax imposed upon 100 per cent. of the net
receipts of foreign insurance companies admitted to do
business in Illinois, is a heavy discrimination in favor
of domestic insurance companies of the same class and
in the same business, which pay only a tax on the assessment of personal property at a valuation reduced to onehalf of 60 per cent. of the full value of that property. It
is a denial of the equal protection of the laws. Sunday
Lake Iron Co. v. Wakefield, 247 U. S. 350, 352, 353;
Southern Ry. Co. v. Greene, 216 U. S. 400. Analogous
cases are many. Cummings v. National Bank, 101 U. S.
153; Greene v. Louismnlle R. R. Co., 244 U. S. 499, 516;

DEUTSCHE BANK v. HUMPHREY.
494

Syllabus.

Sioux City Bridge v. Dakota County, 260 U. S. 441, 445;
Taylor v. L. & N. R. R., 88 Fed. 350; L. & N. R. R. v.
Bosworth, 209 Fed. 380, 452; Washington Water Power
Co. v. Kootenai County, 270 Fed. 369, 374.
One argument urged against our conclusion is that the
relation of a foreign insurance company to the State
which permits it to do business within its limits, is contractual, and that, by coming into the State and engaging in business on the conditions imposed, it waives all
constitutional restrictions, and can not object to a condition or law regulating its obligations, even though, as a
statute operating in invitum, it may be in conflict with
constitutional limitations. This argument can not prevail
in view of the decisions of this Court in well considered
cases. Insurance Co. v. Morse, 20 Wall. 445; Western
Union Telegraph Company v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1; Terral
v. Burke ConstructionCo., 257 U. S. 529; Fidelity & Deposit Company v. Tafoya, 270 U. S. 426; Frost v. Railroad Commission, 271.U. S. 583.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Illinois must
be reversed and the case remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
DEUTSCHE

BANK FILIALE
HUMPHREY.

NURNBERG

v.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 224.

Submitted October 12, 1926.-Decided November 23, 1926.

1. An obligation in terms of the currency of a country takes the
risk of currency fluctuations and whether creditor or debtor profits
by the change the law takes no account of it. P. 519.
2. In an action brought here on a debt arising from a deposit made
in Germany and payable there on demand, in marks, it is erroneous
to translate the amount due into dollars at the rate of exchange

