MOUNT PLEASANT v. BEcKWITH.

[Sup.

t

were bound to purchase its benefits by surrendering to it their
pensions.
As the Court of Claims acted on this construction, its judgment is
Affirmed.

MOUNT PLEASANT v. BECKWITH.
1. Where no constitutional restriction is imposed, the corporate existence and
powers of counties, cities, and towns are subject to the legislative control of
the State creating them.
2. Where a municipal corporation is legislated out of existence and its territory
annexed to other corporations, the latter, unless the legislature otherwise
provides, become entitled to all its property and immunities, and severally
liable for a proportionate share of all its then subsisting legal debts, and
vested with its power to raise revenue wherewith to pay them by levying
taxes upon the property transferred and the persons residing thereon.
8. The remedy of the creditors of the extinguished corporation is in equity
against the corporations succeeding to its property and powers.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Eastern District of Wisconsin.
In 1873, Charles Beckwith filed his bill in the court below,
against the town of Mount Pleasant, the town'of Caledonia,
and the city of Racine, in Racine County, Wisconsin, to enforce the payment of certain bonds issued in the year 1853, by
the town of Racine in said county, in payment of stock for
which it subscribed in the Racine, Janesville, and Mississippi
Railroad Company.
The legislature of the Territory of Wisconsin, by an act approved Jan. 2, 1838, among other things, established the towns
of Racine and Mount Pleasant, and defined their boundaries;
and by an act approved Feb. 7, 1842, created and established
the town of Caledonia, and defined its boundaries and those of
Racine and Mount Pleasant.
The legislature of the State of Wisconsin, by an act approved
Aug. 8, 1848, incorporated the city of Racine and defined its
boundaries.
By an act approved April 2, 1853, the town of Racine was
authorized and empowered to subscribe to the capital stock of

Oct. 1879.]

MOUNT PLEASANT V. BECKWITH.

the Racine, Janesville, and Mississippi Railroad Company, to
the amount of e50,0O0, and to pay therefor in the bonds of the
town, payable within twenty years, in the manner prescribed by
said act; and on or about Dec. 6, 1853, it subscribed for and
took 550,000 dollars of said stock, and issued its bonds accordingly.
In 1856, th3 legislature changed the boundaries of the towns of
Mount Pleasant and Racine, and, in 1857, changed and defined
those of the towns of Racine, Caledonia, and Mount Pleasant.
The board of supervisors of Racine County, Dec. 2, 1859,
changed the name of the town of Racine to Orwell.
The legislature, by an act approved March 80, 1860, vacated Orwell, and attached its territory to Caledonia and
Mount Pleasant, and, by an act approved March 17, 1871,
took from the latter a portion of such territory and added it
to the city of Racine.
On March 30, 1860, the value of property of individuals
within the jurisdiction of the town of Orwell was: .$696,024.05
..........
Real estate ....
87,925.00
........
Personal property ....
There came within the jurisdiction of the town of Caledonia
of this property $298,112.00
Real estate of the value of .......
Personal property of the value of . . . 15,167.00
And within the jurisdiction of Mount Pleasant:

-

. $397,912.05
Real estate of the value of . . ...
Personal property of the value of. .
. 22,757.00
In 1874, the value of property in the town of Caledonia,
which was on that part of its territory attached in 1860, was :Real estate .....
Personal property .....

..........
......

$326,583.41
84,893.00

And the value of property within Mount Pleasant on that
part of its territory attached in 1860 from Orwell was: Real estate .........
Personal property ..

.....
.........

...

377,610.00
35,470.00

MOUNT PLEASANT V. BECKWITH.

[Sup. Ct.

And within the limits of the city of Racine on tbat part of its
territory attached in 1871 Real estate ...
...........
Personal property .........

.. $125,528.00
...
9,385.00

Neither Mount Pleasant nor Caledonia by any corporate act
moved the legislature of Wisconsin for the passage of any
of the laws changing any of the territorial boundaries above
specified or referred to.
The defendants filed separate general demurrers to the bill,
which were overruled. They then answered.
There was evidence tending to show that the stock of the
Racine, Janesville, and Mississippi Railroad Company wai
worth from fifty to seventy-five per cent of its par value from
1853 to 1856, the date of the last transaction in stock proven,
and that no records of the town of Orwell ever came to the
possession of either the town of Mount Pleasant or the town
of Caledonia.
Upon hearing, the court below, April 18, 1876, entered the
following decree: "This cause came on to be heard on the twelfth day of May,
A.D. 1875, upon the pleadings and proofs reported by the master, and, having been argued by counsel, the court took the
same under advisement; and a further computation of the
amount due to this date upon the bonds described in the corn,plainant's bill and exhibited in the proofs having been directed and made and filed by the master, bearing date the
eighteenth day of April, 1876; and it satisfactorily appearing
to the court that the town of Racine, a municipal corporation
in the county of Racine, in said Eastern District of Wisconsin,
and then having within its boundaries and municipal jurisdiction the territorial area described in the complainant's bill, - on
or about the sixth day of December, 1853, made, executed, alid
delivered the bonds described in his bill upon the consideration, under the authority, and in the manner in said bill set
forth; that the said town of Racine continued in existence as
such municipal corporation, and by the same name and with
the changes in its territorial boundaries set forth in the complainant's bill, until on or about the second day of November,

Oct. 1879.]

MOUNT PLEASANT

v. BECKWITH.

1859, when the county board of supervisors of Racine County,
within which county said town of Racine was located, by a
resolution of said board, changed the name of said town from
' The Town of Racine' to 'The Town of Orwell,' and that
the township and municipal corporation theretofore known
as the town of Racine remained in existence in and by the
name-- of the town of Orwell, and with the same territorial
limits which the town of Racine had prior to such change of
name, until on or about the thirtieth day of March, 1860,
when the legislature of the State of Wisconsin, by an act
approved March 30, 1860, vacated and extinguished the corporation and body politic known as the town of Orwell, in
the county of Racine, and declared that said corporation
should thereafter have no existence as a body politic and
corporate. That in and by the same act of the legislature of
said State, the whole territory of said town of Orwell, formerly
known as the town of Racine. was attached to the defendants, the town of Mount Pleasant and the town of Caledonia,
in the proportions and by the boundary lines in said act named,
and that no provision was made in or by said act for the payment of the corporate debts of said township and body politic
theretofore known by the names of the town of Racine and
the town of Orwell. And it further appearing to the court
that, on or about the seventeenth day of March, 1871, by an
act of the legislature of Wisconsin, approved March 17, and
published March 18, 1871, a portion of the lands and territory which had been within the town of Orwell at the time
it was vacated, and which, by the act vacating Orwell, was
attached to Mount Pleasant, was detached from the town of
Mount Pleasant and attached to the defendant, the city of
Racine, and in and by said act it was provided that the defendant, the city of Racine, should assume and pay so much
of the municipal indebtedness of the former town of Racine, if
any, as the lands described in the addition to said city might
be or become legally chargeable with and liable to pay.
"And it further appearing that the complainant, at the time
of filing his said bill, was and now is the owner in good faith
and for value of the bonds in the bill mentioned, and upon
which there is due at this date the sum of $23,080.20.

MOUNT PLEASANT

v.

BECKWITH.

[Slip. Ct.

"Now, at the January Term of this court, to wit, on the
eighteenth day of April, 1876, the court being sufficiently
advised, -and being of the opinion that the municipal indebtedness of said town of Racine, otherwise known as the town
of Orwel, was not extinguished by said act of the legislature,
vacating and disorganizing said township, and distributing its
territory to other townships and municipal corporations, and
that an equitable liability for such indebtedness accrued against
the defendants, to which such territory was distributed, in the
proportion which the taxable property received by each and
the valuation thereof bore to the whole taxable property and
the whole debt of such vacated town.
"Now, therefore, it is considered, adjudged, and decreed
that the master's report of the amount due on the bonds set
forth in complainant's bill, and of the respective proportions
and valuations of the taxable property received by each of the
defendants from said town of Orwell, or which belonged to
said town immediately prior to the vacation thereof, be and
the same is adopted, ratified, and confirmed.
"And it is further adjudged and decreed that the complainant, Charles Beckwith, do have and recover of and from the
defendants, the town of MIount Pleasant, the town of Caledonia, and the city of Racine, the sum of $23,080.20, hereby
adjudged due to him from them for principal and interest
upon the bonds described in the complainant's bill, and which
sum it is adjudged the complainant have and recover from
the defendants severally, and that the defendants severally pay
the same in the proportions and respective amounts following,
to wit:"That the complainant, Charles Beckwith, have and recover
of and from the defendant, the town of Caledonia, the sum of
$9,281.50, and interest thereon from this date; and also the
further sum of $58.37, being one-third of complainant's costs
and disbursements of the action, as taxed, and hereby adjudged to the complainant.
"That the complainant, Charles Beckwith, have and recover of and from the defendant, the town of M
fount Pleasant,
the sum of $10,742.70, and interest from this date; and also
the further sum of $58.37, being one-third of complainant's
costs, as taxed.

Oct. 1879.]

MOUNT PLEASANT v. BECKWITm.

"And that the complainant, Charles Beckwith, have and
recover of and from the defendant, the city of Racine, the sum
of $3,056, and interest thereon from this date; and also the
further sum of $58.36, being one-third of complainant's costs,
taxed and adjudged to him as aforesaid.
"And it is further adjudged that the complainant have
execution against said defendants severally, to collect said
several sums decreed to be paid by each, in the manner provided by law."
From this decree the town of Mount Pleasant and the town
of Caledonia appealed to this court.
lr. L. S. Dixon and Mr.John T. Fishfor the appellants.
The court below erred,1. In holding the appellants liable to pay the debt of the
town of Racine (or Orwell), incurred in the purchase of stock
in a railroad company, or that such debt became that of the
appellants, to be enforced against them upon any ground or
in any form of proceeding. Hampshire v. Franklin, 16 Mass.
76 ; BarNkley v. Levee Commissioners,1 Woods, 254; Girardv.
Phlladelpia, 7 Wall. 1; Atkins v. Randolph, 81 Vt. 226;
Laramie County v. Albany County et al., 92 U. S. 307; Tou
of Depere v. Bellevue, 31 Wis. 120 ; Milwaukee v. Milwaukee,
12 id. 102; ffasbruck v. Milwaucee, 13 id. 37-43; Mills v.
ONae'ton, 29 id. 413; State ex rel. 1c(Curdy v. Tappan, Town
Clerk, id. 664; People v. Batchellor, 53 N. Y. 128; Horton v.
Town of Thompson, 71 id. 513; People v. Mayor, 51 Ill. 17
St. Louis v. Russell, 9 Mo. 503; 1 Dillon, Municipal Corporations, c. 4, sect. 43; Cooley, Const. Lim., marginal p. 231
(4th ed. 284).
2. In holding that the property of individuals within the
jurisdiction of the town of Racine (or Orwell) was the primary
fund upon which the complainant had the right to rely for the
payment of his debt; that the transfer of such property to the
jurisdiction of the appellants transferred to them the liability
to pay the claims of creditors of that town, and that such liability was that of individual debtors and not that of trustees.
Barkley v. Levee Commissioners et al., 93 U. S. 258; Bees v.
City of Watertown, 19 Wall. 107; Heine v. The Levee Commis.
,ioner, id. 655.

MOUNT PLEASANT

v.

BECKWITH.

[Sup. Ct.

3. In holding that the power of taxation conferred upon the
town of Racine by act of 1853 was by the act of 1860 transferred to the appellants, to be exercised by them severally upon
all the taxable property within their jurisdiction. ffavemeyer
v. Iowa County, 3 Wall. 294; illumma v. The Potomac Conpany, 8 Pet. 281; Railroad Companry v. 31aine, 96 U. S. 499;
Railroad Company v. State of Georgia, 98 id. 359; illiller v.
The State, 15 Wall. 478; Attorney- General v. Railroad Companies, 35 Wis. 425 ; Barkley v. Levee Commissioners, 1 Woods,
254; s. c. 93 U. S. 258; Broughton v. Pensacola, id. 266;
Xilner's Administrators v. City of Pensacola, 2 Woods, 632;
Bees v. Watertown, supra; Bfeine v. The Levee Commissioners,
supra; 1 Dillon, Municipal Corporations, sect. 116, and cases
cited in note.
4. In holding that it had jurisdiction in equity, or that the
appellants were in equity and good conscience liable to pay the
complainant's claim against that town. Heine v. 17te Levee
Commissioners, supra.
Hr. William P. Lynde, contra.
MR. JUSTICE CLIrFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

Explicit authority from the legislature was given to the
supervisors of the town of Raeine to subscribe tor the stock of
the railroad company mentioned in the act conferring the
power, to an amount not exceeding 650,000, provided a majority of the legal voters of the municipality, at a meeting of the
town duly called and held for the purpose, shall vote in favor
of making the proposed subscription. Sess. Laws Wis. (1853)
p. 11.
Pursuant to that authority, the proper officers of the town,
on the 6th of December, 1853, subscribed for the capital stock
of the railroad company to the amount of $50,000, and issued
one hundred bonds of the corporation, each in the sum of $500,
in payment of the subscription for the stock, the bonds being
made payable in twenty years from date, with coupons attached
for annual interest at the rate of seven per cent. Twenty of
those bonds with their coupons are now held by the complainant, numbered from seventy to eighty-nine, inclusive, and of
which he became the lawful holder within one month subse-

Oct. 1879.]

MOUNT PLEASANT V. BECMWITH.

quent to their date, - all of which, as he alleges, remain wholly
unpaid, principal and interest.
Various facts and circumstances are alleged in the bill of
complaint of an equitable nature, and which the complainant
insists are of a character to show that he has no remedy at law,
and which tend strongly to show that he is entitled to relief in
equity. Appended to those several allegations is the prayer of
the complainant, that the three respondents may answer the
matters charged, and that the court will ascertain the respective
liabilities of the respondents to the complainant, and decree the
amount due to him from each of the respondent municipalities,
and for general relief.
Service was made, and the respective respondents appeared
and separately demurred to the bill of complaint. Hearing
was had, and the court overruled the several demurrers dnd
directed that the respondents should answer the matters charged
in the bill of complaint by a given day. Separate answers
were accordingly filed by the respective respondents, no objection being made that they were not filed in time.
Sufficient appears to show that on the 2d of January, 1838,
the town of Racine and the town of Mount Pleasant were by
the same act created municipal corporations, with boundaries
as set forth in the bill 6f complaint. Private Laws Wis.
(1888) 168.
Four years later, the town of Caledonia was incorporated,
her territory being taken from the two towns before mentioned,
without any provision being made that the new town should
bear any portion of the indebtedness of either of the old towns.
Id. (1842) 10.
Both parties concur in these propositions, and it appears that
the city of Racine, which is a distinct municipality from the
town by the same name, was incorporated by the act of the 8th
of August, 1848, with boundaries as correctly set forth'in the
transcript. Id. (1848) 80.
Subsequent changes, if any, made in the boundaries of these
municipalities, not herein made the subject of comment, are
regarded as immaterial in the present investigation.
Additional territory was subsequently taken from the town
of Racine and was annexed to the city of Racine, and by a still

MOUNT PLEASANT v. BECKWITH.

[Sup. C&

later act another fraction of her territory was annexed to the
town of Mount Pleasant, neither act containing any regulations
as to existing indebtedness. Id. (1856) 148-416.
Prior to that, to wit, on the 6th of March in the same year,
the legislature of the State, by an act of that date, annexed a
ffiuch larger tract, taken from the towns of Racine and Alount
Pleasant, to the city of Racine, as described in the record; but
the Supreme Court of the State decided that a certain feature
of the act was unconstitutional and void. Slauson v. The City
of Bacine, 13 Wis. 398.
In consequence of that decision, the towns from which the
territory annexed was taken continued to exercise jurisdiction
over it for the period of fifteen years longer, until a portion of
the same territory then constituting A part of the town of
Mount Pleasant was again annexed to the city of Racine, on
the condition that the city "shall assume and pay so much of
the municipal indebtedness of the town, as the lands described
in the first section of that act may be or become legally
chargeable with and liable to pay." Private Laws Wis. (1871)
723.
Throughout these several changes, except the last, the annexation in every instance was made without any regulation that
the town to which the territory was annexed should pay any
portion of the indebtedness of the town from which the territory annexed was taken. Still not satisfied, the legislature, by
the act of the 28d of February, 1857, rearranged the boundaries of each of the three towns, as therein is fully set forth
and described. Id. (1857) 103.
Two years later, the county supervisors changed the name of
the town of Racine to Orwell; but the prior name will be used
throughout in this opinion, as less likely to produce confusion
in the statement of facts. From the time the legislature rearranged the boundaries of the three towns they remained
without alteration until the legislature, March 30, 1860, by a
public act, vacated and extinguished the corporation and body
politic known as the -town of Racine, then called Orwell, and
enacted that thereafter it should have no existence as a body
politic and corporate. Sess. Laws Wis. (1860) p. 218.
Sect. 2 of the act also provided that all that part of the terri-

Oct. 1879.]

MOUNT PLEASANT v. BECKWITH.

tory of the town lying north of the described line should be
annexed to and hereafter form a part of the town of Caledonia,
and that all that part of the territory lying south of that line
should become and continue to be a part of Mount Pleasant.
Each of the respondent towns refer in their answer to the
legislation of the State in respect to their incorporation and
boundaries, which need not be reproduced, as they are accurately
set forth in the preceding statement.
Two of the respondents, to wit, the town of Mount Pleasant
and the town of Caledonia, deny in their answers that any
statute of the State has ever been passed which would authorize
the municipal authorities of those towns to levy and collect a
tax to pay either the principal or interest of the bonds described
in the bill of complaint, and allege that the corporate authorities of those towns have never assumed or undertaken any trust
or duty in the premises, or have ever, in any way, recognized
the acts of the town which issued the bonds or the validity of
the same. Nor does the answer of the other respondent, to
wit, the city of Racine, differ very materially from those filed
by the two towns first named, except that the pleader avers
that the city was only made liable for such portion of the indebtedness of the old town as is described in the act enlarging
the limits of the respondent city, and pleads as a separate defence that the complainant has an adequate remedy at law.
Replications were filed by the complainant, and the parties
entered into a stipulation that the proofs should be taken by
the master, and that they might be read and used at the final
hearing as the evidence in the case, subject to legal objection.
Proofs were accordingly taken by the master, and he reported
the depositions of the witnesses examined, 'with an agreed statement of facts. Arguments of counsel followed, and the Circuit
Court entered a decree in favor of the complainant against
each respondent.
Two of the towns, to wit, Mount Pleasant andi Caledonia,
appealed to this court, and assign for error the following causes:
1. That the Circuit Court erred in holding that the appellants
are liable to pay the debt of the town of Racine incurred in
the purchase of stock in the aforesaid railroad company, or
that the debt of that town became the debt of the appel-

MOUNT PLEASANT v. BECKWITH.

[Sup. Ct.

lants, to be enforced against them in any form of proceeding.
2. That the Circuit Court erred in holding that the property of
the individuals within the jurisdiction of that town constituted
the primary fund to which the complainant had the right to
look for the payment of his debt, and that the transfer of their
property to the jurisdiction of the appellants rendered them
liable to pay the debts due to the creditors of the town whose
powers and jurisdiction terminated by the transfer. 3. That
the Circuit Court erred in holding that the power of taxation
previously vested in the town which issued the bonds in question
was, by the act annexing its territory to the appellant towns,
transferred to the appellants to be severally exercised by them
upon all the taxable property within their respective jurisdictions. 4. That the Circuit Court erred in holding that it
had jurisdiction in equity of the case, or that the appellants
are in equity and good conscience liable to pay the claim of the
complainant against the town whose territory was annexed to
the appellant corporations.
Counties, cities, and towns are municipal corporations created by the authority of the legislature, and they derive all
their powers from the source of their creation, except where
the Constitution of the State otherwise provides. They have
no inherent jurisdiction to make laws or to adopt governmental
regulations, nor can they exercise any other powers in that regard than such as are expressly or impliedly derived from their
charters or other statutes of the State.
Corporations of the kind are composed of all the inhabitants
of the territory included within the political organization, each
individual being entitled to participate in its proceedings; but
the powers of the organization may be modified or taken away
at the mere will of the legislature, according to its own views
of public convenience, and without any necessity for the consent of those composing the body politic. Corporate rights
and privileges are usually possessed by such municipalities;
and it is equally true that they are subject to certain legal
obligations and duties, which may be increased or diminished
at the pleasure of the legislature, from which all their powers
are derived.
Institutions of the kind, whether called cities, towns, or

Oct. 1879.]

MOUNT PLEASANT v. BECKWITH.

counties, are the auxiliaries bf the State in the important
business of municipal rule; but they cannot have the least
pretension to sustain their privileges or their existence upon
any thing like a contract between themselves and the legislature of the State, because there is not and cannot be any reciprocity of stipulation between the parties, and for the further
reason that their objects and duties are utterly incompatible
with every thing partaking of the nature of compact.
Instead of that, the constant practice is to divide large municipalities and to consolidate small ones, or set off portions of
territory from one and annex it to another, to meet the wishes
of the residents or to promote the public interests as understood by the legislature, - it being everywhere understood that
the legislature possesses the power to make such alterations
and to apportion the common property and burdens as to them
may seem just and equitable.
Alterations of the kind are often required to promote the
public interests or the convenience and necessities of the inhabitants; and the public history shows that it has been the constant usage in the States to enlarge or diminish the power of
towns, to divide their territory by set-off and annexation, and
to make new towns whenever the legislature deems it just and
proper that such a change should be made. Old towns may be
divided and new ones incorporated out of parts of the territory
of those previously organized; and in enacting such regulations
the legislature may apportion the common property and the
common burdens, and may, as between the parties in interest,
settle all the terms and conditions of the division of their territory, or the alteration of the boundaries, as fixed by any
prior law.
State legislation may regulate the subject; but if the legislature omits to do so, the presumption, as between the parties,
is that they did not consider that any regulation was necessary.
Where none is made, in case of division the old corporation
owns all the public property within her new limits, and is
responsible for all the debts of the corporation contracted
before the act of separation was passed. Debts previously
contracted must be paid entirely by the old corporation, noi
has the new municipality any claim to any portion of the pub.

"MOUNT PLEASANT V. BECKWITH.

[Sup. Ct.

lic property, except what falls within her boundaries, and to
that the old corporation has no claim whatever. Laranie
County v. Albany County, 92 U. S. 307; Bri8tol v. New Chester,
3 N. H. 521.
Apply these principles to the admitted facts of the case, and
it is clear that every one of the described changes made in the
limits and boundaries of the respondent municipalities become
wholly immaterial in this investigation, except the last two, as
hereafter more fully explained.
Before the passage of those two acts, the claim of the complainant against the town of Racine was, beyond all question,
valid and collectible. Nobody controverts that proposition,
and it is clear that no defence to the action could have been
sustained for a moment. By the act of March 30, 1860, the
legislature of the State vacated and extinguished the corporation and body politic formerly known as Racine, then called
Orwell, and annexed the whole area of the territory included
in the municipality to the two adjacent towns of Mount Pleasant and Caledonia, in the proportions and by the boundary
lines described in the second section of the legislative act.
Had legislation stopped there, it is clear that the city of Racine
would not have been liable for any portion of the debt of the
extinguished municipal corporation; but it did not stop there,
as appears by what follows.
Prior to the passage of that act, the old town of Racine was
the sole obligor in the bonds held by the complainant; and
there certainly is nothing in the provisions of that act which
tends in the least degree to create any liability on the part of
any other municipality for the indebtedness of that town, except the towns of Mount Pleasant and Caledonia. Nothing
had previously occurred to create any liability on the part of
the city of Racine to pay any proportion of the debts of the
old town of Racine, which issued the bonds described in the
bill of complaint.
Until the passage of the act of the 17th of March, 1871,
the rights of all parties remained unchanged. By that act
a portion of the territory formerly belonging to the old town
of Racine was set off from the town of Mount Pleasant and
was annexed to the city of Racine. Appended to that act

Oct. 1879.]

3OUNT PLEASANT V. BEcKWITHr.

and a part of it, was the provision that the city to which the
described territory was annexed "shall assume and pay so
much of the indebtedness of the town of Racine as the lands
described in the first section of the act may be or become
legally chargeable with and liable to pay." Private Laws
Wis. (1871) 723.
Enough appears in that provision of direct legislation to
show that the city of Racine was thereby made liable for the
debts of the extinguished town of Racine in the proportion
therein described; and the clear ,nference from the provision
is that the town of Mount Pleasant, prior to the passage of
that act, was liable for the' debts of that old municipality in
proportion to the whole extent of the territory annexed to her
by the prior act which extinguished the old municipal corporation. None, it is presumed, will deny the liability of the city
of Racine for those debts in the proportion described in the
-act creating the lFability, and hence it is that the corporate
authorities of the city acquiesced in the decree of the Circuit
Court without appeal.
Parties who do not appeal from the final decree of the Circuit Court cannot be heard in opposition to the same when the
case is regularly brought here by other proper parties. , They
may be heard in support of the decree and in opposition to
every assignment of error, but they cannot be heard to show
that the decree below was erroneous. The Stephen Horgan,
94 U. S. 599.
Concede that, and it follows that the only question open in
the case for examination is whether the other two respondent
municipal corporation's are liable to any extent for the debts
of the extinguished municipality, portions of whose territory
were transferred by the legislature into their respective jurisdictions. We say, liable to any extent, because the question
of amount was submitted to the master, and the record shows
that neither of the appellants excepted to the master's report.
Gordon v. Lewis, 2 Sum. 143; lcfffieken v. Perin, 18 How.
507. Nor do either of the assignments of error allege that the
master committed any error in that regard. Brocett v. Brocekett,
8 id. 691.
Viewed in that light, as the case should be, it is clear that

MOUNT PLEASANT V. BECKWITH.

[Sup. at.

if the appellants are liable at all they are liable for the respective amounts specified in the decree. Harding v. Handy, 11
Wheat. 103 ; Story v. Livingston, 13 Pet. 359.
Where one town is by a legislative act merged in two others,
it would doubtless be competent for the legislature to regulate the rights, duties, and obligations of the two towns whose
limit s are thus enlarged; but if that is not done, that it must
follow that the two towns succeed to all the public property
and immunities of the extinguished municipality. 3Morgan v.
Beloit, City and Town, 7 Wall. 613, 617.
It is not the case where the legislature creates a new town
out of a part of the territory of an old one, without making
provision for the payment of the debts antecedently contracted,
as in that case it is settled lftw that- tbe old corporation retains
all the public property not included within the limits of the
new municipality, and is liable for all the debts contracted by
her before the act of separation was passed. Town of .Depere
and Others v. Town of Bellevue and Others, 31 Wis. 120, 125.
Instead of that, it is the case where the charter of one corporation is vacated and rendered null, the whole of its territory
being annexed to two others. In such a case, if no legislative
arrangements are made, the effect of the annulment and annexation will be that the two enlarged corporations will be
entitled to all the public property and immunities of the one
that ceases to exist, and that they will become liable for all the
legal debts contracted by her prior to the time when the annexation is carried into operation.
Speaking to the same point, the Supreme Court of Missouri
held that where one corporation goes entirely out of existence
by being annexed to or merged in another, if no arrangements
are made respecting the property and liabilities of the corporatior that ceases to exist, the subsisting corporation will be
entitled to all the property anci be answerable for all ths
liabilities. Thomnpson, v. Abbott, 61 Mo. 176, 177.
Grant that, and it follows that when the corp-ration first
named ceases to exist there is then no power left to control in
its behalf any of its funds, or to pay off any of its indebtedness.
Its property passes into the hands of its successor, and when
the benefits are taken the burdens are assumed, the rule being

Oct. 1879.]

MOUNT PLEASANT V. BECKWITH.

that the successor who takes the benefits must take the same
on onere, and that the successor town is thereby estopped to
deny that she is liable to respond for the attendant burdens.
Swain v. Searnens, 9 Wall. 254, 274; Pickardv. Sears, 6 Ad.
& Ell. 474.
Powers of a deined character are usually granted to a municipal corporation, but that does not prevent the legislature
from exercising unlimited control over their charters. It still
has authority to amend their charters, enlarge or diminish their
powers, extend or limit their boundaries, consolidate two or
more into one, overrule their legislative action whenever it is
deemed unwise, impolitic, or unjust, and even abolish them
altogether, in the legislative discretion, and substitute in their
place those which are different. Cooley, Const. Lim. (4th ed.)
232.
Municipal corporations, says Mr. Justice Field, so far as they
are invested with subordinate legislative powers for local purposes, are mere instrumentalities of the State for the convenient
administration of their affairs; but when autholized to take
stock in a railroad company, and issue their obligations in
payment of the stock, they are to that extent to be deemed
private corporations, and their obligations are secured by all
the guaranties which protect the engagements of private individuals. Broughton v. Pensacola,93 U. S. 266, 269.
Modifications of their boundaries may be made, or their
names may be changed, or one may be merged in another, or
it may be divided and the moities of their territory.may be
annexed to others; but in all these cases, if the extinguished
municipality owes outstanding debts, it will be presumed in
every such case that the legislature intended that the liabilities
as well as the rights of property of the corporation which
thereby ceases to exist shall accompany the territory and
property into the jurisdiction to which the territory is annexed.
1olh ,ster v. Seaber, 3 Burr. 1866.
Neither argument nor authority is necessary to prove that a
State legislature cannot pass a valid law impairing the obligations of a contract, as that general proposition is universally
admitted. Contracts under the Constitution are as sacred as
the Constitution that protects them from infraction, and yet
VOL. X.

34

MOUNT PLEASANT v. BECKWITH.

[Sup. or.

the defence in this case, if sustained, will establish the proposition that the effect of State legislation may be such as to
deprive a party of all means of sustaining an action of any
kind for their enforcement. Cases, doubtless, may arise when
the party cannot collect what is due under the contract; but
he ought always to be able by some proper action to reduce
his contract to judgment.
Suppose it be admitted that the act of the State legislature
annulling the charter of the municipality indebted to the complainant, without making any provision for the payment of outstanding indebtedness, was unconstitutional and void, still it
must be admitted that the very act which annulled that charter
annexed all the territory and property of the municipality to
the two appellant towns, and that they acquired with that the
same power of taxation over the esidents and their estates
that they previously possessed over the estates of the inhabitants resident within their limits before their boundaries were
enlarged.
Extinguished municipal corporations neither own property,
nor have they any power to levy taxes to pay debts. Whatever power the extinguished municipality had to levy taxes
vhen the act passed annulling her charter termihated, and
from the moment the annexation of her territory was made to
the appellant towns, the power to tax the property transferred,
and the inhabitants residing on it, became vested in the proper
authorities of the towns to which the territory and jurisdiction
were by that act transferred; from which it follows that for all
practical purposes the complainant was left without judicial
remedy to enforce the collection of the bonds or to recover
judgment for the amounts they represent.
When the appellant towns accepted the annexation, their
authorities knew, or ought to have known, that the extinguished
municipality owed debts, and that the act effecting the annexation made no provision for their payment. They had no
right to assume that the annulment of the charter of the old
town would have the effe'dt to discharge its indebtedness, or to'
impair the obligation of the contract held by its creditors to
,enforce the same against those holding the territory and juris-diction by the authority from the legislature and the public

Oct. 1879.]

MOUNT PLEASANT V. BECKWITH.

property and the power of taxation previously held and enjoyed by the extinguished municipality.
Express provision was made by the act annulling the charter
of the debtor municipality for annexing its territory to the
appellant towns; and, when the annexation became complete,
the. power of taxation previously vested in the inhabitants of
the annexed territory as a separate municipality ceased to exist, whether to pay debts or for any other purpose, - the reason being that the power, so far as respected its future exercise,
was transferred with the territory and the jurisdiction over its
inhabitants to the appellant towns, as enlarged by the annexed
territory; from which it follows, unless it be held that the
extinguishment of the debtor municipality discharged its debts
without payment, which the Constitution forbids, that the
appellant towns assumed each a proportionate share of the outstanding obligations of the debtor town when they acquired
the territory, public property, and municipal jurisdiction over
every thing belonging to the extinguished municipality.
Corporations of a municipal character, such as towns, are
usually organized in this country by special acts or pursuant to
some general State law; and it is clear that their powers and
duties differ in some important particulars from the towns
which existed in the parent country before the Revolution,
where they were created by special charters from the crown,
and acquired many of their privileges by prescription, without
any aid from Parliament. Corporate franchises of the kind
granted during that period partook much more largely of the
nature of private corporations than do the municipalities created in this country, and known as towns, citie%. and counties.
Power exists here in the legislature, not only to fix the boundaries of such a municipality when incorporated, but to enlarge
or diminish the same subsequently, without the consent of the
residents, by annexation or set-off, unless restrained by the
Constitution, even against the remonstrance of every property
holder and voter within the limits of the original municipality.
Property set off or annexed may be benefited or burdened by
the change, and the liability of the residents to taxation may
be increased or diminished; but the question, in every case, is
entirely within the control of the legislature, and, if no pro-

MOUNT PLEASANT V. BECKWITH.

[Sup. Ct.

vision is made, every one must submit to the will of the State,
as expressed through the legislative department. Inconvenience will be suffered by some, while others will be greatly
benefited in that regard by the change. Nor is it any objection to the exercise of the power that the property annexed or
set off will be subjected to increased taxation, or that the town
from which it is taken or to which it is annexed will be benefited or prejudiced, unless the Constitution prohibits the change,
since it is a matter, in the absence of constitutional restriction, which belongs wholly to the legislature to determine.
Courts everywhere in this country hold that, in the division
of towns, the legislature may apportion the burdens between
the two, and may determine the proportion to be borne by
each. Sill v. The Village of Corning, 15 N. Y. 297; Mayor v.
State, ex rel. of the Board of Police of Birltimore, 15 Md. 376;
City of Olney v. Harvey, 50 Ill. 453; Borough of Dunmore's
Appeal, 52 Pa. St. 374.
Public property and the subordinate rights of a municipal
corporation are within the control of the legislature ; and it is
held to be settled law that, where two separate towns are created out of one, each, in the absence of any statutory regulation, is entitled to hold in severalty the public property of the
old corporation which falls within its limits. BYorth Hempsted v. Hempsted, 2 Wend. (N. Y.) 109; The Har(ford Bridge
Company v. East Hartford,16 Conn. 149, 171.
Extensive powers in that regard are doubtless possessed by
the legislature; but the Constitution provides that no State
shall pass any "law impairing the obligation of contracts,"
from which it follows that the legislature, in the exercise of any
such power, cannot pass any valid law impairing the right of
existing creditors of the old municipality. 1 Dillon, Municipal
Corp. (2d ed.),, sect. 41; Tan Hoffman v. City of Quincy, 4 Wall.
535, 554; Lee County v. Bogers, 7 id. 181, 184; Butz v. City
of iMuseatine, 8 id. 575, 583; Turman v. Nichol, id. 44, 62.
Where a municipal corporation has the power to contract a
debt, it has, says Dixon, C. J., by necessary implication, authority to resort to the usual mode of raising money to pay it,
which undoubtedly is taxation. State, ex rel. Hasbrouck, v. The
City of Milwaukee, 25 Wis. 122, 133.

Oct. 1879.]

MOUNT PLEASANT V. BECKWITH.

Whenever the charter of a city, at the time of the issue of
bonds, made it the duty of the city authorities to levy and collect the amount, when reduced to judgment, like other city
charges, the same court held that a subsequent act of the legislature prohibiting the city from levying such a tax would be
repugnant to the Constitution. Soutter v. The City of 1i1fadison,
15 id. 80.
State control over the division of the territory of the State
into cities, towns, and districts, unless restricted by some constitutional limitation, is supreiiie, but the same court admits
that it cannot be exercised to annul another regulation of the
Constitution. Chandler v. Boston, 112 Mass. 200; 6 Gush.
(Mass.) 580.
Cities or towns, whenever they engage in transactions not
public in their nature, act under the same pecuniary responsibility as individuals, and are as much bound by their engagements as are private persons, nor is it in the power of the
legislature to authorize them to violate their contracts. The
Saving 7und Society v. The City of Philadelphia,31
e tVctr
Pa. St. 175, 185.
Text-writers concede almost unlimited power to the State
legislatures in respect to the division of towns and the alteration of their boundaries, but they all agree that in the exercise
of these powers they cannot defeat the rights of creditors nor
impair the obligation of a valid contract. 1 Dillon, Municipal
Corp., sect. 128; Blanehardv. Bissell, 11 Ohio St. 96; Lansing
v. County Treasurer,I Dill. 5"22, '528.
Concessions of power to municipal corporations are of high
importance; but they are not contracts, and consequently are
subject to legislative control without limitation, unless the legiblature oversteps the limits of the Constitution. Layton v.
Xez, Orleans, 12 La. Ann. 515.
Bonds having been issued and used by a city for purchasing
land for a park, which was pledged for the payment of the
bonds, held, that a subsequent act of the legislature authorizing a sale of a portion of the park, free of all liens existing by
virtue of the original act, was in violation of the Federal Constitution, as impairing the obligation of contracts. Brooklyn
Pa,'le Con. v. Armstrony, 45 N. Y. 234, 247.

MOUNT PLEASANT

v.

BECKWITH.

[Sup. Ct.

Laws passed by a State impairing the obligation of a contract
are void, and if a State cannot pass such a law, it follows that
no agency can do so which acts under the State with delegated
authority. Cooley, Const. Lim. (4th ed.) 241; Angell & Ames
on Corp. (9th ed.), sects. 382, 388.
:Municipal debts cannot be paid by an act of the legislature
annulling the charter of the municipality, and, if not, then the
creditors of such a political division must have some remedy
after the annulment takes place. Without officers, or the
power of electing such agents, a municipal corporation, if it
can be so called, would be an entity very difficult to be subjected to judicial process or to legal responsibility; but when
the entity itself is extinguished, and the inhabitants with its
territory and other property are transferred to other municipalities, the suggestion that creditors may pursue their remedy
against the original contracting party is little' less than a
mockery. Public property, with the inhabitants and their
estates, and the power of taxation, having been transferred by
the authority of the legislature to the appellants, the principles
of equity and good conscience require that inasmuch as they
are, and have been for nearly twenty years, in the enjoyment
of the benefits resulting from the annexation, they shall in
due proportions also bear the burdens. New Orlean8 v. Clark,
95 U. S. 644, 654.
Equitable rules of decision are sufficiently comprehensive in
their reach to do justice between parties litigant, and to overcome every difficulty which can be suggested in this case.
States are divided and subdivided into such municipalities,
called counties, cities, towns, and school districts, and the
legislature of every State is required every year to pass laws
modifying their charters and enlarging or diminishing their
boundaries. Nor are the questions presented in this case eithtr
new in pripciple or difficult of application. New forms are
given to such charters in every day's experience, when the
limits of an old corporation are changed by annexation of new
territory, or portions of the territory of the old municipality
are set off and annexed to another town. Both corporations
in such a case continue, though it may be that the charters
are much changed, and that the inhabitants of the territory

Ot. 1879.]

MOUNT PLEASANT Vi.BECKWITH.

annexed or set off fall under different officers and new and very
diverse regulations. Beckwith v. C1it of Bacine, 7 Biss. 142,
149.
Pecuniary burdens may be increased or diminished by the
change; but, in the absence of express provisions regulating
the subject, it will be presumed in every case where both municipalities are continued, that the outstanding liabilities of the
same remaia unaffected by such legislation. Unlike that in
this case, the charter of the old town was vacated and annulled,
from which it follows that 'the same principles of justice
require that the appellant towns, to which the territory, property, and inhabitants of the annulled municipality were annexed, should become liable for its outstanding indebtedness.
.Decree affirmed.
Mr. JUSTICE MILLER, with whom concurred MR. JusTIoE
FIELD and MR. JUSTioE BRADLEY, dissenting.
I am of opinion that it requires legislation to make a legal
obligation against the new town, and make the apportionment
of the debt; and I dissent on that ground from the judgment
and opinion of the court in this case.
Norr.-31owtd Pkasant v. Corndl, on appeal from the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Wisconsin, was argued at the same
time and by the same counsel as was the preceding case.
M. JUSTICE CLIrFORD,.in delivering the opinion of the court, remarked, that
it embraced -ubstantially the same facts as that case, and must be decided in the
kanie Way.
Dezree affrmed

