UNITED STATES

UNITED STATES

v. BOWEN.

[Sup. ot

v. BowEN.

1. The Revised Statutes of the United States must be accepted as the law on the
subjects which they embrace as it existed on the first day of December,
1873. When their meaning is plain, the court cannot recur to the original
statutes to see if errors were committed in revising them, but it may do
so when necessary to construe doubtful language used in the revision.
2. Sect. 4820 of the Revised Statutes admits of no other reasonable construction
than that only the invalid pensioners who had not contributed to the funds
of the Soldiers' Home were bound to surrender to it their pensions while
receiving its benefits. There is no occasion, therefore, to look at the preexisting law on the subject.

from the Court of Claims.
Charles Bowen filed in the court below his petition alleging
that the United States unlawfully withheld from him $270,
being the amount due him from Sept. 13, 1876, when he was
admitted as an inmate of the "Soldiers' Home," to Dec. 4,
1877, upon his pension theretofore granted, by reason of a
wound received by him in the military service of the United
States.
That court found the following facts:
1. The claimant was a private in Company B, Third Regiment United States Infantry, from the 9th of March, 1861, to
the 9th of March, 1864, and during that time, under the provisions of sect. 7 of the act of March 3, 1859 (11 Stat. 434),
there was deducted from his pay ihe sum of $4.57.
2. An invalid pension was granted to him March 13, 1865,
at $8 per month, commencing March 9, 1864, by certificate
No. 39,050; the monthly rate of such pension was increased
from $8 to 815, Jan. 21, 1867, to commerce June 6, 1866;
and from $15 to $18, July 8, 1876, to commence June 4, 1872.
3. On the 13th of September, 1876, he was admitted as an
inmate of the Soldiers' Home, and his pension from that date
to the 4th of December, 1877, to wit, the sum of $264.60, was
regularly paid to the treasurer of that institution.
The court found as a conclusion of law that the claimant
should recover the sum of $264.60. Judgment in his favor
having been rendered therefor, the United States appealed.
APPEAL

-

Oct. 1879.]

UNITED STATES

v.

BOWEN.

509 "

The fifth section of the act entitled "1An Act to found a
military asylum for the relief and support of invalid and disabled soldiers of the army of the United States," approved
March 3, 1851 (9 Stat. 595 > provides "that any pensioner on
account of wounds or disajiliLy incurred in the military service,
although he may not have contributed to the funds of the
institution, shall be entitled to all the benefits herein provided,
upon transferring his pension to said asylum for and during
the period that he may voluntarily continue to receive such
benefits."
The act of March 3, 1859, making appropriations for the
support of the army for the year ending June 30, 1860 (11
id. 431), changes the name of the institution to "Soldiers'
Home," and the sixth section declares that "all pensioners, on
account of wounds or disability incurred in the military service, shall transfer and surrender their pensions to the institution, for and during the time they may remain therein, and
voluntarily continue to receive its benefits."
Sect. 4820 of the Revised Statutes provides that "the fact
that one to whom a pension has been granted for wounds or
disability received in the military service, has not contributed
to the funds of the Soldiers' Home, shall not preclude him
from admission thereto; but all such pensioners shall surrender
their pensions to the Soldiers' Home during the time they
remain therein and voluntarily receive its benefits."
The Attorney-General for the United States.
The whole controversy arises from interpolating in the
Revised Statutes "such" between "all" and "pensioners,"
where the latter words occur in the sixth section of the act of
March 3, 1859; and its determination depends upon the answer to the inquiry, Did the revision of the statutes repeal the
law requiring an inmate of the Soldiers' Home, who had contributed twelve and a half cents per month during his service,
te transfer his pension to the institution, or did Congress merely
intend to incorporate in them the then existing law?
The appellee contends that "such" works so manifest a
change in the antecedent law, that the declared intent of the
revision, namely, to "revise and consolidate the statutes in
force on the 1st of December, 1873," is not to be iegarded,

UNITED STATES v. BowEN.

[Sup. Ct.

and that it is not of any importance what had been the settled
law by clear expressions in the statutes for fourteen previous
years. The appellant submits that these considerations, together with the otherwise rigid adherence in the chapter of the
Revised Statutes entitled the "Soldiers' Home," to the language, chronology, and provisions of the antecedent law, demonstrate that the revisers only attempted to collate, and that
Congress did not mean to change, the law as it stood at that
date.
Spencer, J., in Taylpr v. 1Delany, 2 Cai. (N. Y.) Cas. 149,
discussing the revision of 1801, lays down the following rule:
"Where the law antecedently to the revision was settled, either
by clear expressions in the statutes, or adjudications on them,
the mere change of phraseology shall not be deemed or construed a change of the law, unless such phraseology evidently
purports an intention in the legislature to work a change."
This rule was approved and adopted by Kent, himself one
of the revisers of 1801, in Yates'8 Case (4 Johns. (N. Y.) 317,
859); and it has received the indorsement of -all the courts
which have considered the question. Burnham v. Stevens, 33
N. H. 247; Ash v. Ash, 9 Ohio St. 383; Conger v. Barker, 11
id. 1; Croswell v. Crane, 7 Barb. (N. Y.) 191; Ennis v. Crump,
6 Tex. 84; Dominick v. Michael, 4 Sandf. (N. Y.) 374; Goodell v. Jackson, 20 Johns. (N. Y.) 722; Theriat v. Hart, 2 Hill
(N. Y.); 380 ; Hoffman v. Delihanty, 13 Abb. (N. Y.) Pr. 388;
In re Brown, 21 Wend. (N. Y.) 316; Allen v. Ramsey, 6 Mete.
(Mass.) 635.
It was competent, therefore, for the appellant to examine the
prior statutes, to determine whether a radical change in them was
intended by Congress by the insertion of the word in question.
31r. .fat. H. Carpenter,contra.
The chapter of the Revised Statutes, entitled "The Soldiers'
Home," in which sect. 4820 is found, was evidently intended
as the only provision to regulate and govern that institution,
and to repeal all existing laws relating thereto. Covering their
whole subject, and embracing all that was intended to be preserved of them, it becomes a complete law in itself, providing
every thing necessary to the perfect management and discipline of the "Soldiers' Home." Such is the natural inference

Oct. 1879.]

UNITED STATES v. BowEN.

from its general character and particular provisions, and it
leaves no room for doubt as to the intention of its framers. It
therefore repeals all former statutes on the same subject. Ellis
v. rage, I Pick. (Mass.) 45; Smith, Comm. on Stat. Constr.,
sects. 785, 786; Boucicault v. Hart, 13 Blatch. 52; Holmes v.
WIltz, 11 La. Ann. 446; United States v. Hammond, 2 Woods,
203; Jones v. Smart, 1 Tenn. 44.

That section is expressed in clear, concise, and intelligible
language, leaving nothing for interpretation or conjecture, and
the construction for which the appellee contends has been uniformly given to it by the Commissioner of Pensions, who is
charged with the duty of executing its provisions. His interpietation, to use the language of the court in United States
v. Moore (95 U. S. 760), is "entitled to the most Tespeetful
consideration, and ought not to be overruled without the most
cogent reasons."
It is unnecessary, however, to contend that the prior statutes
are repealed by implication, for sect. 5596 repeals them in
express terms. It declares, that "all acts of Congress passed
prior to said first day of December, one thousand eight hundred and seventy-three, any portion of which is embraced in
any section of said revision, are hereby repealed, and the sections applicable thereto shall be in force in lieu thereof."
Mn.4rsSTICE MrLLER delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a judgment of the Court of Claims
ia favor of appellee for $264.60, for pension money withheld
by the government.
The action of the government officers in that respect was
founded on their opinion that Bowen, who was cared for in
the Soldiers' Home, belonged to the class who, by sect. 4820
of the revision, surrendered their pensions while inmates of
the home. That section enacts that "the fact that one to
whom a pension has been granted for wounds or disability
received in the military service has not contributed to the
funds of the Soldiers' Home, shall not preclude him from
admission thereto. But all such pensioners shall surrender
their pensions to the Soldiers' Home during the time they
remain there and voluntarily receive its benefits."

UNITED STATES V. BOWEN.

[Sup. ot.

Bowen was the recipient of an invalid pension but he had
contributed to the fuds of the Soldiers' Home, and the single
question in the case is whether that fact withdraws him from
the clause which requires pensioners to surrender their pensions to the home while inmates of it.
If the qualifying word such is restricted to pensioners described in the sentence which immediately precedes it, then
Bowen does not belong to that class, and is not bound to surrender his pension. There is no other class of pensioners
described in that section to whom the word 8uch can refer than
those who have not contributed to the funds of the home, and
Bowen does not belong to that class. The history of the
institution affords good reason for that interpretation. The
Soldiers' Home was bought and built, and is supported now
very largely, by money deducted from the monthly pay of the
soldiers of the regular army. But there is a class of persons
who have received wounds in the military service, or incurred
ill health while in such service, from whose pay no deduction
was made as a contribution to the home, who received pensions as invalids, and, by virtue of this section, are entitled to
be cared for at that place. There is *amanifest propriety in
a rule which requires of this class that, when supported ouc of
the fund to which they did not contribute, their pensions
should go to increase that fund; while those who have been
giving of their monthly pay for years should receive its
benefits when they come to need them, without giving also
the pension which is the bounty of a grateful government.
There is no antecedent use of the word "' pensioners " in the
chapter of which sect. 4820 is a part, and which embraces
the legislation of Congress concerning the Soldiers' Home,
to which the word such can refer, but the immediately preceding sentence in the same section. If the construction
claimed by counsel for the government be correct, that word
is useless, for it would express the idea with precision by
reading, "But all pensioners shall surrender their pensions to
the Soldiers' Home during the time they remain therein and
voluntarily receive its benefits." The question, therefore, is
whether we shall read the section "all pensioners" or "all such
pensioners."

Oct. 1879.]

UNrrED STATES v. BowEN.

The word, however, as there used, has an appropriate reference to the class of pensioners who have not contributed to
the funds of the institution, and no sound canon of construction will authorize us to disregard it, when to do so changes
very materially the meaning of the section.
It is urged in opposition to this view that as the law stood
prior to the revision, as shown by the act of March 3, 1859
(11 Stat. 431), all invalid pensioners who accepted the benefit of the home were bound to surrender to its use their pensions while there; and it must be conceded that such was
the law.
But, as the revision embraces that act as well as all others
on the subject, it is, by the express language of the repealing
clause, sect. 5596, no longer in force. Counsel for government, admitting that it is no longer in force, independently of
the section of the revision which we are called on to construe,
insist that a resort may be had to the law which was the subject of revision, to interpret any thing left in doubt by the language of the revisers.
This principle is undoubtedly sound; and, where there is a
substantial doubt as to the meaning of the language used in
the revision, the old law is a valuable source of information.
The Revised Statutes must be treated as the legislative declaration of the statute law on the subjects which they embrace
on the first day of December, 1873. When the meaning is
plain, the courts cannot look to the statutes which have been
revised to see if Congress erred in that revision, but may
do so when necessary to construe doubtful language used in
expressing the meaning of Congress. If, then, in the case
before us, the language of sect. 4820 was fairly susceptible
of the construction claimed by the government, as well as of
the opposite one, the argument from the proviion of the statute as it stood before the revision would be conclusive. But,
for the reasons already given, we are of opinion that the reasonable force of the language used in that section, taken in
connection with the whole of the chapter devoted to that subject, and the accepted canons of interpretation, leave room
for no other construction than that only invalid pensioners
who had not contributed to the funds of the Soldiers' Home
VOL. X.

33

MOUNT PLEASANT v. BEcKWITH.

[Sup.

t

were bound to purchase its benefits by surrendering to it their
pensions.
As the Court of Claims acted on this construction, its judgment is
Affirmed.

MOUNT PLEASANT v. BECKWITH.
1. Where no constitutional restriction is imposed, the corporate existence and
powers of counties, cities, and towns are subject to the legislative control of
the State creating them.
2. Where a municipal corporation is legislated out of existence and its territory
annexed to other corporations, the latter, unless the legislature otherwise
provides, become entitled to all its property and immunities, and severally
liable for a proportionate share of all its then subsisting legal debts, and
vested with its power to raise revenue wherewith to pay them by levying
taxes upon the property transferred and the persons residing thereon.
8. The remedy of the creditors of the extinguished corporation is in equity
against the corporations succeeding to its property and powers.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Eastern District of Wisconsin.
In 1873, Charles Beckwith filed his bill in the court below,
against the town of Mount Pleasant, the town'of Caledonia,
and the city of Racine, in Racine County, Wisconsin, to enforce the payment of certain bonds issued in the year 1853, by
the town of Racine in said county, in payment of stock for
which it subscribed in the Racine, Janesville, and Mississippi
Railroad Company.
The legislature of the Territory of Wisconsin, by an act approved Jan. 2, 1838, among other things, established the towns
of Racine and Mount Pleasant, and defined their boundaries;
and by an act approved Feb. 7, 1842, created and established
the town of Caledonia, and defined its boundaries and those of
Racine and Mount Pleasant.
The legislature of the State of Wisconsin, by an act approved
Aug. 8, 1848, incorporated the city of Racine and defined its
boundaries.
By an act approved April 2, 1853, the town of Racine was
authorized and empowered to subscribe to the capital stock of

