Oct. 1879.]

MANNING

V. INSURANCE

C0.

bauik, under such circumstances, to shift the burden of the loss
from itself to the shoulders of an innocent depositor.
It does not appear by the record that any evidence offered
by the bank, touching the general usage, was excluded, and
we think what was said by the court in that connection, as
well as with respect to the special usage of the institution, was
unexceptionable, and was quite as favorable to the bank as it
had a right to claim.
If either side had ground for complaint, it was not the plaintiff in error.
Judgment affirmed.

MIANNING v. INSURANO

CoMPANY.

1. A contract between A. and an insurance company stipulated that for his selvices as its agent the company would pay him twenty per cent on the ordinary premiums upon all policies for the first year, and "seven and one-half
per cent for the second and subsequent years of assurance," said allowance
to continue for twenty-five-years, should the policies remain so long in force.
It was also stipulated that he should appolqt sub-agents, that all moneys
should be promptly remitted to the company ort or before the fifteenth day
of each month, and that his "commissions should accrue only as the premiums were paid to the company." The company having discharged him
from its service, June 2, 1871, brought this suit to recover its moneys in
his hands, and introduced evidence that he was indebted to it in a certain
areount, and had been properly removed. Among other defences, he offered
to show that a set-off existed in his favor for commissions collected and
received by the company from May 1, 1871, to Dec. 23, 1871, and interest
thereon. After having made proof of notice to the company to produce
the book3 and papers necessary to show the amount of renewal premiums
received by it from policies obtained through his agency during the period
mentioned, and the books and papers not being produced, he testified that
on June 2,1871, there were policies in force upon which the annual premiuws would be $7,000, as it appeared in his accounts with his subageneics, that his annual cohimissions upon the premiums would amount
to $8,11.14, and that computing the amount which would be due to him,
accruing between that date and Dee. 23, 1871, they amounted to about
$4,75497. No direct proof was given that any of the policies in force on
Iay 1, 1871, or on June 2, 1871, had been renewed or extended, or that
any of the annual premiums becoming payable after those dates had been
paid to the company or received by it. The court instructed the jury, in
effvct, that if A. had been removed from his agency without just cause,
they might find from this evidence what amount the company should have

MANNING

V. INSURANCE

CO.

[Sup. Ct.

received of renewal premiums, but if they found that he had been justifiably removed, there was no proof for their consideration of the amount
of renewal premiums received or collected, in the hands of the company,
upon which he was enjitled to commissions. Held, 1. That A. had no just
ground of exception to the charge. 2. That the burden wss on him to
prove that the premiums had been actuallypaid to the company.
2. It is error to submit to the jury to find a fact of which there is no competent
evidence.
S. The only presumptions of fact which the law recognizes are immediate inferences from the facts proved.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
ir. WVilliani Henry Arnoux for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. -Tames C. Carter, contra.
MR. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.

The John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company, on the
second day of December, 1868, employed Manning and one Hall
as its general agents for New York and other States, to secure
applications for life insurance, and to collect and pay over premiums on insurances effected. It was stipulated that the agreement should continue in force three years from Sept. 1, 1867, and
that it might thereafter be terminated by either party on giving
six months' notice. By the contract, the compensation allowed
to Hall and Manning was twenty per cent on the ordinary premiums upon all policies (excepting those paid for by single
payments) for the first year, and seven and one half per cent
for the second and subsequent years of assurance. An additional allowance was also made for .travelling and incidental
expenses. It was further stipulated that these allowances should
continue to be paid for twenty-five years from the date of each
policy, should any continue so'long in force; and, further, that
.the agents should remit monthly all moneys collected by them,
and"return all uncollected policies and receipts sent to them for
collection by the company. The contract declared that commissions should accrue only as the premiums were paid to the
company.
On the 18th of May, 1870, Hall assigned his interest in the
contract to Manning, with the approval of the company.

Oct 1879.]

MANNING V. INSURANCE 00.

On the seventeenth day of September, 1870, a new arrangement in lieu of the former was made between the parties, by
which it was agreed that Manning should thenceforward receive for his compensation .$5,000 per annum, the commission
to sub-agents to be twenty-five and seven and one-half pei
cent; that 'Manning should collect the renewals of the old
business of Hall, and Hall and Manning, and receive the renewal commissions which said renewals were entitled to under
the former contract. This contract was terminable at the
option of the company at any time within three years.
About the 1st of June, 1871, the company discharged Manning from its service, for reasons wIhich the verdict in the case
establishes to have been lawful and sufficient, and brought this
suit to recover its money in his hands.
Among other defences set up against the claim of the plaintiff, the defendant offered to show that a set-off existed in his
favor for commissions collected and received by the plaintiff
from May 1, 1871, to Dec. 23, 1871, and interest thereon
to the time of the trial. To sustain this (after having made
proof of notice to the plaintiff to produce the books and papers
necessary to show the amount of renewal premiums received
by it from policies obtained through his agency during the
period mentioned, and the books and papers not being produced), he gave evidence to prove that on the 2d of June, 1871,
there were policies in force upon which the annual premiums
would be $87,000, as it appeared in his accounts with his subagencies,; that his annual commissions upon the premiums
would amount to $8,391.14; and that, computing the amount
which would be due to him, accruing between June 2, 1871,
when he was discharged, and Dec. 23, 1871, when the suit -as
commenced, they amounted to about $4,754.97.
But no direct proof whatever was given that any of the policies in force on the 1st of May, 1871, or on the 2d of June,
1871, had been renewed or extended, or that any of the annual
premiums becoming payable after those dates had been paid to
or received by the plaintiff.
Upon this evidence the Circuit Court instructed the jury, in
effect, that if the defendant had been removed from his agency
without justifiable cause, they might find from it what amount

MANNING

V. INSURANCE

CO.

[Sup. 0t.

the plaintiff should have received of renewal premiums; but if
they found he was justifiably removed, there was no proof for
their consideration of the amount of renewal premiums received
or collected in the hands of the company upon which he was
entitled to commissions.
In another part of the charge the same instruction was given,
though in different order. It was, that if by his own conduct
the defendant rendered his removal necessary, before he could
recover from the plaintiff his portion of the renewals, it would
be incumbent upon him to show, not only how many policies
had been taken by his agency, and the premiums due upon
them, but' also that the premiums had been paid to the plaintiff. On the other hand, if by its wrongful act of removing
him the plaintiff deprived him of the means of collecting the
premiums, then when he had shown that renewal premiums to a
certain amount were due and payable upon life policies at the
time when he was removed, which because of its own act the
plaintiff was bound to collect, if collectible, he was entitled to
the presumption that they were collected as they became due,
and, therefore, the burden would rest upon the company to show
that policies had lapsed, or that without its fault it had been
unable to collect the renewal premiums. To so much of these
instructions as ruled in effect that if the defendant was rightfully dismissed from the employment of the plaintiff there was
no evidence for the consideration'of the jury as to the amount
of the renewals, and, of course, of the amount of commissions
thereon, exception was taken, and it is now assigned for error.
We think, however, the defendant has no reason to complain.
The charge was, at least, quite as favorable to him as he had
any right to ask. By his contract with the plaintiff it was
expressly stipulated that the "commissions should accrue only
as the premiums are paid to the company." It was incumbent
upon. him, therefore, to prove, not merely that they were due,
which might possibly have been paid, but that they had been
actually paid, and paid not merely to his sub-agents, but paid
to the plaintiff. If they had been thus paid, the plaintiff held
the money, to the extent of the commissions, for his use. If
they had not been paid to the plaintiff, it had nothing in hand
which belonged to him. His set-off was in the nature of an

Oct. 1879.]

MANNING V. INSURANCE CO.

action for money had and received to his use. The plaintiff
owed him nothing until it received the money. Now, it is
veiT plain that proof of the existence of outstanding premiums
which became payable before his set-off was pleaded fell short
of any proof that those premiums had been actually paid, or
that they were in the hands of the plaintiff.
It is argued, however, that because the plaintiff failed to
produce its books and papers necessary to prove the amount
of renewal premiums received by it, the defendant was at
liberty to prove the amount by what he calls "secondary evidence;" or, in other words, "by the best evidence the case
afforded." This may be admitted; but the receipt of the renewal premiums by the plaintiff was still a fact to be proved,
either by direct or circumstantial evidence.
No direct proof of such receipt was offered, as we have said.
None was attempted. The defendant might have resorted to
a sulbjena duces tecum, or to an order of the court to produce
papers and books, or, perhaps, to a bill of discovery. He did
neither. He simply proved, as a fact, that there were life
policies in existence, secured through his agency, renewal premiums upon which fell due before the suit was brought. His
evidence stopped there, and he now complains that the jury
was not allowed to presume from that fact that the renewal
premiums had been paid to the plaintiff, and to presume it
against a party who was not in the wrong, a party who had
rightfully dismissed him from his agency, and who was under
no obligation to collect the premiums at all. But-was that a
conclusion which the jury should have been permitted to draw
from the fact proved? It is error to submit to a jury to find a
fact of which there is no competent evidence. From the fact
that a debt existed, it does not follow as a necessary or even
reasonable sequence that it has been paid. Nor is there any
presumption of its payment upon which a jury can act. Certainly none until after the lapse of twenty years. Much less
can such a presumption arise in regard to the payment of renewal premiums upon policies of insurance such premiums
not being debts due to the insurers, and not being collectible
as debts. -We do not question that a jury may be allowed to
presume the existence of a fact in some cases from the exist.

MANNING

V. INSURANCE

C0o.

[Sup. Ct.

ence of other facts which have been -proved. But the presumed
fact must have an immediate connection with or relation to
the established fact from which it is inferred. If it has not,
it is regarded as too remote. The only presumptions of fact
which the law recognizes are immediate inferences from facts
proved. Remarking upon this subject in United States v.
Boss (92 U. S. 281, 284), we said: "Whenever circumstantial evidence is relied upon to prove a fact, the circumstances
must be proved, and not themselves be presumed." Referring
to the rule laid down in Starkie on Evidence, page 80, we
added: "It is upon this principle that courts are daily called
upon to exclude evidence as too remote for the consideration
of the jury. The law requires an open and visible connection
between the principal or evidentiary facts and the deductions
from them, and does not permit a decision to be made on remote inferences. Best on Evid. 95. A presumption which a
jury may make is not a circumstance in proof, and it is not,
therefore, a legitimate foundation for a presumption. There
is no open and visible connection between the fact out of which
the first presumption arises and the fact sought to be established by the dependent presumption. -Douglass v. Mitchell,
85 Pa. St. 440."
If these principles be applied to the present case, the inadmissibility of the presumption which the defendant contends
the court should have permitted the jury to draw becomes
apparent: That renewal premiums to a certain amount, upon
which he was entitled to commission, had been paid to the
company, was the ultimate fact which was necessary to be
proved. What the evidence did prove was, that there were
policies in force on the 2d of June, 1871, the annual premiums
upon which were 87,000; that he would be entitled to commissions upon renewals of the policies, if they should be thereafter renewed, and if the renewal premiums should be paid to
the company, and that these premiums were to be collected
by his sub-agents and paid over by them. These were the
primary facts. Every thing more was left to presumption.
The jury, therefore, were to presume that the policies did not
lapse, and that they were renewed. Built on this presumption
was another, namely, that the renewal premiums were paid

Oct. 1879.]

NATIONAL BANK

v.

GRAHAM.

to the agents; and upon this a further presumption, that the
premiums had been paid over by the agents to the company,
or had been immediately collected by it. This appears to us
to have been quite inadmissible. A verdict of a jury found
upon such evidence would have been a mere guess. The evidences of fact did not go far enough. We think, therefore,
the court was not in error in withdrawing it from the consid.
eration of the jury.
What we have said renders it unnecessary to notice at length
the several assignments of error. If there was no evidence of
the receipt of renewal premiums by the company, what would
have been the interest upon them had they been received was
quite immaterial. So, also, was it immaterial to show what
would have been the probable duration of the policies.
Judgment affirmed.

NATIONAL

BANx v.

GRAHA1%.

1. A national bank is liable for damages occasioned by the loss, through gross
negligence, of a special deposit made in it with the knowledge and acquiescence of its officers and directors.
2. Gross neglience on tbe'part of a gratuitous bailee, though not a fraud, is in
legal effect the same thing.
3. The doctrine of utra vires has no application in favor of corporations for
I wrongs committed by them.
4. Sect. 6228 of the Revised Statutes, which provides that it shall be lawful for
a national bank after its failure to "deliver special deposits," is as effectual
a recognition of its power to receive them as an express declaration to that
effect would have been.
6. The phrase "special deposits," so employed, embraces the public securities of
the United States.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Pennsylvania.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
11r. George H. Williams for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Johla Hays, contra.
IMR. JusTmIE SwAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
The capital stock of the First National Bank of Carlisle,
Pennsylvania, was $500,000, divided into fiv6 hundred shares

