Oct. 1879.]

MOORE V. SIMONDS.

tion that the judgment here is conclusive against the defendants is, that before the year elapsed, and indeed within ten
days after the dismissal, the city commenced the present suit
for the same property, in which all their rights were again
brought into litigation. The law which gives to the dissatisfied party a right within one year to re-litigate a second time
a controversy respecting land in Texas, does not bar him or
his grantees from setting up his or their claim, if within the
required period a similar suit respecting the same land is commenced against him or them by the former defendant. The
object of allowing a second litigation of the same title, and of
requiring such litigation to be speedily instituted, is equally
accomplished.
As to the plea of prescription, we agree with the court below
that, under the circumstances, the mixed possession of the parties, their continued contest and litigation from 1854 to the
present time, and the absence of actual' possession by either
of a large portion of the property, no prescription can be
claimed, and that the case must be determined on the documentary evidence of title.
We are satisfied with the conclusions reached by the Circuit
Court, and its judgment is in all respects
Affirmed.

MOORE V. SDONDS.
1. Where the record shows who are the members of a partnership, in the name
of which an appeal has been taken, - Held, that the defect may, under sect.
1005, Rev. Stat., be cured by an amendment substituting their names.
2. A mortgage of a vessel of the United States is not, as against the parties, and
SUCh persons as have actual notice thereof, rendered invalid by the failure
to record it.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
Motion to dismiss the appeal and to affirm the decree below.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
31r. Riczhard De Gray in support of the motion.
31r. Charle8 B. Singleton, contra.
ToL

10

146

MOORE V. SIMONDS.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE

[Sup. Ct.

delivered the opinion of the court.

Technically, this appeal should have been taken in the names
of the individual members of the commercial firm of John T.
Moore & Co., instead of in the name of the firm, and because
of such an irregularity an appeal was dismissed in the case of
The Protector,11 Wall. 82. That case was decided. before the
act of June 1, 1872 (17 Stat. 197, sect. 3, now sect. 1005, Rev.
Stat.), allowing amendments of writs of error in certain cases,
and it does not appear that the defect could have been remedied by reference to any thing in the appeal papers. Here,
however, sect. 1005 was in force when the- appeal was taken,
and the bond shows that the firm in whose favor the appeal
was allowed was composed of John T. Moore and John T.
Moore, Jr. We are clear, therefore, that the defect is one that
may be amended under the law as it now stands, and for
that reason we will not dismiss the appeal. But on looking
into the record we find that the only question involved is
whether the lien of the appellants' mortgage on the steamboat "John T. Moore" is superior to that of another mortgage
in favor of Swift's Iron and Steel Works and Dennis Long.
From the findings of fact it appears that the last-named mortgage was executed Jan. 27, 1871; that it was signed and acknowledged by the owner of the boat in the presence of two
witnesses, one of whom was a notary public; that the witnesses
attested the execution of the mortgage, but the notary did not
sign officially; that there was no other or further acknowledgment of the mortgage before a notary; and that this mortgage
was not recorded in the office of the collector of customs where
the boat was permanently enrolled. The mortgage to Moore
& Co., the appellants, was executed Jan. 3, 1872, and was duly
recorded in accordance with the act of Congress; but when ir
was taken, Moore & Co. had actual notice of the existence of
that to the appellees. Upon this state of facts the court below
held that the mortgage of the appellants was inferior in lien
to that of the appellees; and this was so clearly right, that we
are not inclined to hear an argument upon the question.
The act of Congress relied on bythe appellants is now found
in sects. 4192'and 4193 of the Revised Statutes. These, so far
as they are material to the present inquiry, are as follows: -

Oct. 1879.]

PAVING CO. v. MULFORD.

"SECT. 4192. No bill of sale, mortgage, hypothecation, or conveyance of any vessel, or part of any vessel, of the United States, shall
be valid against any person other than the grantor or mortgagor,
his heirs and devisees, and persons having actual notice thereof,
unless such bill of sale, mortgage, hypothecation, or conveyance is
recorded in the office of the collector of customs where such vessel
is registered or enrolled ...
"SECT. 4193. .

.

. But no bill of sale, mortgage, hypothecation,

or conveyance or discharge of mortgage, or other incumbrance of
any vessel, shall be recorded, unless the same is duly acknowledged
before a notary public or other officer authorized to take acknowledgment of deeds."
To our minds, there is no doubt th'at Congress only intended
to require that a mortgage on a'vessel should be acknowledged
for the purpose of authenticating it for record, and that as
between the parties, and as against persons having actual notice
thereof, it was valid without acknowledgment or record. As
this was the decision of the court below, we deny the motion
to dismiss, and grant that made under Rule 6, to affirm.
.Decree affirmed.

PAVING COMPANY v. MULFORD.

A

bill filed in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia by A. against B.
and C., alleging that each held certificates of indebtedness belonging to him,
was, on final hearing, dismissed, and lie appealed. Held,that, as the recovery,
if any, must be against the defendants severally, and as the amount claimed
from each does not exceed $2,500, this court has no jurisdiction.

to dismiss an appeal from the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
3Mr. A. S. Worthington in support of the motion.
141r. William A. Cook, contra.
MOTION

MR.CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This was a suit in equity brought by the Ballard Paving
Company against Michael Mandle and sundry persons who

