SOULE V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. (it.

name of and for the clerk of the court from which the appeal
comes, or to which the'writ of error is directed, and sealed
with the seal of that court. ThO transcript sent up in this
case comes within this rule.
Motion denied.

SOULB V. UIITED STATES.
Debt on the bond of a collector of interval revenue, bearing date Jan. 12, 1867.
Held, 1. That the audit of his accounts was the duty of the First Auditor.
2. That the settlement of them, as the same appears by the transcript from
the books of the Treasury Department, duly certified and authenticated, is
prima fade evidence of the balance thereby shown, and it is competent for the
accounting officer to correct mistakes and restate the balance. 3. That the
sureties are liable for the gauger's fees received by the collector. 4. Where
a bond given by the latter is objectionable in point of form, the direction
of the Commissione of Internal Revenue to execute a new one must be
considered as that of the Secretary of the Treasury, and the bond given in
complianc& therewith cannot be considered as having been extorted from the
collector and his sureties contrary to the statute.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of California.
This was an action by the United States on the bond executed by Soule as collector of internal revenue for the first
collection district of the Stat-e of California, and his suretis,
bearing date Jan. 12, 1867, and conditioned according to law.
There was a judgment in favor of the United States. The
defendbnts sued out this writ of error.
The assignment of errors and the facts are set forth in the
opinion of the court.
Mr. W W.
VMorrow for the plaintiffs in error.
The Solicitor-General for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD delivered

the opinion of the court.

Internal-revenue collectors are required, before entering upon
the duties of their office, to execute a bond for such amount as
shall be prescribed by the commissioner, under the direction of
the secretary, with not less than five suretids, conlitioned that

Oct;. 1879.]

SOULE V. UNITED STATES.

the collector shall faithfully perform his duties, and account for
and pay over to the United States all public moneys which may
come into his hands and possession. 13 Stat. 225.
Pursuant to that requirement, the defendant first named,
having been appointed such collector, on the 12th of January,
1867, gave the bond described in the complaint, and the other
defendants signed the same as his sureties, the charge in the
complaint being that the collector failed to perform the conditions of the bond.
Service having been made, the defendants appeared and
pleaded as follows: 1. That the allegations of the complaint
are not true. 2. That the bond is void because executed under
duress. 3. Performance.
Subsequently the parties went to trial, and the verdict and
judgment were in favor of the plaintiff. Exceptions were filed
by the defendants, and they sued out the present writ of error,
and removed the cause into this court.
Errors assigned here are as follows: 1. That the court erred in admitting in evidence the transcript of accounts as audited by the fifth auditor.
2. That the -ourt erred in instructing the jury that the sureties were liable for the item charged in the transcript as the
excess collected on the amount of gauger's fees.
3. That the court erred in instructing the jury that the
transcript was prina fade evidence of the correctness of the
item charged therein as the amount of error by the assessor in
footing lists, as per report of the supervisor.
4. That the court erred in instructing the jury.that upon the
evidence given the bond was a voluntary bond and was not
extorted, and that the collector and his sureties were liable
upon it.
5. That the court erred in instructing the jury that the direction to the collector contained in the letter of the commissioner to execute the bond, he having previously given one,
must be considered as the direction of the Secretary of the
Treasury.
Five things are established by the act of Congress: 1. That
it is the duty of the commissioner to pay over daily to the
treasurer all public moneys which may come into his posses-

SOULE V. UNITED STATES.

sion.

[Sup. Ct.

2. That the treasurer is required to give proper receipts
for the money, and keep a faithful account of the same. 3. That
it is also the duty of the commissioner, at the end of each
month, to render true and faithful accounts of all public moneys
received or paid out or paid to the treasurer, and to exhibit
proper vouchers for the same. 4. That it is the duty of the
fifth auditor to receive such vouchers and examine the same,
and to certify the balance, if any, and to-transmit the accounts
with the vouchers and certificate to the first comptroller for his
decision thereon. 5. That it is the duty of the commissioner,
when such accounts are settled as provided in that section, to
tiansmit a copy thereof to the Secretary of the Treasury. 13
Stat. 223.
Argument to show that by the true construction of that section the fifth auditor is the proper officer to audit such accounts
is scarcely necessary, as it is clear that the act contemplates
that they should be audited, and that it does not devolve the
duty upon any other officer. Conclusive support to that theory,
if more be needed, is also derived from the first paragraph of
sect. 277 of the Revised Statutes, which, among other things,
provides that the fifth auditor shall receive and examine all
reports of the commissioner of internal revenue, which of course
embraces such accounts as that of the collector in this case, as
it includes all the accounts rendered in the department of the
commissioner. Rev. Stat. (2d ed.), sect. 277, p. 46.
Authority to appoint gaugers was conferred by the fifty-third
section of the act imposing taxes on distilled spirits and tobacco,
and for other purposes. 15 Stat. 147. Fees for gauging and
inspecting, as prescribed by the commissioner, were to be paid
to the collector by the owner or producer of the articles to be
gauged and inspected. Such fees were to be retained by the
collector until the last day of each month, when the aggregate
amount of fees so retained was, under regulation of the commissioner, to be paid to the officers performing that duty, not
to exceed, however, the rate of .$3,000 per annum.
Four hundred and ninety-four dollars and thirty-eight cents,
money collected from that source in excess of what the collector had paid out, remained in his hands, and was charged
in the -accounts as settled by the accounting officers of the

Oct. 1879.]

SOULE V. UNITED STATES.

treasury. Due exception was taken by the sureties to the ruling of the court that they werc liable for that charge. No
objection was made to the charge as against the collector, but
the objection was that the sureties were not liable, because the
money was received under the subsequent act.
Viewed in that light, it must be assumed that the charge
was a proper one as against the collector, and inasmuch as it
was money collected by law of the owner or producer of the
articles to be gauged and inspected, iLwas clearly public money
in his hands to which he had no legal right. By the .terms of
the bond in suit the sureties are to become responsible if their
principal does not justly and faithfully account for and pay
over to the United States all public moneys which may come
into his hands or possession. Beyond doubt the amount went
into his hands and possession as public money, and in the judgment of the court here, the ruling of the court below, that the
sureties are liable for it, is correct. United States v. Powell,
14 Wall. 493, 502; United States v. Singer, 15 id. 111, 121.
When suit is brought in any.case of delinquency of a'revenue
officer or other person accountable for public money, a transcript
from the books and proceedings of the Treasury Department,
certified by the register, and authenticated under the seal of
the department, . . . shall be submitted as evidence; and the
court trying the cause shall be authorized to grant judgment
and award execution accordingly. Rev. Stat., sect. 886; Brure
v. U ited States, 17 How. 439; Smith v. United States, 5 Pet.
292; Cox v. United States, 6 id. 172; Hoyt v. United States, 10
How. 109.
Treasury settlements of the kind are only prima facie evidence of the correctness of the balance certified; but it is as
competent for the accounting officers to correct mistakes and
to restate the balance as it is for a judge to change his decree
during the term in which it was entered. United States v.
Eeiford, 1 id. 250. Errors of computation against the United
States are no more "vested rights in favor of sureties than
in favor of the principal. Al such mistakes in cases like the
present may be corrected by a restatement of the account.
Sufficient appears to show that the principal defendant was
appointed collector March 28, 1865, in the recess of the Senate,

12

SOULE V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

to hold until the expiration of the then next session of Congress, and no longer. On the 25th of July following he was
appointed to the same office by the President and was confirmed
by the Senate. Due notice of his appointment was given, and
he was furnished with a blank f6rm of bond, which, on Nov. 2,
1866, he executed with sureties; but the bond being several
and not joint and several, as it should be, he was officially requested to execute a new bond correcting that error. In pursuance of that request, on the 12th of January of the next year
he executed the bond described in the complaint, and from the
date of the first bond to the date of the second his accounts
wdre settled by the treasury officers under the first bond.
When the second bond was offered in evidence, the defendant
objected to its admissibility; but the court overruled the objection, and instructed the jury that it was not extorted, which
instruction constitutes the fourth exception.
Evidence to support the charge of duress is entirely wanting.
Instead of that, the defendant testified that he did not remember that he made any objection to executing the bond, and supposed that he did it because the commissioner had given such
directions.
Exception was also taken to the instruction of the court that
the direction of the commissioner to execute a new bond must
be considered as the direction of the secretary, which is so
obviously correct as to require no argument in its support, as
it is matter of common knowledge that the commissioner is
a subordinate officer of the Treasury Department. Dugan v.
United States, 3 Wheat. 172; United States v. Kirkpatriek,
9 id. 720 ; Hamilton v. Dillon, 21 Wall. 73.
Suffice it to say that in view of these suggestions it is clear
that there is no error in the record.
JTudgment affirmed.

