Oct. 1879.]

SHAW V. RAILROAD Co.

demauded a payment of thirty-two cents per pound on Black-well's tobacco, when, on July 1, 1872, he applied to withdraw
it for sale or consumption.
Nor was the collector responsible for any damage to the
obacco resulting from the delay in obtaining the necessary
stamps after Blackwell's demand in August, 1872. The collector was then, it is true; without the necessary stamps, but
be made requisition for them upon the proper authorities at
Washington. In view of the refusal of the appellee to pay the
tax upon the first application for withdrawal on 1st July, 1872,
the collector was justified in believing that appelleewould not
pay the required tax, and he was, therefore, under no obligation to keep stamps constantly in readiness for him.
We perceive in the evidence no just ground upon which to
rest a verdict against the plaintiff in error. The jury should
have been instructed to find in her favor.
The judgment will be reversed, with directions for further
proceedings in conformity with this opinion; and it is
So ordered.

SnAw v. RAiLROAD COmPA. Y.

SAM v. SAMJ.
t. The trustee to whom a railroad company executed a mortgage upon its property, to secure the payment of its bonds, represents the bondholders in all
legal proceedings carried on by him affecting his trust, to which they are
not actual parties, and whatever binds him, if he acts in good faith, binds
them.
2. If bondholders not parties to !he suit in which a decree was rendered in favoi
of the trustee can, under any circumstances, bring a bill of review, they
can only have such relief as he would be entitled to in the same form of
proceeding. To avoid what he has done in their behalf, they must proceed
in some other way tham by bill of review.
3. Except under extraordinary circumstances, the power of the court oughl
never to be exercised in enabling the trustees, where the railroad is unfin
ished, to borrow money by means of a receiver's certificates which create r
paramount lien upon the property, in order to complete the work.
4. Upon a bill filed by the trustees to foreclose mortgages executed by a railroat
company in Arkansas, one upon its road and the other upon its land grant.

SHiw v. RAILROAD CO.

[Sup. Ct.

to secure its bonds the court found that they were valid and subsisting
'liens, that the whole amount of the bonds was due and unpaid, and decreed
that in default of payment of principal and interest, at a specified late, the
mortgaged property be sold and the proceeds thereof divided among the
bondholders. A large majority in interest of the latter held, subsequently
to the decree, and upon full notice, a meeting, at which a committee was
appointed to purchase the property for the benefit of the bondholders. The
committee accordingly purchased it at the sale. The sale was duly reported
to the court, when the purchasers appeared therein and declared, and desired
it to be so recorded, that it was their intention to orgaize a corporation
under the laws of the State, to own, hold, and manage the property, and
that any bondholder might, within sixty days from such organization,
transfer to it his bonds and right to the proceeds of the sale, and become
entitled to his proportional interest in the stock of the new corporation
upon the same terms and stipulations as any other bondholder; but that
said new corporation was not to be prevented thereby from requiring from
any bondholder the payment of his proportion of the expenses attending
the sale and purchase, and such other sums not exceeding five per cent of
the principal of the bonds as it inight deem for its interests to require as a
condition on which stock should be delivered, provided that the same requirement should be made of all the other bondholders; and, further, that
the stipulation should not limit the power of the purchasers to organize the
corporation without notice, or of the corporation po organized to mortgage
its property or reserve for its own use not exceeding ten per cent of its
capital stock. At the same time, the trustees in the mortgages appeared in
court and consented to an approval and 'confirmation of the sale, upon the
agreement that the stipulation of the purchasers be embodied in the decree.
Thereupon a decree was passed accordingly. The proper conveyance was
made, and, as part of the consideration therefor, the decree also provided
for the payment or compromise by the new corporation of certain claims
against the old company. Held, 1. That the fact that some of the trustees
were bondholders was not of itself sufficient to render them incompetent
to consent to the decree. 2. That a bill filed by two bondholders not impugning the good faith of the trustees, but praying that the decree be
reviewed and set aside, was properly dismissed.

APPEALS

from the Circuit Court of the United States for the

Eastern District of Arkansas.
These cases present the following facts: By an act approved Feb. 9, 1853 (10 Stat. 155), Congress
granted lands to the State of Arkansas to aid in building a
railroad. Power was given the State to sell them only as the
road was completed in sections of twenty miles each. If the
road was not finished in a specified time, all lands not sold
were to revert to the United States. A part of the lands thus
donated by Congress were granted by the State to the Little
Rock and Fort Smith Railroad Company.

Oct. 1879.]

SHAW

v.

RAILROAD

CO.

On the 22d of December, 1869, the railroad company executed a mortgage on its railroad, completed and to be completed,
to Henry W. Paine anl Samuel T. Dana, as trustees, to secure
an issue of bonds amounting in the aggregate to $3,500,000,
payable Jan. 1, 1890, with interest semi-annually at six per
cent per annum, and on the 20th of June, 1870, it executed
another mortgage on its land-grant, earned and to be earned,
to Paine, Dana, and William B. Stevens, to secure another issue
of bonds for -S5,000,000, payable April 1, 1900, with interest
semi-annually at seven per cent per annum. Each of the mortgages contained this clause: "In case default shall be made in the payment of any halfyear's interest on any of the said bonds, at the time and in
the manner in the coupon issued therewith provided, the said
coupons having been presented and the payment of the interest
therein specified having been demanded, and such default shall
continue for the period of three months after said coupons
shall have become due, and been demanded as aforesaid, then
and thereupon the principal of all the said bonds shall, at
the election of the trustees, become immediately due and
payable."
On the 12th of May, 1874, all the bonds provided for in both
these mortgages had been put out and one hundred miles of
the road built. About sixty miles remained to be completed,
and the company was without funds or credit. All interest on
the bonds falling due Jan. 1, 1871, and thereafter, was in arrear
and unpaid. Thereupon Paine, a citizen of Massachusetts, at
that time the only trustee of the mortgage of the railroad, and
Paine, Stevens, and Charles W. Huntington, all citizens of
Massachusetts, then the trustees of the land-grant mortgage,
commenced suits in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Eastern District of Arkansas to foreclose their respective
mortgages. In each of the bills the necessary averments of
fact were made to entitle the parties to a decree of sale, and
the trustees elected to treat the principal of the bonds as due.
All the necessary defendants, including certain judgment creditors, were made, and there was nothing at that time in the
citizenship of the parties to interfere with the jurisdiction of
the court. The first of these cases is the suit upon the railroad

SHAW V. RAILROAD CO.

[Sup. OL.

mortgage, and the second that on the land grant. Afterwards
changes in the trustees were made, so that Charles W. Huntington and Samuel H. Gookin represented the railroad mortgage,
and Huntington, Gookln, and Samuel Atkins the land grant.
The proper substitutions were made on the record, the new
trustees all being citizens of Massachus etts.
Subsequently, on the 3d of October, 1874, an amendment
was made to the bill for the foreclosdre of the railroad mortgage, by which Atkins, one of the trustees of the land-grant
mortgage, and other persons, citizens of Massachusetts, were
brought in as defendants to that suit. The object of this
amendment was to obtain the appointment of a receiver of the
property with a view to raising money on receiver's certificates
to complete the road and save the unearned land grant. No
such appointment was made, however, and nothing was done
under the amendment. On the 6th of November, a decree was
entered in each of the cases, finding that the mortgage sued
on was a valid and subsisting lien on the mortgaged property;
that the whole amount of the bonds in each case had been
issued, and, with the interest thereon, was due and unpaid;
and ordering'the mortgaged property to be sold unless the
debt, principal and interest, was paid on or before the 10th
of December then next. Provision was also made in each
case for a'distribution of the proceeds of the sales among the
bondholders.
After this decree was rendered, a public meeting of the holders of both classes of bonds was called in Boston on full notice,
and, as the result of that meeting, George 0. Shattuck, Francis M. Weld, and George Ripley were appointed by parties
representing in the aggregate $6,097,000 of the bonds, to purchase the mortgaged property fQr the benefit of the bondholders. They accordingly appeared at the sale, and became the
purchasers of the railroad for $50,000, and the land grant for
the same amount. The sale was duly reported fo the court on
the 19th of December, when the purchasers appeared and
declared in open court, and desired to have it recbrded, that
it was their intention to organize a corporation under the laws
of Arkansas, to own, hold, and manage the property bought at
the sales, and that the holder of any of the bonds secured by

Ot. 1879.]

SHAW V. RAILROAD Co.

either mortgage might, within sixty days from the time of the
organization of the corporation, transfer to it his bonds -and
his right to the proceeds of the sale, and become entitled to his
proportional interest in the stock of the new corporation upon
the same terms and stipulations as any other holder of the
bonds; but this was not to prevent the new corporation from
requiring from any and all bondholders the payment of his
proportion of the expenses attending the sales and purchases,
and such other sums not exceeding five per cent of the principal of the bonds as it might deem for its interests to require
as a condition on which the stock should be delivered, provided that the same requirement should be made of all the
other holders of bonds, and provided further, that this stipulation should not limit the power of the purchasers to organize
the corporation without notice, or of the corporation so organized tc, mortgage its property, or to reserve for its own use an
amount of its capital stock, not exceeding ten per cent thereof.
-At the same time, the several trustees appeared in court and
consented to a confirmation of the sales upon the agreement
that the stipulations of the purchasers thus given be embodied
in the decrees approving and confirming the sales. Thereupon
appropriate orders of confirmation containing the required stipulations were entered, and the proper conveyances made. In
the order confirming the sale under the land-grant mortgage,
it was proVided that the new corporation should, as part of
the consideration for the conveyance, compromise' or pay suci
claims against the old company as Huntington, Ripley, and
Henry A. Whitney might within one year approve, and upon
such terms and in such manner as they should prescribe.
On the 22d of February, 1875, Charles H. Richardson, Frank
Shaw, and David S. Greenough, of Boston, representing themselves to be holders of a large amount of the bonds, filed their
petition in court, asking that the decree of confirmation might
be modified by striking out the clause requiring payment of
the claims against the railroad company, and that the provisions of the decrees relating to the exchange of bonds for stock
in the new corporation might be extended until the question
of modification should be decided. As one of the grounds of
this application, it was alleged that Weld and Atkins were
VOL. x.

39

SHAW v. RAILROAD CO.

[Sup. Ct.

creditors of the railroad company. This petition was answered
by the several trustees explaining the facts. On the 13th of
April, the time for exchanging bonds for stock in the new corporation was extended for siaty days, and the order for the
payment of claims against the railroad company so modified
as to make- the approval of a claim by the court necessary
before it could be paid, and providing for notice to Richardson, Greenough, and Shaw whenever a claim was presented for
allowance.
On the 6th of July, 1875, Greenough, as owner of $58,000
of the bonds, and Shaw, as owner of $11,000, filed in th6 Circuit Court, in each of the cases, what is denominated a bill of
review, in which they ask that the decrees be reviewed and
reversed, and they placed in the same situation they would
have been if the decrees had not been rendered. The errors
complained of relate to the sufficiency of the allegations in the
original bills; the confirmation of the sales, by the consent of
the trustees, upon the terms stipulated for; a want of jurisdiction in the court, as the complainants and many of the
defendants were citizens of the same State; and the rendition
of a decree against the railroad company, without service of
subpcena, after filing the amended bill. It was also alleged that
Gookin and Atkins, trustees of the mortgages, were holders of
bonds secured by the respective trusts. Demurrers to both
bills were filed, which the court below sustained, and dismissed
the suits. Shaw and Greenough thereupon appealed.
Mr. B. C. Brown, for the appellants, cited Clearwater v.
Mferedith, 1 Wall. 25 ; Vose v. Bronson, 6 id. 452 ; Jackson v.
Ludeling, 21 id. 616; Thomas v. Brockenborough, 10 Wheat.
146.
Mr. C. TV. Huntington, contra, cited Whiting v. Bank of
the United States, 13 Pet. 6-15; Crawshay v. Soutter et al.,
:6 Wall. 739; Galveston Railroadv. Cowdrey, 11 id. 459; Twin
Lick Oil Co. v. Marbury, 91 U. S. 587; Kerrison, Assignee, v.
.Stewart et al., 93 id. 155; Buffington v. Harvey, 95 id. 99;
.Sage v. Central Railroad Co., 99 id. 334; West et als. v. -Davis,
-4McLean, 241 ; Smith v. Chicago J Northwestern Railroad Co.,
"18 Wis. 17; Carpenter v. Catlin, 44 Barb. (N. Y.) 75; Hill.
7,Trustees, 152, note and cases cited.

Oct. 1879.]

SHAW V. RAILROAD CO.

Al. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE, after stating the facts, delivered
the opinion of the court.
We think it clear that the appellants are not entitled to the
relief they ask. They were not parties to the original suits,
except through their trustees, against whom they make no
charges. Indeed, their counsel says in his brief, "It is probable that they [the trustees] believed that they were doing the
best possible for their beneficiaries." The trustee of a railroad
mortgage represents the bondholders in all legal proceedings
carried on by him affecting his trust, to which they are not
actual parties, and whatever binds him, if he acts in good
faith, binds them. If a bondholder not a party to the suit
can, under any circumstances, bring a bill of review, he can
only have such relief as the trustee would be entitled to in the
same form of proceeding. To avoid what the trustee has done
in his behalf, he must proceed in some other way than by bill
of review. All the errors complained of in these bills of review, as occurring before the confirmation of the sale, are such
as affect only the railroad company injuriously. If, in fact,
they are errors at all, they were in favor of the trustees and
those they represent, and not against them. Of these the
trustees could not complain. As no relief was granted under
the amendment to the bill in the foreclosure of the railroad
mortgage, the court clearly had jurisdiction of that case for the
purposes of the decree as rendered.
But if the bills, as filed, are original in their character, to set
aside the decrees complained of and not for review only, the
appellants are in no better condition. The trustees had an
undoubted right to commence these suits when they did; and
it is apparent from the whole record that all their proceedings, both before and after the sale, were in the interest of
their beneficiaries generally, since one hundred and eighty in
number, representing in the aggregate eight million out of
the eight million five hundred thousand dollars of bonds outstanding, accepted the result and exchanged their bonds for
stock in the new corporation. To allow a small minority of
bondholders, representing a comparatively insignificant amount
of the mortgage debt, in the absence of any pretence even of
fraud or unfairness, to defeat the wishes of such an overwhelm-

612..

SHAW V. RAILROAD CO.

[Sup. Ct.

ing majority of those associated with them in the benefits of
their common security, would be to ignore entirely the relation
-which bondholders, secured by a railroad mortgage, bear to
each other. Railroad mortgages are a peculiar class of securities. The trustee represents the mortgage, and in executing
his trust miay exercise his own discretion within the scope of
his powers. If there are differences of opinion among the
bondholders as to what their interests require, it is not improper that he should be governed by the voice of the majority, acting in good faith and without collusion, if what they
ask is not inconsistent with the provisions of his trust. This
company and these trustees were peculiarly situated. The
road was unfinished, and the land grant, to a large extent,
unearned. While the mortgages, as they stood, were first
liens, there was great danger that their value would be
seriously impaired unless more money could be raised. The
attention of both the trustees and bondholders was called to
that fact, and at first it seems to have been thought that the
end might be accomplished through the instrumentality of a
receiver and receiver's certificates. This necessarily contemplated the creation of a lien on the mortgaged property superior to that which then existed. Although the mortgages
were separate, and on separate properties, the value of each
depended, to a large extent, on the ability of the railroad
company to finish its road.
For some reason the idea of a receiver and receiver's certificates seems to have been abandoned, and what, to our minds,
was a much more desirable plan adopted. The power of the
courts ought never to be-used in enabling railroad mortgagees
to protect their securities by borrowing money to complete
unfinished roads, except under extraordinary circumstances.
It is always better to do what was done here whenever it can
be; that is to say, reorganize the enterprise on -the basis of
existing mortgages as stock, or something which is equivalent,
and by a new mortgage, with a lien superior to the old, raise
the money which is required without asking the courts to
engage in the business of railroad building. The result, so
far as incumbering the mortgage security is concerned, is the
same substantially in both cases, while the reorganization

Oct. 1879.]

SHAW v, RAILROAD CO,

places the whole enterprise in the hands of those immediately
interested in its successful prosecution.
The bare fact that some of the trustees were holders of
bonds secured by their trust is not sufficient of itself to make
them incompetent to consent to such a decree as was rendered.
From the whole case it is apparent that from the beginning
their conduct was governed by the wishes of a very large
majority of bondholders. If there was anywhere the slightest
evidence of fraud or unfaithfulness, their conduct would be
carefully scrutinized. The acts of trustees when personally
interested should always be open and fair. Slight circumstances will sometimes be considered sufficient proof of wrong
to justify setting aside what has been done. But when every
thing is honestly done, and the courts are satisfied that the
rights of others have nob been prejudiced to the advantage of
the trustee, the simple fact of interest is not sufficient to
justify the withholding of a confirmation of his acts.
Here the name of Gookin, one of the trustees, appears in the
list of bondholders appointing the committee to make the purchase at the sale as the holder of two hundred thousand dollars
of the bonds. Associated with him in the list were others
representing near six millions of dollars. His name openly
appeared on the paper when the court was asked to confirm
the sale on the conditions agreed to. Certainly this is not
sufficient to defeat the plan to which he and his associates
gave their consent. Atkins, another trustee, was a creditor of
the company, whose debt came within the provision made in
the decree for payment by the new corporation. All this was
fully explained to the court when the modification of the
decree in this particular was asked for, and since no claim can
now be paid except with the approval of the court after notice
to the appellants, we see no reason why what has already been
done is not sufficient for the protection of all concerned.
On the whole, we see no reason for interfering with the
decrees below, and they are each, therefore,
Affirmed.

