Oct. 1879.]

JONES v. BLACKWELL.

would relieve the corporation from the obligation to pay its
foreign bondholder the full sum for which it-contracted, we
need not discuss; for this court, on all such subjects, is bound
by the legislative and political departments of its own government. The tax is laid by Congress on the net earnings, which
are the results of the business of the corporation, on which
Congress had clearlyca right to lay it; and being lawfully
assessed and paid, it cannot be recovered back by reason of any
inefficiency or ethical objection to the remedy over against the
bondholder.
Judgment affirmed.

JONES v. BLACKWELL.
Manufactured tobacco shipped in bond from the manufactory and stored in an
export bonded warehouse on the 14th of June, 1872, was subject to the tax of
thirty-two cents per pfound, prescribed by the internal-revenue act of July 20,
18 8. 15 Stat. 162.

Ernon to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
This action was brought by Blackwell against Stockdale,
collector of internal revenue for the first collection district of
Louisiana, and, on his death, revived against Jones, his executrix.
Judgment having been rendered against her, she sued ou
this writ of error.
The facts are sufficiently stated in the opinion of the court.
111r. AssistantAttorney- (#eneral Sm)ith for the plaintiff in error.
01r. T 1). Rouse and Mr. William Grant, contra.
JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
The tobacco described in the petition was shipped by Blackwell, the plaintiff .below, in bond, from the manufactory in
Virginia to the port of New Orleans, and was there entered
in bond in an export bonded warehouse on June 13,.1872. On
the 1st of July next thereafter he, by his agents, applied to
the collector of internal revenue, for the first collection district

MR.

JONES v. BLACKWELL.

LbuP. UL

of Louisiana, including the city of New Orleans, to withdraw
the tobacco for sale or consumption, offering to pay a tax on
the same at the rate of twenty cents per pound, as prescribed
in the act of June 6, 1872. 17 Stat. 249. The collector
refused to permit its withdrawal unless a tax at the rate of
thirty-two cents per pound was first paid, as prescribed by the
act of July 20, 1868. 15 id. 152.
Upon the -trialin the court below the jury were instructed,
among other things, that, on and after July 1, 1872, and prior
to March 8, 1873, the only tax imposed by law upon manufactured tobacco was twenty cents per pound. The principal
question before us is as to the correctness of that instruction.
By the first section of the act of July 20, 1868, a tax of
thirty-two cents per pound was imposed upon all manufactured
tobacco. The same act provided for a system of export bonded
warehouses, to be designated and established by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, at any port of entry in the United
States, "for the storage of manufactured tobacco and snuff in
bond intended for exportation." Manufactured tobacco, after
being removed in bond from the manufactory to an export
bonded warehouse, could, however, be withdrawn, upon payment of tax, for sale or consumption.
Up to Nov. 21, 1871, on which day the Commissioner submitted his annual report of the operations of the internal-revenue system for the fiscal year ended June. 80, 1871, there had
been established and were in operation sixteen of such export
bonded warehouses. They were located in Massachusetts, New
York, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, Louisiana, California
and Oregon. From the report of the Commissioner, of which
we may take judicial notice, it appears that during that fiscal
year 10,621,183 pounds were withdrawn for exportation from
the several export bonded warehouses, while the quantity withdrawn froni them for consumption during the same period was
11,499,659 pounds, -showing that less than one-half of the
tobacco and snuff received in bond from the manufactory was
actually exported. The Commissioner stated that from the
eight bonded warehouses, established at the several ports of
Philadelphia, Baltimore, New Orleans, San Francisco, and
Portland, Oregon, in which were stored during the fiscal year

Oct. 1879.]

JONES v. BLACWKwELL.

ended June 30, 1871, 9,437,257 pounds of manufactured tobacco,
only 437,495 pounds during that period were withdrawn for
exportation, while 8,480,656 pounds were withdrawn for consumption. "The practical operation," said he, "of this system
of bonded warehouses hitherto has been to give to a few individuals and firms, more particularly the proprietors of the warehouses, the same facilities for storing tobacco, without the prepr(iment of t'7x, as were given by the former system of class B,
bonded warehouses, abolished by the act of July 20, 1868."
He therefore recommended the abolition of the system of export bonded warehouses, as required by the best interests both
of the government and of the manufacturer. The benefits to
result from such abolition were that "a large portion of the
expenses now [then] incurred by the manufacturers in exporting their goods would be saved, the government would receive
the taxes on all goods when removed from the place of manufacture, all jobbers and dealers in manufactured tobacco would be
placed on the same footing with regard to the traffic in tax-paid
goods, and the special privileges and advantages enjoyed by a
few individuals and firms would be removed."
It was doubtless because of these official recommendations
from the head of the internal revenue system that Congress
made the numerous amendments of the act of July 20, 1868,
which appear in the act of June 6, 1872.
The contention of the defendant in error is, that while all
manufactured tobacco stored in export bonded warehouses and
withdrawn for sale or consumption before the first day of July,
1872, was subject to the tax prescribed by the act of July
20, 1868, all found stored in such warebotises on the 1st of
July, 1872, without regard to the date of its deposit therein in
bond, was subject, upon withdrawal qd and after that date, for
sale or consumption, to the reduced tax prescribed by the act
of June 6, 1872. To this construction of the statute we cannot
yield our assent.
It is true that the act of J'une 6, 1872, which took effect on
the 1st of August, 187", "except where otherwise provided,"
declares "that on and after the first day of July next," that is,
July 1, 1872 there shall be assessed and collected on manufactured tobacco a tax of twenty cents per pound. But the sec-

JoNEs v. BLACKWELL.

[Sup. 0t.

tion (sect. 31) which so declares must be interpreted in connection with other provisions of the act, and with reference to the
reasons which caused the radical changes made by that act in
the internal-revenue system as previously established. We
have already seen that the attention of Congress was called to
the evils which had grown up under the system of export
bonded warehouses, and to the necessity of its abolition. The
act of June 6, 1872, gave effect to the rtcommendations of the
Commissioner, and made such provisions as would enable him to
.dispense with such warehouses altogether. But 'aspecific provision was made as to tobacco which had been previously placed
in export bonded warehouses under the act of June 20, 1868.
It was declared, "All tobacco and snuff now stored in any export bonded warehouse shall, on and after July 1, 1872, be subject to the same tax as is provided by this act, and shall, within
six months after the passage of this act, be withdrawn from such
warehouse upon payment of the tax, or for export, under the
regulations of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue now in
force concerning withdrawals of tobacco or snuff from bonded
warehouses. And any tobacco or snuff remaining in any export
bonded warehouse for a period of more than six months after
the passage of this act shall be forfeited to the United States,
and shall be sold or disposed of for the benefit of the same
in such manner as shall be prescribed by the Commissioner
of Internal Revenue, under the direction of the Secretary of
the Treasury." We entertain no doubt as to the object of this
provision. It evidently refers only to tobacco stored in export
bonded warehouses at the date of the passage of th~e act, and not,
also, as claimed by the defendant in error, to that stored in
such warehouses after that date, and before the 1st of July,
1872. If Congress intended that all manufactured tobacco,
whether at the manufactory or in an export bonded warehouse,
should, on the 1st of July, 1872, have the benefit of the reduced
tax of twenty cents, there would have been no necessity for a
that is, at the passage
special declaration that tobacco "now "of the act-stored in export bonded warehouses should, on and
after July 1, 1872, be subject to the tax prescribed by the act
of June 6, 1872. The necessity for such declaration lay in the
fact that unless tobacco, deposited in export bonded warehouses

Oct. 1879.]

JONES V. BLACKWELL.

prior to that act, was, in express terms, given the benefit of the
reduced tax, it would be liable to the tax of thirty-two cents
imposed by the act of July 20, 1868. This will become perfectly clear when attention is given to the regulations which the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue had prescribed, and which
we'e then in force, in reference to the shipment of tobacco in
bond from the manufactory to an export bonded warehouse;
Before any shipment could take place, it was necessary that an
inspector should inspect, weigh, and mark each package of
tobacco proposed to be shipped to an export bonded warehouse.
His report of inspection indicated the marks and numbers of
each package, the number of packages and their contents, the
number of pounds, the rate and amount of tax. All these items
were carried into the transportation bond which the shipper
was required to execute. They appeared also in the report of
inspection when the tobacco reached its destination; and, finally,
when the tobacco was received by the storekeeper at the export bonded warehouse, the shipper was required to execute
bond, with surety, binding him to pay "the amount of taxes
due and owing" on the tobacco, the rate and amount of tax
due thereon being described on the face of the hond, and being
the same as that shown in the certificate of the inspector. So
that as to all tobacco in export bonded warehouses on 6th June,
1872, the government then held bonds obligating the parties
thereto to pay the tax, as to rate and amount, which appeared
on all the official documents connected with the transportation
from the manufactory to the bonded warehouse. Hence the
specific provision giving the owners of tobacco, stored in export
bonded warehouses on 6th June, 1872, the benefit, on and after
the 1st of July, 1872, of the reduced tax, as well as the privilege of keeping it there for six months without removal or
payment of tax.
But when Congress declared that tobacco stored in such
warehouses, at the date of the passage of the act of June 6,
1872, should be subject to the tax provided by that act, it does
not at all follow that tobacco stored in export bonded warehouses after the passage of that act, and before July 1, 1872,
when the reduced tax took effect, was entitled to the benefit
of the reduction. Such a construction of the act would be

JONES V. BLACKWELL.

[Sup. Ct.

inconsistent with the policy which dictated the abolition bf the
system of export warehouses, as well as with the necessary
implications arising from the specific provision as to tobacco
storedl in such warehouses at the date of the act. It deprives
the word "now" in the clause we have quoted of all meaning.
If the tobacco in question had remained in the manufactory
until July 1, 1872, it would have been subject to a tax of only
twenty cents; but it could not on that day, and under the act
of June 6, 1872, have been removed therefrom for sale or
consumption except upon payment of the tax. If, however,
Blackwell chose not to wait until that date, when the reduction would take effect as to all tobacco in the manufactory,
but preferred to ship it in bond to an export bonded warehouse,
between June 6, 1872, and July 1, 1872, he must abide by the
terms of the bond given at the time his tobacco was deposited
in such warehouse. His bond, upon its face, recites -if
the
statute was complied with -the rate and amount of tax prescribed by the law in force when'the bond was executed. He
could not satisfy its terms except by paying the amount it
called for. That Congress gave the owners of tobacco stored
in bonded warehouses on 6th June, 1872, the benefit of the
reduced tax--consitutes no reason why such reduction should
be applied to tobacco stored in such warehouses after that
date, when the owner had, prior to July 1, 1872, given bond
covering the tax due under the then existing law. If the
act of June 6, 1872, had prescribed an increase of tax to take'
effect on the first day of July thereafter, no one would contend that such increase would have applied to tobacco stored
in an export bonded warehouse between June 6, 1872, and
July 1, 1872. That Congress reduced, rather than increased,
the tax, to be assessed and collected on and after July 1,
1872, does not authorize the court to relieve Blackwell from
the obligations of his bond, given prior to that date, to pay
the tax as ascertained and fixed by the law in force when
it was executed; especially, since the act of June 6, 1872, did
not go into effect before July 1, 1872, as to the reduced tax,
except as to tobacco stored in export bonded warehouses on
6th June, 1872.
It results from what has been said that the collector rightly

Oct. 1879.]

SHAW V. RAILROAD Co.

demauded a payment of thirty-two cents per pound on Black-well's tobacco, when, on July 1, 1872, he applied to withdraw
it for sale or consumption.
Nor was the collector responsible for any damage to the
obacco resulting from the delay in obtaining the necessary
stamps after Blackwell's demand in August, 1872. The collector was then, it is true; without the necessary stamps, but
be made requisition for them upon the proper authorities at
Washington. In view of the refusal of the appellee to pay the
tax upon the first application for withdrawal on 1st July, 1872,
the collector was justified in believing that appelleewould not
pay the required tax, and he was, therefore, under no obligation to keep stamps constantly in readiness for him.
We perceive in the evidence no just ground upon which to
rest a verdict against the plaintiff in error. The jury should
have been instructed to find in her favor.
The judgment will be reversed, with directions for further
proceedings in conformity with this opinion; and it is
So ordered.

SnAw v. RAiLROAD COmPA. Y.

SAM v. SAMJ.
t. The trustee to whom a railroad company executed a mortgage upon its property, to secure the payment of its bonds, represents the bondholders in all
legal proceedings carried on by him affecting his trust, to which they are
not actual parties, and whatever binds him, if he acts in good faith, binds
them.
2. If bondholders not parties to !he suit in which a decree was rendered in favoi
of the trustee can, under any circumstances, bring a bill of review, they
can only have such relief as he would be entitled to in the same form of
proceeding. To avoid what he has done in their behalf, they must proceed
in some other way tham by bill of review.
3. Except under extraordinary circumstances, the power of the court oughl
never to be exercised in enabling the trustees, where the railroad is unfin
ished, to borrow money by means of a receiver's certificates which create r
paramount lien upon the property, in order to complete the work.
4. Upon a bill filed by the trustees to foreclose mortgages executed by a railroat
company in Arkansas, one upon its road and the other upon its land grant.

