PARISH V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

PARISH V. UNITED STATES.
1. The acts of the Assistant Surgeon-General, appointed under the act of Congress
and located at St. Louis, are the acts of the Surgeon-General, and have the
same validity until countermanded or revoked.
2. Where parties in the effort to fulfil an order for a large amount of ice for
the use of the government, which by their contract they were bound to
furnish, purchased ice which was lost by the suspension of the order of the
Assistant Surgeon-Generalby his superior officer, they are entitled to recover
the cost of the ice so lost and the expense of the care and attempt to preserve it.
APPEAL from the Court of Claims.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

31r. John B. Sanborn and Mr. Ralph P. Lowe for the appellant.
The Solieitor- aeneral, contra.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was commenced in the Court of Claims, under an
act of Congress specially authorizing it, approved May 31, 1872.
There is nothing in the act which furnishes any rule for its
decision, though some of its provisions are emphasized in the
argument of counsel. The action was brought on the following
contract:

-

"Article of agreement made this fifth day of March, 1863, between Henry Johnson, medical store-keeper, United States army,
and acting medical purveyor. Washington, D. C., on the one part,
and Joseph W. Parish and William L. Huse, comprising the firm of
Joseph W. Parish & Co., of the city of St. Louis, State of Missouri,
of the other part, witnesseth : "That the said Henry Johnson, medical store-keeper United
States army, for and on behalf of the United States of America,
and the said Joseph W. Parish and William L. Huse, comprising
the firm of J. W. Parish & Co., for themselves, their heirs, executors,
and administrators, have mutually agreed, and by these presents do
mutually covenant and agree, to and with each other, in the manner
following, viz.: "First,That said J. W. Parish & Co. shall deliver at Memphis,
Tennessee; Nashville, Tennessee; St. Louis, Missouri; and Cairo,
Tllinois, the whole amount of ice reqtired to be consumed at each

Oct. 1879.]

PARISH V. UNITED STATES.

respective point and vicinity during the remainder of the year 1863.
Ice to be in quality A No. 1, and delivered at two thousand (2,000)
pounds to the ton.
",'conl, That for each and every ton of ice delivered at Nashville, Tennessee, and accepted by the medical officer in charge,
the said J. W. Parish & Co. shall receive the sum of twenty-five
dollars ($25).
" Tldrd, That for each and every ton of ice delivered at St.
Louis, Missouri, and accepted by the medical officer in charge, the
said J. W. Parish & Co. ihall receive the sum of sixteen dollars

(S16).
".Fowith, That for each and every ton of ice delivered at Cairo,
Illinois, and accepted by the medical officer in charge, the said
J. W. Parish & Co. shall receive the sum of twenty dollars ($20).
"1F th, That for each and every ton of ice delivered at Memphis, Tennessee, and accepted by the medical officer in charge,
the taid J. W. Parish & Co. shall receive the sum of twenty dollars

(*20).
"1Sixth,All the ice delivered under this contract to be subjected
to the inspection and approval of the medical officer in charge of
the post where it is delivered, and such as does not conform to the
specifications set fbrth in this contract shall be rejected.
" &veith, That payments shall be made from time to time on
receipted bills of lading and duplicate accounts certified to by the
medical officer in charge of the post where it is delivered.
".Ei gihith,
No member of Congress shall be admitted to any share
herein or any benefit to arise therefrom.
"_N7inth, it is further agreed that the said J. W. Parish & Co.
will allow three (3) working days for discharging each cargo at
either one of the points before mentioned; after that time demurrage to be allowed by the said Henry Johnson, medical storekeeper, United States army, as per charter-party or bill of lading
of the vessel.
"In witness whereof, the undersigned have hereunto placed their
hands )nd seals the day and date above written.
EsEL.]"HE11

JOHN5Sox

"JMkd. Store-Twpcr U. S. A. Acting Med. Purvegor.
"J. W. PARISH & Co.'
Under this contract, there was delivered and paid for by the
government, at the stipulated prices, 12,768 tons of ice, about
-which there is no dispute.

[Sup. Ot.

PARISH V. UNITED STATES.

The controversy grows out of the following correspondence
and the acts of parties under it :"ASSISTA.T SURGEON-GENERAL'S OFFICE,
"ST. Louis, Mssouzi, March 25, 1863.

"Messrs. J. W. PARISH & Co.:
" GENTLEMEN,- I am instructed by the Assistant Surgeon-General to direct that the ice which you have agreed to deliver at the
points designated in your contract shall be distributed in the following quantities, viz.: "At St. Louis ...
"At Cairo ... ....
"At Memphis ...
"At Nashville ...

. 5,000 tons,

...........
...........

......
............

5,000 tons,

.......

10,000 tons,
tons,
.10,000

making the total of 30,000 which you have contracted to deliver.
The ice to be delivered at Nashville and Memphis is for the use of
the sick of the armies in the field, and should be furnished without
delay.
"Very respectfully, your
ob't servant,
"By order of the Assistant Surgeon-General :
(Sig.)

"JosEPrH B. BRowN,
"Surgeon United States Army."

A copy of this order being received at the Surgeon-General's
office, the following telegram and letter were sent to Assistant
Surgeon-General Wood: "SuRGEoN-GENEuA's OFFICE,

"March 31, 1863.
"Parish & Co. have not contracted for 30,000 tons of ice. Suspend the order you gave him.
"W'. A. HAmmoD, Surgeon--General
(Sig.)
"Col. R. C. WooD,
"Ast. Surgeon-General U. S. Army, St. Louis."
"SURGEOxr-GENERAI'S

OFFICE,

March 31, 1863.
"Si,-Your communication of the 25th instant to T. W. Parish
& Co., in regard to the quantities of ice to be delivered at the different points for which they contract, forwarded to this office for
the information of the Surgeon-General, has been received.
"I am instructed to inform you that the contract with Parish &
"WASHINGTow, D. C.,

Oct. 1879.]

PARISH V. UNITED STATES.

Co. was made for such quantities as might be needed; and that the
ice should be ordered from them, from time to time, to different
points, in lots of a few hundred tons, as needed.
"Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
"C. H. ALDEx, Assistant Surgeon, V' S. A.
"Col. R. C. Woon,
' t Asitant Surgeon-Geral,St. Louis, Mo."
"ASSISTANT

SURGEOx-GENERAL'S OPFPiCE,

"ST. Louis, Missouri, March 31, 1863.

"To J. W. PAmsH & Co. (Care C. H. Wic n & Co.),
"Chicago, Ill.:
"I am instructed by the Surgeon-General to suspend the order I
have given you till further instructions are given from him.
(Sig.)
"R. C. WooD, Asst. Surgeon-General."
In the finding of facts by the Court of Claims, it is said that
it does not appear that this last despatch was received by the
claimants, though they had knowledge of the notice by oral
information from the Assistant Surgeon-General at St. Louis, on
the second day of April.
The sixth fih-ding of faet"bf th6 Court of Claims, which is
also important, is thus stated: "CPrior to the delivery to the said Parish of Joseph B.
Brown's letter of March 25, 1863, set forth in finding V, the
said Parish had purchased for delivery under the contract sued
on 8,100 tons of ice; aud after the delivery of said letter to
him, he set about purchasing ice for delivery in pursuance of
said letter; and thereafter, ahd before he was, on the second
day of April, 1863, apprised of the aforesaid order of SurgeonGeneral Hammond, of March 31, he had purchased or contracted for the purchase of 23,000 tons of ice."
If we add to this that 10,000 tons of this latter purchase
was made at Lake Pepin, on the upper Mississippi River,
which was stored there at the time and which became a total
loss, and that the order of the Surgeon-General suspending the
order of the Assistant Surgeon-General remained in that condition and has never been revoked or modified, we have the main
elements on which the case was decided in the court below by
dismissing the claimants' petition.
The petitioners claim to recover the contract price of the

PARISH V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

entire 30,000 tons, after deducting what they have been paid
and the reonable cost of delivering the ice not received by
the government.
The opinion of the Court of Claims found in the record
bases the dismissal of the petition on the ground that the Assistant Surgeon-General, in making the order on claimants for the
80,000 tons of ice, was acting so wholly without authority, that
Parish & Co. had no right to treat it as of any validity or as
one which they were bound to regard. In the argument of
the case before us, the counsel for government abandons this
view of the matter, and, we think, very properly. We apprehend if the case were reversed, and the United States were
suing for damages incurred by a refusal of the contractors to
conform to this order, the amount specified being needed and
not forthcoming, there would be no question of the validity
of the notice of the Assistant Surgeon-General.
The office of Surgeon-General is one of the distinct or separate bureaus of the administrative service of the War Department. It has been found, in regard to many of these bureaus,
and even to the heads of departments, that it is impossible for
a single individual to perform in person all the duties imposed
on him by his office. Hence statutes have been made creating
the office of assistant secretaries for all the heads of depart.
ments.
It would be a very singular doctrine, and subversive of the
purposes for which these latter offices were created, if their
acts are to be held of no force unril ratified by the principal
secretary or head of department. It was to relieve the overburdened principal of some part of those duties that the office
of assistant was created. In the immense increase of business
in the office of Surgeoti-General during the war, similar relief
was found necessary, and the office of Assistant Surgeon-General
was created.
For the very reason that the prompt exercise of the powers
of the bureau was essential in the field of operations of the
army, the assistant in this case was located at St Louis, over a
thousand miles from the city of Washington. He was appointed for the purpose of exercising, at that place, the functions of the office of Surgeon-General. He was by law the

Ot. 1879.]

PARISH v. UNITED STATES.

Assistant Surgeon-General. If no virtue attached to hs acts
until approved by the Surgeon-General in Washington, any
inferior clerk would have answered the purpose as well. It is
not intended to deny that he was subordinate to the chief of
his bureau; could be ordered to do or not to do particular
things; and when an order made by him was disapproved, it
might be revoked by that officer.
But until so revoked or
disapproved it was valid, and parties required to act under it
had a right to rely on it.
The order of the 25th of March, made within twenty days
after the contract was signed, was an unequivocal demand,
under that instrument, that the amount of 30,000 tons, part of
an unlimited quantity which might have been required of the
contractor, should be delivered as therein directed. No one
familiar with the climate and the sources of supply could
doubt that, to enable him to fulfil this-demand, made at that
season,'required promptitude and diligence in securing the ice.
If claimants had failed to have the amount thus demanded
ready for use when required, the officers of the government
would have procured it at any price in the market, a price
which would have been enormously enhanced by this very
demand, and the claimants would have been liable for the difference between what the government paid under these circumstances and the price fixed in the agreement. They were
therefore under an imperative necessity to prepare to fulfil this
requirement.
Impelled by this necessity, the Court of Claims finds that
between the time the- received the order and the second day
of April, when they first learned of its suspension by the Surgeon-General, they purchased over 23,000 tons of ice. They
were then informed, not that the order was revoked, but that
it was suspended. It never was revoked. It remained suspended until the time during which the entire delivery was to
be made was passed; and during that time 10,000 tons of the
ice melted away at Lake Pepin, and was a total loss. As we
have already stated, 12,768 tons were delivered and paid for ;
10,000 tons perished by melting. What became of the 7,232
tons, neither received by the government nor lost at Lake
Pepin, is not disclosed by the record, nor whether claimants

PARISH V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. CL

made by selling it to others or lost by it, in that or any other
way.
What are the rights of the parties under these circumstances?
If claimants intended to treat the matter as a completed
contract to .deliver 5,000 tons at St. Louis, 5,000 at Cairo,
10,000 at Memphis, and 10,000 at Nashville, after the order of
Brown, and to hold the government to the contract price for
all those amounts, they should have delivered, or tendered,
or offered to deliver, and demanded payment.
If the order had been revoked instead of suspended, and
they intended to deny the right of the government to revoke
it, they must clearly have offered a delivery to make the government liable. Had they offered to deliver, and been in condition to deliver, or, to use the old forms of declaration, if
they had shown that they *ere ready and willing to deliver
after such revocation, it would still remain a question as to the
measure of damages, or rather, whether the government did
not have a right to countermand the order and pay for what
iA actually received, and the necessary loss of claimants from
the change of the order.
In point of fact, the order was never revoked but suspended,
so that the claimants could not tell whether it would be revoked or revived, and they never made, or offered to make,
delivery of the amount demanded by that order. The government did require, accept, and pay for part of it. The balance
was never delivered or tendered.
Without elaborating the matter, we are of opinion that, as
the claimants neither delivered or offered to deliver the remainder, they cannot recover either the contract price or the
profits they might have made if they had done so. And as the
government left the demand suspended, so that while claimants were compelled to purchase under the original order, and
could not safely dispose of it while it remained unrevoked,
they are entitled to recover what they paid for the ice that
was lost, and what expense they were at in making the purchase and in keeping it until it was lost. So if they lost
any thing on the other ice not purchased at Lake Pepin, but
purchased before they learned of the order of suspension, they
should recover that.

Oct. 1879.]

PARISH V. UNITED STATES.

Bullcley v. United States (19 Wall. 37) is an analogous
case. Bulkley had contracted to do all the transportation of
supplies from Fort Leavenworth to army posts further west
which might be required of him by the government. He was
notified that 1,700,000 pounds would be needed, and made
large preparations to meet this requirement. The United
States did not need half this amount, and the freight was not
delivered to him. He claimed the profits which he would have
made by the terms of the contract if the freight had been delivered and carried. This court said he could not recover
profits, but that, "in making ready to meet the requirements
of the notice, he was subjected to the loss of time, to trouble
and expense. Hb is entitled to be paid accordingly."
We think the case before us comes within that principle.
Claimants are entitled to the expenses and losses incident to
the preparation to meet the demand of the notice served on
them. The cost of the ice purchased at Lake Pepin and lost,
the expense bestowed upon its care, and the time and expense
of making that purchase, and any sim actually lost in regard
to the other 7,232 tons of ice purchased to enable them to
meet that requirement, must form the measure of plaintiffs'
recovery. Because these are not found by the Court of Claims,
the judgment of that court will be reversed and the case remanded, that their damages may be ascertained and judgment
rendered accordingly; and it is
So ordered.

