RICHER v. PowErL.

[Sup. Ct.

dently made, as the one in this case evidently was, at any time
before final hearing and judgment.
There is an additional reason for sending the case back, - that
the evidence as to the abandonment of the homestead of the
plaintiff is very unsatisfactory, and leaves great doubt on our
minds whether the conclusion reached by the court below on
this point was correct. We do not think that a homestead can
be considered as abandoned because occupied by tenants, and
the owner is temporarily residing elsewhere. According to the
decisions of the Supreme Court of Texas, it would appear that,
in order to work a forfeiture of the right to the homestead, the
owner's cessation of occupancy must be with an intention of
total relinquishment, shown by clear and decisive circumstances.
The trifling sum at which the premises were suffered to be
struck off would seem to indicate that at the sale little confidence was felt in the validity of the title which would be acquired. On the rehearing, this matter will receive a more full
and careful consideration.
The judgment will be reversed, and the cause remanded with
directions to the court below to allow the plaintiff to amend
his petition, or bill of complaint, 9s he now designates it, and
to strike out of the answer of the defendant his prayer for the
possession of the premises and the value of the rents and profits; and it is
So ordered.

RiICKER v. PowELL.
Upon a bill of foreclosure against A. and the parties to whom, after mortgaging the land, he respectively conveyed separate parcels thereof, at different
times, the only question raised was as to the order in which the court should
direct the parcels to be sold to satisfy the debt. From the decree rendered
June 5, 1875, finding the sum due, and prescribing such order, B., one of the
defendants, appealed. The decree was affirmed. Thereupon C., another defendant, filed a petition below, May 21, 1879, for leave to file a bill of review
for alleged errors of law, being the same as those passed upon by this court
on the appeal, and for newly discovered evidence; but, although the decree
was in full force, he neither offered to pay the same or any part thereof, nor
alleged any reason for not doing so. Held, that leave to file the bill rested
in the discretion of the court below, and was properly refused.

Ot. 1879.]

RICKER V. POWELL.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Submitted on printed arguments by .Mr. Melville W. Fuller
and Mr. TF. (Y. oudg for the appellant, and by Hr. Edward
S. Is/tam, Mir. Julius Rosenthal, and Mr. A. -1!. Pence for the
appellee.

MIr. CnI
JUSTiCE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is an appeal from an order of the Circuit Court refusing
the appellant leave to file a bill of review in that court. The
facts are as follows: On the 8th of April, 1869, one H. H. Walker mortgaged to
Powell, the appellee, the N. E. -4of the S. W. I see. 5, T. 38,
N. R. 14 E., forty acres, to secure a note for $40,500, payable
twelve months after date, with interest at the rate of ten per
cent per annum. The land was afterwards subdivided into
blocks, and sold and conveyed at different times to different
On the 23d of July, 1874, Powell filed a bill
purchasers.
in equity in the Circuit Court for the Northern District of
Illinois to foreclose this mortgage, making all persons parties
who held title to the land under conveyances by the mortgagor. Among other parties were the appellant, Ricker, as
owner of block No. 14; one Orvis, as owner of the south one
hundred feet of block No. 16; and Rogers, Greenbaum, & Foreman, having a claim, by way of mortgage or deed of trust, on
the north two hundred and one feet of block 16. Ricker,
in his answer, claimed that his block 14 should not be sold
until after block 18 and the two portions of block 16, above
described, had been exhausted. The several questions presented were litigated between the defendants, there being no
defence as against Powell, the mortgagee; and on the 5th of
June, 1875, a decree was rendered finding due him the sum
of .$14,853.33, and establishing his lien on the whole forty
acres, but directing that the property be sold in the following order, to wit: 1. The north two hundred and one feet of
block 16, subject to the claim thereon of Rogers, Greenbaum,
& Foreman. 2. The south one hundred feet of block 16.

RICKER V.

POWELL.

[Sup. OL

8. Block 14. 4. The interest of Rogers, Greenbaum, & Foreman in the north two hundred and one feet of block 16. The
estate of Greenbaum and others was not defined in the decree,
but in their answer it was described as a deed of trust to
Rogers, executed by one Kinney, to secure a note of $12,000
given to Samuel J. Walker, bearing date Nov. 25, 1872, payable three years after date, with interest at the rate of eight
per cent per annum, and owned by Greenbaum and Foreman.
From this decree Orvis, as owner of the south one hundred
feet of block 16, appealed to this court, and the case was docketed here Sept. 23, 1875. The appeal came on for hearing at
the last term, and the errors assigned were, in substance, that
block 18 and the north two hundred and one feet of block 16,
without any reservation in favor of Greenbaum and others,
should have been sold before the south one hundred feet of
block 16. Ricker did not appeal, but he appeared by counsel
and filed a brief on the hearing of the appeal of Orvis. Early
in the term the decree of the Circuit Court was affirmed, so
far as the order of the sale was concerned. Orvis v. Powell,
98 U. S. 176. Later, a rehearing was granted and further
arguments filed, but on the second hearing the same decree of
affirmance was entered. The final mandate was sent down
from here May 15, 1879, and on the 21st of the same month
Ricker petitioned the Circuit Court for leave to file a bill of
review, on the ground of errors of law apparent on the face
of the record, and which are the same as those presented in
this court on the appeal of Orvis; on the ground of fraud and
surprise in the entry of the original decree, he having been
led to suppose that the decree would be entered for the sale
of the north two hundred and one feet of block 16,'without
any reservation in favor of Greenbaum and others, and not
knowing that any thing had been done to the contrary until
he got the printed record in December, 1877, or January,
1878, when it was too late for him to appeal; and also on the
ground of having discovered, since the original decree, evidence
to show that hen he, Ricker, bought block 14, the mortgagor
was the owner of the note now held by Greenbaum and Foreman, and that he did not transfer it until September or October, 1873, and then only as collateral security for an antecedent

Oct. 1879.]

RICKER v. POWELL.

debt which he owed of $9,000 or $9,500. No offer was made
to perform the decree, so far as Powell was concerned, and the
decree itself still remains unsatisfied.
Upon this showing the Circuit Court refused leave to file
the bill of review, and this appeal from that refusal has been
taken.
Without intending to decide that an appeal will lie to this
court from an order of the Circuit Court refusing leave to file
,bill of review for newly discovered matter, we are satisfied
the refusal in this case was right. There is no dispute with
Powell either as to the amount due him or as to his right to
have the mortgaged property sold. The only controversies in
the case are between the defendants as to the order in which
their respective intefests in the property shall be subjected.
In these controversies Powell has no concern. His security
is ample, and it is of no importance how he gets the money,
which is his due, provided he gets it. He has already been
kept out of it nearly five years because of the disputes between
the different parties in interest as to their rights as between
themselves. The delay thus far he has been compelled to
submit to, becaffse the parties were entitled to what was done
as a matter of right. Now, however, they are asking a favor,
for a bill of review on the ground of newly discovered matter can only be filed on special leave, which depends on the
sound discretion of the court to w ich the application is made.
Thonas v. ifarvie's Heirs, 10 Wheat. 146; Bubber Company v.
Goodyear, 9 Wall. 805 ; Story, Eq. P1. 421 c; 2 Dniell, Ch.
Pr. (4th ed.) 1577. " It may be refused, although the facts,
if admitted, would change the decree, when the court, looking to all the circumstances, shall -deem it productive of mischief to innocent parties, or for any other cause, unadvisable."
Story, Eq. Pl., sect. 4 17 ; Griggs v. Gear, 8 Ill. 2.
As the decree stands, a very considerable portion of the
mortgaged property must be sold before that of Ricker can
be reached. If that sells for eno'ugh to pay the debt, the
bill of review would be unnecessary. What it actually is
worth, or what it will be likely to bring at the sale, nowhere appears.
The rule is well settled, subject, however, to some excep-

RICKER V. POWELL.

[Sup. Ct.

tions, that "before a bill of review ... can be filed the decree

must be first obeyed and performed .... Thus, if money is
directed to be paid, it ought to be paid before the bill of review
is filed; though it may afterwards be ordered to be refunded."
2 Dan. Ch.Pr. (4th ed.) 1582; Story, Eq. PI., sect. 406. Chancellor Kent thus states the rule and the reason of it in Wiser
v. Blacldy, 2 Johns. Ch. 488: "In the first place, the party
asking for a bill of review must generally show that he has
performed the decree; especially if it be . . .a decree for the

payment of money, and he must likewise pay the costs, and
nothing will excuse the party from this duty but evidence of
his inability to perform it. Williams v. 3Iellish, 1 Vern. 117;
Fitton v. 2acelesfield, id. 264 ; Cooper, Eq. P1. 90; Note to
Bishop of Durham v. Liddell, 2 Bro. P. C. 68. This appears
to be a settled rule, laid down both in the ancient and modern
books; but the petitioners have paid no attention to this rule,
for there is no offer to perform any part of the decree or even
to bring the money into court, or any pretext of poverty, want
of assets, or other inability to do it. There is wisdom in the
establishment of such a provision, and it ought to be duly enforced. Its object is to prevent abuse in the administration
of justice, by filing of bills of review for delay and vexation,
or otherwise protracting the litigation, to the discouragement
and distress of the adverse party." These words of this learned
chancellor are peculiarly applicable to the facts of this case.
The decree, so far as Powell is concerned, is for money, and
that it be paid to him. There is no pretence of any performance of this decree, or any offer to perform. The money is all
due, and ought to be paid. The effort on the part of Ricker
is to increase the liability of the first piece of property to be
sold not with any view to protect the interests of Powell, but
on lhis own. Orvis, whose property stands second in the
o4ie¢ of sale, is in no position now to insist that the interest
of Greenbaum and Foreman should be sold before his property,
because that question was settled here on his appeal. The
dispute now is between Greenbaum and Foreman and Ricker
as to whether iheir property or his should be sold first. The
true way is to let the sale go on according to the decree until
the property of Ricker is reached. Then let him pay Powell

Oct. 1879.]

O .OKER v. POWELL.

the balance remaining due, and, if he chooses and can get the
necessary leave, file his bill -of review to reverse that part of
the decr~e which puts the sale of the interest of Greenbaum
and Foreman after his, and thereby charge what he may be
compelled to pay on them instead of himself. He makes no
such offer in his bill, and fails entirely to give any reason why
he does not. Clearly, under these circumstances, he was not
entitled to the leave he asked, and his petition was properly
denied.
It is contended, however, that the right to file a bill of review can only be denied when the bill is for newly discovered
matter alone, and that as this bill is for errors of law, as well
as newly discovered matter, the refusal of leave was equivalent
to the denial of a strict legal right, which did not in any manner depend on the discretion of the court. The proposition
may, with equal propriety, be stated the other way, to wit,
that the right to file a bill of review without leave exists only
when the bill is brought for error of law alone, and as this bill
is for newly discovered matter as well as error of law, it can
only be filed on leave, wbich rests in the sound discretion of
the court. The application was for leave to file the bill as a
whole, and not in parts; and if as a whole it required leave, the
part which, if it stood alone, could be put on file without, must
stand or fall with the incumbrances that have been attached to
it. This bill, as a whole, could only be filed with leave, and
consequently as Ricker has, by the form of proceedings adopted,
voluntarily waived his strict legal right to file for errors of law
without leave, he must abide.tfhe rules applicable to cases -where
leave is required.
As to the errors of law assigned, the bill is evidently bad,
because the decree was rendered more than two years before
the petition for leave to file was presented (Thomas v. Harvie's
.Hers,supra); but there is nothing now to prevent Ricker from
asking leave to file another bill for the newly discovered matter, if he performs the decree as to Powell. Or he may wait
until the property has been sold, which by the decree must be
subjected before his, and then, on paying the balance remaining due, apply for leave to bring in the newly discovered evidence against Greenbaum and Foreman, and have their rights

ELASTIC FABRICS CO. V. SMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

determined according to the facts as they shall thus be made
to appear. But however that may be, upon the application
as made below the leave was properly refused, and the decree
to that effect is consequently
Afflrmed.

ELASTIC FABRIcs ComANY v. Smm.
1. Where letters-patent expired before the final determination of the suit brought
by the patentee complaining of the infringement of them, and praying for
an injunction and an account, and the court below, by its decree, sustained
their validity and awarded him costs, but neither damages nor profits, and
the defendant appealed, this court, as the only question now involved is that
of costs, affirms the decree without examining the merits.
2. Where such letters had been reissued in separate divisions, and the patentee
filed in the Patent Office a disclaimer in regard to one of them, after
bringing a suit for the infringement of the others, the validity of which
was sustained, and the fact of infringement found by the court below, Hdd, that sect. 4922, Rev. Stat., has no application to the case, and that he
is entitled to costs.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of IMlassachusetts.
This is a bill in equity, filed Nov. 19, 1868, by William Smith
against the Glendale Elastic Fabrics Company, wherein he
alleges that he is the original and first inventor of certain new
and useful improvements in corded and elastic fabrics, for whicl
letters-patent of the United States No. 9653, dated April 5,
1853, were, in due form, issued to him ; that the letters, after
they were extended, March 28, 1867, for seven years, were
finally reissued in three parts,- reissue No. 2848, Jan. 14,
1868, division A, for improvements in weaving; reissue 3014,
June 00, 1868, division B, for improvements in woven fabrics;
and reissue No. 2844, Jan. 14, 1868, division 0, for improvements in looms for weaving; that the company has infringed
the rights secured to him by divisions A and 0. He therefore
prays for an injunction and an account.
The company denies the allegations of the bill as to novelty
and infringement, and claims that the reissues were illegal.

