Oct-. 1879.]

COWELL V. SPRINGS Co.

that the decisions upon which this court had relied were made
under peculiar circumstances, and were never in the State
considered as fully settling the construction of the act. This
court, therefore, overruled its former two decisions, and followed the later construction adopted by the State court. See
also Seydam v. Williamson, 24 How. 427. With much more
reason may we change our decision construing a State Constitution when no rights have been acquired under it, and when
it is made to appear that before the decision was made the
highest tribunal of the State had interpreted the Constitution
differently, when that interpretation within the State fixed a
rule of property, and has never been abandoned. In such
a case, we think it our duty to follow the State courts, 6nd
adopt as the true construction that which those courts have
declared.
The judgment of the Circuit Court will be reversed, and the
record remitted with instructions to give judgment for the
plaintiff below on the findings made; and it is
Sqo ordered.

COWELL v. SPRINGS COAMANY.
1. A condition in a deed conveying land thkat intoxicating liquors shall never be
manufactured, sold, or otherwise disposed of as a beverage in any place of
public resort thereon, and that if this condition be broken by the grantee,
his assigns or legal representatives, the deed shall become null and void,
and the title to the premises revert to the grantor, is not repugnant to the
c-tate granted, nor is it unlawful or against public policy.
2. Upon breach of the condition, the grantor has a right to treat the estate as
having reverted, and, under a statute of Colorado, can maintain ejectment
without a previous entry or a demand.
3. In such a suit, the grantee is estopped from denying the validity of the title
conveyed by the deed whereunder lie took possession of the land.
4. When a patent hsued by the United States adds to the name oe the patentee
the word "trustee," without mention of any trust upon which he is to hold
the land, such addition does not prevent the legal title from passing by the
patentee's conveyance. If a trust be in fact created, it is for the cestui que
trust, and no one else, to complain of the non-execution thereof.
5. By the general comity which, in the absence of positive direction to the con-

COWELL V. SPRINGS CO.

[Sup. 0t.

trary, obtains through the States and Territories of the United States, corporations created in one State or Territory are permitted to carry on any
lawful business in another, and to acquire, hold, and transfer property there
equally as individuals.
6. When a corporation is authorized by statute to hold real property necespary
to enable it to carry on its business, the inquiry whether any particular
real property is necessary for that business is a matter between the State
and the corporation, which does not concern third parties.

EnRRon to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Colorado.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. H. C. Alleman for the plaintiff in error.
llfr. F. W. Pitkin for the defendant in error.
MR. JUSTI E FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

In.May, 1878, the plaintiff in the court below, the Colorado
Springs Company, sold and conveyed to the defendant, Cowell,
two parcels of land, situated in the town of Colorado Springs,
in the then Territory of Colorado. The deed of conveyance
stated that the consideration of its execution was $250, and an
agreement between the parties that intoxicating liquors should
never be manufactured, sold, or otherwise disposed of as a beverage in any place of public resort on the premises. And it
-was expressly declared that in case this condition was broken
by the grantee, his assigns or legal representatives, the deed
should become null and void, and the title to the premises conveyed should revert to the grantor; and that the grantee in
accepting the deed agreed to this condition. The defendant
went into possession of the premises under the deed, and soon
afterwards opened a billiard saloon in a building thereon,
which became a place of public resort, where he sold and disposed of intoxicating liquors as a beverage. The grantor thereupon brought the present action of ejectment for the possession
of the premises, the title to which, it claimed, had reverted to
it upon breach of the condition contained in its deed; and it
recovered judgment. It does not appear that the company had
made any previous entry upon the premises or any demand for
their possession.
The principal questions, therefore, for our determination are
the validity of the condition, and, on its breach, the right of

Oct. 1879.]

COWELL v. SPRINQ$ CO.

the plaintiff to maintain the action without previous entry or
demand of possession.
The validity of the condition is assailed by the defendant as
repfignant to the estate conveyed. His contention is, that as
the granting words of the deed purport to transfer the land,
and the entire interest of the company therein, he took the
property in absolute ownership, with liberty to use it in any
lawful manner which he might choose. With such use the
condition is inconsistent, and he therefore insists that it is
repugnant to the estate granted. But the answer is, that the
owner of property has a right to dispose of it with a limited
restriction on its use, however much the restriction may affect
the value or the nature of the estate. Repugnant conditions
are those which tend to the utter subversion of the estater-such
as prohibit entirely the alienation or use of the property.
Conditions which prohibit its alienation to particular persons
or for a limited period, or its subjection to particular uses, are
not subversive of the estate: they do not destroy or limit its
alienable or inheritable character. Sheppard's Touchstone,
129, 131. The reports are full of cases where conditions imposing restrictions upon the uses- to which property conveyed
in fee may be subjected have been upheld. In this way
slaughter-houses, soap-factories, distilleries, livery-stables, tanneries, and machine-shops have, in a multitude of instances,
been excluded from particular localities, which, thus freed from
unpleasant sights, noxious vapors, or disturbing noises, have
become desirable as places for residences of families. To hold
that conditions for their exclusion from premises conveyed are
inoperative, would defeat numerous arrangements in our large
cities for the health and comfort of whole neighborhoods.
The condition in the deed of the plaintiff against the manufactue or the sale of intoxicating liquors as a beverage at any
place of public resort on the premises, was, not' ubversive of
the estate conveyed. It left the estate alienable and inheritable,
and free to be subjected to other uses. It was not unlawful
nor against public policy, but, on the contrary, it was imposed
in the interest of public health and morality.
A condition in a deed, not materially different from that
under consideration here, was held valid and not repugnant to

COWELL V. SPRINGS Co.

[Sup. Or.

the grant by the Court of Appeals of New York in Plumb v.
Tubbs, 41 N. Y. 442. And a similar condition was held by
the Supreme Court of Kansas to be a valid condition subsequent,
upon the continued observance of which the estate conveyed
depended. 14 Kan. 61. See also Doe v. Keeling, 1 Mau. &
Sel. 95, and Gray v. Blanchard, 8 Pick. (Mass.) 283.
We have no doubt that the condition in the deed to the
defendant here is valid and not repugnant to the estate conveyed. It is a condition subsequent, and upon its breach the
company had a right to treat the estate as having reverted to
it, and bring ejectment for the premises. A previous entry
upon the premises, or a demand for their possession, was not
necessary. By statute in Colorado it is sufficient for the
plaintiff in ejectment to show a right to the possession of the
demanded premises at the commencement of the action as heir,
devisee, purchaser, or otherwise. The commencement of the
action there stands in lieu of entry and demand of possession.
See also Austin v. CambridgeportParish,21 Pick. (Mass.) 215;
_
v. Bock Island,
Cornelius v. Ivins, 2 Dutch. (N. J.) 376; Buc
97 U. S.693.
The other objections urged to the title of the plaintiff are
equally untenable. It seems that its title is derived through
mesne conveyances from one Lamborn, to whom, in September,
1870, a patent of the United States was issued embracing the
demanded premises. This patent adds to Lamborn's name the
word "trustee," without mention of any trust upon which he
is to hold the property. It is therefore contended that he
must be considered as holding it for some undeclared use of the
grantor, and that consequently he could not convey it without
the consent or direction of the latter, in this case the government. But the answer to this position is given in the patent
itself, by the recital that the land was purchased by the patentee
of the government, thus negativing the inference that the latter
retained any interest in the property or advanced the purchasemoney. And besides, if any trust was in fact created, it was
for the cestui que trust, and no one else, to complain of the
action of the patentee and enforce the trust: it did not prevent
the legal title from passing by his conveyance. Perry, Trusts,
sect. 334.

Oct. 1879.]

COWELL V. SPRINGS, Co.

In March, 1872, the patentee conveyed the premises to the
National Land Improvement Company of El Paso County,
Colorado, a corporation created under the laws of Pennsylvania,
with power to receive, hold, and grant real and personal property ; explore, locate, and improve lands ; transport emigrants
and merchandise; construct houses and buildings; manufacture, trade, and traffic; colonize, organize, and form settlements;
operate nhiineral and other lands, and improve and work the
same, provided such lands be located in Utah, Arizona, or adjoining States and Territories lying west of the Mississippi;
and to do such acts as should be necessary to promote the success of the corporation and the public good. The defendant
contends that this corporation, invested with these extensive
powers to settle up the country and advance its own interests
and the public welfare, had not the capacity to act in the Territory of Colorado, and to hold and convey real property there.
By the law of March 2, 1867, then in force, the legislatures of
the several Territories of the country were prohibited from
granting private charters, and were only authorized to create
by general law corporations for mining, manufacturing, and
other industrial pursuits. 14 Stat. 426. His position is that
Congress intended to prevent the creation of corporations like
this one of Pennsylvania, as the extensive powers granted to
it tended to monopolize landed estates for purposes of speculation, and thereby injure the agricultural, mining, and manufacturing interests of the country; and if a domestic corporation
could not be created with such powers for reasons of public
policy, a foreign corporation could not for like reasons be permitted to exercise them in the Territory. The answer to this
position is found in the general comity which, in the absence
of positive direction to the contrary, obtains through the States
and Territories of the United States, by which corporations
created in one State or Territory are permitted to carry on any
lawful business in another State and Territory, and to acquire,
hold, and transfer property there equally as individuals. If
the policy of the State or Territory does not permit the business of the foreign corporation in its limits, or allow the corporation to acquire or hold real prQperty, it must be expressed
in some affirmative way; it cannot be inferred from the fact

COWELL V. SPRINGS 00.

[Sup. Ot.

that its legislature has made no provision for the fortiation of
similar corporations, or allows corporations to be formed only
by general law. Telegraph companies did business in several
States before their legislatures had created or authorized the
creation of similar corporations; ahd numerous corporations
existing by special charter in one State are now engaged, without question, in business in States where the creation of corporations by special enactment is forbidden.
The National Land and Improvement Company, the day
following the receipt of the deed of Lombard, conveyed the
premises to the plaintiff, the Colorado Springs Company.
This company was incorporated in 1871 for the purpose of
aiding, encouraging, and inviting immigration to the Territory,
and to purchase, hold, and dispose of lands, town lots, mineral
springs, and other property; also to construct and operate
ditches, wagon-roads, and railroads, and mills for manufacturing
lumber, and generally to do all things authorized by the laws
of the Territory which might tend to accomplish the purposes
stated. At that time the legislature was restricted, as already
mentioned, in its power to create by general law corporations.
It was not empowered to authorize the forrnation of companies
to aid and encourage immigration, and for that purpose to
take, possess, and convey real property in the Territory.
Therefore the defendant contends that the company could not
acquire a right to the premises in controversy. But the
answer to this position is, that, for some of the purposes deignated in the articles of incorporation, the law in existence
authorized the incorporation of companies; therefore .the incorporation here was not wholly illegal: a corporate body
competent to exercise some of the powers mentioned was
created, and under the statute of the Territory could acquire
and hold or convey, by deed or otherwise, any real or personal
estate whatever, necessary to enable it to carry on its business.
Whether the particular premises in controversy are necessary
for that business is not important; that is a matter between
the government of the State, succeeding that of the Territory,
ani the corporation, and is no concern of the defendant. It
would create great inconveniences and embarrassments if, in
actions by corporations to recover the possession of their real

Oct. 1879.]

EmiGRINT

CO. v. COUNTY ,OF ADAMS.

61

property, an investigation was permitted into the necessity of
such property for the purposes of their incorporation, and the
title made to rest upon the proof of that necessity. Natoma
Water and lisning Co. v. Qlarkin, 14 Cal. 552.
But there is another and general answer to this objection.
The defendant, as already stated, went into possession of the
premises in controversy under the deed of the plaintiff. He
took his title from the company, with a condition that if he
manufactured or sold intoxicating liquors, to be used as a
beverage, at any place of public resort on the premises, the
title should revert to his grantor; and he is therefore estopped,
when sued by the grantor for the premises, upon breach of
the condition, from denying the corporate existence of the
plaintiff, or the validity of the title conveyed by its deed.
Upon obvious principles, he cannot be permitted to retain the
property which he received upon condition that it should be
restored to his grantor on a certain contingency, by denying,
when the contingency has happened, that his grantor ever had
any right to it. Gill v. Pauntleroy,8 B. Mon. (Ky.) 185; Miller v. Stackleford, 4 Dana (Ky.), 287, 288; Fitch v. Baldwin,
17 Johns. (N. Y.) 161.
Judgment affirmed.

EXIGRAN1T CO MN

V. Coux~ OF Awuis.

1. Though the grant by the act of Congress of Sept. 28, 1850 (9 Stat. 519), of the
swamp and overflowed lands to the States in which they lie, is declared tck
be made for the exclusive purpose of enabling such States, with the proceeds thereof, to reclaim the lands ly means of levees and drains, it is
questionable whether the security for the due application of the proceeds
does not wholly rest upon the good faith of the several States, and whether
they may not exercise their discretion in this behalf without being liable
to be called to account, and without affecting the title to the lands: at
all events, it seems that Congress alone has the power, in a clear case of
violation of the trust, to enforce the conditions of the grant, by revocation
or otherwise; and since, by t~ie act, the proceeds are to be applied to the
designated purposes only "as far as necessary" each State has, at least,
a large discretion as to the "necessity" of employing the proceeds to the
reclamation of the lands.
2. A grant, subject to the conditions of that act, made by a State of its swamp

