ELASTIC FABRICS CO. V. SMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

determined according to the facts as they shall thus be made
to appear. But however that may be, upon the application
as made below the leave was properly refused, and the decree
to that effect is consequently
Afflrmed.

ELASTIC FABRIcs ComANY v. Smm.
1. Where letters-patent expired before the final determination of the suit brought
by the patentee complaining of the infringement of them, and praying for
an injunction and an account, and the court below, by its decree, sustained
their validity and awarded him costs, but neither damages nor profits, and
the defendant appealed, this court, as the only question now involved is that
of costs, affirms the decree without examining the merits.
2. Where such letters had been reissued in separate divisions, and the patentee
filed in the Patent Office a disclaimer in regard to one of them, after
bringing a suit for the infringement of the others, the validity of which
was sustained, and the fact of infringement found by the court below, Hdd, that sect. 4922, Rev. Stat., has no application to the case, and that he
is entitled to costs.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of IMlassachusetts.
This is a bill in equity, filed Nov. 19, 1868, by William Smith
against the Glendale Elastic Fabrics Company, wherein he
alleges that he is the original and first inventor of certain new
and useful improvements in corded and elastic fabrics, for whicl
letters-patent of the United States No. 9653, dated April 5,
1853, were, in due form, issued to him ; that the letters, after
they were extended, March 28, 1867, for seven years, were
finally reissued in three parts,- reissue No. 2848, Jan. 14,
1868, division A, for improvements in weaving; reissue 3014,
June 00, 1868, division B, for improvements in woven fabrics;
and reissue No. 2844, Jan. 14, 1868, division 0, for improvements in looms for weaving; that the company has infringed
the rights secured to him by divisions A and 0. He therefore
prays for an injunction and an account.
The company denies the allegations of the bill as to novelty
and infringement, and claims that the reissues were illegal.

Oct. 1879.]

ELASTIC FABRICS 00. V. SMITH.

Smith, Jan. 22, 1870, filed in the Patent Office a disclaimer
alleging that the specifications and claims of division B are too
broad, and include that whereof he is not the inventor.
The court below, on the cause being set down for hearing,
adjudged that the letters as reissued in division A and division 0 were valid; that Smith was the original and first inventor-of the improvements therein described; that he recover
of the company the profits received or made by it from the
use, manufacture, or sale of the patented improvement; that
a master takie and report an account of such profits; and that
an injunction be awarded.
The master reported that the company had made no profits,
and the court, Jan. 27, 1876, passed a decree against the company for costs of suit. The company thereupon appealed.
Mr. BenJamin .Deu,i for the appellant.
Ir. B. P. Lowe for the appellee.
MR. Cain JUSTiCE WArrE. delivered the opinion of the
court.
For all practical purposes, except costs, the appellant was
successful in the court below. While the validity of the appellee's patent was sustained, it was a fruitless victory to him,
because the patent expired before the determination of the
suit, and the court found that he was not entitled to recover
from the appellant either profits or damages. As the decree
stands, it sustains an expired patent, and does no more. When
it was rendered against him, the appellant was left at liberty to
use the patented machine in any way he chose, and he has not
been required to pay any thing for the use he made of it while
the patent was in force. The appeal, therefore, presents only
a moot case except as to costs.
We think the disclaimer as to the reissued patent, division
B, had no effect on the costs in this case, because the question
presented for decision was whether, notwithstanding that disclaimer, the other divisions of the reissue should be sustained.
The statute as to costs after a disclaimer (Rev. Stat., sect.
4922), therefore, has no application to this suit, and the appeal
is practically reduced to the single question whether, if the
decree below should be reversed, the appellee ought to have

RAILROAD CO.

v.

TRooK.

[Sup. t

his costs in that court, and, if so, bow much. No appeal lies
from a mere decree respecting costs and expenses. Canter
v. The American and Ocean Insurance Companies, 3 Pet. 307.
As this case comes within the reason of that rule, we affirm
the decree below without examining the merits.
Decree affirmed

RAILROAD ComiPAINY v. TRoOr.
Where a judgment for the recovery of money, affirmed in the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia, is brought here for re-examination, the amount
thereof, without adding interest or costs, determines the value of "the matter
in dispute," under the act of Feb. 25, 1879 (20 Stat. 320), and, if it does not
exceed $2,600, this court has no jurisdiction.

MOTION to dismiss a writ of error to the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia.
Trook, in an action in the court below against the Baltimore
and Potomac Railroad Company, recovered judgment, Feb. 19,
1877, for $4,000 and costs of suit. A motion for a new trial was
then made on exceptions taken during the progress of the cause,
and on account of excessive damages. Trook entered a remittitur of $1,500, and the judgment-was ultimately affirmed at a
hearing in general term. The company then removed the case
here by writ of error, which Trook moves to dismiss, on the
ground that this c6urt, under the act of Feb. 25,1879 (20 Stat.
320), has no jurisdiction, as the "matter in dispute exclusive
of costs" does not exceed "the value of $2,500."
11r. James G. Payne in support of the motion.
Mr. Enoch Totten, contra.
MR. C=F
JuSTIoE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
In cases .brought he -by writ of error for -the re-examination of judgments i-of :affirmance in the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia, ihe" value of the matter in dispute is
determined by the judgment affirmed without .adding interest

