VICKSBURG v. TOBIN.

[Sup. Ot

duties of tonnage within the meaning of the Federal Constitution.
What has been said renders it unnecessary to consider any
other question presented in argument.
To avoid misapprehension, it is, perhaps, well to say that we
express no opinion as to the validity of any of the provisions
of the city charter or ordinances except such as have direct
reference to the case before us. We restrict our decision to
the single point that the city was not prohibited by the Federal
Constitution from collecting the wharfage fees in question as
reasonable compensation for the use of its wharves by the plaintiff inerror.
Judgment affirmed.

VICKSBURG

v.

TOBIN.

"A L
1. The ordinance of the city of Vicksburg passed July 12, 1865, entitled
ordinance establishing the rate of wharfage to be collected from steamboats
and other water-craft landing and lying at the City of Vicksburg," is not
in conflict with the Constitution of the United States.
2. Packet Company v.St. Louis (supra, p. 423), affirmed.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Mississippi.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
.7fr.Philip Phillips, for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. WV. B. Pittman, contra.
AIR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

This writ of error involves the constitutional validity of an
ordinance of the city of Vicksburg, passed July 12, 1865, entitled "An ordinance establishing the rate of wharfage to be
collected from steamboats and other water-craft, landing an]
lying at the city of Vicksburg."
The ordinance declares that all steamboats "landing at this
[that] city" shall pay wharfage at the following rates: All
packets terminating their trips at the city, per veek, $10; all
steamboats knder 1,000 tons burthen, passing and repassing,

Oct. 1879.]

VICKSBURG

v.

TOBIN.

for each landing, $10;'and, for each one exceeding 1,000 tons,
51 for every 100 tons excess; circus or exhibition boats, $5 per
day.
The ordinance further provides that, if the captain or officer
in command of any steamboat or water-craft shall refuse to
comply with its provisions, on conviction thereof he shall be
charged $100 for each landing thereafter, until the settlement
of the litigated claim.
Within the six years iinmnediately preceding the commencenient of this action, the city of Vicksburg collected from the
defendants in error (without protest or objection on their part,
although they knew the rates established by the city) the sum
of $5,400, "for, and on account," as the special verdict of the
jury recites, "of wharfage for the landing of plaintiffs' [defendants in error] boats at the city landing of Vicksburg on the
Mississippi, plaintiffs' boats being at the time engaged in the
coasting trade on said river, between New Orleans and Vicksburg, and other ports above Vicksburg."
This action was instituted to recover from the city the sums
thus exacted from the defendants in error. Judgment upon the
special verdict of the jury was rendered against the city, to
reverse -which this writ of error is prosecuted.
It appeared, upon tb e trial in the Circuit Court, that the corporation of Vicksburg has been the riparian owner of the city
landing, on account of which these charges were made, since
1851; that the former owner uniformly collected wharfage from
steamboats stopping at said landing up to 1851, and that the city
had done the sane ever since that date, but at higher rates; that
the landing is comprised in a river-front in the city, covering a
length of about eighteen hundred feet between high and lowwater mark ; that the landing is worth $50,000, in the repair
and improvement of which the city had expended, within the
six years preceding the trial, $40,000; that the only improve.
ment made by the city at the landing was the grading and piling of the bank to prevent caving; that, although the landing
was not paved or covered with plank, it was a good landing in
dry weather, but too muddy in wet weather to use as a place
of deposit for freight; that the annual net receipts by the city
from the use of the landiig did not exceed $11,500; that the

432

VICMSBURG

v. ToBIN

[Sup. Ct.

wharf and harbor-master demanded and received from each
boat stopping at the city landing $10, and no more, without
reference to the tonnage of the boat or the time it lay at the
landing.
It was also in evidence that, during the whole period for
which collections were made from defendants in error, the
Merchants' Wharf-boat Association had a wharf-boat lying at
the city landing, and, for the privilege of occupying the space
necessary therefor, had paid the city $2,000 per annum; that,
during that period, the boats of the defendants iii error had
touched the city landing only about twenty times, upon all
other occasions landing against or fastening to the boat of the
Merchants' Association.
The record discloses other facts; -but they do not seem to be
material in the determination of the case.
The judgment rests mainly upon the ground that the ordinance by virtue of which the money sued for was demanded
and collected was in conflict, as well with the clause of the
Constitution of the United States conferring upon Congress
the power to regulate commerce among the States, as with
the clause inhibiting the States from laying duties of tonnage.
This question is disposed of by the opinion just rendered in
Packet Company v. St. Louis, supra,p. 423. It is, in substance,
the same question as that decided in Packet Company v. K~eokuk, 95 U. S. 80. The latter case had not been determined in
this court, when the judgment now complained of was rendered. Here, as in the cases concerning the ordinances of
Keokuk and St. Louis, the sums sued for were exacted and received as wharfage-fees by way of compensation for the use of
an improved wharf, purchased and maintained by a municipal
corporation at tts own dost, for the benefit of commerce and
navigation. They were not exacted for the mere privilege of
entering or remaining in or departing from the port of Vicksburg. The ordinance in question does not, therefore, entrench
upon the power of Congress to regulate commerce among the
States, fior does it lay a duty of tonnage in the sense of the
Constitution.
It is coniended that this ordinance, in explicit language,
imposes a tax for merely landing at the city, and points on the

Oct. 1879.]

VICKSBURG

v. TOBIN.

shore where there may have been in fact no wharf. If the
ordinance was susceptible of that construction, a question
would be presented for our determination altogether different
from the one before us. Clearly, the city could not collect
wharfage for the use of the unimproved shore of the river, or
for that which was not, in any fair business sense, a wharf.
Here there was an improved wharf, and as such it was used by
the boats of the defendants in error. The sums demanded
were paid as and for wharfage dues, collectible under an ordinance which, rightly construed, only authorized the imposition
of dues, by way of reasonable compensation, for the use, not of
the river shore in its natural condition, but of the wharves of
the city, erected and maintained at public expense.
One other point deserves notice. The circumstance that the
defendants in error paid the Merchants' Wharf-boat Association its regular charges for landing at or against its boat does
not affect the right of the city to demand from vessels the
wharfage dues prescribed by the ordinance in question. It
does not appear that the city, by granting the privilege which
it did to that association, waived or intended to surrender its
claim for wharfage from vessels landing against the association
wharf-boat. All freighl received by or discharged from such
vessels necessarily passed over the city's wharf to its destination. It is not to be presumed that the city intended, by the
special.privileges granted to the Merchants' Wharf-boat Association, to waive its claim for wharfage dues from vessels landing against that boat, and using the city's wharf.
In view of what has been said touching the validity of 'the
city ordinance, it is unnecessary to inquire whether, had such
ordinance been held to be unconstitutional, the defendants in
error, under the evidence in this action, could recover back
what they had paid without protest or objection, and with a
full knowledge of all the facts.
The judgment of the Circuit Court will be reversed, with
directions to render judgment for the city upon the special
verdict of the jury; and it is

So ordered.
VOL. X.

