Oet. 1879.]

UNITED STATES v. LIPPITT.

UNITED STATES V. LIPPITT.

1. The limitation prescribed by theact of March 3, 1803 (12 Stat. 765), amendatory of an act establishing the Court of Claims, does not bar in that court
claims referred to it for determination by the head -of an execu'ive department, provided they were presented'for settlement at the proper department
within six years after they had first accrued.
2. Purs aant to orders, the colonel of a regiment reported, July 25, 1863, to the headquarters of a department, there to "await further orders." While awaiting
them, he was not furnished fuel or quarters. Hdd, that he is entitled to
recover their commuted value.

APPEAL from the Court of Claims.
This was a claim of Lippitt for $1,742, to which 'he alleged
that he was entitled as commutation for fuel and quarters
while he was in the military service of the United States. It
was referred to the court below by the Department of War.
He thereupon filed his petition. The United States traversed
all its averments, and also pleaded that the claim was not filed
in or transmitted to the Court of Claims within six years after
it had accrued.
The court below found the following facts :
1. The claimant was colonel of the Second California Volunteers, a regiment in the military service of the United States,
from some day preceding the 2d of July, 1863, to some day
subsequent to the 1st of August, 1864.
2. On the 2d of July, 1863,. the claimant, then being in
command of the district of Humboldt, California, where his
regiment was stationed, was ordered by the commanding general of the Department of the Pacific to report in person at the
head-quarters of the department, there to await further orders.
The head-quarters of the department were at San Francisco
during the war. The order referred to is that annexed to and
forming part of the petition.
3. In compliance with these orders, the claimant about the
25th of July, 1863, left his regiment, and from about that day
to the 1st of August, 1864, was in San Francisco, absent from
his regiment, awaiting orders.
4. There is no evidence that during the said period, the claimant received quarters and fuel in kind. There is no evidence

B664

UNITED

STATES v.

LippiTT.

[Sup. ot.

that they could have been furnished in kind. The records
of the War Department show that most if not all the officers
stationed in San Francisco received commutation of quarters
and fuel.
5. The commuted value of quarters and fuel in San Francisco, during the said period, for a colonel of infantry, was
$1,742.
6. On the 19th of July, 1864, the following order was
issued, in pursuance of which the claimant returned to his
regiment "HEAD-QUARTERS

DEPARTMENT OF THE

PACInc,

"SAN FRANCISCO, OA., July 19, 1864.
"L Colonel Francis J. Lippitt, Second Infantry California Volunteers, will repair to Fort Miller and assume command of his
regiment; head-quarters at Fort Miller.
"The Quartermaster's Department will furnish the necessary
transportation.
"By command of Major-General McDowell.
"(RicHARi 0. DuNN,
"-Assistant Adjutant- General."
7. It does not appear that the claimant was ordered to or
performed any military duty during the time he was aiwaiting
orders; nor that he reported himself at head-quarters, San
Francisco, after his first report on his arrival there.
8. It does not appear that claimant made any demand on
the proper officer at San Francisco that quarters and fuel be
furnished him.
9. It does not appear that claimant received any military
order after being placed on "awaiting orders," until the order
of July 19, 1864, to repair to his regiment.
10. The claimant, in 1865, presented his claim to the proper
department,, and pressed its settlement from that day to the
9th of January, 1878, when it was referred by the War Department to this court, by virtue of the following order "To the ffonorable the Judges of the Court of Claims:"The undersigned, Secretary for the Department of War of the
United States, hereby respectfully represents that a claim has been
made against said department by Francis J. Lippitt, late colonel

Oct. 1879.]

UNITED STATES V. LIPPITTo

Second California Infantry, brevet brigadier-general United States
Volunteers, for commutation of fuel and quarters while awaiting
further orders at San Francisco, in 1863-64.
"Said claim involving controverted questions of law, and the
decision affecting a class of cases, the undersigned hereby, and in
accordance with the provisions of sect. 1063 Revised Statutes of
the United States, causes said claim, with all the papers pertaining
thereto, to be transmitted to the Court of Claims for trial and
adjudication.
"Gno. W. McCRARY,
"Secretary of War.
"Win DEPAXMENT, Jan. 9, 1878."
Filed in the Court of Claims Jan. 10, 1878.
The Court of Claims held that the action was not barred
by the Statute of Limitations, and rendered judgment on the
merits for the claimant.
The United States then appealed to this court.
The Attorney- General for the United States.
.4r. James Lowndes, contra.
delivered the opinion of the court.
The correctness of the judgment below depends, in part, upon
the construction of the tenth section of the act of March 3, 1863,
amendatory of the act of Feb. 24, 1855, establishing the Court
of Claims. That section declares "that every claim against the
United States, cognizable by the Court of Claims, shall be for
ever barred, unless the petition setting forth a statement of the
claim be filed in the court, or transmitted to it under the provisions of this [that] act, within six years after the claim first
accrues," &c.
The claims against the government, of which the Court of
Claims could, at that date, take -cognizance, were those founded
upon some law of Congress, or upon some- regulation of an executive department, or upon some contract, express or implied,
with the government of the United States, which might be
suggested to that court by a petition filed therein; and also, all
claims which might be referred to the court by either House of
Congress. The limitation of six years applied, therefore, to
every demand asserted against the government in the Court of
MR.JUSTICE HARLAN

UNITED STATES v. LiPpiTT.

[Sup. Ct.

Claims, which it had, when the act of 1863 was passed, jurisdiction to hear and determine. Within the meaning of the act
all such claims were cognizable by that court.
By a subsequent statute, approved June 25, 1868, authority
was given to the head of any executive department, whenever
any (laim was made upon that department involving disputed
facts or controverted questions of law, where the amount in
controversy exceeded $3,000, or where the decision would affect
a class of cases, or furnish a precedent for the future action of
*any executive department in the adjustment of a class of cases,
without regard to the amount involved in the particular case;
or where any authority, right, privilege, or exemption was
claimed or denied under the Constitution of the United States,
to cause such claim, with all .documents .pertaining thereto, to
be transmitted to the Court of Claims, to be there j~rocecd'd
in as if originally commenced by the voluntary action of the
claimant.
The court was also empowered to try and adjudicate any claim
of like character, amount, or class transmitted to it by the Secretary of the Treasury, upon the certificate of an auditor or
comptroller of the treasury.
Buat the act accompanied this enlargement of the jurisdiction
of the Court of Claims with the restriction that no case should
be referred to it by the head of a department, unless it belonged
to one of the several classes of cases to which, by reason of the
subject-matter and character, the court could, under the then
existing laws, take jurisdiction on the voluntary action of the
claimant.
The claim of appellee first accrued in 1864. It was presented
to the War Department in the year 1865, and its settlement
pressed- so the finding declares- until Jan. 9, 1878. On that
day, it was transmitted by the Secretary of War to the Court
of Claims for its determination. It was transmitted, not, so far
as the record shows, at the instance or with the consent of the
appellant, but because it involved controverted questions of law,
the decision whereof would affect a class of cases.
It is conceded by the government that the claim was presented at the proper department, and, when presented, was not
barred by the limitation of six years. But the contention of

Oct. 1879.]

UNITED STATES V. LIPPITT.

the Attorney-General is that the Court of Claims is prohibited
by the express words of the statute from giving judgment
against the government upon any claim which is not asserted
by petition filed therein within six years after the claim first
accrued, or which is not within that period transmitted to the
court from one of the Houses of Congress or by the head of an
executive department.
We are unable to concur in this construction of the statute of
March 3, 1863. Such a construction would work an injustice
which we cann-t suppose Congress intended should be done to
the citizen having a demand against the government. The
claim in question, although cognizable in the first instance by
the Court of Claims, was yet properly presented at the department which had authority to pass finally upon it. It should
have been there allowed or disallowed long before the expiration of six years- from the time it first accrued. The claimant
steadily pressed its settlement without, so far as the finding
shows, any intimation that it was defectively prepared, or that
it would be ultimately rejected. The department held it undisposed of until 1878, and then sent the claimant to the Court of
Claims, where he was met at the very threshold of his case by
a plea of limitation upon the part of the government. That
plea, if sustained, would defeat the only object of the reference.
It would prevent the department from obtaining for its future
guidance the judgment of the court upon controverted questions
of law affecting a large class of cases. It should not be sustained, unless we are required to do so by some absolute, unbending rule of construction.
When this claim was presented at the War Department for
settlement, there was no statute allowing the heads of executive
departments to refer claims to the Court of Claims for adjudication. But when the act of June 25, 1868, was passed, its
provisions necessarily applied to all claims then before the
executive departments which belonged to one of the several
classes, of which, by reason of their subject-matter and character, the Court of Claims could take cognizance upon the voluntary petition of the claimant. The claim of appellee certainly
belonged to one of those classes. It was not, as we have seen,
barred by limitation, when that act was passed. It could, then,

UNITED STATES v. LippiTT.

[Sup. Ct.

in 1868, have been referred by the War Department to the
Court of Claims for its determination. But, instead of adopting that course, at a time when no question of limitation could
be raised, its reference was postponed or delayed for nearly ten
years after the passage of the act of 1868. We are satisfied
that the delay was accidental, certainly not with any intention
to defraud or injure the claimant. If the plea had, upon its
face, admitted, or if the fact was established by competent
evidence, that the delay in deciding, or in referring the claim
to the Court of Claims, was intentional, or with a purpose to
defeat the claimant, by limitation, the court would certainly
not permit the government to profit by such a course. Why
should a different conclusion be reached when the delay is
unexplained, and is inconsistent with proper diligence in the
transaction of the public busihess ? It seems to the court that,
looking at the purpose which Congress had in the establishment of the Court of Claims, and in enlarging its powers, as
indicated in the acts of 1863 and 1868, the just and reasonable
construction of the tenth section of the first-named act requires
us to hold that limitation is not pleadable, in the Court of Claims,
against a claim cognizable therein, and which has been referred
by the head of an executive department for its judicial determination, provided such claim was presented for settlement at
the proper department within six years after it first accrued;
that is, within six years after suit could be commenced thereon
against the government. Where the claim is of such a character that it may be allowed and settled by an executive department, or may, in the discretion of the head of such
department, be referred to the Court of Claims for final determination, the filing of the petition should relate back to the
date when it was first presented at the department, for allowance and settlement. In such cases, the statement of the
facts, upon which the claim rests, in the form of a petition, is
only another mode of asserting the same demand which had
previously, and in due time, been presented at the proper department for settlement. These views find support in the fact that
the act of 1868 describes claims presented at an executive
department for settlement, and which belong to the classes
specified in its seventh section, as cases which may be traus-

Oct. 1879.]

UNITED STATES v, LIPPITT.

mitted to the Court of Claims. "And all the cases mentioned
in this section, which shall be transmitted by the head of an executive department, or upon the certificate of any auditor or
comptroller, shall be proceeded in as other cases pending in said
court, and shall, in all respects, be subject to the same rules
and regulations," with right of appeal. The cases thus transmitted for judicial determination are, in the sense of the act,
commenced against the government when the claim is originally presented at the department for examination and settlement. Upon their transfer to the Court of Claims they are
to be "proceeded in as other cases pending in said court."
Whether if a claim be presented at the proper department
when six years has elapsed after it first accrued, the government is at liberty, upon its transfer therefrom to the Court of
Claims, to plead the limitation of six years, or whether the
court, in such cases, must itself interpose the statute for the
protection of the government, are questions not necessary to be
decided in this case.
Touching the merits of the case, it appears that the appellee
was required, by competent military authority, to leave his regiment, then on duty in the district of Humboldt, California,
to the command of which he had been previously assigned, and
report in person at the head-quarters of the department of the
Pacific, in San Francisco, there to await further orders. He
remained in that city, abseht from his regiment, from- about
July 25, 1863, until Aug. 1, 1864, awaiting orders. It is immaterial that he performed no active duty while thus awaiting
orders. He was subject to assignment for such duty, while in
San Francisco, and, as said by the court below, the responsibility for his non-employment rested with his superior officer.
What was said in Uited States v. Williamson (23 Wall. 411)
has some application here. That case arose under the act of
March 3, 1863, relating to the government of the army, by
which it was enacted that any officer absent from duty with
leave, except for sickness or wounds, shall, during his absence,
receive half the pay and allowances prescribed by law, and no
more. Williamson claimed full pay while absent, upon his own
request, from his command. He was, however, required to
&mong
remain at a particular place, and to await orders.

UNITED STATES v. LIPPITT.

[Sup. Cf.

other things we there said: "The obligations of an officer
directed to proceed to a place specified, there to await orders,
are quite different. It is his duty to go to that place, and to
remain at that place. He cannot go elsewhere; he cannot
return until ordered. He is as much under orders, and can
no more question the duty of obedience, than if ordered to an
ambush to lie in wait for the enemy, to march to the front by
a particular direction, or to the rear by a specified time."
Nor is there any thing in United States v. Pisterer(94
-U. S. 219) in conflict with the conclusion we have reached.
We there held that an army oicer at his own home awaiting
orders, and having no public duty to perform, was not entitled
to commutation for quarters or fuel. No such case is presented
by the special finding.
Some stress is laid upon the fact that a!pellee has failed to
show affirmatively that he made a demand on the proper officer at San Francisco for quarters and fuel in kind. There is
some force in this suggestion, but, under the circumstances of
this case, we do not think it should control our judgment.
There is no evidence that quarters and fuel could have been
furnished in kind. On the contrary, the records of the War
Department show that most, if not all, the officers stationed in
San Francisco during this period received commutation of
qvarters and fuel. In the light of all the facts found by the
court below, and since it does not appear that the claim was
objected to in the War Department upon any such ground,
during the thirteen years it lay there, undisposed of, despite
the fact that its settlement was steadily pressed by the claimant, we are disinclined to revekse the judgment because it does
not appear affirmatively that appellee, upon his arrival in San
Francisco, made a formal requisition for quarters and fuel.
Our conclusion is that, under the law as it stood when
appellee's claim accrued, he was entitled to the commuted
value of quarters and fuel 'while in -San Francisco awaiting
orders.

Judgment affirmed.

