NATIONAL BANK V. BURKHARDT.

[Sup. Ct.

NATIONAL BANK v. BURKHARDT.
1. When the priority of one legal right ovcr another, depending upon the order
of events occurring on the same day, is involved, the rule that for most
purposes the law regards the entire day as an indivisible unit is necessarily
departed from.
2. On the afternoon of Feb. 23, 1875, A. executed to a national bank in Cincinnati, Ohio, an instrument whereby he stipulated to guarantee and make
good to said bank any sum or sums which might thereafter be held against
B. to an amount not exceeding $50,000, and waived notice from time to time
of the amount and extent of such indebtedness. On the morning of that
day C. had presented for deposit therein a check to his order drawn on said
bank by B. The bank, claiming that said check was within the terms of
the guaranty, brought suit against A. to recover the amount thereof. The
evidence of the plaintiff tending to show that pursuant to a general and
notorious usage among the banks in Cincinnati, by which checks left in
the morning by depositors were held until after business hours for the
purpose of examining the accounts of the drawers, B.'s check was placed
aside by the teller for such examination, and C. informed that it would not
be placed to his credit unless found good, and that, on the part of the
defendant, no such usage existed, and that C. had no knowledge or undtrstanding in regard to said check except that it was received as a deposit by
the bank when left there by him, - the court charged the jury that it was
for them to determine whether at the time said check was left at the bank
by C. it was offered as a deposit and so received. The jury so found
Held, 1. That the charge was not erroneous. 2. That the jury having
found that said check was so offered and received, it was not a debt due
by B. within the meaning of A.'s undertaking. 3. That in view of such
finding the question of-usage was immaterial.

ERROR fo the Circuit Co urt of the United States for the
Southern District of Ohio.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Timothy D. Lincoln for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. George A. Sage and Mr. E. IF. Kittredge, contra.

Mi. JUSTICE SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
On the 23d of February, 1875, Burkhardt, the defendant in
error, executed, for the benefit of John Cinnamon, an instrument to the bank whereby he stipulated "to guarantee -1and
make good to said bank any sum or sums which may hereafter
be held against the said John Cinnamon, to an amount not
exceeding $50,000," and notice "from time to time of the
amount and extent of snch indebtedness" was waived.

Oct. 1879.]

NATIONAL BANK V. BURKHARDT.

As originally drawn, the guaranty included Cinnamon's existing as well as his future liabilities. Burkhardt refused to sign
it, unless what related to the former was stricken out.
This was done by the vice-president of the bank, and Burkhardt thereupon signed and delivered the instrument. This
was in the afternoon of the day above named.
The only ccntroversy between the parties, as the case is
presented here, relates to a check for $10,997, drawn by Cinnamon upon the bank, in favor of Evans, Lippincott, & Co.
It appears by the bill of exceptions that the check was presented to the bank by the payees on the day of its date, the
23d of February, 1875, and that the bank "gave evidence
tending to show that when the check was so handed in it was
without the pass-book, and was placed aside by the receiving
teller for examination after the close of banking hours before
it should be credited; that the receiving teller had been instructed by the cashier not to credit Cinnamon's account with
checks left until after the close of bank hours, when the account
was examined and found good ; that when the checks of Cinnamon were left on that day, the depositors were informed that
they would not be passed to their credit unless found good after
the close of bank hours; that there was at the time, and for a
long time had been, a notorious usage in Cincinnati in receiving
checks from depositors on them, and that this usage peculiarly
applied to large banks, like the First .National, by which checks
left in the bank in the morning by depositors were held until
after close of the bank, subject to be returned in the afternoon
if found, upon balancing the accounts, not to be good; that
such had been the usage in the First National Bank since its
organization in 1861, and that it was a bank of $1,500,000 capital; and that such usage was general and notorious among the
customers of the bank." And that the "defendant thereupon
gave evidence tending to show that no such usage existed, and
to contradict all the evidence of plaintiff in relation thereto,
and in reference to any notice to the depositors in regard to
Cinnamon's check as testified to by the plaintiff, and tending
to show that Evans, Lippincott, & Co. had no knowledge or
understanding in regard to said check, except that :t was received on deposit and as a deposit when it was left with the
bank."

NATIONAL BANK V. BURKHARDT.

[Sup. Ct.

If the check were to be considered as received on deposit
when it was left with the teller, and Cinnamon was the debtor
of the bank and the bank his creditor from that time, then the
transaction was not within the guaranty, and Burkhardt was
not liable. If, on the other hand, the bank had the right to
hold the check until after bank hours, and then to make its
election, and to credit the depositor and'charge Cinnamon with
the amount, as was done, the check was covered by the guaranty, and the bank was entitled to recover.
These alternatives were the hinges of the controversy upon
the trial.
The question presented was decisive of the case. Its solution
was for the jury under instructions from the court. It is insisted by the plaintiff in error that the court erred in the
instructions given.
The general charge embraced topics not brought before us,
doubtless for the reason that, with respect to them, both parties
acquiesced in the findings of the jury. The charge was full
and able. In our judgment, it was correct in every thing it
touched upon, and it covered the entire case.
Having given such a charge, the court was not bound to
give any further instructions, and it would have been as well if
the judge had declined to give those submitted by the plaintiff
in error.
It appears that they were seven in number. Only the last
four are in the record. They affirm or deny, with only a
change of phraseology, what had been said in the charge already given.
The jury was properly cautioned not to be misled or confused
by them. There is danger of both in such cases.
The first of these special charges, as we find them in the
record, was given as asked for without qualification. Nothing
need, therefore, be said in relation to it.
The second one, .vith the addition made to it by the court,
is as follows: " That if checks of John Cinnamon on the bank
were left at the bank on the 23d of February, 1875, but were
not passed upon by the receiving teller, or received as a deposit, nor entered in any pass-book or other book of the bAnk
to the credit of the parties leaving them, but were laid aside

Oct. i879.]

NATIONAL

BANK

v.

BURKHARDT.

for examination until after bank hours, when an examination
could be made to see whether Cinnamon's account was good,
then they did not become a debt of Cinnamon to the bank until
they were so passed upon and entered."
This charge the court gave, adding, "If it was handed in
as a deposit, it became a deposit at the time it was received.
Taking the surrounding circumstances into consideration, if it
was received by the teller as a deposit, it became a deposit.
That I give you, for it has these words in it, ' or received as a
deposit.'"
For most purposes the law regards the entire day as an indivisible unit. But when the priority of one legal right over another,
depending upon the order of events occurring on the same day,
is involved, this rule is necessarily departed from. Thus, where
a mortgage took effect from the time it was deposited for record
on a particular day, and a judgment became a lien upon the
premises on the same day, proof was received to show that the
mortgage was deposited before the court sat, and it was held
that the mortgage must be first satisfied. Follett v. Hall, 16
Ohio, 111. A like inquiry is involved in this case.
In Morse's well-considered work on Banking, p. 321, it is
said: " But if at the time the holder hands in the check he
demands to have it placed to his credit, and is informed that it
shall be done, or if he holds any other species of conversation
which practically amounts to demanding and receiving a promise of a transfer of credit, as equivalent to an actual payment,
the effect will be the same as if he had received his money in
cash, and the bank's indebtedness to him for the amount will
be equally fixed and irrevocable."
We regard this as a sound and accurate exposition of the law
upon the subject, and it rests upon a solid basis of reason.
The authority referred to sustains the text.
When a check on itself is offered to a bank as a deposit, the
bank has the option to accept or reject it, or to receive it upon
such conditions as may be agreed upon. If it be rejected,
there is no room for any doubt or question between the parties.
If, on the other hand, the check is offered as a deposit and
received as a deposit, there being no fraud and the check genuine, the parties are no less bound and concluded than in the
VOL. x.

44

NATIONAL BANK

v.

BURKHARDT.

[Sup. Ct.

former case. Neither can disavow or repudiate what has been
done. The case is simply one of an executed contract. There
are the requisite parties, the requisite consideration, and the
requisite concurrence and assent bf the minds of those concerned.
It was well said by an eminent Chief Justice: "If there has
ever been a doubt on this point, there should be none hereafter."
Oddie v. The National City Bank of New York,45 N. Y. 735.
We see no objection to the amendment made by the court
to the instruction under consideration. It was correct in
point of law, and it was proper to prevent any misunderstanding by the jury. It told'them tersely and clearly, as the prin
cipal charge had done, that if the check was offered and
received as a deposit it was a deposit, and it followed as matter of law, that the bank was bound accordingly. Whether
there had or had not been a consummated deposit was the
ultimate fact to be found by the jury. The evidence is not,
and should not have been, set forth in the bill of exceptions.
All on the subject to be found there is that the parties gave
evidence tending to prove what they -.respectively claimed.
What that evidence was we do not know, and it is in no wise
necessary that we should be advised upon the subject. The
facts and circumstances, whatever they were, and the probative
force and weight of each one, were exclusively for the consideration of the jury. The evidence may have been more or less
cogent on either side, and more or less characterized in parts
or in its entirety by internal conflicts and contradictions, or by
other neutralizing qualifications. With all this we have nothing to do. The subject is beyond the sphere of our power and
duties. We sit here to correct the errors committed by the
court, if there were any, as disclosed in the record. The verdict, as the case is before us, is as if it vere not. If it was
wrong, the remedy was with the court below by a new trial.
It cannot be. administered here.
The third instruction involves substantially the same point
as the second. It was given with a like addition, and an exception was taken. What we have said with respect to the
second exception applies here.
The fourth and last instruction was, that if, at the bank,
there had been for a long time a usage "that the receiving

Oct. 1879.]

N1ATIONAL BANK

v.

BURKHARDT.

691

teller entered checks in the pass-book, as they came in, subject
to a return of the checks to the depositors if in the afternoon
of the day, when the accounts were examined, the checks were
found not to be good, and to return the same to the party depositing them, and such were then made good by the depositor,
. . . such usage would be a valid and legal usage as between
the depositors and the bank."
The court refused to give this charge as asked, but gave it as
thus qualified: "Nothing in this case shows that Mr. Evans knew any thing
about this usage. As to the question of general usage, I have
said that it was not competent to change the law in the case,
when the deposit was made without any thing said about the
deposit by the persons receiving the deposit, - the law made
that a debt against the bank in favor of the depositor; but if
the depositor knows the usage in cases of that kind, why, as a
matter of course, it will change it."
The plaintiff in error excepted.
The proposition submitted was fatally defective innot including as one of its terms that the depositors knew of the special
and particular usage mentioned. Without such knowledge it
was entirely ineffectual. The objection of the judge was conclusive. Mloore v. Foug!hton, 1 Stark. 396; 1 Chitty, Contr. 84.
The principal charge was full and clear in regard to the
general usage or custom insisted upon by the plaintiff in error.
Upon that subject the judge, a~nong other things to the like
effect, remarked: "It is said by the plaintiff, by way of proof,
that although there was no express agreement between Evans,
Lippincott, & Co., the depositors of this check, and the bank,
that it should be returned in case it should not be found good
at three o'clock, or shortly thereafter, yet that there was a
general usage among bankers of the city'of Cincinnati of that
character, which extended to all their customers, and, therefore, it had become a law. The question of usage, as presented
here, is undoubtedly a very important question, and as a general proposition of law every commercial contract is entered
into with the understanding that the usage in iegard to the
particular matter of the contract becomes a part and parcel of
the contract itself."

NATIONAL

3ANK

v.

BURKHARDT.

[Sup. Ot.

A large part of the able and elaborate argument of the
counsel for the plaintiff in error was addressed to this point.
In our view, conceding the usage to have been established, it
was in no wise material as a factor in the case.
The verdict of the jury, by rejecting the claim of the bank
touching the check, established the fact that the deposit became complete by the agreement of the parties when the check
was handed in. As a necessary consequence, it was not within
the undertaking of Burkhardt. Usage, therefdre, could have
had no effect upon the rights of the parties, and was immaterial.
The result of the case must have been the same as if that subject had not been drawn in question.,
A general usagq may be proved in proper cases, to remove
ambiguities and uncertainties in a contract, or to annex incidents, but it cannot destroy, contradict, or modify what is
otherwise manifest. Where the intent and meaning of the
parties are clear, evidence of a usage to the contrary is irrelevant and unavailing.
Usage cannot make a contract where there is none, nor
prevent the effect of the settled rules of law. Barnard v.
Kellogg, 10 Wall. 390; Bliven v. New _England Screw Co.,
29 How. 433; Collender v. Dinsmore, 55 N. Y. 200; Adams
v. Goddard, 48 Me. 212; Thompson v. Biggs, 5 Wall. 674;
DJykers v. Allen, 7 Hill (N. Y.), 497.
These considerations apply to the posture of the case as it
was found to be by the verdict of the jury, under instructions,
properly given, by the court. According to those tests, the
contract was clear, complete, and irrevocable when the check
was delivered by. one party and received by the other. After
that therd was nothing left for usage to do. Its aid, when the
controversy arose, was invoked too late. If the bank proposed
'to hold the check on conditions, it was but fair and just to the
other party to have said so when it was received, and thus
have given him the option, after such notice, to do with it as
he might think proper. The saving or loss of the amount to
the payees might have depended on the promptitude and energy
of their conduct. Delay until after bank hours might have
determined the result inevitably against them. It would be
contrary to plainest prineples of reason and justice to permit a

Oct. 1879.]

MANNING

V. INSURANCE

C0.

bauik, under such circumstances, to shift the burden of the loss
from itself to the shoulders of an innocent depositor.
It does not appear by the record that any evidence offered
by the bank, touching the general usage, was excluded, and
we think what was said by the court in that connection, as
well as with respect to the special usage of the institution, was
unexceptionable, and was quite as favorable to the bank as it
had a right to claim.
If either side had ground for complaint, it was not the plaintiff in error.
Judgment affirmed.

MIANNING v. INSURANO

CoMPANY.

1. A contract between A. and an insurance company stipulated that for his selvices as its agent the company would pay him twenty per cent on the ordinary premiums upon all policies for the first year, and "seven and one-half
per cent for the second and subsequent years of assurance," said allowance
to continue for twenty-five-years, should the policies remain so long in force.
It was also stipulated that he should appolqt sub-agents, that all moneys
should be promptly remitted to the company ort or before the fifteenth day
of each month, and that his "commissions should accrue only as the premiums were paid to the company." The company having discharged him
from its service, June 2, 1871, brought this suit to recover its moneys in
his hands, and introduced evidence that he was indebted to it in a certain
areount, and had been properly removed. Among other defences, he offered
to show that a set-off existed in his favor for commissions collected and
received by the company from May 1, 1871, to Dec. 23, 1871, and interest
thereon. After having made proof of notice to the company to produce
the book3 and papers necessary to show the amount of renewal premiums
received by it from policies obtained through his agency during the period
mentioned, and the books and papers not being produced, he testified that
on June 2,1871, there were policies in force upon which the annual premiuws would be $7,000, as it appeared in his accounts with his subageneics, that his annual cohimissions upon the premiums would amount
to $8,11.14, and that computing the amount which would be due to him,
accruing between that date and Dee. 23, 1871, they amounted to about
$4,75497. No direct proof was given that any of the policies in force on
Iay 1, 1871, or on June 2, 1871, had been renewed or extended, or that
any of the annual premiums becoming payable after those dates had been
paid to the company or received by it. The court instructed the jury, in
effvct, that if A. had been removed from his agency without just cause,
they might find from this evidence what amount the company should have

