Oct. 1879.]

UNITED

STATES V. CURTIS.

rulings of the officers were in regard to any particular point.
It appears that there was a contest between the partieq there,
and that the case was decided in favor of the plaintiff; out the
grounds of the decision are not stated. Such being the state
of the pleadings, it is impossible to say that any error of ]aw
was committed by the tribunal.
Viewed in any light, it is clear that there is no error in the
record, and the assignment of errors must be overruled.
J"udgment affirmed.

UNTED STATES v. CURTIS.
CURTIS v. UNITED STATES.

The United States, in an action against the sureties of a paymaster in the army,
a~signed as the breach of the conditions of his official bond that he did not,
when thereunto required, refund ',3,820.02, with interest. He rendered his
account Nov. .30, 1805, when he left the service, and shortly thereafter died.
On the subsequent adjustment of his account at the Treasury Department,
that sum was found to be due at said date. No demand therefor was made
od hi pkcr.onal representatives, and the sureties had no notice of the claim
b,eforc thk, service of the writ in the actton. The adjustment was the only
evidenc,. of the sum due. Hdd, that the United States is entitled to recover
that sunt, buit with interest only from the date of such service.

Elzuon to the Circuit Court of The United States for the
District of Massachusetts.
This was an action of debt, brought by the United States on
a joint and several bond in the penal sum of ,$20,000, executed
May 30, 1862, by Oliver Holman and his sureties, James 0.
Curtis and Joshua T. Foster, conditioned that said Holman,
a paymaster in the army, should faithfully discharge his duties
as such; that he should regularly account, when thereunto required, for all moneys received by him, and "refund at any
time when thereunto required any public moneys remaining in
his hands unaccounted for." The only breach assigned in the
declaration is that he did not refund when thereunto required
the sum of $3,320.02 with interest.
Holman, although named in the writ, was not living when

UNITED

STATES V. CURTIS.

(Sup. Ct.

it was sued out. Curtis and Foster were duly served, and by
counsel entered their appearance.
It appears from an agreed statement of facts that Holman
went out of office Sept. 80, 1865, and on that day rendered a
final account, showing nothing due to the United States or
to himself. One credit in that account is for "$2,658 stolen,
as per report to paymaster-general, Aug. 7, 1865."
On a final adjustment of the account made March 18, 1872,
after the death of Holman, the second auditor found that there
was due to the United States $3,320.02. No part of this
amount has been paid. It does not appear that any demand
therefor was made of Holman's personal representatives, and
the sureties had notice of the existence of the claim only by
the service of the writ. To enable them to petition for relief
in the Court of Claims under the act of May 9, 1866 (14 Stat.
44), the cause was continued from term to term. That court,
finding that Holman was not without fault or neglect, dismissed
a petition, wherein they prayed for a decree declaring that the
amount of the funds stolen should be entered as a credit in
the settlement of the account. The sureties then made default,
but appeared at the hearing on the assessment of damages,
when the agreed statement was filed. The court thereupon
entered judgment in favor of the United States for the said
sum of $3,320.02, with interest thereon at the rate of six per
cent per annum from Oct. 15, 1872.
Each party removed the case here; the United States assigning for error that interest should have been computed from
Nov. 30, 1865, and the defendants, that the court erred in
awarding against them any sum other than one merely nominal
as damages.
.ir. Assistant Attorney- Genteral Smith for the United States.
1. It was the duty of Holman when he went out of office,
Nov. 30, 1865, to pay to the United States the moneys then
due and in his hands. He and his sureties were bound to
know the law in that regard, and such knowledge is equivalent to a demand. He had no right to credit himself with the
amount of funds stolen from him (United States v. Prescott,
3 How. 578; illuzzy v. Shattuek, 1 Den. (N. Y.) 233; State v.
Harpe', 6 Ohio St. 607; State v. Township, 28 Ind. 86; Han-

Oct. 1879.]

UNITED STATES V. CuIRTIS.

coek v. Hayward, 12 Cush. (Mass.) 112; Commonwealth v.
Comly, 3 Pa. St. 374; Halbert v. State, 22 Ind. 125); and the
accounting officers had no authority to allow such a credit.
Barmbgton v. Stanley, 60 Ale. 472; Porterv. Stanley, 47 id.
515 ; Angel v. Pownal, 3 Vt. 461 ; Horn v. Whittier, 6 N. H.
94; Carlton v. Bath, 22 id. 559.
2. For not paying over the moneys at that date, he and his
sureties are liable. The contract of the latter is not distinguishable from his. He engaged to do certain things, and'foi
not doing them was liable. The sureties engaged that he
should do them; and for his not doing them they became
liable. The same default or neglect that charges him must
charge them. Seaver v. Young, 16 Vt. 662; United States v.
Cushiman, 2 Sumn. 436; Berg v. Radelif 6 Johns. (N. Y.) Oh.
302; Shaw v. HlleFarlane, 1 Ired. (N. C.) L. 216; Hobbs v.
01lddleton, 1 J. J. Marsh. (Ky.) 176.
3. Interest runs from that date. Dodge v. Perkins, 9 Pick.
(Mass.) 368; Wood v. Robbins, 11 Mass. 506; Gay v. Gardiner,
54 Me. 477; Buzzell v. Snell, 25 N. H. 474; ANational Lancers
v. Loveribg, 30 id. 511; Whiteworth v. Hart, 22 Ala. 343; Wlliams v. Sherrman, 7 Wend. (N. Y.) 109, 112; Still v. Hunt,
20 id. 51; Vran Rensselaer v. Jewett, 2 N. Y. 139, 140; Adams
v. Fort Plain Bank, 36 id. 261; Stacy v. Graham, 14 id.
492; Lynch v. De Vear, 3 Johns. (N. Y.) 303, 310; Clark v.
Barlow, 4 id. 183; Honore v. Murray, 3 Dana (Ky.), 31; Elkin
v. Moore, 6 B. Mon. (Ky.) 462; Sims v. Gondelock, 7 Rich.
(S. C.) 23; Kennedy v. Barnwell, id. 124; Barr v. Hazelton,
10 Rich. (S. C.) Eq. 61, 62; Palmer v. North, 35 Barb. (N. Y.)
282, 294; Vermont jt Canada Railroad Co. v. Fermont Central
Railroad Co. et als., 34 Vt. 1 ; Stevenson v. Maxwell, 2 Sandf.
(N.Y.) Ch. 273; Bassett v. Sanborn, 9 Cush. (Mass.) 68; Cooper
v. Rainey, 4 Minn. 532; Leake v. Lawrence, 11 Paige (N. Y.),
80; Evans v. State, 86 Tex. 323.
4. The United States has the right of every creditor whose
moneys are wrongfully withheld. When it becomes party to
a contract, its relation to the other contracting parties is the
same as that subsisting between individuals. United States v.
BarLc ,, 12 WheAt. 559; United States Bank v. Planters'Bank,
9 id. 904; Uited States v. Ames, 1 Wood. & MN.76 ; United

UNITED STATES V. CURTIS.

[Sup. Or.

States v. Bank of .3letropolis, 15 Pet. 377; The Floyd Acceptances, 7 Wall. 666;" United States v.. Union"Pacific Railroad
Co., 98 U. S. 569.
Mr. Thomas H. Talbot, contra.
1. The writ did not make the requisite demand upon Hol.
man or his personal representatives:~ It raii against neither,
and there was, in the absence of a demand, no breach of the
bond.
For the purpose of ascertaining the sunr due in equity and
good conscience, the failure of the defendants to plead does not
waive proof as to a demand, for no defect or admission in the
previous pleadings can deprive either party of the 'right to an
equitable adjustment of all claims secured by the bond. 2ferrill v. faentire, 13 Gray (Mass.), 157; Attleborough v. Hatch,
97 Mass. 533. If, then, that failure will serve to justify any
judgment for the United States; it must be merely for nominal
damages.
2. If this court should hold that upon the facts disclosed
by the record the sureties are liable for the principal sum,
it is submitted that interest thereon should not be awarded.
The liability of the sureties must be kept within the strict
limits of the terms of the contract, and cannot be enlarged by
implication. Bank of Brighton v. Smith, 12 Allen (Mass.),
243. And it did not arise if, when required, Holman should
refund public moneys remaining in his hands unaccounted for.
No such requirement was made Nov. 30, 1865, from which
date the government contends that interest should be computed.
They had also bound themselves that he should, for all
moneys officially received by him, "regularly account." This
he did at the close of his service, and the account which he
then rendered showed nothing due from or to the government,
and no moneys in his hands unaccounted for.
His next' duty was to refund, when required, any moneys
which a revision of his accounts should show to be in his hands
"unaccounted for." That is, he was to respond to a demand
for any balance found due from him upon the adjustment of
his account at the treasury. Until this adjustment, -and none
was made before his death, -no public moneys remained in

Oct. 1879.]

UNITED STATES V. CURTIS.

his hands "unaccounted for," and no demand was thereafter
made of his representatives.
If, however, the service of the writ is a demand upon the
sureties, interest prior thereto should not be allowed.
Mr. JUSTICE MiLLER, after stating the facts, delivered the
opinion of the court.
To the error assigned by the defendants it is sufficient to say
that, having been served with the writ, and appeared by counsel, and having thereafter suffered a voluntary default, that
default was a confession of indebtedness on account of the
breach of the bond assigned; namely, the failure of Holman,
their principal, to pay over the moneys in his hands when thereunto required, and of such demand as imposed upon his sureties the obligation to pay. There remained only the question
of the amount due from him on account of moneys in his
hands, and of this the auditor's statement of account was evidence which was uncontradicted. There is, therefore, no error
of which they can complain.
The United States, however, asserted a right to interest on
the amount found due by the auditor from the date at which
Hohnan ceased to be paymaster, namely, Nov. 30, 1865.
Without attempting to decide any other case but this, we
are of opinion that the breach of the bond on which the defendants were sued did not occur until Holman, his legal representatives, or his sureties, were required to refund moneys in
his hands; that is, until some notice was given that a definite
sum in his hands had -bythe proper accounting officer been
found to be due to the United States. Of course, until there
was a breach of the condition of the bond, which rendered him
or his sureties liable, there could be no right to interest on
account of such breach.
The agreed statement shows that no such statement was
made or rendered to Holman in his lifetime, or any demand to
refund. Nor does it appear that any such statement was rendered to his executors, or a demand made of them or of the
sureties, except by the service of the writ.
We are, therefore, of opinion that the earliest moment at
which any one became liable on account of the breach of the

HATCH v.' OIL Co.

[Sup. Gt.

condition of the bond now sued on was the service of the writ
on the defendants, and that such service was a sufficient demand. The court properly allowed interest on that basis.
Judgment affirmed.

HATCH v. OML -COPANY.
A. & B. agreed, by a contract in writing, to manufacture for C., at a stipulated
price, a quantity of staves, and to pile them on lands adjoining their mill,
which were leased to him. The contract provided that, on the staves being
counted from week to week, A. & B. were to be entitled to a certain percentage of the price of the number ascertained; that upon such piling and counting the delivery should be deemed complete, and the staves were thenceforth
to be absolutely and unconditionally the property of 0. Before the day when
all were to-be furnished, and full payments made, a creditor of A. & B. caused
his execution to be levied upon the staves which had been counted and piled,
most of them being then upon the leased lands and the remainder upon a
contiguous tract. The stipulated percentage had also been paid. The lease
and contract were not recorded nor filed, but the contract was made in good
faith. Held, that the title to the staves was in C., and they were not subject
to the execution.

ERR oR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Michigan.

The Standard Oil Company of Cleveland brought replevin
against Alonzo S. Hatch for a quantity of staves whereof it
claimed to be the owner, which he, as sheriff of Lapeer
County, Michigan, had seized under and by virtue of certain
attachments and executions sued out against the property of
John J. and Alfred E. Merritt.
There was a verdict in favor of the company, and judgment

having been'rendered thereon, Hatch sued out this writ of
error.

The assignment of errors is set out in the opinion of the
court.
The facts giving rise to the litigation are substantially as follows :An agreement in writing was entered into March 11, 1874,

between the company, an Ohio corporation, and said Merritts,

