RAILROAD

Co. V. SCHUTTE.

[Sup. Ct.

RAILROAD COMPANY v. SCRUTTE.
1. A supersedeaswill be vacated when the approval of the bond therefor was
obtained by fraud and perjury.
2. If it appears that the appellant had knowledge of such fraud and perjury, a
new bond will not he accepted.
8. The record in this case not being complete or properly certified, the court
orders that unless appellant causes the omissions to be supplied on or before
a specified day, the appeal be dismissed.

MOTION to vacate the suTpersedeas, and dismiss an appeal
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern
District of Florida.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
_r. Xatt. Hf. Carpenter and Afr. Wayne Mac Feagh in support of the motion.
Air. Philip Phillip8 and ir. William A. A3aury, contra.
MR. CHIr JUSTicE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.

In this case the appellees have moved, 1. To vacate the 8upermedea8, because the approval of the
supersedeas bond by the justice of this court, who allowed the
appeal, was obtained by fraud and perjury; and,
2. To dismiss the appeal, because the transcript of the record
which has been filed in this court is not complete, and is not
properly certified.
The appellants also have moved for leave to file a new bond
in case the old one shall be set aside.
1. As to the vacation of the 8uper8edeas.
That the approval of the bond was brought about by gross
fraud and perjury is so conclusively shown that no attempt has
been made to deny it. The evidence also shows with equal
certainty that the bond was obtained in the most irregular way.
A lawyer who, to say the least, was an entire stranger to all the
parties in interest, was employed to procure, within thixty-six or
forty-eight hours, sureties for the appellants sufficient to secure
the payment of $100,000. He was to be paid for his services
six bonds of $1,000 each of the Florida Central Railroad Corn-

Oct. 1879.]

RAILROAD Co. v. SCHUTTE.

pany, the appellant corporation, which were then of no marketable value. In due time he produced the requisite number of
persons to sign as sureties. When they came, the "usual form
of justification of about four lines in length" was "ignored,"
and a full affidavit was drawn for each surety, wherein was
set forth "the name and residence of the surety, the amount
of real estate, its location, its value, whether or not incumbered,
if so, to what amounf; next, the amount of his personal property, its character, whether or not incumbered, and if so, to
what amount; next, whether or not the surety was upon any
other bond; next, whether or not there were any judgments
against the surety; and finally summing up that he owned so
much over all his debts and liabilities, naming the sum. Each
of these questions'each surety answered favorably, and swore
to. The justifications were extraordinary in their minuteness,
as the affidavits will show."
This being done, a bond sufficient in form was signed by the
"procured" sureties. One of the persons who signed, said to
be a" very wealthy man," was paid $125 for what he did. Another, "the son of a former judge of the Supreme Court of the
State of New York," received $12.50; another, a colored porter in a lawyer's office, $10; another was paid $10; and another was promised $50, but actually paid nothing. They
were all irresponsible pecuniarily, and known to or suspected
by the police of the city of New York as "purchasable sureties."
The money to pay them for their fraudulent work
was furnished by an agent of the appellant company under the
form of buying back one of the worthless bonds promised as a
reward for what was done.
After the bond was executed by the sureties thus obtained,
the president of the appellant corporation was called in. He
signed officially the name of the corporation, and affixed the
corporate seal, but did not see, or ask to see, any of the persons
who had become bound with his company. Neither he nor any
other person actually interested in the litigation became in any
manner personally bound.
With such a bond, procured in such a way, the presideiit of
the corporation presented himself at the last moment to the justice of this court, who heard the cause in the Circuit Court at

RAILROAD CO. V. SCHUTTE.

[Slip. Ut.

his summer residence in Vermont, and" asked that the bond be
approved. On its presentation, as we are informed by the testimony of the president himself, the justice read and seemed to be
inipressed "with the fulness and particularity of the justifications." He said, "This seems to be a good bond." The reply
was, "Yes, Judge, I believe it to be a very good bond." The
justice then asked as to one of the parties whose name appeared, and the reply was, "I am informed that he is the son
of a former judge of the Supreme Court of the State of New
York of that name," adding that another of the signers, "I am
advised, is a very wealthy man."
Under these circumstances, the bond was approved. To
allow it to stand and to operate as a stay of execution upon
an important decree until the case can be reached in its order
on our crowded docket, would be a reproach upon the administration of justice. We are aware that in Jerome v. 31c Carter
(21 Wall. 17) we said, "That, upon facts existing at the time
the security was accepted, the action of the justice, within the
statute and within the rules of practice adopted for his guidance, is final," and that we would " presume that when he
acted, every fact was presented to him that could have been."
We are not inclined to depart from that rule, but, in a case of
this kind, fraud is always open to inquiry. When discovered,
justice requires that summary relief should be afforded, whenever and wherever it may be done consistently with the forms
of orderly judicial procedure. This bond is as much false as
if it had been forged. The persons who signed it are not in
fact what they were represented to be. We have no hesitation
in setting aside the approval of the bond.
2. As to the acceptance of a new bond in the place of the
old one.
This application is addressed to our judicial discretion, and
is based on the alleged ignorance of the officers and agents of
the appellant corporation as to the character of the bond they
got accepted. They insist in the most positive manner that
they were deceived, and that they actually believed the security
they offered was ample. The character of the president is
vouched for under oath by many persons occupying high positions in public and private life, and they all say " they do not

Oct. 1879.]

RAILROAD C0. v. SCHUTTE.

believe he would knowingly countenance or in any way participate in or suffer an attempt to impose on the Supreme
Court of the United States, or any justice thereof, a fraudulent
or worthless bond; " but the fact still remains that he did present such a bond, and if he was ignorant of the wrong that was
being done, the other agents of the company were not. Taking
the whole case together, we think it quite as incumbent on us
to refuse to accept a new bond as it is to set aside the old one.
The motion to vacate the supersedeas is granted.
3. As to dismissing the appeal.
The evidence shows that after the bond was accepted the
president of the railroad company went with his own copyists
to the office of the clerk of the Circuit Court, and in the absence of the principal clerk selected such of the papers and
proofs used on the hearing below as he thought were necessary,
and had them copied into the transcript. This being done, he
caused a certificate to be added, signed in the name of the
clerk by a deputy, and sealed with the seal of the court, to
the effect that the transcript annexed contained copies of such
entries, papers, and proofs as were "necessary on the hearing
of the appeal prayed and allowed in the said cause." It is
now alleged that many important papers and documents used
on the hearing below, and necessary for the proper determination of the cause here, have been omitted from the transcript
as filed.
While we desire to encourage in every proper way all attempts made in good faith to exclude immaterial matter from
the transcripts brought here on appeals or writs of error, it
will not do to permit the appellant or the plaintiff in error to
make up a record to suit himself, without any regard to the
wishes of his opponents or the rules and practice of the court.
We therefore order, That the appellees file with the clerk of this court, and with
the counsel for the appellant, on or before the first day of
February next, a statement of the papers, documents, and
proofs used on the hearing below, and omitted in the transcript
now on file, which they deem necessary for the proper presentation of the cause, and that unless the appellant shall, on or
before the fifteenth day of March, file in this court as part of

IUPROVEMENT CO. v. SLICK.

[Sup. O .

the record copies of such papers, duly certified by the clerk of
the Circuit Court or his deputy, under the seal of the court,
this appeal be dismissed.
If in this way unnecessary papers are brought up, we will,
on application, make such order in respect to costs as may
under the circumstances be proper.

IMPROVMNT COMPANY V. SLACK.
The "Argilite Mining and Manufacturing Company" was incorporated by an
act of the General Assembly of Kentucky passed March 4, 1865. Its name,
by an amendment to the charter, was changed to the "Kentucky Improvement
Company," and it was authorized to "construct one or more rail tracks from
any lands owned or improved by said corporation to convenient points on tle
Ohio or Little Sandy River, or both, or to connect with other railways, and
to maintain said track or tracks, and to draw cars over the same by suitable
motive power." For the "construction and convenient and proper use and
maintenance of such railroads" the company was authorized to condemn and
appropriate the necessary lands and materials. Pursuant to said authority,
the company built and equipped a railroad, and on Aug. 15, 1866, issued in
payment therefor its six per cent coupon bonds to the amount of .$500,000,
secured by mortgage on its landed property and improvements. The road
was finished in June, 1868, and thereafter the company transported over it its
own freight, officers, and agents, and in addition thereto, though not in terms
so authorized by the charter, from time to time other passengers and freight
for hire. Beid, that the company was, within the meaning of the ninth section
of the act of July 13, 1866 (14 Stat. 138), a railroad company, and as such, for
the year 1870, liable to the tax of five per cent on coupons thereby imposed.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Massachusetts.
This was an action brought by the Kentucky Improvement
Company against Charles W. Slack, collector of internal
revenue for the third collection district of Massachusetts, to
-recover the amount of certain internal-revenue taxes which, it
was alleged, had been erroneously and illegally assessed and
collected.
The case was submitted to the court below upon the followIng agreed statement of facts - "After an appeal duly made to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue (April 29, 1873), this suit was brought against

