Oct. 1879.]

REMOVAL CASES.

REMOVAL CASES.
MIMER 7V. CONSTRUCTION COMPANY ; CONSTRUCTION CO-I
v. MEYER.
PANY V. MEYER; RAILROAD CoTiN Xr
1. The provision in the first clause of the second section of the act entitled "An
Act to determine the jurisdiction of circuit courts of the United States, and
to regulate the removal of causes from State courts, and for other purposes," approved March 3, 1875 (18 Stat., part 3, 470), "that any suit of a
civil nature, at law or in equity, now pending ... in any State court,
where the matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive of costs, the sum or value
of $00, . . . in which there shall be a controversy between citizens of
different States, . . . either party may remove said silt into the Circuit
Court of the United States for the proper district," construed, and held to
mean that when the controversy about which a suit in the State court is
brought is between citizens of one or more States on one side, and citizens
of other States on the other side, either party to the controversy may
remove the suit to the Circuit Court without regard to the position they
occupy in the pleadings as plaintiffs or defendants. For the purposes of a
removal, the matter in dispute may be ascertained, and according to the
facts the parties to the suit arranged on opposite sides of that dispute.
If in such an arrangement it appears that those on one side, being all citizens of different States from those on the other, desire a removal, the suit
may be removed.
2. Until a case requiring it arises, the court refrains from expressing an opinion
upon the second clause of said section.
3, The petition for removal (infra, p. 463), held to be sufficient in form.
4. An application made before trial for the removal to the Circuit Court of a
cause pending in a State court at the passage of said act of March 3, 1875,
was in time if made at the first term of the court thereafter.
5. In order to bar the right of removal, it must appear that the trial in the State
court was actually in progress in the orderly course of proceeding when the
application was made.
6. The ruling in Isnrance C(ompany v. Dunn (19 Wall. 214), that a party who
failing in his efforts to obtain a removal of a suit is forced to trial loses
none of his rights by defending against the action, reaffirmed.
. Under the laws of Iowa, a mechanic's lien for work done under a contract
takes precedence of all incumbrances put on the property by mortgage or
otherwise, after the work was commenced.
8. A statement in a contract between a railroad company and a construction
company that the former would pay the latter out of a certain fund, - the
subscription of a particular county along the road -is not such a taking
by the latter company of a collateral security as to vitiate its lien.

THE first case is here in error to the Supreme Court of the
State of Iowa.

REMOVAL OASES.

[Sup. t

The remaining cases are appeals from the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of Iowa.
These cases present the following facts: On the 6th of
August,' 1870, the Delaware and St. Paul Railroad Company,
an Iowa corporation, contracted with the Delaware Railroad
Construction Company, also an Iowa corporation, for the construction of that part of its railroad lying in Delaware County,
Iowa. The contract contained full specifications of the work
to be performed and the prices to be paid, and concluded as
follows: -

"The prices above specified are to be in full compensation for all
materials and labor required to put the same into the work herein
contracted for, and complete the same in all respects as provided in
this contract. In order to enable the contractor to prosecute the
work advantageously, the said engineer shall make an estimate from
'time to time, not oftener than once per month, as the work progresses, both on work done and materials delivered on the line of
said railroad. 'The said party of the second part will pay in current
money eighty per cent of the amount of said estimate; twenty
(20) per cent of the estimates, as they are made to the party of the
first part, may be retained by the party of the second part as damages in case of a forfeiture of this contract; which said (20) twenty
per cent, together with the whole amount of this contract, according to the terms thereof, and on the estimate of the engineer, shall
be paid to the party of the first part within thirty days after all the
work herein contracted for is completed and accepted by the engineer. ' Qualified below.'
"The above payments on estimates shall be made every thirty
(80) days, at the office of the president of said Davenport and St.
Paul Railroad Company, in Davenport. The Davenport and St.
Paul Railroad Company may stop all work at any time, without
payment of damages, by giving thirty days' notice.
"Whenever five consecutive miles of, work from the south line of
Delaware County are completed by the party of the first part, and
accepted by the -party of the second part, the party of the second
part shall pay the full amount'of the contract price for said work
on said five miles within thirty days after said work is accepted,
without the deduction of said twenty per cent, and for every additional fivd consecutive miles of the south end of the work completed
by s4id first party, said second party shall pay in like manner within

Oct. 1879.J

REMOVAL CASES.

thirty days after the same has been accepted, and so on through
the county from south to north.
"Signed this sixth day of August, A.D. 1870.
"R. EDDY, Pres.
"J. Al. BRAYTON, Sae'y.
"F. B. DOOLITTLE, Treas.
"Board of Diredorsof the Deaware Railroad Constructicn Company.

"All the money for the work hereinbefore specified to be paid
by the citizens of Delaware County.
" H. Pn icn,
" Pres't Dav, and St. Paul R. R. Co."

The work under this contract was commenced Sept. 29,
1870, and completed Oct. 31, 1872. On the 20th of December, 1872, the construction company filed in the office of
the clerk of the District Court of Delaware County the statements and accounts required by the laws of Iowa to secure
a mechanic's lien on the part of the railroad which had thus been
completed. The balance claimed to be due was $71,165.58.
On the 4th of June, 1872, there was filed for record in the
office of the recorder of Delaware County a mortgage, bearing
date July 1, 1871, but acknowledged May 16, 1872, whereby
the railroad company conveyed its entire line of railroad, including with the rest that built by the construction compani
to William Dennison, a citizen of the State of Ohio, and J.
Edgar Thompson, a citizen of the State of Pennsylvania, as
trustees, to secure the payment of a proposed issue of bonds,
amounting in the aggregate to six millions of dollars. Provision was made for the appointment of a new trustee in case
of the death of either of those named in the deed.
On the 15th of January, 1874, the construction company
commenced a suit in equity in the Circuit Court for the county
of Delaware, a State court to enforce its mechanic's lien, and
in the petition priority was claimed for this lien over that of
the mortgage. In this suit,.the railroad company, Thompson
and Dennison, as trustees, the Davenport Railway Construction
Company, an Iowa corporation, and Lucius Howard, were named
as defendants, but process was served only on the railroad company. On the 28th of January, the railroad company appeared
and filed an answer, substantially admitting the allegations in

REMOVAL CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

the petition except as to the amount due. Credits were claimed,
however, beyond those acknowledged by the construction company, and a reference was asked for a statement of the accounts.
To this answer a reply was filed January 80. On the 6th of
February the construction company and the railroad company
appeared by their respective counsel, and a motion by the railroad company for a reference being overruled, the court proceeded to receive evidence in the cause. In this state of the
case, it was agreed between the parties then appearing, to wit,
the construction company and the railroad company, as follows "The case as to these parties is referred to Henry Harger, Esq.,
who appears in open court and accepts the appointment of referee,
with power to examine witnesses, books, and papers and accounts,
and upon the findings of said referee being reported to the judge of
this court, a judgment, by agreement of said parties in open court,
is to be entered for the amount due, and a decree for a mechanic's
lien to be made establishing such lien, the hearing to commence on
Monday morning, Feb. 9, 1874, at nine o'clock Am., at the office of
said Harger in Delhi, Iowa, and to continue from day to day until
completed.
"And by said agreement of said parties the judgment is to be
entered as of the last day of this January Term, 1874, of this court,
and the cause is by order of court continued as to all the defendants except said Davenport and St. Paul Railroad Company."
The referee proceeded to the hearing and presented his report,
which was approved by the circuit judge on the 13th of February, and the judge at the same time directed the clerk to
enter a judgment in accordance with the finding as of February
6, the last day of the preceding term. On the 14th of February
the referee filed his report and the indorsement of the judge
thereon with the clerk, and thd clerk entered a judgment in
favor of the construction company for 851,930.54, with interest
at six per cent from February 6, and establishing a lien upon
the railroad in the county to secure the payment. A special
execution for the sale of the property in accordance with this
judgment was also ordered. On the 17th of February, such an
execution was issued, and on the 4th of May the property was
sold by the sheriff to the construction company for $53,000,

Oct. 1879.]

REMOVAL CASES.

and a conveyance made to its treasurer in trust. Afterwards
the property was conveyed by the treasurer to the Delaware
County Railroad Company, an Iowa corporation created and
organized for the purpose of taking the conveyance and holding
the property. This new corporation was composed of substantially the same stockholders as the construction company.
On the 6th of April, 1874, an affidavit was made and filed
in the suit by the attorney of the construction company, to the
effect "that personal service of original notice in said suit cannot be made upon the defendants, J. Edgar Thompson and
William Dennison, trustees of certain bondholders of said railroad, within the State of Iowa, and they are non-residents of
said State of Iowa." The next day a supplemental petition
was filed in the cause, as follows "And now comes the plaintiff in this suit and states that since
the commencement of this suit, to wit, on the sixth day of February,
A.D. 1874, a decree has been rendered by this court against the
Davenport and St. Paul Railroad Company, a copy of said decree
being hereto annexed, and made a part of this supplemental petition,
by which judgment was rendered against said railroad company in
favor of said plaintiff for the sum of $51,930.54, besides costs of suit,
and.the mechanic's lien claimed in the original'petition in this suit
was established as claimed in said petition.
"Wherefore plaintiff asks that the remaining defendants be foreclosed of all rights of reden.ption of the property described in said
original petition; that said lien be established against the iemaining
detbndants in said suit; that it be declared paramount to all claims
of said defendant, and that plaintiff have such other and further
relief as may be equitable."
Notice to these defendantq of the pendency of the original
and supplemental petitions -was published in the "Delhi
Monitor," a newspaper published weekly at Delhi, Delaware
County, four successive weeks, commencing April 9 and ending
April 30, requiring them to appear and answer before the 19th
of May then next, or default would be entered against them,
and judgment and decree rendered as prayed for. On the 22d
of May, proof of the publication of this notice having been
made, a decree was entered on default, granting the relief asked
for, and foreclosing the defendants, Thompson and Dennison,

REMOVAL CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

"from all right of redemption of, in, or to the said property,
and every part thereof," and declaring that the rights of the
construction company were "superior and paramount to any
and all claims or rights of said defendants to the same or any
part thereof." At the same time the cause was dismissed as to
the defendant Lucius Howard. The Davenport Railway Construction Company never appeared in the suit, and it nowhere
appears what its interest in the controversy was.
Thompson, one of the trustees, died May 23, the next day
after this decree was entered, and on the 26th of January, 1875,
the following proceedings were had in the cause on the application of Dennison: "Now, on this 26th day of January, 1875, comes William Dennison, the surviving trustee for certain bondholders of the Davenport
and St. Paul Railroad Company, who were defendants in the aboveentitled cause, and files with the clerk of this court a motion for a
new trial in this cause, on behalf of the said William Dennison,
surviving trustee as aforesaid, and brings into court a bond for
security for costs of retrial of said cause, as required by the statute
in such cases made and provided, and offers to be filed the answer
of the said surviving trustee- William Dennison. Whereupon, it
appearing to the court that the service upon the said survivirg
trustee was by publication only, and that he and those whom he
represents are entitled to a new trial under the law; and it further
appearing to the ourt that the said surviving trustee has furnished
security for the costs of new trial herein satisfactory to the s:1id
plaintiff, it is ordered by the court that a new trial in this cause be
granted to the said surviving trustee, William Dennison, that the
answer offered by, the said defendant be filed, and that this cause
stand continued to the next terni of this court."
On the 2d of February, the 6onstruction company filed a
motion in the cause, to strike the answer of Dennison from the
files because' it was not verified. This motion was granted at
the next term of the court, on the 17th of May, and the construction company thereupon asked for a judgment by default,
but oR the 19th of May an amended answer was filed on leave,
in which a defence was set up against the priority of the lien of
the construction company. On the same day, Lewi' H. Meye,
a citizen of the State of New York, claiming to have been

Oct. 187P.]

REMOVAL OASES.

appointed a trustee under the mortgage in the place of Thompson, moved the court to be substituted for Thompson as a party
to the suit. On the same day, and during the regular term of
the court, Meyer and Dennison filed with the clerk a petition
as follows: -

"1Inthe Circuit Court of Delaware County, Iowa.
"THE DELAWARE RAILROAD

CONSTRUCTION CO.

)

V.

Lrw's H. MEYER and WLumIrr DEN-wISoN, Trustees.

"Now come your petitioners, Lewis H. Meyer and Win. Dennison, trustees, and state :"That the Delaware Railroad Construction Company and all
persons who have come in as intervenors in the above entitled
cause are citizens of the State of Iowa; that Lewis H. Meyer is a
citizen of the State of New York, and William Dennison a citizen
of the State of Ohio.
"That they have reason to believe and do believe that from prejudice or local influence they will not be able to secure justice, by
reason of such prejudice or local influence.
"That said cause can be fillj and finally determined in the
United States Circuit Court for the District of Iowa.
"That the amount in controversy in said cause amounts to more
than the sum of five hundred dollars, exclusive of costs, and they
make and file in this court a bond, with good and sufficient security,
for their entering irk such Circuit Court, on the first day of its next
session, a copy of the records in said suit, and for paying all costs
that may be awarded by said Circuit Court, if said court shall hold
that said suit shall be wrongfully or improperly transferred thereto,
and also for the appearing and entering special bail in such suit, if
special bail was originally requisite therein, and they pray of said
court to accept said petition and bond, and order the transfer of
the said cause to the said Circuit Court of the United States."
This petition was not signed or sworn to, but was accompanied by a bond as follows: "In the Circuit Court of Delaware County, Iowa.
"Know all men by these presents, that we, Lewis H. Meyer and
William Dennison, principals, and John E. Henry and Charles
Whitaker, as sureties, are held and firmly bound unto the Delaware
Railroad Construction Company, and all other persons whom it may

REMOVAL OASES.

[Sup. Ct.

concern, in the penal sum of one thousand dollars, to which payment we bind ourselves and each of us by these presents. Given
under our hands this fifteenth day of May, 1875.
"The conditions of this obligation are these: the said Lewis H.
Meyer and William Dennison have applied to the Circuit Court of
said county to remove a certain cause pending in said court, wherein
the Delaware Railroad Construction Company are plaintiffs, and
the said Lewis H. Meyer, trustee, successor to John Edgar Thompson, and William Dennison, trustees, and many others are defend-

ants, from the said Circuit Court to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Iowa:
"1Now, if said Meyer and Dennison shall enter in the said Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Iowa, on the first
day of the next term thereof, a copy of the record of said suit, and
shall pay all the costs that may accrue or be awarded by sail Cir-*
cuit Court if it shall hold that said suit was wrongfully or improperly
removed thereto, and shall also appear and enter special bail in said
Circuit Court in said suit if special bail was originally required
therein, then this obligation shall be void; otherwise in full force.
"WiLIxt DENiqxSON and L. H. MEYER, Trustees.
"By GRANT and SMITH, Their Att'ys.
C. WHITAXER,
"JOHiN E. HENRY, Sureties."
Whitaker, one of the sureties, made affidavit that he -was
a citizen of Iowa, and worth double the amount of the bond
over and above all debts, and had property subject to execution. The further proceedings in the State court are thus
described in the decree:"And now, further, on the twenty-first day of May, 1875, this
cause coming on for further hearing, comes Lewis H. Meyer, by
Grant & Smith and L. M. Fisher, and asks to be made a party
defendant in this cause, and calls up his motion for that purpose,
filed in this cause on the nineteenth day of May, 1875, whereupon
plaintiff, by his attorney, objects to said Meyer being a party
defendant in this cause, for the reason that no evidence of the
appointment of said Meyer as trustee is before this court, and said motion and the objections thereto having been duly considered by the
court, it is ordered that the application of said Meyer to be made a
party defendant be refused, and the objections thereto be, and they
are, sustained; to which ruling of the court said Meyer, by his

Oct. 1879.]

REMOVAL OASES.

counsel, excepts, and asks that his exceptions in this behalf be
made a matter of record in this cause, which is accordingly done.
Plaintiff now offers in evidence the contract sued on in this cause,
whereupon the defendant, William Dennison, trustee, asks leave to
file an amended petition and bond for the transfer of this cause
to the United States Circuit Court, a petition and bond for that
purpose appearing to have been filed with the clerk of this court
on the twentieth day of May, 1875, one of the regular days of the
present term of court, to wit, on the twentieth day of May, 1875,
aforesaid; but no notice of the filing of the same having been
brought to the court, plaintiff, by its attorney, objects that the
bond is .insufficient, one surety being an attorney, and not eligible
as a surety on a bond in court under the law; and further, that
the application to transfer this cause is too late, the cause being
now reached for trial, and the trial of the same commenced;
whereupon the court sustained the objections of plaintiff in this
behalt; to which- ruling of the court the defendant, William Dennison, trustee, by his counsel, excepts, and asks that his exception
be made a matter of record, which is accordingly done, when,
pending further proceedings in said cause, court adjourns to May
22, 1875.
"And now, on this twenty-second day of May, 1875, it being one
of the days of the regular May Term, 1875, of said court, the court
proceeds with the further hearing of said cause; whereupon defendant William Dennison, trustee, now moves the court to proceed no
further with the trial of said cause, and asks that said defendant be
allowed to file a new bond for the transfer of said cause to the
United States Circuit Court, or to deposit money for costs of the
same. Plaintiff objects on the gr~und that the cause is now on
trial on its merits. Objection sustained, and said defendant, by his
counsel, excepts and asks that this, his exception, be made a matter
of record, which is accordingly done; whereupon plaintiff, by his
counsel, asks leave to file reply, to the filing of which defendant,
Dennison, by his counsel, objects. Objection overruled, and defendant, Dennison, by his counsel, excepts and asks that this, his
exception, be made a matter of record, which is accordingly done;
whereupon plaintiff files reply, and thereupon defendant, Dennison,
by his counsel, asks leave and files his amended answer, and the
court now proceeds with the trial of said cause on the issues joined
therein, and, after full hearing and argument of counsel, the same
is duly submitted to the court, and by consent of parties the court
takes the same under advisement, with the understanding that
VOL. X.

30

REmOVAL CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

judgment shall be rendered by the court in vacation, and entered as of the last day of this term. And the court finds the issues
in favor of plaintiff; and files and renders his decision that plaintiff's
lien is paramount to that of defendant, and orders judgment in
favor of said plaintiff.
"It is therefore ordered and adjudged and decreed that the lien
of said plaintiff is paramount to that of the. defendant, William
Dennison, trustee, &c.; and it is ordered, adjudged, and decreed
that the former decree and judgment of this court, rendered at the
May Term, A.D. 1874, -e confirmed, and that the plaintiff's claim
for a mechanic's lien, as prayed in his petitions, be established
as against the said defendants, upon the property described in the
decree in this suit at the February Term of this court, A.D. 1874,
and as therein established, against the Davenport and St. Paul
Railroad Company, and that the defendants be for ever barred and
foreclosed of and from all right of redemption of, in, or to said
property, and every part thereof; and that the rights of plaintiff be
declared to be superior and paramount to any and all claims and
rights of said defendants to the same or any part thereof; and that
the defendant, William Dennison, trustee, &c., pay the costs of the
retrial of this suit. Thus ordered, adjudged, and decreed, this fourteenth day of October,

A.D.

1875."

From this decree Dennison appealed to the Supreme Court
of the State, and there contended, among other things, that
the court below lost its jurisdiction by the filing of his petition and bond for the removal of the cause to the Circuit
Court. The court, however, decided otherwise and affirmed
the decree below. To reverse this judgment of the Supreme
Court a writ of error has been sued out of this court, and that
cause is the first of those mentioned in the title.
After the refusal of the State court to withhold further pro.
ceedings in the cause, Meyer and Dennison obtained from the
clerk of that court a copy of the record, and on the 9th of
October filed it in the clerk's office of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Iowa. This was the second
day of the next session of that court after the petition for removal, but the delay in filing was explained by an affidavit of
the clerk of the State court exonerating the defendants from
all blame. The cause was thereupon docketed in the Circuit
Court of the United States. On the 13th of October, 1875,

Oct. 1879.]

REMOVAL CASES.

the construction company moved that court to dismiss the suit
for want of jurisdiction. This motion was overruled, and on
the 14th of January, 1876, the parties stipulated that the case
should stand "as it stood at the time of the trial in the court
below after the filing of the petition for removal, but with
Lewis H. Meyer, a defendant, joining in the answer of Dennison," this agreement, however, "not to be regarded as a
waiver of the plaintiff's objections to the right of this court
to try this cause." Some further amendments were made in
the pleadings, and sone further stipulations entered into
by the parties to speed the cause, and on the 8th of June,
1876, after hearing both parties, a decree was rendered annulling the decrees of the State court and establishing the
lien of the mortgage over that of the construction company.
From that decree the construction company appealed to this
court, and that appeal is the second of the causes named in
the title.
On the 4th of May, 1875, proceedings were commenced by
Meyer and Dennison in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the foreclosure of their mortgage. To this suit the railroad
company, the cbnstruction company, and the Delaware County
Railroad Company, with others, were defendAnts. In an answer the construction company asserted the priority of its lien,
and the Delaware County Railroad Company claimed title to
the railroad in Delaware County under the sheriff's sale in the
suit in the State court, free of the lien of the mortgage. On
the 8th of June, 1876, this part of the controversy in the Meyer
and Dennison suit "its heard in the Circuit Court, and resulted
in a decree establishing the superiority of the mortgage lien
over that of the construction company and the setting aside of
the decrees of the State court against Thompson and Dennison,
as well as the sheriff's sale and deed under which the Delaware
County Railroad Company claimed. From this decree the construction company and the Delaware County Railroad Company
appealed, and that appeal is the last of the suits mentioned in
the title. No other part of the suit commenced by Meyer and
Dennison has been brought up on this appeal, except that
which relates to the priority of liens and the, title of the
Delaware County Railroad Company.

REmOVAL CASES.

[[Sup.

".

Mr. George G. Wright and 31r. 31ason W. Tyler for Meyer.
Mr. James Grant and Mr. Joseph 1f. Choate, contra.
MR. CHIEF JusTIcE WAITE, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
Three principal questions are presented by these cases.
They are: 1. Was the suit pending in the State court one which
could by law be removed to the Circuit Court of the United
States ?
2. If it could, was the application for removal made in time,
and was it sufficient in form to effect a transfer? and,
3. If the transfer was lawfully made, are the decrees of the
Circuit Court, giving the mortgage priority over the mechanic's
lien and the title of the Delaware County Railroad Company,
right?
These will be considered in their order.
1. As to the right of removal.
The act of March 3, 1875 (18 Stat., part 3, 470), was in
force wheD the application for removal was made, but not
when the new trial was granted to Dennison. The second
section of that Act contains, among others, the following provision: "That any suit of a civil nature, at law or in equity,
now pending . . . in any State court, where the matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive of costs, the sum or value of five hundred dollars, . . . in which there shall be a controversy between
citizens of different States, . . . either party may remove said
suit into the Circuit Court of the United States for the proper
district."
This we understand to mean that when the controversy
about which a suit in the State court is brought is between
citizens of one or more States on one side, and citizens of other
States on the other side, either party to the controversy may
remove the suit to the Circuit Court, without regard to the
position they occupy in the pleadings as plaintiffs or defendants. For the purposes of a removal the matter in dispute
may be ascertained, and the parties to the suit arranged on
opposite sides of that dispute. If in such arrangement it
appears that those on one side are all citizens of different

Oct. 1879.]

8REMOVAL CASES.

States from those on the other, the suit may be removed.
Under the old law the pleadings only were looked at, and the
rights of the parties in respect to a removal were determined
solely according to the position they occupied as plaintiffs or'
defendants in the suit. Coal Cornpany v. Blatchford, 11 Wall.
174. Under the new law the mere form of the pleadings may
be put aside, and the parties placed on different sides of the
matter in dispute according to the facts. This being done,
when all those on one side desire a removal, it may be had, if
the necessary citizenship exists.
In the present case, it appears that the suit was originally
brought by a citizen of Iowa against' another citizen of Iowa
and citizens of Pennsylvania and Ohio. There were then,
according to the pleadings, two matters about which there
might be dispute, - one between the construction company
and the railroad company, both citizens of Iowa, as to the
amount due the construction company and the actual existence of a mechanic's lien, and the other between the construction company and the trustees of the mortgage, citizens
of different States, as to the priority of the mortgage over
the mechanic's lien. But before the trustees of the mortgage were actually brought into court by service of process, the dispute between the construction company and
the railroad company had been finally disposed of. The
amount due the construction company had been ascertained
so far as that company and the railroad company were concerned, the mechanic's lien established, and the property sold
under the lien to pay the debt. There was after that nothing
left of the suit except that part which related solely and exclusively to the priority of the mortgage lien, and as to this
the controversy was between the construction company on the
one side, and the mortgage trustees on the other. If the railroad company still continued a party to the suit, it was a nomi
nal party only, and its interests were in no way whatever
connected with those of the trustees. It did .not, therefore,
occupy a position in the controversy on the same side with
them. This being the case, it is apparent that in the then
conidition of the suit the only controversy to be settled was
between the mortgage trustees, citizens of Pehnsylvania and

REMOVAL CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Ohio, on one side, and the construction company and railroad
company, citizens of Iowa, on the other. As such, under the
construction we have given this provision of the statute, the
suit was removable by reason of that provision. This makes
it unnecessary to give an interpretation to that part of the
same section of the act of 1875, which, for the purposes of
statement, may be read as follows: "That any suit of a civil nature, at law or in equity, now
pending or hereafter brought in any State court, when the matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive of costs, the sum or value of
$500, . . . in which there shall be a controversy which is
wholly between citizens of different States, and which can be
fully determined as 'between them, then either one or more of
the plaintiffs or defendants actually interested in such controversy may remove said suit into the Circuit Court of the United
States for the proper district."
We reserve the consideration of this provision until a case
requiring it arises. This suit, when the petition for removal
was filed, was one in which the only controversy to be decided
was between citizens of different States, and therefore provided
for in the first clause. Necessarily a removal would take the
whole suit to the Circuit Court, because, in its then condition,
the suit related to a single controversy only. Whether, as
argued, a removal could also have been had under the last
clause, we do not decide.
2. As to the removal.
The third section of the act of 1875, so far as it is applicable to this case, reads as follows: "That, whenever either party, . . . entitled to remove any suit
mentioned in the next preceding section, shall desire to remove such
suit from a State court to the Circuit Court of the United States, he
or.they may make and file a petition in such suit in such State court
before or at the term at which said cause could be first tried, and
before the trial thereof for the removal of such suit into the Circuit
Court, to be held in the district where such suit is pending, and
shall make and file therewith a bond, with good and suffivient surety,
for his or their entering into such circuit court, on the first day of
its then next session, a copy of the record in such suit, and for paying all costs that may be awarded by the said Circuit Court, if said

Oct. 1879.]

9REMOVAL CASES.

court shall hold that such suit was wrongfully or improperly removed thereto, and also for their appearing and entering special
bail in such suit, if special bail was originally requisite therein, it
shall then be the duty of the State court to accept said petition and
bond, and proceed no further in such suit, and any bail that may
have been originally taken shall be discharged ; and the said copy
being entered as aforesaid in said Circuit Court of the United States,
the cause shall then proceed in the same manner as if it had been
originally commenced in said Circuit Court?'
The petition filed in this case was sufficient in form.
Enough appeared on its face to entitle the petitioner to his
removal. While it included a statement of belief that, from
prejudice or local influence, justice could not be secured by a
trial in the State court, no affidavit to that effect was filed ;
and this statement could be rejected as surplusage, leaving still
good cause for the removal on account of the citizenship of the
parties. Although Meyer's name was included as a petitioner,
that of Dennison was included also; and, as Meyer was not a
party to the suit, his name could be rejected as surplusage, and
the petition left to stand as that of Dennison alone. The paper
was evidently drafted and put on file under the belief that
Meyer would be substituted for Thompson as a party to the
suit. This having been unexpectedly refused, it was presented
to the court by the counsel of Dennison, without amendment,
as in legal effect the petition of Dennison alone. This, we
think, might lawfully be done. Under the circumstances, it
was the duty of the court to treat the application as coming
from Dennison only.
The petition was not signed. No objection was made on this
account in the State court; and it came too late in the Circuit
Court. If it had been made in the State court, the defect- if
in fact there was one - would, no doubt, have been cured at
once by the signature of counsel. The petition was in writing.
On its face, it purported to be the petition of Meyer and Dennison; and it was in fact the petition of Dennison. This the
court knew, because it was actually presented by the counsel of
Dennison, and was accompanied by a bond purporting also to
be signed in the name of Meyer and Dennison. In short,
every thing in the whole proceeding showed that it was in

REMOVAL CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

fact what, under the circumstances, it purported to be, - the
application of Dennison, made in good faith, for the removal of
the cause.
The bond was sufficient in form. The condition was such as
the statute required. There was no special bail in the case.
Nothing was, therefore, to be secured by the bond but the filing of the transcript in the Circuit Court, on the first day of
its then next term, and the payment of any costs that might be
awarded by that court, in case it should hold that the suit had
been wrongfully or improperly removed. No objection was
made to the sufficiency of the surety. The only complaint
seems to have been that one of the persons who signed the
bond as a surety was an attorney of the court, which was forbidden by the laws of Iowa and the practice of the State court.
Without determining whether this would have julstified the
court in not accepting the bond, if he had been the only surety,
it is sufficient to say that the act of Congress does not make it
necessary that two persons should sign the bond as sureties.
"Good and sufficient surety " is all that is required ; and this
is satisfied if there is one surety able to respond to the condition of the bond. The question here is not whether the court
below had the right to pass upon the sufficiency of the surety,
but whether, upon the facts as they appear in this record, it was
justified in refusing to accept this bond. We are now examining the case after judgment below in reference to errors whicli
are alleged to have occurred in the progress of the cause. If
the State court refuses to accept a bond offered by a petitioner
for removal which has "good and sufficient surety" in law, it
is error that may be reviewed here. That court has no discretion in such a matter. Its action is governed by fixed rules.
Here, as no objection was made to the pecuniary responsibility
of the one person who signed as surety, and was competent
under the laws of Iowa to do s6, it was clearly error for the
court to refuse to accept the bond because a second surety was
an attorney of the court. Such being the case, we are clearly
of opinion that, so far as the form of the application was concerned, the State court was not justified in refusing to accept
the petition and bond, and in proceeding further in the cause.
We think also the application was made in time. It is con

Oct. 1879.]

O

.EIOVALOASES.

ceded that the petition was filed during the first term of the
court at which the suit could be tried, after the act of 1875
weut into operation. It has, so far, as we know, been unifonily held on the circuit, and to our minds correctly, that, in
suits pending when the act was passed, the application was
in time, if made at the first term of the court thereafter.
.Baker v. Peterson, 4 Dill. 562; Hoadley v. San Francisco,
3 Saw. 553; Andrews v. Garrett, 2 Cent. Law Jour. 797;
ie 31erctaizts' &. Manufacturers' National Bank v. Wheeler,
13 Blatch. 218; Crane v. Reeder, 15 Alb. Law Jour. 103.
This disposes of one objection made to the time when the
petition was filed.
It has, however, been argued with great earnestness that the
petition for removal was not actually presented to the court
"before trial." We agree that, as a general rule, the petition
must be filed in a way that it may be said to have been in law
presented to the court before the trial is in good faith entered
upon. There may be exceptions to this rule; but we think it
clear that Congress did not intend, by the expression "before
trial," to allow a party to experiment on his case in the State
court, and, if he met with unexpected difficulties, stop the proceeding., and take his suit to another tribunal. But, to bar
the right of removal, it must appear that the trial had actually
begun and was in progress in the orderly course of proceeding
when the application was made. No mere attempt of one party
to get himself on the record as having begun the trial will be
enough. The case must be actually on trial by the court, all
parties acting in good faith, before the right of removal is gone.
Upon the facts in this case it is apparent, to our minds, that
the trial had in no sense begun when Dennison presented his
petition formally to the court for a removal. It is equally
apparent that the counsel for the construction company attempted to get up a race of diligence with his adversary, in
which he should come out ahead. As soon as the court decided not to admit Meyer as a party to the suit, he seems to
have offered the contract sued on in evidence; but, unfortunately for him, in so doing he did not keep himself inside the
brderly course of proceedings. It is evident that at that time
the eal-se was not up for hearing on its merits; and it nowhere

474

REMOVAL CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

appears that the court accepted then the offer of the counsel to
put in his evidence. Before any action was taken by the court
on that subject, Dennison presented his petition, which had
been on file ready to be presented, as soon as the motion of
Meyer was "decided. Immediately after the application of Dennison was disposed of, the court adjourned uiitil the next day;
and, when it again met, Dennison renewed his application.
This being refused, the construction company asked leave to
file a reply, which up to that time had not been donb, and
which was necessary to complete the pleadings, and make up
the issues for trial. That being done, and a motion by Dennison for leave to amend his answer overruled, the court proceeded "with the trial of said cause on the issues joined
therein."
A statement of these facts is 'sufficient to show
that, when Dennison presented his petition in form to the
court, the trial had in no just sense began. As in the case of
Yiuee v. Vose (99 U. S. 539), "the most that can be said is,
that preparations were being made for trial."
It is further claimed that the citizenship of Dennison in
Ohio was not proved. As in the case of the sufficiency of the
bond, the question here is not whether, if the statements of the
petitioner in that particular had been denied, it would have been
competent for the State cou.rt to institute an inquiry on that
subject, but whether, on the facts as they appear on the face
of this record, which also shows how they should have appeared
to the court below, that court was justified in proceeding
further in the suit. We fully recognize the principle heretofore asserted in many cases, that the State court is not required
to let go its jurisdiction until a case is made which, upon its
face, shows that the petitioner can remove the cause as a
matter of right. But here, to say nothing of the statements in
the petition which were not disputed, the record is full of
evidence that Dennison was a citizen of Ohio. In the mortgage Thompson is described as of Pennsylvania, and Dennison
as of Ohio. In addition to this, in order to bring them into
court, the affidavit of the counsel for the construction company
was put on file, in which it is directly stated, un'der date of
April 6, 1874, that personal service of process could not be
made on them within the State, and that they were non-resi-

Oct. 1879.]

9REMOVAL OASES.

dents. Under these circumstances, it was certainly error for
the State court to retain the cause because it was not shown
that the citizenship of the adverse parties was in different
States. The citizenship of the two corporations in Iowa is
averred by the construction company in its own pleadings.
It is still farther claimed that even though the lower court
ought to have accepted the petition and bond and withheld all
further proceedings in the suit, that error was waived by the
rubsequent appearance of Dennison and going to a hearing,
and that for this reason it was right for the Supreme Court
not to reverse the judgment because of the original fault.
This question is settled by the case of Insurance Company v.
.Dunn, 19 Wall. 214, where it is distinctly held that if a party
failed in his efforts to obtain a removal and was forced to trial,
he lost none of his rights by defending against th& action.
This record is full of protests on the part of Dennison against
going on with the suit, and of exceptions to the ruling which
kept him in court. Indeed, it is difficult to see what more he
could have done than he did do to get out of court and take
his suit with him. He remained simply because he was forced
to remain, and is certainly now in a condition to have the
original error of which he complained corrected in any court
having jurisdiction for that purpose. In addition to this, we
now know that he did take his suit to the Circuit Court and
carried his adversaries with him. It is true, by reason of the
fault of the clerk of the State court, he was unable to file his
transcript of the record in the Circuit Court on the first day of
the term, but he did so on the second, and had the cause
regularly docketed, after which a trial was had, all parties
appearing. It is also true that the construction company
objected to the delay, but that objecti6n was, as we think,
prop~erly overruled.
While the act of Congress requires
security that the transcript shall be filed on the first day, it
nowhere appears that the Circuit Court is to be deprived of
its jurisdiction if, by accident, the party is delayed until a
later day in the term. If the Circuit Court, for good cause
shown, accepts the transfer after the day and during the term,
its jurisdiction will, as a general rule, be complete and the
removal properly effected.

REMOVAL CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

We must, therefore, hold that the Supreme Court of the
State erred in not reversing the judgment of the Circuit Court
of the county and sending the cause back with instructions to
that court to proceed no further with the suit.
3. As to the priority of liens.
It is conceded that by the laws of Iowa a mechanic's lien for
work done under a contract takes precedence of all incumbrances put on the property by mortgage or otherwise after the
work was commenced. Such has been the uniform course of
decisions by the highest court of the State.
It is also conceded that, by a statute of the State (Code
1874, sect. 385), there can be no mechanic's lien in favor of
one who takes collateral security on the contract under which
he does his work.
Such being the law, it is clear that as the mortgage was not
recorded until June 4, 1872, and work under the contract of
the 'onstruction company was commenced Sept. 29, 1870, the
mechanic's lien must have precedence, unless the construction
company took collateral security on their contract, or something equivalent was done.
. It is contended that the words, "all the money for ihe work
hereinbefore specified to be paid by the citizens of Delaware
County," which appear above the signature of the president of
the railroad company to the contract, give the construction
company collateral security, and thus vitiate the lien. We
cannot so interpret the contract. In the body of the instrument the obligation of the railroad company to pay is absolute
and unconditional. The additional clause does not purport to
transfer to the construction company the moneys that are due
or that may become due from the citizens of Delaware County.
No control is given the construction company over these
moneys. The most that can be said of the clause is that it
contains an implied obligation on the part of the railroad company to use the money which came into its hands from the
citizens of Delaware County to discharge its obligations under
the contract, and a corresponding obligation on the part of the
construction company to wait a reasonable time for the collection of these moneys before putting the railroad company in
default for non-payment.

Oct. 1879.]

REMOVAL CASES.

In CT7ristrnas v. Russell (14 Wall. 69), we said: "An
agreement to pay out of a particular fund, however clear its
terms, is not an equitable assignment; a covenant in the most
solemn form has no greater effect. . . . The assignor must not
retain any control over the fund, any power to collect, or any
power of revocation. If he do, it is fatal to the claim of the
assignee." It seems to us that this is conclusive of the present
case. The railroad company has nowhere by its agreement
given the construction company any power to collect. The
amount due is nowhere specified; neither does it appear from
the instrument itself what was the nature of the obligations the
citizens of Delaware County were under to make the payment.
It is not even said that the payments thus to be made grew
out of any obligations of the citizens of Delaware County to
the railroad company. According to the construction claimed,
the addition of these somewhat indefinite words at the end
of the contract, and after a part of the signatures had been
affixed, must have the effect of changing the whole tenor of
the contract as set out in the body of the instrument, and substituting the citizens of Delaware County as obligors and
bound absolutely for the payment of the work to be performed,
instead of the railroad company. Such we cannot believe was
the intention of the parties, and every thing which occurred
afterwards is entirely inconsistent with any such idea. It now
appears from the evidence that there had been very considerable subscriptions to the capital stock of the railroad company
by the citizens of Delaware County, and that taxes had been
levied by the county, or some of the towoships in the county,
to aid in the construction of the railroad. It also appears that
all of this money was collected by and paid to the railroad
company. In no single instance, so far as we can discover',
was it paid to the construction company. The full amount
subscribed and levied was not sufficient to pay all that was due
that company. Much of it was paid over, but all of it was
not. Of the amount paid the construction company by the
railroad company a very considerable portion was collected
from other sources.
Without pursuing the subject further, it is sufficient to say
that, in our opinion, the construction company has done noth-

REMOVAL CASES.

[Sup. Ot.

ing to waive or deprive it of the right to assert a mechanic's
lien, and that the decrees of the Circuit Court establishing the
superiority of the lien of the mortgage were wrong and must
be reversed. As the sale under the execution from the State
court, by which the Delaware County Railroad Company now
holds and claims title was made in a suit to which the trustees
of the mortgage were not at the time parties served with process, the sale did not cut off their interest as mortgagees of the
property sold. Neither are they bound by the decree in the
.State court finding the amount due the construction company.
The Delaware County Railroad Company took by its purchase
only such title as the construction company had to convey, and
as the interest of the mortgagees was not cut off by the sale to
the construction company, it is not cut off by the transfer
to the Delaware County Company.
We, therefore, order and adjudge as follows :
1. That the judgment of the Supreme Court of Iowa be
reversed with costs, and that the cause be remanded, with
instructions to reverse the decree of the Circuit Court of
Delaware County, and direct that court to proceed no further
with the suit.
2. That the decree of the Circuit Court of the United States
in the second of these cases be reversed with costs, and that
the cause be remanded with instructions to ascertain the
amount due the Construction Company under its contract,
and to enter a decree establishing the lien of that company as
prior in right to that of the mortgage, and in default of payment of the amount due by a day to be named, directing the
sale of that part of the railroad company which lies in Delaware County, to pay the debt. Such provision for redemp.
tion is to be made as is allowed in such cases by the laws of
Iowa.
S. The decree of the Circuit Court in the remaining case
is also reversed with costs, and the cause remanded with
instructions to enter a - decree establishing the lien of the
Construction Company as superior to that of the mortgage,
and declaring the title of the Delaware County Railroad
Company, by reason of the sheriff's sale in the State court
to be invalid and not sufficient to pass title as against the

Oct. 1879.]

0REMOVAL
CASES.

lien of the mortgage, and for such other proceedings as justice
requires.
MR. JUSTICE STRONG concurred in the judgment, but not in

the construction given by the majority of the court to the
second section of the act of 1875, respecting removals from
State courts.
MIR. JUSTICE BRADLEY concurred in the judgment, and delivered the following opinion in which MR. JUSTICE SWAYNE
concurred.
I concur in the judgment in these cases, but dissent from so
much of the opinion as seems to assume that. one condition of
Federal jurisdiction, in the removal of a cause from a State
court, under the first clause of sect. 2, act of 1875, is, that each
party on one side of the controversy must be a citizen of a
different State from that of which either of the parties on the
other side is a citizen. This portion of the act gives the right
of removal to either party, in any suit in which there is "a
controversy between citizens of different States." In my judgment a controversy is such, as that expression is used in the
Constitution, and in the law, when any of the parties on one
side thereof are citizens of a different State, or States, from
that of which any of the parties on the other side are citizens.
It is true, if there are other parties on opposite sides of the
controversy who are citizens of a common State, it may also
be a controversy between citizens of the same State. In other
-words, a controversy may be, at the same time, both a controversy between citizens of the same State and between citizens
of different States. But the fact that it is both, does not
take away the Federal jurisdiction. Neither the Constitution, nor the law, declares that there shall not be such jurisdiction if any of the contestants on opposite sides of the
controversy are citizens of the same State; but they do declare that there shall be such jurisdiction if the controversy
is between citizens of different States. The gift of judicial
power by the Constitution, and the gift of jurisdiction by the
law, are in affirmative terms; and those terms include as well
the case when only part cf the contestants opposed to each

REMOVAL CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

other are citizens of different States, as that in which they are
all of different States. And I see no good reason why both
the Constitution and the law should not receive a construction
as broad as that of the terms which they employ. On the contrary, I think there is just reason for giving to those terms
their full effect. The object of extending the judicial power
to controversies between citizens of different States was, to
establish a common and impartial tribunal, equally related to
both parties, for the purpose of deciding between them. This
object would be defeated in- many cases if the fact that a single
one of many contestants on one side of a controversy being a
citizen of the same State with one or more of the contestants
on the other side, should have the effect of depriving the Federal courts of jurisdiction. This absurdity became so glaring
under the construction fornierly given by this court to the
Judiciary Act of 1789, in the case of corporations, when every
stockholder was held to be a party, that the court was at
length impelled to regard a corporation as a citizen of the
State which created it, without regard to the citizenship of its
members ; - thus getting rid of the troublesome stockholder
who happened to be a citizen of the same State with the opposite party, and who almost always appeared in the case.
If we give the same construction to the present law which
was given to the Judiciary Act, we shall certainly meet with
like embarrassment and -difficulty in exercising the fair and
proper jurisdiction of the Federal courts. No cases are more
appropriate to this jurisdiction, or more urgently call for its
exercise, than those which relate to the foreclosure and sale of
railroads extending into two or more States, and winding up
the affairs of the companies that own them; since, in addition
to the convenience of a single jurisdiction having cognizance
of the whole matter (which could readily be conferred, if it is
not so) the local tribunals in such cases, however upright and
pure, are naturally more or less favorably affected towards the
interests of their own citizens: and yet, it is almost always
essential, in order to do complete justice in these cases, to call
before the court some parties on opposite sides of the controversy who are citizens of the same State. If this fact is to
deprive the Federal courts of jurisdiction, without regard to

Oct. 1879.]

CASES.
Oct. 879.]REMOVAL

the numerous and important contestants on opposite sides who
are citizens of different States, the value of the institution of
national courts, for taking cognizance of controversies between
citizens of different States, will be greatly impaired.
But it seems to me clear that, in construing the present law,
we are not bound by the construction given to the old Judiciary
Act. The words of that act, conferring jurisdiction upon the
circuit courts in respect of citizenship, were not the same as
those used by the present law or by the Constitution. It only
conferred jurisdiction when "the suit is between a citizen of
the State where the suit is brought and a citizen of another
State." The singular number only was used; and the courts,
in applying the law to cases in which there was a plurality of
plaintiffs or defendants, construed it (perhaps justly) as requiring that each plaintiff and each defendant should have the
citizenship required by the law. But, now, it is not so. The
present law follows the words of the Constitution, and gives
jurisdiction to the circuit courts in the broadest terms, namely,
whenever, in any suit, there is "a controversy between citizens
of different States; " and this broad and general expression, as
I think I have shown, gives jurisdiction where any of the contestants on opposite sides of the controversy are citizens of
different States.
The only objection to this construction which has been seriously pressed, is drawn from the argument ab inconvenienti;
namely, that if in a controversy where the contestants are
numerous, a single case of diverse citizenship between opposite
parties should give Federal jurisdiction, the courts of the
United States would be overwhelmed with business, litigants
would be unnecessarily drawn away from the domestic tribunals, and the intent of the Constitution would be subverted.
Now whilst I am satisfied that the apprehended inconveniences
are greatly exaggerated, the inconveniences which would result from a contrary interpretation to that contended for
would be at least equally great in depriving the Federal courts
of jurisdiction by a single case of common citizenship between
opposite parties, though a large majority of the opposing litigants are citizens of different States; and, thus, one inconvenience would balance the other, and we should still be left to
VOL.

X.

31

REMOvAL OASES.

[Sup. Ot.

seek the true construction of the Constitution and the law
from the words which they use. But the inconveniences
would not be equal. To deprive the Federal courts of jurisdiction by a partial community of citizenship between the
opposite parties would, in many instances, actually defeat the
very object which the Constitution and the law have in view.
Ven if it should happen that, upon the construction contended for, many cases might be brought into the Federal
courts in which a partial community of citizenship did exist
between the opposing parties, what harm would ensue? Ought
it not to be presumed that the courts, which are courts of the
common country of all the parties, will as well do equal and
exact justice between them as the State courts could do ? If
the judicial force is not sufficient to meet the exigency, let it
be increased. If the courts are not held at sufficiently convenient places, that difficulty can easily be removed. The
phrase in question, "controversies between citizens of different
States," is a constitutional one; and the construction which
we may give to it will affect the judicial powers of the Federal
government for all time; and any temporary inconvenience
arising from existing arrangements, which can be remedied by
legislation, ought not to stand in the way of a fair construction
of the organic law.
But it is not necessary to pass upon this question in this
case. The present controversy is wholly between citizens of
different States ; and we are all agreed as to the decision that
ought to be made. When the question does come squarely
before us, and it becomes necessary to decide it, it is to be
hoped that it may receive the fullest consideration.

