Oct. 1879.]

COUNTY OF CASS v. GILLETT.

COUNTY OF CASS v. GnnLETT.
1. The court adheres to its rulings in County of Henry v. Nicolay (95 U. S. 619),
that the provisions of sect. 14, art. 11, of the Constitution adopted by Missouri in 1865, which require the assent of two-thirds of the qualified voters
of a county to a subscription on its behalf for stock in a corporation, do not
apply to cases where such subscription is made for stock in a railroad
company pursuant to the power conferred by its charter granted prior to
the adoption of that Constitution, notwithstanding the contemplated road
is a branch road, the construction of which, although authorized by such
charter, is undertaken as an independent enterprise under the act of March
21, 1868, entitled "An Act to aid in the building of branch railroads in the
State of Missouri."
2. Where the company authorized a committee to take charge of the construction of such road, and solicit subscriptions in the name of the cqmpany to
the use of such branch, and it subsequently assigned a portion of its franchises to another company, -Held, that the branch being thus organized
and invested with the powers and privileges conferred by the charter of the
company to enable It to prosecute the work, a subscription by a county
through which, such road passed is not rendered invalid by the fact that
when made such partial assignment by the company of its franchises had
taken place.
3. Where the county court made an order to subscribe to the capital stock of the
company for the use of one of its branches, and issued county bonds which
were accepted by the construction committee, in payment, -Held, that
an actual manual subscription on the books of the company was not necessary to entitle the county to the stock, or to bind it as a subscriber thereto.
4. A tona fide purchaser of negotiable securities before their maturity is not
affected with constructive notice of a suit respecting them. County of
warren v. 1arcy (97 U. S. 107) cited on this point and approved.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Missouri.
This action was brought against the county of Cass, Missouri,
on certain interest coupons or warrants detached from bonds
purporting to be issued by the county court of that county.
The following is a copy of one of the bonds and of a coupon
thereto annexed: NITED STATES OF AMERICA.

"$1,000.]

[County Bond No. 66
" COUNTY OF CASS, STATE OF MfIssourm

"Interest ten p6r cent per annum, payable on the first days of
August and February,in New York.
"Know all men by these presents, that the county of Cass, in
the State of Missouri, acknowledges itself indebted and. firmly

COUNTY OF CASS

v. GILLETT.

[Sup. Ct.

bound to the Tebo and Neosho Railroad Company, to the use and
benefit and in the name of the Clinton and Kansas City Branch of
the Tebo and Neosho Railroad, in the sum of $1,000, which sum
the said county, for value received, hereby promises to pay to the
Tebo and Neosho Railroad Company, or bearer, to aid in building
the said branch railroad, at the National Park Bank, in the city
of New York, in the State of New York, on the first day of February, A.D. 1891, redeemable, however, at the option of the county
court of said county at any time after the lapse of five years after
the date hereof, together with interest thereon from the first day
of February, 1871, until paid, at the rate of ten per centum per
annum, which interest shall be payable semi-annually, on the first
days of August and February of each year, on presentation and
delivery at said bank of the coupons of interest hereto severally
attached. This bond is issued under and in pursuance of an order
of the county court of the county of Cass, in the State of Missouri,
and in pursuance of and by authority of an act of the General Assembly of the State of Missouri, entitled 'An Act to incorporate the
Tebo and Neosho Railroad Company,? approved Jan. 16, 1860,
and of an act of the General Assembly of the State of Missouri,
entitled 'An Act to aid in the building of branch railroads in
the State of Missouri,' approved March 21, A.D. 1868. In testimony whereof; the said county of Cass has executed this bond, by
the presiding justice of the county court of Cass County, under the
order of said court, signing his name hereto, and by the clerk of
said court, under the order thereof, attesting the same and affixing
the seal of said court, at the town of Harrisonville, county of Cass,
aforesaid, this first day of February, A.D. 1871.
" JEmIEL C. STEVENSON,

"Presiding Justice of the County Court of Cass County, Missouri.

"Attest:
"C. H. Donn,
"Clerk of the County Court of Cass County, Missouri.

[SEAL OF' CAss COUNTY counT.]

"$50.] Harrsonville, Cass County, .Missouri,Feb. 1, 1871. [$50.
"The County of Cass acknowledges itself to owe and promises
to pay to the bearer fifty dollars, on the first day of August, 1873,
at the National Park Bank, in the city and State of New York,
being semi-annual interest on bond No. 66.
Clerk

"C. H. DORE,

Clerk of'Cass County Court, Missouri."

The Tebo and Neosho Railroad Company mentioned in the
bond was incorporated Jan. 16, 1860, by an act of the General

Oct. 1879.]

COUNTY OF CAss v. GILLETT.

Assembly of Missouri (Acts of Mo., 1860, p. 402), the eighth
section of which reads as follows: "The 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th,
12th, 13th, 14th, 15th, 16th, 17th, 18th, 19th, 20th, 21st, and
22d sections of an act entitled ' An Act to incorporate the
Osage Valley and Southern Kansas Railroad Company, approved
Nov. 21, 1857,' are hereby re-enacted, and declared to be applicable to the company hereby incorporated; and all powers
therein contained are extended to the Missouri, Tebo, and Neosho
Railroad Company." The charter of said Osage Valley, &c.,
Railroad Company is set forth in the acts of that State for 1857,
p. 50, and its fourteenth section provides that "it shall be lawful for the county court of any county in which any part of the
route of said railroad or its branches may be, or any county
adjacent thereto, to subscribe to the stock of the company;
and, for the stock subscribed in behalf of the county, may issue
the bonds of the county to raise the funds to pay the same."
The act of incorporation authorizes the company to construct a
road between certain points, and "to extend branch railroads
into and. through any counties that the directors may deem
advisable."
The fourteenth section of the eleventh article of the Constitution of Missouri, adopted in- 1865, declares that- "the
General Assembly shall not authorize any county, city, or
town to become a stockholder in, or to loan its credit to,
any company, association, or corporation, unless two-thirds
of the qualified voters of such county, city, or town, at a
regular or special election to be held therein, shall assent
thereto."
The act of March 21, 1868, recited in said bonds in connection with the act of Jan. 16, 1860, as the authority for issuing
them, is set forth in the case of County of Henry v. .Nicolay,
95 U. S. 619.
Proceeding under its charter and the provisions of the branch
railroad act, the directory of the Tebo and NeosLo Railroad
Company adopted, on the 6th of June, 1870, a resolution
establishing a braich, to be known as the "Clinton and Kansas
City Branch," designating its point of intersection with the
main line and its general course. A copy of it was filed with
the Secretary of State. At the same time, a committee was

COUNTY OF

CASS

v.

GILLETT.

[Sup. Ct.

appointed to take charge of the construction of the branch, and
authorized to solicit subscriptions in the name of the company
to the use of the branch.
On the 11th of October, 1870, the Tebo and Neosho Railroad Company entered into a contract with the Missouri,
Kansas, and Texas Railway Company, organized and doing
business under the laws of the State of Kansas, by the terms
of which the former company sells and conveys to the latter
"all its privileges, rights, powers, franchises, real estate, and
other property, the whole or a part of which is in this State,
excepting only such as belong to the extension of the Tebo
and Neosho line, north from Sedalia via Boonville," &c., "and
doth consent to a merger of the same with the franchises,
property, and rights of said party of the second part; and
the said Missouri, Kansas, and Texas Railway Company, party
of the second part, shall have, exercise, and enjoy all the
rights, powers, privileges, and immunities of the original charter of the Tebo and Neosho Railroad Company, and of the
several amendments thereto, in the same manner and to the
same extent as has heretofore been exercised and enjoyed
by the said party of the first part, or by the several shareholders in said company, whose stock shall be exchanged as
herein provided, either or both; and the said party of the
second part does hereby accept the terms and conditions of
the within instrument." The contract was filed and recorded
in the office of the Secretary of State on the 4th of January,
1871.
On the 28th of February, 1871, upon the application of the
committee appointed by the resolution of June 6, 1870, the
county court of Cass County, by an order of record, subscribed for "three thousand shares of the capital stock of the
Tebo and Neosho Railroad Company (now in part the Missouri, Kansas, and Texas Railway Company), in the name of
and for thi use and benefit of the Clinton and Kansas City
Branch of the Tebo and Neosho Railroad, and to aid in the
construction thereof, each share being of the denomination
of. $100, and amounting in the aggregate to the sum of
$800,000," &c.
The remaining facts are set forth in the opinion of the court.

Oct. 1879.]

COUNTY OP CASS v. GiLLumr.

The case was tried by the court, which made a special finding
of the facts. A judgment was rendered for the plaintiff below,
and the county then sued out this writ.
The following are the errors assigned:1. The charter of the Tebo and Neosho Railroad Company
did not authorize the county court of Cass County to issue the
bonds in question, in the, absence of the assent of two-thirds of
the qualified voters of said county, and the court below erred
in holding that such power existed.
2. The act of the Missouri legislature of Jan. 14, 1860,
required as a condition precedent to the subscribing of stock
to a railroad company, and the issue of bonds to pay therefor,
that an election should be held in the county to test the sense
of the tax-payers of the county, on the question of making the
subscription and issuing the bonds, and the court erred in
holding otherwise.
3. Said company, at the time of the subscription by Cass
County to the stock of the branch road, had sold all its interest in and control over the alleged branch road, and had no
authority to receive subscriptions of stock for such branch
road, or to contract for the issue of bonds on account of such
subscription, nor could the branch road receive such subscriptions or make such contract; and the court erred in holding otherwise.
4. The county court had no authority to issue the bonds in
question, because, by the judgment of a court of competent
jurisdiction, they have been restrained from issuing said bonds;
and the court below erred in holding otherwise.
5. It does not appear from the finding of the facts by the
c~urt that the county court of Cass County made any valid
contract with said company, or any other person or company,
for the issue of stock to said county, nor that there was, in
fact, any valid subscripti6n by said county court to the stock
of any company; and the court therefore erred in rendering
judgment for the plaintiff below, on the special finding of
facts.
The case was argued by Mr. James 0. Broadhead for the
plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Thomas . Skinker for the defendant in error.

COUNTY OP OASS v. GILLETT.

[Sup. Ct.

MI. JuSTICE, BRADLFY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is almost precisely similar to that of County of
Henry v. .Yicolay (95 U. S. 619), the authority for issuing
the bonds being claimed under the same charter (that of the
Tebo and Neosho Railroad Company), and'being pursued under the same general act of March 21, 1868, as. in that case;
and the same defence (amongst others) being set up, to wit,
that the subscription to the capital stock of the company was
made and the bonds were issued by the act of the county cou't
alone, without a vote of the people, as required by the Constitution of 1865. This is-the ground relied on in the first assignment of error.
The only material difference between the present case and
that of Henry County, in reference to the point in question,
arises from the circumstance that in this case the order of the
county court for making the subscription was not adopted
until after the a'ssignment by the Tebo and Neosho Railroad
Company of a portion of its franchises to the Missouri, Kansas,
and Texas Railway Company; whilst in the Henry County case
the order for a subscription was prior in date to the said assignment. But we do not regard this difference as material. In
both cases, the branch railroad was authorized to be constructed by a resolution of the boaid of directors of the Tebo
and Neosho Railroad Company before the assignment, and a
committee was appointed to take charge of its construction and
solicit subscriptions therefor; and in both cases the bonds of
the county were issued after the said assignment. The authority of the Tebo and Neosho Railroad Company to establish independent branches under its charter, and pursuant to
the provisions of the act of March 21, 1868, entitled "An Act
to aid in the building of branch railroads in the State of
.Missouri," was considered in the Henry County case, and need
not be again discussed. The resolution for establishing the
branch road, to aid which the bonds now in question were
given, was adopted on the 6th of June, 1870, and was as
follows "tResolved,by the board of directors of the Tebo and Neosho
'Railroad Company, that it is the desire of this company to build
a branch railroad from a point on the main line of the road of said

Oct. 1879.]

COUNTY OF CASS V. GILLETT.

company, at or near the town of Clinton, Henry County, northwestwardly in the general direction of Kansas City, to a ioint
either on the Pacific Railroad easterly of said city, or to a point at
said city on the line of road-lately known as the Cameron and
Kansas City Railroad, said branch railroad to be designated and
known as the Clinton and Kansas City Branch of the Tebo
and Neosho Railroad, and that the same is designated and established under the provisions of the charter of this company and the
act of the General Assembly of Missouri, entitled 'An Act to
aid in the building of branch railroads in the State of Missouri,'
approved," &c.
The findings also show that the Tebo and Neosho Railroad Company authorized a committee to take charge of the
construction of said branch road, and to use the name of the
company, and to solicit subscriptions in its name to the use of
said branch. As far, therefore, as depended upon the Tebo
and Neosho Railroad Company proper, its powers were exerted,
before the assignment of its franchises, in the establishment
and organization of the branch road. The branch being
thus organized and set in operation, became invested with
the powers and privileges conferred by the charter of the
company, to enable it to lay out and construct its road, and
to procure the requisite means of accomplishing these objects;
and the counties through which it was located thereupon
became authorized to subscribe stock in aid of its construction.
These powers, having thus been brought into existence, were
not extinguished by the subsequent partial assignment of its
franchises by the parent company to the lMlissouri, Kansas, and
Texas Railway Company. Whether the application to the
county for aid was made before or after said assignment could
make no difference. As stated in the Henry County case, the
Tebo and Neosho Railroad Company still continued in existence, invested with a large portion of its franchises.
The county of Cass thus having the power to subscribe
capital stock in aid of the branch road, the county court, on
application made to it for that purpose, on the 28th of February, 1871, did order and adjudge "that the county of Cass do
subscribe for and agree to take three thousand shares of the
capital stock of the Tebo and Neosho Railroad Company (now

COUNTY OF CASS V. GILLETT.

[Sup. Ct.

in part the Missouri, Kansas, and Texas Railway Company), in
the name of and for the use and benefit of the Clinton and
Kansas City Branch of the Tebp and Neosho Railroad, and
to aid in the construction thereof, each share being of the
denomination of 8100, and amounting in the aggregate to
the sum of 8300,000, under and by virtue of the authority
in the charter of the Tebo and Neosho Railroad Company
contained, and under the act of the General Assembly of
the State of Missouri, entitled 'An Act to aid the building,
of branch railroads in the State of Missouri,' approved March
21, 1868, and in accordance with the resolutions and orders
of the board of directors of said Tebo and N~osho Railroad
Company establishing said branch railroad and authorizing
subscriptions to said capital stock to aid in the construction thereof, adopted on the sixth day of June, 1870; the said
stock to be paid for by the issue and delivery to the committee
appointed to construct said branch railroad, or to their successors in office, of the coupon bonds of the county of Cass of the
denomination of $1,000 each, bearing date the first day of
February, 1871, with interest at the rate of ten per cent per
annum, payable semi-annually," &c.
The order then prescribed certain conditions as to the time
and circumstances under which the bonds were to be delivered,
which are not relevant to the point under consideration.
In pursuance of this order, the bonds were signed by the
officers of the county, and were issued in August, 1871; and
the court finds that the plaintiff is an innocent holder for value
of the coupons sued on.
We think that the case is entirely within the decision in
County of H~enry v. Nieolay (supra), and that the constitutional

provision does not apply to it.
But the defendant, in its second assignment of error, relies
on the act of the Missouri legislature passed Jan. 14, 1860,
which required as a condition precedent to the subscription
of stock to a railroad company, and the issue of bonds to pay
therefor, that an election should be held in the county to teat
the sense of the tax-payers on the question of subscription.
'The same objection was raised in County of Schuyler v.
Thomas (98 U. S. 169), and we overruled it on the author-

Oct. 1879.]

COUNTY OF CASS v. GiLLETT.

ity of Smith v. The County of Clark, 54 Mo. 58. We see
no reason to change that opinion. The act of 1860 was an
amendment to the general railroad law, and is held not to
apply to companies having special charters, in which special
power is given to counties and townships to subscribe stock in
aid thereof.
The third assignment of error relates to the supposed effect
of the assignment by the Tebo and Neosho Railroad Compcany
of its franchises to the Missouri, Kansas, and Texas Railway
Company, which has already been sufficiently discussed.
The f6urth assignment is based on the fact that the bonds
were issued pending and in violation of an injunction of the
Circuit Court of the county of Cass, directed to the justices
of the county court; and it is argued that this was notice
to all the world of the objections to the regularity and validity of the bonds. It seems that the bonds were in the keeping
of the National Park Bank of the city of New York, which
was not made a party to the injunction suit. It also appears
by certain proceedings of the county court of Cass County, had
on the twenty-fifth day of September, 1871, and set forth in
the findings of fact, that the bonds were delivered to the construction committee of the branch railroad; but under what
circumstances they were delivered is not shown. The coupons
subsequently came into the hands of the plaintiff as an innocent purchaser for value. The question of lis yendens as applicable to negotiable securities was fully considered by us in
the case of County of Warren v. M)Iarey (97 U. S. 107), and we
there held that a bona fide purchaser before maturity is not
affected with constructive notice of a suit respecting such
paper. That decision applies to the present case, and the
objection cannot prevail to invalidate the -plaintiff's title.
To the fifth and last assignment of error it may be answered,
that it does appear that the county court on behalf of the
county made an order to subscribe to the capital stock of the
Tebo and Neosho Railroad Company for the use of the Clinton
and Kansas City branch; that it dealt with the construction
committee of the branch road, and that the bonds in question
were issued to the said committee in payment of said stock.
That this was a transaction which entitled the county to the
voL. x.
38

COUNTY OF CASS v. GILuET.

[
[Sup.
Ct.

amount of stock subscribed cannot be doubted. An actual
manual subscription on the books of the company was not necessary to entitle the county to the stock, or to bind it as a
- subscriber thereto. In County of Moultrie v. Rockingham Ten
Cent Savings Bank (92 U. S. 631), where the board of supervisors of the county ordered that a subscription to the stock of
a railroad company be made by the county, and that bonds
should be issued in payment thereof; and the order was recorded in the minutes of the board, and bonds were actually
issued to the railroad company in pursuance thereof, though
no subscription to the stock was actually made on the books of
the company,- we held that, whether the action of the board
was in substance and legal effect a subscription, or only an
undertaking to subscribe, accepted by the company, a valid
contract existed between the county and the company. The
committee of construction in the present case represented the
branch railroad as a separate interest from that of the parent
company, and the acts of the committee were, as to the branch,
the acts of the company which the latter could not control or
gainsay. The stock subscribed, or agreed to be subscribed, for
the use of the branch, was separate stock, not under the control of the parent company, but under the control of the committee. As the dealings of the county court were with the
committee, though the name of the company was used, the
transaction was complete without any confirmatory action of
the company, and the county was entitled to its stock whether
certificates therefor were actually issued or not. We think
that this assignment of error cannot be sustained.

Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUsTIcE HARLANV dissented.

