Oct. 1879.]

O AUENSTEIN v. LYNHAM.

UAUENSTEIN V. LYNHAX.

1. In the absence of proof that an alien has become a citizen of the United
States, his original status is presumed to continue.
2. A., a citizen of Switzerland, died in 1861 in Virginia intestate and without
issue. For want of an heir capable under the statutes of the State to
inherit the lands there situate whereof lie died seised in fee, they were sold
by the escheator of the proper distict. A.'s next of kin, B., a citizen of
Switzerland, filed a petition to recover the proceeds of that sale. Upon
consideration of the treaty between the United States and the Swiss Confederation of Nov. 25, 1850 (10 Stat. 587),--Hdd, 1. That the treaty is the
supreme law of the land, and by its terms the incapacity of B. as an alien
was so far removed as to entitle him to recover and sell the lands and
"withdraw and export the proceeds thereof." 2. That his rights thus
secured are not barred by the lapse of time, inasmuch as no statute of
Virginia prescribes the term within which they must be asserted. 3. That
where a treaty admits of two constructions, - one restrictive as to the rights
that may be claimed under it, and the other liberal, - the latter is to be preferred. 4. That the treaty-making clause of the Constitution is retroactive as well as prospective. 5. That, in view of B.'s rights in the premises,
the escheator is entitled only to the amount allowed by law for making
sales of real estate in ordinary cases. 6. That counsel cannot be paid out
of the fund in dispute.

E, nom to the Supreme Court of Appeals of the State of
Virginia.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
M21r. William L. .Royall for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. James G. Field, Attorney-General of Virginia, and Mr.
J. A. Lynlsan, contra.
M. JUSTICE SwAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
Solomon Hauenstein died in the city of Richmond in the
year 1861 or 1862, intestate, unmarried, and without children.
The precise date of his death is not material. At that time,
he owned and held considerable real estate in the city of
Richmond. An i iquisition of escheat was prosecuted by the
escheator for that district. A verdict and judgment were
rendered in his favor. When he. was about to sell the property, the plaintiffs in error, pursuant to a law of the State,

filed their petition, setting forth that they were the heirs-atlaw of the deceased, and praying that the proceeds of the sale
of the property should be paid over to them. Testimony was

HAUENSTEIN V. LYNHAM.

[Sup. Ot.

taken to prove their heirship as alleged, but the court was of
opinion that, conceding that fact to be establiqhed, they could
have no valid claim, and dismissed the petitun. They removed the case to the Court of Appeals. That court, entertaining the same views as the court below, affirmed the
judgment. They thereupon sued out this writ of error.
The plaintiffs in error are all citizens of Switzerland. The
deceased was also a citizen of that country, and removed thence
to Virginia, where he lived and acquired the property to which
this controversy relates, and where he died. The validity of
his title is not questioned. There is no proof that he denationalized himself or ceased to be a citizen and subject of
Switzerland. His original citizenship is, therefore, to be presumed to have continued. Best on Presumptions, 186. According to the record his domicile,' not his citizenship, was
changed. The testimony as to the heirship of the plaintiffs
in error is entirely satisfactory. There was no controversy
on this subject in the argument here. The parties were at
one as to all the facts. Their controversy was rested ent~rely
upon legal grounds.
The common law as to aliens, except so far as it has been
modified by her legislature, is the local law of Virginia. 2
Tucker's Blackst., App., Note C. By that law "aliens are
incapable of taking by descent or inheritance, for they are
not allowed to have any inheritable blood in them." 2 Bla.
Coin., 249. But they may take by grant or devise though
not by descent. In other words, they may take by the act of
a party, but not by operation of law; and they may convey or
devise to another, but such a title is always liable to be devested
at the pleasure of the sovereign by office found. In such cases
the sovereign, until entitled by office found or its equivalent,
cannot pass the title to a grantee. In these respects there is
no difference between an alien friend and an alien enemy.
Fairfax'sDevisee v. Hunter's Lessee, 7 Cranch, 603.
The law of nations recognizes the liberty of every government to give to foreigners only such rights, touching immovable property within its territory, as it may see fit to concede.
Vattel, book 2, c. 8, sect. 114. In our country, this authority
is primarily in the States where the property is situated.

Oct. 1879.]

HAUENSTEIN V. LYNHAM.

The Revised Code of Virginia of 1860, c. 115, sect. 1, provides
that an alien upon declaring on oath before a court of record
that he intends to reside in the State, and having the declaration entered of record, may inherit or purchase and hold real
estate there as if he were a citizen.
Sect. 2 of the same chapter provides that such alien may
convey or devise his real estate, and if he shall die intestate
that it shall descend to his heirs, and if the alienee, devisee, or
heir shall be an alien, that he may take and hold, by being in
the State and making under oath and having recorded, within
five years, a like declaration with that prescribed by the preceding section.
The sixth section declares that when by a treaty between
the United States and any foreign country a citizen of such
country is allowed to sell real estate in Virginia, he may sell
and convey within the time prescribed by the treaty; and
when by such treaty citizens of the United States are allowed
to inherit, hold, sell, and convey real estate situate in such
country, the citizens and subjects of that country may in like
manner inherit, hold, sell, and convey real estate lying in Virginia, provided that these several provisions shall apply only
to real estate acquired thereafter by the citizens or subjects of
such foreign country.
Sect. 2 has no application to the present case, because the
declaration which it permits has not been made by the plaintiffs in error, and sect. 6 has none, because all the real estate
of the deceased was acquired before the date of the act.
The Revised Code of 1873 has obliterated nearly all the
distinctions between aliens and citizens with respect to their
rights as to both real and personal property. See c. 4, sect. 18,
p. 130, and c. 119, sects. 4 and 10, pp. 917, 918. As it is not
claimed that any of these provisions affect the present case, we
shall pass them by without further remark.
This brings us to the consideration of the treaty between
the United States and the Swiss Confederation, of the 25th of
November, 1850. 11 Stat. 587. The fifth article has been
earnestly pressed upon our attention, and is the hinge of the
controversy between the parties.
The first part of the article is devoted to personal property,

HAUENSTEIN v. LYNHAM.

[Sup. Ot.

and gives to the citizens of each country the fullest power
touching such property belonging to them in the other, including the power to dispose of it as the owner may think proper.
It then proceeds as follows: "The foregoing provisions shall be applicable to real estate situate within the States of the American Union, or within the cantons
of the Swiss Confederation, in which foreigners shall be entitled to
hold or inherit real estate.
"But in case real estate situated within the territories of one of
the contracting parties should fall to a citizen of the other party,
who, on account of his being an alien, could not be permitted to
hold such property in the State or in the canton in which it may
be situated, there shall be accorded to the said heir, or other successor, such term as the laws of the State or canton will permit to
sell Such property; he shall be at liberty at all times to withdraw
and export the proceeds thereof without difficulty, and without
paying to the government any other charges than those which, in a
similar case, would be paid by an inhabitant of the country in
which the real estate may be situated."
The plaintiffs in error are exactly within the latter category.
This is too clear to require discussion. A corresponding provision for like cases is found in article 2, in the previous treaty
of the 18th of May, 1847, between the same parties. 9 Stat.
902. By that article it is declared "t hat if, by the death of a
person owning real property in the territory of one of the high
contracting parties, such property should descend, either by
the laws of the country or by testamentary disposition, to a
citizen of the other party, who, on account of his being an
alien, could not be permitted to retain the actual possession
of such property, a term of not less than three years shall be
allowed him to dispose of such property and collect and withdraw the proceeds thereof, without paying to the government
any other charges than those which, in a similar case, would
be paid by an inhabitant of the country in which such real
property may be situated."
It was clearly the intention of the clause in question in the
treaty of 1850 to secure to the beneficiaries absolutely the right
"to sell said property," and "to withdraw and export the proceeds thereof without difficulty." Otherwise the language used

Oct. 1879.]

HAUENSTEIN V. LYNHAM.

is a sham and a mockery. The only qualification is as to the
time within which the right must be exercised. It has been
earnestly contended, in behalf of the defendant in error, that
the State, having fixed no time within which this must be
done, it cannot be done at all, and that the entire provision
thus becomes a nullity, and is as if it were not.
The terms of the limitation imply clearly that some time, and
not that none, was to be allowed. If it had been proposed to
those who negotiated the treaty to express in it the effect of
this construction in plain language, can it be doubted that it
would have been promptly rejected by both sides as a solecism
and contrary to the intent of the parties?
Where a treaty admits of two constructions, one restrictive
as to the rights, that may be claimed under it, and the other
liberal, the latter is to be preferred. Shanks v. Dupont, 8 Pet.
242. Such isthe settled rule in this court.
It was well remarked in the able opinion of the dissenting
judge in the Court of Appeals, that if this case were to be decided under the treaty of 1847, there could not be a doubt as
to the result. In this we cbncur, and we think the case is
equally clear under the treaty of 1850, which governs the
rights of the parties.
The provision as to time in the earlier treaty is, in effect, a
statute of limitation. It applied -with Procrustean sameness in
all the States and in all the cantons. In the latter treaty this
limitation was dropped, and the time was to be such "as the
laws of the State or canton will permit." In other words, it
was left to the laws of the several States and cantons respectively to fix the limitation in this as in other cases. This was
consonant to the policy of our judiciary act of 1789; which gave
to the State statutes of limitation the same effect in the local
courts of the United States which they had in the courts of the
States respectively that enacted them. The Procrustean uniformit , prescribed by the former treaty was thus abandoned,
and it is fair to presume that the harmonious results in this
respect which must necessarily follow, everywhere within the
territory covered by the treaty, both at home and abruad, were
the considerations by which those who made the change were
animated. If a State or canton had a law which imposed a

488

HAUENSTEIN V. LYNHAM.

[Sup. Ct.

limitation in this class of cases, nothing more was necessary.
If it had not such a law, it was competent to enact one, and
until one exists there can be no bar arising from the lapse of
time. A party entitled can sue whenever he chooses to do so,
and he is clothed with all the rights of any other litigant asserting a claim where there is no statute of limitation applicable to
the case. This we understand to be the position of Virginia,
and such are the legal consequences necessarily flowing'from it.
This construction of the treaty derives support from the fact
that the treaty provides (sixth article) that any controversy
which may arise among the claimants to the succession, " s h al l
be decided according to the laws and by the judges of the
country where the property is situated."
It remains to consider the effect of the treaty thus construed
upon the rights of the parties.
That the laws of the State, irrespective of the treaty, would
put the fund into her coffers, is no objection to the right or the
remedy claimed by the plaintiffs in error.
The efficacy of the treaty is declared and guaranteed by the
Constitution of the United States. That instrument took effect
on the fourth day of March, 1789. In 1796, but a few years
later, this court said: "If doubts could exist before the adoption of the present national government, they must be entirely
removed by the sixth article of the Constitution, which provides
that 'all treaties made or which shall be made under the
authority of the United States, shall be the supreme law of the
land, and the judges in every State shall be bound thereby, any
thing in the Constitution or laws of any State to the contrary
notwithstanding.' There can be no limitation on the power
of the people of the United States. By their authority the
State Constitutions were made, and by their authority the Constitution of the United States was established; and they had
the power to change or abolish the State Constitutions or to
make them yield to the general government and to treaties
made by their authority. A treaty cannot be the supreme law
of the land, that is, of all the United States, if any act of a
State legislature can stand in its way. If the Constitution of
a State (which is the fundamental law of the State and paramount to its legislature) must give way to a treaty and fall

Oct. 1879.]

HAUENSTEIN v. LYNHAN.

before it, can it be queztioned whether the less power, an act
of the State legislature, must not be prostrate? It is the declared will of the people ot the United States that every treaty
made by the authority of the United States shall be superior
to the Constitution and laws of any individual State, and their
will alone is to decide. If a law of a State contrary to a treaty
is not void, but voidable only, by a repeal or nullification by a
State legislature, this certain consequence follows, -that the
will of a small part of the United States may control or defeat
the will of the whole." Ware v. Hlton, 3 Dall. 199.
It will be observed that the treaty-making clause is retroactive as well as prospective. The treaty in question, in Tare
v. Hylton, was the British treaty of 1783, which terminated
the war of the American Revolution. It was made while the
Articles of Confederation subsisted. The Constitution, when
adopted, applied alike to treaties "made and to be made."
We have quoted from the opinion of Mr. Justice Chase in
that case, not because we concur in every thing said in the
extract, but because it shows the views of a powerful legal mind
at that early period, when the debates in the convention which
fLraed the Constitution must have been fresh in the memory
of the leading jurists of the country.
In Cldrac v. Chlrae (2 Wheat. 259), it was held by this
court that a treaty with France gave to her citizens the rigl,t
to purchase and hold land in the United States, removed the
incapacity of alienage and placed them in precisely the same
situation as if they had been citizens of this country. The
State law was hardly adverted to, and seems not to have been
considered a factor of any importance in this view of the case.
The same doctrine was reaffirmed touching this treaty in Cariawal v. Banks (10 id. 181), and with respect to the British
treaty of 1794, in Hughes v. Edwards (9 id. 489). A treaty
stipulation may be effectual to protect the land of an alien from
forfeiture by escheat under the laws of a State.
Orr v. Hlodgeson, 4 id. 453. By the British treaty of 1794, "all impediment
of alienage was absolutely levelled with the ground despite the
laws of the States. It is the diiect constitutional question in
its fullest conditions. Yet the Supreme Court held that the
stipulation was within the constitutional powers of the Union.

HAUENSTEIN V. LYNnAM.

[Sup. OL

Fairfax's Devisees v. Hunter's Lessee, 7 Cranch, 627; see Ware
v. Hylton, 3 Dall. 242." 8 Op. Att'ys-Gen. 417. Mr. Calhoun,
after laying down certain exceptions and qualifications whigh
do not affect this case, says: "Within these limits all questions
which may arise between us and other powers, be the subjectmatter what it may, fall within the treaty-making power and
may be adjusted by it." Treat. on the Const. and Gov. of the
U. S. 204.
If the national government has not the power to do what is
done by such treaties, it cannot be done at all, for the States
are expressly forbidden to "enter into any treaty, alliance, or
confederation." Const., art. 1, seci. 10.
It must always be borne in mind that the Constitution, laws,
and treaties of the United States are as much a part o! the law
of every State as its own local laws and Constitution. This is
a fundamental principle in our system of complex national
polity. See also Shanks v. Dupont, 3 Pet. 242; Foster & Elam
v. Neilson, 2 id. 253; The Cherokee Tobacco, 11 Wall. 616;
Mr. Pinkney's Speech, 3 Elliot's Constitutional Debates, 231;
The People, &c. v. Gerke J- Clark, 5Cal. 381.
We have no doubt that this treaty-is within the treaty-making power conferred by the Constitution. And it is our duty
to give it full effect. We forbear to pursue the topic further.
In the able argument before us, it was insisted upon one side,
and not denied on the other, that, if the treaty applies, its efficacy must necessarily be complete. The only point of 'onfention was one of construction. There are doubtless limitations
of this power as there are of all others arising under such instruments ; but this is not the proper occasion to consider the
subject. It is not the habit of this court, in dealing with constitutional questions, to go beyond the limits of what is required
by the exigencies of the case in hand. What we have said is
sufficient for the purposes of this opinion.
During the argument here, our attention was called to the
amount that might be taken from the fund for compensation
to the eseheator and to his counsel in the event of our judgment
being in favor of the plaintiffs in error.
Under the circumstances, the escheator can have no claim as
such, but he may properly receive the percentage allowed by

0-,. 1879.]

KIRTLAND V. HOTCHKISS.

law for making sales of real property in ordinary cases. It is
a settled rule in this court never to allow counsel on either side
to be paid out of the fund in dispute.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals of Virginia, so far as
it concerns the claim of the plaintiffs in error, will be reversed,
and the cause remanded for , further proceedings in conformity
with this opinion; and it is
So ordered.

KIRTLAND V. HOTCHKISS.
1. This court can afford the citizen of a State no relief from the enforcement
of her laws prescribing the mode and subjects of taxation, if they neither
trench upon Federal authority nor violate any right recognized or secured
by the Constitution of the United States.
2. The Constitution does not prohibit a State from taxing her resident citizens
for debts held by them against a non-resident, evidenced by his bonds, payment whereof is secured by his deeds of trust or mortgages upon real
estate situate in another State.
8. For the purposes of taxation, a debt has its situs at the residence of the cred.
itor, and may be there taxed.

ERnOR to the Supreme Court of Errors, Litchfield County,
State of Connecticut.
Charles W. Kirtland, a citizen of Connecticut, instituted
this action for the purpose of restraining the enforcement of
certain tax-warrants levied upon his real estate in the town in
which he resided, in satisfaction of certain State taxes, assessed against him Lor the years 1869 and 1870. The 'assessment was by reason of his ownership, during those years, of
certain bonds, executed in Chicago, and made payable to him,
his executor_, administrators, or assigns in that city, at such
place as he or they should. by writing appoint, and, in default
of such appointment, at the Manufacturers' National Bank of
Chicago. Each bond declared that "it is made under, and is,
in all respects, to be construed by the laws of Illinois, and is
given for an actual loan of money, made at the city of Chicago,
by the said Charles W. Kirtland to the said Edwin A. Cummins, on the day of the date hereof." They were secured by

