Oct. 1879.]

EmiGRINT

CO. v. COUNTY ,OF ADAMS.

61

property, an investigation was permitted into the necessity of
such property for the purposes of their incorporation, and the
title made to rest upon the proof of that necessity. Natoma
Water and lisning Co. v. Qlarkin, 14 Cal. 552.
But there is another and general answer to this objection.
The defendant, as already stated, went into possession of the
premises in controversy under the deed of the plaintiff. He
took his title from the company, with a condition that if he
manufactured or sold intoxicating liquors, to be used as a
beverage, at any place of public resort on the premises, the
title should revert to his grantor; and he is therefore estopped,
when sued by the grantor for the premises, upon breach of
the condition, from denying the corporate existence of the
plaintiff, or the validity of the title conveyed by its deed.
Upon obvious principles, he cannot be permitted to retain the
property which he received upon condition that it should be
restored to his grantor on a certain contingency, by denying,
when the contingency has happened, that his grantor ever had
any right to it. Gill v. Pauntleroy,8 B. Mon. (Ky.) 185; Miller v. Stackleford, 4 Dana (Ky.), 287, 288; Fitch v. Baldwin,
17 Johns. (N. Y.) 161.
Judgment affirmed.

EXIGRAN1T CO MN

V. Coux~ OF Awuis.

1. Though the grant by the act of Congress of Sept. 28, 1850 (9 Stat. 519), of the
swamp and overflowed lands to the States in which they lie, is declared tck
be made for the exclusive purpose of enabling such States, with the proceeds thereof, to reclaim the lands ly means of levees and drains, it is
questionable whether the security for the due application of the proceeds
does not wholly rest upon the good faith of the several States, and whether
they may not exercise their discretion in this behalf without being liable
to be called to account, and without affecting the title to the lands: at
all events, it seems that Congress alone has the power, in a clear case of
violation of the trust, to enforce the conditions of the grant, by revocation
or otherwise; and since, by t~ie act, the proceeds are to be applied to the
designated purposes only "as far as necessary" each State has, at least,
a large discretion as to the "necessity" of employing the proceeds to the
reclamation of the lands.
2. A grant, subject to the conditions of that act, made by a State of its swamp

EMIGRANT CO. V. COUNTY OF ADAMS.

[Sup. Ct.

and overflowed lands to the several counties in which they are situated, to
be disposed of for general county purposes, is valid, and the county which
has disposed of them in pursuance of the State grant cannot rescind its
contract on the ground of its being a violation of the act of Congress.
3. In Iowa, such a contract, if approved by a vote of the people of the county,
under the act of the legislature of that State passed in 1858, is valid, tbougi
the lands be disposed of for less than one dollar and a quarter per acre;
and, if it includes also k sale of the claim 6f the county against the United
States for indemnity for swamp lands sold by the latter, the county cannot
maintain a bill in equity to set it aside, though such sale be within the law
prohibiting the assignment of claims against the go ,rnment.
4. If the purchaser from the county under such a contract was bound thereby to
do certain acts, such as to introduce a certain number of settlers within a
certain period, or to reclaim the lands, his obligation, if not made a condition-of the sale, lies in covenant merely, and, if unperformed, does not avoid
the sale. It is only when covenants are mutual and dependent, or when their
performance is made an express condition, that a breach ol them involves
an avoidance of the contract.
APPEAL

from the Circuit Court of the United States for

the District of Iowa.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

The case was argued at the last term by Mr. J A. Harvey
hncT Mr. N. ff. Hubbardfor the appellant, and by ir. Frank
AL. Davis and Mr. R. P. Loue for the appellee.

The case was reargued at the present term for the appellee
by the same counsel, and for the appellant by Mr. Benjanzin
P. Butler and Mr. 0. D. Barrett.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This case arises upon a bill in equity originally fied by the
County of Adams, Iowa, against The American Emigrant
Company, in the District Court of that county, an& afterwards
tr&Dsferred to the Circuit Court of the United States. The
object of the bill was to rescind a certain contract between the
county and the company, made in September, 1862, whereby
the county agreed to convey to the company its swamp lands,
*and its claim against the government for indemnity on account
of swamp lands belonging to it and which had been sold by
the public land officers; also to rescind a deed executed on
behalf of the county in pursuance of the said contract; and to
recover back the moneys and proceeds which the defendant
had realized from the property and the said claim. The case is

Oct. 1879.]

EMIGRANT Co. v. COUNTY OF ADAMS.

of the same general character as that of Emigrant Company v.
County of Wright, 97 U. S. 339. The act of Congress, and
the laws of the State of Iowa which bear upon the case,
afid the character of the general operations of the defendantJ
are fully set forth in the opinion in that case, and need not be
repeated here. Suffice it to say that on the thirtieth day of
September, 1862, a written contract, similar to the contract
in that case, for the sale of the swamp lands of Adams County,
and of all the fund and claim of the county on the general
government therefor, was signed by the chairman and clerk
of the board of supervisors of said county, and by the American Emigrant Company, by its agent F. C. D. McKay, and
was recorded among the proceedings of the board. By this
contract the company agreed to take the lands and fund and
claim and to make for the county any public work or improvements therefor which the board of supervisors might request,
and which were authorized by law, to the amount of $2,000,
at any time after Oct. 1, 1863; or to pay the board, if they
preferred to do the work themselves, the sum of $2,000 in
money by the 1st of January, 1865. It was further agreed
that the lands should not be taxed as long as the county held
the legal title; and the company agreed to settle all the lands
fit for settlement with white settlers and purchasers, by selling farms of the usual size, one-third in three years, another
third in five years, and the whole in eight years. It was also
declared that the company took the lands subject to the provisions of the act of Congress of Sept. 28, 1850, and expressly
released the State of Iowa and the county from all liability in
reclaiming said lands, or in the draining thereof; and that any
contract existing between the county and any person in relation to said lands or funds was to be respected and fulfilled by
the company.
Subsequently a deed -was executed in pursuance of this contract by the supervisors of the county, bearing date the 7th of
September, 1863, and purporting, for the consideration of
,2,000, to convey to certain trustees, in trust for the American
Emigrant Company, certain lands particularly described, stated
to amount in the aggregate to 3,680.jr,' acres, although the
several parcels foot up only 2,235 acres, and the parties con-

EMIGRANT CO. v. COUNTY OF ADAMS.

[Sup. Ct.

cede that, after certain reservations mentioned in the contract,
the actual quantity conveyed by the deed was only a trifle
over 2,000 acres. The deed contained an agreement on the
part of the county that the lands within the county which
might at any time be duly selected as swamp or overflowed
lands, and all such lands as might not he included in the conveyance, if any, should be conveyed on request, and that any
proceeds of the claim on the United States, if any should be
received, should, on like request, be assigned and transferred
to said American Emigrant Company, its trustees or assigns;
and that any lands that should be located under or by any
scrip, which might be obtained on said claim, should also be
conveyed, on request, to said company, its trustees or assigns.
It appears from the proofs that the American Emigrant Company has sold about 1,500 acres of the land, upon some of
which the purchasers have made improvements; and has paid
to the county the said sum of $2,000 mentioned in the contract (which was paid in June, 1865), and has also paid certain expenses incurred on behalf of sixteen different counties
with whom the company had like contracts (of which Adams
County was one), the one-sixteenth part of which, as stated by
the defendant, amounts to $4,562; and a further sum of $1,200
paid to one Grinnell as agent of Page, Adams, and Montgomery
Counties, -all together, on behalf of Adams County, about

$7,000.
On the other hand, the company has received under the
contract, from the United States, in cash, the sum of $6,075.11;
and in addition to'the lands specifically conveyed, patents
have been issued to the county for 2,043 acres, to which the
defendant is entitled if the contract is carried out; and there
is still an unadjusted claim for about 8,000 acres more.
The Circuit Court decreed the contract and deed to be void,
and ordered a restitution of all moneys and securities received
by either party by virtue thereof, saving the rights of bona fide
purchasers, and referred the matter to a master to take the
necessary account. From this decree the American Emigrant
Company appealed; and the question for us' to decide is,
whether it is or is not sustained by the pleadings and proofs
in the cause.

Oct. 1879.]

EMIGRANT Co.

V. COUNTY Op

ADAIS.

The grounds laid by the bill of complaint for avoiding the
contract are, in substance, as follows: First, that the sale of
the county's swamp lands was made at a much less price than
the law allowed them to be sold for; that by an act of the
legislature of Iowa, then in force, regulating the disposal of
such lands, it was made unlawful to sell the same at a less
price than $1.25 per acre, whereas by the said contract nearly
8,000 acres were sold for $2,000; secondly, that the sale of the
county's claim against the United States for indemnity was
void, as being contrary to law ; thirdly, that the contract and
deed were procured by falte and fraudulent representations,
both as to the quantity of lands comprised therein and as to
the validity and condition of the claim against the United
States for indemnity, it being represented that the county
was entitled to only about 2,000 acres of land, and that the
claim for indemnity had been rejected, and was of no value;
that these representations were made by agents of the defendant, who well knew the falsity thereof, to the officers and
agents of the county, who were entirely ignorant in the premises, and liable to be easily imposed upon; fourthly, that false
representations were made as to the object of buying the lands,
-namely,
that the defendant desired them only for immediate settlement and improvement, whereas it hs never made
any effect to drain or cultivate them, and never had any intention of doing so; fifthly, that the delivery of the deed was procured by fraud, the same having been executed as an escrow,
and left with the clerk of the board of supervisors to be delivered only upon the execution and delivery of a mortgage upon
all the lands to secure a compliance with the terms of the
contract; whereas, by a fraudulent combination with said
clerk the defendant procured the delivery and recording of
said deed without giving any such mortgage. The bill also
set up insufficient consideration for said lands and the indemnity claim, and failure of consideration; that the defendant
bad failed to drain or improve the lands, and to release the
county from its obligations in that behalf ; that it had refused
to pay a certain claim for over $2,000 against said county for
services of an agent, in consequence of which the county had
been prosecuted and obliged to pay $2,700 for judgment and
VOL.

X.

5

EMIGRANT CO. V. COUNTY Op ADAMS.

[Sup. ot.

costs. It was also charged that the defendant bad made use
of fraudulent misrepresentations and bribery to procure a vote
of the people of the county in favor of the sale (which was
required by the laws of the State). The bill further stated
that, on discovery of the frauds thus charged, the board of
supervisors passed a resolution repudiating and rescinding the
contract; and concluded by praying that the contract be declared void, and for an account.
The answer specifically denies the charges of the bill, and
claims, in substance, that the contract was fairly entered into,
and that the complainant had failed to perform its part
thereof, and had prevented the defendant from fulfilling its
part, so far as it remained unfulfilled. The answer not being
sworn to, except by an agent of the defendant, who was not a
party to the bill, of course is not evidence.
A great deal of evidence was produced, showing the proceedings had in the General Land-Office and in the State in
relation to the claim and location of the swamp lands, and in
relation to the claim for indemnity against the government;
the services of agents; the negotiations between the parties
respecting the contract in question ; the representations that
were made; the proceeds and value of the lands, and the disposition thereof. And although it is evident to us, from all
the evidence taken together, that the agents of the defendant
were well informed in regard to the rights of the county, and
that the supervisors of the county were quite ignorant thereof,
and liable to be easily imposed upon; and although it is very
clear that the latter believed that the lands to which the
county was entitled were only about 2,000 acres, and that the
claim for indemnity against the government was of no value, yet we see no sufficient proof that the contract was procurel
by false and fraudulent representations; and we are unable
to sustain the decree of the Circuit Court on this ground.
The case, in this respect, as to the character of the proofs, is
very far short of that of American Emigrant Co. v. County of
Wright, supra.
But there was one aspect of it which, at the conclusion of
the first hearing, we thought deserving of consideration, and
that .was the general character of the transaction, viewed in

Oct. 1879.]

EMIGRANT CO. v. COUNTY OF ADAMS.

connection with the act of Congress by which the swamp and
overflowed lands were granted to the State. This act was
passed Sept. 28, 1850 (9 Stat. 519), and is entitled "An Act
to enable the State of Arkansas and other States to reclaim
the ' swamp lands' within their limits." By the first section
it was enacted, "That to enable the State of Arkansas to construct the necessary levees and drains to reclaim the swamp
and overflowed lands therein, the whole of those swamp and
overflowed lands, made unfit thereby for cultivation, which
shall remain unsold at the passage of this act, shall be and are
hereby granted to said State." The fourth section declared
that the provisions of the act should be extended to, and their
benefits be conferred upon, each of the other States of the
Union in which such swamp or overflowed lands might be
situated.

These lands, therefore, were granted to the several

States in which they lie for a purpose expressed on the face of
the act; and that purpose was "to enable the State to construct the necessary levees and drains to reclaim them." The
second section of the act, after prescribing the method in which
the lands should be designated and patented to the State, concluded with the following proviso: "Provided, however, that
the proceeds of said lands, whether from sale or direct appropriation in kind, shall be applied exclusively, as far as necessary, to the purpose of reclaiming said lands by means of the
levees and drains aforesaid." Our first view was, that this
trust was so explicit and controlling as to invalidate the scheme
finally devised by the legislature of Iowa for the disposal of

the land, and under which the contract in question was made.
But on more mature reflection, after hearing additional argument, we are satisfied that such a result did not necessarily
follow. The history of the State legislation on the subject is
briefly as follows The legislature of Iowa, by an act which took effect Feb. 2,
1853, granted the lands to the several counties in which they
were situated, subject to the conditions of the act of Congress
and such laws as the legislature might thereafter pass. It created a drainage commissioner's office, and county surveyors to
lay out drains; after draining, the lands were to be appraised
and sold at auction to the highest bidder in small tracts; and

EMIGRANT Co- v. COUNTY OF ADAMS.

[Sup. Ct.

it provided for reclamation of the lands in detail. Other acts
were subsequently passed in pursuance and furtherance of this
general scheme, which was clearly conformable to the purposes
of the congressional grant. The difficulty we had drose upon
the subsequent act of the legislature of Iowa, passed in 1858,
by which it was declared (by sect. 1) that it should be competent and lawful for the counties owning. swamp and overflow6d lands to devote the same, or the proceeds thereof, either
in whole or in part, to the erection of public buildings for the
purpose of education, the building of bridges, roads, and highways, or for building institutions of learning, or for making
railroads through the county or counties to which such lands
belonged; and (by sect. 2) it was enacted that the proper
officers of any county might contract with any person or company for the transfer and conveyance of said swamp or overflowed lands, or the proceeds thereof, or otherwise appropriate
the same to such person or company, or to their use, for the
purpose of aiding or carrying out any of the objects mentioned
in the first section. It was further provided that, before any
such contract could take effect, the proposition should be submitted to a vote of the people of the county, for their approval
of rejection. There was a proviso in the third section that no
such sale should be valid, unless the person or company purchasing should take the lands sold subject to all the provisions
of the act of Congress (before referred to), and should expressly release the State of Iowa and the county from all liability for reclaiming said lands. A supplement was passed in
18629, providing that no county should be released from its
obligation to make the necessary drains and levees contemplated by the act of Congress passed Sept. 28, 1850, and the
act of assembly -passed in 1853.
The contract in dispute was:made under this law, and our
first impression was that it intzoduced a scheme subversive of
the trust imposed upon the State by the act of Congress ; that
its effect was to devote the lands and proceeds thereof to
purposes different from those which the original grant
was
intended to secure; that it drew off, or endeavored to throw
off, all public responsibility in relation to the trust; and
hence that the scheme itself and the contract based upon it

Oct. 1879.]

EMIGRANT CO. V. COUNTY Or ADAMS.

were void. But a reconsideration of the subject has brought
us to a contrary conclusion. The argument against the validity
of the scheme is, that it effects a diversion of the proceeds of
the lands from the objects and purposes of the congressional
grant. These were declared to be to enable the State to
reclaim the lands by means of levees and drains. The proviso
of the second section of the act of Congress declared that the
proceeds of the lands, whether from sales or direct appropriation in kind, should be applied exclusively, as far as necessary,
to these purposes. This language implies that the State was
to have the full power of disposition of the lands; and only
gives direction as to the application of the proceeds, and of
this application only "as far as necessary" to secure the object
specified. It is very questionable whether the security for the
application of the proceeds thus pointed out does not rest
upon the good faith of the State, and whether the State may
not exercise its discretion in that behalf without being liable
to be called to account, and without affecting the titles to the
lands disposed of. At all events, it would seem that Congress
alone has the power to enforce the conditions of the grant,
either by a revocation thereof, or other suitable action, in a
clear case of violation of the conditions.. And as the application of the proceeds to the named objects is only prescribed
"as far as necessary," room is left for the exercise by the
State of a large discretion as to the extent of the necessity.
In the present case it is not shown by allegations in the bill,
or otherwise (if such a showing would be admissible), that any
necessity existed for devoting the proceeds of the lands in
question to the purposes of drainage. No case is shown as the
basis of any complaint, even on the part of the general government, much less on the part of the county of Adams, which
voluntarily entered into the arrangement complained of. Our
conclusion, therefore, is, that this objection to the validity of
the contract cannot prevail.
Having disposed of the questions of fraud and of the sup.
posed invalidity of the State legislation, the other grounds
alleged by setting aside the contract will not require extended
discussion.
One of these grounds is that the sale of the county's swamp

EMIGRANT

0.

V. COUNTY OF ADAMS.

[Sup. Ct,

lands was made at a much less price than the law allowed
them to be sold for; that by an act of the legislature of Iowa
then in force, regulating the disposal of such lands, it was
made unlawful to sell them at a less price than $1.25 per
acre. This question has been decided adversely to this view
by the Supreme Court of Iowa in Audubon County v. American -Emigrant Co., 40 Iowa, 460. It was there held that,
when a county devotes its swamp lands to purposes specified
in the act of March 28, 1858, it is not limited in price to $1.25
per acre, but may devote them to such purposes, upon such
terms as may be agreed on, if the contract be approved by a
vote of the people. The contract in that case was substantially the same as in this, and was sustained. As this is a
question of State law, if we had any doubt upon it, we should
defer to the decision of the State court.
Another question suggested for relief is, that the sale of the
county's claim against the United States for indemnity for
lands sold by the government was contrary to law, and void.
If the law prohibiting assignments of dlaims against the government applies to such a claim as that which was the" subject of
the contract in this case, the government might have refused
to pay it; but after it was paid, the county, being partieep8
eriminis, canno', against its own act, have a standing in a
court of equity either to recover it from the appellants, or to
have the contract avoided. So far as the State laws are concerned, the Supreme Court of Iowa has frequently sustained
contracts precisely like that now under consideration. See
.Audubon County v. American. Bmigrant Co., supra; Allen v.
Cerro Gordo County, 84 Iowa, 54; Page County v. American
-Emigrant Co., 41 id. 115,; _inggold County v. Allen, 42 id.
697.
The allegations of the bill to the effect that the Emigrant
Company has not fulfilled its engagements with respect to the
drainage and settlement of the land, rest in covenant merely,
and afford no ground for avoiding the contract. Where covenants are mutual and dependent, the failure of one party to
perform absolves the other, and authorizes him to rescind the
contract. But here, the contract was largely carried into execution soon after its inception. The engagements of the appel-

Oct. 1879.]

EMIGRANT CO. V. COUNTY OF ADAMS.

lants to introduce settlers and the like were to be performed
in the future; and their performance was not made a condition,
but, as before stated, rested in covenant. In case of a breach,
they would lay the foundation of an action, but nothing more.
To.the same category belongs the question whether the appellants ought to have paid the claim of Frank M. Davis. The
agreement required them to respect and fulfil any contracts
then existing between the county and any person in relation
to the lands and funds which formed the subject of negotiation. Davis had a claim against the county for services in
surveying the lands and in prosecuting the indemnity claim.
The county insisted that the appellants should pay this claim,
which they refused to do, alleging it to be unjust and collusive.
In 1866, Davis sued the county, and obtained judgment for
$2,200. In 1869, this judgment, with interest and costs, then
amounting to over $2,700, being paid by the county, was formally demanded of the appellants, and they again refused to pay
it. It is claimed that this refusal entitles the county to repudiate the whole contract. We do not think so. It is one of
those matters that rest in agreement merely, and is not in the
form of a condition. The agreement is an independent one, a part of the consideration of the contract, it is true ; but its
non-performance raises an action merely, and- does not annul
the entire contract. We are disposed to think that as the
appellants had notice of Davis's suit, and cG-operated in its
defence, the claim of the county is valid; but, being a mere
legal demand, it cannot be recovered in this suit; and we are
satisfied that it constitutes no proper ground for the relief
sought by the bill.
Looking at the whole case as presented to us, we think that
the complainant below was not entitled to a decree, and that
the bill should have been dismissed.
The decree of the Circuit Court will be reversed, and the cause
remanded with directions to enter a decree dismissing the bill
without prejudice to the right of the county to bring an action
at law for any breach of the terms of the contract; and it is.
So ordered.

