CASE v. BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

CASE v. BAN.
A., in order to secure the payment of his note to B., pledged to the latter certain
shares of the capital stock of a national bpnk in Louisiana, with authority to
sell them in default of such payment. Default having been made, B. sold
them, and in March, 1873, applied to the cashier of the bank to have them
transferred on its books. That officer refused to allow the transfer, on the
ground that A. was indebted to the bank. Before the transfer could be enforced, the bank failed, and C. was appointed a receiver, against whom B.,
Feb. 24, 1876, brought this action to recover damages for the loss sustained
by him. It does not appear that the bank ever adopted any by-law providing
for a lien on the shares of a stockholder indebted to it, or that A.'s debt to
it had been contracted before his stock was pledged to B. eld, 1. That the
action is not prescribed by the limitation of one year. 2. That the cashier
having been intrusted by the directors of the bank with the transfers of
stock, his refusal to permit the transfer was the refusal of the bank. 3. That
judgment having been rendered, the court below had power to order C. to
pay the claim, or certify it to the comptroller.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
This is an action by the Citizens' Bank of Louisiana against
Frank F. Case, receiver of the Crescent City National Bank, to
recover damages for an alleged refusal on the part of the latter
bank to permit a transfer of two hundred and twenty shares of
its capital stock.
The petition, which was filed Feb. 24, 1876, alleges, in
substance, that the shares were pledged to the Citizens' Bank
by Lizardi & Co., to secure the payment of their note to it for
$20,000 ; that the act of pledge contained an authority to the
Citizens' Bank to sell and transfer the stock, for the purpose of
paying said note; that said stock was sold under the act of
pledge for $40 per share, but that the Crescent City National
Bank refused to permit the transfer thereof on its books,
alleging the indebtedness of Lizardi & Co. to it as an excuse
for such refusal; that, by such refusal, the sale of said stock
was prevented; and that, before legal steps could be taken to
enforce the right of transfer, the Crescent City National Bank
failed, causing a loss to the Citizens' Bank of $8,800.
The prayer is, that the receiver be ordered to recognize the
Citizens' Bank as a creditor for said sum ; and that he place it

Oct. 1879.]

CASE v. BANK.

on the next tableaux of distribution for its share of the amount
already divided among creditors, and in all future dividends to
be distributed.
On the 15th of March, 1876, the receiver filed an exception,
setting up two grounds of defence: 1. That the cause of ac-tion did not accrue within one year next before the commencement of the action, as appears from the petition filed. 2. That
the petition did not disclose a cause of action.
These exceptions having been overruled, he filed an answer
reserving them, and denying all the allegations of the petitioner,
except his appointment.
A verdict of the jury in favor of the plaintiff below for
$4,000, with five per cent interest from March 6, 1873, having
been returned, the court rendered judgment "that the Citizens' Bank of Louisiana do have and recover of the Crescent
City NatiQnal Bank, Frank F. Case, receiver, $4,000 and interest, &c.; . . .and that Frank F. Case, receiver, do recognize
-the said Citizens' Bank of Louisiana as creditor; . . . and that
he do pay the same, or certify the same to the comptroller, to
be paid in due course of administration; . . . and that the
Citizens' Bank of Louisiana do receive, before further payment
to creditors, its due proportion of dividends pro ratawith those
already paid to the creditors of the Crescent City National
Bank."
The receiver, thereupon, brought the case here.
The remaining facts are set forth in the opinion of the
court.
Mir. J. ). Rouse and 1r. William Grant for the plaintiff in
error.
XIr. A. Pitot and .I2r. -RdwardJanin, contra.
MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Associations formed under the act to provide a national currency are required to enter into articles of agreement, specifying the object of the association; and the articles may contain
other rec~ulations, not inconsistent with the act which the association may see fit to adopt for the conduct of their business
and affairs. Such an association may make contracts, sue and
be sued, and complain and defend in any court of law or equity

CASE V. BANK.

(Sup.

t

as fully as natural persons. They may also elect directors;
and the board of directors may appoint a president, vicepresident, cashier, and other officers, and define their daties.
13 Stat. 101; Rev. Stat., sect. 5136; .Knigkt v. Bank, 3 Cliff.
429, 431.
Sufficient appears to show that the plaintiff bank discounted
for the firm named in the transcript their promissory note, in
the sum of $20,000, payable to the order of the bank in thirty
days; and that the promisors, to insure the payment of the
note, pledged to the holders two hundred and twenty shares of
the capital stock of the bank of which the defendant is the
receiver, - part standing in the name of the debtor firm, and
part in the name of their senior partner. Authority was given
to the pledgees, at the time the stock was pledged, in case the
note was not paid at maturity, to sell the shares pledged at
public or private sale, the pledgors agreeing to sign all required
transfers of the same necessary in the premises.
Payment of the note, when it fell due, was refused; and the
pledgees of the stock, having found purchasers for the same at
the rate specified in the declaration, requested the bank of
which the defendant is the receiver for permission to transfer the
stock to the purchasers of the same; and the charge is that
the bank peremptorily refused the request, on the ground that
the promisors of the note were indebted to the bank, and
that their stock could not be transferred before paymint of
their indebtedness.
Nothing appears to show when the indebtedness of the
pledgors of the stock was contracted to the defendant bank;
but it is not alleged that it preceded the pledge of the stock,
nor is it claimed that the defendant bank had any lien on the
stock for the payment of the alleged indebtedness.
Process was served, and the defendant bank appeared and
filed a peremptory exception to the declaration: 1. Because
the supposed cause of action did not accrue within one year
next before the commencement of the suit. 2. Because the
petition or declaration does not disclose any cause of action
against the defendant.
Hearing was had, and the court overruled the exception.
Proceedings now unimportant followed, when defendant again

Oct. 1879.]

CASE v. BANK.

appeared and filed an answer, denying all the material allegations of the petition. Issue being joined, the parties went to
tiial, and the verdict and judgment were in favor of the plaintiff ; and the defendant excepted, and sued out the present writ
of error.
Since the cause was entered here, errors have been assigned
to the effect following: 1. That the Circuit Court erred in holding and instructing the jury that the action rose ez eontractu,
and that it was not prescribed by one year. 2. That the Circuit Court erred in instructing the jury that the defendant was
liable for the refusal of the cashier to permit the stock to
be transferred. 3. That the Circuit Court erred in refusing
the two prayers for instruction presented by the defendaqt.
4. That the Circuit Court erred in ordering the receiver to
pay the amount of the judgment or to certify the same to the
comptroller.
By-laws were adopted by the defendant bank, which provide
that the stock of the bank shall be assignable only on the books
of the bank, subject to the provisions and restrictions of the act
of Congress, and that a transfer-book shall be kept, in which
all the assignments of stock shall be made. Certificates of
stock signed by the president and cashier may, as the by-laws
provide, be issued to stockholders; but the requirement is, that
the certificate shall state upon the face thereof that the stock
is transferable only upon the books of the bank, - the further
requirement being that, when stock is transferred, the existing
certificates shall be cancelled and returned, and that new ones
shall be issued.
Provision is made by the code of the State that persons are
responsible for the damage they occasion, not merely by their
acts but by their negligence, their imprudence, and their want
of skill, which is not different in its application to this case
from the rule which prevails at common law. Rev. Code La.,
arts. 2315, 2316.
Whenever an agent violates his duties or obligation to his
principal, and loss ensues to the principal, he is responsible
therefor, says Judge Story, and is bound to make a full indemnity. Story, Agency (6th ed.), sect. 217 a.
Actions for injurious words, whether verbal or written, and
VOL. X.

29

CASE v. BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

those for damages caused by animals, or resulting from offences,
or quasi offences, are prescribed by one year in the jurisprudence of the State. Rev. Code La., sect. 3536. And the first
proposition of the defendant is that the Circuit Court erred in.
holding that the action in this case was not barred by that
article of the code.
Causes of action resulting from offences or quasi offences are
barred by the lapse of one year, and the defendant bank contends that the cause of action set forth in the petition in this
case falls within the one or the other of those designations.
Argument to show that it was not an offence is certainly
unnecessary, as the'proposition if made would be wholly without merit, from which it follows that the theory must be wholly
rejected, unless the act for which the damages are claimed in
this case can properly be regarded as a quasi offence within
the meaning of t1 at provision.
Even suppose the terms of the provision apply to such a
cause of action, it is by no means certain that the admission, if
made, would benefit the defendant, as the Supreme Court of
the State has decided that prescription in respect to a promissory note is interrupted so long as the holder is in possession
of collaterals pledged by the maker to secure its payment.
Blanc v. ffertzog, 23 La. An. 199.
Stocks pledged as. security for a loan, the same court holds,
constitute a standing acknowledgment of the debt which interrupts prescription during the time the securities pledged remain
in the possession of the creditor. Polive Jury v. Duralde, 22
id. 107; Citizens' Bank v. Knapp, id. 117.
Suppose, however, the claim for damages resulting from the
refusal of the bank to transfer the stock must be considered as
a cause of action wholly distinct from the note and the collaterals, then it becomes necessary to examine the objections
taken by the plaintiff bank to the validity of the defence of
prescription. Coming to that defence the plaintiff bank contends that the cause of action does not fall within the rule of
prescription by the lapse of a year, because the act which gives
rise to the claim was neither an offence nor a quasi offence
within the meaning of that article of the Revised Code. Precisely the same question was presented to the Supreme Court

Ot. 1879.]

CASE v. BANK.

of the State and was decided by that court adversely to the
views of the defendant. Campbell v. Miltenberger, 26 id. 72.
Compensation was claimed by the plaintiff in that case for
damages occasioned by the defective and improper construction
of a fence around his dwelling and premises by the defendant.
The prescription of one year was pleaded, setting up the same
article of the codc, but the court decided that the rule of prescription of one year only applied to cases arising from damages
caused by the commission of an offence or quasi offence, and
overruled the defence as inapplicable to the case.
Actions arising under the article referred to survive, in case
of the death of the injured party, for the space of one year, in
favor of the minor children and widow of the deceased. Rev.
Code, art. 2315.
Personal actions are not in general prescribed in that State
short of ten years, even when the creditor i present, nor short
of twenty years if he be absent. Id., art. 3544.
.Many decisions have been made in the State upon the subject, but a few of each of the classes in question will be sufficient to show that the act which gave rise to the cause of
action in this case cannot be regarded either as an offence
or quasi offence within the rules of decision adopted in that
State.
Wilful trespass in cutting wood upon another man's land
and refusing to account for the same when accused of, the act
was held to be prescribed by that provision. W17tehead v.
Dagan, 25 La. An. 409.
Where damages were claimed for the illegal and wrongful
seizure of the defendant's property by virtue of an execution
against another party, whereby much of the property was lost
or destroyed, it was held that the claim for damages fell within
the category of that rule. .De Lizarde v. The New Orleans
Canal and Bankcing Co., 25 id. 414.
(Glaim for injuries occasioned by a railroad to individuals, or
for'the destruction of domesticanimals, are held to fall within
the same category as charges of quasi offences. But the right
to recover of a banker for failure to protest a note, whereby
the indorser is charged, is only prescribed by ten years. .Richelberger v. Pike, 22 id. 142; Rev. Code, 3544.

452

CASE v. BANK.

[Sup. Ct,

So an action against a telegraph company for loss on goods
by a mistake in the message may be maintained unless prescribed by ten years. La Grange v. SouthTwegtern Telegraph
Co., 25 La. An. 383.
Cases in great number of a like character might be cited,
but it must suffice to refer to one other, which seems to be
decisive of the point. Perey v. White, 7- Rob. (La.) 513. It
was an-action by the stockholders against the directors to
recover damages for losses sustained through their negligence,
fraud, and mismanagement, and the court held that it was not
prescribed short of ten years from the acts which were the
subject of complaint. Such a case every one must admit is
much stronger than the case at bar, as the directors were
directly charged as wrong-doers, and as guilty of negligence,
fraud, and mismanagement in the performance of their official
duties.
Opposed to that the defendant refers to the case of Taylor v.
Graham, as being inconsistent with the prior case, but the
court is not inclined to adopt that view, as the notary is a
public officer and the charge against him was that of gross
negligence in the performance of his official duty. Taylor g.
Baddin v. Graham, 15 La. An. 418.
Promptitude and fidelity are expected of notaries in giving
notice of protest in all jurisdictions where that duty is required
of those officers, and it cannot be doubted that the court
regarded the charge as imputing a quasi offence. In the case
at bar the demand of transfer was made. by the plaintiff bank
in behalf of the purchaser of the stock, and the cashier
answered that by order of the directors he could 'not allow the
transfer, as the holder of the certificates was indebted to the
bank. Instructions from the directors were obligatory upon
the cashier, who in point of fact assumed no responsibility.
He acted by order of the directors, who for that purpose constituted the bank, it appearing that he merely obeyed their
instructions not to transfer any stock whose owner had discounted notes in the bank unpaid.
Evidence was introduced by the plaintiffs tending to show
that the cashier of the defendant bank was the officer intrusted
by the directors with the transfer of stock, and they also gave

Oct. 1879.]

CASE v. BANK.

in evidence the note secured by the pledge of the stock, but
they gave no other evidence to show that the note was due
and unpaid, or that any effort had been made to collect the
same of the maker, or that the maker was insolvent, nor was
any evi~lence introduced to show that any thing had occurred
to interrupt or suspend prescription.
Both parties having closed, the defendant bank requested
the court to instruct the jury that the defendant is not liable
for the refusal of its cashier or other officer to transfer the
stock, unless he acted in the premises under the authority of
the charter or by-laws of the bank, or pursuant to some general
or special authority derived from the corporation through its
board of directors, but the court refused to give the requested
instruction, and instructed the jury that if they found that a
person representing the plaintiff, having in his possession the
certificates of the stock, sent to the defendant bank during
the ordinary hours of business and found there the cashier,
and that he was the officer customarily intrusted by the directors to make such transfer of stock, and that he, the person
having the certificates, demanded the transfer of the cashier,
at the same time offering to deliver up the old certificates, and
that the cashier refused to allow the transfer, upon the ground
that the owner was indebted to the defendant bank, that such
a refusal was a refusal of the bank.
Compare the instruction given with that requested, and it
will be seen that the introductory part of the request is fully
given in the instruction given to the jury. They were told
that if they found that a person representing the plaintiff,
having the certificates of the shares in his possession, went to
defendant bank and there found the cashier, and that he was
the officer customarily intrusted by the directors to make the
transfers, which was fully equivalent to the request, though
stated in the affirmative and not in the negative form. Unless
the jury found all those facts to be true, they .were not authorized to find a verdict for the plaintiff; and, inasmuch as the
verdict returned was in favor of the plaintiff, it must be
assumed by the Appellate Court that the entire theory of fact
involved in the instruction is proved.
Suppose that is so, then it is plain that the whole instruction

CASE v. BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

is correct, as it is not controverted that the demand was regularly made, nor that the cashier refused to allow the transfer.
Cashiers of a bank are held out to the public as having
authority to act according to the general usage, practice, and
course of business conducted by such institutions; and their
acts, within the scope of such usage, practice, and course of
business, will in general bind the bank in favor of third persons "possessing no other knowledge." Minor v. Meckanicu'
Bank of Alexandria, 1 Pet. 46.
Neither the public at large nor third persons usually have
any other knowledge of the powers of a cashier than what is
derived from such usage, practice, and course of business; and
it would be the height of injustice to hold that the bank as the
principal to the cashier may set up their secret and private instructions to the officer, limiting his authority in respect to a
particular case, and thus to defeat his acts and transactions as
such agent, when the party dealing with him had not and could
not have any notice of the secret instructions. Story, Agency
(6th ed.), sect. 127.
Such an officer is virtute ofl eii intrusted with the notes,
securities, and other funds of the bank, and is held out to the
world by the bank as its general agent for the transaction of
its affairs, within the scope of authority, evidenced by such
usage, practice, and course of business.
Where the by-laws of a bank require that the transfer of
the shares of the capital stock shall be entered in the books
of the bank, the entry is usually made by the cashier, and the
evidence introduced by the plaintiff tended to show that the
practice of the defendant bank was in accordance with the general usage. Evidence to that effect having been introduced, it
was certainly competent for the court to submit it to the jury,
and the judge might have instructed them that, in view of that
evidence, they would be warranted, if they believed the testimony, in finding that the cashier had the authority to make
the transfer. Wild v. Bank, 3 Mas. 505.
Official acts may be performed by a cashier which constitute
the ordinary and customary functions of such an officer, and
persons dealing with the bank are warranted in believing that
the cashier is duly authorized to perform any customary duty

Oct. 1879.]

CASE

V. BANK.

falling within the scope of that category, and may to that extent hold the bank responsible, as if he was so authorized, however the fact may be, save only in cases where his want of
authority is affirmatively proved, and actual knowledge of that
fact is brought home to the third party.
Concede that, and it follows that the cashier, unless the
charter or by-laws of the bank forbid it, may properly make
or superintend the transfer of shares of the capital stock, and
that a person showing a primai facie legal right to claim such
a transfer to himself may demand it from that officer or any
other principal officer left in general charge and superintendence of the bank, during the regular hours appointed by the
bank for the transaction of banking business. Smith v. Northamnptn Bank, 4 Cush. (Mass.) 1, 11; Morse on Banking (3d
ed.), pp. 155, 177.
Authorities to show that the acts of a cashier or other officer
of a bank, within the scope of the general usage, practice, and
course of business of banking institutions, are binding on the
corporation in favor of third persons transacting business with
it, are quite numerous, provided it appears that the persons
dealing with the officer did not know at the time that he was
transcending his authority. Lloyd v. The West Branch Bank,
15 Pa. St. 172; The Bank of Vergennes v. Warren, 7 Hill
(N.Y.), 91 ; Franklin Bank v. Steward, 37 Me. 519, 522.
It may be fairly presumed, says Chancellor Walworth, that
the principal officer or clerk in attendance at the bank during
the usual hours of business is authorized to permit the transfer
of shares when the case presented is one proper to be allowed.
The Commercial Bank of Buffalo v. Kortrght, 22 Wend.
(N.Y.) 348, 350.
Assumpsit in the form of a special action on the case will lie
against a corporation for improperly refusing to make a transfer of shares of capital stock, in the name of the party injured
by the refusal. -Kortrightv. The Commercial Bank of Buffalo,
20 id. 91 ; Angell & Ames, Corporations (9th ed.), sect. 38.1.
Enough has already been remarked to show that it is immaterial whether the declaration or petition is regarded as an
action ex eontractu or ex delicto, as it is clear that it is not
barred by the prescription of one year, so that the point in

CASE v. BANK.

[Sup. CtL

any view cannot avail the defendant bank. The _Pontchartrain
Railroad Co. v. Heirne, 2 La. An. 129 ; Ware v. BaratariaCo..
15 La. 169 ; .Etting v. The Commercial Bank of New Orleans,
7 Rob. (La.) 459.
No further remarks are required to show that the refusal of
the court to grant the first prayer of the defendant was not
error, in view of the instruction given, as that given was quite
as favorable to the defendant as the law would allow. Nor is
there any just ground of complaint on the part of the defendant that the court refused to give the third request. Instead
of giving that, the court instructed the jury that in order to
enable the plaintiff to recover, they, the jury, must be satisfied
from the evidence that the debt of the owners of the stock was
still due and unpaid, and that if that has not been established
the jury must find for the defendant.
Comment upon these instructions is needless, as it is clear
that the verdict finds that the note is still unpaid.
Exceptions not assigned for error will be passed over without remark as not necessarily re-examinable in this court.
Nothing appears in the case to show that the defendant bank
ever adopted any by-law providing for a lien on the shares of
a stockholder in case of his indebtedness to the bank, nor is it
even shown in this case that the debt, if any, of the owner of
the shares to the bank was contracted before the stock was
pledged to the plaintiff, nor is there any thing given in evidence by the defendant to show that it was inequitable for
the plaintiff to claim the benefit of the collaterals which the
bank held to secure the payment of the note they discounted
for the owners of the stock.
Beyond all doubt, the validity of their debt is established by
the verdict and judgment; and, if so, it requires neither argument nor authorities to show that the order given by the Circuit Court to provide for the payment of the amount recovered
was proper and correct.
Judgment affirmed.

