RAILROAD CO.

v.

TRooK.

[Sup. t

his costs in that court, and, if so, bow much. No appeal lies
from a mere decree respecting costs and expenses. Canter
v. The American and Ocean Insurance Companies, 3 Pet. 307.
As this case comes within the reason of that rule, we affirm
the decree below without examining the merits.
Decree affirmed

RAILROAD ComiPAINY v. TRoOr.
Where a judgment for the recovery of money, affirmed in the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia, is brought here for re-examination, the amount
thereof, without adding interest or costs, determines the value of "the matter
in dispute," under the act of Feb. 25, 1879 (20 Stat. 320), and, if it does not
exceed $2,600, this court has no jurisdiction.

MOTION to dismiss a writ of error to the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia.
Trook, in an action in the court below against the Baltimore
and Potomac Railroad Company, recovered judgment, Feb. 19,
1877, for $4,000 and costs of suit. A motion for a new trial was
then made on exceptions taken during the progress of the cause,
and on account of excessive damages. Trook entered a remittitur of $1,500, and the judgment-was ultimately affirmed at a
hearing in general term. The company then removed the case
here by writ of error, which Trook moves to dismiss, on the
ground that this c6urt, under the act of Feb. 25,1879 (20 Stat.
320), has no jurisdiction, as the "matter in dispute exclusive
of costs" does not exceed "the value of $2,500."
11r. James G. Payne in support of the motion.
Mr. Enoch Totten, contra.
MR. C=F
JuSTIoE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
In cases .brought he -by writ of error for -the re-examination of judgments i-of :affirmance in the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia, ihe" value of the matter in dispute is
determined by the judgment affirmed without .adding interest

Oct. 1879.]

LANSDALE

v.

DANIELS.

or costs. The judgment in this case, after the $1,500 had
been remitted to avoid a new trial, did not exceed $2,500.
Such being the case, under the rule established in Railroad
Conpany v. Grant (98 U. S. 898), our jurisdiction has been
taken away.
The motion to dismiss will ,be granted, each party to pay
his own costs; and it is
,So ordered.

LANSDALE v. DANELS.
A settler upon unsurveyed public lands in California, who filed no declaratory
statement after the return of the plat of the survey to the proper local landoffice, could not, under the act of March 3, 1853 (10 Stat. 244), acquire by his
settlement a right of pre-emption.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of California.

The facts and the assignment of errors are stated in the
opinion of the court.
14r. Rodney illason for the plaintiff in error.
Xr. W. I. Cope and 31r. Walter Van Dyke, contra.
JUSTICE CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Pre-emption rights of the kind in controversy are regulated
by the act of March 3, 1853 (10 Stat. 244), from which it
appears that unsurveyed as well as surveyed lands, not exempted by the same act, are subject to the pre-emption laws,
with all the exceptions, conditions, and limitations expressed
in such, unless otherwise herein provided. Provision is also
made for the appointment of a surveyor-general and of a register and receiver, with the same powers and duties as conferred
and prescribed under the prior pre-emption laws. Official surveys were to be made, and the same section which gives the
right to pre-empt the lands provides that, where unsurveyed
lands are claimed, the usual notice of such claim shall be filed
within three months after the returns of the plats of surveys
to the land-office.
Proceedings in the nature of an action of ejectment were
AI.

VOL.x.

8

