Oct. 1879.]

OATFR V. NATIONAL BANK.

OATs v. NATIONAL

BAwx.

1. The courts of the United States are not bound by the decisions of State
courts upon questions of general commercial law.
2. A creditor who before its maturity accepts a negotiable note, so indorsed that
he becomes a party thereto, as collateral security for a pre-existing debt,
in consideration of an extension of time granted to the debtor, is, according to the law merchant, a holder for value, and his rights as such are
not affected by equities between antecedent parties of which he had no
notice.
3. "Bills of exchange and promissory notes, payable in money at a certain place
of payment therein designated," are, by an act of the legislature of Alabama,
put upon the same basis as to immunity from set-off, discount, or equities
as bills and notes payable at a bank or private banking-house. Such declared to be the intention and effect of the act of April 8, 1873, amending
sect. 1833 of the Revised Code of that State.
4. The legislative intent, clearly expressed, should not be defeated by too rigid
an adherence to the mere letter of the statute, nor an interpretation adopted
which leads to absurd consequences.
5. At the request of its debtor, a national brnk in Alabama gave him further
time, in consideration of his transferring, before maturity, a negotiable note,
as collateral security, and paying in advance usurious interest, for the
period of extension. The note was so indorsed as to make the bank a party
to the instrument, responsible for its due presentation, and for due notice
of non-payment. The consideration being in part legal and in part vicious
it was ladId, 1st, that the former was itself sufficient to sustain the contract
of extension and transfer, and to constitute the bank a holder for value;
2d, that the National Banking Act subjects the bank to liability for taking
usurious interest, but does not declare the contract of indorsement void, and
that no such penalty being prescribed, the courts cannot superadd it.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Middle District of Alabama.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
31r. t.

Hallett Ph llips and

1tr. William C. Oates for the

plaintiff in error.
111r. H. C. Seniqle for the defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HI .LAw delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to a judgment in favor of the First
National Bank of Montgomery, against Oates, the plaintiff in
error, upon a promissory note for $5,200, executed by him at
Eufala, Ala., on the twenty-fifth day of July, 1873, and made
payable on the 1st of December thereafter, to the order of

OATES V. NATIONAL BANK.

L'Sup. Or.

B. 1H. Mlicow, president, at the office of the Tallassee Manufacturing Company, No. 1, in the city of Montgomery. The consideration of the note was fifty shares of the capital stock of
that company purchased by Oates, for which, at the time, he
received a certificate in the customary form. As part of the
contract of purchase, he took from the company a separate
written obligation, reserving to him the option, on the 1st of
December, 1873, at the maturity of the note, of surrendering
the certificate of stock and reoeiving his note duly cancelled.
It appears that he was induced to buy the stock upon certain
representations of the special agent of the company as to its
financial condition. These representations were subsequently
ascertained by him to have been false and fraudulent.
On or about Nov. 4, 1873, Micow applied to the bank for an
extension of time upon certain indebtedness then held by it
against the company, amounting to about e40,000, and all of
which matured thereafter and in that month. That indebtedness had been previously extended, on several occasions, at
usurious rates of interest, paid invariably in advance. The
bank signified its willingness to give an extension for thirty,
sixty, ninety, and one hundred and twenty days, upon collateral security being furnished, and upon the payment in advance for such extension of interest at the rate of one and
one-quarter per cent per month, upon the different classes of
the company's paper by it held. These conditions were complied with, and the extension was accordingly made for the
periods stated. The required interest was not carried into the
extension bills, but was paid in advance. Among the collaterals placed with the bank, under this arrangement, was the note
for 85,00 already described, indorsed in blank, "B. H. Micow,
Prest."
The evidence was somewhat conflicting as to whether the
officers of the bank, at the time of receiving the note in question, had actual notice from Oates as to its consideration. It
was, however, conceded that its president had reason to believe
the note was given for stock of the company. Oates, although
residing af Eufala, was a stockholder and director of the bank.
No inquiry was made of him by the officers of the bank, before
receiving the note as collateral security, as to any defence

Oct. 1879.]

OATES V. NATIONAL BANK.

which he might have against its payment. But it was proven
by them that, when the extension was given to the company,
they had no notice of any defect in or defence to the note, or
of any equities, except such notice as might be implied from
the foregoing facts and the relations of the parties. It is not
claimed that the bank had, at that time, any notice of the
separate written obligation of the manufacturing company to
which we have already referred.
On the 24th of November, 1873, the bank gave written notice
to Oates that it held his note as collateral security for the indebtedness of the company. A few days thereafter he transmitted to the bank the company's agreement or obligation,
under which he had purchased the stock and given his note,
informing its officers that he had, by the same mail, returned
his stock-certificate to the company, and demanded the surrender and cancellation of his note. The bank, replying to
this notification, stated that it had purchased the nQte as negotiable paper, in good faith, for a valuable consideration, and
without notice of any private understanding between Oates
and the company, its officers or agents.
These are the essential facts developed in the record. We
are to inquire whether the court below committed any error of
law to the prejudice of the plaintiff in error.
The first contention of the plaintiff in error is, that, by the
terms of the contract under which he purchased the stock and
gave his note, and in view of the false and fraudulent representations of the company's agent is to its financial condition, he
was entitled, as of absolute right, to surrender the certificate
of stock 9nd have his note returned or cancelled; and, further,
that his defence, upon that ground, was secured to him by the
statutes of the State of Alabama, in force when the contract
was made.
It is clear that, as between the Tallassee Manufacturing
Company and Oates, the defence of the latter is perfect. And
it would undoubtedly be sustained, even against the defendant
in error, were it true, as claimed, that, by the statutes of Alabama, the transfer of the note was without prejudice to any
defence which the maker might assert against the payee.
This renders it necessary that we should ascertain to what
voL. X

16

OATES V. NATIONAL BANE.

[Sup. Ct.

extent, if at all, the rights of parties are affected or controlled
by the statutes of Alabama.
By sect.1833 of the Revised Code of that State it is declared
that "bills of exchange and promissory notes payable in money,
at a bank or private banking-house, are governed by the commercial law, except so far, as the same is changed by this code."
Sect. 1889 declares that "all contracts or writings, except bills
of exchange, promissory notes payable in money at a bank or
private banking-house, and paper issued to circulate as money,
are subject to all payments, set-offs, and discounts had or pos.
sessed against the same, previous to notice of the assignment
or transfer."
Thus stood the law'of Alabama until April 8, 1873, when,
by statute of that date, entitled "An Act to amend sect. 1833
of the Revised Code of Alabama," it was enacted that sect.
1833 (copied in full in the act) "be so amended as to read as
follows: ' Bills and notes payable at a banker's or a designated
place of payment, are negotiable instruments; bills of exchange
and promissory notes payable in money at a bank or a certain
place of payment therein designated, are governed by the commercial law.'" Acts 1872-73, p. 111. By the same statute, sect.
1833, as it then stood in the Revised Code, was expressly repealed. It should be observed that the words "except so far
as the same is changed by this code," in sect. 1833 as it originally stood, are omitted from that section as remodelled by the
act of 1873.
The argument of the plaintiff in error is, that although, by
the explicit declaration in the act of 1878, "bills and notes
payable in money at a certain place of payment, therein designated," are negotiable instruments, t6 be governed by the
commercial law, such bills and notes are, nevertheless, under
sect. 1839, "1
subject to all payments, set-offs, and discounts had
or possessed against the same, previous to notice of the assignment or transfer." We concur with th court below in holding
that construction to be wholly inadmissible. It seems that
upon this precise point there has been no direct adjudication
by the Supreme Court of Alabama, to which primarily belongs
the duty of giving authoritative construction of the statutes
of that State. The only case in that court to which we are

Oct. 1879.]

OATES v.

NATIONAL

BANK.

referred, that has any bearing upon this question, is Cook v.
Mutual Insurance Co., 53 Ala. 37. Jones, it seems, gave to
Cook, in 1871, a promissory note, payable to the order of the
latter at the office of W. H. Roberts, Mobile, and indorsed by
the payee to the insurance company. In an action instituted
by the latter against Cook, the question arose as to whether
the note was commercial paper, protected, in the hands of a
bona fide holder for value, against defences resting upon payment, set-off, or discount. The inferior State court ruled that
it was paper of that kind; but the Supreme Court of Alabama
held that the note, when made, was not commercial paper, and
that the rights and liabilities of the parties were to be determined by the statute in force at the date of its execution.
That court, speaking by its Chief Justice, said: "Since the
making of the promissory note, on the indorsement of which
this suit is founded, the statute of April 8, 1873, has converted promissory notes, payable in money at a designated
place, into negotiable instruments governed by the commercial
law. It operates on the nature and obligation of the contract
of the parties to such notes, and cannot be construed as affecting notes made and indorsed prior to its passage. The law
in force when the note is made and indorsed regulates and
defines the liability of the parties." No other reasons are assigned in support of the conclusion that the act of 1873 did
not control the case. It is quite manifest from the language
employed by the court, that, bad the note there in suit :been
executed subsequently to the act of 1873, it would have sustained the ruling of the inferior State court, and excluded all
defences inconsistent with the established doctrines of the
commercial law. Such, in our opinion, must have been its
determination upon any proper construction of the act of
1873. It is true that that statute does not in express words
amend sect. 1839, whereby'only "bills of exchange and promissory notes, payable in money at a bank or private bankinghouse, and paper issued to circulate as morey," are, in terms,
protected against payments, set-offs, and discounts, which the
maker might assert in the case of all other contracts and writings. But it is perfectly evident that the object of the act of
1873 was to place bills of exchange and promissory notes, pay-'

244

OATES v. NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

able at a certain designated place of payment, upon exactly
the same basis, as to immunity from set-off, discount, or equities, as the statute prescribed in reference to bills and notes
payable at a bank or private banking-house. In declaring
that bills and notes of the former class were negotiable instruments, to be governed by the commercial law, the legislature
necessarily intended to throw around such paper the same protection that had previously been given by statute to bills and
notes payable at banks or private banking-houses. If such
was not its object, then, confessedly, the act of 1873 was both
meaningless and illusory. The duty of the court, being satisfied of the intention of the legislature, clearly expressed in a
constitutional enactment, is to give effect to that intention, and
not to defeat it by adhering too rigidly to the mere letter of
the statute, or to technical rules of construction. Wilklhznor
v. Leland, 2 Pet. 627; Sedgwick, Const. and Stat. Constr.
196. And we should discard any construction that would lead
to absurd consequences. United States v. Kirby, 7 Wall. 482.
We ought, rather, adopting the language of Lord Hale, to be
"curious and subtle to invent reasons and means " to carry out
the clear intent of the law-making power when thus expressed.
The defence of the plaintiff in error would be good under sect.
1839, if no regard was had to the act of 1873; but since that
statute expressly included notes payable at a certain designated
place in the class of negotiable instruments to be governed by
the commercial law,- which could not be if sect. 1839 be
enforced according to its literal import,- the judiciary must
respect the latest expression of the legislative will, and not
permit it'to be eluded by mere construction. "A thing which
is within the intention of the makers of a statute is as much
within the statute as if it were within the letter; and a thing
which is within the letter of the statute-is not within the
statute unless it be within the meaning of the makers."
Suciley v. Purse, 15 Johns. (N. Y.) 338; Te People v. Utica
Insurance Co., id. 357, 380.
For these reasons we are of opinion that the statutes of
Alabama do not permit, as against a bona fide holder, for'
value, of a "promissory note, payable in money at a certain
place of payment therein designated," defences which are dis-

Oct. 1879.]

cATES v. NATIONAL BANK.

allowed in cases where the note is payable at a bank or private
banking-house.
Giving to the Alabama statute the construction indicated,
our next inquiry is, whether the bank, under the circumstances
disclosed in this case, became, according to the recognized principles of comnuercial law, a bona fide holder for value of the
note in suit. That it acquired the note in good faith, without
fraud, we are not permitted by the evidence to doubt. Its
officers were not bound to inquire of Oates, before they took
the note, whether he had any defence or set-off. They rightfully supposed, as the face of the note imported, that he had
undertaken absolutely to pay the amount specified at the time
and place designated. That the president of the bank had
reason to believe it was given for stock of the Tallassee Manufacturing Company is a fact of no significance whatever in
determining the question of good faith. Having no knowledge
or notice of the private agreement between Oates and the company, as set forth in the separate obligation of the latter, which
was withheld from the public, the bank officers justly assumed
that there was no circumstance attending the sale of the stock
which could lessen the obligation of Oates to pay the note according to its tenor and effect.
But it is contended that by the rules of commercial law, as
recognized by the Supreme Court of Alabama, one who receives
a promissory note as collateral security for a pre-existing debt
does not become a purchaser for value, in the course of business,
so as to cut off equities which the maker may have against the
payee. Such was declared to be the settled doctrine of that
court in Fenouille v. Ham ilton, 35 Ala. 319. But the opinion
in that case contains some passages which apply with peculiar
force to a suit like this. The court said: "In this case there
was no other consideration for the transfer of the note to the
defendant than the security of the pre-existing indebtedness of
the defendant's indorsee. The fact that the defendaat may
have been led to grant indulgence, or forbear to enforce his
remedies for the collection of the debts, does not prove that
such indulgence or forbearance was an element of the contract,
or the consideration upon which it was made. If there was
any forbearance by the defendant, it was a voluntary act to

OATES

v.

NATIONAL

BANK.

[Sup. t

which he may have been persuaded by the collateral security,
and may have resulted from a consciousness of security; but
such forbearance was not the result of contract, and is not
shown to have been the consideration of it." Had there been,
in that case, a present consideration for the transfer of the note
beyond giving security for a pre-existing debt, or had the forbearance of the creditor to enforce his remedies been an element in a binding contract, under which the collateral security
was furnished, we are persuaded that the Alabama court would
have ruled that the creditor, in receiving the collateral, became
a holder for value in the course of business. But, if we are
mistaken in our interpretation of the decision of the Supreme
Court of Alabama, the result will not follow for which plaintiff
in error so earnestly contends. While the Federal courts must
regard the laws of the several States, and their construction by
the State courts (except when the Constitution, treaties, or
statutes of the United States otherwise provide) as rules of decision in trials at common law in the courts of the United States,
in cases where applicable, they are not bound by the decisions
of those courts upon questions of general commercial law.
Such is the established doctrine of this court, so frequently
announced that we need only refer to a few of the leading
cases bearing upon the subject. Swift v. Tyson, 16 Pet. 1;
CGaipenter v. .Prov. Ins. Co., id. 495; . Watson v. Tarpley, 18
How. 517. We have already seen that the statutes of Alabama
placed under the protection of the commercial law promissory
notes, payable in money at a certain designated place; but how
far the rights of parties here are affected by the rules and
doctrines of that law is for the Federal courts to determine
upon their own judgment as to what these rules and doctrines are.
Upon principle and authority, we do not doubt that the
defendant in 'error was, in the sense of the commercial law, a
bona fide holder for value of the note in suit. In Swift v. Tyson
(supra), cited by counsel, this court, speaking by Mr. Justice
Story, said that it entertained no doubt " that a bona fide holder
for a pre-existing debt of a negotiable instrument is not affected
by any equities between antecedent parties, when he has received the same before it became due, without notice of any

Oct 1879.]

OATES

v. NATIONAL BANK.

such equities." In some of the State courts the authority of
that case has been disputed, so far as the language of the court
referred to collateral security received for a pre-existing debt,
upon the ground that the note there in suit was transferred in
payment of, and not as security for, a pre-existing debt, and
that, consequently, the opinion expressed in the language just
quoted, was unnecessary to the decision of the point in issue.
In the more recent case of Goodman v. Simonds (20 How. 334),
it was contended -tba. a party who took negotiable paper
inerely as collateral security for a pre-existing debt did not
acquire it in the usual course of 'business, but took it subject
to prior equities. The court being of opinion that no such
question was presenteed by the record, waived its consideration.
But after an extended review of the authorities, American and
Eiiglish, the court, speaking through 2kIr. Justice Clifford, said:
"It seemis now to be agreed that, if there was a present consideration at the time of the transfer, independent of the previous indebtedness, a party acquiring a negotiable instrument,
before its maturity, as a collateral security to a pre-existing
debt, without knowledge of the facts which impeach the title
as between the antecedent parties, thereby becomes a holder in
the usual course of business, and that his title is complete, so
that it will be unaffected by any prior equities between other
parties, at least to the extent of the previous debt, for which it
is used as collateral."
That language would seem to be conclusive of the question
under consideration. There was here a present consideration
at the time of the transfer, independent of the indebtedness of
the manufacturing company to the bank. That consideration
as to the bank was the unconditional extension of time upon
all the company's indebtedniess, for different periods reaching
beyond the maturity of the note transferred as collateral security. Such extension for fixed periods was a cardinal element
of the contract. The creditor forbore pursuit of the remedies
which the law supplied for the enforcement of his demands,
then soon to mature, in consideration of collateral security
being furnished, and in consideration also of the payment by
the debtor of usurious interest in advance. Besides, having
received the note, indorsed so that it became a party thereto,

248

OATEs v. NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

the bank was bound to observe all the rules of the law merchant as to presentation, protest, and notice of non-payment.
It did not receive the note as the agent of the debtor, and
merely for collection. It took it under all the responsibility as
to presentation, protest, and notice of dishonor, which attached
to absolute ownership, and became liable to have the note treated
as payment pro tarto, if there were a failure to make due presentation, and, in the event of non-payment, to give proper
notice to the creditor. The debtor could not. withdraw his
indorsement after delivering the note, under the contract for
extension, nor could the bank, after receiving the note under
that contract, disregard its agreement for forbearance. Nor
was the bank any the less bound by the contract for extension
because of the payment in advance of usurious interest by its
debtor. Although the taking of usurious interest subjected
the bank to certain forfeitures prescribed by law, and to an
action by the debtor, if he so elected, to recover twice the
amount so paid by him, it could not, of its own volition or by
its own act, avoid the contract for indulgence because of such
payment of usury. The payment in advance was itself a sufficient consideration for the extension, in the sense that the
bank would not be allowed to repudiate its agreement, upon
the ground that it had taken usurious interest in violation of
law. 2 Daniel, Neg. Inst., sect. 1317. But independent of that
aspect of the case, and throwing out of view altogether the
usurious feature of the contract, we are of opinion that a creditor, who takes a. negotiable note before maturity, so indorsed
that he becomes a party to the instrument as collateral security
for a pre-existing debt, and in consideration of an extension of
time to the debtor, actually granted, is, according to the law
merchant, a holder for value, and that his rights as such holder
cannot be affected by equities between antecedent parties, of
which he had no notice. Goodman v. Simonds, supra ; 1 Parsons, Notes and Bills, 221-228; Story, Promissory Notes, sect.
195, notes (7th ed., by Thorndike); 1 Daniel, Neg. Inst. (2d
ed.), sects. 820, 832, and notes; Leading Cases upon Bills of
Exchange arid Promissory Notes, by Redfield and Bigelow,
186-217, and notes. Whether the taking of such note merely
az collateral se-3urity for antecedent debts, without any binding

Oct. 1879.]

OATES v.

NATIONAL

BANK.

contract for indulgence, would constitute a valuable consideration within the established rules of commercial law, protecting
the creditor against defences or equities between antecedent
parties, of which he had no notice, it is not necessary now to
decide. That precise question is not presented in this case, and
we forbear to express any opinion upon it.
One other question remains to be considered. Counsel for
plaintiff in error have pressed with much vigor the suggestion
that the bank, consistently with public policy, should not be
regarded as a ona fide holder for value of the note in suit,
since the contract under which it received the note involved
in its execution a direct violation of the statutes against usury.
We are referred in support of that position to several decisions
of the Supreme Court of Alabama which, it must be conceded,
announce the broad doctrine that one "who has become the
indorsee of a bill, by violating the provisions of a statute, caninot with any degree of propriety be said to be a bona fide
holder in the usual course of trade." 13 Ala. 410 ; 14 id. 688 ;
16 id. 406. Without extending this opinion by a critical
examination of those cases, we repeat that in the determination of such a question we are not bound by the decisions of the
State court. The question is one of general law, and depends
in nowise for its solution upon local laws and usages.
*"re are referred, in this connection, to two cases, Levy
v. Gadshy (3 Cranch, 180), and Gaither v. The Farmers' &
ilehanes' Bank, 1 Pet. 37. The first is so meagrely reported
that it is difficult to see the precise ground upon which the
conclusion of the court was placed, and the second is clearly
distinguishable from this. There, a note was indorsed and
delivered as collateral security for a pre-existing debt, evidenced by a note given on a usurious contract. The case
was held to be governed by the statute of Maryland, which
declared "all bonds, contracts, and assurances whatever,
taken on a usurious contract," to be utterly void. Under
that statute the contract of indorsement was held to be void.
In the eye of the law, it was as though it had never existed,
and consequently no cause of action, it was adjudged, passed
to the indorsee.
The case in hand is altogether different. The statute under

OATES V. NATIONAL BANK.

LSup. Ct.

which the bank was organized, known as the National Banking
Act, does not declare the contract, under which the usurious
interest is paid, to be void.
It denounces no penalty other than a forfeiture of the interest which the note or bill carries, giving to the debtor the right
to sue for and recover twice the amount of interest so paid.
If we should declare the contract of indorsement void, and,
consequently, that no right of action passed to the bank on the
note transferred as collateral security, an additional penalty
would thus be added beyond those imposed by the law itself.
"On what principle could this court add another to the
penalties declared by the law itself ?" Be Wolf v. Johnson,
10 Wheat. 36T; Farmers' & Meehanics' National Bank v.
Dearing, 91 U. S. 29 ; Barnett v. National Bank, 98 id. 555.
Besides, in this case, the forbearance extended to the debtor
was not upon the sole consideration of usurious interest paid in
advance: it was upon the additional and substantial consideration that the debtor corporation gave collateral security for
the payment of indebtedness about to mature, and which it
confessed its inability to meet. We have already seen that
the transfer of the note before maturity, as collateral security,
and so indorsed that the bank became a party to the instrument under obligation to make due presentment and give due
notice of non-payment, was itself a sufficient consideration to
constitute the bank a bona fide holder for value, within the
recognized principles of the law merchant. The presence,
then, in the contract under which the note was indorsed and
delivered to the bank of an additional consideration, - the payment in advance of usurious interest, - which the law declares
to be vicious and illegal, ought not to destroy the entire contract of indorsement, when there is a sufficient consideration,
aside from the usury paid, upon which it may rest.
We are of opinion that no error of law was committed by
the court below.
Judgment afflrned.

