0-,. 1879.]

KIRTLAND V. HOTCHKISS.

law for making sales of real property in ordinary cases. It is
a settled rule in this court never to allow counsel on either side
to be paid out of the fund in dispute.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals of Virginia, so far as
it concerns the claim of the plaintiffs in error, will be reversed,
and the cause remanded for , further proceedings in conformity
with this opinion; and it is
So ordered.

KIRTLAND V. HOTCHKISS.
1. This court can afford the citizen of a State no relief from the enforcement
of her laws prescribing the mode and subjects of taxation, if they neither
trench upon Federal authority nor violate any right recognized or secured
by the Constitution of the United States.
2. The Constitution does not prohibit a State from taxing her resident citizens
for debts held by them against a non-resident, evidenced by his bonds, payment whereof is secured by his deeds of trust or mortgages upon real
estate situate in another State.
8. For the purposes of taxation, a debt has its situs at the residence of the cred.
itor, and may be there taxed.

ERnOR to the Supreme Court of Errors, Litchfield County,
State of Connecticut.
Charles W. Kirtland, a citizen of Connecticut, instituted
this action for the purpose of restraining the enforcement of
certain tax-warrants levied upon his real estate in the town in
which he resided, in satisfaction of certain State taxes, assessed against him Lor the years 1869 and 1870. The 'assessment was by reason of his ownership, during those years, of
certain bonds, executed in Chicago, and made payable to him,
his executor_, administrators, or assigns in that city, at such
place as he or they should. by writing appoint, and, in default
of such appointment, at the Manufacturers' National Bank of
Chicago. Each bond declared that "it is made under, and is,
in all respects, to be construed by the laws of Illinois, and is
given for an actual loan of money, made at the city of Chicago,
by the said Charles W. Kirtland to the said Edwin A. Cummins, on the day of the date hereof." They were secured by

KIRTLAND V. HOTCHKISS.

[Sup. OL

deeds of trust, executed by the obligor to one Perkins, of that
city, upon real estate there situated, the trustee having power
by the terms of the deed to sell and convey the property and
apply the proceeds in payment of the loan, in case of default
on the part of the obligor to perform the stipulations of the
bond.
The statute of Connecticut, under which the assessment was
made, declares, among other things, that personal property in
that State "or elsewhere" should be deemed, for purposes of
taxation, to include all moneys, credits, choses in action, bonds,
notes, stocks (except United States stocks), chattels, or effects,
or any interest thereon; and that such personal property or
interest thereon, being the property of any person resident in
the State, should 'be valued and assessed at its just and true
value in the tax-list of the town where the owner resides.
The statute expressly exempts from its operation money or
property actually invested in the business of merchandizing or
manufacturing, when located out of the State. - Conn. Revision
of 1866, p. 709, tit. 64, c. 1, sect. 8.
The court below held that the assessments complained of
were in conformity to the State law, and that the law itself
did not infringe any constitutional right of the plaintiff.
This writ of error is prosecuted by Kirtland upon the ground,
among others, that the statute of Connecticut thus interpreted
and sustained is repugnant to the Constitution of the United
States.
Ar. AIsh6el Green, AIr. William Cothren, and .r. Julien T.
-Davies, for the plaintiff in error.
The statutes of Connecticut in question are unconstitutional,
because, I. They regulate commerce among the several States.
Const. U. S., art. 1, subd. 3, sect. 8; Laws of Conn., Revision
of 1866, p. 709, tit. 64, c. 1, sect. 8, p. 713, sect. 24; Laws of
1872, c. 113. The power to impose discriminating burdens
upon property is a power to prohibit or destroy. The plaintiff
in error was burdened on account of the foreign origin of his
bonds and mortgages, and was therefore unconstitutionally
taxed. Welton v. State of M1issouri, 91 U. S. 275; Brown v.
Maryland, 12 Wheat. 436; Crandall v. State of Nevada,

Oct. 1879.]

KIRTLAND V. HOTOHKISS.

6 Wall. 35; Case of the State .Freight Tax, 15 id. 232 ; Coo v.
Pennsylvania, 97 U. S. 566. The grant of power by the Constitution to Congress to regulate commerce was intended to
secure absolutely and uniformly free commerce between the

States.

Crandall v. State of Nevada, supra; Brie Railroad

Co. v. State, 31 N. J. L. 531. Money is both the subject
and instrument of commerce. Johnson, J., in Gibbons v.
Ogden, 9 Wheat. 589; McLean, J., in Nathan v. Louisiana,
8 How. 80; Daniel, J., in United States v. Harigold, 9 id. 567.
The uneonstitutionality of a tax is determined by the subject
upon which the tax is laid. St. Louis v. Perry Company, 11
Wall. 423; Ward v. 111aryland, 12 id. 418; Case of the State
.FreightTax, supra. The tax falls, in this case, upon money
that is exported from Connecticut. If it be constitutional, that
State could, so far as loaning money is concerned, prescribe
non-intercourse between her citizens and those of other States.
For the purposes of taxation, no deduction from the assessed
valuation of his real estate is permitted to a paxty in Illinois,
by reason of his mortgage indebtedness. Connecticut attempts
to regulate commerce among the several States, inasmuch
as her statutes discriminate in taxation against resident
mortgagees who loan in Illinois, where no such deduction is
permitted, in favor of her own residents, making similar loans
on lands within her own limits. Revision of 1866, tit. 64, c. 1,
pp. 709, 715, sects. 8, 35, 36, 37.
II. They "abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of
the United States." Fourteenth Amendment Const., sect. 1.
One of these "privileges or immunities" is the right to pass in
and out of all the States. Crandall v. State of Nevada, supra.
This right cannot exist in conjunction with a nullifying right
by the State where the citien resides to tax or impose discriminating burdens upon him for his acts, his lawful business, or his
property in another State. Lamb v. Bowser, 7 Biss. 315, 372.
III. They tax property or business situated without the State
of Connecticut.
The maxim that personal property follows the owner has no
force, independent of comity. Savigny, System des Heutigen
R'mischen Rechts, vol. viii. p. 171, sect. 366; Wharton's Private International Law, sects. 11, 13, 297. See p. 126, id.;

KIRTLAND V. HOTCHKISS.

[Sup. Ct.

Green v. Fan .Buskirk,7 Wall. 150; Hervey v. Rhode Island
Locomotive Works, 93 U. S. 664; Lewis v. Woodford, 58 Tenn.
25 ; Birtwhistle v. TPardill, 3 Barn. & Cress. 438, 451.
It has no application to the taxation of visible tangible property, .Hoyt v. Commissioners of Taxes, 23 N. Y. 224; Pacific
Steamship Co. v. Commissioners of Taxes, 46 How. Pr. (N. Y.)
315; State Tax on FYoreign-held Bonds, 15 Wall. 300; nor to
the taxation of negotiable choses in action. State Tax on
Foreign-held Bonds Case, supra; British Com. Life Ins. Co. v.
Commissioners of Taxes, 31 N. Y. 32; State of lissouri v. St.
Louis County, 47 Mo. 594; People v. Home Ins. Co., 29 Cal. 533;
Attorney-Generalv. Bowens, 4 Mee. & W. 172. It does not apply
to non-negotiable choses in action, in cases of administration of
the assets of a deceased person, Beirs v. Shannon, 73 N.Y. 292;
.Noonan v. Bradley, 9 WalL-405; see Journal da Palais, Cour
de Cassation, Aug. 27, 1850 (1851, p. 205) ; nor in cases of confiscation, Miller v. United States, 11 Wall. 268; Brown v. Kennedy, 15 id. 591; 3 Phillimore, International Law, sect. 567,
p. 688; nor in cases of foreign bankruptcy, Ogden v. Saunders,
12 Wheat. 858; Harrisonv. Stenny, 5 Cranch, 289, nor in cases
of attachment. It has no proper application to non-negotiable
choses in action in cases of taxation. Attorney- General v.
.Dimond, 1 Cromp. & J. 356; Attorney-General v. Hope, 8 Bli.
N. s. 44; Burchese, Operations de Ia Bourse, Paris, 1877,
pp. 248, 861; Tappan v. Merchants' National Bank, 19 Wall.
490; Fisher v. Commissioners of Bush County, 19 Kan. 414;
'arner v. Calhoun, 48 Ala. 178; Bridges v. Mayor, 33 Ga. 113.
The tax in question does not fall upon a "person," because it
is not a poll-tax. A tax upon a person, with reference to. his
property, falls upon the property. Bank of Commerce v. Yew
Fork City, 2 Black, 620; Bank Tax Case, 2 Wall. 200. It is
not a tax upon property situated in Connecticut. 1. The money
lent by the plaintiff in error belongs to his debtor. Bailway
Company v. Jackson, 7 Wall. 263. See 42 Conn. 438. 2. The
bonds have always been in Illinois, and cannot be taxed by Connecticut. Hoyt v. Commissioners, 23 N. Y. 224; State Tax on
Foreign-held Bonds, supra. 3. The debts evidenced by the
bonds are not valuable independent of the debtor's property,
which can be taxed only in Illinois, where it is situated,

Oct. ISTrg.]

KIRTLAND V. HOTCHKISS.

4. The rights of the plaintiff in error, evidenced by his bonds,
are protected only by Illinois, and hence cannot be taxed by
Connecticut. Tappan v. Aterchants' Nat. Bank, 19 Wall. 440;
Catlin v. Hall, 21 Vt. 122; Fisher v. Commissioners of Bush
Co., 19 Kan. 414; Bridges v. MIayor, 33 Ga. 113; People v.
Gardiner,51 Barb. (N. Y.) 352; 'arner v. Calhoun, 48 Ala.
178. It really falls on acts of business performed and to be
performed in Illinois, of which the bonds are the record and
the evidence. Wolsey's Political Science, vol. i p. 75. Those
acts of business have an exclusive situs for taxation in Illinois,
whose jurisdiction alone protects them.
IV. They-are repgnant to the exclusive sovereignty of
Illinois over property and acts of business within her borders,
and hence are void under the provisions of the Constitution of
the United States. 1. The laws of Connecticut should not
be allowed to affect property and business whose situs is in
Illinois. The power of Illinois to tax money within .her limits,
or an act of loaning and borrowing money there, must, under
our form of government, exclude the power of another State
'from taxing Illinois money, or an act of loaning and borrowing
in Illinois. Mlager v.*Grima et al., 8 How. 490; Story's Conil.
of Laws, p. 257; The Appolon, 9 Wheat. 370; Ogden v. Saunders, 12 id. 213; Hervey v. Locomotive Works, 93 U. S. 664;
Pennoyer v. .reff, 95 id. 722; Guillanderv. Howell, 35 N. Y.
657; Lamb v. Bowser, 7 Biss. 315; Desmazes v. 31utual Ben.
Life Ins. Co., 7 Ins. L. J. 927; Baldwiin v. Hale, 1 Wall. 223;
Green v. Collins, 3 Cliff. 494; .D'Arcy v. Ketehum, 11 How.
73; Whitcomb v. Phceniz Ins. Co., 8 Its. L. J. 624. 2. No express provision of the United States Constitution is necessary,
if its spirit sustains a prohibition upon the interference of one
State with the sovereignty of another. Ward v. 13far'land,
12 Wall. 427; McCuilough v. J7aryland,4 Wheat. 416; Cran.
dall v. State of Nevada, 6 Wall. 35; PassengerTax Cases, 7 How.
283; Weston v. City of Charleston, 2 Pet. 462. 3. The tax laws
of Illinois are, and those of Connecticut are not, a part of the
contracts evidenced by plaintiff's bonds.. Taxation of them by
Connecticut lays a greater burden upon the contracts than Illinois has declared they shall bear. The statutes in question
fail to give "full faith and credit" to the "public acts" of

KIRTLAND V. HOTCHKISS.

[Sup. Ot.

Illinois. Const. U. S., art. 4, sect. 1; Edwards v. Kearey, 96
U. S. 595; Walker v. Whiteh~ead, 16 Wall. 314.
V. They impair the obligation of the plaintiff's contract, and
deprive him of a portion of its fruits. Such an impairment is
forbidden by the Constitution of the United States. Walker v.
Whitehead, 16 Wall. 314; Planters'Bank v. Sharp, 6 How. 301.
VI. They deprive the plaintiff in error of his property without due process of law. Fourteenth Amendment, Const. U. S.
1. The advertisement of sale by the defendant in error of plaintiff's land is the first step of a "taking" of his land. 2. Such
advertisement -was without "due process of law," because the
statutes conferring the power to advertise being unconstitutional conferred no jurisdiction upon any person to tax or
to sell the land. There can be no "due process of law," even
in attempted taxation, without jurisdiction of the subject of
taxation, and such jurisdiction does not exist in the absence of
protection of that subject by the taxing power. United States
v. Rice, 4 Wheat. 246; Wicks v. Dinyee, 7 Cranch, 481; St.
Louis v. Ferry Co., 11 Wall. 430; State' Tax on Foreign-held
Bonds, supra; Tappan v. Merchants' Bank, 19 id. 490 ; Railroad Tax, 18 id. 229; Loan Association v. Topeka, 20 id. 655.
An arbitrary execution on a subject not within the jurisdiction
of a State is not taxation but confiscation.
VII. They violate sect. 2, art. 4, of the Constitution of the
United States, which declares -that "the citizens of each State
shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of citizens in
the several States." See art. 4 of Articles of Confederation;
Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 75. The business of loaning
money is thus guaranteed to a citizen of another State upon
the same footing as to taxation with the citizens of the State
within which the business is carried on. Corfield v. Corzell, 4
Wash. 371; Paulv. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168; Williams v. Bruffy,
96 U. S.176; Ward v. Maryland, 12 Wall. 430; Bradwell v.
State, 16 id. 130; Crandallv. State of Nevada, 6 id. 35.
JTrr. Morris I. Seymour, contra.
MNR. JUSTICE HARLAN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the ourt.
We will not foliow the interesting argument of counsel by

Oct. 1879.]

KIRLAND

V. HOTCHKISS.

entering upon an extended discussion of the principles upon
which the powc, of taxation rests under our system of constitutional government. Nor is it at all necessary that we should
now attempt to state all limitations which exist upon the
exercise of that power, whether they arise from the essential
principles of free government or from express constitutional
provisions. We restrict our remarks to a single question, the
precise import of which will appear from the preceding statement of the more important facts of this case.
In MeCulloch v. State of 31aryland (4 Wheat. 428), this
court considered very fully the nature and extent of the original right of taxation which remained with the States after the
adoption of the Federal Constitution. It was there said "that
the power of taxing the people and their property is essential
to the very existence of government, and may be legitimately
exercised on the objects to which it is applicable to the utmost
extent to which the government may choose to carry it."
Tracing the right of taxation to the source from which it was
dcrived, the court further said: " It is obvious that it is an
incident of sovereignty, and is coextensive with that to which
it is an incident. All subjects over which the sovereign power
of a State extends are objects of taxation, but those over which
it does not extend are, upon the soundest principles, exempt
from taxation."
"This vital power," said this -court in Providence Bank v.
Billiags (4 Pet. 563), "may be abused; but the Constitution
of the United States was not intended to furnish the corrective
for every abuse of power which may be committed by the State
governments. The interest, wisdom, and justice of the representative body, and its relations with its constituents, furnish
the only security, when there is no express contract, against
unjust and excessive taxation, as well as against unwise legislation."
In St. Louis v. The Perry Company (11 Wall. 423), and in
State Tax on Foreign-heldJBands (15 id. 300), the language of
the court was equalf emphatic.
In the last-named case we said that, "unless restrained by
provisions of the Federal Constitution, the power of the State
as to the mode, form, and extent of taxation is unlimited,
voL. x.

32

KIITLAND V. HOTCHKISS.

[SuR. Ct.

where the subjects to which it applies are within her jurisdiction."
We perceive no reason to modify the principles "announced
in these cases or to question their soundness. They are fundamental and vital in the relations which, under the Constitution,
exist between the United States and the several States. Upon
their strict observance depends, in no small degree, the harmonious and successful working of our complex system of government, Federal and State. It may, therefore, be regarded as the
established doctrine of this court, that so long as the State, by
its laws, prescribing the mode and subjects of taxation, does
not entrench upon the legitimate authority of the Union, or
violate any right recognized, or secured, by the Constitution of
the United States, this court, as between the State and its
citizen, can afford him no relief against State taxation, however unjust, oppressive, or onerous.
Plainly, therefore; our only duty is to inquire whether the
Constitution prohibits a State from taxing, in the bands of one
of its resident citizens, a debt held by him upon a resident
of another State, and evidenced by the bond of the debtor,
secured by deed of trust or mortgage upon real estate situated
' in the State in which the debtor-resides.
The question does not seem to us to be very difficult ot
solution. The creditor, it is conceded, is a permanent resident
within the jurisdiction of the State imposing the tax. The
debt is property in his hands constituting a portion of his
wealth, from which he is under the highest obligation, in
common with his fellow-citizens of the same State, to contribute for the support of-the government whose protection he
enjoys.
That debt, although a species of intangible property, may,
for purposes of taxation, if not for all others, be regarded as
situated at the domicile of the creditor. It is none the less
property because its Amount and maturity are set forth in a
bond. That "bond, wherever actually held or deposited, is
only evidence of the debt, and if destroyed, the debt-the
right to demand payment of the money loaned, with the stipulated interest -remains.
Nor is the debt, for the purposes of
taxatiofi, affected by the fact that it is secured by mortgage

a.1879.]

KIRTLAND V. HOTCHKISS.

upon real estate situated in Illinois. The mortgage is but a
security for the debt, and, as held in State Tax on Foreignheld Bonds (supra), the right of the creditor "to proceed against
the property mortgaged, upon a given contingency, to enforce
by ita sale the payment of his demand, . . has no locality independent of the party in whom it resides. It may undoubtedly be taxed by the State when held by a resident therein,"
&c. Cooley on Taxation, 15, 63, 134, 270. The debt, then,
having its situs at the creditor's residence, both he and it are,
for the purposes of taxation, within the jurisdiction of the
State. It is, consequently, for the State to determine, consistently with its own fundamental law, whether such property
owned by one of its residents shall contribute, by way of taxation, to maintain its government. Its discretion in that regard
cannot be supervised or controlled by any department of the
Federal government, for the reason, too obvious to require
argument in its support, that such taxation violates no provision of the Federal Constitution. Manifestly it does not, as is
supposed by counsel, interfere in any true sense with the exercise by Congress of the power to regulate commerce among the
several States.
'athanv. Lousiana, 8 How. 73; Cooley on
Taxation, 62. Nor does it, as is further supposed, abridge the
privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States, or
deprive the citizen of life, liberty, or property without due
process of law, or violate the constitutional guaranty.that the
citizens of each State shall be entitled to all privileges of
citizens in the several States.
Whether the State of Connecticut shall measure the contribution which persons resident within its jurisdiction shall
make by way of taxes, in return for the protection it affords
them, by the value of the credits, choses in action, bonds, or
stockk which they may own (other than such as are exempted
or protected from taxation under the Constitution and laws
of the United States), is a matter which concerns only the
people of that State, with which the Federal government cannot rightly interfere.
Judgment affirmed

