NEWTON V. COMISSIONERS.

[Slip. Ct.

for any error in the assessment. Whether that court decided
that question correctly or not, it is not a Federal question, but
one of general municipal law, to be governed either by the
common law or the statute law of the State. In either case it
presents no question on which this court is authorized to review the judgment of a State court.
That decision is also conclusive of the whole case. If the
defendants, in assessing property for taxation, incur no personal
liability for any error they may commit, the fact that th( error
consisted in a misconstruction of an act of Congress can make
no difference. An officer whose duty personally, as the Court
of Appeals of New York holds, is mainly judicial, is no more
liable for a mistaken construction of an act of Congress than
he would be for mistaking the common law or a State statute.
We inay observe, also, that the Federal right mainly relied
on here as having been violated, namely, the right to have
plaintiff's indebtedness deducted from the valuation of his
bank shares, was not raised, because he did not, as in the
previous case, make the necessary affidavit and demand.
On the whole, there is no error which this court can review.
Jddgment affirmed.

NEWTON v.

COnISSIONERS.

1. By an act of the legislature of Ohio, passed Feb. 16, 1846, it was provided
that, upon the fulfilment of certain terms and conditions by the proprietors
or citizens of the town of Canfield, in Mahoning County, the county seat

should be "permanently established" at that town. Those terms and conditions having been complied with, the county seat was established accordingly. On April 9, 1874, the legislature passed an act providing for tne
removal of the county seat to Youngstown. Certain citizens of Canfivld
thereupon filed their bill setting forth that the act of 1840, and the proceedings thereunder, constituted, within the meaning of the Constitution, an
-executed contract the obligation of which was impaired by the later act,

and praying for a perpetual injunction against the contemplated removal.
Held, 1. That no such contract existed. 2. That the act of 1816 was a
public law relating to a public subject with respect to which the legislature
which enacted it had no power to bind a subsequent one. 3. That if that
act and the proceedings under it constituted a contract, it was satisfied on
the part of the State by establishing the county seat at Canfield, uith the

Oct. 1879.]

NEWTON V. COMISSIONERS.

intent that it should remain there. 4. That there was no stipulation that the
county seat should remain there in perpetuity. 5. That the practical interpretation of the phrase "permanently established," which has been in long
and frequent use in the statutes of Ohio with respect to county seats established otherwise than temporarily, is, though by no means conclusive,
entitled to consideration.
2. In the interpretation of statutes like that of 1846 (supra), the rule is that,
as against the State, nothing is to be taken as conceded but what is given
in express and explicit terms, or by an implication equally clear.

EnroR to the Supreme Court of the State of Ohio.
The controversy relates to the removal of a county seat in
Ohio from one town to another.
The case, briefly stated, is this: On Feb. 16, 1846, the
General Assembly of that State passed "An Act to create the
county of Mahoning." The first section creates the county and
defines its boundaries, including among other towns Canfield
and Youngstown, and declares that it "shall be known by the
name of Mahoning, with the county seat at Canfield."
The fifth and eighth sections are as follows : "SECT. 5. That the Court of Common Pleas and Supreme Court
of said county shall be holden at some convenient house in the town
of Canfield until suitable county buildings shall be erected."
"SECT. 8. That before the seat of justice shall be considered permanently established at Canfield, the proprietors or citizens thereof
shall give bond with good and sufficient security, payable to the
conmissioners of said county, hereafter to be elected, for the sum
of A5,000, to be applied in erecting public buildings for said county,
and that the citizens of Canfield shall also donate a suitable lot of
ground on which to erect public buildings."

To secure the permanent establishment of the county seat
at Canfield, numerous citizens of that town, - some of whom
are plaintiffs in this suit, - in compliance with the provisions
of said sect. 8, duly executed their bond for $5,000, which was
accepted by the county commissioners. A suitable lot of ground
on which to erect the county buildings was also, by their procurement, conveyed to the county.
Thereupon said citizens erected on the lot a commodious
co3.rt-house suitable for the transaction of the public business of the county, at a cost of more than $10,000, which, on
June 29, 1848, the commissioners accepted in behalf of the

NEWTON

V. ('.OMMISSIONERS.

(Sup. Ct.

county, in full satisfaction of the bond, and as a full compliance with said sect. 8 ; and thenceforward the. court-house was
used as a seat of justice, and Canfield continued to be the
county seat of the county.
April 9, 1874, the General Assembly of the State of Ohio
passed the following act: "An Act to provide for the removal of the seat of justice of Mahoning County from the town of Canfield to the city of
Youngstown in said county.
"SECT. 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of
Ohio, that from and after taking effect of this section of this act as
hereafter provided, the seat of justice in the county of Mahoning
shall be removed from the town of Canfield, and shall be fixed,
until otherwise provided by law, at the city of Youngstown, in said
county.
"SECT. 2. That the foregoing section of this act shall take effect
and be in force when and so soon as the same shall be adopted by
a majority of all the electors of said Mahoning County, voting at
the next general election after the passage thereof, and when suita
ble buildings shall have been erected, as hereinafter provided.
"SECT. 3.That the electors of said Mahoning County, at the
next general election after the passage of this act, shall indorse
or otherwise place on their tickets either the words ' for removal '
or ' against removal;' and if a majority of all the electors of said
Maiahoning County, voting at said election, shall vote for removal.
the first section of this act shall thereafter be considered and holden
to be adopted by such majority: Provided, that all tickets upon
which the words ' for removal' shall not be indorsed or otherwise
placed shall be taken and considered as votes 'against removal'
as fully as though the words ' against removal ' were indorsed or
otherwise placed thereon.
"SECT. 4. That judges and clerks of election in the several townships, wards, and voting precincts in said county at the said general
election shall cause all votes that may be so given for or against
removal to be correctly counted, in doing which, all tickets upon
which the words 'for removal' are not indorsed or otherwise
placed shall be counted as votes 'against removal,' and shall
enter and certify in their respective poll-books of said general
election the number of votes so counted for as well as against
such removal, which poll-books shall be returned and opened as
required by the act regulating said general election and the open-

Oct. 1879.]

NEWTON V. COMMSSIONERS.

ing of the returns thereof; and the officers opening the same shall,
at the same time they make, certify, and sign the abstracts required by law, also make, certify, and sign a separate abstract of
all votes so returned for or against removal, showing the number
so gi-en in each township, and the footings or aggregate number
given in all the townships, which abstract shall be forthwith deposited in the clerk's office of said county, and be by him forthwith
recorded in the journal of the Court of Common Pleas of said
county, which record, or a duly certified copy thereo4 shall be
t aken and received as evidence for all purposes as the result of
said election.
"SECr. 5. That in case a majority of the electors of said county
of Mahoning shall vote ' for removal,' as heretofore provided, the
seat of justice and county seat shall be deemed and taken to be
removed from Canfield in said county to the city of Youngstown
in said county, and to be located at said city of Youngstown: Prooided, howeve.r, that nothing in the act shall be so construed as to
authorize the removal of said seat of justice to the city of Youngstown, until the citizens of the city and township of Youngstown,
and of sufficient size and suitably located to accommodate the
court-house, jail, and necessary offices for said county, and shall
have erected thereon, or shall have caused to have erected thereon,
and completed thereon, suitable buildings for court-house, jail, and
all offices and rooms necessary for the transaction of all the public
business of said county, at a cost for said buildings of not less than
$100,000, and to the satisfaction and acceptance of the commissioners of said county, and all such buildings shall be fully completed
within two years from the date of the election at which this act
shall be ratified, and said commissioner shall not, nor shall any
other authority of said county, levy any tax on the taxable property of said county for said land or building: Provided,that the
citizens of Youngstown may, within said two years, build said
public building", and tender the same to said county commissioners.
"SECT. 6. It shall be the duty of the sheriff or coroner, as the case
may be, to cause proclamation to be made to the qualified electors
of said county of the time of holding said election, iii the same manner as by law he is required to do in other elections, notifying said
electors to vote as aforesaid on the question by which this act is
submitted to them.
"S.ncr. 7. The sections of this act subsequent to.the first section
shall take effect and be in force from and after their passage."

NEWTON V. C0IIMISSIONERS.

(Sup. Ct.

At the next general election a majority of votes cast in the
county was in favor of the removal.
Thereupon Newton, and a number of other citizens of the
town of Canfield, filed their petition in the Court of Common
Pleas for Mahoning County praying for an injunction restraining the board of county commissioners from removing the
county seat to Youngstown. The court denied the injunction
and dismissed the petition. That decision having been affirmed
by the Supreme Court of the State, the petitioners brought the
case here.
111r. James A. Garfield for the plaintiffs in error.
The question for the determination of the court in this case
is whether the act of the General Assembly of Ohio of Feb. 16,
1846, worked a contract for the permanent location .of the
county seat at Canfield. Ohio Life Isurance and Trust Co.
v. .Debolt, 16 How. 416. The rule that legislative grants and
contracts are to be construed most favorably to the State does
not tolerate the defeating of the grant or contract by any hypercritical construction. The Binghampton Bridge, 3 Wall. 51.
LaNirs which amount to a proposition on the part of the State
when accepted by individuals, binding contracts.
-become,
Cooley, Const. Lim. 284; Woodruff v. Trapnall,10 How. 190;
State Bank of Ohio v. Xnoop, 16 id. 869; Furman v. .Nichol,
8 Wall. 44; ew Jersey v. Yard, 95 U. S. 104.
The strength of the case of the plaintiffs in error lies in the
fact that it is an exception to the general policy of the State in
relation to the location of county seats, - a privilege, franchise,
or property secured to them by a positive stipulation for a
specified consideration paid to and appropriated by the State
for the public benefit. Such, then, being the nature of the
contract, - there being in 1846 no limitation on the power
of the legislature to. make it except what is claimed to be implied as necessary to the preservation of the government, - it
cannot be excluded from the protection afforded by the Constitution of the United States to other contracts made by a State
with its citizen . -Dartmouth College v. Woodward, 4 Wheat.
518; Farrington v. Tennessee, 95 U. S. 679; New Jersey v.
Yard, supra.
That the eighth section of the act, when complied with by

Oct. 1879.]

NEWTON V. COMIISSIONERS.

the citizens of Canfield, constituted a contract between them
and the State for the permanent location or establishment of
the county seat at that place, is beyond controversy. The
contract arises out of the very words of the enactment, and
the inducement held out to the citizens was to make the location permanent, upon the performance by them of the specified
conditions. Nhew Jersey v. Yard, supra.
Permanency both in the consideration and in the location
of the county seat was contemplated and stipulated for by the
parties. Commissioners of Lucas County v. Bunt, 5 Ohio St.
496.
The power of the legislature to make the contracton behalf
Ohio Life Insurance and
of the State cannot be denied.
Trust Co. v. Debolt, supra; Slaughter-HYouse Cases, 16 Wall.
36 ; Matheny v. Golden, 5 Ohio St. 361; State Bank of Ohio
v. .Knoop, supra.
The case of East H1artford v. Jfar~ford Bridge Company (10
How. 511), relied on by the defendants in error, has no application here. There the question turned on the public character
of the parties to the grant.
Mr. Thomas T.'Sanderson for the defendants in error.
I. If the act of February, 1846, under which the plaintiffs
assert their right, did in terms amount to or express a contract
or a grant, as they claim, then to that extent it was unconstitutional and void under the Constitution of the State of Ohio
in force at the time of its enactment. Constitution of Ohio
of 1802, art. 7, sect. 3.
1. The Supreme Court of Ohio recognize the right to remove
county seats as one conferred by the Constitution of the State.
State v. Choate, 11 Ohio, 512; Commissioners of Putnam County
v. Auditor, sc., 1 Ohio St. 324; Ohio, ex rel. Evans, v. Dudley,
id. 445.
2. The legislature of Ohio claimed the same constitutional
right and power, and continuously exercised it from the organization of the State during the existence of the Constitution of
1802. 9 Ohio Local Laws, 10; 3 Chase, Stats. 2101; 22 Ohio
Local Laws, 44; 16 id. 93; 31 id. 199.
3. The construction of the Supreme Court and of the General Assembly of the State, as to the existence and cope of

NEWTON V. COMMISSIONERS.

[Sup. Ct.

the power of removing seats of justice, will not be reviewed
here. Pennsylvania college Cases, 13 Wall. 190; Bail'oad
Company v. Georgia, 98 U. S. 359.
4. The General Assembly, in enacting a mere local law,
could not, by any contract or grant created thereby or arising
therefrom, abrogate or repeal the constitutional power to remove seats of justice.
5. That power, existing at the time of the passage of the act
of 1846, entered into and became a part of any contract or
grant intended to arise from the act; and all parties were
bound thereby. Beer Company v. 11assachusetts, 97 U. S. 25;
Peek v. lfeddell, 17 Ohio St. 275.
6. The cases decided in the Supreme Court of Ohio, and in
this court, known as the "Tax Cases," do not conflict with the
foregoing. Matheny v. Golden, 5 Ohio St. 361; State Bank of
Ohio v. Knoop, 16 How. 869; 'Gorden v. The Appeal Tax
Court, 3 id. 133; Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Co. v. Debolt,
16 id. 416; New Jersey v. Yard, 95 U. S. 104; Farringtonv.
Tennessee, id. 679. In all these cases, the exemptions or partial exemptions from taxation were, by statutes, uniformly held
to be valid and authorized by the State Constitutions; whereas,
in the case at bar, it is claimed that whatever characteristic of
immovability was attempted to be impressed upon the county
seat at Canfield was unconstitutional.
7. The constitutional power of removal was wholly inconsistent with that of rendering a county seat immovable.
The two repugnant powers could not exist in the same constitution.
II. The creation, maintenance, and regulation of courts, including the times and places of holding them, their removal
from one place to another, to answer the public convenience
or necessities, are matters connected with the police pow er
of the State; and she cannot divest herself of the right, at
any time, to exercise such power.
1. What is the extent and scope of the police power of the
State? Beer Company v. Massachusetts, supra,and cases there
cited; Fertilizing Company v. Hyde Park, 97 U. S. 659.
2. Courts, and the power to establish and locate them, are
necessary adjuncts to an unrestricted exercise of the police

Oct. 1879.]

NEWTON V. COMMISSIONERS.

power of the State, and the power to create and maintain
implies the power to remove them. The same may be said
of jails and other prisons.
3. If in the exercise of this power valuable rights or franchises which have- been conferred by valid enactment are
destroyed or divested, no compensation can be claimed. Sedgwick, Stat. and Const. Law, 533, 534; 2 Dillon, Mun. Corp.,
sects. 93, 455; Boyd v. Alabama, 94 U. S. 645.
III. The word "permanently," as used in the eighth section
of the act of Feb. 16, 1846, had, at the time of the passage of
the act, a well-defined legislative signification.
1. It had been used to denote the manner of the location of
more than thirty-five county seats in the State before that
time. 3 Chase, Stats. 2100-2146.
2. Many of the seats of justice thus permanently located, by
special acts of the General Assembly, were subsequently removed by similar special enactments. 63 Ohio Laws, 58;. 58
id. 10; 5 Ohio St. 490.
IV. Was any contract or grant made or intended by the
legislature of 1846, by the terms of the enactment in question ?
1. The rule of construction to be adopted in order to construe the act is stated in C'arles River Bridge v. Warren
Bridge, 11 Pet. 420; Jefferson Branch Bank v. Skelly, -1 Black,
446; Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Co. v. Debolt, 16 How. 416;
Te Bingampton Bridge, 3 Wall. 51; FertilizingCompany v.
Zlyde Park, 97 U. S. 659.
2. The intent of the General Assembly was to do, by the
act of Feb. 16, 1846, the same thing as would have been done
under the General Statutes, by commissioners. 1 Chase, Stats.
853; 2 id. 1080; 2 Swan & Critch. Stats. of Ohio.
.r The defendant further claims that no contract or grant
was created by the act of 1846, for the reason that there were
no persons, party, or parties, that could legally accept a grant,
or become a party or parties to a contract of the kind asserted.
Jackson, ex dem. Cooper, v. Cory, 8 Johns. 385.
VI. What is a county? C. W. & Z. B. B. Co. v. Commis8loners, 6.c., 1 Ohio St. 7T; Commissioners of Hamilton County
v. Mighels, 7 id. 109; Runter et al. v. Commissioners, Ifc.,

NEWTON V. COMMISSIONERS.

[Sup. Ct.

10 id. 515; Boalt et al. v. Commissioners, &c., 18 Ohio, 16;
Granger v. Pulaski, &c., 26 Ark. 37; JlIcKim v. Odom,
3 Blandf. 407; St. Louis v. Allen, 13 Mo. 400; Maryland v.
B. & 0. B. B. 0o., 3 How. 534; Laramie Cotty v. Albany
County et al., 92 U. S. 307.
VII. The contract or grant claimed by plaintiffs is not within
the protection of sect. 10 of art. I of the Constitution of the
United States. Dartmouth College Case, 4 Wheat. 518; .East
Hartford v. Hartford Bridge Co., 10 How. 511; Charles River
Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 11 Pet. 547, 548; Butler v. Pennsylvania, 10 How. 416; Trustees, e. v. Bider, 13 Conn. 87;
The People v. Roper, 35 N. Y. 629; Billings v. Hall, 7 Cal. 1;
.Dingman v. People, 51 Ill. 277; Armstrong v. Commissioners,
&c.,4 Blackf. (Ind.) 208; Alley v. Denson, 8 Tex. 297; Adams
v. Logan, 11 Ill. 336; Harris v. Shaw, 13 id. 456; Hambrick/
v. House, 17 Ga. 56; Muses v. Kearney, 31 Ark. 261; Pladelphia v. Fox, 64 Penn. 180; Story, Com. Const., sects. 1392,
1393; Cooley, Congt. Lim. 101, 203; Twiford v. Alamakee
County, 4 Greene (Iowa), 60; Terrett v. Taylor, 9 Cranch,
51; Attorney- General v. Supervisors, &a., 33 Mlich. 289.
MR. JUSTICE SwAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
It is claimed in behalf of the plaintiffs in error that the act
of the 16th of February, 1846, and what was done under it,
constituted an executed contract which is binding on the
State ; and that the act of April 9, 1874, and the steps taken
pursuant to its provisions, impair the obligation of that contract, and bring the case within the contract clause of the
Constitution of the United States. Art. 1, sect. 10.
These allegations are the ground of our jurisdiction. They
present the only question argued before us, and our remarks
will be confined to that subject.
The case may be properly considered under two aspects: Was it competent for the State to enter into such a contract
as is claimed to have been made?
And if such a contract were made, what is its meaning and
effect ?
Undoubtedly, there are cases in which a State may, as it
were, lay aside its sovereignty and contract like an individ-

Oct. 1879.]

NEWTON V. COMMISSIONERS.

ual, and be bound accordingly. Curranv. State of Arkansas,
15 How. 304; -Davisv. Gray, 16 Wall. 203.
The cases in which such contracts have been sustained and
enforced are very numerous. Many of them are cases in which
the question was presented whether a private act of incorporation, or one or more of its clauses, is a contract within the meaning of the Constitution of the United States. There is no such
restraint upon the British Parliament. Hence the adjudications
of that country throw but little light upon the subject.
The Dartmouth College Case was the pioneer in this field of
our jurisprudence.
The principle there laid down, and since maintained in the
cases which have followed and been controlled by it, has no
application where the statute in question is a public law relating to a publie subject within the domain of the general legislative power of the State, and involving the public rights' ahd
publie welfare of the entire community affected by it. The
two classes of cases are separated by a broad line of demarcation. The distinction was forced upon the attention of the
court by the argument in the Dartmouth College Case. Mr.
Chief Justice Marshall said:"That anterior to the formation of the Constitution, a course
of legislation had prevailed in many, if not in all, of the States,
which weakened the confidence of man in man, and embarrassed all transactions between individuals, by dispensing with
-a faithful performance of engagements. To correct this mischief by restraining the power which produced it, the State
legislatures were forbidden 'to pass any law impairing the
obligation of contracts;' that is, of contracts respecting property, under which some individual could claim a right to something beneficial to himself; and that since the clause in the
Constitution must, in construction, receive some limitation, it
may be confined, and ought to be confined, to cases of this
description, -to cases within the mischief it was intended to
remedy.
"The general correctness of these observations cannot be
controverted. That the framers of the Constitution did not
intend to restrain the States in the regulation of their civil
institutions, adopted for internal government, and that the

NEWTON V. COMMISSIONERS.

[Sup. Ct.

instrument they have given us is not to be so construed, may

be admitted.

The provision of the Constitution never has

been understood to embrace other contracts than those which
respect property, or some object of value, and confer rights
which may be asserted in a court of justice. It never has
been understood to restrict thegeneral right of the legislature
to legislate on the subject of divorces. . . . If the act of incorporation be a grant of political pqwer, if it create a civil
institution to be employed in the administration of the government, or if the funds of the college be public property, or if
the State of New Hampshire, as a government, be alone interested in its transacti6ns, the subject is one in which the
legislature of the State may act according to its own judgment,
unrestrained by any limitation of" its power imposed by the
Constitution of the United States."
The judgment of the court in that case proceeded upon the
ground that the college was "a private eleemosynary institution, endowed with a capacity to take property for purposes
,anconnectedwith the government, whose funds are bestowed by
individuals on the faith of the charter."
In the later case of -East Rartford v. The Hartford Bridge
Company (10 How. 511), this court further said: "But it is not
found necessary for us to decide finally on this first and most
doubtful question, as our opinion is clearly in favor of the
defendant in error on the other question; namely, that the
parties to this grant did not by their charter stand in the attitude towards each other of making a contract by it, such as is
contemplated in the Constitation, and so could not be modified
by subsequent legislation. The legislature was acting here on
the one part, and public municipal corporations on the other.
They were acting, too, in relation to a public ojeet, being virtually a highway across the river, over another highway up
and down the river. From this standing and relation of these
parties, and from the subject-matter of their action, we think
that the doings of the legislature as to this ferry must be considered rather as public laibs than as contracts. They related to
public interests. They changed as those interests demanded.
The grantees likewise, the towns being mere organizations for
public pwrposes, were liable to have their public powers, rights,

Oct. 1879.]

NEW TON V. CO=M£SSIONERS.

and duties modified or abolished at any moment by the legislature ...
"It is hardly possible to conceive the grounds on" which a
different result could be vindicated, without destroying all
legislative sovereignty, and checking most legislative improvements and amendments, as well as su2ervision over its subordinate public bodies."
Th. legislative power of a State, except so far as restrained
by its own constitution, is at all times absolute with respect
to all offices within its reach. It may at pleasure create or
abolish them, or modify their duties. It may also shorten or
lengthen the term of service. And it may increase or diminish
tie salary or change the mode of compensation. Butler et al.
v. Pennsylvania, 10 How. 402.
The police power of the States, and that with respect to
municipal corporations, and to many other things that might
be named, are of the same absolute character. Cooley, Const.
Lim., pp. 232, 342; The Regents v. Williams, 4 Gill & J.
(11d.) 321.
In all these cases, there can be no contract and no irrepealable law, because they are "governmental subjects," and hence
w; hin the category before stated.
They involve public interests, and legislative acts concerning
ti'em are necessarily public, laws. Every succeeding legislature
possesses the same jurisdiction and power with respect to them
as its predecessors. The latter have the same power of repeal
and modification which the former had of enactment, neither
more nor less. All occupy, in this respect, a footing of perfect
equality. This must necessarily be so in the nature of things.
It is vital to the public welfare that each one should be able
at all times to do whatever the varying circumstances and present exigencies touching the subject involved may require. A
different result would be fraught with evil.
All these considerations apply with full force to the times
and places of holding courts. They are both purely public
things, and the laws concerhing them must necessarily be of
the same character.
If one-may be bargained about, so may the other. 'In this
respect there is no difference in principle between them.

NEWTON V. COMMIISSIONERS.

[Sup. Ct.

The same reasoning, pushed a step farther in the same direction, would involve the same result with respect to the seat of
government of a State.
If a State capital were sought to be removed under the circumstances of this case with respect to the county seat, whatever the public exigencies, or the force of the public sentiment
which demanded it,those interested, as are the plaintiffs in
error, might, according to their argument, effectually forbid
and prevent it; and this result could be brought about by
means of a bill inequity and a perpetual injunction.
It is true a State cannot be sued without its consent, but
this would be a small obstacle in the way of the assertion of so
potent a right. Though the State cannot be sued, its officers,
whose acts were illegal and void, may be. Osborn v. Bank of
the United States, 9 Wheat. 738; Davis v. Gray, 16 Wall. 203.
A proposition leading to such consequences must be unsound.
The parent and the offspring are alike. Armstrong v. .The Ommissioners (4 Blackf. (Ind.) 208) was, in some of its features,
not unlike the case before us. The act declared that "so soon
as the public buildings are completed in the manner aforesaid,
at the place designated, the same shall be for ever thereafter the
permanent seat of justice of said county of Dearborn." Certain private individuals there, as here, had stipulated to build
a court-house, and their compliance was a condition precedent.
The condition had been performed. It was held that "the act
did not create a contract." The subject was fully considered.
It was held further, that a subsequent legislature might competently pass an act for the removal of the county seat so established. In that case, both had been done and both were
sustained. The reasoning of the court was substantially the
same with ours touching the eighth section of the act of 1846
here in question. Bbvell and Others v. Tucker (1 id. 285) was
also a case arising out of the removal of a county seat. The
court said, "the establishment of the time and place of holding
courts is a matter of general legislation, respecting which the
act of one session of the General Assembly cannot be binding
on another."
See also Adams v. The County of Logan, 11
Ill. 336, and Bass v. _anthroy, 11 Tex. 698. They are to the
same effect.

Oct. 1879.]

NEWTON V. OOMiISSIOI4ERS.

Secondly, But conceding, for the purposes of this opinion,
that there is here a contract, as claimed by'the plaintiffs in
error, then the question arises, What is the contract; or, in
other words, to what does it bind the State?
The rules of interpretation touching such contracts are well
settled in this court. In Tucker v. Ferguson (22 Wall. 527)
we said: "But the contract must be shown to exist. There is
no presumption in its favor. Every reasonalle doubt should
be resolved against it. Where it exists, it is to be rigidly
scrutinized, and never permitted to extend either in scope or
duration beyond what the terms of the concession clearly
require." There must have been a deliberate intention clearly
manifested on the part of the State to grant what is claimed.
Such a purpose cannot be inferred from equivocal language.
Providence Bank v. Billings, 4 Pet. 514; Gilman v. City of
Sheboygan, 2 Black, 510.
It must not be a mere gratuity. There must be a sufficient
consideration, or, no matter how long the alleged right has
been enjoyed, it may be resumed by the State at its pleasure.
Christ 0hurch v. Philadelphia, 24 How. 800. No grant can
be raised by mere inference or presumption, and the right
Charles River Bridge v.
granted must be clearly defined.
Warren Bridge, 11 Pet. 420.
"The rule of construction in this class of cases is that it
shall be most strongly against the corporation. Every reasonable doubt is to be resolved adversely. Nothing is to be taken
as conceded but what is given in unmistakable terms or by an
implication equally clear. The affirmative must be shown.
Silence is negation, and doubt is fatal to the claim. This doctrine is vital to the public welfare. It is axiomatic in the
jurisprudence of this court." Fertilizing Company v. fflde
Park, 97 U. S. 659.
The eighth section of the act of 1846 declares, "That before
the seat of justice shall be considered permanently established
at the town of Canfield, the proprietors or citizens thereof
shall" do certain things, -all of which, it is admitted, were done
in due time. This is the whole case of the plaintiffs in error.
It will be observed that there is nothing said about the county
seat remaining, or being kept, at Canfield for ever, or for any
VOL. x.

36

NEWTON V. COMMISSIONERS.

[S4up.

Ct.

specified time, or "permanently."
At most, the stipulation is
that it shall be considered as permanently established there
when the conditions specified are fulfilled. If the legislature
had intended to assume an obligation that it should be kept
there in perpetuity, it is to be presumed it would have said so.
We cannot - certainly not in this case - interpolate into the
statute a thing so important, which it does not contain. The
most that can be claimed to have been intended by the State
is, that when the conditions prescribed were complied with,
the county seat should be then and thereupon "permanently
established" at the designated place. We are, therefore, to
consider what is the meaning of the phrase "permanently
established." Domicile is acquired by residence and the animus manendi, the intent to remain. A permanent residence is
acquired in the same way. In neither case is the idea involved
that a change of domicile or of residence may not thereafter
be made. But this in no wise affects the pre-existing legal
status of the individual in either case while it continues. So
the county seat was permanently established at Canfield when
it was placed there with the intention that it should remain
there. This fact, thus complete, was in no wise affected by
the further fact that thirty years later the State changed its
mind and determined to remove, and did remove, the same
county seat to another locality. It fulfilled at the outset the
entire obligation it had assumed. It did not stipulate to kerp
the county seat at Canfield perpetually, and the plaintiffs in
error have no right to complain that it was not done. Keeping
it there is another and a distinct thing, in regard to which the
eighth section of the act is wholly silent. In illead v. Ballard
(7 Wall. 290), land was conveyed on the 9th of August, 1848,
"upon the express understanding and condition" that a certain
institution of learning then incorporated "shall be permanently located on said land," between the date of the deed and
the same day in the succeeding year. The trustees passed a
resolution, within the year, locating the institution on the
premises, and at once contracted for the erection of the necessary buildings. The buildings were completed, and the institution was in full operation by November, 1849.
In the year 1857 the buildings were destroyed by fire and

Oct. 1879.]

NEWTON V. COMUSSIONERS.

were not rebuilt. A part of the land was sold by the grantee.
The heir of the grantor sued in ejectment to recover the premises. This court, speaking by Mr. Justice Miller, said: "It is
clear to us . . . that when the trustees passed their resolution locating the buildings on the land, with the intention that
it should be the permanent place of conducting the business of
the corporation, they had permanently located the institution,
within the true construction of the contract. Counsel for the
plaintiff attach to the word 'permanent' a meaning inconsistent with the obvious intent of the parties, -that the condition
was one which might be fully performed within a year. Such
a construction is something more than a condition to locate. It
is a covenant to buil~l and rebuild; a covenant against removal
at any time; a covenant to keep up an institution of learning
on that land for ever, or for a very indefinite time. This could
not have been the intention of the parties."
In Harrisv. Sliaw (13 Ill. 463), land was conveyed on condition that the county seat should be "permanently located"
upon it. The location was made accordingly with that intent,
but some years later- the county seat was removed. The
grantor sued to recover the land. The court said it was no
part of the contract that the county seat should remainfor ever
on the premises; that the grantor must be presumed to have
known that the legislature had the power to remove it at pleasure, and that he must be held to have had in view at least
the probability of such a change when he made the deed.
There is no point arising under either the former or the
present Constitution of Ohio which in our judgment requires
any remark.
The results of the elaborate research of one of the counsel
for the defendants in error show that the phrase "permanently
established" is a foilaula in long and frequent use in Ohio,
with respect to county seats established otherwise than temporarily. Yet it is believed this is the first instance in the juridical
history of the State in which such a claim as is here made has
been set up.
This practical interpretation of the meaning of the phrase,
though by no means conclusive, is entitled to grave and respectful consideration.
Judgment affirmed.

