Oct. 1879.]

CLARK v. TRUST Co.

CLARK v. TRUST CompAiNy.
1. If duly advertised, and fairly and properly conducted, a trustee's public sale
of lands to a corporation which was the payee of the note secured by the
deed of trust will not be set aside merely upon the ground that they brought

a grossly inadequate price, and that he then and at the date of the deed was
the actuary of the corporation, if the deed was made to him as an individual,
and he, as such, and not in his official capacity, accepted and executed the

trust thereby conferred.
2. Where a trustee's sale is valid, the title passing thereunder should be con
veyed to the purchaser by a deed properly made and acknowledged.

from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The cause was argued by 31r. Saamuel Shellabargerand Mr.
J. D. Bigeloz for the appellant, and by 31r. Enoch Totten for
the appellee.
APPEAL

M . JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
The preliminary question in this case involves the validity
and effect of the sale made at public auction by Eaton, or rather
by the auctioneer under his directions and as his agent.
McGhan and wife, by indenture dated Aug. 15, 1864, and
duly acknowledged on 18th November, 1864, conveyed the
premises in controversy to Edward Clark, in trust for the sole
use and benefit of Mrs. MeGhan, for and during her natural
life, permitting her to use and occupy the same, and to receive
and apply the rents and profits thereof, and in trust also to sell
and convey absolutely in fee-simple or by way of mortgage, to
such person or persons and for such use and purposes as Mrs.
MeGhan should in writing request and direct, her then or
any future coverture notwithstanding. The indenture also contained a provision that, upon the death of Mrs. McGhan, the
premises, or so much thereof as remained undisposed of, should
be conveyed to the husband, his heirs or assigns.
By an indenture executed and duly acknowledged on 20th
June, 1870, McGhan and his wife, together with Clark, the
trustee, conveyed the property to Daniel Eaton, of the city
of Washington, in trust to secure the payment of a debt due
from McGhan and wife to the Freedman's Savings and Trust

CLARK V. TRUST CO.

[Sup. Ct.

Company, for the sum of $10,000, evidenced by their joint and
several promissory note to that company, of like date with the
indenture, and payable twelve months thereafter to the order
of the company, with interest at the rate of ten per cent per
annum, interest payable half-yearly. That conveyance was in
part upon these trusts: 1. To permit Mrs. McGhan and husband to occupy the premises, and the rents and profits to have
and apply to their sole use and benefit, until default be made
in the payment of the note or interest thereon, or any proper
charge or expense in and about the property; and, upon payment of the note, interest, and costs, to release and reconvey the
premises to Clark, the trustee, for Mrs. McGhan; 2. Upon default in any of the said respects (quoting from the deed itself),
"to sell the said piece or parcel of ground and premises at public auction upon such terms and conditions, and at such time and
place, and after such previous public advertisement, as the said
party of the second part or his heirs in the execution of this
trust, shall deem advantageous and proper, and to convey the
same in fee-simple to the purchaser or purchasers thereof at his,
her, or their cost or expense; and of the proceeds of said saie or
sales first to pay all proper costs, charges, and expenses, and to
retain as compensation a commission of five per cent out of the
amount of said sale or sales; secondly, to pay whatever may then
remain unpaid of said note and the interest thereon, whether
the same shall be due or not; and, lastly, to pay the remainder,
if any, to the said Louisa McGhan, her heirs or assigns."
On or about April 5, 1872, the note held by the company
being unpaid, and interest to the amount of $1,400 having accrued thereon, Eaton, the trustee, made public advertisement
that he would sell the mortgaged property at public auction to
the highest bidder, at a designated hour, on April 24, 1872,
giving the terms of such proposed sale. The sale was postponed from time to time until July 1, 1872, when it took place,
the Freedman's Savings and Trust Company, by one of its
officers, becoming the purchaser at the price of $13,000.
We find in the record a writing signed by Eaton, purporting
to be an indenture executed July 1, 1872, whereby, in consideration of the sum of $13,000 in hand paid, he conveyed to the
purchaser the property so sold at public auction.

Oct. 1879.]

CLARK v. TRusT Co.

It purports to have been" "signed, sealed, and delivered in
presence of - Brainerd H. Warner," and to have been acknowledged before said Warner as a notary public for the District of
Columbia. As printed in the transcript, that writing shows no
seal attached to the signature of Eaton, and the certificate of
acknowledgment before the notary is without date. That writing was placed upon record on the 4th of February, 1878; but,
for the kvant of a seal to Eaton's signature, complainants claim
that it was ineffective for any purpose. Subsequently to that
sale, the Freedman's Savings and Trust Company commenced
proceedings in ejeetment against McGhan and wife and Clark,
to recover possession of the property. The defendants in that
action failing to appear, judgment by default was entered
against them on Nov. 7, 1872, and, under a writ of possession,
MeGhan and wife were ejected and the company put in possession of the property.
In -1873, Bradley purchased the same property from the
conpany, and subsequently sold and conveyed it to Shepherd.
Eaton died on the 16th of February, 1873, and MeGhan died
on Oct. 27, 1874.
In this action, commenced April 5, 1875, by Mrs. McGhan,
and by Clark, as trustee in the deed already referred to, it is
sought to redeem the property sold by Eaton under the deed of
June 20, 1872. To that end the complainants, among other
things, prayed that the deed from Eaton to the Freedman's
Savings and Trust Company, and the subsequent conveyance
under which Bradley and Shepherd (who are -alleged not to
have been bona fide purchasers) claim, be declared null and
void, and the notes given by Bradley to that company be cancelled; that an accounting be had of the rents, issues, and
profits of the premises, and that the amount thereof be applied
on account of the said note of $10,000; and that the lease of
the premises may be decreed to inure to the benefit of the
complainants.
The court below having dismissed the bill, this appeal has
been prosecuted, and the assignments of error present several
propositions of law for our consideration. But, in the view we
tahe of the case, it is only necessary to determine the preliminary question already stated, in reference to the validity und

CLARK v. TRUST CO.

[Sup. Ct.

effect of the sale at public aucti6n by Eaton, the trustee, on
the 1st of July, 1872.
That sale is attempted to be impeached upon several grounds,
viz. :1. That a proper opportunity was not afforded to persons
desirous to purchase the property to bid at the sale; that, had
there been, the property would have brought at least $2,000
more.
Upon a careful examination of all the evidence, we find
nothing of a positive, substantial character sustaining this position. While-there is some little conflict in the evidence as to
what occurred upon the occasion of the sale, the overwhelming
preponderance of testimony shows that the sale was duly advertised, and was fairly and properly eonducted.
2. It is next contended that relief should be given because
the price which the property brought was grossly inadequate.
That fact alone does not constitute a sufficient reason to impeach the genuineness or validity of the sale. Besides, the
inadequacy was not such as to shock the conscience, or raise a
presumption of fraud or unfairness. Hill, Trustees, 152, note;
Lessee of (Cooperv. Galbraith,3 Wash. C. C. 546; Hfubbard v.
Jarrell,23 Md. 66.
3. The sale is assailed upon the further ground that Eaton,
at the date of the deed to him, as well as when the sale was
made, was the actuary of the Freedman's Savings and Trust
Company, and that consequently no sale made by him, under
the authority conferred by the deed of June 20, 1870, would
cut off the equity of redemption.
Touching this objection, it is sufficient to say that the deed
was not made to Eaton in his capacity as an officer of the company, nor did he act in that capacity when exerting the authority conferred upon him. The fact that he held official relations
to that company did not incapacitate him from accepting the
trust set out in the deed of June 22, 1870, or discharging the
duties thereby imposed. It is true that his relations to the company would make it the duty of the court to scrutinize very
closely all that he did in the execution of the trust; but we
find nothing in the evidence to justify the belief that he acted
otherwise than honestly and faithfully in the discharge of his

Oct. 1879.]

IINCKLEY v. RAILROAD CO.

duty. The evidence does not justify the charge that he bid off
the property for the company.
'""bat we have said leads to the conclusion that the sale
of July 1, 1872, was a valid sale, which the purchaser was
entitled to have consummated by a conveyance executed and
acknowledged in proper form. It is, therefore, of no consequence in this suit to inquire whether the writing executed
by Eaton to the company, in pursuance of the sale made at
public auction, was or was not sufficient to pass the title from
him.
If he was bound, as we hold that he was, to have executed a
sufficient conveyance, the court should not, by granting the relief asked, defeat the sale altogether. An ineffectual attempt,
upon the part of Eaton, to consummate the sale does not authorize a decree setting aside the sale, which, as we have said,
-was in conformity to the deed, and was free from fraud or
imposition, or such inadequacy of price as, upon recognized
principles of equity, constitutes ground for relief.
'Decree affirmed.

IIINOcLEY v. RAILROAD Co]rPANY.
A receiver appointed by a State court in a suit which, under the act of March 3,
1875 (18 Stat. part :3, 470), was subsequently removed to the Circuit Court of
the United States, reported to the latter, stating the amount of the fund in his
hands, and asking for an order to pay therefrom certain liabilities. Held, that
the Circuit Court had authority to require him to account for the fund, and
that he is chargeable with interest on so much thereof as he on receiving
deposited in a bank to his credit as receiver, and then withdrew and deposited
on his private account in another bank, he declining to explain the transaction,
when he was examined as a witness by the master to whom the court had
referred his accounts.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mlir. C. W. Ktretzinger for the appellant.
Mr. B. Biddle Roberts for the appellee.

