Oct. 1879.]

GARNEiU v. DOZIER.

GA&RE.u v. DOZIER.
For the purposes of an appeal to, or a writ of error from, this court, the fran
script of the record is sufficiently authenticated, if it be sealed with the seal
of the court below, and signed by the deputy clerk thereof in the name of and
for his principal.

to dismiss an appeal from the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Missouri.
This is an appeal taken by Garnean from a decree rendered
in favor of the defendants below, partners doing business under
the firm name of Dozier, Weyl, & Co. The authentication of
MoT.IoN

the transcript of the record filed here is as follows:
"UNITED STATES OF AmERICA,
EASTERI DISTRICT OF MISSOURI, 88.3

"I, M. M. Price, clerk of the Circuit Court of the United States
in and for the Eastern District of Missouri, do hereby certify the
writing hereto attached to be a true transcript of the record, proceedings, and exhibits in case No. 560 of Joseph F. Garneau,
plaintiff, against Dozier, Weyl, & Co., defendants, as fully as the
same remain on file and of record in said case in my office.
"In witness whereof I hereunto subscribe my name and affix
the seal of said court, at office in the city of St. Louis, in said district, this seventeenth day of July, in the year of our Lord eighteen.
hundred and seventy-seven.
[sEAT.]
"M. M. PIrcE,

",
Clerk of said Court.
"By T. L.

ChAWFORD,

" -Deputy."

Xr. Edward Boyd in support of the motion.
3_r. Robert H. Parkinson, contra.
MR. C

' JU TICE

WAITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Since the act of June 8, 1872 (17 Stat. 330), Rev. Stat. 558,

624, 678, authorizing the appointment of deputies of the clerks
of the courts of the United States, a transcript of the record is
sufficiently authenticated for the purposes of an appeal or a
writ of error to this court, if it is signed by the deputy in the

SOULE V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. (it.

name of and for the clerk of the court from which the appeal
comes, or to which the'writ of error is directed, and sealed
with the seal of that court. ThO transcript sent up in this
case comes within this rule.
Motion denied.

SOULB V. UIITED STATES.
Debt on the bond of a collector of interval revenue, bearing date Jan. 12, 1867.
Held, 1. That the audit of his accounts was the duty of the First Auditor.
2. That the settlement of them, as the same appears by the transcript from
the books of the Treasury Department, duly certified and authenticated, is
prima fade evidence of the balance thereby shown, and it is competent for the
accounting officer to correct mistakes and restate the balance. 3. That the
sureties are liable for the gauger's fees received by the collector. 4. Where
a bond given by the latter is objectionable in point of form, the direction
of the Commissione of Internal Revenue to execute a new one must be
considered as that of the Secretary of the Treasury, and the bond given in
complianc& therewith cannot be considered as having been extorted from the
collector and his sureties contrary to the statute.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of California.
This was an action by the United States on the bond executed by Soule as collector of internal revenue for the first
collection district of the Stat-e of California, and his suretis,
bearing date Jan. 12, 1867, and conditioned according to law.
There was a judgment in favor of the United States. The
defendbnts sued out this writ of error.
The assignment of errors and the facts are set forth in the
opinion of the court.
Mr. W W.
VMorrow for the plaintiffs in error.
The Solicitor-General for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD delivered

the opinion of the court.

Internal-revenue collectors are required, before entering upon
the duties of their office, to execute a bond for such amount as
shall be prescribed by the commissioner, under the direction of
the secretary, with not less than five suretids, conlitioned that

