Oct. 1879.]

PAVING CO. v. MULFORD.

"SECT. 4192. No bill of sale, mortgage, hypothecation, or conveyance of any vessel, or part of any vessel, of the United States, shall
be valid against any person other than the grantor or mortgagor,
his heirs and devisees, and persons having actual notice thereof,
unless such bill of sale, mortgage, hypothecation, or conveyance is
recorded in the office of the collector of customs where such vessel
is registered or enrolled ...
"SECT. 4193. .

.

. But no bill of sale, mortgage, hypothecation,

or conveyance or discharge of mortgage, or other incumbrance of
any vessel, shall be recorded, unless the same is duly acknowledged
before a notary public or other officer authorized to take acknowledgment of deeds."
To our minds, there is no doubt th'at Congress only intended
to require that a mortgage on a'vessel should be acknowledged
for the purpose of authenticating it for record, and that as
between the parties, and as against persons having actual notice
thereof, it was valid without acknowledgment or record. As
this was the decision of the court below, we deny the motion
to dismiss, and grant that made under Rule 6, to affirm.
.Decree affirmed.

PAVING COMPANY v. MULFORD.

A

bill filed in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia by A. against B.
and C., alleging that each held certificates of indebtedness belonging to him,
was, on final hearing, dismissed, and lie appealed. Held,that, as the recovery,
if any, must be against the defendants severally, and as the amount claimed
from each does not exceed $2,500, this court has no jurisdiction.

to dismiss an appeal from the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
3Mr. A. S. Worthington in support of the motion.
141r. William A. Cook, contra.
MOTION

MR.CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This was a suit in equity brought by the Ballard Paving
Company against Michael Mandle and sundry persons who

PAVING Co. v. MULFORD.

[Sup. Ct.

claimed to have purchased from him certain certificates of the
Auditor of the Board of Public Works of the District of
Columbia, which it was alleged were the property of the company. Mulford and Campbell, the appellees, were two of the
defendants, but they were proceeded against as holders of separate and distinct certificates. Their liability as set forth in
the bill was several only. There was no pretence of a joint
obligation, and it is conceded that in no event could there
be a recovery against either of them separately for more than
$2,500. On the hearing, the bill was dismissed as to these
defendants, and the paving company has appealed.
We think it clear that we have no jurisdiction in this case.
Although many defendants have been brought into the suit, the
proceeding is, in fact, against each of the several purchasers to
enforce his separate and distinct liability. It is a joinder of
distinct causes of action against distinct parties. The same
decree is to be entered against each as in case of separate
suits. The recovery, if any, must be against each defendant
separately for the amount he may personally be found accountable. Such being the case, the value of the matter in dispute
with each defendant must be the sum for which he is separately liable. It is well settled that neither co-defendants nor
co-complainants can unite their separate and distinct interests
for the purpose of making up the amount necessary to give us
jurisdiction on an appeal. , Seaver v. Bigelows, 5 Wall. 208;
Rich v. Lambert, 12 How. 347; Oliver v. Alexander, 6 Pet. 143;
Stratton v. Jarvis, 8 id. 41. In such cases, the appeal of each
separate defendant or complainant must stand or fall according
as his own interest in the controversy exceeds or falls short of
our jurisdictional amount. The same principle applies here.
For the purposes of an appeal, each separate controversy must
be treated as a separate suit. Under this appeal, two separate
controversies have been brought here, and in neither is the
amount involved sufficient to give us jurisdiction.
Appeal dismissed.

