JANUARY TERM 1832.

SAMUEL

A.

WORCESTER, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR v. THE STATE
OF GEORGIA.

A writ of error was I'sued to " the judges of the superior court for the county of
Gwinnect in the state of Georgia," commanding them to send to the supreme
court of the United States, the record and proceedings in the said superior
court of the county of Gwinnett, between the state of Georgia, plaintiff, and
Samuel A. Worcester, defendant, on an indictment in that court. The record
of the court of Gwinnett was ,etuined, certified by the clerk of the court, and
was also authenticated by the seal of the court. It was returned with, and annexed o, a writ of error issued in regolar form, the citation being signed by one
of the associate justices of the supreme court, and served on the governor and
attorney-general of the state more than thirty days before the commencement
of the term to which the writ of error was returnable.
By the court: The judicial act, so far as it prescribes the mode of proceeding,
appears to have been literally pursued. In February 1797, a rule was made on
this subject, in the following words: "it is ordered by tle court, that the clerk
of the court to which hny writ of error shall- be directed, may make return of
the same by transmitting a true copy of the record, and of all proceedings in
the same, under his hand and the seal of the court."
This has been done. But the signature of the judge has not been added to
that of the clerk. The law does not require it. The rule does net require it.
The plaintiff in error was indicted in the supreme court for the county of Gwin-'
nett in the state of Georgia, "for residing, on the 15th July 1831, in that part
of the Cherokee nation attached by the laws of the state of Geoigia to that
county, without a license or permit from the governor of the state, or from any
one auth',rised to grant it, and without having taken the oath to support and defend the constitution and laws df the state of Georgia, and uprightly to demean
himself as a citizen thereof, contrary to the laws of the said state." To this
indictment lie pleaded that he was, on the 15th July 1831, in the Cherokee
nation, out of the jurisdiction of the court of Gwinnett county; that he was a
citizen of Vermont, and entered the Cherokee nation as a missionary under
the authority of the president of the United States, and has not been required
by him to leave it, and that with the pennission and approval oftheCherokee
nation he was engaged in preaching the gospel: -that the state of Georgia
ought not to maintain the prosecution, as several treaties had been entered into
by the United States with the Cherokee nation, by which that nation was
acknowledged to be a sovereign nation, and by which the territory occupied
by them was guarantied to them by the United States; and that the laws of
Georgia, under which the plaintiff in error was indicted, are repugnant to the
treaties, and unconstitutional and void, and also that they are repugnant to the
act of congress of March 1802, entitledl "an act to regulate trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes. The superior court of Gwinnett overruled the
plea, and thie plaintiff in error was tried and convicted, and sentenced "to hard
labour in the penitentiary for four years." Held, that this was a case in which
the supreme court of the United States had jurisdiction by writ .of error, under

516

SUPREME COURT.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

the twenty-fifth section of the

"

act to establish the judicial courts of the United

States" passed in 1789.
The indictment and plea in this case draw in question the validity of tie treaties
made by the United States with the Cherokee Indians: if not so, their construction is certainly drawn in question; and the decision has been, if not
against their validity, "against ihe right, privilege or exemption specially
set up and claimed under them." They also draw into question the validity
of a statute of the state of Georgia, '"on the ground of its being repugnant to
the constitution, treaties and laws of the United States, and the decision is in
favour of its validity."
It is too clear for controversy, thaf the act of congress, by which this court is
constituted, has given it the power, and of course imposed on it the duty of
exercising juiisdiction in this case. The record, according to the judiciary
act and the rule and prac tice of tie court, is regularly before the court.
The act of the legislature of Georgia, passed 22d December 1830, entitled "1an
act to prevent the exercise of assumsed and arbitrary power by all persons, under
pretext of authority from the Cherokee Indians," &c. enacts that "all white
persons, residing within the limits of the Cherokee nation on the 1st day of
March next, or at any time thereafter, without a license or permit from his
excellency the governor, or from such agent as his excellency the governor
shall authorise to grant such permit or license, and who shall not have taken
the oath hereinafter required, shall be guilty of a high misdemeanour, and
upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by confinement to the penitentiary
at haid labour, for a term not less than four years." The eleventh section
authorises the governor, "should he deem it necessary for the protection of
the mines, or the enforcement of the laws in force within the Cherokee nation,
to raise and organise a guard," &c. The thirteenth section enacts, ". that tile
said guard or any member of them, shall be, and they are hereby authorised
and empowered to arrest any person legally charged with or detected in a violation of the laws of this state, and to convey, as soon as practicable, the person so arrested, before a justice of the peace, judge of the superior, justice of
interior court of this state, to be dealt with according to law." The extra.
territorial power of every legislature being limited in its action to its own citizens or subjects, the very passage of this act is an assertion of jurisdiction over
the Cherokee nation, and of the rights and powers consequent thereto.
The principle, " that discovery of parts of the continent of Ameica gave title (o
the government by whose subjects, or by whose authority it was made, against
all other Euiopean governments, which title might be consunmated by possession," acknowledged by all Europeans, because it was the interest of all
to acknowledge it; gave to the nation making the discovery, as its inevitable
consequence, the sole iight of acquiring the soil and of making settlements on
it. It was an exclusive principle, which shut out the right of competition
among those who had agreed to it; not one which could annul the previous
rights of those who had not agreed to it. It regulated the right given by discovery among the European discoverers, but could not affect the rights of those
already in possession, either as aboriginal occupants, or as occupants by virtue
of a discovery made before the memory of man. It gave the exclusive right
to purchase,'but did not found that right on a denial of the right of the possessor to sell.
The relation between the Europeans and tire natives was determined in each
case by the particular government which asserted and eould maintain this pre-

JANUARY TERM 1832.

517

[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]
emptive privilege in the particular place. The United States succeeded to all
the claims of"Great Britain, both territorial and political, but no attempt, so far
as Is known, has, been made to enlarge them. So far as they existed merely
in theory, or were in their nature only exclusive of the claims of other European nations, they still retain their origibal character, and remain dormant.
So far as they have been practically exerted, they exist in fact, are understood
by both parties, are asserted by the one, and admitted by the other.
Soon after Great Britain fetermined on planting colonies in America, the king
granted charters to companies of his subjects, who associated for the purpose
of carrying the views of the crown into effect, and of.enriching themselves.
The first of these charters was made before possession was taken of any part
of the country. TIhey purport generally to convey the soil, from the Atlantic
to the South Sea. This soil was occupied by numerous and Warlike nations,
equally willing and able to defend their possessions. The extravagant and
absurd idea, that the feeble settlements made on the sea coast, or the companies under whom they were made, acquired legitimate power by them to govern
the people, or occupy the lands from sea to sea, did not enter the mind of any
man. They were well understood to convey the title which, according to the
common law of European sovereigns respectingAmerica, they might rightfully
convey, and no more. This was the exclusive right of purchasing such lands
as the natives were willing to sell. The crown could not be understood to
grant what the crown did not affect to claim, nor was it so understood.
Certain it is, that our history furnishes no example, from the first settlement of
our country, of any attempt, on the part of the crown, to interfere with the
internal affairs of the Indians, farther than to keep out the agents of foreign
powers, who, as traders or otherwise, might seduce them into foreign alliances.
The king purchased their lands when they were willing to sell, at a price they
were willing to take; but never coerced a surrender of them. He also purchased their alliance and dependence by subsidies; but never intruded into the
interior of their affairs, or interfered with their self government, so far as respected themselves only.
The third article of the treaty of Hopewell acknowledges the Cherokees to be
under the protection of the United States of America, and of no other power.
This stipulation is found in Indian trdaties, generally. 'It was introduced into
their treaties with Great Britain; and may probably be found in those with other
European powers. Its origin may be traced to the nature of their connexion
with those powers; and its true meaning is discerned in their relative situ.
ation.
The general law of European sovereigns, iespecting their claims in America,
limited the Intercourse of Indians, in a great degree, to the particular potentate,
whose ultimate right of domain was acknowledged by the others. This was
the general state of things in time of peace. It was sometimes changed ifwar.
The consequence was, that their supplies were derived chiefly from that nation, and their trade confined to it. Goods, indispensable to their comfort, in
the shape of presents, were received from the same hand. What was of still
more importance, the strong hand of government was interposed to. restrain
the disorderly and licentious from intrusions into their country, from encroachments on their lands, and from those acts of violence which were often attended by reciprocal muder. The Indians peiceived in this protection, only what
was beneficial to themselves--an engagement to punish aggressions on them.
It involved practically no claim to their lands, no dominion over their persons.

SUPREME COURT.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]
It merely bound the nation to the British crown, as a dependent ally, claiming
the protection of a powerful friend and neighbour, and receiving the advanta.
gesof that protection, without involving a surrender of their national character.
This is the true meaning of the stipulation, and is undoubtedly the sense in which
it was made. Neither the British government, nor the Cherokees, ever understood it otherwise.
The same stipulation entered into with the United States, is undoubtedly to be
construed in the same manner. They receive the Cherokee nation into their
favour and protection. The Cherokees acknowledge themselves to be under
the protection of the United States, and of no other power. Protection does
naot imply the destruction of the protected. The manner in which this stipulation was understood by the American government, is explained by the language and acts of our first president.
So with respect to the words "hunting grounds." Hunting was at that time the
principal occupation of the Indians, and their land was more used for that purpose than for any other. It could not, however, be supposed, that any intention, existed of restricting the full use of the lands they reserved.
To the U-ited States, it could be a matter of no concern, whether their
whole territory was devoted to hunting grounds;or whether an occasional
village, and an occasional zorn field interrupted, and gave some variety to the
scene.
These terms had been used in their treaties with Great Britain, and had never
been misunderstood. 7 hey had never been supposed to imply a right in the
British government to take their lands, or to interfere with their internal government.
The sixth -and seventh articles stipulate for the punishment of the citizens ef
either country, who may commit offences on or against the citizens of the
other. The only inference to be drawn from them is, that the United States
considered the Cherokees av a nation.
The ninth article is in these words: "for the benefit and comfort of the Indians,
and for the prevention of injuries or oppressions on the part of the citizens or
Indians, the United States, in congress assembled, shall have the sole and exclusive right of regulating the trade with the Indians, and managing all their
affairs, as they think proper." To construe the expression "managing all their
affairs," into a surrender of self government would be a perversion of their
necessary meaning, and a departure from the construction which has been uniformly put on them. The great subject of the article is the Indian trade. The
influence it gave made it desirable that congress should possess it. The commissioners brought forward the claim, with the profession that their motive was,
"the benefit and comfort of the Indians, and the prevention of injuries or oppressinns:" This may be true, as respects the regulation of their trade, and as
respects the regulation of all affairs connected with their trade; but cannot be
true, as respects the management of all their affairs. The most important of
these, is the cession of their lands, and security against intruders on them. . Is
it credible, that they could have considered themselves as surrendering to the
United States, the right to dictate their future cessions, and the terms on which
they should be made; or to compel their submission to the violence of disorderly
and licentious intruders? It is equally inconceivable that they could have
supposed themselves, by a phrase thus slipped into an article, on another and
more interesting subject, to have divested themselves of the right of self goveminent on subjects not connected with trade. Stch a measwe could not be

JANUARY TERADI 1832.

519

[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]
"for their benefit and comfort," or for" the prevention of injuries and oppressio ." Such a construction would be inconsistent with the spirit 6f this and
of all subsequent treaties; especially of those articles which recognise the right
of the Cherokees to declare hostilities, and to make war. It would convert a
treaty of peace covertly into an act annihilating the political existence of one
of the parties. Had such a result been intended, it would have been openly
avowed.
This treaty contains a few terms capable of being used in a sense which could
not have been intended at the time, apd which is inconsistent with the practical construction which has always been put on them; but its essential articles
treat the Cherokees as a nation capable of maintiniuig the relations of peace
and war; andascertain the boundaies between them and the United States.
The treaty of Holston, negotiated with the Cherokees in July 1791; explicitly
recognising the national character of the Cherokees, and their right of self.
government; thus guarantying their lands; assuming the duty of protection;
and of course pledging the faith of the United States for that protection; has
been fiequently renewed, and is now in full force.
To the general pledge of protection fiave been added several specific pledges,
deemed valuable by the Indians. Some of these restrain the citizens of the
Unittd States from encroachments on the Cherokee country, and nrovide for
the punishment of intruders.
The treaties and laws of the United States contemplate the Indian territory as
completely separated from that of the states; and provide that all intercourse
with them shall be carried on exclusively by the government of the union..
The Indian nations had always been considered as distinct, independent political
communities, retaining their original natural rights, as the undisputed possessors of the soil, from time immemorial; with the single exception of that imposed by irresistible power, which excluded them from intercourse with any
other European potentate than the first discoverer of the coast of the partic.
hr region claimed: and this was a restrictipn which those European potentatei
imposed on themselves, as well as on the Indians. The very term " nation,"
so generally applied to them, means "a people distinct from others." The
constitution, by declaring treaties already made, as well as those to be
made, to be the supreme law of the land, has adopted and sanctioned the previous treaties with the Indian nations, and, consequently, admits their rank
among those poiers who are capable of making treaties. The words "treaty"
and "nation" are words of our own language, selected in our diplomatic and
legislative pioceedings, by ourselves, having each a definite and well understood meaning. We have applied them to Indians, as we have applied them
to the other nations of the earth. They are applied to all in the same sense.
Georgia, herself, has lurnished conclusive evidence that her former opinions on
this subject concuaed with those entertained by her sister states, and by the
government of the United States. Vaious acts of her legislature have been
cited in the argument, including the contract of cession made in the year 1802,
all tending to prove her acq~iescence in the universal conviction that the India" nations possessed a full right to the lands they occupied, until that right
Ahould be extinguished by the United States with their consent: that their
territory was separated from that of any state nithin whose "chattered limits
they might reside, by a boundary line, established by treaties: that, within their
boundary, they possessed lights with which no state could interfere: and that
the whole power of regulating the intercourse with then was vested in the
United States.

SUPREME COURT.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]
In opposition to the original right, possessed by the undispyted occupants of
every country, to this recognition of that right, which is evidenced by our history in every change through which we have passed, are placed the charters
granted by the monarch of a distant and distinct region, parcelling out a territory in possession of others, whom he could not remove, and did not attempt
to remove, and the cession made of his claims, by the treaty of peace. The
actual state of things at the time, and all history since, explain these charters;
and the king of Great Britain, at the treaty of peace, could cede only what belonged to his crown. These newly asserted titles can derive no aid from the
articles so often repeated in Indian treaties, extending to them, first, the pro.
tection of Great Britain, and afterwards that of the United States. These articles are associated with others, recognising their title to self-government. The
very fact of repeated treaties with them recognises it; and the settled doctrine
of the law of nations is, that a weaker power does not surrender its independence-its right to self-government, by associating with a stronger, and taking
its protection. A weak state, in order to provide for its safety, may place itself
under the protection of one more powerful, without stripping itself of the right
of government, and ceasing to be a state. Examples of this kind are not wantingin Europe. " Tributary and feudatory states," says Vattel, "do not thereby
cease to be sovereign and independent states, so long as self-government and
sovereign and independent authority are left in the adminishation of the state."
At the present day, more than one st3te may be considered as holding its right
of self-government under the guarantee and protection of one or more allies.
The Cherokee nation, then, is a distinct community, occupying its own teritory,
with boundaries accurately described, in which the laws of Georgia can have
no force, and which the citizens of Georgia have no right to enter, but with
the assent of the Cherokees themselves, or in conformity with treaties, and
with the acts of congress. The whole intercourse between the United States
and this nation, is. by our constitution and laws, vested in the government of
the United States.
The act of the state of Georgia, under which the plaintiff in error was prosecuted,
is consequently void, and the judgment a nullity.
The acts of the legislature of Georgia interfere forcibly with the relations established between the United States and the Cherokee nation, the regulation of
which, according to the settled principles of our constitution, is committed
exclusively to the government of the union.
They are in direct hostility with treaties, repeated in a succession of years, which
mark out the boundary that separates the Cherokee country flor Georgia;
guaranty to them all the land within their boundary; solemnly pledge the laith
of the United States to restrain their citiaens from trespassing on it; and recognise the pre-existing power of the nation to govern itself.
They are in equal hostility with the acts of congress for regulating this intercourse
and giving effect to the treaties.
Tlhe forcible seizure and abduction of the plaintiff in error, who was residing in
the nation, with its permission, and by authority of the piesident of the United
States, is also a violation of the acts which authorise the chief magistrate to
exercise this authority.
Will these powerful considerations avail the plaintiff in error ? We think they
will. He was seized and forcibly carried away, while under guardianship of
tteaties guarantying the country in which he resided and taking it under the
protection of the United States. He was seized while performing, under the

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]
sanction of the chief magistrate of thp union, those autiea which the huihane
policy adopted by congress had recommended. He was apprehended, tried,
and condemned, under colour of a law which has been shown to be repugnant
to the constitution, laws, and treaties of the United States. Had a judgment,
liable to the same objections, been rendered for property, none woula question
the jurisdiction of this court. It cannot be less dear when the judgment
affects personal liberty, and inflicts disgraceful punishment; if punishment could
digrace when inflicted on innocence. The plaintiff in error is not less interested in the operation of this unconstitutional law than if it affected his property. Ie is not less entitled to the protection of tie constitution, laws, and
treaties of his country.

THIS was a writ of error to the superior court for the county
of Gwinnett, in the state of Georgia.
On the 22d December 1830, the legislature of the state of
Georgia passed the following act:
"An act to prevent the exercise of assumed and arbitrary
power, by all pcrsons, under pretext ot authority from the
Cherokee Indians and their laws, and to prevent white persons from residing within that part of the chartered limits bf
Georgia, occupied by the Cherokee Indians, and to provide a
guard for the protectiou of the gold mines, and to enforce the
laws of the state within the aforesaid territory.
"Be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of
the state of Georgia in general assembly met, and it is hereby
enacted by the authority of the same, that, after the 1st day
of February 1811, it shall noL be lawful for any person or persons, under colour or pretence of authority from said Cherokee tribe, or as headmen, chiefs or warriors of said tribe, to
cause or procure by any mean. the assembling of any council
or other pretended legislative budy of the said Indians or
others living among them, for the purpose of legislating (or
for any other purpose whatever). And persons offending
against the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a high
misdemeanour, and subject to indictment therefor, and, on
conviction, shall be, punished by confinement at hrd labour
in the penitentiary for the space of four years.
"Sec. 2. And be it further enacted by the authority afore.
said, that, after the time aforesaid, it shall not be lawful for
any person or persons, under pretext of authority from the
Cherokee tribe, or as representatives, chiefs, headmen or warriors of said tribe, to meet or assemble as a council, assembly,
VO,. VI.--3 Q

SUPREME COURT.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

convention, or in any other capacity, for the purpose of making
laws, orders or regulations for said tribe. And all persons
offending against the provisions ofthis section, shall be guilty
of a high misdemeanour, and subject to an indictment, and,
on conviction thereof, shall undergo an imprisonment in the
penitentiary at hard labour for the space of four years.
"See. 3. And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, tlat, after the time aforesaid, it shall not be lawful for
any person or persons, under colour or by authority of the
Cherokee tribe, or any of its laws or regulations, to hold any
court or tribunal whatever, for the purpose of hearing and determining causes, either civil or criminal; or to give any judgment in such causes, or to issue, or cause to issue, any process
against the person or property of any of said tribe. And all
persons offending against the provisions of this section shall be
guilty of a high misdemeanour, and subject to indictmeiit, and,
on conviction thereof, shall be imprisoned in the penitentiary
at hard labour for the space of four years.
"See. 4. And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that, after the time aforesaid, it shall not be lawful for
any person or persons, as a ministerial officer, or in any other
capacity, to execute any precept, command or process issued
by any-courtor tribunal in the Cherokee tribe, on the persons
or property of any of said tribe. And all persous offending
against the provisions of this section, shall be guilty of a trespass, and subject to indictment, and, on conviction thereof,
shall be punished by fine. and imprisonment in the jail or in
the penitentiary, not longer than four years; at the discretion
of the court.
"Sec. 5. And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that, after the time aforesaid, it shall not be lawful for
any person or persons to confiscate, or attempt to confiscate,
or otherwise to cause a forfeiture of the property or estate of
any Indian of said tribe, in consequence of his enrolling himself and family for emigration, or offering to enrol for emigration, or any other act of said Indian, in furtherance of his
intention to emigrate. And persons offending against the provisions of this section shall be guilty of high misdemeanour,
and, on conviction, shall undergo an imprisonment in the
penitentiary at hard labour for the space of four years.

JANUARY TERM, 1832.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

"See. 6. And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid,
that none of the provisions of this act shall be so construed as
to prevent said tribe, its headmen, chiefs or other representatives, from meeting any agent or commissioner, on the part of
this state or tle United States, for any purpose whatever.
"Sec. 7. And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid,
that all white persons residilg'within the limits of the Cherokee nation, on the 1st day of March next, or at L v time
thereafter, without a license or permit from his excellency
the governor, or from such agent as his excellency the governor shall authorise to grant such permit or license, and who
shall not have taken the oath hereinafter required, shall be
guilty of a high misdemeanour, and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished by confinement to the penitentiary at hard
labour for a term not less than four years: provided, that the
provisions of this section shall not be so construed as to extend
to any authorised agent or agents of the government of the
United States or of this state, or to any person or persons who
may rent any of those improvements which have been abandoned by Indians who have emigrated west of the Mississippi:
provided, nothing contained in this section shall be so construed
as to extend to white females, and all male children under
twenty-one years of age.
"Sec. 8. And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid,
that all white persons, citizens of the state of Georgia, who
have procured a license in writing from his excellency the
governor, or from such agent as "his excellency the governor
shall authorise to grant such permit or license, to reside within
the limits of the Qherokee nation, and who have taken the
following oath, viz. "I, A. B., do solemnly swear (or affirm,
as the case may be) that I will support and defend the constitution and law's of the state of Georgia, and uprightly demean
myself as a citizen thereof, so help me God," shall be, and the
same are hereby declared, exempt and free from the operation
of the seventh section of this act.
"Sec. 9. And be it further enacted, that his excellency the
governor be, arid he is hereby, authorized to grant licenses to
reside within the limits of the Cherokee nation. according to
the provisions of the eighth section of this act.
"See. 10. And be it further enacted by the authority afore-

SUPREME COURT.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

said, that no person shall collect or claim any toll from any
person, for passing any turnpike gate or toll bridge, by authority of any act or law of the Cherokee tribe, or any chief
or headman or men of the same.
"Sec. 11. And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that his excellency the governor be, and he is hereby,
empowered, should he deem it necessary, either for the pro tection of the mines, or for the enforcement of the laws of
force within the Cherokee nation, to.raise and organize a guard,
to be employed on foot, or mounted, as occasion may require,
which shall not consist of more than sixty persons, whicl
guard shall be under the command of the commissioner or
agent appointed by the governor, to protect the mines, with
power to dismiss from the service any member of said guard,
on paying the wages due for services rendered, for disorderly
conduct, and make appointments to fill the vacancies occasioned by such dismissal.
"Sec. 12. And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that each person who may belong to said guard, shall
receive for his compensation at the rate of fifteen dollars per
month when on foot, andl at the rate of twenty dollars per
month when mounted, for every month that such person is
engaged in actual service; and, in the event, that the commissioner or agent, herein referred to, should die, resign, or
fail to perform the duties herein requited of him, his excellency the governor is hereby authorised and required to appoint, in his stead, some other fit and proper person to the
command of Isaid guard; and the commissioner or agent, having the command of the guard aforesaid, for the better
discipline thereof, shall appoint three sergeants, who shall
receive at the rate of twenty dollars per month while
serving on foot, and twenty-five dollars per month, when
mounted, as compensation whilst in actual service.
"Scc.
13. And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the said guard, or any member of them, shall be,
and they are hereby, authorised and empowered to arrest any
person legally charged with, or detected in, a violation of the
laws of this state, and to convey, as soon as' practicable, the
person so arrested before a justice of the peace, judge of the
superior or justice of inferior court of this state, to be dealt

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

with according to law; and the pay and support of said guard
be provided out of the fund already appropriated for the protection of the gold mines."
The legislature of Georgia, on the 19th December 1829,
passed the following act:
"An act to add the territory lying within the chartered limits
of Georgia, and now in the occupancy of the Cherokee Indians, to the counties of Carroll, De Kalb, Gwinnett, Hall, and
Habersham, and to extend the laws of this state over the same,
and to annul all laws and ordinances made by the Cherokee
nation of Indians, and to provide for the c9mpensation of officers serving legal process in said t'erritory, and to regulate the
testimony of Indians, and to repeal the ninth section of the act
of 1828 upon this subject.
"See. 1. Be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the state of Georgia in general assembly met, and
it is hereby enacted by the authority of the same, that from
and after the passing of this act, all that part of the unlocated
territory within the limits of this state, and whiei lies between
the Alabama line and the old path leading from the Buzzard
Roost on the Chattahoochee, to Sally Hughes's, on the Hightower river; thence to Thomas Pelet's, on the old federal road;
thence with said road to the Alabama line be, and the same is
hereby added to, and shall become a part of, the county of
Carroll.
"Sec. 2. And be it further enacted, that all that part of said
territory lying and being north of the last mentioned line, and
south of the road running from Charles Gait's ferry, on the
Chattahoochee river, to Dick Roe's, to where it intersects with
the path aforesaid, be, and the same is hereby added to, and
.hall become a pirt of, the county of De Kalb.
"See. 3. And be it further enacted, that all that part of the
said territory lying north of the last mentioned line, and south
of a line commencing at the mouth of B3aldridge's creek; thence
up said creek to its source; from thence to where the federal
road crosses the Hightower; thence with said road to the Ten
nessee line, be, and the same is hereby added to, and shall
become part of, the colinty of Gwinnett.
"See. 4. And be it further enacted, that all that part of the
said territory lying north of said last mentioned line, and south

526

SUPREME COURT.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

of a line to commence on the Chestatee river, at the mouth of
Yoholo creek; thence up said creek to the top of the Blue
ridge; thence to the head waters of Notley river; thence down
said river to the boundary line of Georgia, be, and the same is
hereby added to, and shall become a part of, the county of
Hall.
"Sec. 5. And be it further enacted, that all that part of said
territory lying north of said last mentionfad line, within the
limits of this state, be, and the same is hereby added to, and
shall become a part of, -the county of Habersham.
"Sec. 6. And be It further enacted, that all the laws, both civil
and criminal, of this state, be, and the same are hereby extended over said portions of territory, respectively; and all
persons whatever,' residing within the same, shall, after the
1st day of June next, be subject and liable to the operation of
said laws, in the same.manner as other citizens of this state,'or
the citizens of said counties, respectively; and all writs and
processes whatever, issued by the courts or officers of said
courts, shall extend over, and operate on, the portions of territory hereby added to the same, respectively.
- Sec. 7. And be it further enacted, that after the 1st day of
June next, all laws, ordinances, orders and regulationg, of any
kind whatever, made, passed or enacted, by the Cherokee
Indians, either in general council or in any other way whatever, or by any authority whatever of said tribe, be, and the
same are hereby declared to be, null and void, and of no effect
as if the same had never existed; and in all cases of indictment
or civil suits, it shall not be lawful for the defendant to justify
under any of said laws, ordinances, orders or regulations; not
shall the courts of this state permit the same to be given in
evidence on the trial of any suit whatever.
",Sec. 8. And be it further enacted, that it shall not be lawful
for any person or body of persons, by. arbitrary power or by
virtue of any pretended rhle, ordinance, law or custom of said
Cherokee nation, to prevent by .threats, menaces or other
means, or endeavour to prevent, any Indian of said nation, residing within the chartered limits of this state, from enrolling
as an emigrant, or, actually emigrating or removing from said
nation; nor shall it be lawful for any person or body of persons, by arbitrary power or by virtue of any pretended rule,

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.3

ordinance, law or custom of said nation, to punish, in any
manner, or to molest either the person or property, or to
abridge the rights or privileges of any Indian, for enrolling his
or her name as an emigrant, or for emigrating or intending to
emigrate, from said nation.
"Sec. 9. And be it further enacted, that any person or body
of persons offending against the provisions of the foregoing
section, shall be guilty bf a high misdemeanour, subject to indictment, and on conviction shall be punished by confinement
in the common jail of any county of this state, or by confinement at hard labour in the penitentiary, for a term not exceeding four years, at the discretion of the court.
"Sec. 10. And be it further enacted, that it shall not b
lawful for any person or body of persons, by- arbitrary power,
or under colour of any pretended rule, ordinance, law or custom of said nation, to prevent or offer to prevent, or deter any
Indian headman, chief or warrior of said nation, residing
within the chartered limits of this state, from selling or ceding
to the United States, for the use of Georgia, the whole or any
part of said territory, or to prevent or offer to prevent, any
Indian, headman, chief or warrior of said nation, residing as
aforesaid, from meeting in council or treaty any commissioner
or commissioners on the part of the United States, for any
purpose whatever.
"Sec. 11. And be it further enacted, that any person or body
of persons offending against the provisions of the foregoing
sections, shall be guilty of a high misdemeanour, subject to
indictment, and on convictidn shall be confined at hard labour
in the penitentiary for not less than four nor longer than six
years, at the discretion of the court.
"Sec. 12. And be it further enacted, that it shall not be lawful for any person or body of persons, by arbitrary force, or
under colour of any pretended rules, ordinances, law or custom
of said nation, to take the life of any Indian residing as aforesaid, for enlisting as an emigrant; attempting to emigrater;
ceding, or attempting to cede, as aforesaid, the whole or any
part of the said territory; or meeting or attempting to meet, in
treaty or in council, as aforesaid, any commissioner or commissioners aforesaid; and any person or body of persons offending against the provisions of this section, shall be guilty of

SUPREME CGURT.
[Woreester v. The State of Georgia.]

murder, subject to indictment, and, on conviction, shall suffer
death by hanging.
"9Sec. 13. And be it further enacted, that, should any of the
foregoing offences be committed under colotr of any pretended
rules, ordinances, custom or law of said nation, all persons
acting -therein, either as individuals or as pretended executive,
ministerial or judicial officers, shall be deemed and considered
as principals, and subject to the pains and penalties hereinbefore described.
" Sec. 14. And be it further enacted, that for all demands
which may come within the jurisdiction of a magistrate's court,
suit may be brought for the same in the nearest district of the
county to which the. territory is hereby annexed; and all officers serving Any legal process on any person living on any
portion of the territory herein named, shall be entitled to recover the surni of five cents for every mile he may ride to serve
the sain, after crossing the present limits of the said counties,
in addition to the fees already allowed by law; and in case any
of the said officers should be resisted in the execution of any
legal process issued by any court or magistrate, justice of the
inferior court, or judge of the superior court of any of said
counties, he is hereby authorised to call out a sufficient number of thb militia of said counties to aid and protect him in the
execution of this duty.
,,Sec. 15. And be it further enacted, that no Indian or de.scendant of any Indian, residing within the Creek or Cherokee
nations of Indians, shall be deemed a competent witness in any
,court of this state to which a white person may be a party,
except sueb white person resides within the said nation."
In Septerfiber 1831, the grand jurors for the county of
Gwinnett in the state of Georgia, presented to the superior
court of the county the following indictment:
" Georgia, Gwinnett county:-The grand jurors, sworn,
chosen and selected for the county of Gwinnett, in the
name and behalf of the citizens of Georgia, charge and accuse Elizur Butler, Samuel A. Worcester, James Trott,
Samuel Mays, Surry Eaton, Austin Copeland, and Edward
D. Losure, white persons'of said county, with the offence of
'residing within the limits of the Cherokee nation without a
license:' For that the said Elizur Bttler, Samuel A. Wor-

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

cester, James Trott, Samuel Mays, Surry Eaton, Austin Copeland and Edward D. Losure, white persons, as aforesaid, on
the 15th day of July 1831, did reside in that part of the Cherokee nation attached by the laws of said state to the said county,
and in the county aforesaid, without a license or permit from
his excellency the governor of said state, or from any agent
authorised by his excellency the governor aforesaid to grant
such permit or license, and without having taken the oath to
support and defend the constitution and laws of the state of
Georgia, and uprightly to demean themselves as citizens thereof, contrary to the laws of said state, the good order, peace and
dignity thereof."
To this indictment, the plaintiff in error pleaded specially,
as follows:
"And the said Samuel A. Worcester, in his own proper person, comes and says, that this court ought not to take further
cognizance of the action and prosecution aforesaid, because, he
says, that, on the 15th day of July in the year 1831, he was,
and still is, a resident in the Cherokee nation; and that the
said supposed crime, or crimes, and each of them, were comwitted, if committed at all, at the town of New Echota, in the
said Cherokee nation, out of the jurisdiction of this court, and
not in the county Gwinnett, or elsewhere within the jurisdiction of this court. And this defendant saith, that he is a citizen of the state of Vermont, one of the United States of America, and that he entered the aforesaid Cherokee nation in the
capacity of a duly authorised missionary of the American
Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, under the authority of the president of the United States, and has not since
been required by him to leave it: that he was, at the time of
his arrest, engaged in preaching the gospel to the Cherokee
Indians, and in translating the sacred Scriptures into their language, with the permission and approval of the said Cherokee
nation, and in accordance with the humane policy -of the
government of the United States, for the civilization and improvement of the Indians; and that his residence there, for this
purpose, is the residence charged in the aforesaid indictment:
and this defendant further saith, that this prosecution the state
of Georgia ought not to have or maintain, bec.ause, he saith,
that several treaties have, from time to time, been entered
VOL. VL-3 R

SUPREME COURT.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

into between the United States and the Cherokee nation of
Indians, to wit: at Hopewell, on the 28th day of November
1785; at Holston, on the 2d day of July 1791; at 1hiladelphia, on the 26th'day of June 1794; at Tellico, on the 2d day
bf October 1798; at Tellico, on the 24th day of October 1804;
at Tellico, on the 25th day of October 1805; at Tellico, on
the 27th day of October 1805; at Washington city, on -the 7th
day of January 1805; at Washington city, on tLA 2"2d day of
March 1816; at the Chickasaw Council House, on the 14th
day of September 1.816; at the Cherokee Agency, on the 8th
day of July 1817, and at Washington city, on the 27th day
of February 1819: all which treaties have been duly ratified
by the senate of the United States of America; and, by which
treaties the United States of America acknowledge the said
Cherokee natien to be a sovereign nation, authorised to govern
themselves, and all persons who have settled within their
territory, free from any right of legislative interference by the
several states composing the United States of America, in
reference to acts done within their own territory; and, by
which treaties, the whole of the territory now occupied by
the Cherokee nation, on the east of the Mississippi, has been
solemnly guarantied to them; all of which treaties are existing
treaties at this day, and in full force. By these treaties, and
particularly by the treaties of Hopewell and Holston, the afore.said territory is acknowledged to lie without the jurisdiction
of the several states composing the union of the United States;
and, it is thereby specially stipulated, that the citizens of the
United States shall not enter the aforesaid territory, even on
a visit, without a passport from the governor of a state, or
from some one duly authorised thereto by the president of
the United States: all of which will more fully and at large
appear, by reference to the aforesaid treaties. And this defendant saith, that the several acts charged in the bill of indictment, were done, or omitted to be done, if at all, within the
,said territory so recognized as belonging to the said nation, and
so, as aforesaid, held by them, under the guarantee of the United
States: that, for those acts, the defendant is not amenable to the
laws of Georgia, nor to the jurisdiction of the courts of the said
state; and that the laws of the state of Georgia, which profess
to add the said territory to the several adjacent counties of the
said state, and to extend the laws of Georgia over the said ter-

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

ritory, and persons inhabiting the same; and, in particular, the
act on which this indictment against this defendant is grounded,
to wit: 'an act entitled an act to prevent the exercise of
assumed and arbitrary power, by all persons, under pretext of
authority from the Cherokee Indians, and their laws, and to
prevent white persons from residing within that part of the
chartered limits of Georgia, occupied by the Cherokee Indians, and to provide a guard for the protection of the gold
mines, and to enforce the laws of the state within the aforesaid
territory,' are repugnant to the aforesaid treaties; Which, according to the constitution of the United States, compose a
part of the supreme law of the land; and that these laws of
Georgia are, therefore, unconstitutiopal, void, and of no effect:
that the said laws of Georgia are also unconstitutional and void,
because they impair the obligation of the various contracts
formed by and between the aforesaid Cherokee nation and the
said United States of America, as above recited: also, that the
said laws of Georgia are unconstitutional and void, because they
interfere with, and attempt to regulate and control the intercourse with the said Cherokee nation, which, by the said
constitution, belongs exclusively to the congress of the United
States; and because the said laws are repugnant to the statute
of the United States, passed on the day of March 1802,
entitled 'an act to regulate trade and intercourse with the
Indian tribes, and to preserve peace on the frontiers:' and that,
therefore, this court has no jurisdiction to cause this defendant
to make further or other answer to the said bill of indictment,
or further to try and punish this defendant for the said supposed offence or offences alleged in the bill of indictment, or
any of them: and, therefore, this defendant prays judgment
whether he shall be-held bound to answer further to said indictment."
This plea was overruled by the court; and the jurisdiction
of the superior court of the county of Gwinnett was sustained
by the judgment of the court.
The defendant was then arraigned, and pleaded" not guilty:"
and the case came on for trial on the 15th of September 1831,
when the jury found the defendants in the indictment guilty.
On the same day the court pronounced sentence on the parties
so convicted, as follows:

SUPREME COURT.
[Worces(er v. The State of Georgia.]

"The State v. B. F. Thompson and others. Indictment
for residing in the Cherokee nation without license. Verdict,
Guilty."
"The State v. Elizur Butler, Samuel A. Wofeester and
others. Indictment for residing in the Cherokee nation without license. Verdict, Guilty."
"The defendants, in both of the above cases, shall be kept
in close custody by the sheriff of this county, until they can be
transported to the penitentiary of this state, and the keeper
thereof is hereby directed to receive them, and each of them,
into his custody, and keep them, and each of them, at hard
labour in said penitentiary, for and during the term of four
years."
A writ of error was issued on the application of the plaintiff in error, dn the 27th of October 1831, which, with the
following proceedings thereon, was returned to this court.
"United States of America, ss.-The president of the United
States to the honourable the judges of the superior court for
the county of Gwinnett, in the state of Georgia, greeting:
"Because in the record and proceedings, as also in the rendition nf the judgment of a plea which is in the said superior
court, for the county -ofGwinnett, before you, or some of you,
between the stnte of Georgia, plaintiff, and Samuel A. Worcester, defendant, on an indictment, being the highest court of
law in said state in which a decision could be had in said suit,
a manifest error bath happened, to the great damage of the
said Samuel A. Worcester, as by his complaint appears. We
being willing that error, if sny bath been, should be duly corrected, and full and speedy justice done to the parties aforesaid in this behalf, do command you, if judgment be therein
given, that then under your seal distinctly and openly, you
send the record and proceedings aforesaid, witl. all things concerning the same, to the supreme court of the United States,
together with this writ, so that you have the same at Washington on the second Monday of January next, in the said
supreme court, to be then and there held; that the record and
proceedings aforesaid being inspected, the said supreme court
may cause further .to be done therein, to correct that error,
what of right, and according to the laws and custom of the
United States, should be done.

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

44 Witness, the honourable John Marshall, chief justice of the
said supreme court, the first Monday of August in the year of
our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty-one.
Vm. THos. CARROLL,
Clerk of the Supreme Court of the United States.
"Allowed by HENRY BALDWIN.
States of America to the state of Georgia, greeting:
"You are hereby cited and admonished to be, and appear at
a supreme court of the United States, to be holden at Washington, on the second Monday of January next, pursuant to a
writ of error filed in the clerk's office of the superior court for
the county of Gwinnett, in the state of Georgia, wherein
Samuel A. Worcester is plaintiff in error, and the state of
Georgia is defendant in error, to show cause, if any there be,
why judgment rendered against the said Samuel A. Worcester,
as in the said writ of error mentioned, should not be corrected,
and why speedy justice should not be done to the parties in
that behalf.
"Witness, the honourable Henry Baldwin, one of the justices
of the supreme court of the United States, this 27th day of
October, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred
and thirty-one.
HENRY BALDWIN.
"State of Georgia, county of Gwinnett, sct.-On this 26th
day of November, in the year of our Lord eighteen hundred
and thirty-one, William Potter personally appeared before the
subscriber, John Mills, a justice of the peace in and for said
county, and being duly sworn on the holy evangelists of
Almighty God, deposeth and saith, that on the 24th day of
November instant, he delivered a true copy of the within
citation to his excellency, Wilson Lumpkin, governor of the
state of Georgia, and another true copy thereof he delivered,
on the 22d day of November, instant, to Charles J. Jenkins,
Esq. attorney-general of the state aforesaid, showing to-the
said governor and attorney-general, respectively, at the times of
delivery herein stated, the within citation. WM. POTTER.
"Sworn to and subscribed before me, the day and year above
written. JOHN MILLS, J..P."
This writ of error was returned to the supreme court with
bUnited

SUPREME COURT.
[Worcester v, The State of Georgia.]

copies of all the proceedings 'in the supreme court of the
county of Gwinnett, as stated, and accompanied with certificates of the clerk of that court in the following terms:
"Georgia, Gwinnett county. I, John G. Park, clerk of the
superior court of the county of Gwinnett, and state aforesaid,
do certify that the annexed and foregoing is a full and complete exemplification of the proceedings and judgments had.
in said bourt against Samuel A. Worcester, one of the defendants in the case therein mentioned, as they remain, of record,
in the said superior court.
"Given under my hand, and seal of the court, this 28th day
JoHN G. PARK, Clerk.
of November 1831.
c I also certify, that the original bond, of which a-copy is
annexed (the bond was in the usual form), and also a copy of
the annexed writ of error, were duly deposited and filed in the
clerk's office of said court, on the 10th day of November in
the year of our Lord ighteen hundred and thirty-one.
"tGiven under my nand and seal aforesaid, the day and date
JoHN G. P 2RK, Clerk."
above written.
The case of Elizur Butler, plaintiff in error v. The State
of. Georgia, was brought before the-supreme court in the same
mantner.
The case was argued for the plaintiffs in error by Mr Sergeant and Mr Wirt, with whom also was Mr Elisha W. Chester.
The following positions were laid down and supported by
Mr Sergeant and Mr Wirt.
1. That the court had jurisdiction of the question brought
before them by the writ of error; and the jurisdiction extendea
equally to criminal and to civil cases.
2!. That the writ of error was duly issued, and duly returned,
so as to bring the question regularly before the court, under
the constitution and laws of the United States; and oblige the
court to take cognizance of it.
3.- That the statute of Georgia under which the plaintiffs in
error were indicted and convicted, was unconstitutional and
void. Because:

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

1. By the constitution of the United States, the establishment and regulation of intercourse with the Indians belonged,
exclusively, to the government of the United States.
2. The power thus given, exclusively, to the government of
the United States had been exercised by treaties and by acts
of congress, now in force, and applying directly to the case of
the Cherokees; and that no state could interfere, without a
manifest violation of such treaties and laws, which by the constitution were the supreme law of the land.
3. The statute of Georgia assumed the power to change
these regulations and laws; to prohibit that which they permitted; and to make that criminal which they declared innocent or meritorious; and to subject to condemnation and punishment, free citizens of the United States who had committed
no offence.
4. That the indictment, conviction, and sentence being
founded upon a statute of Georgia, which was. unconstitutional
and void; were themselves also void and of no effect, and
ought to be reversed.
These several positions were supported, enforced and illustrated by argument and authority.
The following authorities were referred to:
2 Laws U. S. 65, sect. 25; Judiciary Act of 1789; Miller
v. Nicols, 4 Wheat. 311; Craig v. State of Missouri, 4 Peters,
400, 429; Fisher v. Cockerell, 5 Peters, 248, Ex parte Kearny,
7 Wheat. 38; Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264; Martin v.
Hunter, 1 Wheat. 304, 315, 361; 1 Laws U.S. 488,1470, 472,
42, 484, 486, 453; Blunt's Historical Sketch, 106, 107;
Treaties with the Cherokees, 28th Nov. 1785, 2d July 179,1,
26th July 1794, 2d Oct. 1798; 3 LawsU., S. 27, 125, 284, 303,
344, 460; 12 Journ. Congress, 82; Blunt's Hist.'Sketch, 113,
110, 11, 114;- Federalist, No. 42; 1 Laws U. S. 454; Holland v. Pack, Peck's Rep. 151; Johnson v. M'Intosh, 8
Wheat. 543; Cherokee Nation v. State of Georgia, 5- Peters,
1, 16, 27, 31, 48; Ware v. Hylton, 3 Dall. 199; Hughes v.
Edwards, 9 Wheat. 489; Fisher v. Hamden, 1 Paine, 55;
Hamilton v. Eaton, North Carolina Cases, 79; M'Cullough v.
State of Maryland, 4 Wheat 316; 2 Laws U. S. 121; 3 Laws
U. S. 460; 6 Laws U. S. 750; Gibbon v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1.

SUPREME COURT.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the

,Court.
This cause, in every point of view in which it can be placed,
is of the deepest interest.
The defendant is a state, a member of the union, which has
exercised the powers of government over a people who deny
its jurisdiction, and are under the protection of the United
States.
The plaintiff is a citizen of the state of Vermont, condemned
to hard labour for four. years in the penitentiary of Georgia;
under colour of an act which he alleges to be repugnant to the
constitution, laws, and treaties of the United States.
The legislatiye power of a state, the controlling power of
the constitution and laws of the United States, the rights, if
they have any, the political existence of a once numerous and
powerful people, the personal liberty of a citizen, are all involved in the subject now to be considered.
It behoves this court, in every case, more especially in
this, to examine into its jurisdiction with scrutinizing eyes;
before it proceeds to the exercise of a power which is controverted.
The first step in the performance of this duty is the inquiry
whether the record is properly before the court.
It is certified by the clerk of the court, which pronounced
the judgment of condemnation under which the plaintiff in
error is imprisoned; and is also authenticated by the seal of the
court.. It is returned with, and annexed to, a writ of error
issued in regular form, the citation being signed by one of the
associate justices of the supreme court, and served on the governor and attorney-general of the state, more than thirty days
before the commencement of the term to which the writ of
error was returnable.
 The judicial act (see. 22, 25, 2 Laws U. S. 64, 65), so far as
it prescribes the mode of proceeding, appears to have been literally pursued.
In February 1797, a rule (6 Wheat Rules) was made on this
subject, in the following words: "It is ordered by the court,
that the clerk of'the court to which any writ of error shall be
directed, may make return of the same by transmitting a true

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

copy of the record, and of all proceedings in the same, under
his hand and the seal of the court."
This.has been done. But the signature of the judge has not
been added to that of the clerk. , The law does not-require it.
The rule does not require it.
In the case of Martin v. Hunter's Lessee, 1 Wheat. 304,
361, an exception was taken to the return of the refusal of the
state court to enter a prior judgment of reversal by this court;
because it was not made by the judge of the state court to
which the writ was directed: but the exception was overruled,
and the return was held sufficient. In Buel v. Van Ness, 8
Wheat. 312, also a writ of error to a state court, the record
was authenticated in the same manner. No exception was
taken to it. These were civil cases. But it has been truly
said at the bar, that, in regard to 'this process, the law makes
no distinction between a criminal and civil case. The same
return is required in both. If the sanction of the court could
be necessary for the establishment of this position, it has been,
silently given.
M'Culloch v. The State of Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, was a
qui tarn action, brought to recover a penalty, and the record
was authenticated by the seal of the court and the signature of
the clerk, without that of a judge. Brown et al. v. The State
of Maryland, was an indictment for a fine and forfeiture. The
record in this case, too, was authenticated by the seal of the
court and the certificate of the clerk. The practice is both
ways.
The record, then, according to the jtrdiciary act, and the
rule and the practice of the court, is regularly before us. The
more important inquiry is, does it exhibit a case cognizable
by this tribunal ?
Tbe indictment charges the pl)iintiff in error, and others,
being white persons, with the offence of "re.miding within the
limits of the Cherokee nation without a license," and "without having taken the oath to support and defiend the'constitution and laws of the state of Georgia."
The defendant in the state court appeared in proper person,
and filed the following plea:
"And the said S4muel A. Worcester, in -his own proper
person, comes and says, that this court ought not to take furVOL. VI.-3 S

SUPREME COURT.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

ther cognizance of the action and. prosecution aforesaid, because, he says, that, on the 15th day of July in the year 1831,
he was, and still is, a resident in the Cherokee nation; and
that the said supposed crime or crimes, and each of them, were
committed, if committed at all, at the town of New Echota, in
the said Cherokee nation, out of the jurisdiction of this court,
and not in the county Gwinnett, or elsewhere, within the jurisdiction of this court: and this defendant saith, that he is a citizen
of the state of Vermont, one of the United States of America,
and that he entered the aforesaid Cherokee nation in the capacity of a duly authorised missionary of the American Board of
Commissioners for Foreign Missions, under the authority of
the pesident of the United States, ind has not since been required by him to leave it: that he was, atthe time of his arrest,
engaged in preaching the gospel to the Cherokee Indians, and
in translating the sacred scriptures into their language, with
the permission and approval of the said Cherokee nation, and
in accordance with the humane policy of the government of
the United States for the civilization and improvement of the
Indians; and that his residence there, for this purpose, is the
residence charged in the aforesaid indictment: and this defendant further saith, that this prosecution the state of Georgia ought
not to have or maintain, because, he saith, that several treaties
have, from time to time, been entered into between the United
States and the Cherokee nation of Indians,- to wit, at Hopewell, on the 28th day of November 1785; at Holston, on the
2d day of Jilly 1791; at Philadelphia, on the 26th day of June
1794; at Tellico, on the 2d day of October 1798; at Tellico,
on the 24th day of October 1804; at Tellico, on the 25th day
of October 1805; at Tellico, on the 27th (lay of October 1805;
at Washington city, on the 7th day of January 1805; at Washington city, on the 22d day of March 1816; at the Chickasaw
Council House, on the 14th day of September 1816; at the
Cherokee Agency on the 8th day of July 1817; and at Washington city,, on the 27th day of Pebruary 1819: all which
'treatids have been duly ratified by the senate of the United
States of America; and, by which treaties, the United States
of America awknowledge the said Cherokee nation to be a sovereign nation, authorised io govern themselves, and all persons- who have settled within their territory, free from any
right of legislative interference by the several states composing

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

the United States of America, in reference to acts done within
their own territory; and, by which treaties, the whole of the
territory now occcupied by the Cherokee nation, on the east
of the Mississippi, has been solemnly guarantied to them; all
of which treaties are existing treaties at this day, and in full
force. By these treaties, and particularly by the treaties of Hopewell and Holston, the aforesaid territory is acknowledged to
lie without the jurisdiction of the several states composing the
union of the United States; and, it is thereby specially stipulated, that the citizens of the United States shall not enter the
aforesaid territory, even on a visit, without a passport from
the governor of a state, or from some one duly authorised
thereto, by the president of the United States: all of which
will more fully and at large appear, by reference to the aforesaid treaties. And this defendant saith, that the several acts
charged in the bill of indictnent were done, or omitted to be
done, if at all, within the said territory so recognized as belonging to the said nation, and so, as aforesaid, held by them,
under the guarantee of the United States: that, for those acts,
the defendant is not amenable to the laws of Georgia, nor to
the jurisdiction of the courts of the said state; and that the
laws of the state of Georgia, which profess to add the said territory to the several adjacent counties of the said state, and to
extend the laws of Georgia over the said territory, and persons
inhabiting the same; and, in particular, the act on which this
indictment against this defendant is grounded, to wit, 'an act
entitled an act to prevent the exercise of assumed and arbitrary
Rlower, by all persons, under pretext of authority from the
Cherokee Indians, and their laws, and to prevent white persons from residing within that part of the chartered limits of
Georgia occupied by the Cherokee Indians, and to provide a
guard for the protection of the gold mines, and to enforce the
laws of the state within the aforesaid territory,' are repugnant
to the aforesaid treaties; which, according to the constitution
of the United States, compose a part of the supreme law of the
land; and that these laws of Georgia are, therefore, unconstitutional, void, and of no effect; that the said laws of Georgia are
also unconstitutional arid void, because they impair the obligation of the va:ious contracts formed by and between the aforesaid Cherokee nation and the said United States of America,

SUPREME COURT.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

as above recited: also, that the said laws of Georgia are unconstitutional and void, because they interfere with,,and attempt
to regulate and control the intercourse with the said Cherokee
nation, which, by the said constitution, belongs exclusively to
the congress of the United States; and because the said laws
are repugnant to the statute of the United States, passed on the
day of March 1802, entitled 'an act to regulate trade
and intercourse with the Indian tribes, and to preserve peace
on the frontiers:' and that, therefore, this court has no jurisdiction to cause this defendant to make further or other answer
to the said bill of indictment, or further to try and punish this
defendant for the said supposed offence or offences alleged in
the bill of indictment, or any of them: and, therefore, this defendant prays judgment whether he shall be held bound to
answer further to said indictment."
This plea was overruled by the court. And the prisoner,
being arraigned, plead not guilty. The jury found a verdict
against him, and the court sentenced him to hard labour, in
the penitentiary, for the term of four years.
By overruling this plea, the court decided that the matter it
contained was not a bar to the action. The plea, therefore,
must be examined, for the purpose of determining whether it
makes a case which brings the party within the provisions of
the twenty-fifth section of the "1act to establish the judicial
courts of the United States."
The plea avers, that the residence, charged in the indictment, was under the authority of the president of the United
States, and with the permission and approval of the Cherokee
nation. That the treaties, subsisting between the United
States and the Cherokees, acknowledge their right as a sovereign nation to govern themselves and all persons who have
settled within their territory, free from any right of legislative
interference by the several states composing the United States
of America. -That the act under which the prosecution was
instituted is repugnant to the said treaties, and is, therefore,
unconstitutional and void. That the said act is, also, unconstitutional; because it interferes with, ajd attempts to regulate
and control, the intercourse with the Cherokee nation, which
belongs, exclusively, to congress; and, because, also, it is repugpant to the statute of the United States, entitled "an act to

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

regulate trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes, and to
preserve peace on the frontiers."
Let the averments of this plea be compared with the twentyfifth section of the judicial act.
That section enumerates the cases in which the final judgment or decree of a state court may be revised in the supreme
court of the United States. These are, " where is drawn in
question the validity of a treaty, or statute of, or an authority
exercised under, the United States, and the decision is against
their validity; or where is drawn in question the validity of a
statute of, or an authority exercised under any state, on the
ground of their being repugnant to the constitution, treaties or
laws of the United States, and the decision is in favour of such
their validity; or where is drawn in question the cQnstruction
of any clause of the constitution, or of a treaty, or statute of,
or commission held under the United States, and the decision
is against the title, right, privilege or exemption, specially set
up or claimed by either party under such clause of the.said
constitution, treaty, statute or commission."
The indictment and plea in this case draw in question, we
think, the validity of the treaties ma-le by the-United States
with the Cherokee Indians; if not so, their construction is certainly drawn in question; and the decision has been, if not
against their validity, "against the right, privilege or exemption, specially set up and claimed under them." They also
draw into question the validity of a statute of the state of
Georgia, "on the ground of its being repugnant to the constitution, treaties and laws of the United States, and the decision
is in favour of its validity."
It is, then, we think, too clear for controversy, that the act
of congress, by which this court is constituted, has given it the
power, and of course imposed on it the- duty, of exercising
jurisdiction in this case. This duty, however unpleasant, cannot be avoided. Those who fill the judicial department have
no discretion in selecting the subjects to be brought before
them. We must examine the defence set up in this plea.
We must inquire and decide whether the act of the legislature
of Georgia, under which -the plaintiff in error has been prosecuted and condemned, be consistent with, or repugnant to, the
constitution, laws and treaties of the United States.

SUPREME COURT.
[Worcester v. The State of Ceorgia.]

It has, been said at the bar, that the acts of the legislature of
Georgia seize on the whole Cherokee country, parcel it out
.among the neighbouring counties of the state, extend her code
over the whole country, abolish its institutions and its laws,
and annihilate its. political existence.
If this be the general effect of the system, let us inquire into
the effect of the particular statute and section on which the
indictment is founded.
It enacts that "all white persons, residing within the limits
of the Cherokee nation on the 1st day of March next, or at
any time thereafter, without a license or permit from his excellency the governor, or from such agent as his excellency
the governor, shall authorise to grant such permit or license,
and who shall not have taken the oath hereinafter required,
shall be guilty of a high misdenieanour, and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished by confinement to the penitentiary,
at hard labour, for a term not less than four years."
The eleventh section authorises the governor, should he
deem it necessary for the protection of the mines, or the
enforcement of the laws in force within the Cherokee nation,
to raise and organize a guard," &e.
The thirteenth section enacts, "that the said guard or any
member of them, shall be, and they are hereby authorised and
empowered to arrest any person legally charged with or detected in a violation of the laws of this state, and to convey,
as soon as practicable, the person so arrested, before a justice
of the peace, judge of the superior, or justice of inferior court
of this state, to be dealt with according to law."
The extra-territorial power of every legislature being limited
in its action, to its own citizens or subjbcts, the very passage
of this act is an assertion of jurisdiction over the Cherokee
nation, and of the rights and powers consequent on jurisdiction.
The first step, then, in the inquiry, which the constitution
and laws impose on this court, is an examination of the tightfulness of this, claim.
America, separated from Europe by a wide ocean, was inhabited by a distinct people, divided into separate nations,
independent of each other and of the rest of the world, having
ihstitutions of their own, and governing themselves by their

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

own laws. It is difficult to comprehend the proposition, that
the inhabitants of either quarter of the globe could have rightful original -claims of dominion over the inhabitants of the
other, or over the lands they occupied; or that the discovery
of either by the other should give the discoverer rights in the
country discovered, which annulled the vre-eitisting rights of
its ancient possessors.
After lying concealed for a series of ages, the enterprise of
Europe, guided by nautical science, conducted some of her
adventurous sons into this western wofld. They found it in
possession of a people who had made small progress in agriculture or manufactures, and whose general employment was.
war, hunting, and fishing.
Did these adventurers, by sailing along the coast; and ocasionally landing on it, acquire for the several governments to
whom they belonged, or by whom they were commissioned, a
rightful property in the soil) from the Atlantic to the Pacific;
or rightful dominion over the numerous people who occupied
it? Or has nature, or the great Creator of all things, conferred
these rights over hunters and fishermen, on agriculturists and
manufacturers?
But power, war, conquest, give rights, which, after possess.
ion, are conceded by the world; ind which can never be controverted by those on whom they descend. We proceed,
then, to the actual state of things, having glanced at their origin; becduse holding it in our recollection might shed some
light on existing pretensions.
The great maritime powers of Europe discovered and visited
different parts of this continent at nearly the same time. The
object was too immense for any one of them to grasp the
whole; and the claimants were too powerful to submit to the
exclusive or unreasonable pretensions of any single potentate.
To avoid bloody conflicts, which mightterminate disastrously
to all, it was necessary for the nations of Europe to establish
some principle which all would acknowledge, and which should
decid'e their respective rights as between themselves. This
principle, stiggested by the actual state of things, was, "that
discovery gave title to the government by whose subjects or
by whose authority it was made, against all other European

SUPREME COURT.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

goverrments, which title might be consummated by possession." 8 Wheat. 573.
This principle, acknowledged by all Europeans, because it
was the interest of all to acknowledge it, gave to the nation
making the discovery, as its inevitable consequence, the sole
right of acquiring the soil and of making settlements on it. It
was an exclusive principle which shut out the right of competition among those who had agreed to it; not one which could
annul the previous rights of those who had not agreed to it. It
regulated the right given by discovery among the European
discoverers; but could not affect the rights of those already in
possession, either as aboriginal occupants, or as occupants by
virtue of a discovery made before the memory of man. It
gave the exclusive right to purchase, but did not found that
right on a denial of the right-of the possessor to sell.
The relation between the Europeans and the natives was
determined in each case by the particular government which
asserted and could maintain this pre-emptive privilege in the
particular place. The United States succeeded to all the claims
of Great Britain, both territorial and political; but no attempt,
so far as is known, has been made to enlarge them. So far as
they existed merely in theory, or were in their .nature only
exclusive of the claims of other European nations, they still
retain their original character, and remain dormant. So far
as .hey have been practically exerted, they exist in fact, are
understood by both parties, are asserted by the one,,and admitted by the other.
Soon after Great Britain determined on planting colonies in
America, the king graited charters to companies of his subjects who associated for the purpose of carrying the views of
the crown into effect, and of enriching themselves. The first
of these charters was made before possession was taken of any
part of the country. They purport, generally, to convey the
soil, from the Atlantic to the South Sea. This soil was occupied b' numerous and warlike nations, equally willing and
able to defend their possessions. The extravagant and absurd
idea, that the feeble settlements made on the sea coast, or the
companies under whom they were made, acquired legitimate
power by them to govern the people, or occupy the lands from

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Worces(er v. The State of Georgia.]

sea to sea, did not enter the mind of any malh. They were
well understood to convey the title which, according to the!
common law of European sovereigns respecting America,
they might rightfully convey, and no more. This was the
exclusive right of purchasing such lands as the natives were
willing to sell. The crown could not be understood to grant
what the crown did not affect to claim; nor was it so understood.
The power of making war is conferred by these charters on
the colonies, but defensive war alone seems to have been contemplated. In the first charter to the first and second colonies,
they are empowered, "for their several defences, to encounter, expulse, repel, and resist, all persons who shall, without
license," attempt to inhabit "within the said precincts and
limits of the said several colonies, or that shall enterprise or
attempt at any time hereafter the least detriment or annoyance
of the said several colonies or plantaiions."
The charter to Connecticut concludes a general power to
make defensive war with these terms: "and uponjust causes
to invade and destroy the natives or other enemies of the said
colony."
The same power, in the pame, words, is conferred on the
government of Rhode Island.
This power to repel invasion, and, upon just cause, to invade
and destroy the natives, authorizes offensive as well as defensive war, but only "on just cause." The very terms imply
the existence of a country to be invaded, and of an enemy who,
has given just cause of war.
The charter to William Penn contains the following recital:
"and because, in so remote a country, near so many barbarous
nations, the incursions, as well of the savages themselves, as of
other enemies, pirates, and robbers, may probably be feared,
therefore we have given," &c. The instrument then confers
the power of war.
These barbarous nations, whose incursions wer6 feared, and
to repel whose incursions the power to make war was given,
were burely not considered as the subjects of Penn, or occupying his lands during his pleasure.
The same clause is introduced into the charter to Lord Baltimore.
VoL. VI.-3 T

SUPREME COURT.
EWorcester v. The State of Georgia.]

The charter to Georgia professes to be granted for the charitable purpose of enabling poor subjects to gain a comfortable
subsistence by cultivating lands in the American provinces,
"at present waste and desolate." It recites: "and whereas
our provinces in North America have been frequently ravaged
by Indian enemies, more especially that of South Carolina,
which, in the late war by the neighbouring savages, was laid
waste by fire and sword, and great numbers of the English
inhabitants miserably massacred; and our loving stibjects, who
now, inhabit thee, by reason of the smallness of their numbers,
will, in case of any new war, be exposed to the like calamities,
inasmuch as- their whole southern frontier continueth unsettled.
and lieth open to the said savages."
These motives for planting the new colony are incompatible
with the lofty ideas of granting the soil, and all its inhabitants
from sea to sea. They demonstrate the truth, that these
grants asserted a title against Europeans only, and were considered as blank paper so far as the rights of the natives were
concerned. The power of war is given only for defence, not
for conquest.
The charters contain passages showing one of their objects
to be the civilization of the Indians, and their conversion to
Christianity-objects to be accomplished by conciliatory conduct and good example; not by extermination.
The actual state of things, and the practice of European nations, on so much of the American continent as lies between
the Mississippi and the Atlantic, explain their claims, and the
charters they granted. Their pretensions unavoidably interfered with each other; though the discovery of one was admitted by all to exclude the claim of any other, the extent of
that discovery was the subject of unceasing contest. Bloody
conflicts arose between them, which gave importance and security to the neighbouring- nations. Fierce and warlike in
their character, they might be formidable enemies, or effective friends. Instead of rousing their resentments, by asserting claims to their lands, or to dominion over their persons,
their alliance was sought by flattering professions, and purchased by rich presents. The English, the French, and the
Spaniards, were equally competitors for their friendship and
their aid. Not well acquainted with the exact meaning of

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

words, nor supposing it to be material whether they were
called the subjects, or the children of the'r father in Europe;
lavish in professions of duty and affection, in return for the
rich presents they received; so long as their uatup! independence was untouched, and their right to self overnment
acknowledged, they were willing to profess dependence on
the power which furnished supplies of which they were in absolute need, and restrained dangerous intruders from entering
their country: and this.was probably the sense in which the
term was understoodby them.
Certain it is, that our history furnishes no example, from
the first settlement of our country, of any attempt on the
part of the crown to interfere with the internal affairs of the
Indians, farther than to keep out the agents of foreign powers,
who, as traders or otherwise, might seduce them into foreign
alliances. The king purchased their lands when they were
willing to-sell, at a price they were willing to take; but never
coerced a surrender of them. He also purchased their alliance
and dependence by subsidies; but never intruded into the interior of their affairs, or interfered with their self government,
so far as respected themselves only.
The general views of Great Britain, with regard 'to the Indians, were detailed by Mr Stuart, superintendent of Indian
afairs, in a speech delivered at Mobile, in presence of several
persons of distinction, soon after the peace of 1763. Towards
the conclusion he says, "lastly, I inform y6u that it is the king's
order to all his governors and subjects, to treat Indians with
justice and humanity, and to forbear all encroachments on the
territories allotted to them; accordingly, all individuals are
prohibited from purchasing any of your lands; but, asyou know
that, as your white brethren cannot feed you when you visit
them unless you give them ground to plant, it is expected that
you will cede lands to the king for that purpose. But, whenever you shall be pleased to surrender any of your territories
to his majesty, it must be done, for the futhre, at a public
meeting of your nation, when the governors of the provinces,
or the superintendent shall be present, and obtain the consent
of all your people. The boundaries of your hunting grounds
will be accurately fixed, and no settlement permitted to be
made upon them. As you may be assured that all treaties

SUPREME COURT
[Worcester v. The StAto of Georgia.]

with your people will be faithfully kept, so it is expected that
you, also, will be careful strictly to observe them."
The proclamation issued by the king of Great Britain, in
1763, soon after the rAtification of the articles of peace, forbids
the governors of any of the colonies to grant warrants of survey, or pass patents upon any lands whatever, which, not having been ceded to, or purchased by, us (the king), as aforesaid,
are reserved to the said Indians, or any of them.
The proclamation proceeds: "and -we do further declare it
to be our royal will and pleasure, for the present, as aforesaid,
to reserve, under our sovereignty, protection, and dominion,
for the use of the said Indians, all the lands and territories
lying to the %'estward of the sources of the rivers which fall
into the sea, from the west and northwest as aforesaid: and we
do hereby strictly forbid, on pain of our displeasure, all our
loving subjects from making any purchases or settlements
whatever, or taking possession of any of the lands above reserved, without our special leave and license for that purpose
first obtained.
"And we do further strictly enjoin and require all persons
whatever, who have, either wilfully or inadvertently, seated
themselves upon any lands within the countries above described, or upon any other lands which, not having been ceded
to, or purchased by us, are still reserved to the said Indians, as
aforesaid, forthwith to remove themselves from such settlements."
A proclamation, issued by Governor Gage, in 1772, contains the following passage: "whereas many persons, contrary
to the positive orders of the king, upon this subject, have undertaken to make settlements beyond the boundaries fixed by
the treaties made with the Indian nations, which boundaries
ought to serve as a, barrier between the whites and the sad
nations; particularly on the Ouabache."
The proclamation
orders such persons to quit those countries without delay.
Such was the policy of Great Britain towards the Indian
nations inhabiting the territory from which she excluded all
other Etiropeans; such her claims, and such her practical exposition of the charters she had granted: she considered them
as nations capable of maintaining the relations of peace and
war; of governing themselves, under her protection; and she

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

made treaties with them, the obligation of which she acknowledged.
This was the settled state of things when the war of our
revolution commenced. The influence of our enemy was
established; hea resources enabled her to keep up that influence; and the colonists had much cause for the apprehension
that the Indian nations would, as the'allies of Great Britain,
add their arms to hers. This, as was to be expected, became
an object of great solicitude to congress. Far from advancing
a claim to their lands, or asserting any right of dominion over
them, congress resolved "that the securing and preserving
the friendship of the Indian nations appears to be a subjeot of
the utmost moment to these colonies."
The early journals of congress exhibit the most anxious desire to conciliate the Indian nations. Three Indian departments were established; and commissioners appointed in dach,
"to treat with the Indians in their respective departments, in
the name and on the behalf of the United Colonies, in order
to preserve peace and friendship with the said Indians, and to
prevent their taking gny part in-the present commotions."
The most strenuous exertions were made to procure those
supplies on which Indian friendships were supposed to depend;
and every thing which might excite hostility was avoided.
The first treaty was made with the Delawares, in September
1778.
The language of equality in which it is drawn, evinces thetemper with which the negotiation was undertaken, and the
opinion which then prevailed in the United States.
" 1. That all offences or acts of hostilities, by one or either of
the contracting parties against the other, be mutually forgiven,
and buried in the depth of oblivion, never 'more to be had in
remembrance.
"2. That a perpetual peace and friendship shall, from henceforth, take place and subsist between the contracting parties
aforesaid, through all succeeding generations:" and if either of
the parties areengaged in a just anat necessary war, withany
other nation or nations, that then each shall assist the other, in
due proportion to their abilities, till their enemies are brought
to reasonable terms of accornodatio," &c.
3. The third article stipulates, among other things, a free

SUPREME COURT.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

passage for the American troops through the Delaware nationand engages that they shall be furnished with provisions and
other necessaries at their value.
s' 4. Forthe better security of the peace and friendship now
entered into by the contracting parties against all 'infractions
of the same by the citizens of either party, to the prejudice of
the other, neither party shall proceed to the infliction of punishments on the citizens of the other, otherwise thar by securing the offender or offenders, by imprisonment, or any other
competent means, till a fair and impartial trial can be had by
judges or juries of both parties, as near as can be to the laws,
customs and usages of the contracting parties, and natural jus.
tice," &c.
5. The fifth article regulates the trade between the contracting parties, in a manner entirely equal.
6. The sixth article is entitled to peculiar attention, as it
contains a disclaimer of designs which were, at that time, ascribed to the United Sta es, by their enemies, and from the
imputation of which congress was then peculiarly anxious to
free the government. It is in these words: "Whereas the
enemies of the United States have endeavoured, by every artifree in their power, to possess the Indians in general with an
opinion that it is the design of the states aforesaid to extirpate
the Indians, and take possession of their country: to obviate
such false suggestion the United States do engage to guaranty
to the aforesaid 'nation of Delawares, and their heirs, all their
territorial rights, in the fullest and most ample manner, as it
bath been bounded by former treaties, as long as the said Delaware nation shall abide by, and hold fast the chain of friendship now entered into."
The parties further agree, that other tribes, friendly to the
interest of the United States, may be invited to form a state,
whereof the Delaware nation shall be the heads, and have a
representation in congress.
This treaty, in its language, and in its provisions, is formed,
as near as may be, on the model of treaties between the crowned heads of Europe.
. The sixth article shows bow congress then treated the injurious calumny of cherishing designs unfriendly to the political
and civil rights of the Indians.

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

During the war of the revolution, the Cherokees took part
with the British. After its terminafion, .the United States,
though desirous of peace, did not feel its necessity so -t.-ngly
as while the war continued. Their political situatioa be;;.0
changed, they might very well think it advisable to assume a
higher tone, and to impress on the Cherokees the same respect
for congress which was before felt for the king of Great Britain.
This may aceount for the language of the treaty of Hopewell.
There is the more reason for supposing that the Cherokee
chiefs were not very critical judges of the language, from the
fact that every one makes his mark; no chief was capable of
signing his name. It is probable the treaty was interpreted to
them.
The. treaty is introduced with the declaration, that "the
commissioners plenipotentiary of the United States give peace
to all the Cherokees, and receive them into the favour and
protection of the United States of America, on the following
conditions."
When the United States gave peace, did they not also receive
it? Were not both parties desirous of it? If we consult the
history of the day, does it not inform us that the United States
were at least as anxious to obtain it as the Cherokees? We
may ask, further: did the Cherokees come to the.seat of the
American government to solicit peace; or, did the American
commissioners go to them to obtain it? The treaty was made
at Hopewell, not at New York. The word "give," then,
has -no real importance attached t0 it,
The first and second articles stipulate for the mutual restoration of prisoners, and are of course equal.
IThe third article acknowledges the Cherokees to be under
the protection of the United States of America, and of no other
power.
This stipulation is found in Indian treatieS, generally. It
was introduced into their treaties with Great Britain; and may
probably be found in those with other European powers. Its
origin may be traced to the nature of their connexion with
those powers; and its true meaning is discerned in their relative situation.
The general law of European sovereigns, respecting their
claims in America, limited the intercourse of Indians, in a

SUPREME COURT.
[Worcester v. The State of Gporgia.]

great degree, to the particular potentate whose ultimate right
of domain was acknowledged by the others. This was the
general state of things in time of peace. It was sometimes
changed in war. The consequence was, that their supplies
were derived chiefly from that nation, and their trade confined
to it. Goods, indispensable to their comfort, in the shape of
presents, were received from the same hand. What was of
still more importance, tie strong hand of government was
interposed to restrain the disorderly and licentious from intrusions into their country, from encroachments on their lands,
and from those acts of violence which were often attended by
reciprocal murder. The Indians perceived in this protection
only what was beneficial to themselves-an engagement to
punish aggressions on them. It involved, practically, no claim
to their lands, no dominion over their persons. It merely
bound the nation to the British crown, as a dependent ally,
claiming the protection of a powerful friend and neighbour,
and receiving the advantages of that protection, without involving a suriender of their national character.
This is the true meaning of the stipulation, and is undoubtedly the sense in which it was made. Neither the British
government, nor the Cherokees, ever understood it otherwise.
The same stipulation entere'd into with the United Statcs, is
undoubtedly to be construed in the same manner. They receive the Cherokee nation into their favour and protectioi.
The Cherbkees acknowledge themselves to be under the protectiou of the United States, and of no other power. Protection does not imply the destrtiction of the protected. The
manner in which this stipulation was understood by the American government, is explained by the language and acts of our
first president.
The fourth article draws the bound&ry between the Indians
ahd the citizens of the United States. But, in describing this
boundary, the term "allotted" and the term." hunting ground'
are used.
Is it reasonable to suppose, that the Indians, who could not
write, and most probably could not read, who certainly were
not critical judges of our language, should distinguish the word
"allotted" from the words "marked out." The actual subject of contract was the .divid-*ng line between the two nitions;

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

and their attention may very well be supposed to have been
confined to that subject. When, in fact,, they were ceding
lands to the United States, and describing the extent of their
cession, it may very well be supposed that they might not understand the term employed, as indicating that, instead of
granting, they were receiving lands. If the term would admit
of no other signification, which is not conceded, its being misderstood is so apparent, results so necessarily from the whole
transaction; that it must, we think, be taken in the sense in
which it was most obviously used.
So with respecZ to the words "hunting grounds." HuHting
was at that time the principal occupation of the Indians, and
their land was mere used for that purpose than for any other.
It could not,, however, be supposed, that any intention exibted
of restricting the full use of the lands they reserved.
To the United States, it could be. a matter of no concern,
whether their whole territory was devoted to hunting grounds,
or whether an occasional village, and an occasional corn field,
interrupted, and gave some variety to the scene.
These terms had been used in their treaties with Great Britain, and had never been misunderstood. They had never
been supposed to imply a right in the British government to
take their lands, or to interfere with their internal government.
The fifth article withdraws the protection of the United
States from any citizen who has settled, or shall settle, on the
lands allotted to the Indians, for their hunting grounds; and
stipulates that, if he shall not remove within six months the
Indians may punish him.
The sixth and seventh articles stipulate for the punishment
of the citizens of either country, who may commit offences on
or bgainst the citizens of the other. trhe only inference to be
drawn from them is, that the United States considered the
Cherokees as a nation.
The ninth article is in these words: "for the benefit and
comfort of the Indians, and for the prevention of injuries or
oppressions on the part of the citizens or Indians, the United
States, in congress assembled, shall have the sole and exclusive
right of regulating the trade with the Indians, and managing
all their affairs, as they think proper."
To construe the expression "managing all their affairs,"
VOL. VI.-S U

SUPREME COURT.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

into a surrender of self-government, would be, we think, a
perversiori of their necessary meaning, and a departure from
the construction which has been uniformly put on them. The
great subject of the article is the Indian trade. The influence
it gave, made it desirable that congress should possess it. The
commissioners brought forward the claim, with the profession
that their motive was "the benefit and comfort of the Indians,
and the prevention of injuries or oppressions."
This may be
true, as respects the regulation of their trade, and as respects
the regulation of all affairs connected with their trade, but cannot be true, as respects the management of all their affairs.
The most important of these, are the cession of their lands, and
ecurity against intruders on them. Is it credible, that they
shoula hgve considered themselves as surrendering to the
United States the right to dictate their future cessions, and the
terms on which they should be made? or to compel their submission to the violence of disorderly and likentious intruders ?
It is equally inconceivable that they could have supposed
themselves, by a phrase thus slipped into an article, on another
and most interesting subject, to have divested themselves of
the right of self-government on subjects not connected with
trade. Such a measure could not be "for their benefit and
comfort," or for "the prevention of injuries and oppression."
Such a construction would be inconsistent with the spirit of
this and of all subsequent, treaties; especially of those articles
which recognise the right of the Cherokees to declare hostilities, and to make war. It would convert a treaty of peace
covertly into an act, annihilating the political existence of one
of the' parties. ,Had such a result been intended it would
have been openly avowed.
This treaty contains a few terms capable of being used in a
sense which could not have been intended at the time, and
which is inconsistent with the practical construction which has
always been put on them; but its essential articles treat the
Cherokees as a nation capable of maintaining the relations of
peace and war; and ascertain the boundaries between them and
the United States.
The treaty of Hopewell seems not to have established a solid
peace. To accommodate the differences still existing between
the state of Georgia and the Cherokee nation, the treaty of

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

Holston was negotiated in July 1791. The existing constitution of the United States had been then adopted, and the government, having more intrlnsic capacity to enforce its just
claims, was perhaps less mindful of high sounding expressions,
denoting superiority. We hear no more of giving peace to
the Cherokees. The mutual desire of establishing permanent
peace and friendship, and of removing all causes of war, is
honestly avowed, and, in pursuance of this desire, the first article declares, that there shall be perpetual peace and friendship between all the citizens of the United States of America,
and all the individuals composing the Cherokee nation.
The second article repeats the important acknowledgement,
that the CherokeP nation is under the protection of the United
States of America, and of no other sovereign whosoever.
The meaning of this has been already explained. The Indian nations were, from their situation, necessarily dependent
on some foreign potentate for the supply of their essential
wants, and for their protection from lawless and injurious intrusions into their country. That power was naturally termed
their protector. They had been arranged under the protection
of Great Britain: 4at the extinguishment of the British power
in their neighbourhood, and the establishment of that of the
United States in its place, led naturally to the declaration, on
the part of the Cherokees, that they were under the protection
of the United States, and of no other power. They assumed
the relation with the United States, which had before subsisted
with Great Britain.
This relation was that of a nation clainiing and receiving the
protection of one more powerful: not that of individuals abandoning their national character, and submitting as subjects to
the laws of a master.
The third article contains a perfectly equal stipulation for
the surrender of prisoners.
The fourth article declares, that "the boundary between
the United States and the Cherokee nation shall be as follows:
beginning," &c. We hear no more of "*allotments" or of
"hunting grounds." A boundary is described, between nation
and nation, by mutual consent. The national character of each;
the ability of each to establish this boundary, is acknowledged
by the 6ther. To preclude for ever all disputes, it is agreed

SUPREME COURT.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.)

that it shall be plainly marked by commissioners, to be appointed by each party; and, in order to extinguish for ever all
claim of the Cherokees to the ceded lands, an additional consideration is to be paid by the United States. For this additional consideration the Cherokees release all right to the ceded
.land, for ever.
By the fifth article, the Cherokees allow the United States
a road through their country, and the navigation of the Tennessee river. The acceptance of thesp cessions is an acknowledgement of the right of the Cherokees to make or withhold
them.
By the sixth article, it is agreed, on the part of the Cherokees, that the United States shall have the sole and exclusive,
right of regulating their trade. No claim is made to the management of all their affairs.
This stipulation has already
been explained. The observation may be repeated, that the
stipulation is itself an admission of their right to make or refuse it.
By the seventh article the United States solemnly guaranty
to the Cherokee nation all their lands not hereby ceded.
The eighth article relinquishes to the Cherokees any citizens of the United States who may settle on their lands; and
the ninth forbids any citizen of the United States to hunt on
theie lands, or to enter their country without a passport.
The remaining articles are equal, and contain stipulations
which could be made only with a nation admitted to be capable of governing itself.
This treaty, thus explicitly recognizing the national character of the Cherokees, and their right of self government; thus
guarantying their lands; assuming the duty of protection, and
of course pledging the faith of the United States for that protection; has been frequently renewed, and is now in full force.
To the general pledge of protection have been added several specific pledges, deemed valuable by the Indians. Some
of these restrain the citizens of the United States from encroachments on the Cherokee country, and provide for thp
punishment of intruders.
From the commencement of our government, congress has
passed acts to regulate trade and intercourse with the Indians;
which treat them as nations, respect their rights, and manifest

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

a firm purpose to afford that protection which treaties stipulate.
All these acts, and especially that of 1802, which is still in
force, manifestly consider the several Indian nation as distinct
political communities, having territorial boundaries, within
which their authority is exclusive, and having a right to all
the lands within those boundaries, which is not only acknowledged, but guarantied by the United States.
In 1S19, congress passed an act for promoting those humane
designs of civilizing the neighbouring Indians, which had long
been cherished by the executive. If enacts, "that, for the
purpose of providing against the further decline and final extinction of the Indian tribes adjoining to the frontier settlements
of the United States, and for introducing among them the
habits and arts of civilization, the president of !he United
States shall be, and he is hereby authorized, in every case
where he shall judge improvement in the habits and condition
of such Indians practicable, and that the means of instruction
can be introducedd with thei, own consent, to employ capable
persons, of good moral character, to instruct them in the mode
of agriculture suited to their situation; and for teaching their
children in reading, writing and arithmetic; and for performing such other duties as may be enjoined, according to such
instructions and rules as the president may give and prescribe
for the regulation of their conduct in the discharge of their
duties."
This act avowedly contemplates the preservation of the Indian nations as an object sought by the United States, and
proposes to effect this object by civilizing and converting them
from hunters into agriculturists. Though the Cherokees had
already made considerable progress in this improvement, it
cannot be doubted that the general words of the act comprehend them. Their advance in the "habits and arts of civilization," lather encouraged perseverance in the laudable exertions still farther to meliorate their condition. This act
furnishes strong additional evidence of a settled purpose to fix
the Indians in their country by giving them security at home.
The treaties and laws of the United States contemplate the,
Indian teritory as completely separated from that of the
states; and provide that all intercourse with them shall be
carried on exclusively by the governmant of the urion.

SUPREME COURT.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

Is this the rightful exercise of power, or is it usurpation?
While these states were colonies, this power, in its utmost
extent, was admitted to reside in the crown. When our
revolutionary struggle commenced, congress was composed of
an assemblage of deputies acting under specific powers granted
by the legislatures, or conventions of the several colonies. It
was a great popular movement, not perfectly organized; nor
were the respective powers of those who were entrusted with
the management of affairs accurately defined. The necessities
Qf our situation produced a general conviction that those measures which concerned all, must be transacted by a body in
which the representatives of all were assembled, and which
could command the confidence of all: congress, therefore, was
considered as invested with all the powei: of war and peace,
and congress dissolved our connexion with the mother country,
and declared these United Colonies to be independent states.
Without any written definition of powers, they employed
diplomatic agents to represent the United States at the seyeral
courts of Europe; offered to negotiate treaties with them, and
did actually negotiate treaties With France. From the same
necessity, and on the same principles, congress assumed the
management of Indian affairs; first in the name of these United
Colonies; and, afterwards, in the name of the United States.
Early attempts were made at negotiation, and to regulate trade
with them. These notproving successful, war was carried on
under the direction, and with the forces of the United States,
and the efforts to make peace, by treaty, were earnest and incessant. The confederation found congress in the exercise of
the same powers of peace and war, in our relations with
Indian nations, as with those of Europe.
Such was the state of things when the confederation was
adopted. That instrument surrendered the powers of peace and
war to congress, and prohibited them to the states, respectively,
unless a state be actually invaded, " or shall have received certain advice of a resolution being forrfed by some nation-of Indians to invade such state, and the danger is so imminent as not
to admit of delay till the United States in congress assembled
can be consulted." This instrumeni also gave the United States
in congress assembled the sole and exclusive right of" regulating the trade and managing all the affairs with the Indians, not

'JANUARY TERM 1832.
EWorcester v. The State of Georgia.]

members of any of the states: provided, that the legislative
power of any state within its own limits be not infringed or
violated."
The ambiguous phrases which follow the grant of power to
the United States, were so construed by-'the states of North
Carolina and Georgia as to annul the power itself. The discontents and confusion resulting from these conflicting claims,
produced representations to congress, which were referred to
a committee, who mdde their report in 1787. The report
does nQt assent to the construction of fhe two states, but recommends an accommodation, by lilieral cessions of territory,
or by an admission, on their part, of the powers claimed by
congress. The correcd exposition of this article is rendered
unnecessary by the adoption of our existing ronstitution.
That instrument confers on congress the powers of war and
peace; of making treaties, and of regulating commerce with
foreign nations, and among the several states, and with the
Indian tribes. These powers comprehend all that is i'equired
for the regulation of our intercourse with the Indians. They
are not limited by any restrictions on their free actions. The
shackles imposed on this power, in the confederation, are discarded.
The Indian nations had always been considered as distinct,
independent political communities, 'retaining their.,original
natural rights, as the undisputed possessors of the soil, from
time immemorial, with the single exception of that imposed
by irresistible power, which excluded them from intercourse
with any other European potentate than the first discoverer of
the coast of the particular region claimed: and this. was a
restriction which those European potentates imposed on themselves, as well as on the Indians. The very term 9nation,"
so generally applied to them, means "ca people distinct from
others."
The constitution, by declaring treaties already
made, as well as those to be made, to be the supreme law of
the land, has adopted and sanctioned the previous treaties with
the Indian nations, and consequently admits their rank among
those powets who are capable of making treaties. The words
"treaty" and cnation" are words of our own language, selected
in our diplomatic and legislative proceedings, by ourselves,
having each a definite and well understood meaning. We

SUPREME COURT.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

have applied them to Indians, as we have applied them to the
other nations of the earth. They are applied to all in the
same sense.
Georgia, herself, has furnished conclusive evidence that her
former opinions on this subject concurred with those entertained by her sister states, and by the government of the
United States. Various acts of her legislature have been
cited in the argument, including the contract of cession made
in the year 1802, all tending to prove her acquiescence in the'
universal conviction that the Indian nations possessed a full
right to the lands they occupied, until that right should be
extinguished by the United States, with their consent: that
their territory was separated from that of any state within
whose chartered limits they might reside, by a boundary line,
established by treaties: that, within their boundary, they
possessed rights with which no state could interfere: and that
the whole power of regulating the intercourse with them, was
vested in the United States. A review of these acts, on the
part of Georgia, Would occupy too much time, and is the
less necessary, because they have beeui accurately detailed in
the argument at the bar. Her new series of laws, manifesting
her abandonment of these opinions, appears to have commenced in December 1828.
In opposition to this original right, possessed by the .undisputed occupants of every country; to this recognition of that
right, which is evidenced by our history, in every change
through which we have passed; is placed the charters granted
by the monarch of a distant and distinct region, parcelling out
a territory in possession of others whom he could not remove
and did not attempt to remove, and the cession made of his
claims by the treaty of peace.
The actual state of things at the time, and all history sine,
expliin these charters; and the king of Great Britain, at the
treaty of peace, could cede only what belonged to his crown.
These newly asserted titles can derive no aid from the articles
so often repeated in Indian treaties; extending to them, first,
the protection of Great Britain, and afterwards that of the
United States. These articles are associated with others, recognizing their title to self government. The very fact of
repeated treaties with them recognizes it; and the settled doc-

JANUARY TERM 1832.
.[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

trine of the law of nations is,that a weaker power does not
surrender its independence-its right to self government, by
associating With a stronger, and taking its protection. A weak
state, in order to provide for its safety, may place itself under
the protection of one more powerful, without stripping itself
of the right of government, and ceasing to be a state. Examples of this kind are not wanting in Europe, "Tributary and
feudatory states," says Vattel, "do not thereby cease to be
sovereig? and independent states, so long as self government
and sovereign and independent authority are leftin ihe administration of the state." At the present day, more than one
state may be considered as holding its right of self government under the guarantee and protection of one or more allies.
The Cherokee nation, then, is a distinct community occupying its own territory, with boundaries accurately described,
in which the laws of Georgia can have no force, and which
the citizens of Georgia have no right to enter, but with the
assent of the Cherokees themselves, or in conformity with
treaties, and.with the acts of congress. Thd whole intercourse between the United States and this nation, is, by our
constitution and laws, vested in the government of the United
States.
The act of the state of Georgia, under which the plaintiff in
error was prosecuted, is consequently void, and the judgrient
a nullity. Can this court revise, and reverse it?
If the objection to the system of legislation, lately adopted
by the legislature of Georgia, in relation to the Cherokee nation, was confined to its extra-territorial operation, the objection, though complete,,so far as respected mere right, would
give this court no power over the subject. But it goes much
further. If the review which has been taken be correct, and
we think it is, the acts of Georgia are repugnant to the constitution, laws, and treaties of the United States.
They interfere forcibly with the relations established between the United States and the Cherokee nation, the regulation of which, according to the settled principles of our constitution, are committed exclusively to the government of the
union.
They are in direct hostility with treaties, repeated in a.succession of years, which mark out the boundary that separates
VOL. VI.-3 V

SUPREME COURT.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

the Cherokee country from Georgia; guaranty to them all the'
land within their boundary; solemnly pledge the faith of the
United States to restrain their citizens from trespassing on
it; and recognize the pre-existing power of the nation to govern
itself.
They are in equal hostility with the acts of congress for
regulating this intercourse, and giving effect to the treaties.
The forcible seizure and abduction of the plaintiff in error,
who was residing in the nation with its permission, and by
authority of the president of the United States, is also a violation of the acts which authorise the chief magistrate to exercise
this authority.
Will these powerful considerations avail the plaintiff in error?
We think they will. He was seized, and forcibly carried
away, while under guardianship of treaties guarantying the
cduntry in which he resided, and taking it under the protection of the United States. He was seized while performing,
under the sanction of the chief magistrate of the union, those
d6ties which the humane policy adopted by congress had recommended. He was apprehended, tried, and condemned,
under colour of a law which has been shown to be repugnant to
the constitution, laws, and treaties of the United States. Had
a judgment, Jiable to the same objections, been rendered for
property, none would question the jurisdiction of this court.
It cannot be less clear when the judgment affects personal
liberty, and inflicts disgraceful punishment, if punishment
could disgrace when inflicted on innocence. The plaintiff in
error is not'less interested in the operation of this unconstitutional law than if it affected his property. He is not less entitled to the protection of the constitution, laws, and treaties of
his country.
This point has been elaborately argued and, after deliberate
cQnsideration, decided, in the case of Cohens v. The Commonwealth of Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264.
It is the opinion of this court that the judgment of the superior court for the county of Gwinnett, in the state of Georgia, condemning Samuel A. Worcester to hard labour, in the
penitentiary of the state of Georgia, for four years, was pronounced by that court under colour of a law which is void, as
being repugnant to the constitution, treaties, and laws of the

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

United States, and ought, therefore, to be reversed and annulled.
Mr Justice M'LEAN.
As this case involves principles of the highest importance,
and may lead to consequences which shall have an enduring
influence on the institutions of this country; and as there are
some points in the case on which I wish to state, distinctly,
my opinion, I embrace the privilege of doing so.
With the decision, just given, I concur.
The plaintiff in error was indicted under a law of Georgia,
" for residing in that part of the Cherokee nation attached, by
the laws of said state, to the county of Gwinnett, without a
license or permit from his excellency the governor of the state,
or from any agent authorised by his excellency the governor
to grant such permit or license, and without having taken the
oath to support and defend the constitution and laws of the
state of Georgia, and uprightly to demean himself as a citizen
thereof."
On this indictment the defendant was arrested, and, on being
arraigned before the superior court for Gwinnett county, he
filed, in substance, the following plea:
He admits that, on the 15th of July 1831, he was, and still
continued to be, a resident in the Cherokee nation, and that
the crime, if any were committed, was committed at the town
of New Echota, in said nation, out of the jurisdiction of the
court. That he is a citizen of Vermont, and that he entered
the Indian country in the capacity of a duly authorised missionary of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign
Missions, under the authority of the president of the United
States, and has not since been required by him to leave it. That
he was, at the time of his arrest, engaged in preaching the
gospel to the Cherokee Indians, and in translating the sacred
Scriptures into their language, with the permission and approval of the Cherokee nation, and in accordance with the
humane policy of the government of the United States, for the
improvement of the Indians.
He then states, as a bar to the prosecution, certain treaties
made between the United States and the Cherokee Indians, by

SUPREME COURT.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

which the possession of the territory they now inhabit was
solemnly guarantied to them; and also a certain act of congress, passed in March 1802, entitled "aa act to regulate trade
and intercourse with the Indian tribes." He also alleges, that
this subject, by the constitution of the United States, is exclusively vested in congress; and that the law of Georgia, being
repugnant to the constitution of the United States, to the treaties referred to, and to the act of congress specified, is void,
and cannot be enforced against him..
This plea was overruled by the court, and the defendant
pleaded not guilty.
The jury returned a verdict of guilty; and the defendant was
sentenced, by the court, to be kept in close custody, by the
sheriff of the county, until he could be transported to the penitentiary of the state, and the keeper thereof was directed to
receive, him into custody, and keep him at hard labour in the
penitentiary, during the term of four years.
Another individual was included in the same indictment,
and joined In the plea to the jurisdiction of the court, and was
also included in the sentence; but his name is not adverted to,
because the principles of the case are fully presented in the
above statement.
To reverse this judgment, a writ of error Was obtained,
which, having been returned, with the record of the proceedings, is now before this court.
The first question which it becomes necessary to examine,
is, whether the record has been duly certified, so as to bring
the proceedings regularly before this tribunal.
A writ of error was allowed, in this case, by one of the
justices of this court, and the requisite security taken. A
citation was also issued, in the form prescribed, to the state of
Georgia, a true copy of which, as appears by the oath of William Patten, was delivered to the governor, on the 24th day
of November last; and another true copy was delivered, on
the 22d day of the same month, to the attorney-general of the
state.
The record was returned by the clerk, under the seal of the
court, who certifies that it is a full and complete exemplifica.tion of the proceedings and judgment bad in the case; and he

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

further certifies, that the original bond, and a copy of the writ
of error, were duly deposited and filed in the clerk's office of
said court, on the 10th day of November last.
Is it necessary, in such a case, that the record should be certified by the judge who held the court?
In the case of Martin v. Hunter's Lessee, which was a writ
of error to the .court of appeals of Virginia, it was objected
that the return to the writ of error was defective, because the
record was not so certified; but the court, in that case, said,
"the forms of process, and the modes of proceeding in the
exercise of jurisdiction, are, with few exceptions, left- by the
legislature to be regulated and changed as this court may, in its
discretion, deem expedient." By a rule of this court, "4the
return of a copy of a record of the proper court, annexed to the
writ of error, is declared to be a sufficient compliance with the
mandate of the writ. The record, in this case, is duly certified by the clerk of the court of appeals, and annexed to the
writ of error. The objection, therefore, which has.been urged
to the sufficiency of the return, cannot prevail. "-1 Wheat.
304.
In 9 Wheat. 526, in the case of Stewart v. Ingle and others,
which was a writ of error to the circuit court for the district
of Columbia, a certiorari *as issued, upon a suggestion of diminution in the record, which was returned by the clirk with
another record; whereupon, a motion was made for a new certiorari, on the ground that the return ought to have been made
by the judge of the court below, and not by the clerk; The
writ of certiorari, it is known, like the writ of error, is, directed to the court.
Mr Justice Washington, after consultation with the judges,
stated that, according to the rules and practice of the court, a
return made by the clerk was a sufficient return.
To ascertain what has been the general course of practice on
this subject, an examination has been made into the manner
in which records have been certified from state courts to this
court; and it appears that, in the year 1817, six causes were
certified, in obedience to writs of error, by the clerk, under
the seal of the court. In the year 1819, two were so certified, one of them being the case of M'Cullough v. The State of
Maryland.

SUPREME COURT.
tWorcester v. The State of Georgia.]

In the year 1821, three cases were so certified; and in the
year 1823, there was one. In 1827, there were five, and in
the ensuing year, seven.
In the year 1830, there were eight causes so certified, in
five of which, a state was a party on the record. There were
three causes thus certified in the year 1831, and five in the
present year.
During the above periods, there were only fifteen catses
from state courts, where the records were certified by the
court or the presiding judge, and one of these was the case of
Cohens v. The State of Virginia.
This court ad6pted the following rule on this subject
in
1797:
cc It is ordered by the court, that the clerk of the court to
which any writ of error shall be directed, may make the return of the same, by transmitting a true copy of the record,
and of all proceedings in t ie cause, under his hand, and the
seal of the court."
The power of the court to adopt this rule, cannot be questioned: and it seems to have regulated the practice ever since
its adoption. In some cases, the certificate of the court, or the
presiding judge, has been affixed to the record; but this court
has decided, 'where the question has been raised, that such
certificate is unnecessary.
So far as the authentication t)f the record is concerned, it is
impossible to make a distinction between a civil and a criminal
case. What may be sufficient to authenticate the proceedings
in a civil case, must be equally so in a criminal one. The
verity of the record is of as much importance in the one case
as the other.
This is a question of practice; and it would seem that, if any
one point in the practice of this court can be considered as settled, this one must be so considered.
In the progress of the investigation, the next inquiry which
seems naturally to arise, is, whether this is a case in Which a
writ of error may be issued.
By the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act of 1789, it
is provided, "that a final judgment or decree in any suit in the
highest court of law or equity of a state, in which a decision
in the suit could be had, where is drawn in question the valid-

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

ity of a treaty, or statute of, or an authority exercised under.
the United States, and the decision is against their validity;
or where is drawn in question the validity of a statute of, or
an authority exercised under, any state, on the ground of thii
being repugnant to the constitution, treaties, or laws, of the
United States, and the decision is in favour of such their -alidity; or where is drawn in question the construction of any
clause of the constitution, or of a treaty or statute of, or commission held under, the United States, and the decision is
against the title, right, privilege, or exemption, specially set
up or claimed by either party, under such clause of the said
constitution, treaty, statu t e, or commission, may be re-examined, and reversed or affirmed, in the supreme court of the
United States."
Doubts have been expressed whether a writ of error to a
state court is not limited to civil cases. These doubts could
not have arisen from reading the above section. Is not a cri.
minal case, as much a suit as a civil case. What is a suit, but
a prosecution; and can any one suppose that it was the intention of congress, in using the word suit, to make a distinction
between a civil prosecution and a criminal one.
It is more important that jurisdiction should be given to this
court in criminal than in civil cases, under the twenty-fifth
section of the judiciary. act. Would it n~t be inconsistent,
both with the spirit and letter of this law, to revise the judgment of a state court, in a matter of controversy respecting
damages, where the decision is against a right asserted under
the constitution or a law of the United States; but to deny the
jurisdiction, in a case where the property, the character, the
liberty and life of a citizen may be destroyed, thoigh protected
by the solemn guarantees of the constitution?
But this is not an open question; it has long since been setfled by the solemn adjudications of this court. The above
construction, therefore, is sustained both on principle and authority. The provisions of the section apply as well to criminal as to civil cases, where the constitution, treaties, or laws
of the United States come in conflict with the laws of a state;
and the latter is sustained by the decision of the court.
It has been said, that this court can have no power to arrest

56S

SUPREME COURT.
[Worcester v.-Thb State of Georgia-]

the proceedings of a state tribunal in the enforcement of the
criminal laws of the state. This is undoubtedly true, so long
as a state court, in the execution of its penal laws, shall not infringe upon the constitution of the United States, or some
treaty or law of the union.
Suppose a state should make it penal for an officer of the
United States to discharge his duties within its jurisdiction;
as, for instance, a land officer, an officer of the customs, or a
postmaster, and punish the offender by confinement in the
penitentiary: could not the supreme court of the United
States interpose their power, and arrest or reverse the state
proceedings? Cases of this kind are go palpable, that they
need only to be stated 'to gain the assent of every judicious
mind. And would not this be an interference with the administration of-the criminal laws of a state ?
This court "have repeatedly decided, that they have no appellate jurisdiction in criminal cases from the circuit courts of
the United States: writs of error and appeals are given, from
those courts only in civil cases. But, even in those courts,
where the judges Are d 7ided on any point, in a criminal case,
the point may be brought before thi%court, under a general
provision in cases of division of opinion.
Jurisdiction is taken in the case' under consideration exclusively by the provisions of the twenty-fifth section of the law
which has been quoted. These provisions, as has been remarked, apply, indiscriminately, to criminal and civil cases,
wherever a right is claimed under the constitution, treaties, or
laws of the United States, and the decision, by the state court,
is against such right. In the present case, the decision was
against the right expressly set up by the defendant, and it was
made by the highest judicial tribunal of Georgia.
To give jurisdiction in such a case, this court need look no
further than to ascertain whether the right, thus asserted, was
decided against by the state court. The case is clear of difficulty on this point.
The name of the state of Georgia is used in this xcase, because such was the designation given to the cause in the state
court. No one ever supposed, that the state, in its sovereign
capacity, in such a case, is a party to the cause. The form of

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Worcester v: The State of Georgia.]

the prosecution here must be the same as it was in the state
court; but so far as the name of the state is used, it is matter
of form. Under a rule of this court, notice was given to
the governor cnd attorney-general of the state, because it is
a part of their duty to see that the laws -of the state are executed.
In prosecutions for violations of the penal laws of the union,
the name of the United States is used in the same manner.
Whether the prosecution be under a federal or state law, the
defendant has a right to question the constitutionality of the.
law.
Can any doubt exist as to the power of congress to pass the
law, under ivhich jurisdiction is taken in this case ? Since its
passage, in 1789, it has been the law of the land; and has been
sanctioned by an uninterrupted course of decisions in this court,
and acquiesced in by the state tribunals, with perhaps a solitary exception: and whenever the attention of the national
legislature has been called to the subject, their sanction has
been given to the law by so large a majority as to approach
almost to unanimity.
Of the policy of this act there can be as little doubt as of the
right of congress to pass it.
The constitution of the United States was formed, not, in
my opinion, as some have contended, by the people of the
United States, nor, as others, by the states; but by a combined
power, exercised by the people, through their delegates, limited in their sanctions, to the respective states.
Had the constitution emanated from the people, and the
states had been referred to, merely as convenient districts, by
which the public expression could be ascertained, the popular
vote throughout the union would have been the only rule for
the adoption of the constitution. This course was not pursued;
and in this fact, it clearly appears that our fundamental law
was not formed, exclusively, by the popular suffraze of the
people.
The vote of the people was limited to the respective states
in which they resided. So that it appears there was an expression of popular suffrage and state sanction, most happily
united, in the adoption of the constitution of the union.
Whatever differences of opinion may exist, as to the means
VOL. VI.-3 W

SUPREME COURT.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

by which the constitution was adopted, there would seem to be
no ground for any difference as to certain powers conferred
by it.
Three co-ordinate branches of the government were established; the execptive, legislative, and judicial. These branches
are essential to the existence of any free'.government, and that
they should possess powers, in their respective spheres, coextensive with each other.
If the executive have not powers which will enable him to
execute the functions of his office, the system is essentially
defective; as those duties must, in such case, be discharged by
one of the other branches. This would destroy that balance
which is admitted to be essential to the existence of free government, by the wisest and most enlightened statesmen of the
present day.
It is not less important that the legislative power should be
exercised by the appropriate branch of the government, than
that the executive duties should devolve upon the proper functionary. And if the judicial power fall short of giving effect
to the laws of the union, the existence of the federal government is at an end.
It is in vain, and Worse tb1n in vain, that the national
legislature enact laws, if thdse laws are to remain upon the
statute book as monuments of the imbecility of the national
power. It is in vain that the executive is called to superin-tend the execution of the laws, if he have no power to aid in
their enforcement.
Such weakness and folly are, in no degree; chargeable to
the distinguished men through whose instrumentality the con'stitution was formed. The powers given, it is true, ar.
limited;' and no powers, which are not expressly given, can
bp exercised by the- federal government: but, where given,
they are supreme. Within the sphere allotted to them, the
co-ordinate branches of'the general government revolve, unobstructed by any legitimate exercise of power by the state
governments. The powers exclusively given to the federal
government are limitations upon the 'tate authorities. But,
with the exception of these limitations, the states are supreme;
aI~d their sovereignty can be no more invaded by the action
of the general government, than 'the action of the state governmento in arrest or.obstruct the course of the national power.

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

It has been asserted that the federal government is foreign
to the state governments; and that it must consequently be
hostile .to them. Such an opinion could not have resulted
from a thorough investigation of the great principles which
lie at the foundation of our system. The federal government
is neither foreign to the state governments, nor is it hostile to
them. It proceeds from the same people, and is as much under their jontrol as the state governments.
Where, by the constitution, the power of legislation is exclusively vested in congress, they legislate for the people of
the union, and their acts are as binding as are the constitutional
enactments of a state legislature on the people of the state.
If this were not so, the federal government would exist'only
in name. Instead of being the proudest monument of human
wisdom and patriotism, it would be the frail memorial of the
ignorance and mental imbecility of its framers.
In the discharge of his constitutional duties, the federal executive acts upon the people of the union, the same as a governor of a state, in the performance of his duties, acts upon the
people of the state. And the judicial power of the United
States acts in the same manner on the people. It rests upon
the same basis ds the other departments of the government.
The powers of each are derived from the same source, and
are conferred by the same instrument. They have the same
limitations and extent.
The supreme court of a state, when required to give effect
to a statute of the state, will examine its constitution, which
they are sworn to maintain, to see if the legislative act be repugnant to it; and if a repugnancy exist, the statute must
yield to the paramount law.
The same principle- governs the supreme tribunal of the
union. No one can deny, that the constitution of the United
States is the supreme law of the land; and consequently, no
act of any state legislature, or of congress, which is repugnant
to it, can be of any validity.
Now if an act of a state legislature be repugnant to the con
stitution of the state, the state court will declare it void; and
if such act be repugnant to the constitution of the union, or a
law made under that constitution, which is declared to be the
supreme law of the land, is it not equally void? And, under

SUPREME COURT.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

such circumstances, if this court should shrink from a discharg6
of their duty, in giving effect to the supreme law of the land,
would they not violate their oaths, prove traitors to the constitution, and forfeit all just claim to the public confidence?
It is sometimes objected, if the federal judiciary may declare
an act of a state legislature void, because it is repugnant to the
constitution of the United States, it places the legislation of a
state within the power of this court. And might not the same
argument be urged with equal force against the exercise of a
similar power, by the supreme court of a state. Such an argument must end in the destruction of all constitutions, and the
will of the legislature, like the acts of the parliament of Great
Britain, must be the supreme, and only law of the land.
It is impossible to guard an investiture of power so that it
may not, in some form, be abused: an argument, therefore,
against the exercise of power, because it is liable to abuse,
would go to the destruction of all governments.
The powers of this court are expressly, not constructively,
given by the constitution; and within this delegation of power,
this court are the supreme court of the people of the United
States, and they are bound to discharge their duties, under the
same responsibilities as the supreme court of a state; and are
equally, within their powers, the supreme court of the people
of each state.
When this court are required to enforce the laws of any state,
they are governed by those laws. So closely do they adhere
to this rule, that during tie present term, a judgment of a circuit court of the United States, made in pursuance of decisions
of this court, has been reversed and annulled, because it did
not conform to the decisions of the state court, in giving a
construction to a local law. But while this court conforms its
decisions to those of the state courts, on all questions arising
under the statutes and constitutions of the respective states,
they are bound to revise and correct those decisions, if they
annul, either the constitution of the United States, or the laws
made under it.

It alppears, then, that on all questions arising under the laws
of a state, the decisions of the courts of such btate form a rule
for the decisions of this court, and that on all questions arising
under the laws of the United States, the decisions of this court

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

form a rule for the decisions of the state courts. Is there any
thing unreasonable in this? Have not the federal, as well as
the stat, courts, been constituted by the people? Why then
should one tribunal more than the other, be deemed hostile to
the interests of the people.
In the second section of the third article of the constitution,
it is declared, that "the judicial power shall extend to all
cases, in law and equity, arising under the constitution, the
laws of the United States, and treaties made, or which shall be
made, under their authority.
Having shown that a writ of error will lie in this case, and
that the record has been duly certified, the next inquiry that
arises is, what are the acts of the United States which relate
to the Cherokee Indians and the acts of Georgia; and were
these acts of the -United States sanctioned by the federal constitution?
Among the enumerated powers of congress, contained in the
eighth section of the first article of the constitution, it is declared '"that congress shall have power to regulate commerce
with foreign nations, and among the Indian tribes." By the
articles of confederation, which were adopted on the 9th day
of July 1778, it was provided "that the United States, in
congress assembled, shall also have the sole and exclusive right
and power of regulating the alloy and value of coin struck, by
their own authority, or by that of the respective states; fixing
the standard of weights and measures throughout the United
States; regulating the trade and management of all affairs with
the Indians, not members of any of the states: Provided, that
the legislative right of any state, within its own limits, be not
infringed or violated."
As early as June 1775, and before the adoption of the articles of confederation, congress took into their consideration
the subject of Indian affairs. The Indian country was divided
into three departmerts, and the superintendence of each was
committed to commissioners, who were authorised to hold
treaties with the Indians, make disbursements of money for
their use, and to discharge various duties, designed to preserve
peace and cultivate a friendly feeling with them towards the
,olonies. No person was permitted to trade with them with-

SUPREME COURT.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

out allcense from one or more of the commissioners of the
respective departments.
In April 1776, it was "resolved, that the commissioners of
Indian affairs in the middle department, or any one of them,
be desired to employ, for reasonable salaries, a minister of the
gospel, to reside among the Delaware Indians, and instruct
them in the Christian religion; a school master, to leach their
youth reading, writing, and arithmetic; also, a blacksmith, to
do the work of the Indians." The general intercourse with
the Indians continued to be managed under the superintendence of the continental congress.
On the 28th of November 1785, the treaty of Hopewell was
formed, which was the first treaty made with the Cherokee
Indians. The commissioners of the United States were required to give notice to the executives of Virginia, North
Carolina, South Carolina and Georgia, in order that each might
appoint one or more persons to attend the treaty, but they
seem to have had no power to act on the occasion.
In this treaty it is stipulated, that "the commissioners plenipotentiary of the United States in congress assembled, give
peace to all the Cherokees, and receive them into the favour
and protection of the United States of America, ou the following conditions:"
1. The Cherokees to restore all prisoners and property
taken during the war.
2. The United States to restore to the Cherokees all prisoners.
3. The Cherokees acknowledge themselves to be under the
protection of the United States, and of no other sovereign
whatsoever.
4. The boundary line between the Cherokees and the citizens of the United States was'agreed to as designated.
5. If any person, not being an Indian, intrude upon the
land "allotted" to the Indians, or, being settled on it, shall
refuse to remove within six months after the ratification of the
treaty, he forfeits the protection of the United States, and the
Indians were at liberty to punish him as they might think
proper.
6. The lrdians are bound to deliver up to the United States
any Indian who shall commit robbery, or other capital crime,
on a white person living within their protection.

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

7. If the same offence be committed on an Indian by a citizen of the United States, he is to be punished.
8. It is understood that the punishment of the innocent,
under the idea of retaliation, is unjust, and shall not be practised on either side, except where there is a manifest violation
of this treaty; and then it shall be preceded, first, by a demand
of justice; and, if refused, then by a declaration of hostilities.
"That the Indians may have fall confidence in the justice
of the United States respecting their interests, they shall have
a right to send a deputy of their choice, whenever they think
fit, to congress."
The treaty of Holston-was entered into with the same people, on the 2d day of July 1791.
This was a treaty of peace, in which the Cherokees again
placed themselves under the protection of the United States,
and engaged to hold no treaty with any foreign power, individual state, or with individuals of any state. Prisoners were
agreed to be delivered up on both sides; a new Indian boun,dary was fixed; and a cession of land made to the United
States on the payment of a stipulated consideration.
A free, unmolested road, was agreed to be given through
the Indian lands, and the free navigation of the Tennessee
river. It was agreed that the United States should have the
exclusive right of regulating their trade, and a solemn guarantee of their land, not ceded, was made. A similar provision.
was made, as to the punishment of offenders, and as to all persons who might enter the Indian territory, as was contained in
the treaty of Hepewell. Also, that reprisal or retaliation shall
not be committed, until satisfaction shall have been demanded
of the aggressor.
On the 7th day of August 1786, an ordinance for the regulation of Indian affairs was adopted, which repealed the former
system.
In 1794 another treaty was made with the Cherokees, the
object of which was to carry into effect the treaty of Holston.
And on the plains of Tellico, on the 2d of October 1798, the
Cherok~ees, in another treaty, agreed to give a right of way,
in a certain direction, over their lands. Other engagements
were also entered into, which need not be referred to.
Various other treaties were made by the United States ,ifh

SUPREME COURT.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

the Cherokee Indians, by which, among other arrangements,
cessions of territory were procured and boundaries agreed on.
In atreaty made in 1817, a distinct wish is expressed by
the Cherokees, to assume a more regular form of gavernment,
in which they are encouraged by the United States. By a
treaty held at Washington, on the 27th day of February 1819,
a reservation of land is made by the Cherokees for a school
fund, which was to be surveyed and sold by the United States
for that purpose. And it was agreed, that all white persons,
who had intruded on the Indian lands, should be removed.
To give effect to various treaties with this people, the power
of the executive has frequently been exercised; and at one
time General Washington expressed a firm determination to
rezort to military force to remove inttuders from the Indian
territories.
On the 30th of March 1802, congress passed an act to regulate trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes, and to
pteserve peace on the frontiers.
In this act it is provided, that any citizen or resident in1 the
United States, who shall enter into the Indian lands to hunt, or
for'any other purpose, without a license, shall be subject to a
fine and imprisonment. And if any person shall attempt to
survey, or actually survey, the Indian lands, he shall be liable
to, forfeit a sum not exceeding one thousand dollars, and be
imprisoned not exceeding twelve months. No person is permitted to reside as a trader within the Indian boundaries,
without a license or pprmit. All persons are prohibited, under a heavy penalty, from purchasing the Indian lands; and
all such purchases are declared to be void. And it is made
lawful for the military force of the United States to arrest
offenders against the provisions of the act.
By the seventeenth section, it is provided, that the act shall
not be so construed as to "prevent any trade or intercourse
with Indians living on lands surrounded by settlements of the
citizens of the United States, and being within the ordinary
jurisdiction of any of the individual states; or the unmolested
use of a road, from Washington district to Mero district, or to
prevent the citizens of Tennessee from keeping in repair said
road." Nor was the act to be so construed as to prevent personis from travelling from Knoiiville to Price's settlement,

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

provided they shall travel in the tract or path which is usually
travelled, and the Indians do not object; but if they object,
then all travel on this road to be prohibited, after proclamation by the president, under the penalties provided in the act'
Several acts, having the same object in view, were passed
prior to this one; but as they were repealed either before, or
by the act of 1802, their provisions need not be specially noticed.
The acts of the state of Georgia, which the plaintiff in error
complains of, as being repugnant to the constitution, treaties,
and laws of the United States, are found in two statutes.
The first act was passed the 12th of December 1829; and is
entitled "4an act to add the territory lying within the chartered limits of Georgia, and now in the occupancy of the
Cherokee Indians, to the counties of Carroll, Dekalb, Gwinnett and Habersham; and to extend the laws'of the state. over
the same, and to annul all laws made by the Cherokee nation
of Indians, and to provide for the compensation of officers
serving legal process in said territory, and to regulate the testimony of Indians, and to repeal the ninth section of the act
of l .8?on this subject."
This act annexes the territory of the Indians, within the'
limits of Georgia, to the counties named in the title; and extends the jurisdiction of the state over it. It annuls the laws,
ordinances, orders and regulations, of any kind, made by the
Cherokees, either in council or in any other way, and they
are not permitted to be given in evidence in the courts of the
state. By this law, no Indian, or the descendant of an Indian,
residing within the Creek or Cherokee nation of Indians, shall
be deemed a competent witness in any court of the state, to
which a white person may be a party, except such White person reside within the nation. Offences under the act a,
be punished by confinement in the penitentiary, in some cases
not less than four nor more than six ydars, and in others not
exceeding four years.
The second act was passed on the 22d day of December
1830, and is entitled "an act to prevent the exercise of assumed and arbitrary power, by all persons, on pretext of
authority from the Cherokee Indians and their laws; and to
prevent white persons from residing within that part of the
VOL. VI.-3 X

SUPREME COURT.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

chartered limits of Georgia, occupied by the Cherokee Indians;
and to provide a guard for the protection of the gold mines,
and to enforce the laws of the state within the aforesaid territory."
By the first section ot this act, it is made a peniteutiary
offence, after the 1st day of February 1831, for any person or
persons, under colour or -pretence of authority from the said
Cherokee tribe, or as headmen, chiefs or warriors of said tribe,
to cause or procure, by any meana, the assembling of any
council or other pretended legislative body of the said Indians,
for the purpose of legislating, &c.
They are prohibited from making laws, holding courts of
justice, or executing process. And all white persons, after the
1st of March 1831, who shall reside within the limits of the
Cherokee nation, without a license or permit from his excellency the governor, or from such agent as his excellency the
governor shall authorize to grant such permit or license, or
who shall not have taken the oath hereinafter required, shall
be guilty of a high misdemeanour; and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by confinement to the penitentiary at
herd labour, for a term not less than four years. From this
punishment, agents of the United States are excepted, white
females, and male children under twenty-one years of age.
Persons who have obtained license, are required to take the
following oath: "I, A. B., do solcrmnly swear, that I will
support and defend the constitution and laws of the state of
Georgia, and uprightly demean myself as a citizen thereof.
So help me God."
The governor is authorized to organize a guard, which shall
not consist of more than sixty persons, to protect the mines in
the Indian territory, and the guard is authorized to arrest all
offenders under the act.
It is apparent that these laws are repugnant to the treaties
with the Cherokee Indians which have been referred to, And to
the law of 1802. This repugnance is made so clear by an exhibition of the respective acts, that no force of demonstration
can make it more palpable.
By the treaties and laws of the United States, rights are
guarantied to the Cherokees, both as it respects their territory
and internal polity. By the laws of Georgia these rights are

JANUARY TERM 1832.
EWorcester v. Tie State of Georgia.]

abolished; and not only abolished, but an ignominious punishment is inflicted on the Indians and others; for the exercise of
them. The important question then arises, which shall stand,
the laws of the United States, or the laws of Georgia? No
rule of construction, or subtlety of argument, can evade an answer to this question. The response must be, so far as the
punishment of the plaintiff in error is concerned, in favour of
the one or the other.
Not to feel the full weight of this momentous subject, would
evidence an ignorance of that high responsibility which is devolved upon this tribunal, and upon its humblest member, in
giving a decision in this case.
Are the treaties and law which have been cited, in force?
and what, if any, obligations, do they impose on the federal
government within the limits of Georgia?
A reference has been made to the policy of the United
States on the subject of Indian affairs, before the adoption of
the constitution, with the view of ascertaining in what light
the Indians have been considered by the first official acts, in
relation to them, by the United States. For this object, it
might not be improper to notice how they were considerel by
the European inhabitants, who first formed settlements in this
part of the continent of America.
The abstract right of every section of the human race to a
reasonable portion of the soil, by which to acquire the means
of subsistence, cannot be controverted. And it is equally
clear, that the range of nations or tribes, who exist in the
hunter state, may be restricted within reasonable limits. They
shall not be permitted to roam, in the pursuit of game, over
an extensive and rich country, whilst in' other parts, human
beings are crowded so closely together, as to render the means
of subsistence precarious. The law of nature, which is paramount to all other laws, gives the right to every nation, to the
enjoyment of a reasonable extent of country, so as to derive
the means of subsistence from the soil.
In this view perhaps, our ancestors, when they first migrated to this country, might have taken possession of a limited
extent of the domain, had they been sufficiently powerful,
without negotiation or purchase from the native Indians. But
this course is believed to have been nowhere taken. A more

SUPREME COURT.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

conciliatory mode was preferred, and one which was better
calculated to impress the Indians, who were then powerful,
with a sense of the justice of their white neighbours. The
occupancy of their lands was never assumed, except upon the
basis of contract, and on the payment of a valuable consideration.
This policy nas obtained from the earliest white settlements
in this country, down to the present time. Some cessions of
territory may have been made by the Indians, in compliance
with the terms on which peace was offered by the whites; but
the soil, thus taken, was taken by the laws of conquest, and
always as an indemnity for the expenses of the war, commenced
by the Indians.
At no time has the sovereignty of the country been recognized as existing in the Indians, but they have been always
admitted t9 possess many of the attributes of sovereignty. All
the rights which belong to. self government have been recognized as vested in them. Their right of occupancy has never
been questioned, but the fee in the soil has been considered in
the government. This may be called the right to the ultimate
domain, but the Indians have a present right of possession.
In some of the old states, Massachusetts, Connecticut,
Rhode Island and others, where small remnants of tribes remain, surrounded by white populatiin, and who, by their
reduced numbers, had lost the power of self government, the
laws of the state have been. extended over them, for the protection of their persons and property.
Before the adoption of the constitution, the mode of treating
with the Indians was various. After the formatioa of the
confederacy, this subject was placed under the special superintendence of the United Colonies; though, subsequent to that
time, treaties may have been occasionally entered into betwee,
a state and the Indians in its neighbourhood. It is not considered to be at all important to go into a minute inquiry on
this subject.
By the constitution, the regulation of commerce among the
Indian tribes is given to congress. This power must be consid&ed as exclusively vested in congress, as the power to
regulate commerce with foreign nations, to coin money, to

JANUARY TERM 1832,
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

establish post offices, and to declare war. It is enumerated in
the same section, apd belongs to the same class of powers.
This investiture of power has been exercised in the regulation of commerce with the Indians, sometimes by treaty, and,
at other times, by enactments of congress. In this respect
they hbive been placed bythe federal authority, with but few
exceptions, on the same footing as foreign nations.
It is said that these treaties are nothing more than compacts,
which cannot be considered as obligatory on the United States,
from a want of powei in the Indians to enter into them.
What is a treaty? The answer is, it is a compact formed
betwecn two nations or ccmmunities, having the right-of self
government.
Is it essential that each party shall possess the same attributes of sove.-eignty, to give force to the treaty? This will
not be pretended: for, on this ground, very few valid treaties
could be formed. The only requisite is, that each of the contracting parties shall possess the right of self government, and
the power to perform the stipulations of the treaty.
Ujiver the constitution, no state can enter into any treaty;
and it is believed that, since its adoption, no state, under its
own authority, has held a treaty with the Indians.
It must be admitted, that the Indians sustain a peculiar relation to the United States. They do not constitute, as was
decided at the last term, a foreign state, so as to claim the
right to sue in the supreme court of the United States: and
yet, h:x'ing the right of self government, they, in some sense,
form a state. In the management of their internal concerns,
they are dependent on no power. They punish offences under 1heir own laws, and, in doing so, they are responsible to
no earthly tribunal. They wake war, and form treaties of
peace. The exercise of these and other powers, gives to them
a distinct haracter as a people, and constitutes them, in some
respects, a state, although they may not be admitted to possess
the right of soil.
By various treaties, the Cherokees have placed themselves
midur the protection of the United States: they have agreed
to trade with n~o other people, nor to invoke the protection of
mny other sovereignty. But such engagements do not divest

SUPREME COURT.
[Worcester Y.The State of Georgia.]

them of the right of self government, nor destroy their capa.
city to enter into treaties or compacts.
Every state is more or less dependent on those which surround it; but, unless this dependence shall extend so far as to
merge the political existence of the protected people into that
of their protectors, they may still constitute a state. They
may exercise the powers not relinquished, and bind themselves
as a distinct and separate community.
The language used in treaties with the Indians shonld never
be construed to their prejudice. If words be made use of
which are susceptible of a more extended meaning than their
plain import, as connected with the tenor of the treaty, they
should be considered as used only in the latter sense. T(
contend that the word "allotted," in reference to the ]an(
guarantied to the Indians in certain treaties, indicates P favour
conferred, rather than a right acknowledged, would, it would
seem to me, do injustice to the understanding of the parties.
How the words of the treaty were understood by this unlettered people, rather than their critical meaning, should form
the rule of construction.
The question may be asked, is no distinction to be made
between a civilized and savage people? Are our Indians to be
placed upon a footing with the nhtions of Europe, with whom
we have made treaties?
The inquiry is not, what station shall now be given to the
Indian tribes in our country? but, what relation have they
sustained to us, since the commencement of our government?
We have made treaties with them; and are those treaties to
be disregarded on our part, because they were entered into
with an uncivilized people? Does this lessen the obligation
of such treaties? By entering into them, have we not admitted
the power of this people to -bind themselves, and to impose obligations on us?
The president afd senate, except under the treaty-making
power, cannot enter into compacts with the Indians, or with
foreign nations. This power has been uniformly exercised in
forming treaties with the Indians.
Nations differ from each other in condition, and that of the
same nation may change by the revolutions of time, but the

JANUARY TE!MI 1832.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

principles of justice are the same. They rest upon a base
which will remain beyond the endurance of time.
After a lapse of more than forty years since treaties with
the Indians have been solemnly ratified by the general government, it is too late to deny their binding force. Have the nupmerous treaties which have been formed with them, and the
ratifications by the president and -senate, been nothing more
than an idle pageantry?
By numerous treaties with the Indian tribes, we have acquired accessions of territory, of incalculable value to the
union. Except by compact, we have not even claimed a right
of way through the Indian lands. We have recognised in
them the right to make war. No one has ever supposed that
the Indians could commit treason against the United States.
We have punished them for their violation of treaties; but we
have inflicted the punishment on them as a nation, and not on
individual offenders among them as traitors.
In the executive, legislative, and judicial branches of our
government, we have admitted, by the most solemn sanctions,
the existence of the Indians as a separate and distinct people,
and as being vested with rights which constitute them a
state, or separate community-not a foreign, but a domestic
community-not as belonging to the confederacy, but as existing .within it.and, of necessity, bearing to it a peculiar
relation.
But, can the treaties which have been referred to, and the
law of 1802, be considered in force within the limits of the
state of Georgia?
In the act of cession, made by Georgia to the United
States, in 1802, of all lands claimed by her west of the line
designated, one of the conditions was, "that the United States
should, at their own expense, extinguish, for the use of
Georgia, as early as the same can be peaceably obtained, on
reasonable terms, the Indian title to lafads Within the staie of
Georgia."
One of the counsel, in the argument, endeavoured to show,
that no part ef the country now inhabited by the Cherokee
Indians, is within what is called the chartered limits of
Georgia.
It appears that the charter of Georgia was surrendered,

SUPREME COURT.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

by the trustees, and that, like the state of South Carolina,
she became a regal colony. The effect of this change was, to
authorise the crown to alter the boundaries, in the exercise of
its discretion. Certain alterations, it seems, were subsequently
'made: but I do not conceive it can be of any importance to
enter into a minute consideration .of them. Under its char.
ter, it may be observed, that Georgia derived a right to the
soil, subject to the Indian title, by occupancy. By the act of
cession, Georgia designated a certain line as the limit of that
cession, and this line, unless subsequently altered, with the
assent of the parties interested, must be considered as the boundary of the state of Georgia. This line having been thus recognized, cannot be contested on any question which may incidentally arise for judicial decision.
It is important, on this part of the case, to ascertain in what
light Georgia has considered the Indian title to lands, generally,
and particularly, wi hin her own boundaries; and also, as to
the right of the Indians to self-government.
In the first place, she was a party to all the treaties entered
into between the United States and the Indians, sigcc the adoption of the constitution. And prior to that period, she was
represented in making them, and was bound by their provisions, although it is alleged that she remonstrated against the
treaty of Hopewell. In the passage of the intercourse law of
1802, as one of the constituent parts of the union, she was also
a party.
The stipulation made in her act of cession, that the United
States should extinguish the Indian title to lands within the
state, was a distinct recognition of the right in the federal
government, to make the extinguishment; and also, that, until
it should be made, the right of occupancy would remain in the
Indians.
In a law of the state of Georgia, "for opening the land
office and for other purposes," passed in 1783, it is declared
that surveys made on Indian lands were null and void; a fine
was inflicted on the person making the survey, which, if not
paid by the offender, he was punished by imprisonment. By
a subsequent act, a line'was fixed for the Indians, which was a
boundary between them and the whites. A similar provision
isfound in other laws of Georgia, passed before the adoption

JANUARY TERM 18,2.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.1

of the constitution. By an act of 1787, severe corporeal punishment was inflicted on those who made or attempted to make
surveys, "beyond the temporary line designating the Indian
hunting ground."
On the 19th of November 1814, the following resolutions
were adopted by the Georgia legislature.
"Whereas, many of the citizens of this state, without regard to existing treaties between the friendly Indians and the
United States, and contrary to the interest and good policy of
this state, have gone, and -are frequently going over, and
settling and cultivating the lands allotted to the friendly Indians for their hunting ground, by which means the state is
not only deprived of their services in the army, but considerable feuds are engendered between us and our- friendly neighbouring Indians:
"Resolved, therefore, by the senate and house of representatives of the state of Georgia in general assembly met, that
his excellency, the governor, be, and is hereby requested to
take the necessary means to have all intruders removed off the
Indian lands, and that proper steps be taken to prevent future
aggressions."
in 1817, the legislature refused to take any steps to dispose
of lands acquired by treaty with the Indians, until the treaty
had been ratified by the senate; and, by a resolution, the governor was direeted to have the line run between the state of
Georgia and the Indians, according to the late treaty. The
same thing was again done in the year 1819, under a recent
treaty.
In a memorial to the president of the United States, by the
legislature of Georgia, in 1819, they say, "it has long been
the desire of Georgia, that her settlements should be extended
to her ultimate limits." "That the soil within her boundaries should be subjected to her control; and, that her police
organization and government should be fixed and permanent."
"That the state of Georgia claims a right to the jurisdiction
and soil of the territory within her limits:" "She admits,
however, that the right is inchoate-remaining to be perfected
by the United States, in the extinction of the Indian title; the
United Statespro hac vice as their agents."
The Indian title was also distinctly acknowledged by the act
VOL. VI.-3 Y

SUPREME COURT.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

of 1796, repealing the Yazoo act. It is there declared, it?
reference to certain lands, that "they are the sole property of
the state, subject only to the right of the treaty of the United
States, to enable the state to purchase, under its pre-emption
right, the Indian title to the same;" and also, that the land is
vested in the "state, to whom the right of pre-emption to the
same belongs, subject only to the controlling power of the
United Statt , to authorise any treaties for, and to superintend
the same." This language, it will be observed, was used long
before the act of cession.
On the 25th of March 1825, the governor of Georgia issued
the following proclamation:
"Whereas it is provided in said treaty, that the United
States shall protect the Indians against the incroachments,
hostilities, and impositions of the whites, so that they suffer no
imposition, molestation, or injury in their persons, goods,
effects, their dwellings,' or the lands they occupy, until their
removal shall have been acomplished, according to the terms
of the treaty," which had been recently made with the Indians.
- I,have therefore thought proper to issue this my proclamation, warning all persons, citizens of Georgia or others,
against trespassing or intruding upon lands occupied by the
Indians, within the limits of Georgia, either for the purpose of
settlement or otherwise, as every such act will be iwr direct
violation of the provisions of the treaty aforesaid, and will
expose the aggressors to the most certain and summary punishment, by the authorities of the state, and the United States."
"All good citizens, therefore, pursuing the dictatesof good
faith, will unite in enforcing the obligations of the treaty, as
the supreme law," &c.
Many other references might be made to the public acts of
the state of Georgia, to show that she admitted the obligation
of Indian treaties, but the above are believed to be sufficient.
These acts do honour to the character of that highly respectable state.
Under the act of cession, the United States were bound, in
good faith, to extinguish the Indian title to lands within the
limits of Georgia, so soon as it could be done peaceably and on
reasonable terms.

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.1

The state of Georgia has repeatedly remonstrated to the
president.on this subject, and called upon the government to
lake the necessary steps to fulfil its engagement. She complained that, whilst the Indian title to immense tracts of country had been extinguished elsewhere, within the limits of
Georgia but little progress had been made; and this was attributed, either to a want of effort on the part of the federal government, or to the effect of its policy towards the Indians. In
one or more of the treaties, titles in fee simple were given to
the Indians, to certain reservations of land; and this was complained of, by Georgia, as a direct infraction of the condition
of the cession. It has also been asserted, that the policy of
the government, in advancing the cause of civilization among
the Cherokees, and inducing them to assume the forms of a
regular government and of civilized life, was calculated to
increase their attachment to the soil they inhabit, and to render
the purchase of their title more difficult, if not impracticable.
A full investigation of this subject may not be considered as
strictly within the scope of the judicial inquiry which belongs
to the present case. But, to some extent, it has a direct bearing on the question before the court; as it tends to show how
the rights and powers of Georgia were construed by her public
functionaries.
By the first president of the United States, and by every
succeeding one, a strong solicitude has been expressed for the
civilization of the Indians. Through the agency of the government, they have been partially induced, in some parts of'
the union, to change the hunter state for that of the agriculturist and herdsman.
In a letter addressed by Mr Jefferson to the Cherokees,
dated the 9th of January 1809, he recommends them to adopt
a regular government, that crimes might be punished and property protected. He points out the mode by which a council
should be chosen, who should have power to enact laws; and
he also recommended the appointment of judicial and execu.
tive agents, through whom the law might be enforced. The
agent of the government, who resided amqng them, was recommended to be associated with their council, that he might
give the necessary advice on all subjects relating to their government.

SUPREME COURT.
EWorcester v. The State of Georgia.]

In the treaty of 1317, the Cherokees are encouraged to adopt
a regular form of government.
Since that time, a law has been passed making an annual
appropriation of the sum of ten thousand dollars, as a school
fund, for the education of Indian youths, which has been distributed among the different tribes where schools had been
established. Missionary labours among the Indians have also
been sanctioned by the government, by granting permits, to
those who were disposed to engage in such a work, to reside
in the Indian country.
That the means adopted by the general government to reclaim the savage from his erratic life, and induce him to assume
the forms of civilization, have had a tendency to increase the
attachment of the Cherokees to the country they now inhabit.
is extremely probable; and that it increased the difficulty of
purchasing their lands, as by act of cession the general government agreed to do, is equally probable.
Neither Georgia, nor the United States, when the cession
was made, contemplated that force should be used in the extinguishment of the Indian title; nor that it should be procured on terms that are not reasonable. But, may it not be
said, with equal truth, that it was not contemplated by either
party that any obstructions to the fulfilment of the compact
should be allowed, much less sanctioned, by the United States?
The humane policy of the government towards these children of the wilderness must afford pleasure to every benevolent
feeling; and if the efforts made have not proved as successful
as was anticipated, still much has been done Whether the
advantages of this policy should not have been held out by the
government to the Cherokees within the limits of Georgia, as
an inducement for them to change their residence and fix it
elsewhere, rather than by such means to increase their attachment to their present home, as has been insisted on, is a question which may be considered by another branch of the government. Such a course might, perhaps, have secured to the
Cherokee Indians all the advantages they have realized from
the paternal superintendence of the government; and have
enabled it, on peaceable and reasonable terms, to comply with
the act of cession
Does the intercourse law of 1802 apply to the Indians who

JANUARY TERM 1832.
EWorcester v. The State of Georgia.]

live within the limits of Georgia ? The nineteenth section of
that act provides, "that it shall not be construed to prevent
any trade or intercourse with Indians living on lands surrounded by settlements- of the citizens of the United States,
and being within the ordinary jurisdiction of any of the individual states ? This provision, it has been supposed, excepts
from the operation of the law the Indian lands which lie within
any state. A moment's reflection will show that this construotion is most clearly erroneous.
To constitute an eyvation to the provisions of this act, the
Indian settlement, at the time of its passage, must have been
surrounded by settlements of the citizens of the United States,
and within the ordinary jurisdiction of a state; not only within
the limits of a state, but within the common exercise of its
jurisdiction.
No one will pretend that this was the situation of the Cherokees who lived within the state of Georgia in 1802; or, indeed.
that such is their present situation. if, then, they are not embraced by the exception, all the provisions of the act of 1802
apply to them.
In the very section which contains the exception, it is provided, that the use of the road from Washington district to
Mero district should be enjoyed, and that the citizens of Tennessee, under the orders of the governor, might keep the road
in repair. And in the same section, the navigation of the Tenaec6ee rivee is reerved, and a right to travel from Knoxville
to Price's settlement, provided the Indians should not object.
Now, all these provisions relate to the Cherokee country;
and can it be supposed, by any one, that such provisions would
have been made in the act, it congress had not considered it as
!pplyinr to the Cherokee country, whether in the state of
Georgia, or in the state of Tennessee?
The exception applied, exclusively, to those fragments of
tribes which are found in several of the states, and which came
literally within the description used.
Much has been said against the existence of an independent
power within a sovereign state; and the conclusion has been
drawn, that the Indians, as a matter of right, cannot enforce
their own laws within the territorial limits of a state. The
refutation of this argument is found in our past history.

SUPREME COURT.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

That fragments of tribes, having lost the power of self-government, and who lived within the ordinary jurisdiction of a
state, have been taken under the protection of the laws, has
already been admitted. But there has been no instance, where
the state laws have. been generally extended over a numerous
tribe of Indians, living within the state, and exercising the
right of self-government, until recently.
Has Georgia ever, before her late laws, attempted to regulate the Indian communifies within her limits? It is true,
New York extended her criminal laws over the remains of the
tribes within that state, more for their protection than for any
otherpurpose. These tribes were few in number, and were surrounded by a white population. But, even the state of New
York has never asserted the power, it is believed, to regulate
their concerns beyond the suppression of crime.
Might not the same objection to this interior independent
power, by Georgia, have been urged, with as much force as at
present, ever since the adoption of the constitution? Her
chartered limits, to the extent claimed, embraced a great number of different nations of Indians, all of whom were governed
by their own laws, and were amenable only'to them. Has
not this been the condition of the Indians within Tennessee,
Ohio, and other states?
The exercise of this independent power surely does not become more objectionable, as it assumes the basis of justice and
the forms of civilization. Would it not be a singular argument to admit, that, so long as the Indians govern by the rifle
and the tomahawk, their government may be tolerated; but,
that it must be.suppressed, so soon as it shall be administered
upon the enlightened principles of reason and justice?
Are not those nations of Indians who have made some advances in civilization, better neighbours than those who are
still in a savage state? And is not the principle, as to their
self government, within the jurisdiction of a state, the same?
When Georgia sanctioned the constitution, and conferred
on the national legislature the exclusive right to regulate commerce or intercourse with the Indians, did she reserve the
right to regulate intercourse with the Indians within her limits?
This will not be pretended. If stch had been the construction of her own powers, would they iot have been exercised?

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Worcester v. The State of Georga.]

Did her senatrrs object to the numerous treaties which have
been formed with the different tribes, who lived within her
acknowledged boundaries? Why did she apply to the executive of the union, repeatedly, to have the indian title extinguished; to establish a-line between the Indians and the state,
and to procure a right of way through the Indian lands?
The residence of Indians, governed by their own laws,
within the limits of a state, has never been deemed incompatible with state sovereignty, until recently. And yet, this
has been the condition of many distinct tribes of Indians, since
the foundation of the federal government..
How is the question varied by the residence of the Indians
in a territory of the United States? Are not the United States
sovereign within their territories? And has it evet been conceived, by any one, that the Indian governments, which exist
in the territories, are incompatible with the sovereignty of the
union?
A state claims the right of sovereignty, commensurate with
her territory; as the United States claim it, in their proper
sphere, to the extent of the federal limits. This right or power,
in some cases, may be exercised, but not in others. Should a
hostile force invade the country, at its most remote boundary,
it would become the duty of the general government to expel
the invaders. But it would violate the solemn compacts with
the Indians, without cause, to dispossess them of rights which
they possess by nature, and have been uniformly acknowledged by the federal government.
Is it incompatible with state sovereignty to grant exclusive
jurisdiction to the federal government over a number of acres
of land, for military purposes? Our forts and arsenals, thougli
situated in the different states, are not within their jurisdiction.
Does not the constitution give to the United States as exclusive jurisdiction in regulating intercourse with the Indians, as
has been given to them over any other subjects ? Is there any
doubt as to this investiture of power? Has it not been exercised by the federal government, ever since its formation, not
only without objection, but under the express sanction of all
the states ?
The power to dispose of the public domain is an attribute

SUPREME COURT.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

of sovereignty. Can the new states dispose of the '!nds within
their limits, which are owned by the federal government?
The power to tax is also an attribute of sovereignty; but, can
the new states tax the lands of the United States ? Have they
not bound themselves, by compact, not to tax the public lands,
nor until five years after they shall have been sold ? May
they violate this compact, at discretion ?
Why may not these powers be exercised by the respective
states ? The answer is, because they have parted with them,
expressly for the general good. Why may not a state coin
money, issue bills of. credit, enter into a treaty of alliance or
confederation, or regulate commerce with foreign nations?
Because these powers have been expressly and exclusively
given to the federal government.
Has not the power been as expressly conferred on the deral
government, to regulate intercourse with the Indians; and
is it not as exclusively given, as any of the powers above
enumerated? There being no exception to the exercise ,f this
power, it must operate on all communities of Indians, exercising the right of self-government; and consequently, include
those who reside within the limits of a state, as well as others.
Such has been the uniform construction of this power by the
federal government, and of every state government, until the
question was raised by the state of Georgia.
Under this clause of the constitution, no political jurisdiction over the Indians, has been claimed or exercised. The
restrictions imposed by the law of 1802, come strictly within
the power to regulate trade; not as an incident, but as a part
of the principal power. It is the same power, and is conferred
in the same words, that has often been exercised in regulating
trade with foreign countries. Embargoes have been imposed,
laws of non-intercourse have been passed, and numerous acts,
restrictive of trade, undei the power to regulate commerce
with foreign nations.
In the regulation of commerce with the Indians, congress
have exercised a more limited power than has been exercised
in reference to foreign countries. The law acts upon oUr own
cit zens, and not upon the Indians, the same as the laws referred to act upon our own citizens in their foreign commercial intercourse.

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

It will scarcely be doubted by any one, that, so far as the
Indians, as distinct communities, have formed a connexion
with the federal government, by treaties; that such connexion
is political, and is equally binding on both parties. This cannot be questioned, except upon the ground, that in making
these treaties,, the federal government has transcended the
treaty-making power. Such an objection, it is true, has been
stated, but it is one of modern invention, which arises out of
local circumstances; and is not only opposed to the uniform
practice of the government, but also to the letter and spirit of
the constitution.
But the inquiry may be made, is there no end to the exercise of this power over Indians within the limits of a state, by
the general government? The answer is, that, in its nature,
it must be limited by circumstances.
If a tribe of Indians shall become so degraded or reduced in
numbers, as to lose the power of self-government, the protection of the local law, of necessity, mustbe extended over them.
The point at which this exercise of power by a state would be
proper, need not now be considered: if indeed it be a judicial
question. Such a question does not seem to arise in this case.
So long as treaties and laws remain in full force, and apply to
Indian nations, exercising the rigfit of self-government, within
the limits of a state, the judicial power can exercise no discretion in refusing to give effect to those laws, when questions
arise under them, unless they shall be deemed unconstitutional.
The exercise of the power of self-government by the Indians, within.a state, is undoubtedly contemplated to be temporary. This is shown by the settled policy of the government, in the extinguishment of their title, and especially by
the compact with the state of Georgia. It is a question, not
of abstract right, but of public policy. I do not mean to say,
that the same moral rule which should regulate the affairs of
private life, should not be regarded by communities or nations.
But, a sound national policy does require that the Indian tribes
within our states should exchange their territories, upon equitable principles, or, eventually, consent to become amalgamated
in our political- communities.
At best they can enjoy a very limited independence within
VOL. VI.-3 Z

SUPREME COURT.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

the boundaries of a state, and such a residence must always
subject them to encroachments from the settlements around
them; and their existence within a state, as a separate and independent community, may seriously embarrass or obstruct
the operation of the state laws. If, therefore, it would be inconsistent with the political welfare of the states, and the social
advance of their citizens, that an independent and permanent
power should exist within their limits, this power must give
way to the greater power which surrounds it, or seek its exer.ise beyond the sphere of state authority.
This state of things can only be produced by a co-operation
of the state and federal governments. The latter has the exclusive regulation of intercourse with the Indians; and, so long
as this power shall be exercised, it cannot be obstructed by the
state. It is a power given by the constitution, and sanctioned
by the most solemn acts of both the federal and state governments: consequently, it cannot be abrogated at the will of a
state. It is one of the powers parted with by the states, and
vested in the federal government. But, if a contingency shall
occur, which shall render the Indians who reside in a state,
incapable of self-government, either by moral degradation or
a reduction of their humbers, it would undoubtedly be in
the power of a state government to extend to them the egis
of its laws. Under such circumstances, the agency of the general government, of necessity, must cease.
But, if it shall be the policy of the government to withdraw
its protection from the Indians who reside within the limits of
the respective states, and who not only claim the right of self
government, but have uniformly exercised it; the laws and
treaties which impose duties and obligations on the general
government should be abrogated by the powers competent to
do so. So long as those laws and treaties exist, having been
formed within the sphere of the federal powers, they must be
respected and enforced by the appropriate organs of the federal government.
The plaintiff who prosecutes this writ of error, entered the
Cherokee country, as it appears, with the express permission
of the president, and under the protection of the treaties of the
United States, and the law of 1802. He entered, not to corrupt
the morals of this people, nor to profit by their substance; but to

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

teach'them, by precept and example, the Christian religion. If
he be unworthy of this sacred office; if he had any other object
than the one professed; if he sought, by his influence, to counteract the humane policy of the federal government towards
the Indians, and to embarrass its efforts to comply with its
solemn engagement with Georgia; though his sufferings be
illegal, he is not a proper object of public sympathy.
It has been shown, that the treaties and laws referred to
come within the due exercise of the cofistitutional powers of the
federal government; that they remain in full force, and consequently must be considered as the supreme laws of the land.
These laws throw a shield over the Cherokee Indians. They
guarantied to them their rights of occupancy, of self-government, and the full enjoyment of those blessings which might be
attained in their humble condition. But, by the enactments
of the state of Georgia, this shield is broken in pieces-the
infant institutions of the Cherokees are abolished, and their
laws annulled. Infamous punishment is denounced against
them, for the exercise of those rights which have been most
solemnly guarantied to them by the national faith.
Of these enactments, however, the plaintiff in error has no
right to complain, nor can he question their validity, except in
so far as they affect his interests. In this view and in this
view only, has it become necessary, in the present case, to
consider the repugnancy of the laws of Georgia to those of
the union.
Of the justice or policy of these laws, it is not my province
to speak: such considerations belonging to the legislature by
whom they Were passed. They have, no doubt, been enacted
under a conviction of right, by a sovereign and independent
state, and their policy may have been recommended, by a
sense of wrong under the compact. Thirty years have
elapsed since the federal government engaged to extinguish
the Indian title, within the limits of Georgia. That she has
strong ground of complaint arising from this delay, must be
admitted; but such considerations are not involved in the
present case; they belong to another branch of the government.
We can look only to the law, which defines our power, and
mnarks out the path of our duty.
Under the administration of the laws of Georgia, a citizen of

SUPREME COURT.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

the United States has been deprived of his liberty; and, claiming
protection under the treaties and laws of the United States, he
makes the question, as he has a right to make it, whether the
laws of Georgia, under which he is now suffering an ignominious punishment, are not repugnant to the constitution of the
United States, and the treaties and laws made under it. This
reptignancy has been shown; and it remains only to say, what
has before been often said by this tribunal of the local
laws of many of the states in this union, that, being repugnant
to the constitution of the United States, and to the laws made
under it, they can have no force to divest the plaintiff in error
of his property or liberty.
Mr Justice BALDwiN dissented: stating that in his opinion,
the record wasnot properly returned upon the writ of error;
and ought to have been returned by the state court, and not
by the clerk of that court. As to the merits, he said his
opinion remained the same as was expressed by him in the case
of the Cherokee Nation v. The State of Georgia at the last term.
The opinion of Mr Justice Baldwin was not delivered to the
reporter.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the superior court for the county of Gwinnett, in
the state of Georgia, and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this Court, that the act of the
legislature of the state of Georgia, upon which the indictment
in this case is founded, is contrary to the constitution, treaties,
and laws of the United States; and that the special plea itn bar
pleaded by the said Samuel A. Worcester, in manner aforesaid, and relying upon the constitution, treaties, and laws of
the United States aforesaid, is a good bar and defence to the
satd indictment, by the said Samuel A. Worcester; and as such
ought to have been allowed and admitted by the said superior
court for the county of Gwinnett, in the state of Georgia, before which the said indictment was pending and tried;' and
that there was error in the said superior court of the state of
Georgia, in overruling the plea so pleaded as aforesaid. It is
therefore ordered and adjudged, that the judgment renlered in

JANUARY TERM 1S32.
[Worcester v. The State of Georgia.]

the premises, by the said superior court of Georgia, upon the
verdict upon the plea of Not guilty afterwards pleaded by the
said Samuel A.Worcester, whereby the said Samuel A. Worcester is sentenced to hard ldhnur in the penitentiary of the state
of Georgia, ought to be reversed and annulled. And this
court proceeding to render such judgment as the said superior
Court, of the state of Georgia should have rendered, it isfurther
ordered and adjudged, that the said judgment of the said superior court be, and hereby is reversed and annulled; and that
judgment be, and hereby is awarded, that the special plea
in bar, so as aforesaid pleaded, is a good and sufficient plea in
bar in law to the indictment aforesaid; and thatall proceedings
on the said indictment do for ever surcease; and that the said
Samuel A. Worcester be, and hereby is henceforth dismissed
therefrom, and that he go thereof quit without day. And that
a special mandate do go from this court, to the said superior
court, to carry this judgment into execution.
In the case of Butler, Plaintiff in Error v. The State of Georgia, the same judgment was given by the court, and a special
mandate was ordered from the court to the stperior cout of
Gwinnett county, to carry the judgment into execution.

