JANUARY TERM 1832.

Ex

PARTE

JOHN A.

DAVENPORtT.

Motion for a mandamus to the district judge of the southern district of New
York, directing him to restore to the record a plea of "tender," which had
been filed, by the defendant, in a suit on a bond for the payment of duties,
which had been ordered by the court to be struck off as a nullity. By
the court: As the allowance of double pleas and defences is a matter not of
absolute right but of discretion in the court; and as the court constantly
exercises a control over the privilege, and will disallow incompatible and
sham pleas, no mandamus will lie to the court for the exercise of its authority in such cases; it being a matter of sound discretion, exclutively appertaining to its own practice. The court cannot say, judicially, that the district
court did not order the present plea to be struck from the record on this ground;
as the record itself furnishes no positive means of information.
Upon the true interpretation of the provision in the sixty-fifth section of the duty
collection act of 1799, ch. 128, relative to granting judgment on motion in
suits on bonds to the United States for duties, the legislature intended no more
than to interdict the party from an imparlance, or any other means or contrivances for mere delay. He should not, by sham pleadings, or other pretended
defences, be allowed to avail himself of a postponement of the judgment, to
the injury of the government, or in fraud of his obligation to make a phectual
payment of the duties, when they had become due. There is no reason to suppose that the legislature meant to bar the party from any good defence against
the suit founded upon real and substantial merits. And such an intention ought
not, in common justice, to be presumed without the most express declarations.
The language of the sixty-fifth section neither requires nor justifies any such in.
terpretation. It merely requires that judgment should be rendered at the return term, unless delay shall be indispensable for the obtainment of justice.
There is no impossibility or impracticability in courts making such rules in
relation to the filing of the pleadings, and the joining of issues in this particular class of cases, as will enable the causes to be heard and tried upon the
merits, and a verdict found at the return term of the court.

THIS was a motion, by Mr Hall of counsel for the relator, for
a mandamus to the judge of the district court of the United
States for the southern district of New York, "commanding
him to restore to the record of the cause, the plea of tender,
filed in the cause by the defendant, and to proceed to the trial,
and judge thereupon according to law; and to vacate all rules
and orders entered in the said court, setting aside such plea as
a nullity."
The affidavit of John A. Davenport was filed, stating the institution of a suit by the United States in the district court of
the United States for the southern district of New York, in

SUPREME COURT.
- [Ex parte Davenport.)

February term 1831, against himself and a certain John A.
Lacon, and that a declaration was filed therein against the defendants, to which the said John A. Davenport, he being the
only defendant who appeared, after oyer, interposed two pleas.
The declaration was in debt on a bond to the United States for
duties on merchandise imported into the port of New York by
Thomas H. Lacon, one of the obligors, on the 1st day of May
1831, in the penal sum of five hundred dollars. The amount
stated to be due to the United States, in the condition of the
bond, was fifty dollars and twenty-five cents. In the margin
of the bond was written in figures the sum of $228 34.
The first plea of the defendant was "non est factum."
The second plea stated, that when the bond became due,
to wit on the 21st day of January 1832, before the commencement of the suit, the defendant Thomas H. Lacon was ready
and willing, at the city of New York, to pay the amount due
thereon, being the sum of fifty dollars and twenty-five cents,
andthat on the same day he tendered to the plaintiffs the said
sum of money which the I laintiffs refused to receive; and that
he was still willing and ready to pay the same; and that the
said sum of fifty dollars and twenty-five cents was brought
into court, to be paid to the plaintiffs.
The affidavit proceeded to state, that the bond was given on
the importation of certain manufactured iron into the port of
New York; for which, as manufactured iron, and according to
the tariff, the amount of duties as set forth in the condition of
the bond was correct. That the collector of the port of New
York, however, upon an allegation that such iron was not
manufactured iron but was subject to a specific duty, increased
the amount of duties to the sum set forth in*the margin of the
bond, and filled in, or caused to be filled in, the penalty of
five hundred dollars; being after the execution of the bond
and tender of payment, and without the assent of the deponent,
td enable a recovery to be had to the extent of the increased
duty; and that a tender of the amount in the condition mentioned was made, in order to test the questions arising out of
the acts of the collector, and the plea interposed accordingly.
The affidavit further stated, that the district attorney of the
United States-moved to strike off from the record the plea of
tender as a nullity; and that upon argument, the district judge

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Ex parte Davenport.i

did decide, that, under the act of congress, no other plea could
be interposed to the bond except the plea of non est factum;
and did thereupon order the said plea to be stricken fr,)m the
record as a nullity.
Mr Taney, attorney-general, presented to the court the
affidavit of the district attorney of the United States for the
southern district of New York, stating the circumstances of
the case; and also a certified copy of the proceedings in the
district court.
The case was submitted without argument.
Mr Justice STORlY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a motion for a mandamus to the district judge for the
southern district of New York, directing him to restore to
the r~cord a plea of tender, which had been filed, together with
a plea of non est factum, by Davenport, in a suit on a custom
house bond for the payment of duties, brought against him in
that court; and which had been ordered by the court to be
struck from the docket as a nullity. As the allowance of
double pleas and defences is matter not of absolute right, but
of discretion in the court, and as the courts constajatly exercise a control over this privilege, and Will disallow incompatible and sham pleas, no mandamus will lie to the court for the
exercise of its authority in such cases; it being a matter of
sound discretion, exclusively appertaining to its own practice.
We cannot say judicially, that the court did not order the present plea to be struck from the record on this ground, as the
record itself furnishes no positive means of information.
But it appears from the affidavit of the party, and the opinion of the district court, with a copy of which we have been
furnished, that the plea was in fact struck from the record
upon the ground that under the sixty-fifth section of the duty
colleqtion act of 1799, chapter 128, the defendant has not a
right to make every defence which he would be entitled to
make in a suit at common law upon such a bond; but that the
statute contemplates a summary proceeding ind judgment
against him, without preserving to him the same right of a trial
by jury upon litigated questions of fact, at least not upon such
questions of fact as are not within the issue of non est factum.

664

SUPREME COURT.
[Ex parte Davenport.]

The words of the sixty-fifth section of the act are, "e and
where suit shall be instituted on any bond for the recovery
of duties due to the United States, it shall be the duty of
the court where the same may be pending- to grant judgment
at the return term, upon motion; unless the defendant shall in
open court, &c. make oath or affirmation, that an error hath
been committed in the liquidation of the duties demanded
upon such bond, spe.cifying the errors, &e. &c; whereupon, if
the court be satisfied that a continuance until the next succeeding term is necessary for the attainment of justice, and not
otherwise, a continuance may be granted, until the next sucIn our opinion, upon the true
ceeding term, and no longer."
interpretation of this provision, the legislature intended no
-more than to interdict the party from an imparlance, or any
other means or contrivances for mere delay. He should not
by sham pleadings, or by other pretended defences, be allowed
to avail himself of a postponement of judgment to the injury
of the government, and in fraud of his obligation to make a
punctual payment of the duties when they had become due.
But we perceive no reason to suppose that the legislature
meant to bar the party from any good defence against the suit,
founded upon real and substantial merits. And certainly we
ought not, in common justice, to presume such an intention
without the most express declarations. To deprive a citizen
of a right of trial by jury, in any case, is a sufficiently harsh
exercise of prerogative, not to be raised by implication from
any general language in a statute. BuL~o presume that the
government meant to shut out the party from all defences
against its claims, however well founded in law and justice,
without a hearing; would be pressing the doctrine to a still
more oppressive extent. We think the language of the sixtyfifth section, neither requires nor justifies any such interpretation. It merely requires that judgment should be rendered at
the return term, unless delay shall be indispensable for the attainment of justice: and there is no impossibility or impracticability in the court's making such rules in relation to the
filing of the pleadings, and the joining of issues in this peculiar
class of cases, as will enable the causes to be heard and tried
upon he merits, and a verdict found at the return term of the
court. It is a matter of common practice in all classes of cases

NUARY TERM 1832.
[Ex paTte Davenport]

at least in one of the circuits, and no inconvenience or hardship has hitherto grown out of it-special exceptions, founded
upon extraordinary circumstances, are and may be disposed of
upon special application for delay.
We have thought it right to express this opinion on the
present occasion, because it appears that there has been a diversity of judgment among the district judges upon the subject. It is probable that the district judge of the southern district of New York, will, upon this intimation, grant the proper
relief. If he should not, we cannot interfere by way of mandamus; unless the objection is put upon the record in a proper
form, which it does not appear to be in the present case.

On consideration of the motion made in this case on a prior
day of the present term of this court for a mandamus to be
directed to the judge of the district court of the United States
for the southern district of New York, "commanding him to
restore to the record of the cause in said named case, the plea
of tender pled in the said cause by the defendant, and to proceed to trial and judge thereupon according to law, and to
vacate all rules or orders entered in the said court, setting
aside such plea as a nullity," and of the exhibits filed in the
case as well by the said counsel of the defendant as by Mr
Attorney-General in behalf of the United States: it is now
here ordered and adjudged by this Court, that the mandamus
prayed for be, and the same is. hereby refused, and that the
said motion be, and the same is hereby overruled.

VoL. VI.-4 I

