SUPREME COURT.

THE PRESIDENT, DIRECTORS AND COMPANY OY THE BANK OF
THE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR V. WILLIAM
S. HATCH, DEFENDANT IN ERROR.
A suit was instituted by the bank against Pearson, the drawer of a bill of exchange indorsed by Hatch, which suit stood for trial at an approaching term.
The attorney and agent of the bank agreed with Pearson, that the suit against
him should be continued withoutjudgment, until the term after that at which
judgment would have been entered, if Pearson would permit a person in confinement under an execution at his suit, to attend a distant court as a witness
for the bank, in a suit in which the bank was plaintiff. The witness was permitted to attend the court, and the suit against Pearson was continued agreeably
to the said agreement. By the court: This was an agreement for a valuable
consideration, and not a mere voluntary and discretionary exercise ofauthoity
On the part of the agent of'the bank. It was a virtual discharge of the in.
dorser of the bill.
The case of M'Lemore v. Powell, 12 Wheat. Rep. 584, cited and confirmed.
The notar -public, on the non-payment of a bill of exchange, left a notice of the
same for"lhe indorser at a private boarding house, where the indorser lodged;
Calling at the boarding house, and inquiring for the indorser of the bill of a
fellow boarder, he was informed that he was not within, and he then left the
notice with the fellow boarder, requesting him to deliver it to the indorser.
Held, that this was sufficient notice to the indorser to make him liable for the
payment of the bill.

ERROR to the circuit court of the United States for the district of Ohio.
This action was brought by the plaintiffs in error, in the
circuit court of the United States for the district of Ohio,
against William S. Hatch, by scire facias upon a judgment obtained against Elijah Pearson, in a suit brought against him
and the said William S. Hatch, in which the marshal returned
"not found;" as to William S. Hatch.
The action was upon a bill of exchange, drawn by Elijah
Pearson, and indorsed by William S. Hatch. The issue was
joined upon the plea of non-assumpsit.
At the trial, the defendant offered in evidence a deposition
of one John M. Ferry, to which the counsel of the plaintiffs
objected, on the grounds stated in 'tbe opinion of the court;
which objection was overruled by the court, and the deposifi6n read. To this opinion of the court, the plaintiffs' counsel
excepted.

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Bank of the United States v. Hatch.]

The jury found the following special verdict, to wit: 4 and
afterwards, to wit, at the December term of said court, in the
year last aforesaid, came the parties, by their said attorneys; and
thereupon, for trying the issue joined, came a jpury, who found
that E. Pearson made the bill of exchange, a copy of which
is attached to the declaration of the said plaintiffs ib the original suit against said Pearson, the drawer of said bill, and that
the said bill was regularly indorsed by the present defendant
Hatch. They also find, that on the 25th day of July in
the year 1820, said bill of exchange was duly protested for
non-payment, and that on said day last mentioned. and on the
succeeding day, the said defendant Hatch was boarding at the
house of Henry Bainbridge, in the city of Cincinnati; that on
the 26th day of July in the year 1820, the notary public by
whom said bill -was protested called at the house of said
Bainbridge, and inquired for said Hatch, and was informed by
a Mr Young that said Hatch was not within; the said notary
then left a written notice of,said protest with said Young, who
was at that time in the house aforesaid, and requested him to
deliver said notice to said Hatch; and that in the summer of
said year 1820, said Young was a boarder at said house. They
also find, that a suit was commenced against said Pearson, the
drawer, on said bill of exchange, which suit stood for trial at
the September term in the year 1822, of the circuit court of
the United States for the district of Ohio. They also find,
that previous to the year 1822, one Griffin Yeatman was confined on 'the jail limits of Hamiliton county in said state, on a
'capias ad resp-ndendum l issued at the instance of, and on a
judgment in favour of said Pearson. That said Yeatman was
a material witness for the plaintiffs in a number of suits then
pending in said court; that one George W. Jones, who was
the then agent for plaintiffs, and one William M. Worthington,
the then attornay for the plaintiffs, agreed with the said Pearson, that, in consideration, he, the said Pearson, would permit the said Yeatman to leave the said jail limits, and attend
said court during the term aforesaid, then the suit then pending in said court against said Pearson, on said bill of exchange,
shguld be continued without judgment until the term of said
court next ensuing said September term A.D. 1822. That,
in pursuance of this agreement, the said Pearson permitted the

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of the United States v. Hatch.]

said Yeatman to leave said jail limits, and attend said court;
and that said suit against said Pearson was continued agreeably
to said agreement. Now, therefore, if upon this finding, the
court shall be of opinion that the plaintiff is entitled to judgment, then the jury find for the plaintiffi to recover of the defendant the amount ef said bill, together with the interest
thereon; but if the court shall be of opinion upon the said finding, that the defendant is entitled to a judgment, then, and in
that case, the jury find for the defendant."
Upon this special verdict, the court below gave judgment
for the defendant, and the plaintiffs below thereupon prosecuted this writ of error.
The. case was argued by Mr Sergeant and Mr Webster for
the plaintiffs in error, and by Mr Ewing for the defendant.
For the plaintiffs in error it was contended, 1. That the
notice of the non-payment of the bill of exchange was sufficiently proved. 2. That the plaintiffs had not discharged the
indorser by the facts set forth in the special verdict.
1. The notice was sufficient. The notary public went to
the house in which the indorser was a boarder, in the city of
Cincinnati, and inquired if Mr Hatch was within, and was informed by Young, also a boarder in the house, that he was
not; and the notary then, left a notice of the non-payment of
the bill with Young, and requested him to deliver the notice
to Mr Hatch.
The law does not require a notice of the non-payment of a
bill or note to be in writing; nor that it shall be given if the
indorser cannot be found, anl no one is at his residence, abode
or place of business to receive it. In this case the indorser
was not at home, and no agent was left who could receive the
notice for him.
But a notice in writing was left at his residence, which is
certainly sufficient. Stedman v. Gooch, 1 Esp. 4; Williams
v. Bank U. S., 2 Peters, 96, 101. A lodger ira lodging house
is in his dwelling, in contemplation of law; and this was the
dwelling of Mr Hatch. If left with any one found in the
lodging house, or at the house, it was a full compliance with
th law.
2. As to the discharge of the indorser.

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Bank of the United Stateg v. Hatch.]

If the circumstances stated in the special verdict have operated to release the indorser, any delay in prosecuting a suit
against the drawer will have the same effect. If a party becomes nonsuit, if he postpones his suit from the absence of
testimony, or for any cause however immaterial to, the merits
of the case, the same effect will follow. The indorser has no
right to insist on the institution of a suit, and he cannot therefore claim the benefit of any proceedings in a suit to which he
was not a party, and with which he could not interfere. 'Even
a stipulation not to sue the drawer, when it does not bind the
indorser, and leaves him free to proceed upon the note or bill
on his paying the-holder the amount, will not release the indorser.
The agreement found by the special verdict did not operate
on the debt. No time was given for its payment: it did not
suspend the claim, the right of action, or the obligation: nor
did it affect directly or indirectly any one but the drawer.
By paying the debt, as the indorser should have doner, he
would have obtained an immediate right of action against the
drawer.
The principles established by this court in the case of
M'Lemore v. Powell, 12 Wheat. 554, are: before the parties
to a bill or note are fixed by notice, any laches on the part of
the holder will discharge the indorsers; after notice, no lacItes
can be imputed, and no diligence is required. So also in
Walwyn v. St Quintin, 1 Bos. & Pull. 654, per Eyre, C. J.
This is therefore the established law.
In all cases where parties originally liable have been held
discharged, either a new security has been given to the holder,
or time given to such parties, to the prejudice of the rights of
the parties held 'discharged. The allowance of time for the
payment of the debt, must have been binding on all the parties, which was not done in this case. Collot v. Haigh, 3
Camp. 281; English v. Darby, 2 Bos. & Pull. 61; Clarke v.
Devlin, 3 Bos. & Pull. 363; Bailey on Bills, 4th ed. 270, 274.
This is not a case of subrcgation. The indorser could not
have come into court, and having paid the holder of the bill,
have prosecuted this suit against the drawer in the hame of the
holder. He could not, therefore, have been prejudiced by the
afrcement, as it did not suspend or impair his right of action.

SUPREME COURT.
tBank of the United Ste,; v* H tch.]

Mr Ewing, for the defendant in error, contended, that the
notice was not sufficient to charge the indorser of the bill.
Where parties to a note or bill reside in the same town, personal notice is required. 2 Peters, 101. The notice in this
case was left with a stranger, and no diligence waVs used to find
the indorser, Hatch, who was only a boarder at the house. If
notice left with an agent would be sufficient, this was not done
in the case before the court. The keeper of the hoarding
house might have been a proper person to receive the notice.
-The agreement between the plaintiffs in error and the
drawer of the bill, discharged the indorser. By the agreement
the plaintiffs received a benefit; there was a consideration for
it. They obtained the testimony of Yeatman, who was a material witness for them. It prejudiced the drawee of the bill,
because it took from him his remedy against Pearson.
The court would have enforced the observance of this agreement. Had the plaintiffs proposed to take judgment, upon
proof of this agreement, and its execution by the drawer of th
bill, the court would have refused to enter judgment.. Had
the judgment 'been taken, upon application during the term,
and.proof of the facts, it would have been set aside and the
cause continued. If these positions are correct, the indorser
was discharged. The whole of the principles of the law on
this matter have been decided in M'Lemore v. Powell, 12
Wheat. 554.
If Hatch, after the agreement, before the following term of
tne court, had applied to the plaintiffs and paid off the bill, he
had a claim to be subrogated to their rights, which were to
proceed with the suit against the drawer; but the plaintiffs had
so tied up their hands thht no judgment could have been taken
at that termn. They had thus, in the very words of the court
ia the case of M'Lemore v. Powell, suspended their own
remedy so as to prejudice the rights of the indorser; and he
must then be discharged.
Mr Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a writ of error to the circuit court of Ohio.
The Bank of the United States, as holders, brought an action
upon a bill of exchange, jointly against Elijah Pearson as
drawer, and against William S. Hatch as indorser, under a

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Bank of the United States v. Hatch.]

statute of Ohio authorising such a proceeding. The marshal
having returned the writ "not found" as to Hatch, the bank
proceeded to take judgment against Pearson alone. The present suit is a scire facias against Hatch to make him a party to
the same judgment, so that execution may also issue against
him, according to the provisions of the same statute. The
declaration and bill of exchange in the original proceedings
have not been, as they ought to have been, sent up in the record, as they constitute a part of it; and for this imperfection
a certiorari ought to have been awarded, if any thing material in it were now controverted by the parties. It appears
from some exhibits in the proceedings, that the bill of exchange
was dated at Cincinnati on the 23d of May 1820, and was as
-follows: It Sixty days after date hereof, pay to the order of
William S. Hatch, at the office of discount and deposit of the
Bank of the United States at Cincinnati, six thousand six hundred dollars, which charge to the account of, Yours, respectfully, E. Pearson." Addressed, "Mr Thomas Graham. CinIt was indorsed by Hatch, and accepted by
cinnati, Ohio."
Graham. Hatch pleaded the general issue, non-assumpsit;
and at the trial the jury found a special verdict, as follows:
"And afterwards, to wit, at the December term of said court,
in the year last aforesaid, came the parties, by their said attorneys; and t!.ereupon, for trying the issue joined, came a jury,
to wit: William B. Van Hook, David Todd, John Larwell,
Randall Stiver, Isaac N. Norton, A. R. Chase, Truman
Beecher, J. R. Geddings, William Rayne, William A. Needham, Ira Paige, and William A. Johnson, who, being empantelled, elected, tried, sworn and affirmed to try the issue
between the parties, upon their oath do say, that B. Pearson
made the bill of exchange, a copy of which is attached to
the declarationof the saidplaintiffs in the original 3uit
against said Pearson, the drawer of said bill, and that the
said bill was regularly indorsed by the present defendant
Hatch. They also find, that on the 25th day of July in
the year 1820, said bill of exchange was duly protested for
non-payment, and that on said day last mentioned, and on the
succeeding day, the said defendant Hatch was boarding at the
house of Henry Bainbridge, in the city of Cincinnati; that
on the 26th day of July in the year 1820, the notary public

SUPREME COURT.
(Bank of the United States v. Hatch.]

by whom said bill was protested called at the house of said
Bainbridge, and ihquired for said Hatch, and was informed by
a Mr Young that said Hatch was not within; the said notary
then left a written notice of said protest with said Young, who
was at that time in the house aforesaid, and requested him to
deliver said notice to said Hatch; and that in the summer of
said year 1820, said Young was a boarder at said house. They
also find, that a suit was commenced against said Pearson, the
drawer of said bill of exchange, which suit stood for trial at
the September term in the year 1822, of the circuit court
of the United States for the district of Ohio. They also
find, that previous to the year 1822, one Griffin Yeatman
was confined -n the jail limits of Hamilton county, in said
state, on a 'ca. sa.,' issued at the instance of, and on a judgment
in favour-of, said Pearson. That said Yeatman was a material
witness for the plaintiff, in a number of suits then pending in
said court; that one George W. Jones, who was the then agent
for plaintiffs, and one William M. Worthington, the then
attorney for the plaintiffs, agreed with the said Pearson, that,
in consideratiorn, he, the said Pearson, would permit the said
Yeatman to leave the said jail limits, and attend said court
during the term aforesaid, then the suit then pending in said
court against baid Pearson, on said bill of exchange, should be
continued without judgment until the term of said court
next ensuing said September term, A. D. 1822. That, in
pursuance of this agreement, the said Pearson permitted the
said -Yeatman to leave said jail limits, and attend said court;
and that said suit against said Pearson was continued agreeably
to said agreement. Now, therefore, if upon this finding, the
court shall be of opinion that the plaintiff is entitled to judgment, then the jury find for the plaintiff to recover of the defendant the amount of said bill, together with the interest
thereon; but if the coui't shall be of opinion upon the said finding, that the defendant is entitled to a judgment, then, and in
that case,, the jury find for the defendant."
Upon ihis special verdict, te court below gave judgment
for the defendant.
Two questions, arising out of the special verdict, have been
argued at the bar. First, whether the notice to Hatch of the
Secondly, if it was,
dishonour of the bill was sufficient.

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Bink of the United States v. Hatch.]

whether the agreement between the bank and Pearson was a
discharge of thz indorser.
Upon the first point we are of opinion, that the notice was
sufficient. In cases of this nature, the law does not require the
highest and strictest degree of diligence in giving notice; but
such a degree of reasonable diligence as will ordinarily bring
home notice to the party. It is a rule founded upon public
convenience, and the general course of business; and only requires that in common intendment and presumption the notice
is by such means as will be effectual. In the present case, the
notice was left at a private boarding house, where Hatch lodged;
which must he considered, to all intents and purposes, his
dwelling house. It was left, then, at the proper place; and if
the delivery had been to the master of the house, or to a servant of the house, there could be no doubt that it would have
been sufficient. Stedman v. Gooch, I Esp. Rep. 4. The notary called at the house, and upon inquiry of a fellow boarder
and inmate of the house, he was informed that Hatch was
not within; he then left the notice with the fellow boarder,
requesting him to deliver it to Hatch.
The latter must necessarily be understood, by receiving the
notice under such circumstances, impliedly to engage to make
the delivery. The question then is, whether such a notice so
delivered, does not afford as reasonable a presumption of its
being received as if delivered to a tenant of the house. This is
not like the case of a public inn, and a delivery to a mere
stranger who happens to be there in transitu, and cannot be
presumed to have any knowledge or intercourse with the party.
Boarders at the same house may be presumed to meet daily,
and to feel some interest in the concerns of each other, and to
perform punctually such common duties of civility as this.
In our large cities, many persons engaged in business live at
boarding houses in this manner. It is not always easy to obtain access to the master of the house, or to servants, who may
be safely entrusted with the delivery of notices of this sort.
A person who resides in the house upon a footing of equality
with all the guests, may well be supposed to feel a deeper interest in such matters, than a mere servant, whose occupations
are pressing and various, and whose pursuits do not lead him
VOL. VI.-" H

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of the United States v. Hatch.]

to place so high a value upon a scrupulous discharge of duty.
We think that a stricter rule would be found inconvenient, and
tend to subvert rather than to subserve the purposes of justice.
No case exactly in point has been cited at the bar. That of
Stedmaii v. Gooch, 1 Esp. Rep. 4, approaches near to it; but
there the notice was left with the woman who kept the house
at which the party was a lodger. No stress, however, seems
to have been laid upon this circumstance to distinguish it f, om
the case of a delivery to any other inmate of the house, either
servant or~fellow boarder.
The other question is one of more nicety, and not less important. It appears from the special verdict, that the contract
with Pearson, for the continuance of the suit on this very bill,
without judgment, until the next term of the circuit court, was
for a valuable consideration, and not a mere voluntary and discretionary exercise of authority on the part of the agents of
the bank. What, then, is to be deemed the true construction
of it? Did it amount to no more than an agreement, that that
particular suit should stand continued, leaving the bank at full
liberty to discontinue that on the morrow, at their discretion,
and to commence a new suit, and new proceedings for the
same debt? Or was it intended by the parties to suspend the
enforcement of any remedy for the debt for the stipulated
period, and rely solely on that suit for a recovery? We are
of opinion, that the intention of the parties apparent on the
contract, was to suspend the right to recover the debt, until
the next term of the court. It is scarcely possible that Pearson should have been willing to give a valuable consideration
for the delay of a term, and yet have intentionally left avenues
open to be harassed by a new suit in the interval. Indeed, no
other renedy, except in that particular suit, seems to have been
within the contemplation of either party. If the bank had
engaged for a like consideration, not to sue Pearson on the
bill for the same period, there could have been no doubt that
it would be a contract suspending all remedy. What substantial difference is there between such a contract, and a
contract to suspend a suit already commenced; w',ich is the
only apparent remedy for the recovery of the bill during the
same'perird? Is it not the natural, nay necessary intendment,
that the defendant shall have the full benefit of the whole pe-

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[B uk of tc United States v. Hatch.]

tiod as a delay of payment of the debt? It.is no answer that
a new suit would be attended with more delay. That might
or might not be the case, according to the different course of
practice in different states; and, at all events, it would harass
the party with new expenses of litigation. But the true inquiry is, whether the parties did or did not intend a surceasing of all legal proceedings during the period. We think,
that the just and natural exposition of the contract is that
they did.
If this, then, be the correct exposition of the contract, the
case clearly falls within the principle laid down by this court
in, MI'Lemore v. Powell, 12 Wheat. Rep. 554. That was the
ease of a voluntary agreement, without consideration, by-the
holder with the drawer of the bill for delay, after the parties
had been fixed by due notice of the dishonour of the bill.
The court held, that the agreement was not binding in point
of law, and therefore it did not exonerate the indorser. On
that occasion the court said, " we admit the doctrine, that,
although the indorser has received due notice of the dishonour
of the bill, yet if the holder afterwards enters into any new
agreement with the drawer for delay, in any manner changing
the nature of the original contract, or affecting the rights of the
indorser, or to the prejudice of the latter, it will discharge
him. But in order to produce such a result, the agreement must
be one binding in law upon the parties, and have a sufficient
consideration to support it," &c. "If the holder enters into
a valid contract for delay, he thereby suspends his own remedy
on the bill for the stipulated period, and if the indorser were
to pay the bill, he could only be subrogated to the rights of
the holder, and the drawer could or might have the same
equities against him, as against the holder himself. If, therefore, such a contract be entered into without his assent, it is
to his prejudice, and discharges him." The same reasoning
applies with full force to the present case. If the bank could
not have any remedy on the bill to recover payments, but was
bound to wait until the next term of the circuit court, the defendant Hatch, as indorser, could not, by paying the bill place
himhelf in a better situation. He would be liable to the same
equities, under the agreement suspending the remedy, as the
bank. The same principles which this court adopted in the

260

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of the United States v. Hatch.]

case of M'Lemore v. Powell, 12 Wheat. Rep. 554, will be
found illustrated and confirmed in an able opinion of Mr Chancellor Kent, in King -'. Baldwin, 2 Johns. Ch. Rep. 554, and
applied to a case between principal and surety. There are
other authorities to the same effect. Gould v. Robson, 8 East's
Rep. 576; Laxton v. Peat, 2 Camp. Rep. 1S8; Hubbly v.
Brown, 16 Johns. Rep. 70; Bayley on Bills, 234.
There is a recent case in England, which approaches very
near to the circumstances of the present case. We allude to
Lee v. Levi, 1 Carr. & Payne's Rep. 553. In that case the
holder, after suit brought against the accepter and the indorser,
had taken a cognovit of the accepter for the amount of the bill,
payable by instalments; and at the trial of the suit against the
indorser, Lord Chief Justice Abbott thought that this was a
giving time which discharged the indorser, and the jury found
a verdict accordingly. That ease afterwards came before the
whole court for revision; 6 Dowl. & Ry. C. Rep. 475: and was
then decided upon a mere collateral point, viz. that the defence
having arisen after suit brought against-the indorser, should
have been taken advantage of by special plea, and could not
be given in evidence under the general issue; so that the ruling
of the lord -chief justice was not brought directly into judgment. It was not, however, in any measure overruled.
Upon the whole, we are of opinion, upon the ground of the
agreement stated in the special verdict being a virtual discharge of the indorser, that the judgment of the circuit court
ought to be affirmed, with costs.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the circuit cburt of the United States for the district
of Ohio, and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof,
it is ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of
the said circuit court in this cause be, and the same is hereby
affirmed, with costs.

