SUPREME

OURT.

THE UNITED STATES v. THOMAS S. REYBURN.
Indictment against the defendant, charging him with having issued a commission
in the United States for a vessel, to the intent that the vessel might be employed in the service of a foreign people to cruise and commit hostilities against
the njperor of Brazil, with whom the United States were at peace, against
the ict of congress, &c. The second count charged the defendant with haring
delivered a commission to Iohn Chase for tte like purpose and intent. The
fourth count charged him with having issued a commission to Chase for the
like purpose. Evidence was given to prove that the vessel was built and fitted
out for Chase in Baltimore, that she changed her iiame, hoisted the Buenos
Ayrean flag at St Eustatia, and made a cruise under the command of Chase,
capturing vessels belonging to the subjects and government of Brazil. Ahqo,
that Chase bad been indicted for accepting in the district of Maryland a commission to cruise, and cruising with the said privateer against the subjects
and government bf Brazil; and that a bench warrafit had been repeatedly isqued
for him, but that he could not be found. The counsel for the United States
asked a competent witness, whether he saw a commission on board the ptivateer? Held that such evidence was admissible.
The evidence falls within the rule that where the non production of the written
instrument is satisfactorily accounted for, satisfactory evidence of its existence
and contents may be shown. This is a general rule of evidence applicable to
criminal as well as to civil suits: and a contrary rule not only might, but probably would render the law entirely nugatory; for the offender would only
have to destroy the commission, and his escape from punishment would be
certain.
The'rule as to the admission of secondary evidence does not require the strongest
possible evidence of the matter in dispute; but only that no evidence shall be
given, which, from the nature of the transaction, suppeses there is better evi'deuce of the fact attainable by the party. It is said' in the books, that the
ground of the rule is a suspicion of fraud; and if there is better evidence of the
fact which is withheld, a presumption arises that the party has some secret or
sinister motive in not producing it. Rules of evidence are adopted for practical purposes in the administration ofjustice; and must be so applied as to pro.
mote the ends for which they are designed.

THIS case came before the court, on a division of opinion by
the judges of the circuit court for the district of Maryland.
Thomas S. Reyburn, the defendant, was indicted under the
provisions of the third section of the act of congress, passed
April 20, 1818, entitled "an act in addition to the act f6r the
punishment of certain, crimes against the United States, and
to repeal the acts therein mentioned."
The indictment contained four counts; the questions on which
the judges of the circuit court were divided, were presented
under the first and second.

JANUARY'TERM 1832.
[United States v. Reyburn.]

The first count charged, that Thomas S. Reybur.n, the defendant, on the 1st day of July 1828, at the district of Maryland, within the territory and jurisdiction of the United States,
with force and arms did issue a commission for a certain vessel
called the Jane, otherwise called the Congresso, to the intent
that such vessel might be employed in the service of a foreign
people, that is to say, in the service of the United Provinces
of Rio de ]a Plata, -to cruise and commit hostilities against the
subjects and property of a foreign prince, that is to, say, his
imperial majesty, the constitutional emperor and perpetual defender of Brazil, with whom the United States then were and
still are at peace, against the form of the act of congress in such
case made and provided, and against-the peace, government
and dignity of the United States.
The second count was as follows:
And the jurors aforesaid, upon their oath aforesaid, do
further present, that the said Thomas G. Reyburn, on the day
and year aforesaid, at Zhe district aforesaid, within the territory and jurisdiction of the United States, and within the jurisdiction of this court, did with force and arms deliver a commission for a certain other 7essel, called the Jane, otherwise
called the Congresso, to the intent that such vessel might be
employed in the service of a foreign people, that is to say, the
service of the United Provinces of Rio de la Plata, to cruise
and commit hostilities against the subjects and property of a
foreign prince, that is to say, against the subjects and property
of his imperial majesty, the constitutional emperor and perpetual defender of Brdzil, with whom the United States then
were and still are at peace, against the form of the act of congress in such case made and provided, and against the peace,
government and dignity of the United States.
On the trial of the cause, the United States offered in evidence, that theprivateer referred to in the indictment was built
and fitted out in the port of Baltimore in the district of Maryland, for a certain John Chase, also therein mentioned: that
the Jane was commanded from the port of Baltimore- to St
Barts, thence to St Eustatia in the West Indies, and the crew,
was shipped in said port of Baltimore, at the re5 uest of Franklin Chase, a brother of said John Chase, the saidFranklin.
Chase being the only person kiown to the shipper-of the emew;
VOL.- VL.-2 U

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Reyburn.]

that she sailed from the said port to the West Indies, undei
the name of the Jane, that at St Eustatia the said vessel hoisted
Buenos Ayrean colours, changed her name to that of the Congresso, and performed a cruise, under the command of Lhe said
John Chase, exercising therein acts of hostility against the
subjects and governmentof Brazil.
The United States further gave in evidence, from the records
of this court, that the aforesaid John Chase stood indicted for
a misdemeanour for acL 'pting in the district of Maryland a commission to cruise, and ]or cruising with the said privateer
against the government and subjects of the empire of Brazil;
that a bench warrant had been repeatedly issued out against said
Chase, but that he could not be found, and the process was
always returned non est inventus.
Whereupon the counsel for the United States proceeded to
inquire of a legal and competent witness, whether he saw a
commission on board the said privateer? But the traverser,
by his counsel, objected to the admissibility of any evidence
relative to the character or the contents of the said commission, because the commission was not produced by the United
States or'obtained from any witness, nor a copy procured from
the public archives of Buenos Ayres, nor its destruction proved,
nor any efforts to procure it shown by the United States.
And the judges of the aforesaid court, being opposed in
opinion upon the admissibility of the said evidence, do at the
request of the attorney of the United States for the district of
Maryland, state and certify their said opposition in opinion to
the supreme court of the United States, according to the act of
congress in such case made and provided.
The case was argued for the United States by Mr Williams,
district attorney of the United States for the Maryland district, and Mr Taney, attorney-general, for the United States;
and a written argument, on behalf of the defendant, was submitted to the court by Mr M'Mahon, and Mr Glenn.
For the United States it was argued, that the material facts
in the.case were, that the commission, of the contents of which
,ne United States proposed to give evidence without producing
it, was seen on board of the privateer in the service of Buenos Ayres, commanded by captain John Chase.

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[United States v. Reybum.]

No exertions of the United States, and no process of the
couit could compel its production. And Chase himself, who
was in possession of it, if within the reach of the process of
the court, would not be bound to produce it; because it would
tend to criminate himself, and convict him on an indictment
then pending against him. It is a case, then, in which no exertions of the party, and np process from the court would enable
them to produce the commission itself. It was absolutely out
of their power to obtain it.
The rule of evidence is, that in a case of this sort, the
written evidence must itself be produced, if it is in the power
of the party, by any reasonable exertions on his part to procure it. But if lie is not in fault and no reasonable exertions
on his part will enable him to obtain the writing itself, he may
then offer parol evidence of its contents. Indeed the rule may
justly be stated, still more generally. And where the highest
and best evidence the nature of the case admits of, is out of the
reach of the party, without his fault, he may resort to secondary evidence..
Where a subscribing witness to an instrument is dead, or
out of the reach of the process of the court, his hahd writing
may be proved. 1 Stark. Ev. 338. 'And where a witness
becomes incapacitated, so as to put it out of the power of the
party to obtain the testimony. 2 Esp. Rep. 697. The witness had maried the plaintiff.
It.may be said, that these cases merely apply to instrumental
witnesses.
The principle is the same. It is, that secondary evidence is
received, because it is not iq the power of the party to offer
the best. The best evidence would be the witness himself:
but as that testimony could not be procured, the secondary
evidence, proof of his hand-writing, is received.
The
The same rule applies to the instrument itself.
writing is the best evidence; but if it is not in the power of
the party to produce it, he may offer secondary ,evidence, that
is parol evidence of its contents. Parol evidence may' be given
of instruments in the possession of the party. 1 Stark. Ev.
361; Arch. Plead. Evid. 72; 13 Johns. Rep. 90; 1 Phil.
Ev. 39; 1 Leach's C. C. 330; 17 Johns. Rep. 330. It is not
the notice that makes the evidence admissible. The notice is

356

SUPREME COURT,
[United States v. Reyburn.]

required to prevent fraud and surprise. The secondary evidence is admitted, because it is out of the power of the party
to procure it. He cannot by any exertions compel the production of it.
This being the case with instruments in possession of the
adversary, why will not the same rule apply to instruments in
the possession of any other person; provided the party requiring them is equally incapable of procuring them ? There is
no distinction in principle, and the authorities show that there
has been no distinction in practice. 9 Petersd. 159, note.
Whenever the instrument is out of tha power of the party,
secondary evidence may be-produced. On an indictment for
detaining a bill of exchange, under pretence of getting it discounted for the party; it was proved to be in the hands of
another party who refused to produce it. Parol evidence was
received of its contents. 9 Petersd, 162; 1 Leach's C. Law,
330 (272).

Commonwealth v. Snell, 3 Mass. Rep. 85. This was an
indictment for passing a forged note, and a copy was received
in evidence. The rule is there laid down, "that if an instrument cannot be produced, the prosecutor being in no fault, the
next best evidence will be admissible."
A copy of ariobligation made at Carraccas and certified
by a notary, was received in evidence. Mauri v. Heffernan, 13
Johns. Rep. 58. In this case no doubt is expressed about the
propriety of receiving secondary evidence. The only doubt
was, whether the notarial copies should form a part of the
secondary evidence. A written contract, deposited with a third
person in the state of Ohio by the parties, may be proved by
the depositary, without producing the original. A copy was
proved by him under a commission. Bailey v. Johnson, 9
Cowen, '115.

The following case recognizeb the authority of the cases
before referred to; but seems to make it necessary that the third
party should have the possession .from or under the person
against whom it is proposed to use it. Judge Tilghman's
opinion supports substantially the principle contended for.
The evidence was refused on the ground of policy. Judge
Yeates's opinion appears to narrow the principle. Gry v.
Pentland, 2 Serg. & Rawle; 31.

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[United States v. Reyburn.]

Notice in this case would have been an idle ceremony; the
defendant could not produce it, and the evidence of the United
States shows that they could not produce it. It would be absurd
to notify him to do what it is admitted he could not accomplish. 13Johns. Rep. 58. .3 Mass. Rep. 85. 9 Cowen, 115.
But in this case notice would not have been necessary even
if the defendant had been in possession of the commission.
14 East, 274. 13 Johns. Rep. 93. 3 Mass. 85. 9 Petersd.
159, note. 9 Peterd. 162.
It is objected that no efforts were made to procure it. Exertions are required only where there is a reasonable prospect of success; not where it is previously known that they
must be unavailing.
What means could the United States use to get this commission? What process would have brought captain Chase
before the court? If he was before the court, would any cburt
compel him to produce the commission. As all efforts would
have "been unavailing, the law will not require that which can
accomplish nothing. It does not require that which must be
but a vain effort, and can produce no result.
It is also objected that a copy might have been procured from
the government of Buenos Ayres.
1. Had we a right to demand a copy? Were the government bound to give it to us? 2. 'ras there any reason to
suppose that it would have been given as a matter of comity?
Would they give it to assist a prosecution, in a foreign country,
to punish one of their own commanders? 3. If they gave a
copy of a commission to that vessel and that officer, how would
that prove it to be a copy of the one seen by the witness?
How would it prove that it was a copy of one issued in Baltimore? 4. There is no evidence that those commissions are
recorded in any office in Buenos Ayres. 5. From the nature
of the transaction charged in the indictment, they cannot be
supposed tQ be recorded; for if they are issued in Baltimore,
they must be sent to an agent in blank; for the name of the
'vessel and the captain could not'be known to the government,
and the government would hardly give a copy to prove itself
guilty of such conduct. 6. But suppose a copy under seal to
be produced, the seal would hot prove itself; it must be proved
by parol. United States v. Palmer, 3 Wheat. 695. See the

SUPREME COURT.
EUnited States v. Reybum.]

ob ection in that case in page 615. '4e Estrella, 4 Wheat.
504.
If, therefore, a copy under seal could have been procured,
the verity of it must have depended on parol evidence. It
would be proved by parol, that the contents of the original
were the same with the copy produced. If the witness proves
the contents in any other way, is it not equally admissible?
the copy certified, would not be a copy examined by a witness. The truth of it would depend on the certifying officer.
And before an examined capy is required, there must be
grounds for asserting that &copy is there, and there must he
reasonable grounds for supposing that an examined copy would
have been furnished for the purposes of this indictment.
It would seem that the commission of a privateer, or the
character of a vessel, may be proved without producing the
commission or a copy under seal. 3 Wheat. 615, 635. And
where the commission is proved to be lost, the court has
admitted parol testir iony of its character and contents, without
insisting on endeavours to procure a copy. The Estrella, 4
Wheat. 298, 303.
The counsel for the defendant contended, that the evidence
offered in this cause, concerning which the judges of the court
below differed in opinion, was inadmissible. 1. Because the
evidence so offered was of a secondary character. 2. Because
the facts proved did not present a proper case for the admission
ot secondary evidence. 3. Because the evidence offered was
not the next best evidence, of which the nature of the case admitted.
1st point The offence imputed to the traverser, as described
in all the counts of this indictment, is defined by the act of
congress of 20th April 1818: and to the establishment of the
offence as there defined,, it should appear that the traverser,
with a view to the employment of the vessel in question, in the
manner and for the purposes charged, had issued or delivered
for such vessel, a wrtten warrant or authorityfor such
.employment, emanating in fact from the government of
the United Provincesof .Rio de la Plata. The word "commission," ex vi termini, imports a written authority from a
competent source, given to any person as his warrant for the

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[United States v. Reyburn.]

exercise of the powers which it delegates. The act of" issuing or delivering" the commission being the offence, the statute manifestly relates only to a written, or to what is the same
thing, a printed authority; and entirely excludes the notion
Lhat a mere verbal authority is within its provisions. The
nature and objects of the act of 1818, also clearly indicate,
that the commission, to be such, must emanate from a government competent to give it; and must in fact authorise the employment of the vessel in the manner charged. That act has
for its objects the preservation of our neutral relations, and the
strict enforcement of the obligations of all persons being within
the limits of our country to respect its neutral character: and
in the instance under consideration, to effect these objects it
prohibits belligerent nations or their agents, from commissioning any persons within our territory for the prosecution of their
warfare. The delivery of a mere pseudo-commission, whatever it may be, is no violation of neutrality within the meaning of this act; nor is the offence here charged established, as"
has been contended, by the mere use of a paper purpoiting to
be a commission, in the manner and for the purposes charged*
This offence consists in, and is complete by the act of issuing
or delivering the commission for the purposes charged; without
reference to the use which may afterwards be made of it, and
even if it never be used. It rests solely upon the nature and
efficacy of the cGmmission alleged to have been issued or delivered, and the intent in issuing or delivering it. The written
document, the commission itself,must therefore be produced,
that it may appear, or be proved to be what it is alleged
to be.
The case at bar is also clearly within the general rule of the
criminal law. "That written instruments, where they form
the gist, or a part of the gist of the offence charged, must be
set forth or recited in the indictment, and that if not so set
forth, the reason for such omission must appear upon the face
of the indictment." Illustrations of this general rule will be
found in the cases of forgery, for which see 1 East's Rep. 180.
2 Leach's C. L. 657, 808. 2 East's C: Law, 975. Commonwealth v. Houghton, S Mass. Rep. 107: and cases of libels,,
threatening letters and challenges. Of indictments for not obeying the orders or warrants of justices of the peace: 2 Chitty's

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Reyburn.1

C. Law, Eng. ed. 263, 283. Of indictments or selling foreigii
lottery tickets, in the cases of State of Maryland v. Scribner,
and Same v. Barker, /k Gill and Johnson's Md. Rep. 252,
the rule, its reasons, hnd the exceptions to it, are perspicu
ously stated. If, then, this case be one in which it is necessary that the indictment should have set forth the commission, or have assigned some sufficient reason for the omission,
the tommission itself is clearly the primary testimony, and
should have been produced at the trial, if that were practicable.
These remarks upon this point have been deemed necessary,
only because the contrary doctrine was strenuously contended
for in the court below.
2d point. The general rule as to the admission of secondary
evi4ence of the contents of a written instrument is, that such
evidence may be received where the wrtten instrument has
been lost or destroyed, or there is proof to warrant the presumption of its loss or destruction; or where it is in the possession of the defendant, and notice has been given to him to
produce it, or the action or indictment charges him with the
possession of it. The present case is without this rule. There
is no evidence of loss or destruction of the commission; and
the character of the instrument, as one highly important to the
persons exercising it, forbids the presumption, in the absence
of all proof, that it has been lost or destroyed. In this instance,
the secondary evidence is alleged to be admissible, because the
commission is supposed to have been traced to the possession
of a third person, not charged by this indictment, whose attendahee as a witness to produce the commission, or prove its
loss- or destruction, cannot be procured. It may therefore be
questioned, whether it is not more properly a'case of defective
proof, than one of secondary evidence. Jackson ex dem.
Livingsion, 16 Johns. Rep. 192.
But conceding the case to be, analogous to those in which
secondary evidence has been admitted, in the absence of the
attesting witness, to prove the execution of a bondi &c. and to
which it has been assimilated, there should have been full
proof of diligent efforts on the part of the government to procure the attendance of the third person, to whose possession it
is said to.have been-traced. Such evidence is necessary to let
in the proof either of the existence or of the contents of the

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[United States v. Reybum.]

commission. The King v. The Inhabitants of Castleton, 6
Term Rep. 236. Williams land others v."Younghusband, 1
Starkie's Rep. 139. It should have been proved, either that
the witness was without the jurisdiction of the court, as in the
cases of Prince v. Blackburn, 2 East's Rep. 250, and Hodnett
v. Toman, 1 Starkie's Rep.; or that diligent efforts had been
made to find him, which had failed. Cunliffe v. Sefton, 2
East. 183. In this case no such proof was offered, nor was
even a subpoena issued to procure the attendance of Chase.
The government relies solely upon the pendency of an indictment against Chase, and the return of non est inventus to the
process upon that indictment. The rule in question, however,
requires the proof of due diligence to procure the attendance of
the witness, in the particularcase; and the want of it cannot
be supplied by the proof, that such diligence, used in another
case, has failed to procure his attendance. Had Chase been
whnted as a witness in any cause in which no subpcena had
been issued, nor any efforts made to procure his attendance,
the fact that he had been summoned in other causes, and that
his attendance could not be procured in those causes, would
have furnished n6 ground for the continuance of the cause in
which he had not been summoned. Diligence used in one
cause, cannot be reflected upon another; so as to excuse negligence in the latter. Where proof of diligent efforts to procure
a witness is necessary, it must, as well in cases where secondary evidence is to be leb in, as in those where the trial is to be
suspended because of his absence; apply to the particular case.
A contrary doctrine might lead to the grossest abuses. In the
present instance, the proof offered is used to- raise a presumption, where the fact to be presumed, if it did exist, might have
been fully established. Chase was a resident of Baltimore,
and there fitted out the vessel in question. The court will not
presume that he was without the jurisdiction of the court below, or that his attendance could not have been procured by
diligent efforts, from the mere return of process in another
case; when with due diligence in this case, the facts to be
presumed, if they existed, might have been expressly established.
It is submitted, also, in connexion with this branch of the
subject, that the evidence offered, goes only to the fact that a
VOL. VL-2 V

SUPREME COURT.
(United States v, Reyburn.]

commission was seen in the vessel. There is no proof that it
was Chase's property, and none tracing it to his possession
then or at any other period. Non constat, that it was then,
has been since, or is now in his possession; and until this shall
appear, there is no foundation for the introduction of this testimony, because of his alleged absence.
3d point. The evidence offered is not the proper secondary
evidence, because it is not the next best evidence of the existence and contents of the commission, of which the nature of
the case admits. The paper in question is a written act of
state, emanating from a foreign and recognised government,
and one of which the court will presume, in the absence of all
proof to the contrary, there remains with the government
issuing it, a record or duplicate. The rule as to the proper
proof of foreign written laws, will here apply. Such laws
must be proved by the production of an authenticated copy;
or if.that cannot be had, of a sworn copy. Hulle v. Heightman, 4 Esp. Rep. 75; Clegg v. Levy, 3 Camp. 166; Miller v.
Heinrick, 4 Camp. 155; Consequa v. Willing and others,
1 Peters's C.,C. Rep. 225; Robinson v. Clifford, 2 Wash. C.
C. Rep. 2. And the courts will not presume that an authenticated copy, or a sworn copy cannot be had, until proof made,
that due efforts were used to obtain it, which had failed: Seton
v. The Delaware Insurance Company, 2 Wash. C. C. Rep.
176; and also Church v. Hubbard, 2 Cranch, 236 to 239.
The 'same principle is applicable to the acts of state of a
foreign government; note (a) to Buchanan v. Rucker, 1 Camp.
65. It is a general rule that when an original document is
lost, the next best evidence of it is an authenticated or examined copy, which, if it exists, and can be found, must be
produced: United States v. Britton, 2 Mason's C. C. R. 468.
So where two or more parts of a deed have been executed, the
loss or destruction of all the parts should be pro-ed before
secondary evidence of its contents can be received. Bull. N.
P. 254; 6 T. R. 236. If, therefore, it was proved that there
was a record or duplicate of the commission in the archives of
the government of Buenos Ayres; before parol evidence could
be offered of its contents, it would be necessary to prove that
ad authenticated or examined copy could not be had. In this
case, the court will presume that there is such a record; it

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[United States v. Reybum.]

being the usage of all governments to preserve some record of
their public acts and commissions. The courts have presumed
as to laws, from their nature and objects, that they were written, and that copies of them could be procured. Cases above
cited from 2 Wash. C. C. Rep. 176.
The rules here stated, as to the introduction of secondary
evidence, apply as well to criminal as to civil cases; nor is the
necessity for producing Chase as the witness, in whose possession the commission is said to have been, or for using due
eForts to procure his attendance, dispensed with. by the suggestion, even if founded in fact, that the production of that
commission might tend to criminate Chase himself. The privilege of refusing to answer on that ground; is one, personal to
Chase himself, of which he may avail himself or not at his
pleasure; and does not affect his competency as a witness, or
establish the presumption, that the primary testimony could
not be obtained by producing him as a witness.
Mr Justice THoipsoN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case comes up from the circuit court for the district of
Maryland on a certificate of division of opinion, touehing the
admission of testimony offered on the part of the United States,
in support of the prosecution.
The indictment against the prisoner contains several counts.
The first chprges.him with having, en the 1st day of July
1.928, at the district of Maryland, within the territory and
jurisdiction of the United States, issued a commission for a
certain vessel called the Jane, otherwise the Congresso, to the
intent that such vessel might be employed in the service of a
foreign people, that is to say, in the service of the United
Provinces of Rio de ]a Plata, to cruise and commit hostilities
against the subjects and property of a foreign prince, that is
to say, his imperial majesty the constitutional emperor and
perpetual defender of Brazil, with whom the United States
were at peace, against the farm of the act of congress in such
case made and provided.
The second count charges him with having delivered a commission for the Jane, with the like intent. The third charges
him with having delivered a commission to one John Chase
for the Jane, for the like purpose and with the like intent.

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Reyburn,]

The fourth charges him with having issued a commission to
John Chase for the Jane, for the like purpose and with the
like intent. There are some other counts, laying the offence
in different ways, which are unimportant for the present question.
In support of the prosecution, it was proved, that the privateer referred to in the indictment was built and fitted out in
the port of Baltimore for a certain John Chase. That the
Jane sailed from the port of Baltimore for the West Indies,
and at St Eustatia she hoisted Buenos Ayrean colours, changed
her name to that of the Congresso, and performed a cruise
under the command of John Chase, exercising therein acts of
hostility against the subjects and government of Brazil.
It was also given in evidence, on the part of the United
States, that the said Chase stood indicted in that court for a
misdemeanour for accepting, in' the district of Maryland, a
commission to cruise, and with cruising with the said privateer
against me subjects and government of Brazil. That a bench
warrant had been repeatedly issued out against the said Chase,
but that he could not be found, and the process was always
returped non est inventus. Whereupon the counsel for the
United States proceeded to inquire of a competent witness,
whether he saw a commission on board the said privatccr.
But the traverser, by his counsel, objected to the admissibility
of any evidence relative to the character or contents of the said
commission, because the commission was not produced by the
United States, or obtained from any witness, nor a copy procured from the public archives of Buenos Ayres, nor its destruction proved, nor any efforts to procure it shown by the
United States.
Upon the admissibility of the said evidence the judges were
opposed in opinion, and the question comes here for decision.
The objections to the admissibility of the evidence have
been submitted to the court under the following heads.
1. Because the evidence so offered was of a secondary character.
2. Because the facts proved did not present a proper case
for the admission of secondary evidence.
•3. Because the evidence offered was not the next best evidence of which the nature of the case admitted.

JANUARY TERM 1832.
EUnited States v. Reybura.]

It is undoubtedly true that the evidence offered was of a
secondary character. The primary evidence would have been
the commission itself. The word commission, ex vi termini,
imports a written authority; and the offence under this part of
the act of congress (6 Vol. L. U. S. 321, sect. 3) consists in
issuing or delivering a commission for any ship or vessel with
intent that she may be employed, &c.; and there is no doubt
it must be shown to have been a commission emanating from
the government of the United Provinces of Rio de la PlaTa, as
alleged in the indictment, and it mustat least purport to be a
valid, subsisting commission, and intended as the authority
under which the vessel was to cruise. But all these inquiries
relate to the sufficiency of the eVidence to establish these facts,
not to its competency. The former belongs to "the jury to
decide; the latter to the court. Whether it could have been
shown that the commission about which the inquiry was made
was a document coming within the indictment, and necessary
to be proved in order to establish the offence, does not compe
within the question sent up to this court. The argun- n
however, against the admissibiiity of the evidence, goe the
length of contending that nothing short of the commission
itself will furnish the necessary evidence.
We think the objection in this respect not well founded;
but that the case falls within the rule, that when th. non production cf the written instrument is satisfactorily, accounted
for, secondary evidence of its existence and contents may be
shown. This is a general rule of evidence applicable to criminal as well as civil suits. And there can be no reason why
it should not apply to cases like the present. And, indeed, a
contrary rule not only might, but probably would, render the
law entirely nugatory, for the offender would only have t9
destroy the commission, and his escape from punishment would
be certain.
Under this head of the objection, it haz been argued, that
the commission should have been set out or recited in the indictment, or the reason for the omission should appear on the
face of the indictment. If there is any ground whatever for
this objection (which we are far from intimating), thepoint
cannot be made here under the question sent up from the circuit court. If well founded, it must be presented in some

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Reyburn]

other form. We are now confined to the question on which
the opinions of the judges were opposed, and the sufficiency
of the indictment forms no part of that question. The objection went to the admissibility of any evidence relative to the
character or contents of the commission; because it was not
produced, or its non production sufficiently accounted for: and
this brings us to the second head of inquiry, viz. whether the
facts proved presented a proper case for the admission of secondary evidence.
The facts which had been proved were, that the privateer
was built and fitted out in the port of Baltimore for John Chase.
The crew was shipped at Baltimore by Franklin Chase, the
brother of John Chase. That she sailed from the port of Baltimore for the West Indies under the name of the Jane, and
at St Eustatia she hoisted Buenos Ayrean colours, and changed
her name to that of the Congresso; and performed a cruise
under the command of the said John Chase, exercising therein
acts of hostility against the subjects and government of Brazil.
That Chase stood indicted in the same court for a misdemeanour for accepting a commission, and cruising with the said
privateer against the government and subjects of Brazil; and
that a bench warrant had been repeatedly issued against him,
but he could not be found.
This evi'dence established very clearly, that this vessel was
fitted out and cruising in violation of the law of the United
States, and that she was under the command of John Chase.
It is reasonable, therefore, to presume that the commission on
board the privateer was the authority under which Chase acted.
He was the person most interested in retaining the possession
of the commission; and the law will presume it to be in his
custody, when there is no proof to the contrary; and to him,
therefore, application should be made for it. The law points
to him a the depository of this document, and search for it in
any other place would not amount to that due diligence to
procure the primary evidence which would be necessary in
order to let in the secondary evidence.
But if all reasonable diligence has been used to find it at the
place where the law presumes it to be, no more can be required
for the purpose of letting in the secondary evidence.
Has that been done? The person whom the law charges with

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[United States v. Reyburn.]

the custody of the paper stands indicted for an offence against
the same law; process has been repeatedly issued against him
to have him apprehended, without effect. This was all the
effort to find him that could reasonably be required. A subpcena to compel his attendance as a witness would have availed
nothing, and the law does not require the performance of an
act perfectly nugatory. But suppose Chase had been within
the reach of a subpoena, and had actually attended the court,
h Could not have been compelled to produce the commission,
and thereby furnish evidence against himself. All the means,
therefore, that could have been used to produce the commission
itself, were exhausted.
But it has, in the third: place, been argued, that admitting
enough had been shown to lay the foundation for the admission
of secondary evidence, that which was offered was not the
best evidence of which the nature of the case admitted.
The rule of evidence does not require the strongest possible
evidence of the matter in disputei but only that no evidence
shall be given which, from the nature of the transaction, supposes there is better evidence of the fact attainable by the
party. It is said in the books, that the ground of the rule is a
3uspicion of fraud, and if there is better evidence of ihe fact,
which is withheld, a presumption arises, that the party has
some secret or sinister motive in not producing it. Rules of
evidence are adopted for practical purposes in the administration of justice; and must be so applied, as to promote the ends
for which they are designed. It has been said, that according
to this rule recourse should have been had to the records of
the Buenos Ayrean government for a copy of the commission.
If it should be admitted that a record is there to be found of
this instrument, and that on application a copy of it might have
been procured, it would be carrying the rule to pretty extravagant lengths to require the application to be made. But
there is nothing in this case showing that 'any such record
exists. Nor can this court presume as matter of law, that a
record of such commission, as filled up, would be found theie.
And, indeed, from the nature of the transaction, the contrary
is the reasonable presumption. It is not unlikely that" the
Buenos Ayrean government may have some record of the
names of persons to whom commissions had been issued. But

SUPREME COURT.
[United States Y.Reyburn.]

the course of the transaction almost necessarily implies, that
the commissions issued here were sent out in blank, as to the
names of persons and vessels, and the mere formal parts of the
commission would have furnished no evidence whatever. So
that there is no reasonable ground to conclude that a record
of this commission existed from which a copy might have been
made. But if that should be admitted, it does not bring the
case within the rule. The evidence must be attainable, or
within the power of the party who is called upon to produce
it; and, from the nature of this transaction, there is no reason
to conclude that such was the case here; butthe contrary is
fairly to be inferred. It must have been a voluntary act on
the part of the foreign government to have permitted a copy
to be taken; and it is unreasonable to suppose that such permission would have been given. It would have been voluntarily furnishing evidence against its own agents, employed to
violate our laws; and no comity of nations could have required
this.
We are accordingly of opinion that the evidence offered was
admissible, and direct it to be so certified to the circuit court.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the district of Maryland, and on the points and questions on which the judges
of the saicT circuit court were opposed in opinion, and which
were certified to this Court for its opinion, agreeably to the act
of congress in such case made and provided, and was argued
by counsel; on consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this
Court, that the evidence offered was admissible.. Whereupon
it is ordered and adjudged by this Court, that it be certified to
the said circuit court that the evidence offered in this cause
was admissible.

