JANUARY TERM 1832.

151

SgTH SPRING AND OTHERS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR V. THE
ExxcuToRs OF WLIA GRAY, DEFmNDAWTS IN ERROR.
The master of a ship, who with the other members of a mercantile house were
owners of the vessel which he commanded, vith the approbation of the grm,
signed a bill of lading to deliver certain articles of merchandize, tha property of
the shipper, at the port of destination of the vessel, "freight to be paid for the
goods as per agreement indorsed." The agreement indorsed was,that the owners
of the ship should have, as the freight of the ship, one half of the net Drofits oh
the proceeds of the goods, which were to be invested in a return cargo, to be
consigned to and sold by the shipper. The proceeds of the outward cargo
were received by the shipper, part in goods, and part in money; a portion of
the cargo having been left unsold by the vessel where they were delivered.
The transaction was made the subject of an account cflrrent by the owners of
the vessel with the-shipper'of the goods, and a large balance was claimed to
be due to them on the said account. The shipment was made in May 1810,
and in May 1829, a suit was instituted for the recovery of the balance, stated
to be due on an account current. The defendants, the executors of the
shipper, pleaded the statute of limitations of the state of Maine. The defend.
ants replied, that the accounts and promises arose "from such accounts as
concern the trade of merchandise between merchant and merchant, their factors and servants." The plaintiffs admitted they had no other cause of action
than such as arose front the bill of lading, and the contract indorsed thereon.
Held, that the bill of lading and the contract were not sufficient to maintain
the issue joined on the part of the plaintiffs in respect to the replication of merchants' accounts,
The statute of limitations of Maine is copied from the 21st of James I., and its
words are, "all actions qf account and upon the case, other than sutch accounts as concern the trade of merchandise, between merchant and merchant,
their factors or servants, &c. shall be commenced." It would seem to be the
necessary construction of these words that the action on the case to which the
exception applies, must be founded on an account. The language of the act
conveys the same meaning as if it had been "1allactions of account, and all
actions on the case, other than such as are founded on such accounts as con.
cern the trade of merchandise," &c. The foundation of the action ritust be
an account, r,ot a contract.
From the association of actions on the case, a remedy given by the, law for almost every claim for money, and for the redress of every breach of contract
not under seal, with actions of account, which lie only in a few special cases;
it may reasonably be conceived that the legislature had in contemplation to
except those irticles only for which account would lie. The words certainly
imply that the action should be founded on an account. The account must
be one which concerns the trade of merchandise.
The case presented by the exception is not every transaction between merchant
and merchant; not every account which might exist between them; but it
muat concern the trade of merchandise. It is not an exemption from the act,
attached to the merchant, merely as a personal privilege; but an exemption
which is conferred on the business as well as on the persons between whom
that business is carried on. The accounts must concern the trade of merchan-

SUPREME COURT.
[Spring and others v. The Executors of Gray.]
dise; and the trade must be, not an ordinary traffic between a merchant and
any ordinary customer, but between merchant and merchant.
The " trade of merchandise which can present an account protected by the exception, must be not only between merchant and merchant, but between the
plaintiff and defendant. The account-the business of merchandize which
produces it, must be between them.
A charter party, a contract by which the owner lets his vessel to another for
freight, does not change its character because the parties happen to be merchants. It is still a special contract, whereby a compensatlon is stipulated for
a service to be perfornaed; and not an "account concerning the trade of merchandize." It Is no more "an account," and no more connected with "the
trade of merchandise" than a bill of exchange, or contract for the rent of a
house or hire of a carriage, or other single transaction which might take place
between individuals who happen to be merchants. An entry of it in the
books of either could not change its nature, and convert it from an insulated
transaction between individuals into an account concerning the trade of merchandize between merchant and merchant. They must depend on the nature
and character of the transaction, not on the books in which either party may
choose to enter a memorandum or statement of it.
The English casts certainly do not oppose the construction given by the court to
the words of the statute: the American cases,as far as they go,are in favour of it.
On a commercial question especially, or one deeply interesting to merchants, and
to merchants only; the settled law of New York is entitled to great respect.

ERROR to the circuit court of the United States for the district of Maine.
This action was originally instituted in March 1829, by the
plaintifflsin error, who survived Andrew M. Spring, their copartner, in the court of common pleas of the county of York,
in the state of Maine, by process of attachment; and was removed to the circuit court of the United States, upon the petition of the defendants.
The action was assumpsit; and in the declaration the first
count was for the balance of an account current, which account
was annexed to the writ. The second count was for money
had and received.
The defendants pleaded the general issue, which was joined;
and also the statute of limitations. The plaintiffs, to their pleas
of the statute, replied that "' the accounts and promises arose
from such accounts as concern the trade of merchandise between merchant and merchant, their factors and servants;" and
issue was tako;n on the replication.
The declaration described1 the plaintiffs as copartners on the
let day of July 1821, "transacting business as merchants in the
name of Seth Spring and Company." The defendants' intestate
was described, as "William Gray, late of Boston, deceased."
The account annexed to the writ was as follows:

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Spring and others v. The Executors of Gray.]
CO)

Cl)

-Cf)

4)

C.

tt

C'.

e.

)C

zz
a) r.

b

a)

O4

-4-

C

Co

=

00

04

0

0

Ol

0M0

0

0
0

00
CDt~
0
M

0

0

00

vo
OD'

00
-lt

-

Q

C%

Cd

C Q

02.

ol

-.

-

0

"0C

Q

g:

m

m0

-.

-0
4

Co V;4

&1L

0

0'VI.).-U-P

CS
C

a.)4

Mo*0

a

4

-Xr."0

dd.z

1J2.4

*C)0

Ca~.

En-~

00

s

SUPREME COURT.
[Spring and others v. The Executors of Gray.]

This account grew out of a special contract between the
parties; and the evidence and instructions of the court to the
jury were set forth in a bill of exceptions; which stated that
the plaintiffs, to maintain the issues on their part, offered in
evidence and read to the jury:
• A bill of lading of the outward cargo of the Morning Stir,
signed by Andrew M., Spring, with the amount or contract on
the back of it, signed by William Gray and Seth Spring and
Sons. The bill of lading wa& in the usual form, and stipulated
that the cargo should be delivered at Algiers, to Andrew M.
Spring, the freight to be paid as per agreement indorsed on
the same. The agreement was as follows:
The propeeds of the within cargo, amounting to thirty-five
thousand' two hundred and two dollars eighty-three cents, as
per invoice, costs And charges, is to be invested in Algiers or
some other port (after deducting all charges, consignee's commission includedi except freight and premium of insurance
within, of which two last mentioned charges are to be made
on the goods), and returned in the said barque Morning Star
to Boston, when Seth Spring and Sons (owners of said barque)
are to recover one half of the net profits thereon, in lieu of
freight and primage, the voyage round. The consignee's commissions to be two and a half per cent on the sales of the
within. cargo; and no commissions to be charged in Boston
except what is paid an auctioneer.
SETH SPrNG &AND SONS,
WILLIAM GRAY.

%a5,202 83.
Also letters of instructions addressed by William Gray to
Andrew M. Spring, relative to the voyage of the Morning Star;
and also the correspondence on the accounts of Andrew M.
Spring, and of the consignees and others relative to the transaction. The plaihtiffs' counsel having closed their evidence,
they were inquired of by the court whether they had any other
cause of action than such as arose from the bill of lading of the
outward cargo of the barque Morning Star, and the contract
indorsed thereon; answered that they had not.
And 'thereupon the defendants' counsel moved the court to
instruct the jury, that inasmuch as the plaintiffs had admitted
that their whole cause of action arose from said bill of lading

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Spring and others v. The Executors of Gray.]

and contract indorsed thereon; the said bill of lading, and contract, with the other papers, documents, and testimony aforesaid, were not sufficient evidence, in point of law, to maintain
the issue joined on the part of the plaintiffs ia respect to their
replication of merchants' accounts.
The plaintiffs' counsel objected to such instructions, anct
prayed the court to instruct the jury, that the evidence introduced waq sufficient to prove, and did prove, the issue last
aforesaid on the part of the plaintiffs.
But the court instructed the jury that inasmuch as the plaintiffs had admitted that'their whole cause of action arose from
said last mentioned bill of lading, and contract indorsed thereon; the said bill of lading and contract, with the other papers,
documents, and testimony aforesaid, were not sufficient evidence, in point of law, to maintain the issue last aforesaid on
the part of the plaintiffs.
And thereupon the jury returned their verdiat for the defendants on this issue; anid upon the general issue, they found
no verdict.
The court gave a judgment for the defendants; and the plaintiffs prosecuted this writ'of error.
The case was argued by Mr Evans for the plaintiffs; and by
AIr Webster for the defendants.
The plaintiffs contended, 1. That the question whether the
accounts in suit were such as coneerned the trade of merchandise, was a question for the jury solely; which they should
have been at liberty to consider. And, 2. That the accounts
in suit are within the exception of the statute.
For the plaintiffs, it was argued, by Mr Evans, tnat the direction of tI e court to return a verdict for the uefendants was erroneous; as the question whether the accounts between the plaintiffs and the defendants' testator were, or were not," merchants'
accounts" was one of fact and not of law; and therefore proper
for the jury exclusively. Bass v. Bass, .8 Pickering, 187.
The main question in the case is, whether the account and
the agreement, taken together, do not amount to an account
between merchant and merchant, within the exception in the
statute of limitations of merchants' accounts.
An exception always operates to take a case which comes

SUPREME COURT.
[Spring and others v. The Execufors of Gray.]

within it, out of the operation of the enacting clause; and whatever is within the exception is exempted from the effects of
the law.
The exemption of merchants' accounts has reference to the
character of the parties; and not to the nature oT their dealing,
or the subject matter of the account between them. The account on which this action is founded, is -fully within this
principle.
The statute of limitations has sustained various fortunes
since its enactment. The dispositions of courts towards its
objects have differed, and -have frequently changed; and the
cases in which it has been permitted to operate, have been
diminished or increased, according to the opinion entertained
of the policy of the system. At the present period the course
of decisions is to restore the law to its full force; and to give
all its provisions their full influence. The exception or merchants' accounts is in clear and express terms; and if relieved
from the pressure of decided ,ases, there would be no difficulty
in its application to the case before the court. The accounts
between the parties, or at least rite plaintiffs' account, is one
growing out of dealings between them and the defendants' intestate, of a mercantile nature. It has reference to the transportation of merchandise, its sale, and to the reinvestment of
the proceeds. The account is not yet closed.
Without going back to the history and progress of the various •conflicts which this exception has sustained, it may be
proper to state, that in the first instance it was limited to actions of account. At length it was extended to every form 6f
proceeding at Jaw or in equity, where accounts were sought to
be recovered; various other questions succeeded, some of
which, having a bearing upon that now before the court,- are
still debatable.,
The question how far the exception applies to closed or
stated accounts; or whether only to those which are open or
current? Is it required that some one item shall be within
six years?
Several cases maintain the last ground; they are chiefly from
the courts of chancery. 2 Ves? 400; 6 Ves. 580; 15 Ves.
199; 19 Ves. 148, 180; 15 Ves. 286; Gilb. Eq. Rep. 224;
Bunbury, 217; 5 Johns. Ch. Cases, 522; 2 Eden, 169. 'There

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Spring and others v. The Executors of Gray.]

is nothing in the language of the exception to authorise the
construction adopted in these cases. Merchants' accounts are
excepted, without any limitation as to the period of the items
which compose them, or as to the date of the first or last of
those items.
On the other hand, there are decisions which maintain the
exception, and give it operation; although there is no item in
the account within six years. 6 Term Rep. 119; 2 Saunders,
127, 12, 6, 7; 6 Pick. 362; 2 Dal]. 264; 2 Yeates, 105; 4
Greeal. 839; 5 Crunch, 15; 3 Wilson, 94.
Thus between the common law decisions and those by the
couirts of chancery, the exception is entirely annihilated. Both
cannot be la%: and by some of the authorities, merchants' accounts are no more favoured than other accounts, against the
plain intent of the-statute.
It is admitted that closed or stated accounts are not within
the exception. The cases to this principle are, 2 Saunders,
124; 2 Johns. Rep, 200; 20 Johns. Rep. 533.
Another question was discussed in the circuit court, which
may have its influence in this court. How far accounts, to
entitle them to the protection of the exception, should be
mutual? It is said accounts must exist on both sides. The
doctrine of mutuality of accounts is found in Bul. N. P. 149;
20 Johns. 583.
This doctrine has been engrafted, very strangely, on the
exception under consideration. An accurate examination of
the authorities will satisfy the court, that to uphold this exception mutuality is not requisite. The words of the law are not
accounts "between merchant and merchant," but "ctrade between merchant and merchant." And the case before the
cburt shows mutual accounts. The transactions to which the
account refers, are those of mutual dealing, requiring that accounts should have been kept, and that the results of those
dealings should be stated in that form. The books of the
plaintiffs show an account, and so do the books of the defendants' testator-not with the plaintiffs in their name, but
of the business in which they were concerned, and in the
profits in which both parties were interested. -It is said, however, that there was in these transactions nothing but a contract-no trade-no merchandize.

SUPREME COURT
[Spring and athers v. The Executors of Gray.]

The parties were merchants. The subject of their transactions was merchandise: and it was to be transported to a foreign place, to be sold there; the proceeds to purchase other
merchandise, which was to be brought back to be sold here;
and after the original cost of the merchandise should be repaid,
the residue was to be divided between the parties. In all this
accounts were required. Do they not concern the trade of
merchandise?
Does the agreement alter the nature of these transactions?
In every trade there is an agreement, written or otherwise: as
to factors it is generally a written contract; and this case may
well be considered as one between merchant and factor. The
contract was made with the partnership, and they appointed
one of themselves to see it executed. In doing this, the person appointed acts under the agreement, and the advantages
which accrue to him, accrue to the plaintiffs. It was, without
doubt, one of the inducements to the contract, that a partner
of the firm should execute it. Courts look at the substance of
agreements,.not to the mere form. The bill of lading must
necessarily have been signed by the master of the Morning
Star. It would have been so signed, if they had appointed
any other person to execute the agreement. The instructions
of the shipper were for the same reason addressed to him.
The whole transaction is but one contract; and the signature
of the bill of lading by the master did not separate him from
his co-partners. He became the agent of the firm to keep the
accounts for them; and these accounts so kept were the accounts of all the partners.
Mr Webster, contra.
The case is one of contract, depending on a special agreement between the owners of the Morning Star, and the ship.
pers of the cargo. The vessel was to carry the property
shipped for a proportion of the profits on the sales; and there
were no profits. The whole transaction is contained hi the
bill of lading. and the agreement, and the account is a bill of
particulars growing out of the agreement.
The plaintiffs, on being called upon, stated that their demandwas founded entirely on the agreement.
Itis said that the question was one of fact, and not of law;

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Spring and others v. The Executors of Gray.)

and that it was not p'operly taken from the jury by the-court.
Had this been so, yet as on the trial neither party requested
the facts to be left to the jury, &c. and both were willing to
consider the whole as matter of law; the objection is now out
of place.
[Mr Justice Story stated, that at the trial neither party requested the facts to bd left to the jury.]
But it is contended that this is purely a question of Jaw.
The counsel for the plaintiffs in error have so treated it by a
reference to numerous cases. All the facts are admitted--the
contract, and all the matters given or offered in evidence, are
in writing; and they give rise to the only questions which
are legal ones, as to the construction of this written evidence.
It is denied that the case in Pickering's Reports apblies; there
many facts were controverted.
This is nota matter of account within the exception of the
statute of limitations.
There is no item within six years; and this is necessary,
although the case in Cranch is considered as giving a sanction
to another principle. In some of the states, it has been held
that it is necessary that the account should have an item within
the limitation, but not in all. All the English decisions are
otherwise. But the principle is not material in this case.
The account must be current; existing on a running mutual
account between merchants: it must be an open, and nota setfled transaction. The statute hagno relation to written books;
the words apply to such a state of things as will require a party
to account; and as are analogous to trusts. The relations between the parties determine the nature of the cases. The
mere fact that there is an account between the parties, is not
sufficient. An account settled and stated, it is allowed, is not
within the statute, and the reason is, that the matters of the
account are no longer open, and the account has become a
debt.
The evidence to maintain the action shows no matter of
account. The consignee was bound to account, but the ship
owners, who signed the agreement, had no accounts to keep.
The consignee was not bailid and receiver; and the old action
of account would not lie.

SUPREME COURT.
tSpring and others v. The Executors of Gray.]

The case does not exhibit any thing from which a claim to
account could be made upon the defendants' testator. He bad
received nothing. The manner of paying the freight did not
make the transaction one of account: it was the same as a
charter party of affreightment, and was a special agreement for
a special purpose. It is not enough that a party is liable to
pay. )ney; to make it an account, he must have received
some.Aing for which he is liable to account. Carthew, 226.
There must be mutual accounts; debts and credits on both
sides; mutual dealings: a debt or claim on one side, could not
be an account, in the view of the exception.
The ground on which the exception rests is, that the merchant looks to remittances, and a course of dealing between
the parties at a distance, and the law regards the inconvenience
of having settlements made within a short time. Some transactions between merchants are not, and cannot be closed within the period .of six years; and for such cases the law intends
to provide. "Accounts between merchants are often kept open
for a long time, in the expectation of Temittances.
The statute must have a full and reasonable construction.
The account, to bring it within the exception, must relate to
the trade of merchandise. The pleadings in this case exhibit
the question in this form; but in this case there are no such
relations. The cargo is placed in the hands of the captain for
certain purposes only.
Because the parties are merchants, and the goods shipped
by the defendant's testator were articles of merchandise, there
is no application of the law. The demand must be one in a
transaction, which being between merchant and merchant, the
party called upon is bound to account.
Mr Chief Justice MASHALI. delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This cause depends entirely on the question whether the
plaintiffs ire within the exception of the statute of limitations,
made in favour of " such accounts as concern the trade of merchandise between merchant and merchant."
The plaintiffs iA error brought an action on the case agiinst
the defendants, in the proper court of the state of. Maine,

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Spring and others v. The Executors of Gray.]

which was removed by the defendants into the circuit court
of fhe United States for the district of Maine.
The first count was for baiance of accounts annexed to the
writ; the second was for money had and received. The defendants pleaded non-assumpsit and the statute of limitations.
Issue was joined on the first plea. To the second, the plaintiffs
replied that tbe accounts and promises mentioned in the declaration are, and arose from such accounts as concern the trade
of merchandise between merchant and merchant, their factors
and servants; and issue was joined on this replication.
At the trial the plaintiffs produced the bill of lading of the
outward cargo of the barque Morning Star, signed by Andrew
M. Spring, the master of said barque, with the contract on the
back of it, signed by William Gray, the testator of the defendants, ana by Seth Spring and Sons, the plaintiffs and owners
of the barque Morning Star; which bill of lading and contract
are in these words:
Shipped in good order and well conditioned, by William
Gray of Boston, a native citizen of the United States of America, for his sole account and risk, in and upon the barque
called the Morning Star, whereof is master for this present
voyage, Andrew M. Spring, now in the harbour of Boston,
and bound for Algiers; to say: [The merchandize is here described by marks, numbers and quantities]; being marked and
numbered os in the margin, and are to be delivered in like good
order and well conditioned at the aforesaid port of Algiers,
(the dangers of' the seas only excepted), unto Andrew M.
Spring, or to his assigns, he or they paying freight for the
said goods, as per agreement indorsed hereon, without primage
or average. In witness whereof, the said master of the said
barque hath affirmed to four bills of lading of this tenor and
date, one of which being accomplished, the other three then
to stand void. Dated in Boston, May 262 1810.
ANDREW M. SPRING.

The proceeds of the within cargo, amounting to thirty-five
thousand two hundred and two dollars eighty-three cents, as
per invoice, costs and charges, is to be invested in Algiers or
some other port (after deducting all charges, consignee's commission included, except freight and premium of insurance
within, of which two last mentioned charges are to be made
VoL. V.-V

SUPREME COURT.
[Spring and others v. The Executorr of Gray.]

on the goods), and returned in the said barque Morning Star
to Boston, when Seth Spring and Sons (owners of said barque)
are to recover one half of the net profits thereon, in lieu of
freight and primage, the voyage round. The consignee's commissions to be two and a half per cent on the sales of the
within cargo; and no commissions to be charged in Boston
except what is paid an auctioneer.
SETH SPRING & SONS,
WILLIAm GRAY.

S35,202 83.
The plaintiffs also produced several letters and papers from
William Gray, the master of the Morning Star, and others,
respecting the outward voyage of the barque;together with the
bills of lading and invoices -of her inward cargo, which was
delivered to the defendants. They also produced an account

from the books of Seth Spring and Sons, as follows:
Dr-. William Gray, Esq., of ,Boston, Mass., in. account
with Seth Spring and Sons.
Cr.
1810, Sept. For loss sustained on
-the sloop Fanny, captain Ebenezer Jordan, master, which said
Gray insured
2,500
ISI1, Oct. For 35,000 gillons oil
in casks delivered him from
barque Morning Star, William
Nason, master, at Boston, at 7s.
6d. per gal.
43,750
127 cases oil delivered by same, at
$10 per ca.-e
1,270
53,803 lbs. cotton left with Mr Lear,
and afterwards paid for by the
Dey of Algiers to Com. Stephen
Decatur, at 30 cents per lb.
16,140
Cash paid by A. M. Spring to Bainbridge & Co. merchants, Eng.
land;and by them passed to the
credit of said Gray
2,000
Paid A. M. Spring his commissions,
at 2. per cent on said barque's
outward cargo as per agreement
880
1829. Interest on loss on sloop]
Fanny 19 years
I 2,850
Interest on one half the profile ofi
Morning Star's voyage, per
agreement
14.758

1811. By amount of
the outward cargo of
the barque Morning
00
Star, as per original
invoice and bill of
lading
35,202 83
His hall the profits of
said Morning Star's
00
voyage
14,469 08
1829.
Balance now
00
due from estate ol
said William Gray. 34,477 45
90

00
00
00
41

When the plaintiffs had closed their evidence, the court
asked whether they had uny other cause of action than such as
arose from the bill of lading of the outward cargo of the barque

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Spring and others v. The Executots of Gray.]

Morning Star, and the contract indorsed thereon; and they answqred that they had not.
The counsel for the defendants then moved the court to instruct the jury that inasmuch as the plaintiffs had admitted
that their whole cause of action arose from said bill of lading
and contract indorsed thereon, the said bill of lading and contract, with the other papers, documents and testimony aforesaid, were not sufficient evidence in point of law to maintain
the issue joined on the part of the plaintiffs, in respect to their
replication of merchants' accounts.
The plaintiffi' counsel objected to such instructions, and
prayed the court to instruct the jury that the evidence introduced was sufficient to prove, and did prove, the issue joined
on the part of the plaintiffs.
The court instructed the jury that inasmuch as the plaintiffl
had admitted that their whole cause of action arose from said
la,.t mentioned bill of lading and contract indorsed thereon,
the said bill of lading and contract,'with the other papers,
documents and testimony aforesaid, were not sufficient evidence in point of law to maintain the issue last afbresaid on the
part of the plaintiffs. To this instruction an exception was
taken.
A verdict was found for the defendants; and this writof error
brings up. the judgment which was rendered thereon.
Tie statute of Maine is copied from the 20th of James I.,
and its words are, " all actions of account and upon the case,
othei than such accounts as concern the trade of merchandise
between merchant and merchant, their factors or servants, &c.
shall be commenced," &c.
It would seem to be the necessary construction of these
words, that the actions on the case to which the exception applies, must be founded on an account. The language of the
act conveys the some meaning as if it had been "all actions of
account, and all actions on the case, other than such as are
founded on such account as concerns the 'trade of merchandise," &c. The foundation of the action must be an account,
not a contract.
From, the association of actions on the case, a remedy given
by the law for almost every claim for money, and for 'the
redress of every breach of contract not under sealj with actions

SUPREME COURT.
[Spting and others v. The Executors of Gray.]

of account, which lie only in a few special cases; it may reasonably be conceived that the legislature had in contemplation to
except those actions only for which account would lie. Be
this as it may, the words certainly require that the action should
be founded on an account. The account must be one" which
concerns the trade.of merchandise." The case protected by
the exception is not every transaction between merchant and
merchant, not every account which might exist between them,
but it must concern the trade of merchandise. It is not an
exemption from the act, attached to the merchant merely as a
personal privilege, but an exemption which is conferred on the
business as well as on the persons between whom that business
is carried on. The account must concern the trade of merchandise: and this trade must be, not an ordinary traffic between a merchant and any ordinary customers, but between
merchant and merchant. This "trade of merchandise," which
can furnish an account protected by the exception, must be
not only between merchant and merchant, but between the
plaintiff and defendant. The account-the business of merchandise which produces it-must be between them.
If these propositions be well founded, and we believe they
are, let us apply them to the case.
The defendants were undoubtedly merchants. The plaintiffs, Seth Spring and Sons, were also imerchants. But they
were likewise ship owners. They were the proprietors of
vessels which they hired to others for freight. A charter
party, a contract by which the owner lets his vessel to another
for freight, does not change its character because the parties
happen to be merchants. It is still a special contract, whereby
a compensation is stipulated for a service to be performed; and
not an apcount concerning the trade of merchandie. It is
no more "an account,y and no more conpected with "the
trade of merchandise," than a bill of exchange or a contract
for the rent of a house, or the hire of a carriage, or any other
single transaction which might take place between individuals'
who happened to be merchants. An entry of it on the books
of either could not change its nature, and convert it from an
insulated transaction between individuals, into an account concerning the trade of merchandise, between merchant and merchant. This must depend on the nature and character of the

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Spring and others v. The Executors of Gray.]

transaction, not on the book in which either party may choose
to enter a memorandum or statement of it.
Had the freight contracted for been a sum in gross, or a sum
dependent on the space occupied by the cargo, or on its weight,
or on any estimate of its value, it would have been perceived
at once to be a claim founded on contract, and not on account.
Is the nature, of the transaction varied by the fact, that the
freight to be paid by the charterer, hnstead of being a specific
sum, or a sum to be ascertained by so'me given rule, is dependent
on the profits of the adventure? That the salesof the outward and
inward cargo, and all the expenses attendant on the enterprize,
must be examined in order to ascertain the amount of freight?
This process must undoubtedly be gone through in an action
on the contract, but does its necessity convert the action,
which ought to be on the contract, into one founded on an account concerning the trade of merchandise between merchant
and merchant? The account of the sales of the outward cargo is
to be adjusted between th, shipper and his consignee, not between the shipper and the ship owner in his adventitious character of a merchant. So the salts of the return cargo must be
examined in order .to ascertain whether'any and how much
profit has been made, and whether the ship owner is entitled
to any and how much freight. But this account is not founded
on trade and merchandise between the owner and affreighter
of the vessel. It is founded on the trade of the affreighter
alone, to which reference must be made in order to ascertain
the amount of freight. Mr Gray could not be considered as
the factor of Seth Spring and Sons, selling their goods. He
was selling his own; and the relation between them was not
that of merchant and factor, but of charterer and eharteree of
a vessel by special contract.
If we were to decide fhis case on the words of the statute,
we should not think that the-plaintiffs had brought themselves
within the exception. We should not consider the action as
founded on "such an account as concerns the trade of merchandise between merchant and merchant.-'
This opinion is not changed by cases which are to be found
in the books.

In Webber v. Tivil, 2 Saunders, 121, the plaintiff's declaration contained two counts, one in indebitatus assumpsit for

SUPREME COURT.
[Spring ind others v. The Eecutors of Gray.]

money had and received by the defendant for the plaintiff's
use, and for goods, wares and merchandise sold and delivered,
and the other on an insimul computasset. To the plea of the
act of limitations the plaintiff replied, that the money in fhe
several provisions mentioned became due and payable on trade
between the plaintiff and defendant as merchants, and wholly
concerned merchandise. The defendant demurred, and the
whole court gave judgment in his favour.
Morton, Justice, was of opinion, that only actions of account
were within the exception. The report does not contain the
reasons assigned by the other judges, otherwise than by stating that they were the reasons given by MVfr Jones in his argument. These were that the statute intends to except nothing
concerning merchandise between merchants, but only accounts
current between them, whereas the declaration in the second
count was on an account stated and agreed. He. also contended, that the first count did not make a case to be brought
within the exception, it being only a bargain for wares sold
and for money lent; and although it concerned merchandise,
and was between merchants, yet that was no reason why it
should be excepted out of the statute; for if it should be excepted, by the same reason every contract made between merchants would also be excepted; which was not the intention of
the statute; for in the statute accounts between merchants
only are excepted, and not contracts likewise. He also contended, that actions of account only were within the exception. This point has been since overruled, though it seems to
have been long considered as settled law.
This case having been decided,.as the reporter informs us,
for the reasons assigned by Jopes, his argument must be taken
as the opinion of the court. It decides, that only accounts,
not contracts, between merchants, even although they may
concern the trade of merchandise, are within the exception,
and that the accounts must be current.
In Cotes v. Harris, at Guildhall, Dennison, Justice, held that
the clause in the statute of limitations about merchants' accounts
extended only to cases where there were mutual accounts, and
reciprocal demands between two persons. This was only the
decision of a single judge; but Mr Justice Buller seems to have
given it his sanction, also, by introducing it into his work.

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Spring and others v. The Executors of Gray.]

Bul. Ni. Pri. 150. And Lord Kenyon quoted it with approbation in Cranch v. Kirkman, Peake's Ni. Pri. 121, adding
that he had furnished his note of the case to Mr Justice Buller.
The distinction between an account current and an account
stated, has been often .taken, 1 Ves. 456; 4 Mod. 105; 2 Ves.
40Q; 1 Mod. 270; aad is now admitted.
The English cases certainly do not oppose the opinion we
have formed on the words of the statute.
The American cases, as far as they go, are in favour of it.
In Mandeville v. Wilson, 5 Cr. 15, this court said, that the
exception extended to all accounts current, which coheerned the
trade ofmerchandisebetween merchant and merchant. Theonly
addition made in this part of the opinion, to the words used
in the statute, is the introduction of the word "current."
The statute saves "accounts current." The opinion proceeds to say that an account closed by the cessation of dealing
between the parties, is not an account stated, and that it is not
necessary that any of the items should be within five yeais.
This decision maintains the distinction between accounts current and accounts stated.
In Ramcharrdu against Hammond, 2 Johns. 200, the court
determined that the statute of New York, though slightly
varying in its language from the English statute, was to be
construed in the same manner, and "4must be confined to
actions on open or current accounts."
"It must be a direct
concern of trade: liquidated demands, or bills and notes which
are only traced up to the trade or merchandise, are too remote
to come within this description."
In the case of Coster et al. v. Murray et al., 5th Johns. Ch.
Rep. 522, a purchase of goods was made by the agents of the
parties at Copenhagen, and shipped to the defendants, merchants in New York, on joint account under an agreement made
by the agents, that the goods should be sold by the defendants,
free from commission, and ofie-tbird of the proceeds paid to
the plaintiffs, who were insurers. The goods were received
and sold by the defendants, who mingled the noney with their
own, and refused to pay eny part of it to the plaintiffs, unless
on terms to which the plaintiffs would not accede. To a bill
filed by the plaintiffs, the defendants pleaded the act of limitations. The plaintiffs contended that the claim was within

SUPREME COURT.
[Spring and others v. The Executors of Gray.]

the exception of the. statute in favour of accounts between merchants, and also that it related to the execution of a trust, and
was therefore not within the statute.
On the first point, Chancellor Kent said, "cto bring a case
within the exception of the statute, there must be mutual accounts, and reciprocal demands between two persons.
"In the present case there was no account current between
the parties. There are no mutual and reciprocal demands."
"The defendants took charge of and agreed to be accountable for some goods, or the proceeds thereof, in which the parties had a joint interest; and as concerns the parties, and as
between them, this hardly seems to be a trade of merchandise
between merchant and merchant."
The chancellor took a very elaborate review of all the English
cases in which this exception had been discussed. Many of
them went off on other points, many were indecisive, and
some of them seem to be opposed to each other, though not
on the precise question which has been argued in this case.
He concluded this review by observing: "assuming the
case before me to be one that concerned the trade of merchandise between merchant and merchant, I should rather be inclined to think the statute was well pleaded, and that the case
did not fall within the exception."
A decree was made in favour of the plaintil on the other
point, from which the defendant appealed to the court of
errors.
The cause was argued on several points, the first of which
was, "whether it came within the exception of the statute
concerning the trade of merchandise between merchant and
merchant, their factors or servants."
Mr Cliiefjustice Spencer said the chancellor had examined the
case very elaborately, and had come to the conclusion that the
statute was well pleaded; and that the case does not fall within
the exception. He added, "whether the statute is at all applicable to a case of mutual dealing and mutual credits between
merchant and merchant, is a question not now necessary to be
decided, because the present is not a ease of that kind. On
the part of the respondents, this is no account at all. This is
a case of an account merely on the part of the appellants; there
is no selling or trading. It is a case of a joint purchase of

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Spring and others v. The Executors of Gray.]

goods, where one of the purchasers takes the whole goods, and
is to account for one-third of the proceeds. In such a case,
where the items of an account are all on one side, in myjudgment it is not within the reason or principle of the exception;
which must have intended open and current accounts, where
there was mutual dealing and mutual credits."
Judges Platt and Woodworth concurred. There was some
division in the court of errors; but the decree of the chancellor
was affirmed.
This case is stronger than that under consideration, and
turns on principles which decide it.
No doubt is expressed in it on the necessity of accounts being mutual, and being open and current, to bring them within
the exception of the statute.
On a commercial question, especially on a question deeply
interesting to merchants, and to merchants only, the settled law
of New York is entitled to great respect elsewhere.
We have found no conflicting decision in any of the states.
The account from the books of the plaintiffs contains one
item not founded on the contract for the freight of the barque
Morning Star, the loss on the sloop Francis, insured by said
Gray. But this item itself is not within the exception, and
was abandoned by the plaintiffs, who declared that their whole
cause of action arose from the contract. The claim, to bring
the case within the exception, rests entirely on the sale of
the inward cargo. This single transaction has riot equal
(certainly not superior) pretensions to being an account current
between merchant and merchant, a case of mutual accounts
between them, with the sale made by the Murrays, in Carter
et al. v. Alurray et al., of goods purchased on joint account,
shipped to the defendants on joint account, and sold by the
defendants on joint account.
We are of opinion that this action is not founded on an account concerning the trade of merchandise between merchant
and merchant, their factors or servants; and is not within the
exception of the statute of limitations. . There is no error in
the instructions given by the circuit court, and the judgment
is affirmed, with costs.
VOL. VI.-VI

