JANUARY TERM 1832.

TRY, UNITED

STATES V. JOHN 1). QuIc.

Indictment under the third seciion of the act for the punishment of certin crimes
against the United States, &c. passed April 20, 1818. The indictment charged
the defendant with being knowingly concerned in the fitting out, in the
port of Baltimore, a vessel, with intent to employ her in the service of
a foreign "people," the United Provinces of Buenos Ayres; against the subjects of the emperor of Brazil, with whom the United States were at peace.
The vessel went from Baltimore to St Thomas, and was there fully armed.
She afterwards cruised under the Buenos Ayrearf flag. To bring the defendant
within the words of the act, it is not necessary to charge him with being concerned in fitting out and arming 1he vessel; the words of the act are "fitting
out or arming." Either will constitute the offence. Iti3 sufficient if he indictment charges the offence in the words of the act.
It is true, that with respect to those who have been denominated at the bar, the
chief actors, the law would seem to make it necessary that they should be
charged with fitting out and arming. The words may require that both shall
concur, and the vessel be put in a condition to cou-nit hostilities in order to
bring her within the l;iw; but an attempt to fit out and arm is made an offence.
This is certainly doing something short of a complete fitting out and arming.
To attempt to do an act does not, either in law or in common parlance, imply a
completion of the act, or r"ny definite progress towards it. Any effort or endeavour to effect it, will satisfy the terms of the law. It is not necessary that the
vessel, when she left Baltimore for St Thomas, and during the voyage from
Baltimore to St Thomds, was armed, or in a condition to commit hostilities, in
order to find the defendant guilty of the offence charged in the indictment.
The defence consists, principally, in the intention with which the preparations to
commit hostilities were made. These preparations, according to the very
terms of the act, must be made within the limits of the United States; and it
is equally necessary that the intention with respect to the employment of the
vessel, should be formed before she leaves the United States. And this must
be a fixed intention; not conditional or contingent, depending on some future
arrangements. This intention is a question belonging exclusively to the jury
to decide. It is the material point, on which the legality or criminality of the
act must turn; and decides whether the adventure is of a commercial or a warlike character.
The law does not prohibit armed vessels belonging to citizens or"the United
States from sailing out of our ports; it only requires the owners to give security
thAt such vessels shall not be endployed by them w commit hostilities against
foreign powers at peace with thc United States.
The collectors are not authoised to detain vessels, although manifestly built for
warlike purposes, and about to depart from the United States; unless circumstances shall render it piobable that such vessels are intended to be employed
by the owners to commit hostilities against some foreign power, at peace with
the United Statec. Al' the latitude, therefore, necessary for commercial purpeses ii given to our citi7ens; an,l they are restrained only from such act. as
are calculated to involve the country in wan.
If the defendant w as knowin'gly concerned in fitting out the vessel within the

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Quincy.]
United States with intent that she should be employed to commit hoitilifies
apinst a state or prince, or peopie, at peace with the United States; that Inten.
tion being defeated by what might afterwards take place in the West IndiW,
wojld not purge .the offence, which was previously consummated. It he not
necessary that the, design or intention should be carried into execution, in order
to constitute the offence.
he indictment charges that the defendant was concerned in fitting out the
Bolivar with intent that she should be employed in the service of a foreign
-peop e; that is to say, in the service of the United Provinces of Rio de IaPlata.
It was in evidence that the United Provinces of Rio de IaPlata had been regularty acknowledged as an independent nation by the executive department
-,f the government of the United States, before the year 1827. It was argued
that the word people is not applicable to that nation or power. By the court:
The objection is one purely techniesl, and we think not wet founded. The
word "people," as here used,'is merely descriptive of the power in whose service the vessel was intended to be employed: and it is one of the denominatlons applied by the act of congress to.a foreign power.

THIS case came before the court on a certificate of division of
opinion by the judges of the circuit court of the United States
for the district of Maryland.
An indictment was found against the defendant in that court
at May term 1829, founded on the third section of the act of
congress, passed April 20, 1818, entitled "an act in addition
to the ' act for the punishment of certain crimes against the
'United States,' and to repeal the acts therein mentioned."
The third section provides: that if any person shall, within
the limits of the United States, fit out and arm, or attempt to
fit out and arm, or procure to be fitted out and armed, or
shall knowingly be concerned in the furnishing, fitting out or
arming of any ship or vessel with intent that such ship or vessel
shall be employed in the service of any foreign prince or state,
or of any colony, district or people, to cruise or commit hostilities against the subjects, citizens or property of any foreign
.prince or state, or of any colony, district or people with whom
the United States are at peace, or shall issue or deliver a commission within the territoly or jurisdiction of the United States
for any ship or vessel, with the intent that she may be employed as aforesaid, every person so offending shall be guilty of a
high misdemeanour, and shall be fined not more than ten
thousand dollars, and imprisoned not more than three years;
and every such ship or vessel, with her tackle, apparel and
furniture, together with all materials, arms, ammunition and
stores, which may have been procured for the building and

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[United States v. Quincy.]

equipment thereof, shall be forfeited; one half to the use of the
informer, and the other half to the use of the United States.
The indictment contained fifteen counts, upon two only of
which evidence was given; and the questions upon which the
judges of the circuit court were divided in opinion, arose on
those counts, and on the evidence in reference to the mattersstated in them. They were the 12th and 13th counts.
12. And the jurors aforesaid, upon their oath aforesaid, do
further present, that the said John D. Quincy, on the day and
year aforesaid, at the district aforesaid, within the limits of the
United States, and within the jurisdiction of the United States
and of this court, with force and arms, was knowingly concerned in the fitting out of a certain vessel called the Bolivar, otherwise called Las Damns Argentinas, with intent that such vessel
be employed in the service of a foreign people, tlat is to say,
in the service tf "9the United Provinces of Rio de la Plata,"
to commit hostilities against the subjects of a foreign prince,
that is to say, against the subjects of " his imperial majesty,
the coistitutional emperor and perpetual defender of Brazil,"
with whom the United States then were, and still are at peace,
against the form of the act of congress in such case made and
provided, and against the peace, government and dignity of
the United States.
13. And the jurors aforesaid, upon their oath aforesaid, do
further present, that the said John D. Quincy, on the day and.
year aforesaid, at the district, aforesaid, within the limits of
the United States, and within the jurisdiction of the United
States and of this court, with force and arms, was knowingly
concerned in the fitting out a certain other vessel, called the
Bolivar, otherwise called Las Damas Argcntinaswith intent that
the said vessel should be employed in the service of a foreign
people, that is to say, in the service of the United Pi ovinces
of Rio de ]a Plata, to cruise and commit hostilities against the
subjects and property of a foreign prince, that is to say, against
the subjects and property of his imperial majesty the constittttional emperor and perpetual defender of Brazi!, with whom
the United.States then were and still are at peace, against the
form of the act of congress in such case made and provided,
and against fhe pence, government and dignity of the United
St'ates.

SUPREME COURT.
[Unitd Stites v. Quincy.]

The defendant pleaded not guilty; and the cause came on
to be tried before the circuit court, on the 8th day of April
1820.
On the part of the United States evidence was given of the
repairing and fitting out of the schooner Bolivar in the port of
Baltimore in 1827. That she was originally a Maryland pilot
boat of sixty or seventy tons. ' The work was done at the
request of Henry Armstrong and of the defendant, who superintended the same; that she was fitted with sails and masts
larger than those required for a merchant vessel, and was
altered in a manner to suit her carrying passengers, and with
a port for a gun. This evidence on .the part of the United
States was intended to apply to the twelfth and thirteenth
counts in the indictment, and to sustain the allegations therein.
It was in proof, that the Bolivar sailed from Baltimore for
St Thomas on the 27th September 1827, having on board provisions, thirty-two water casks, one &un carriage and slide, a
box of muskets and thirteen kegs of gunpowder, and after a
bond had been given by John M. Patterson as master, and
George Stiles and Victor Valette of Baltimore as owners, not
to commit hostilities against the subjects or property of any
prince or state, or of any colony, district or people with whom
the United States were at peace. After her arrival at St Thomas, Armstrong had no funds, and was uncertain whether he
could get funds. At St Thomas she was fitted as a privateer
and ailed to St Eustatia, having changed her name to Las Damas
Argentinas; the defendant was her captain during the subsequenteruise. Armstrongwas on board,not as an offcer, but as an
owner, and as agent for the other owners. Armstrong on the
voyage from Baltimore told a witness, that if the vessel went
privateering it would be under the Buenos Ayrean flag; and
that he had procured a commission for the Bolivar from an
agent of the Buenos Ayrean government at Washington, for
eight hundred dollars.
A'witness swore that he conversed with Armstrong about
going to the West idies, that Armftrong told him it was his
intention, or rather his wish, to employ the Bolivar as a privateer; but he had no funds to fit her out as such, and could not
tell, until he got to the West Indies, what he might ultimately
do. Armstrong wanted witness in Baltimore to advance some

JANUARY TERM 1832.
LUnited States v. Quincy.]

,funds, and told him he would be glad if witness would go as
surgeon. He spoke of the difficulty of getting funds, both in
Baltimore and in the West Indies. The witness knew that
Armstrong had no funds when he arrived in the West Indies,
and was two or three days negQtiating with Cabot and Co. of
St Thomas, and was uncertain of there getting funds.
FromySt Eustatia the vessel proceeded, under the Buenos
Ayrean flag, and captured several vessels, Portuguese, Bra.
zilian and Spanish; which were ordered, in consequence of the
blockade of the Rio de la Plata, to the West Indies, in pursuance of instructions from the government of Buenos Ayres.
The cruise terminated on the 1st of March 1828: one prize and
cargo produced thirty-five thousand dollars, which was distributed among the crew.
It was admitted that before the year 1827, the United Provinces of Rio de la Plata had been regularly acknowledged as
an independent, -nation, by the executive department of the
government of the United States.
The defendant moved the circuit court for theiropinion and
direction to the jury:
1. That if the jury believe, that, when the Bolivar left Baltimore, and when she arrived at St Thomas,, and during the
voyage from Baltimore to St Thomas, she was not armed or at
all prepared for war, or in a condition to commit hostilities;
the verdict must be for the traverser.
2. That if the jury believe that when the Bolivar was fitted
and equipped at Baltimore, the owner and equipper intended
to go to the West Indies in search of fuiids with which t6arm
and equip the said vessel, gnd had no present intention of using
or employing the said vessel as a privateer, but intended when
he equipped her, to go to the West indies, to endeavour to
raise funds to prepare her for a cruise; then the traverser is'not
guilty.
3. That if the jury believe, that when the Bolivar was
equipped at Baltimore, and when she left the United States,
the equipper had no fixed intention to employ her as a privateer, but had a wish so to employ her, the fulfilment of which
wish depehded on his ability to obtain funds in the West Indies,
for the purpose of arming and preparing her for war; then the
traverser is not guilty.

VoL. VI.-3 G

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Quincy.]

4. That according to the evidence in this cause, the United
Provinces of Rio de la Plata is, and was at the time of the offence
alleged in the indictment, a government acknowledged*bythe
United States; alid that the United Provinces of Rio de la Plata
is, and then was a state, and not a people within the meaning
of the act of congress under which the traverser is indicted;
the word "people" in that kct being intended to describe communities under an existing government, not'recognized by the
United States; and that the indictmept therefore cannot be supported on this evidence.
The district attorney of the United States moved the court
for their opinion and direction to the jury:
1. That if the jury find from the evidence, that the traverser was, within the district of Maryland, knowingly concerned in the fitting out of the privateer Bolivar, alias Las
Damas Argentinas, with intent that such vessel should be employed in the service of the United Provinces of Rio de ]a Plata,
to commit hostilities, or to cruise and commit hostilities,
against the subjects, or against the subjects and property
of his imperial majesty, the constitutional emperor and perpetual defender of Brazil, with whom the United'States were
at peace, then the traverser has been guilty of a violation of the
third section of the act of congress of the 20th of April 1818,
which punishes certain offences against the United States: although the jury should further find, that the equipments of
the said privateer were not complete within the United States,
and that toe cruise did not actually commence until men were
recruited, and further equipments were made at the island of
St Thomas in the West Indies; and should further find that
the Bolivar, on her voyage from Baltimore to St Thomas, had
no large gun, no flints, nor any cannon or musket balls, and that
the muskets and sabres were, during the voyage, nailed up in
boxes.
2. That if the jury find from the evidence, that the traverser
was, within the district of Maryland, knowingly concerned in
the fitting out of the privateer Bolivar, alias Las Damas Argentinas, with intent that such vessel should be employed in the
service of the United Provinces of Rio de la Plata, to commit
hostilities, or to cruise and commit hostilities against the subjects, or against the subjects and property of his imperial ma-

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[United States v. Quincy.]

jesty, the constitutional emperor and perpetual defender of
BrAzil, with whom the United States then were at peace,
then the traverser has been guilty of a violation of the third
section of the act of congress of the 20th of April 1818, which
punishes certain crimes against the United States; although the
jury should further find, that the intention so to employ the
said vessel was liable to be defeated by a, failure to procure
funds in the West Indies, where further equipments were intended and required to be made, before actually commencing
the contemplated cruise.
3. That if the jury find from the evidence, that the traverser
was, within the district of Maryland, knowingly concerned in
the fitting out of the privateer Bolivar, alias Las Damas Argentinas, with intent that such vessel should be employed in
the service of the United Provinces of Rio de Ia Plata, to commit hostilities, or to cruise and commit hostilities iagainst the
subjects, or against the subjects and property of his imperial
majesty, the constitutional emperor and perpetual defender of
Brazil, with whom the United States then were at peace, then
the traverser has been guilty of a violation of the third section
of the act of congress of the 20th of April 1818, which punishes
certain crimes against the United States; although the jury"
shoul further find, that the fulfilment of the intentions so to
employ the said vessel, would have been defeated if further
funds had not been obtained in the West Indies, where further equipments were intended and required to be made before
actually comnmicing the contemplated cruise.
4. That the twelfth and thirteefith counts in the indictment
are good and sufficient in law, whereon to found a conviction;
notwithstanding the employment therein of the words "in
the service of a foreign people, that is' to say" preceding the
words " in the service of the United Provinces of Rio de Ia
Plata."
Upon the aforesaid prayers, and upon each of them, thejudges
were opposed in opinion; and thereupon the court ordered the
same to be certified to the supreme court of the United States.
The case was argued by Mr Williams, for the United States:
and by Mr Wirt, for the defendant.
Mr Williams, for the United States, contended, in support

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Quincy.]

of their first prayer, that the guilty intention having been
proved to have existed in the mind of the traverser in the
United States, and the guilty enterprise having actually commenced there, the traverser is guilty of a violation of the third
section of the act of the 20th of April 1818; although the
equipments were not completed in the United States, and although the cruise was not commenced, nor the Bolivar prepared to commence her cruise, until after her arrival in St
Thomas.
The section in question punishes the fitting out and arming;
the attempting to fit out and arm; the procuring to be fitted
out and armed; qnd, with a view to comprehend all who shall
have any participation in disturbing the neutral relations of
the United States, it punishes those who shall be knowingly
concerned in the furnishing,'fitting out or arming any ship
or vessel, with intent, &c. The offence charged here is for
being knowingly concerned in fitting out, &c.
The Bolivar.was in fact not only fitted out in the port of
Baltimore, but was partially armed; having on board muskets, sabres, powder and a gun carriage, and a commission to
cruise.
If it be necessary for the completion of the offence, that the
vessel should not only be fitted out, but also armed, it is manifest that this important act of congress, required by the laws of
nations, and ess-.ntial to preserve the peace of this country
with foreign nations, will become a dead letter. For it is not
only easy to evade its provisions, but at least-equally convenient to do so, by having some additional equipments, however
inconsiderable, to be effected abroad. This position admits
that the attempt to fit out and arm, however small the progress therein, is an offence; while the complete fitting out,
having a commission on board, with the most flagrant intention to privateer, is no infringement of the act. The slightest
augmentation to an armed vessel, is undeniably an offence
under the fifth section.
The policy and scope of this whole law, so far from restraining the express terms used in this section, afford the
strongest aid towards a literal construction of those terms.
The twelfth and thirteenth counts of this indictment, and the
first prayer, are drawn in the very words of the third section

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[United States v. Quincy.]

of the act in question. And if these counts and this prayer
are not sustained, it must be on the ground that the act ought to
be interpreted differently froin its obvious and literal meaning.
The reason for a strained interpretation, wNhich will have the
effect to defeat and repeal this wholesome statute, will scarcely
prevail with this court. And the authorities will be found to
overthrow such an interpretation; and to support that which
iS insisted on by the prosecution.
The exact and faithful discharge of the duties which a neutral position imposes upon governments, is among the highest
and most important of all national duties. Honour and interest
concur in making it especially binding on our own government: and while this conduct has in a very great degree promoted the prosperity of this country; it has placed the policy
and character of the nation in a high and elevated position in
the estim'ation of other powers.
In the third cirauit and Pennsylvania district, a decision
was made upon the words on which this indictment is drawn;
and it was there decided, in the case of the United States v.
Guinet, 2 Dall. 321, "that the converting a ship from her
original destination, with intent to commit hostilities; or,.in
other words, converting a merchant ship into a vessel of war,
must be deemed an original outfit, for the act would otherwise
become nugatory and inoperative. It is the conversion from
her peaceable use to the warlike purpose, that constitutes the
offence." And in this case far less advance towards arming
was made, than in the case of the Bolivar. Besides, that the
privateer "Les Jameaux" never actually proceeded on a
cruise, and yet Guinet was convicted. Whereas, in the case
at bar, the Bolivar, having actually performed her cruise and
made captures of vessels and property of nations with whom
the United States were at peace; no room is left for doubting
the object of her outfit in the port of Baltimore.
In the case of Needham et al., Peters's C. C. Rep. 487, the
same principle was decided.
Cited, also, The United States v. Glass, 3 Wash. C. C.
Rep. 65; Kent's Cummentaries, 1 vol. 114.
The decisions of this court on the acts prohibiting the slave
trade, furnish cases strikingly analogous to the one now under
argument.

SUPREME-COURT.
[United States v. Quincy.]

The expressions used in these acts seem, indeed, to require
a more complete development and fulfilment of intention, than
the neutrality acts. In the last slave trade act, which passed
at the same session as the act upon which this indictment is
framed, it is provided, that "if any ship or vessel shall be
built, fitted out, equipped, laden, or otherwise prepared, for the
purpose of procuring any negro," &c. "such ship," &c. "shall
be forfeited." The Emily and Caroline, 9 Wheat. 388; The
Plattsburgh, 10 Wheat. 141; The Uniteh States v. Goodin,
12 Wheat- 171, 173; The Alexander, 3 Mason, 177; 1 Dodson, 81, were cited.
Mr Chief Justice Marshall says, in giving the opinion of thiL
court, in 5 Wheat. 95, "that although penal laws are to be
construed strictly, they are not to be construed so strictly
as to defeat the obvious intention of the legislature. The
maxim is not to be so applied as to narrow the words of
the statute 'to the exclusion of cases which these words in
their ordinary acceptation, or in the sense in which the
legislature has obviously used them, would comprehend.
The intention of the legislature is to be collected from the
words they employ; where there is no ambiguity in the words,
there is no room for construction." Cited, also, t2 Peters,
662, opinion of Mr Justice Story.
In support of the secondpoint, it was insisted, that the intention coupled with acts tending to the accomplishment of the
object constitutes the offence, under this statute. For no
otherwise could our neutral relations be preserved with nations
belligerent towards each other. And in the description of
the offence, it differs from many common law offences, such
as robbery, murder, &c. And it is not necessary the criminal
intent should be accomplished in order to subject the party to
conviction and punishment.
As analogous, see the cases in larceny, where carrying away
is essential to the offence. Arch. P1. & Ev. 127, and the authorities there cited; and' 2 Russell's Cr. L. 1034; where,
among other similar decisions, the twelve judges of England
held, "that the removal of a parcel from the head to the tail
of a wagon, with intent to steal it, was a sufficient asportation
to constitute larceny."
In favour of the third point, it was contended, that the acts

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[United States v. Quiney.l

given in evidence in this case, so far consummated the offence,
that no locus penitentix remained for the traverser, after leaving the port of Baltimore.
The crimirial intent, and the acts consequent thereon, have
been conjoined in this case, so that there can he neither a
divorce nor a purification by a possible, or even a probable
failure of continued and successful support.
All human enterprises are subject to contingencies. The
death of the actors, the shipwreck of the vessel, &c. are among
the casualties to which every maritime adventure is exposed.
These may be supposed as much to enter into the calculation
of those who engage in such adventures, as the uncertainty
about the requisite funds influenced the mind of the traverser
in this case.
If the traverser was innocent, because his guilty enterprise
might have been defeated -or would have been defeated, if the
requisite funds had been withheld; how can any one ever be
guilty, since some contingencies must be inseparable from
every enterprise ?
Here, unfortunately for the traverser's case; and what illustrates the extravagance of this part of the defence; the contingency turned up favourably for the adventure. And that
which commenced in Baltimore was uninterruptedly prose.;
cuted to the close of a successful cruise. Cited 2East's P. C.
557; 2 Russell's C. L. 991, 1036.
In support of the fourth point, the counsel for the United
States contended:That the word people was descriptive of an independent
government, acknowledged by the United States, as the word
is used in this act.
This word has no technical meaning, for which it invariably
stands; and to which courts are obliged, as in technical words,
always to annex the same ideas, as e. g. the words felonious,
traitorous,&c. Nor is this word used in this act in opposition, or made to have a more limited meaning than ordinary,
by reason of being placed. in connexion with other words,
by which its general and usual meaning could be affected.
There is nothing in the context here to indicate the legislative intention, that this word was to be understood in any
other than its ordinary or vernacular sense.

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Quincy.]

If there lie any thing remarkable in the use made of the word
peop7e, in this government and country it is in its enlarged,
rather than its restricted sense. And it cannot be shown, by
examples, that congress ever use it in a narrow interpretation.
The largest state in the confederation uses the word as
descriptive of its corporate character: ",Tie people of New
York."1
But the meaning of this word must be ascertained by reference to standard authorities; and Johnson, Crabbe's Synonymes, were referred to.
The traverser's counsel;-in asking the court to support his
fourth prayer, upon the- ground that the "provinces of Rio
de la Plat " were not a people, because they had been acknowledged by the government of the United States, thereby to
overthrow this indictment,-makes a demand, founded only on
a gratuitous hypothesis, and deriving no support, either from
authority or popular usage.
A wholesome rule for the construction of words used in
criminal as well as in civil cases, will be found in 1 Chitty,
C, L. 172, laid down by lord Ellenborough. "Except in
particular cases, where precise technical expressions are required to be used, there is no rule that other words shall be
be employed than such as are in ordinary use, or that in indictments or other pleadings a different sense is to be put upon
them, than what they bear in ordinary acceptation," &c.
Mr Wirt for the defendant. The only two counts in the
indictment for the conaideration of the court, are the twelfth and
thirteenth; which are founded on the act of congress of 1818,
for the punishment of certain crimes. The difference between
the counts is in the manner of laying the intent charged to
the defendant; the twelfth charges that the defendant with the
intent that such vessel be employed; the thirteenth, with intent that such vessel should be employed.
The prayers of the traverser -are foundea on the evidence;
and they called upon the court to say, whether, on the hypothesis that the jury should believe certain facts which his
counsel considered as fairly deducible from the evidence, there
had been any violation of the statute on which the indictment
is founded.

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[United Statks v. Quincy.]

The statute is one of a peculiar character, growing out of
peculiar circumstances, and directed to a, peculiar object connected with our neutral rights, on the one hand, and some
neutral obligations on the other, which distinguish it from the
slave act, and the other acts of congress with which the argument for the United States has sought t6 confound it. It demands a construction of its own; which it is for the first time
to receive in this court.
The course of argument proper to be pursued, is, first, to
examine the act upon its own construction; and, second, to
show the substantial difference between its provisions, and
those of the slave and other acts with which it has been so
confounded.
1. To examine the aet #in its own construction.
The object of all construction is to arrive at the intention of
the legislature. The.direct mode of doing this, is by looking
at the language of the law; but there are other auxiliary modes
of arriving at this intention, to which courts also resort for
the purpose. One of the most familiar rules for interpreting
statutes is to refer to the old law, the mischief and the remedy-that is, to look to the history of the act; the cause
which produced it; and the precise object which it was intended to attain. Preston v. Browden, 1 Wheaton.
For this salutary purpose, and with this legitimate object,
the court will p6rmit a reference to the history and pecullar
circumstances which produced the act of congress now under
consideration.
This act, as is well known to the court, is only a transcript
of the act of 1794, so far as this prosecution is concerned.
The act of 1794 was produced by an attempt on the part of
M. Genet, the minister of France, to take advantage of the
,intense sympathies of this country in behalf of revolutionary
France, to involve the United States in the war between that
country and Great Britain, and the powers allied with her against
France.
This was the mischief.which produced the statute; and it is
necessary that the court should have a precise view of this
mischief, in order to measure the corresponling remedy in the
statute. They are referred for the circumstances under which
the statute was passed- to 5 Marshall's Life of Washington,
VOL. VI.-3 H

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Quincy.]
2, 3; 441, 2, 3. The Message
409, 10, 11; 427, 8; 430,
of the President, Dec. 3, 1792, 1 State Papers, 39, 40. Proclamation of Neutrality, I State Papcrs, 44, 5, 6.
All that was required by the government, and the whole
purpose of the law, was to preserve our neutral relations, as
enjoined by the law of nations; and as the rules and regulations which had be-n prescribed by President Washington in
the proclamation, had been declared to go all' the length of
our neutral obligations; why should it be supposed that congress intended to go farther, to the unnecessary and extreine
prejudice of the American trade?
The mischief had been, the arming and equipping vessels in
our ports, and sallying out thence in warlike array to cruise
and commit hostilities on foreign nations, with which we were
at peace: that was the mischief; and why should the remedy
be more extensive ? It *was declared in the instructions,
that a vessel whose equipments were so equivocal as to be applicable either to commerce or war, was not a.proper object
of seizure or molestation. No obligation of neutrality required
us to disturb her; while a just regard to the rights of neutral
trade, required that she should be left at liberty to pursue her
own course, free from molestation.
It is now insisted, on the part of the traverser in this case,
that the act under consideration, with this light of its history
collected upon it; is -manifestly intended to cover no more
ground than the executive rules and regulations, which have
been referred to.
Having thus brought the .history of the act to aid in its
construction, the rule that penal statutes shall be interpreted
strictly, is invoked to aid in the further consideration of the
application of the law to the case made out by the United States
on the testimony.
A careful scrutiny of the language of this act, following, as
it did, close on the proclamation of President Washington, and
adverting to the views and purposes of its enactment, as
shown by its history; will satisfy the court that the position
assumed for the traverser is fully sustained. The offence to
be punished was the fitting out and arming any ship or vessel
within the ports of the United States, intended to be employed
in hostilities against the subjects of any foreign state, in amity
with us.

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[United States v. Quincy.]

The meaning of the terms fitting out andarmingis, that
the vessel shall be both fitted out and armed; and to be so
fitted out and armed, as to be placed in a condition to commit
hostilities. The whole of tie purp9se of the law was this,
and the vessel was to be completely fitted out and armed in
our own ports, and was to be put in a condition, and with a
capacity to commit hostilities immediately.' Nothing else,
and nothing less than this was the purpose of the law.
Between the attempt to fit out and arm, and the fitting out
and arming, there is a wide and important difference. To fit out
and arm is to do the thing completely; to attempt to fit out and
arm means that the party has begun it, but has been prevented
accomplishing the purpose by the interference of the government. He has all the guilt of the intention, because his intention was to fit out and arm completely in our ports, in violation
of the act. It is therefore incumbent on the prosecution to
prove that the object of the traverser was to fit out and arm
completely; and in all respects to place in a state for immediate
hostilities, th.e vessel referred to in the indictment.
The argument submitted to the court is, that the third section of the act on which the indictment is founded makes the
offence to consist in fitting out and arming, which is an entire act; and requires the vessel to be placed in a postt.re for
war, in a condition to commit immediate hostilities, before the
offence is completed; such being the only rational meaning of
the words of the statute. That if the indictment charges the
attempt, the charge must not beof an attempt to fit oat merely, but of an attempt to fit out and arm; that if it charge a
procurement, the charge must not be that the accused procured the vessel to be fitted out merely, but that he procured
her to be fitted out and armed. In these three descriptions
the law is looking at the prime actor, for he is described as
the person who fits out and arms; or attempts to fiu out and
arm; or procures to be fitted out and armed: he is the actor,,
or the procurer.
With regard to the principal or prime actor, it is not said if
he knowingly does the thing; for knowledge is involved in
the very description of the offence; but the language of the
law as to those who were concerned in furnishing any of the
materials is different; this mhst have been done knowingly.

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Quincy.]

With respect to those persons their participation is manifestly
of an accessorial character: they are not indeed called accessories, but the language in which the agency is described, construed with that in which the operations of the principal are
described; manifest that the legislature was looking at them in
an accessorial light. There is, then, in a fair construction of
the law, a principal in the offence, and an accessory. But the
offence must have been committed; there must have been a
fitting out and arming, or an attempt to'fit out and arm, or the
principal actor has been guilty of no offence; and it could not
have been intended to punish the secondary or accessorial
actor, if the principal actor has not been guilty of an offence.
This would be the case, if to attempt to fit out, not being an
offence, any one had, knowingly, furnished articles to the vessel
to be used for that purpose: and yet, if before the complete
fitting out and arming had been accomplished, the vessel
had been seized, and this consummation prevented, the prime
actor would not have been indictable under the law. Thus
the part of a transaction becomes a crime in one citizen, while
the whole of it is not a crime in another. The construction
on the. other side is, that the law meant to punish, not merely
the consummation of the act, the fitting out and arming, but
every step that is taken towards it; so that the itting out,
per se, becomes an offence, is a crime, without arming. But
if this had been the intentibn of congress the copulation and
W3ould have found no place in the description: the language of
the law would have been "fit out or arm," and httempt to fit
out or arm.
The following cases were cited and commented upon, 1
Wheat. 121; 5 Wheat. 76, 94; 1 Gallison, 114; 1 Paine's C.
C. Rep. 32; 2 Wheat. 119; 3 Dallas, 328; the case of Smith
and Ogden, 240; Peters's C. C. Rep. 487; 9 Wheat. 389; 10
Wheat. 141; 12 Wheat. 472.
The intent charged against a defendant under the act should
be a fixed and positive intent, not in any manner contingent.
The vessel in this case was in a condition to be considered as
going out as a commercial vessel-she had no crew for warno muskets-no ammunition. The offence must be consummated within the United States, and the intent is not to be
collected trom what occurred afterwards.

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Uited States v. Quincy.]

The evidence shows, that until the vessel arrived at St
Thomas the purpose of privateering was uncertain. It depended for its accomplishment on the receipt of funds there,
and for some time this was uncertain. If the vessel had been
sold on her arrival in the West Indies, most certainly the
defendant could not be found guilty. The intention in cases
of larceny is not like this; in those cases, where a slight
asportation has taken place, it is sufficient to constitute the
offence. But there the act is complete by such removal.
The objection to calling the government of Rio de la Plata
"a people" is purely technical, growing out of the case of
Gelston v. Hoyt. This related to the situation of Piteon and
Christophe in St Domingo; and the court, in that case, said
neither could be considered a state. The word people applies
to a community in the course of revolution, and not yet settled
down. But this was not the situation of Buenos Ayres. It
was a state, and should have been so described. The object of
the law was to include political communities of every denomination. The court cannot know but that there may be a people
called Buenos Ayres; a reference to particulars would not cure
the defect. BuenosAyres being a state, should have been so
denominated.
Mr Williams, in reply.
The Bolivar did not sail from the United States as a merchant vessel, for she had no cargo; nor was there ever produced
any account of sales of an outward cargo. She carried out
nothing but provisions for a privateer's crew, and munitions
of war. The whole invoice cost only six hundred and eightyseven dollars and eighty-one cents; whereas she was advertised
by the traverser to be a vessel capable of carrying from four
to five hundred barrels.
At the time when the first neutrality act was passed (1794),
the unjustifiable acts consisted in not only fitting out, but also
in arming; and therefore, this description of the offence in the
act, as wxell as in the correspondence of the executive department, becomes the most prominent. But the act would have
been soon found to be wholly inefficient, if more ample provisions had not been enacted. If, in Genet's time, he had set
on foot the fitting out of privateers from this country, to be

SUPREME COURT.
[United .States v. Quincy.]
armed in the West Indies, can it be doubted that our government would have denounced this practico as contrary to our
neutrality and the laws of nations?
The case in 2 Wheaton, relating to the transportation of
oxen across the line, favours our construction. There it was
attempted, for the United States, to bring a case within the
operation of a penal law, which the letter of the law did not
cover. Here the indictment, and the act on which it is drawn,
comprehend, in their letter and spirit, the very case of the
traverser.
The fourth class of offences in the third section, is not confined to accessorialparticipators, but is calculated and intended
to comprehepd all parties concerned in fitting out or in arming.
The argument on the part of the traverser requires words to
be interpolated into the law; and contradicts the rule, that an
indictment, drawn in the words of the act, is sufficient. For
if the arming, as well as fitting out, must be proved, so also
ought it to be averred in the indictment.
The slave trade acts are, manifestly, analogous to the neutrality acts; and the mischiefs of the former trade are not
greater than those which flow from'violating the latter acts.
For to the lawless practice of privateering, may be ascribed the
growing prevalence of pirac3.
Mr Justice Tiiompso-N delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case comes up from the circuit court of the United
States for the Maryland district, on a division of opinion of
the judges, upon certain instructions prayed for to the jury.
The indictment upon which the defendant was put upon his
trial, contains a number of counts, to which the testimony did
not apply, and which are not now drawn in 'question. The
twelfth andthirteenth are the only counts to which the eviddnce applied; and the offence charged in each of these is substantially the same; to wit, that the said John D. Quincy, on
the 31st day of December 1828, at the district of Maryland,
&c. with force and arms, was knowingly concerned- in the fitting out 9f a certain vessel called the Bolivar, otherwise called
Las Damas Argentinas, with intent that such vessel should be
employed in the service of a foreign people, that is to say, in
the service of the United Provinces of Rio de la Plata, to con-

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[United Staltes v. Quincy.]

mit hostilities against the subjects of a foreign prince; that is
to say, against the subjects of his imperial majesty, the constitutional emperor and perpetual defender of Brazil, with
whom the United States then were, and still are at peace,
against the form of the act of congress in such case made and
provided.
The act of congress under which the indictment was found,
6th vol. Laws U. S. 321, sect. 3, declares, "that if any person shall, within the limits of the United States, fit out and
arm, or attempt to fit out and arm, or procure to be fitted out
and armed, or shall knowingly be concerned in the furnishing,
fitting out, or arming of any ship or vessel, with intent that
such ship or vessel shall be employed in the service of any
foreign prince or state, or of any colony, district or people, to
cruise or commit hostilities against the subjects, citizens or
property of any foreign prince or state, or of any colony, district or people with whom the United States are at peace, &c.
every person so offending, shall be deemed guilty of a high
misdemeanour, and shall be fined not more than ten thousand
dollars, and imprisoned not more than three years, &e.
The testimony being closed, several prayers, both on the
part of tle United States and of the defendant, were presented
to the court for their opinion and direction to tie jury; and
upon which the opinions of the judges were opposed, and which
will now be noticed in the order in which they were made.
On the part of the- defendant the court was requested to
charge the jury, that if they believe that when the Bolivar left
Baltimore, and when she arrived at St Thomas, and during
the voyage from Baltimore to St Thomas, she was not armed,
or at all prepared for war, or in a condition to cormit hostilities, the verdict must be for the defendant.
The prayer on the part of the United States upon this part
of the case, was, in substance, that if the jury find from the
evidence that the defendant was, within the district of Maryland, knowingly concerned in the fitting out the privateer
Bolivar, with intent that she should be employed in the manner alleged in the indictment, then the defendant was guilty
of the offence charged against him, although the jury should
find that the equipments of the said- privateer were not complete within the United States, and that the cruise did not

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Quincy.]

actually commence until men were recruited, and further
equipments were made at the island of St Thomas in the West
Indies.
The instruction which ought to be given to the jury under
these prayers involves the construction of the act of congress,
touching the extent to which the preparation of the vessel for
cruising or committing hostilities must be carried before she
leaves the limits of the United States, in order to bring the
case within the act.
On the part of the defendant it is contended, that the vessel
must be fitted out and armed, if not complete, so far at least
as to be prepared for war, or in a condition to commit hostilities. We do not think this is the true construction of the act.
it has been argued that although the offence created by the act
is a misdemeanour, and there cannot, legally speaking, be
principal and accessory, yet the act evidently contemplates
two distinct classes of offenders. The principal actors who are
directly engaged in preparing the vessel, and another class
who, though not the chief actors, are in some way concerned
in the preparation.
Thp act in this respect may not be drawn with very great
perspicuity. But should the view taken of it by the defendant's counsel be deemed correct (which, however, we do nqt
admit), it is not perceived how it can affect the present case.
For the indictment, according to this construction, places the
defendant in the secondary class of offenders. He is only
charged with being knowingly concerned in the fitting out
the vessel, with intent that she should be employed, &c. To
bring him within the words of the act, it is not necessary to
charge him with being concerned in fitting out and arming.
The words of the act are, fitting out or arming. Either will
constitute the offence. But it is said such fitting out must be
of a vessel armed, and in a condition to commit hostilities,
otherwise the minor actor may be guilty when the greater
would not. -For as to the latter there must be a fitting out
and arming in order to bring him within the law. If this
construction of the act be well founded, the indictment ought
to-charge,'that thedefendant was concerned in fitting out the
Bolivar, being a vessel fitted out and armed, &c. But this,
we ap hend, is not required. It would be going beyond

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[United States v. Quiney.]

the plain meaning of the words used in defining the offence.
It is sufficient if the indictment charges the offence in the
words of the act; and it cannot be necessary to prove what is
not charged. It is true, that with respect to those who have
been denominated at the bar the chief actors, the law would
seem to make it necessary that they should be ch'arged with
fitting out and arming. These words may require that both
should concur; and the vessel be put in a condition to commit
hostilities, in order to bring her within the law. But an attempt to fit out and arm is made an offence. This is certainly
doing something short of a complete fitting out and arming.
To attempt to do an act does not, either in law or in" bommon
parlance, imply a completion of the act, or any definite progress towards it. Any effort or endeavour to effect it will
satisfy the terms of the law.
This varied phraseology in the law, was probably employed
with a view to embrace all persons of every description who
might be engaged, directly or indirectly, in preparing vessels
with intent that they should be employed in committing hostilities against any powers with whom the United States were
at peace.
Different degrees of criminality will necessarily
attach to persons thus engaged.
Hence the great latitude
given to the courts in affixing the punishment, viz. a fine not
more than ten thousand dollars, and imprisonment not more
than three years.
We are accordingly of opinion, that it is not necessary that
the jury should believe or find that the Bolivar, when she left
Baltimore, and when she arrived at St Thomas, and during
the voyage from Baltimore to St Thomas, was armed, or in a
condition to commit hostilities, in order to find the defendant
guilty of the offence charged in the indictment.
The first instruction therefore prayed on the part of the defendant must be denied, and that on the part of the United

States given.
The second and third instructions asked on the part of" the
defendant, were:
That if the jury believe, that when the Bolivar was fitted
and equipped at Baltimore, the owner and equipper intended
to go to the West Indies in search of funds, with which to
arm and equip the said vessel, and had no present intention
VOL. VI.-3 I

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Quincy.]

of using or employing the said vessel as a privateer, but intended, when he equipped her, to go to the West Indies, to
endeavour to raise funds to prepare her for a cruise; then the
defendant is not guilty.
Or; if the jury believe, that when the Bolivar was equipped
at Baltimore, and when slie left the United States, the equipper
had no fixed intention to employ her as a privateer, but had
a wish so to employ her, the fulfilment of which wish depended on his ability to obtain funds in the West Indies, for
the lurpose of arming and preparing her for war; then the defendant is not guilty.
We think these instructions ought to be given. The offence
consists principally in the intention with which the preparations were made. These preparations, according to the very
terms of the act, must be made within the limits of the United
States; and it is equally necessary that the intention with. respect to the employment of the vessel should be formed before she leaves the United States. And this must be a fixed
intention; not conditional or contingent, depending on some
future arrangements. This intention is a question belonging
exclusively to the jury to decide. It is the material point on
which the legality or crirhinality of the act must turn; and
decides whether the adventure is of a commercial or warlike
character.
The law does not prohibit armed vessels belonging to citizens of the United States from sailing out of our ports; it only
requires the owners to give security (as was done in the present case) that such vessels shall not be employed by them to
commit hostilities against foreign powers at peace with the
United States.
The collectors are not authorised to detain vessels, although
manifestly built for warlike purposes, and about to depart from
the United States, unless circumstances shall renler it probable, that such vessels are intended to be employed by the
owners to commit hostilities 'against some foreign power, at
peace with the United States.
All ihe latitude, therefore, necessary for commercial. purposes, is given to our citizens; and they are restrained only
from such acts as are calculated to involve the country in war.
The second and third instructions asked on the part of the

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[United States v. Quincy.]

United States ought also to be given. For if the jury shall
find (as the instructions assume) that the defendant was knowingly concerned in fitting out the Bolivar within the United
States, with the intent that she should be employed as set forth
in the indictment,that intention being defeated by what might
afterwards take place in the West Indies, would not purge the
offence which was previously consummated. It is not necessary that the design or intention should be carried into execution in order to constitute the offence.
The last instruction or opinion asked on the part of the
defendant was:
That according to the evidence in the cause, tle United
Provinces of Rio de la Plata is, and was at the time of the
offence alleged in the indictment, a government acknowledged
by the United States, and thus was a state, and nbt a people
within the meaning of the act of congress under which the
defendant is indicted; the word people in that act being intended to describe communities under an existing government
not recognized by the United States; and that the indictment
therefore cannot be supported on this evidence.
The indictment charges that the defendant was concerned
in fitting out the Bolivar, with intent that she should be employed ii the service of a foreign people; that is to say, in the
service of the United Provinces of Rio de la Plata. It was
in evidence, that the United Provinces of Rio de la Plata had
been regularly acknowledged as an independent nation by
the executive department of the government of the United
States, before the year 1827. And therefore it is argued that
the word people is not properly applicable to that nation or
power.
The objection is one purely technical, and we think not
well founded. The word people, ag here used, is merely
descriptive of the power in whose service the vessel was intended to be employed: and it is one of the denominations
applied by the act of congress to a foreign power. The
words are, "in the service of any foreign prince or state, or of
any colony, district orpeople." The application of the word
people is rendered suffieiently certain by what follows under
the videlicet, "' that is to say, the United Provinces of Rio de
la Plata." This particularises that which by the word peo-

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Quincy.]

ple is left too general. The descriptions are no way repugnant or inconsistent with each other, and may well stand
together. That which comes under the videlicet, only serves
to explai4 what is doubtful and obscure in the word people.
This instruction must therefore be denied, and the one
asked on the part of the United States, viz. that the indictment
is sufficient in law, must be given.
These answers must accordingly be certified to the circuit
court.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit couit of the United States'for the district of Maryland, and on the points and questions on which the
judges of the said circuit court were opposed in opinion, and
which were certified to this court for its opinion, agreeably to
the act of congress in such case made and provided, and was
argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, it is the opinion
of this Court,
1. That it is not necessary that the jury should believe or
find that the Bolivar, when she left Baltimore, and whtn she
arrived at St -7homas, and during the voyage from Baltimore
to St Thomas, was armed, or in a condition to commit hostilities, in order to find the defendant guilty of the offence charged
in the indictment. Therofof'e, the first instruction prayed for
on the part of the defendant, must be denied, and that on the
part of the United States given.
2. That the second and third instructions asked for on the
part of the defendant should be given.
3. That the second and third instructions asked for on the
part of ihe United States should also be given.
4. That the fourth instruction asked for on the part of the
defendant must be denied, and the one asked on the part of
the United States, viz. that the indictment is sufficient in law,
must be given. It is therefore ordered and adjudged by this
court that it be certified to the said circuit court:
1. That it is not necessary that the jury should belie e or
find that the Bolivar, when she left Baltimore, and 'hen she
arrived at St Thomas, and during the voyage from Baltimore
to St Thomas, was armed, or in a condition f ronnrnit livstili-

JANUARY TERM 1832.

469

[United States v. Quincy.]

ties, in order to find the defendant guilty of the offence charged
in the indictment. Therefore, the first instruction prayed on
the part of the defendant must he denied, and that on the part
of the United States given.
2. That the second and third instructions asked for on the
part of the defendant should be given.
3. That the second and third instructions asked for on the
nart of the United States should also be given.
4. That the fourth instruction asked for on the part of the
defendant must be denied; and the one asked on the part of
the United States, viz. that theindictment is sufficient in law,
must be given.

