JANUARY TERM 1832.

THomAs

LELAND AND OTHERS V. DAVID WILKINSON.

A paper certified by the secretary of state of Rhode Island, and by the governor,
under the seal of the state, stating that certain laws were passed by the legis-

lature of that state, and that certain matters were cognizable by the general
assembly of Rhode Island, and of the practice of the assembly of Rhode Island
in eases of a particular description; is not evidence on ihe argument ofa cause
before this court. Usage and custom sheovld be proved in the circuit court on
the trial of the case in which it may be referred to; and evidence nf the same
is not admissible in this court, if not found in the record.
A certificate from the secretary ofstate of the state of Rhode Island, also certified
by the governor under the seal of the state, was offered to prove that certain
proceedings have been had at different times in the legislature of Rhode Island
on private petitions, relative to the administration and sale of theestates of deceased persons for the payment of their debts; and that there have been certain
usages and proceedihgs in the legislature of that state in.regard to the same.
By the court: the prblic laws of a state may, without question, be read in this
cnurtt and the exercise of any authority Wihich they contain may be derived
historically from them. But private laws, and special proceedings of this cha.
racter, are governed by a different rule. They are matters of fact, to be proved
as such in the ordinary mannzr. This court cannot go into an inquiry as to
the existence of such facts upon a writ of .error, if they are not found in the
record.

THIS case came before the court on a certificate of division in
opinion of the judges of the circuit court of the United States
for the district of Rhode Island.
The same cause was before the court on a writ of error at
January term 1829. 2 Peters, 267. The case was again tried in
the circuit court of Rhode Island at June term 1830; and the
points on which the judges of that court were divided were
certified to this court.
After the case had been argued by AIr Dutton for the
plaintiff, with whom also was Mr Webster; Mr Whipple for
the defendant, with whom also was Mr Wirt, proposed to read,
as evidence of the law of Rhode Island upon the probate of
wills and granting of administration, and of the other matters
therein stated, the following certificate:
"State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations. Secretary's office, January 7, 1832. I certify, that from an dxamination of the records of said state it appears, that on the 1st
day of March 1663. an act was passed entitled, "an act for

SUPREME COURT.
Leland and others v. Wilkinson.

That
the piobate of wills and granting of administrations."
in and by said act the probate of wills and granting administrations was vested in the ton councils of the respective towns:
that an appeal lay to the governor and council as supreme ordinary or- judge of probates, who continued to exercise such
jurisdiction until June 1802, when all appeals then pending,
with the jurisdiction thereof, were transferred to the supreme
judicial court, by whom it is now exercised.
I further certify, that from the year 1666 until June 1729,
th3 general assembly took cognizance of and tried appeals
from the general court of trials; which court was composed
of the governor, deputy governor, and assistants. That at
June session 1729, an act was passed establishing a superior
.court of judicature, consisting of the governor, deputy governor, and assistants. That thereby an appeal in personal
actions was allowed from said superior court to the general
assembly. That the general assembly c'ontinued to try appeals therefrom until June 1741, when a court of equity was
established and authorised to hear appeals in personal actions
from the superior court of judicature agreeable to law and
equity, in as full and extensive manner as the general assembly had been accustomed to do. That in February 1743, an
act was passed abolishing said court of equity, and authorising
said superior court to review causes by them decided.
I. further certify, that the general assembly of the colony,
and also of the state, have been and now are accustomed to
exercise a revisory power in granting new trials, upon petition
therefor.
That the assembly have and now do license the sales of real
estate for the payment of debts of persons deceased, upon petition of the executor or administrator; and also license the
sale of the real estate of minors upon petition of the guardi,
HENRY BowEir, Secretary.
Witness,
Arnold, governor, capttinLemuel
H.
By his excellency,
general and commander-in-chief of the state of Rhode Island
and Providence Plantations. Be it known that the name
"Henry Bowen," to the aforesaid written attestation subscribed, is the proper hand writing of Henry Bowen, Esquire,
who, at the time of subscribing the same, was secretary of the
state aforesaid, duly elected and qualified according to law:

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Leland and others v. Wilkinson.)

wherefore, unto his said attestation full faith and credit are to
bc rendered.
I, testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand and
caused the seal of said state to be affixed, at Providence, this
seventh day of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand
eight hundred and thirty-two, and of independence the fiftysixth.
LEMUEL H. ARNOLD.
By his excellency's eommand. HENRY BowEN, Secr'y."
Mr Webster objected to the introduction of this paper in
evidence.
NlI Justice Baldwin.

It is evidence of local law.

Mr Just*ce Thompson. The paper is evidenced of the dates
of the laws, but ft is otherwise inadmissible. If it is offered
as evidence of a custom in Rhode Island, it should have been
laid before the jury, by whom the question whether such was
the custom should have been decided. The facts stated in
the certificate cannot be inquired into by this court in this
form.
Mr Justice Story. It is incompetent evidence. The laws
must be produced to show what they are, and their dates.
They may be certified by the officer. If the usage of the state
of Rhode Island is to'be inquired into, it should be established
in the court below.
Mr Justice Duvall and IrJustice M'Lean concurred with
Mr Justice Story.
Mr Chief Justice Marshall considered the certificate evidence
that there were such laws as those stated in it; but the laws
should be produced. He would have been willing thht the
paper should be read, unless objected to; but being objected to,
it was not evidence.
Mr Whipple then offered in evidence, to show the course
of legislation in Rhode Island in particular cases, a copy of the
proceedings of the legislature upon petitions presented for
relief in the cases stated in them. Tile copy of the proceedings

SUPREME COURT.
[Leland and others v. Wilkinson.]

in each case was certified by Henry Bowen, secretary of state
of the st, e of Rhode Island, and to the whole was subjoined
the certificate of Lemuel Arnold, "governor, captain-general
and commander-in-chief of the state of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations," under the seal of the state, that "Henry
Bowen was secretary of the state," duly elected and qualified
according to law.
The paper thus certified and offered in evidence, contained a
copy of a petition to the legislature of Rhode Island, dated New
York, 23th November 1784, signed by "Grace Babcock, of
Philipsborough in the state of New York, widow, relict of
Luke Babcock, clerk." The petitioner prayed the legislature
to authorise her to dispose of a mortgage held by her husband
at the time of his decease, on one fourth part of a lot ad dwelling hpuse in New York. Luke Babcock left three minor
children. On the 3d March 1785, the prayer of the petition
was granted; and by resolution it was declared that a deed of
the mortgaged premises should" " convey to the purchaser all
the right and title of said Luke Babcock, at the time of his decease, in and unto the said premises."
2. Also the petitior of John Read of the cot y of Bristol,
in the state of Massachusetts, presented on the last Monday in
June 1785. John Read was the executor of William Read of
the same county and state, deceased.
The petition stated, that the property of the deceased had,
on the report of a commissioner, been adjudged capable of
paying no more than twelve shillings and sixpence in the
pound. That an attachment had been issued against the real
estate of the deceased in Newport, and againsC his heirs and
devisees by one of the creditors, for money alleged to be due
to him, and a judgment obtained thereon. The petition prayed
that the action so brought might be stayed, the demand of the
plaintiff should be 4 examined; -and for such sum as should be
found due to him, he may be admitted to receive his proportion with the other creditors of 'the said estate;" and that such
part of the real estate of William Read, situate in the county
of Newport, should be sold, as should be sufficient to pay his
debts, under the direction, and with the approbation of the
judge. of probate for the city of Newport, or the town council
in which the estate laid; and that the deed or deeds for the

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Leland and others v. Wilkinson.]

same, should convey to the purchaser a good and indefeasible
estate of inheritance in fee simple. The legislature, by a resolution passed July 1, 1785, granted the prayer of the petition;
and also "resolved, with the consent of the attaching creditor,
that the proceeding on his aforesaid action be stayed."
3. Also the petition of Lucy Jenks, "widow and relict of
Gideon Jenks of Brookfield, in the county of Worcester, Massachusetts, deceased, and administratrix to the said deceased's
estate." The petition stated that "there were debts against
the estate of the deceased, amounting to two hundred and
twenty-eight pounds sixteen shillings and sixpence, and that
selling the personal estate to discharge them, would greatly
distress the petitioner and her children, being eleven in number, all in their minority excepting one daughter."
The
petition prayed leave to dispose of all the real estate of the
deceased in North Providence, in the county of Providence,
to be appropriated towards the paynent of the said debts, as
recommended by the judge of probate for the county of Worcester aforesaid. On the 8th September 1790, the legislature
voted "that the petition be received, and the prayer thereof
be granted."
The proceedings of the legislature of Rhode Island, in six
other cases, on the petitions of individuals in matters of a private nature, were also certified in the same manner.
Mr Webster, for the plaintiffs, objected to the admission of
the papers as evidence. They were private acts; and if they
are to be given in evidence, it would be necessary and proper
for the plaintiffs to have an opportunitk to examine into the
facts of the cases to which the laws refer.
Mr Wirt, for the defendant, contended, that the evidence
was legal. There is no written constitution in Rhode Island,
and the proceedings now offered are adduced to show the law
and practice of the state by her highest tribunal, in the full
and indoubted exercise of the powers entrusted to it.
The judges having severally expressed their opinion, Mr
Chief Justice MARSHALL said, the evidence objected to is
understood to be offered to prove that certain proceedings have
VOL. IV.-2 Q

SUPREME COURT.
[Leland and others v. Wilkinson.]

been had at different times in the legislature of Rhode Island,
on private petitions of a similar nature with that before the
court; and that there haye been certain usages and proceedings
in the legislature of Rhode Island, in regard to the administration and sale of the estates of deceased persons for their debts,
which will establish, that it has for a long period by usage, and
rightfully, exercised the authority contended for by the defendant. The public laws of a state may without question be read
in this court; and the exercise of any authority which they
contain, may be deduced historically from them: but private
laws, and special proceedings of the character spoken of, are
governed by a different rule. They are matters of fact, to be
.proved as such in the ordinary manner. This court cannot
go into an inquiry as to the existence of snch facts upon a writ
of error, if they are not found on the record. The evidence,
if not objected to, might have been heard; but since it is controverted, the matter of fact must be ascertained in the circuit
court.
Mr Justice

BALDWIN

dissented.

[Upon this decision, the parties consented to remand the
cause to the circuit court for further inquiry into the facts.]

