328

SUPREME COURT.

DANIEL BOARDMAN AND OTHERS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR V.

THE LESSEES OF REED AND

FORD, M'C.ALL AND OTHERS,

DEFENDANTS IN ERROR.
In an ejectment a witness was-called to prove that's person who was dead had,
at a former trial between the plaintiffi and some of the defendants to recover
the land in controversy, sworn that an anciently marked corner tree was found
by him at a particular point, of a different kind of timber from that called-for
in a patent to one Young. No part of the survey of Young was involved in
the controversy in this suit; and with several other surveys it was unly laid
down by the surveyor, as by showing certain connexions it might conduce to
identify the land claimed by the plaintiffs. As the evidence was not given
between the same parties, this testimony could, only be received as hearsay;
and was not admissible.
That boundaries may be proved by hearsay testimony, is a rule well settled, and
the necessity or propriety of which is not now questioned. Some difference
of opinion may exist as to the application of this rule, but there is none as to
its legal force.
Landmarks are frequently found of perishable materials, wrich pass away with
the generation in which they are made. By the improvemelit of the country,
and from other causes, they are often destroyed. It is therefore important in
many cases that hearsay or reputation should be received to establish ancient
boundaries. But such testimony must be pertinent and material to the issue
between the parties. If it have no relatiop to the subject, or if it refer to a
fact which is immaterial to the point of inquiry, it ought not to be admitted.
In an ejectment for land in the state of Virginia, the distiict court for the western
district of Virginia instructed the jury "that the grant to the plaintiffs which
was given in evidence, was a complete appropriation of the land therein described, and vested in the patentee the title; and that any defects in the pre.
liminary steps by which it was acquired, were cured by the grant." By the
court: there can be no doubt of the correctness of this instruction. This
court have repeatedly decided that no facts behind the patent can be investigated. A court of law has concurrent jurisdiction with a court of equity in
matters of fraud; but the defect of an entry or survey cannot be taken advantage of at law. The patent appropriates the land, and gives the legal title to
the patentee.
Titles acquired under sales for taxes depend upon different principles: where an
individual claims land under a tax sale, he must show that the substantial requisites of the law have been observed. But this is never necessary where
the claim rests on a patent from the commonwealth. The preliminary steps
may be investigated in chancery, when an elder equitable right is asserted;
but this cannot be done at law.
If the grant appropriates the land, it is only necessary for the person who claims
under it to identify the land called for. Whether the entry was made in legal
form, or the survey was executed agreeably to the calls of the entiy, are not
matters which can be examined at law., When, from the evidence, the existence of a certain fact may be doubtful, either from want of certainty in the

JANUARY TERM i32.
[Boardman and others v. The Lessees of Reed and k dff, et at.]
proof, or by reason of conflicting evidence, a court may be callea upon to give
instructions in reference to supposable facts. But this a court is Meyer bound
to do, where the facts are clear and uncontradicted.
That certain calls in a patent may be explained, or controlled by other call, was
settled by fhis court in the case of Stringer'sLessee v Young, 3 Peters, 320,.
If the point had not been so adjudged, it would be too clear on general principles to admit of serious doubt.
The entire description of the patent must be taken, and the identity of the land
ascertained by a reasonable construction of the language used. If there be a
repugnant call, which by the other calls of the patent clearly appears to have
been made through mistake, that does not make void the patent. But if the
land granted be so inaccurately described as to render its identity wholly uncertain, it is admitted that the grant is void.
The meaning of the parties to written instruments must bo ascertained by tha
tenor of the writing, and not by looking at a part of it; and if a latent ambiguity
arises from the language used, it may be explained by parol.
An entry of land in a county which is afterwards divided, does not, after the division, authorise a survey in the original county, if the land falls within the
new county.

ERROR to the district court of the United States, for the
western district of Virginia.
This was an ejectment brought in the district court of the
United States for the western district of Virginia, by the defendants in error, against the plaintiffs in error, for the recovery of eight thousand acres of land in the now county of
Lewis, within the said district. The premises in question,
are parcel of a large connexion of surveys made together, for
Reed and Ford, for Thomas Laidley and John Young, and
others-some in the name of one, and som in the namies of
others of the owners. The whole connexion of surveys is
represented by the connected diagram made out and reported
by the surveyor of Harrison county, pursuant to an order made
in the cause, and appearing in the record. On that diagram,
the premises in question are particularly represented.
The plaintiffs below counted on a number of separate demises from the defendants in error; all of which were stated
on the record as having been made by citizens of Pennsylvania, on the 1st of January 1820.
On the trial, the defendants below tendered the following
bill of exceptions:
*Upon the trial of this cause, a draft-and report returned
by a surveyor in obedience to an order of survey made in this
cause, was given in evidence to. the jury, which draft and
VOL. VI.--2 R

SUPREME COURT.
[Boardman and others v. The Lessees of Reed and Ford, et aL]

report are in the words following, viz. (setting out the same).
The plaintiff, in order to show the title of the lessors to the land
in controversy, represented by. the red lines on said draft, gave
in evidence the patent under tvhich they claim, in these words,
viz. (setting out the same). This patent is dated the*9th of May
1786. It was issued to Messrs "Reed and Ford," and describes the lands thus: L e. "a certain tract or parcel of land
containing eight thousand acres, by survey bearing date the
23d day of December 1784, lying and being in the county of
Monongalia, near a large branch of French creek adjoining
lands of George Jackson on the south side, and bounded as
follows, to wit: beginning at a maple, and running thence
S. 10 E. one thousand poles to a poplar; S. 80 W. odle thousand two hundred and eighty poles to a W. oak; N. 10 E.
one thousand poles to two white oaks; N. So S. one thousand
two hundred and eighty poles to the beginning." The bill of
exceptions then states that the plaintiffs, for the purpose of
showing the identity of the land in controversy with the land
granted by said patent, gave in evidence a iopy of the plat and
certificate of survey on which the said'patent is founded, and
the plats and certificates of survey of the various other tracts
represented on said draft. After the plat and certificates had
been given in evidezlce, the copies of the entries on which the
said surveys were founded, were also given in evidence.
It appeared from the parol evidence introduced in order to
identify the land in controversy, that the same, at the date of
the patent under which the lessors claim, and at the date of
the said plat and certificate of survey on which the said patent
-is founded, was situate in the county of Harrison, and not in
the county of Monongalia, as stated in the patent and certificate of survey, but that the said land, at the date of the entry
on which the.survey was founded, was in the county of Monongalia, and became part of the county of Harrison by virtue
of the act of assembly establishing the county of Harrison.
The act of assembly is dated 8th May 1784, and took effect
the 20th of July of the same year.
The bill of exceptions further states, that evidence was relied
on, on the part of the defendants, for the purpose of proving
that the various marked lines represented by the said draft and
report of the surveyor, and claimed by the plaintiff to be lines

TANUARY TERM 1832.
[Boardman and others v. The Lessees of Reed and Ford, et al.]

of the land in controversy, and of various other tracts designated
on the said draft, were not actually run or marked as lines of
the land in controversy, and of the other tracts aforesaid; but
fiad been run and marked by Henry Fink, a deputy surveyor
of Monongalia, but who then resided in the county of Harrison, with a view of laying off the greater part of the country
represented on said draft into surveys of about one thousand
acres each; that he was employed and paid for that purpose, by
the persons for whom the said plats and certificates of survey
were afterwards made; that after said lines had been so marked
and run, the said plats and certificates were made out by protraction; not by the said Henry Fink, but by some other person
or persons, not authorised by law; that said plats and certificates of survey were never recorded in the surveyor's office of
Mlonongalia county, nor there filed, but were surreptitiously
returned to the register's office and patents obtained thereon.
It was contended on the part of the defendants, that the marked
lines represented on said draft, as lines of the lands in controversy, were not the lines thereof, and that the evidence in the
cause did not justify the jury in regarding them as such in preference to other marked lines represented on said draft. Evidence was given on the part of the plaintiffs, that the marked
lines aforesaid were actually run, and marked by said Fink as
lines of the said eight thousand acres, and of the various other
tracts represented upon said draft; and that plats and certificates
of survey were made out by him in conformity with the lines
so run and marked, and were byhini delivered to the agent of
the patentees, who gave them to the principal surveyor to be
recorded, who afterwards delivered the same to the patentees;
who returned them to the land office, on which plats aid cet-'
tificates, so returned, patents issued, and copies of which are
before reeited. It was further contended on the part of the defendant., that the land in controversy was not embraced within
the calls of'the patent under which the lessors claim; that the
natural objects, lines and.adjacent lands called for in said patent,
were not those represented on said draft, in designating therebpon the land in controversy, and that the marked lines represented on said draft as'the lines, of the land in controversy,
were, in fact, the lines, not of the plat and certificate of survey
on which the plaintiffs'- patent issued, but of other plats. and

SUPREME COURT.
[Boardman and others v. The Lessees of Reed and Foid, et al.]

certificates of survey; and that there are no calls in said patent
justifying.the locatihg said patent on the landgin controversy, as
contended for by the plaintiffs. For the purpose of identifying
the said land in controversy with that granted by the said patent,
parol and other evidence was introduced by the plaintiffs, in
order to establish several marked treestas corners of other tracts
represented on said draft-the boundaries of which tracts, it
was contended, tended to establish the identity of the lands in
controversy, with that granted by said patent. For the purpose of showing that one of said marked trees was not a corner
of one of qaid tracts; thai is to say, was not the corner on the
said draft represented by the letter A, as a corner of John
Young's four thousand acres: the counsel of the defendants
offered to introduce a witness to prove, that on the-trial of a
former action of ejeetmeilt, brought by the present lessors of
the plaintiff against some of the present defendants, to recover
the lands now in controversy, a witness, who is since dead,
swore that an ancient marked corner tree was found by hm
at said point A, of a different kind of timber from that called
for in Young's patent: but the evidence aforesaid was rejected
by thp court as inadmissible.
After the evidence had been closed, and the cause had been
argued before the jury, the plaintiffs' counsel moved the court
to give the following instructions to the jury, to wit: that the
grant aforesaid was a conplete appropriation of the land therein described, and vested in the patentee the title; and that any
defects in the preliminary steps by which it was acquired, were
cured by the emanation of the said patent. The said counsel
further moved.the court to instruct. the jury, that the said
grant is a title from its date, and is conclusive against all the
world, except those deriving title under a previous grant; and
further, that it does not affect the validity of the patent, if it
should appear that 'the entry on which the plaintiffs' survey
was made, contained other or diflbrent lands from that actually
surveyed.
After the above instructions had been moved'for by the
plaintiffs' counsel, the counsel for the defendants moved the
court to give to the jury the following instructions, to wit:
1. The.name of the county being mentioned in the plain"
tiffs' patent, as that in which the lands thereby granted were

JANUARY'TERM 1832.

333

[Boardman and others v. The Lessees of Reed and Ford, et al.]

situated, the plaintiff is not at liberty to prove by par-el that
the land was, in fact, in a different county.
2. As the patent states the lands to lie in the county of
Mlonongalia, the patentees and those claiming title under them,
can only recover lands in that county, and cannot, by force of
the other terms of description contained in the patent, recover
lands lying in the county of Harrison at the date of the pateit.
3. It appearing from the plat and certificate of survey on
which the patent is founded, that the survey thereby evidenced
was made in the county of Monongalia, and it appearing, from
the evidence introduced on the part of the plaintiffs to identify
the said land, that it was situated, at the time of the survey, in
the county of Harrison; the patent is void because the survey was made without lawful authority.
4. If various marked lines are found, corresponding with
the same calls in the patent, the mere coincidence of any one
of those marked lines with the calls of the patent, does not
establish that line as one of the lines called for in the patent.
5. If there are no calls in the patent, justifying the location
of the land granted, as contended for by the plaintiffs, they
cannot succeed in establishing their claim by relying upon extrinsic evidence.
6. Proof that the land claimed in this action was surveyed
for the patentees, by evidence contradicting the calls. of ihe
patent, does not establish the right of the patentees and of those
claiming under them to the lands claimed as aforesaid.
7. An entry in a county which is afterwards divided, does
not, after fle division, authorise a survey in the original county,
if the land falls into the new county.
The parties respectively objected to the instructions moved
for. The instructions moved for by the plaintiffs, were given
by the court. All those required by the defendants were refused, except the first, which was modified by the court and
delivered to the jury in the following terms: cif a land warrant be entered in the office of the surveyor of a particulai
county; and before the same be surveyed, the territory in which
the land locdted lies, shall be erected into a new county, and
the survey and grant afterwards affected, describe the lands to
be situated in the former county, the grant is not void, and the
plaintiffs may show by parol evidence extrinsic of the grant,

SUPREME COURT.
tlBoardman sa others v. The Lessees of Reed and Ford, et al.]

and not inconsistent with its other descriptive calls, that the
land lies within the new county." The exceptions were taken
to the rejection of the testimony offered respecting the corner
at A, and to the instructions given as moved for by the plaintiffs, and the rejection of those moved for the defendants.
The jury found a verdict for the plaintiffs, for the lands in
the declaration mentioned and -described in the plat and report
of Thomas Haymond, made in pursuance of an order of court
made in the cause. On this verdict, judgment was rendered
for the plaintiffs below, defendants in error; and this writ of
error is brought to reverse that judgment.
The case was argued by Mr Maxwell for the plaintiffs in
error, and by Mr Doddridge for the defendants.
Mr Maxwell declined discussing the first, second and third
instructions to the jury in the circuit court, which are stated
in the bill of exceptions; the points in the same having been
decided by this court, in the case of Stringer v. Young, 3
Peters, 320.
He contended that a patent for land cannot be more than
primafacie evidence'of title. Cited 4 Wheat. 77; 1 Munf. 134;
7 Wheat. 2,2; 3 Call, 499. In 11 Wheat. 181, 182 and 381, it
is decided that courts may inquire into the authority to make a
grant. Cited also, 4 Munf. 310, 141, 143 and 144; 1 Wash.
Virginia Reports, 203; 3 Cruise's Dig. 563. A patent is not
conclusive evidence of title. 2 Wash. Rep. 106; 6 Munf
234; 2 Dallas, 304.
Fraud in obtaining a patent may be inquired into at law;
and there was evidence of this nature in this case. 1 Hen.
and Munf. 303; 6 Bac. Ab. li1; 3 Coke's Rep. 77.
As to the fifth instruction, and 'to maintain the principles
claimed by the defendants in the circuit court, cited 1 Peters,
221; 5 Munf. 191; 4 Hen. and Munf. 137.
Upon the sixth instruction, the counsel for the plaintiffs in
error cited 6 Munf. 531; 3 Munf. 191; 4 Cranch, 62; 7 Cranch,
242. On the seventh instruction, he cited 5 Cranch, 92; 4
Wheat. 466.
The evidence rejected, should have been admitted by the
courL It was in relation to boundaries; and courts are very
liberal in admitting such evidence. 1 Peters, 496; 2 Wash.

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Boardman and others v. The Lessees of Reed and Ford, et at.]

C. C. Rep. 140; 1 Wash. C. C. Rep. 123; 1 Phil. Ev, 152,
1b9 and 200; 6 Binney, 59; Metcalf's Dig. 140; Beard's
Lessee v. Talbot, 1 Cook's Rep. 142; 5 Johns. 544.
To show the evidence as to the corner was admissible, cited
3 Peters, 321; 5 Munf. 191.
M~r Doddridge, for the defendants in error.
This case is substantially governed by that of Stringer and
others against Young's Lessee, 3 Peters, 320, in this court.
The court is referred to the argument in that case, and all the
authorities there cited; and more especially to the opinion of this
court sustaining, and more than sustaining that argument.
In support of the opinion then delivered, the defendants
rely upon a statute of Virginia, then unknown to the counsel,
which will be found in 12 Henning's St. at large, p. 81.
This statute, reciting the facts on whic4 its provisions are
founded, confirms all such surveys as the one 'now in question, whether made in Monongalia, Harrison, or Greenbriar
counties.
The exceptions taken on the trial of this cause, in the court
below, do not, in law, differ from those taken in the case decided
in 3 Peters, 320. There is, indeed, an attempt to vary them;
but this attempt has only succeeded as to form.
The court, in this case, on the request of the plaintiff's
counsel, instructed the jury, 1. That the grant was a complete
appropriation; and vested in the patentee a title; and any
defects in the preliminary steps by which it was acquired, are
cured by its emanation. 2. That such grant is a title from its
date, and is conclusive against all the world, except those
claiming title under a previous grant. And 3. That it does not
affect the validity of the grant, if it should appear that the land
surveyed was not the same that was entered.
The first of these instructions, contains a proposition
which was not only settled in the case of Stringer v. Young's
Lessee, and the cases there cited; but is one which has so long
been the settled rule of this court, and the courts of Virginia
and Kentucky, as to have become a rule of property, which
the judiciary are bound by, and cannot overturn.
As to the second and third numbers of the instructions, each
of them is a plain sequitur from the first and but an elabora-

SUPREME COURT.
[Boardman and others v. The Lessees of Reed and Ford, et al.]

tion of it, and certainly requires no elucidation. There is,
therefore, no error in the instructions asked by the plaintiffs
below.
As the counsel for the plaintiffs admit, that the decision of
this court4 in Stringer's Lessee v. Young, 3 Peters, 320, has
settled the law upon the questions presented by some of the
instructions, it is not considered necessary to discuss the matters
contained in them.
The sixth instruction required the judge to say, in substance,
that in the case then depending, the plaintiff could not identify
his lands as being in Harrison county, by testimony contradicting the calls of the patent. This is its plain meaning; and
what is the answer? The plaintiff may so identify his lands
by parol evidence, contradicting the grant as to the name of
the county, but not inconsistent with its other descriptive calls;
and that this evidence may, and must be extrinsic of the grant.
Seventh. The question here propounded was one foreign
to the matter in hearing; and was, therefore, an abstraction
which a judge, in the trial of an ejectment, was not bound to
answer. This question would be proper and important on the
trial of a cause to prevent the emanation of a grant. A direct
answer could not aid, but might mislead the jury. When the
rule of property was settled, that at law you cannot go behind
the grant; that a grant is a title from its date: when, whatever may have been, at the time, the legal character of the
survey in question, there was one express statute confirming
it,-of what avail could the inquiry be, whether, upon the division of a county in 1785, the surveyor could go on and execute surveys upon entries made with him before the division,
anterior to the year 1788, when the law passed, requiring such
entries to be certified to the surveyor of the new county?
An inquiry whethei the warrant was lodged with the surveyor, as his authority for making the entry, would have been
precisely as important. The answer given by the judge, that
a grant founded on such a survey was not void at law, jf the
party could identify the land; was all that the question wanted.
If the fourth instruction is to be considered by itself, and unexplained by the 6vidence set forth in the bill of exceptions, it
is either a mere abstract proposition, or.it is not. If the former,
the court was not bound to answer it: if the latter, the court

JANUARY TERM 1832.
(Boardman and others v. The Lessees of Reed and Ford, et al.]

was bound to overrule it; that is, was bound to refuse to give
it; so that in refusing to give it, the court committed no error.
The counsel did not ask the judge to say that in the-case put
by him, the coincidence described conclusively established the
line. Had that been the question, and had it been a proper question growing out of the case as it stood at the time when propounded, it is admitted that the answer should have been in
the negative. The conclusion of fact resulting from the coincidence described, would be but a presumption; which, however
strong, might be repelled by evidence. The record does not
show that any evidence was offered or intended to be offered,
to repel that presumption. The naked question, then, which
was propounded was this: when various lines are found
marked on the ground, corresponding with the lines called for
in the grant, does this coincidence in the case of one of those
lines, establish it? The answer shouldhave been in the affirmative, if given at all; and by refusing to give the instruction
asked in this particular, it was properly overruled.
If this view of the matter is not right, permission is asked
to run out the opposite position to its consequenccs. Suppose
the grant to call for an hundred lines, each of which it describes as commencing at a particular corner, and running a
given course and distance to another; and suppose that an hundred lines, marked and bounded as called for in the grant, are
found on the ground: then, if under such circumstances (the
other lines being called for, and found as described), the coincidence spoken of in the case of any one of them, does not establish that particulaf one; then no one of the lines is established.
After the death of the surveyor, and of all those who were
present at making a survey, its identity could never be established. The very diagram, however, intricate, and by however great a number of lines and corners contained, may be
found on the ground; and yet, this universal agreement will
not prove the whole survey; because, according to the exception, the presumption arising from it, if applied distributively
to each part, does not establish that part.
Fifth. This, too, is, if unconnected with the evidence set
out, an unqualified abstraction, and, as applicable to the case,
perfectly incomprehensible. By such questions as that proVOL. VI.-02 S

SUPREME COURT.
[Boardman and others v. The Lessees of Reed and Ford, et al.]

pounded, a judge might be compelled to outstrip, in his opinions, Blackstone's Commentaries, or any other book. There
could be no end to a trial. If a judge was bound to answer
this question as an abstract one, there is not a position or principle growing out of the Virginia land law of 1779, either as
practised on in Virginia or Kentucky, on which a judge might
not be called on to charge a jury. But if this question be considered with reference to the evidence stated in the bill of exceptions, a more useless, inoperative, and therefore inadmissible one, could not be suggested.
The principal evidence in the case was the report of the
surveyor, made under an order of court in the cause. By this
report it appeared, that the land in question was a tract of eight
thousand acres, being part of a large connexion of surveys containing together between fifty and one hundred thousand acres
of land, divided into several distinct surveys, and so patented;
the whole constituting one body of land, mostly owned by the
same individuals, though patented in different names.
This body of land, the surveyor's report shows to be contained in a general diagram, having one straight line for its
northern boundary, and another parallel thereto for its southern
boundary. The eastern boundary composed of two lines, varying a few degrees in their departure, and the western boundary of two lines, respectively parallel with the latter.
The report shows, that the survey in the name of John
Young, the subject of the case of Springer against Young's
Lessee, lies in the north-east corner of this connexion; and
that it calls for a white oak at the north-east corner.
The report further shows, that the surveyor found this corner standing, marked and cornered in the proper direction,
and of the proper age; that he found, in like manner, the whole
northern front marked, and its western termination bounded as
called for in the respective grants, with parts of the western
and southern, and all the eastern. boundaries, and'more than
half tie interior works. This being the official evidence in
the cause contained in the surveyor's report, shown on his
diagram and explained by his notes, what could have been the
real meaning and intention of the fifth instruction, moved by
the defendant's counsel ?
But there is yet another question raised by the bill of ex-

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Boardman and others v. The Lessees of Reed and Ford, et al.]

ceptions which deserves attention. On a former trial of an
ejeetment for the same lands, on the demise of the same lessors
and against some of the present defendants, a witness, since
dead, swore that at a corner at the point A, on the diagram,
being the north-east corner of the whole diagram and of
Young's survey, an ancient marked tree was found by him of
a different kind of timber from that called for in Young's
patent. This testimony was rejected by the court.
Young's patent calls for a white oak corner tree at A., from
which it calls for a course nearly west to the south-west cort
ner, and also for a course nearly 5outh to the south-east corner
of his survey, each of which produced constitutes a northern
and eastern boundary of the whole tract.
The surveyor reported that he found the white oak corner
at A standing, with the proper corner marks pointing west
and south, and of the proper date; the lines proceeding from
it also of the proper date, and terminating each at the corner
trees called for, and -these also properly marked and of the
proper date. The surveyor, therefore, found the corner at
A called for at A, the north-east corner of Young's patent,
and of the whole diagram.
With this explanation in view, let us look at the testimony
offered. This testimony was not that of a witness to prove a
boundary by general reputation, nor by particular reputation,
a general question of boundary-of parcel or not parcel, not
even the deceased witness's knowledge derivel from his personal presence at making it, or from the possession, occupation, use or declaratibns of others; but a separate, independent,
and wholly immaterial fact, viz. that at 'A,' and he does not
state when, nor whether by accident, private mark, or on the
execution of an official survey, he saw an ancient marked tree
of a different kind of timber. He does not state what that
timber was, nor how marked; whether as a corner to the survey in question, or to some other survey; or whether it may
not have been marked as a pointer to A.
It is to be remarked that this testimony is not offered to
contradict the report of the surveyor, that the white oak at A
is now standing, and therefore it is not offered for any legitimate purpose. It was not pretended that it could have any
tendency to explain or contradict the fact, that the white oak

SUPREME COURT.
[Boardziian and othets v. The Lessees of Reed and Ford, et al.]

corner at A is still existing, and the- object of our senses.
This testimony, therefore, could only tend to confound.
Besides all this, the rules by which testimony could be received, as laid down in Starlie on Evidence, 1 Vol. 279, 280,
would be set at nought.
The court is respectfully asked to say, whether it is not a
settled rule that the verdict rendered on the trial 4f one ejectment, cannot be received as evidence on the trial of another?
If it is not so settled as to the judgment?
We know this to be the case, and the reason determines the
present question. The lease, entry, and ouster are not the
same, and therefore what is done, found, or adjudged on one
trial can have no influence on another. All this is certain;
and if the verdict rendered in one ejeetment for the same land,
between the same lessor and the same defendants, sanctioned
by judgment, cannot be evidence in a second; how can a parcel
of the evidence inducing that verdict be received? But her6
the parties are not in fact the same.
Mr Justice M'LEA delivered the opinion of the Court.
.An action of ejeetment was brought by M'Call and others
against Boardman and others, in the district court of the
United States for the western district of Virginia, to recover
eight thousand acres of land. On the trial, certain exceptions
were taken to points adjudged by the court in behalf of the
plaintiffs, and against the defendants; and these points are now
brought before this court by writ of error.
The first exception" taken by the plaintiffs in error, is found
in the following statement in the bill of exceptions. "For
the purpose of showing that one of said marked trees was not
a corner of one of said tracts, that is to say, was not the corner
represented on the said draught by the letter A as a corner of
John Young's four thousand acres, the defendants' counsel
offered to introduce a witness to prove that on the trial of a
former action of ejeetment, brought by the present lessors of
the plaintiffs, against some of the defendants in the present
action, to recover the, land now in controversy; a witnesN examined on that trial, who is since dead, swore that an anciently
marked corner tree was found by him at said point A of a
different kind of timber from that called fdr in Young's patent:

JANUARY TERM 1&39.
[Boardman and others v. The Lessees of Reed and Ford, et al.)

but the evidence, as offered, was rejected by the court as inadmissible."
No part of the survey of Young is involved in the present
controversy; and with several other surveys, it was only laid
down by the surveyor, as by showing certain connexions, it
might conduce to identify the land claimed by the plaintiffs.
As the testimony of the witness referred to was not given
between the same parties, his statement, if admissible, coul&
only be received as hearsay.
That boundaries may be proved by hearsay testimony, is a
rule well settled; and the necessity or propriety of which is
not now questioned. Some difference of opinion may exist as
to the application of this rule, but there can be none as to its
legal force.
Land marks are frequently formed of perishable' rhaterials,
which pass away with the generation in which they were made.
By the improvement of the country, and from other causes,
they are often destroyed. It is therefore important, in many
cases, that hearsay or reputation should be received to establish ancient boundaries: but such testimony must be pertinent,
and material to the issue between the parties. If it have no
relation to the subject, or if it refer to a fact which is immaterial to the point of inquiry, it ought not to be adroitted.
In the present case, the plaintiffs supposed, that by exhibiting the plat of Young's survey in connexion with others, it
might tend, in some degree, to identify the land claimed by
them; and the corner designated on the plat by the letter A
is one of the corners of Young's survey. The official return
of the surveyor, in which the corner trees were specified and
the lines with which the corner is connected were laid down,
being before the jury, was relied on by the plaintiffs to establish this as the cornercalled for in Young's survey.
The hearsay testimony was offered, not to contradict any
fact stated in the return of the surveyor, but to provd.that on
a certain occasion, a person, in his lifetime, but deceased at.the
trial, had said that he found an anciently marked corner tree
at the point A of a different kind of timber from that called
for in Young's patent. This individual did not say that he
was acquainted with the lines claimed as Young's survey, nor
that thi§ was his corner.

SUPREME COURT.
[Boardman and others v. The Lesees of Reed and Ford, etal.]

If the fact as to this tree had been admitted, what effect
could it have had in the cause. It did not disprove a single
fact relied 6n to establish the corner. How near this tree
stood to the trees f5ind by the surveyor, does aot appear. It
may have been marked as pointing to the corr as is often
done by surveyors; or it may have been a corner to an adjoining or conflicting survey. The existence of this marked tree
may be accounted for in various ways; and its existence is in
no respect, so far as appears from the bill of exceptions, incompatible with the facts proved by the plaintiffs. How theh
can the fact be considered as material. It sheds no light on the
matter in controversy. Disconnected as the mere fact of a
marked tree not called for in Young's patent at the point A
seems to have been with the testimony in the cause; it is not
perceived how it could have tended to influence the verdict of
the jury. From the isolated fact, the jury could have drawn
no inferences against th - facts proved by the plaintiffs. There
was, threfore, no error in the rejection of the evidence
offered.
The court instructed thejury that the grant to the plaintiffs,
whichfwas given in evidence, was a complete appropriation of
the land therein described, and vested in the patentee the title;
and that any defects in the preliminary steps by which it was
acquired, were cured by the grant."
There can be no doubt of the correctness of this instruction.
This court have repeatedly decided, that at law, no facts behind the patent can be investigated. A court of law has concurrent jurisdiction with a court of equity in matters of fraud;
but the defects in an entry or survey cannot be taken advantage of at law. The.patent appropriates th& land, and gives
the legal title to the patentee. The district court said nothing
more than this; and it was justified in giving the instruction
by the uniform decisions of this court.
Titles acquired tinder sales for taxes, depend upon different
principles; and these are the titles-o which some of the authorities cited in the argument refer. Where an individual claim'
land under a tax sale, he,must show that the substantial requisites of the law have been observed; but this is never necessary whenthe claim rests on a patent from the commonwealth.
The preliminary steps may-be investigated in chancery, where

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Boardman and others v. The Lessees of Reed and Ford, et a|.1

an elder equitable right is isserted; but this cannot be done at
law.
At the reauest of the plaintiffs, the court also instructed the
jury, "that a grant is a title from its date, and conclusive
against all claimants whose rights are not derived under a previous grant to that of the lessors of the plaintiffs;" "and
that it does not affect the validity of said grant, if it appears
that the entry, on which the survey upon which the grant
purports to have been issued, contained other or different land
from that actually surveyed." This instruction involves the
same principle as the one which precedes it: If the grant
appropriate the land, it is only necessary for the person who
claims under it to identify the land called for.
Whether the entry was made in legal form, or the survey
was executed agreeably to the calls of the entry, is not a matter Which can be examined at law. Had the defendants relied
on the statute of limitations, this instruction would have been
erroneous; but no such defence was set up by them.
The defendants' counsel requested the court to give the following instructions:
1. "The name of the county being mentioned in the aforesaid patent, as that in which the land thereby granted was
situated, the plaintiffs are not at liberty to prove by parol that
the land lies in a different county."
2. "As the said patent states the land granted to lie- in the
county of Monongalia, the patentees, and those deriving title
from them, can only recover land in that county; and cannot,
by force of the other terms of description used in the patent,
recover land in the county of Harrison at the date of the
patent."
3. " It appearing from said plat and certificate of survey,
vupon wh;ch the patent is founded, that the survey was made
in the county of Monongalia, and it appearing from the evidence introduced on the part of the plaintiffs to identify the
land, that it did lie, at the time of the survey, in the county
of Harrison; the patent is void, because the survey was made
without authority."
4. "If various.marked lines are found corresponding with
the same call of the patent, the mere coincidence of any one

SUPREME COURT.
tBoardman and others v. TheLeaseas of Reed and Ford, et al.]

of -those marked lines with the call of- the patent, does not
establish that line, as a line called for in the patent"
The points raised by these instructions, having been substantially decided by this court in the case of Stringer's Lessee
v- Young, 3 Peters, 320, they are abandoned by the counsel
far th6 plaintiffs in error. In that case, these questions were
'fully investigated, and they need not be again examined.
The following instructions were also requested of the court
by the defendants' counsel, and refused.
5. "If there are no calls in the patent justifying the location of' the land granted, as contended for by the plaintiffs,
they rannot succeed in establishing their claim, by relyifig on
extrinsic evidence."
This instruction was refused, and this court think rightfully.
It asked the court below to presume against the facts in the
case, and to found an instruction upon the presumption thus
raised. The calls of the 'patent, and the official survey and
report of the surveyor were before the jury. By these it appears,'that corner trees were called for, and the land was stated
to lie near a large branch of French Creek, and, to adjoin lands
of George Jackson on the south. The course and distance from
corner to corner were also laid down on the plat, and the trees
called for as corners. Was the district court, then, bound, in
opposition to these facts, to instruct the jury; hypothetically,
that "if there were no calls in the said patent, justifying the
location of the land granted," &c. There were' such cAlls in
the patent, and it was -in evidence before the jury; any inatruction, thereforehypothecated on the absence of such calls,
could only tend to confuse or mislead the jury, and the court
committed no error in refusing it.
Where, from the evidence, the existence of certain facts
may be doubfful, either from want of certainty in the proof,
or by reason of conflictii evidence, a court may be called to
give instructions, in reference to a supposed state of facts. But
this a court is never bound to do, where he facts are clear
and uhcontradicted.
6. "Proof that the land claimed in this action was surveyed
for the patentees, by evidence contradicting the calls of the
patent, does not establish the right of the patentees, and of
those claiming under them."

JANUARY TERM 1832.
EBoardman and others v. The Lessees of Reed and Ford, et a].]

This instruction, taken as an abstract proposition, may be
true; and yet the court did not err in refusing to give it. The'
contradiction supposed was in the admission of proof that the
land covered by the patent is in the county of Harrison, when
the patent calls for it to lie in the county bf Monongalia.
That certain calls in a patent may be explained or controlled
by other calls wag settled, and in reference to this very point,
by this court, in the case of Stringer's Lessee v. Young, before referred to. If the point had not been so adjudged, it
would be too clear, on general principles, to admit of serious
doubt.
The entire description in the patent must be taken, and the
identity of the land ascertained, by a reasonable construction of
the language used. If there be a repugnant call, which by
the other calls in the patent clearly appears to have bein made
through mistake, that does not make void the patent. But if
the land granted be so inaccurately described as to render its
identity wholly uncertain, it is admitted that the grant is void.
This, however, was not the case of the patent under consideration. Its calls are specific, and, taking them all together, no
doubt can exist as to the land appropriated by it. The call
for the county may be explained, either by showing that it
was made through mistake, or that, under the circumstances
which existed at the time Qf the survey, it was not inconsistent
with the other calls of the phtent.
This would not be going behind the patent to establish it,
for its calls fully identify the laud granted; but to explain an
ambiguity or doubt which arises from a certain call in the
patent. This principle applies, under some circumstances, to
the construction of all written instruments. The meaning of
the parties must be ascertained by the tenor of the writing,
and not by looking at a part of it; and if a latent ambiguity
arise from the language used, it may be explained by parol.
7. "An entry in a countywhich is afterwardfdivided, does
not, after the division, authorise a survey in the original
county, if the land falls in the new county. -?
If this instruction laid down the law correctly, yet it does
not show that the plaintiffs below had no legal right to recover.
The poin ,ised
v
by it is behind the patent; and that, as before
stated, cannot be investigated in an action of eieetment. To
VOL. VI.-2 T

SUPREM39 COURT.
rBoardman and otbers v. The Lessees of Reed and Ford, et a].]

entitle the plaintiffs to a recovery in the action of ejectment,
they had nothing to do but to identify the land called for in
their patent. This being done, it is not competent for the
defendants, by way of invalidating the plaintiffs' legal right, to
.show irregularity in the entry or survey on which the patent
was issued. In the case of Stringer's Lessee v. Young, the
entry and survey were made as stated in this instruction, and
yet this court sustained the patent.
The court below, it seems, did instruct the jury, that "if a
land.warrant be entered in the office of the surveyor of a particular county, and, before the same be surveyed, the territory
in which the land located lies shall be erected into a new
county, and the survey and grant afterwards effected describe
the lands to be situated in the former county, the grant is not
void; and the plaintiffs may show by parol evidence, extrinsic
of the grant, and not inconsistent with' its other descriptive
calls, that the land lies within the new county."
This instruction is sustained substantially in the principles
laid down by this court, in the case above cited. There are,
indeed, very few points raised in this cause, which were not
,decided in the case of Stringer's Lessee v. Young. The questions in that cause arose under Young's patent; which was
issued under precisely the same circumstances as the one under
which the plaintiffs claim.
But if this point had not been settled in the case referred to,
all doubt-would be removed by a reference to an act of the
Virginia legislature, passed in 1785, entitled an "act concerning the location of certain warrants upon waste and unappropriated lands in,
the counties of Greenbriar, Harrison and Monongalia."2
In this act it is provided, by the third *section, "that all
surveys heretofore made in either of the aforesaid counties,
by virtue of the first location, shall be good and valid; any act
to the contrary notwithstanding."
In the bill of exceptions it is stated, that evidence was
relied on by the defendants, to "4prove that the various marked'
lines, represented by the draught and report of the surveyor,
and claimed-bythe plaintiffs to belines of the land in controversy,
and of various other tracts designated on the draughtwere not
actually run or marked as lines of the land in controversy,iand

JANUARY TERM 1832.
'Botrdmtnand others v. The Lessees of Reed and Ford, et a].]

of the other tracts laid down, but had been run and marked
by Henry Fink, a deputy surveyor of Monongalia, who then
resided in the county of Harrison, with the view of laying off
the greater part of the country represented on the plat int6
surveys of about one thousand acres each; and that he was employed and paid for that purpose by the persons for whom the
said plats and certificates of survey were afterwards made;
that after the said lines had been so marked and seen, the said
plats and certificates were made out by protraction; not 'by
the said Henry Fink, but by some other person or persons
not authorised by law; that said plats and certificates of suitvey
were never recorded in the surveyor's office of Monongalia
county, nor there filed; but were surreptitiously returned to
the register's office and patents obtained thereon."
It does not appear from the bill of exceptions, that any evidence was offered by the defendants which was rejected by the
court, to sustain this allegation.of fraud. :Nor does it appear
that any specific instructions were asked of the court on any
evidence before the jury, conducing to prove the facts here
alleged. The statement can: only be understood to refer to the
course of argument which the defendants' counsel in the court
below deemed it their duty to pursue, before the jury; and
which forms no part of the case now before the court. * Other
parts of the bill of exceptions contain a statement of various
grounds taken in the defence below; but as no instructions to
the jury were requested on the points thus made, they form
no ground for a revision of the proceedings by a writ of error.
On a careful consideration of the points made in'the bill of
exceptions, this court are opinion that there is no error in the
judgment of the court below; and that the judgment must,
therefore, be affirmed, with costs.

