JANUARY TERM 1832.

RICHARD AL SCOTT, PLAINTIFF iN ERROR V. EZRA LUNT'S
ADMINISTRATOR, DEFENDANT IN ERROR.
The pLdntiff claimed in his declaration the sum of one thousand two hundred
and lrty-one dollars, and laid his damages at ore thousand dollars: a general
verdict having becn given against him, the matter in dispute is the sum he
claini-, ad quod damnum. The court cannot judicially take notice, that by
computation it may possibly be made out as matter of inference from the
plaintiff's declaration, that the claim may be less than one thousand dollars;
much less can it take such notice in a case where the plaintiff might be allowed
interest by a jury, sa as tp swell the claim beyond one thousand dollars.

ERROR to the circuit court of the United States for the
county of Alexandria.
The plaintiff in error brought an action of covenant on a
(Iced for certain premises in the city of Alexandria, by which
the same were granted to Ezra Lunt, the defendant's intestate,
reserving a yearly rent charge of seventy-three dollars. The
declaration stated that the plaintiff became entitled to demand
and have of the said Ezra, in his lifetime, and of the defendant
after his death, the said annual rent of seventy-three dollars;

"and the said plaintiff, in fact saith, that after the death of the
said Ezra there became due and owing to him, from the defendant, as administrator aforesaid, for the rents aforesaid, from
the 8th day of August 1812 to the Sih day of August 1824,
the sum of twelve hundred and forty-one dollars, which said
sum of twelve hundred and forty-one dollars the said defendant, since the death of the said Ezra Lunt, has altogether failed
to pay to the said plaintiff; and so the said plaintiff saith, that
the said defendant, as administrator aforesaid, bath broken the
covenant aforesaid, whereby the said plaintiff bath been injured, and bath sustained damage to the value of one thousand
dollars, and thereof he brings suit."
The defendants pleaded a re-entry on the premises for nonpayment of the rent, by virtue- of the condition of re-entry
contained in the deed before the day specified in the declaration for the'payment of the same; and that the plaintiff held
and occupied the premises vested in him by the re-entry.
Upon this plea issue was joined, and a verdict and judgment
were rendered in favour of the defendant.

SUPREME COURT.
[Scott v. Lunt's Adminstrator.]

Bills of exceptions to the ruling of the court on matters of
law were tendered by the plaintff, and this writ of error was
prosecuted by him.
Mr Jones, for the defendant, moved to dismiss the case for
want of jurisdiction. The declaration shows that the plaintiff's
claim does not amount to the sum of one thousand dollars.
The action is for a rent charge of seventy-three dollars per
annum, which is alleged to be due from the 8th day of August
1812 td the 8th day of August 1824, a period of twelve years;
and therefore amounting to no more than the sum of nine hundred and sixteen dollars. The act of congress authorising
writs of error to this court in suits instituted in the district of
Columbia, requires that the value of the property, or the sum
in controversy, shall be one thousand dollars. By the plaintiff's own showing, there is no jurisdiction. The assertion
that the ground rent amounts to twelve hundred and forty-one
dollars, is contradicted by the statement that the rent is in
arrear for twelve years, and no more, from 8th August 1812
to 8th August 1824.
No interest is allowed on a rent charge in arrear.
Where the declaration 4oes not show a prima facie claim to
an amount which will give jurisdiction, it is admitted that this
may be proved aliunde. But here there is nothing more than
the pleadings; and they establish that the actual claim is less
than one thousand dollars.
Mr Swann, for the plaintiff in error, argued, that the court
will take, as the rule for jurisdiction, the amount stated in the
declaration. 2 Dallas, 352; 5 Cranch,.13. It is there represented as twelve hundred and forty-one dollars, and the damages are claimed to be one thousand dollars. The defendant
sets up the defence of a re-entry; and thus the whole of the
right of the plaintiff to the rent charge of seventy-three dollars
per annum was in issue. It is this right which is now before
this court on the writ of error, and its value far exceeds one
thousand dollars.
if the court will look at the amount of the rent in arrear,
and add the interest upon the same, there is a sum much greater
than one thousand dollars claimed. The recovery here can

JANUARY TERM 1S32.
[Scott v. Lunt's Administrator.]

only be from the administrator of the amount of assets-but if
the court dismiss the writ of error, the plaintiff cannot go
against the land for the residue of the arrears.
Mr Chief Justice MARISHA.L delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Upon an inspection of the record, it appears that the plaintiff claims in his declaration the sum of twelve hundftec and
forty-one dollars as remaining due to him; and he has laid the
ad damnum at one thousand dollars. Under such circumstances,
a general verdict having been given against him, the matter in
dispute is, in our 'opinion, the sum which he claims in the ad
damnum. The court cannot judicially take notice, that by computation it may possibly be made out as matter of inference
from the declaration, Ihat the plaintiff's claim, in reality, must
be less than one thousand dollars: mueh less can it take such
notice in a case where the plaintiff might be allowed interest on
his claim by the jury, so ai to swell his claim beyond one
thousand dollars. The motion to dismiss for want ofjurisdictiun is overruled.

