JANUARY TERM 1832.

DUNCAN M'ARTHUR, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR V. WESLEY S.

PORTEIR, DEFENDANT IN ERROR.
In an ejectment for a tract of land, the declaration described the same by specific metes and bounds. The jury found a verdict for the plaintiff, stating the
defendant to be guilty of the trespass in the declaration mentioned,rand "that
the plaintiff do recover of the defendant the land described as follows;" describing the same, and referring to a diagram and report of a survey of the land
in controversy, which was in evidence. This verdict was for but a part of the
land claimed in the plaintiff's declaration. The Eircuit court, on motion of,the
plaintiff's counsel, instructed the jury to find a general verdict, saying that the
plaintiff could take possession at his peril; and the jury found according to the
instructions of the court. Held, that the jury were right in their original verdict; and the instruction of the court, that they should find a general verdict,
the plaintiff having established a title only to part of the land,'was erroneous.
The real question before the court is, whether the defendant, upon proof of a
title to part of the premises described in the declaration of ejectment, is bylaw
pntitled to a general verdict for the whole of the premises sued for. That the
action of ejectment is a fictitious action, and is moulded by courts to subserve
the purposes of justice in a manner peculiar to itself, is admitted; but the professed object is to try the titles of the parties, and the jury are bound to pass
upon those titles, as they are established by the evidence before them. They
therefore do no more than their duty when they find a verdict for the plaintiff
according to the extent and limits of his title as it is proved by the evidence.
It is equally their right so to do, since it is comprehended in the issue submitted to their decision. If, therefore, they find by the verdict according to the
truth of the case that the plaintiff has title to part only of the premises in the
declaration, and describe it by metes and bounds, and that so far the defendant
is guilty; and as to the residue, find the issue for the defendants; such a verdict, in point of law, seems to be unexceptionable; and if so, the judgment
following the verdict ought to conform to it: and if it should be a general judgment for the whole premises demanded in the declaration, it would be erroneous. Such,upon principle, and the analogies of the common law, would be
the result, and the authorities clearly establish the doctrine; and it is confirmed
as a matter of practice by the best text writers on the subject.

ERROR to the circuit court of the United States for the district of Ohio.
The case agreed by the counsel for the plaintifs in error and
for the defendants in this court, was as follows:
" This was an action of ejectment which came up on a writ
of error to the circuit court of the United States for the district
of Ohio'. One of the questions in dispute on the trial of the
cause below, was the boundary line between the lands of the
plaintiff and defendant. Surveys had been made of the pre-

SUPREME COURT.
[M'Arthur v. Pbrter.]

mises in dispute according to the pretensions of each party.
These surveys, with the explanatory depositions taken on the
ground, were placed on file and used in evidence on the trial.
The jury, instead of a verdict according to the claim of either
party, found an intermediate line. Their verdict was in these
words, viz.
We the jury, do find the defendant guilty of the trespass
in the plaintiff's declaration mentioned, and do assess the plaintiff's damages to one cent; and that the plaintiff do reaover of
the.defendant the land described as follows, viz. Beginning
at tfie stone planted in Spencer's orchard, designated on
Looker's Map (referring to the survey given in evidence), by
the letter B., thence running in a north-westerly direction to
a point in Dock's line, onehundred and twenty-four poles eastwardly on Dock's line, from the point marked D. on Looker's
Map, a hickory and dog wood; thence westwardly with Dock's
line one hundred and twenty-four poles, to the hickory and
dog wood aforesaid; thence running in a south-westwardly
direction with Taliaferro's iine to the place of beginning."
"By reference to Looker's map or survey on file, the boundary here marked out by the jury was capable of being reduced
to certainty. The counsel for the plaintiff below objected
against the verdict being recorded, and moved the court to
instruct the jury to find a general verlict of guilty for the
plaintiff. The court so instructed the jury, saying "the plaintiff would take possession at his peril." The jury accordingly
found a general verdict for plaintiff. To this instruction and
opinion of the court the defendant excepted, and brought this
writ of error to reverse the judgment."
The case was argued by Mr Vinton and Mr Doddridge, for
the plaintiff in error; and by Mr Ewing, for the defendant.
Mr Vinton, for the plaintiff.
The plaintiff below having title, in the opinion of the jury,
to a part of the land claimed by him, it is admitted they had
a right, if they chose , to find in his favour a general verdict of
guilty. And in that case he would have taken possession at
his peril of more than he was actually entitled to possess. But
the jury, instead of a general verdict, thought proper to find a
verdictfor so much oniy as the plaintiff had title to.

JANUARY TERM 1S32.
[M'Arthur v. Porter.]

Had they a right so to find? and if they had, is it noLplain
the court had no power to deny its exercise?
Where a verdict is rendered 'for part only of the premises
demanded, the part found must be described with certainty:
but numerous authorities show that the jury may find a part.
Gilbert's Law of Ejectment, 200; Pemble v. Stearne, Raymond's Rep. 165; 1 Institute, 227; Cro. Jac. 113; Siderfin,
232; Cro. Jac. 631; 6 Munford, 25; 1 Mun. 162; 17 Serg.
and Rawle, 431; 16 Serg. and Rawle, 245; 17 Serg. and
Rawle, 393.
Gilbert, in his Law of, Ejectment (pig. 61), says, "if an
ejectment is brought for an acre of land, by metes and bounds,
and the jury find half an acre, without sjgecifying.metes and
bounds, tle verdict is bad; because the sheriff cannot deliver
possession." The authorities cited above clearly establish the
right of the jury to find apartof the premises claimed. Itis,
emphatically, the duty of the jury t-find facts: but by the interposition of the court, in this case, they were restrained, and
that office was virtually taken out of their hands.
A leading object of judicial investigation is to reduce disputed and uncertain facts to certainty. But in a question of
disputed boundary, it is obvious that a general verdict, without describing the dividing line, or other specification, leaves
the parties precisely where they began, and establishes nothing.
And if in such a case the plaintiff has a right to demand at the.
hands of the jury a general verdict, it is clearly not practica-"
ble to try a question of boundary by the action of ejectment.
A position which, it is presumed, no one will attempt to maintain.
The court, in their instruction to the jury, appear to have
fallen into an error in the application of the rule of law to be
met with in the books, "that the plaintiff will take possession
at his peril." On examination it will be found it is-usdd for
a different purpose than that to which it is to be applied in this
case. It had its origin in this way.
Anciently, in the action of ejectment, great particularity of
description in the declarationwas required. See Cottingham
v. King, 1 Burr. 629. Many judgments were reversed for want
of a specific description in the declaration of the premises demanded. But when the action underwent the modifications.

SUPREME COURT.
tM'Arthur v. Porter.1

that placed it on its present footing, it was held that a generat
description of the premises was sufficient. But to prevent thc
plaintiff from taking advantage of the uncertainty of his declaration, by going into possession of more land than he was entitled to; the doctrine was established, "that he took possession
at his peril of more than he had actually recovered."
In all the cases where the courts have holden this language,
it will be found that exception had been taken to the sufficioncy of the description of the premises in the declaration,
after a general verdict. The above cited case of Cottingham
v. King is a leading case in point. This principle, therefore,
is resorted to, to heal or cure Uie.uncertainty of the declaration, and is not applicable to the verdict. If a verdict is uncertain, the judgment is not rendered upon it and the rule applied
to help out the verdict; but the verdict is set aside, or judgment reversed, and a venire de novo awarded. Clay v. White,
I Mun. 162; Gregory v. Jackson, 6 Mun. 25; Martin v.
Martin, 17 Serg. and Rawle, 431; 16 Serg. and Rawle, 245:
and see also the extract above from Gilbert's Ejectment.
In the case of Gregory v. Jackson,. which was an ejectment
for one thousand acres of land, and a verdict for four hundred, part of the premises, without designating the boundaries-error was brought after judgment-the doctrine now
contended for, was strongly insisted upon in argument, and
overruled :-the judgment was reversed and a venire awarded.
There are many instances to be found of verdicts similar to that
tendered by the jury in this case. The verdict in the case of
Green v. Watrous, above cited, is of that description.
In the case of Hopkins v. Myers, 1 Constitutional Court's
Rep. 56 (South Carolina), the similitude of the verdict, even
in its form, to the one in the present case, is very striking.
The verdict in that case was sustained, and is in these words,
viz. "We find for the plaintiff, with ohe dollar damages. We
also find that the old hedge row beginning at the river, and
a line running along the sane to its termination; and a l4ie to
be drawn from thence, so that it will intersect the course of
an old line, surveyed by A. B. Shark in the year 1813, in the
centre of the gut, next to the river, and thence along said line
until its intersection with the tract of land said to belong to
Railford, is the dividing line between the parties."

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[M'Arthur v. Porter.]

The practice, as stated by Adams in his Treatise on the Acnon of Ejectment, and relied upon by the defendant in error,
will not sanction his interference with the verdict. He says
(page 297), ",if plaintiff obtain a verdict for the whole premises demanded, the entry of the judgment is, that he recover
his term in the premises aforesaid, or that he recoverpossession of his term aforesaid. And this form is also used where
a moiety or other part of the-premises is recovered; as for example, when the plaintiff declares for forty acres in A. and
recovers only twenty. And it is at the lessor's peril, that he
take out execution for no more than he has recovered title to."
This authority does not show that, in the example put of a
verdict for twenty acres, such finding of the jury may be disregarded or set aside, and a general verdict directed to be
found in its stead; but it proves that upon such a vprdict the
plaintiff' may take a judgment to recover his term in the premises; and since he is restrained from taking out execution for
more than was found by the verdict, it is quite immaterial
whether the judgment, in its form, is general or special. The
verdict in either case is the guide to the sheriff to direct him
how to deliver possession, Gilbert's Evidence, 109; Conner
v. West, 5 Burr. 2673; Watrous v. Green, 17 Serg. and
Rawle, 393; Gilbert's Ejectment, 61; Cro. Jac. 631.
If, in the present case, the plaintiff below had permitted the
verdict tendered by the jury to be recorded, and had taken a
judgment for his term generally, it would have been liable to
no exception. The defendant would have had no cause of
complaint, since execution could issue for the part only found
by the jury and described in their verdict.
But now he has cause to complain, since there is no restriction upon the plaintiff in taking out execution for, and going
into possession of all he ever demanded.
Mr Ewing, for the defendant in error, contended, that it
was the duty of the jury to find a general verdict: unless with
the consent of the parties a special verdict could not be given.
The plaintiff in an ejectment who recovers, takes possession
under the direction of the court, and this he does at his peril.
A reference to the notes of the judges who presided at the trial
VOL. VI.--2 B

SUPREME COURT.
[M'Arthur v. Porter.]

will fhow the extent of the recovery, and regulate the proceedings of the party.
TAe only question in the case is, whether the judgment
entered is erroneous, or wh6ther a general judgment should
havie been entered on the finding of the jury. Cited-Adams
on Ejectment, 297; 2 Bibb's Reports, 236.
Mr Doddridge, in reply, argaed, that there was a material
difference between an action of ejectment to try title, and that
in which the whole question was one of boundary. The case
cited by the counsel for the defendant in error, from Bibb's
Reports, was of the former character, and was therefore not applicable to the question before the court. That case is also at
variance with all the cases referred to in the opening arbument
for the plaintiff in error.. The distinction is well known in
England, and it is one which must necessarily arise under the
Virginia land system. This system involves, in most cases,
questions of boundary.
The action of ejectment is a creation ox oatxrts, and is to
be moulded to meet the justice of the case. The practice under
it in Virginia, is different from that of England.
The order of survey is a material proceeding in Virginia in
the action of ejeetment; and it is made an brder in the cause.
It is analogous to a view in England; and the survey so made
becomes a part of the issue, presenting the very question which
is to be decided by the jury. The witnesses are called by the
surveyor before him, and he locates the bounds of the land.
The order of survey and return becomes a part of the record,
and the verdict of the jury is usually entered on the back of
the survey, for the.express purpose of showing what has been
recovered.
Mr Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a writ of error to the circuit court for the district of
Ohio. The original action was an ejectment brought by the
defendant in error against the plaintiff in error, and the declaration (which contains several counts) describes the land demanded by specific metes and bounds. At the trial the jury
found a verdict in the following terms. "9We, the jury, find
the defendant guilty of the trespass in the plaintiff's declaration

JANUARY TERM 1s32,
[M'Aithur v Porter.]

mentioned, and do assess the plaintiff's danages to one-4ent,
and that the plaintiff do resuver of the defendant the land described as follows, viz. beginning at the stone plantee in Spen
cer's orchard designated on Looker's Map (referring to the
diagram and report of the survey in court) by the letter B.;
thence running in a north-westerly direction to a point in
Dock's line, one hundred and twenty-four poles; eastwardly on
Dock's line from the point marked D. on Looker's Map, a
hickory and dog wood, thence westwardly with Dock's line
one hundred and twenty-four poles, to the hickory and dog
wood aforesaid; thence running in a sbuth-westerly directioni
to Taliaferro's line to the place of beginning." The counsel
for the plaintiff then moved the court to 'instruct the jury to
find'a general verdict; and thereupon the court did instruct.the
jury to find a general verdict, saying that the plaintiff would
take possession at his peril; which general verdict was found
by the jury accordingly: and to this instruction the defendther exceptions were taken in the progress of
ant excepted.
the trial, but they have been abandoned at the argnment; and
the only question presented for our consideration is upon the
instruction already mentioned.
From the survey ordered by the court, as well as from the
other proceedings and evidence in the cause, it abundantly appears, that the case was one of conflicting titles, and the controversy was principally as to boundaries. The verdict of the
jury, as originally found, was for part only of the land sued fer
in the ejectment; fixing upon an intermediate line.of-boundary,
different from that asserted by either party. It was, therefore, equivalent to a verdict finding a part of the tract of land
-sued for in favour of the plaintiff, and the residue in favour of
the defendant. In other words, that the defendant was guilty
of the ejectment as to'a part, and not guilty as to the 'residue
of the land described in the declaration.
The real question, then, before the court is, whether the
plaintiff, upon the proof of a title to a part of the premises sued
for in the ejectment, is by law entitled to a general verdict for
the Whole of the premises sued for. That the action of ejectment is a fictitious action, and is moulded by courts to subserve
the purposes of justice in a manner peculiar to itself, is admitted, but its professed object is to try the titles of the parties-

SUPREME COURT.
[M'Arthur v. Poiter.]

and the jury are bound to pass upon those titles, as they are
established by the evidence before them. They, therefore,
do no more than their duty when they find a. verdict for the
plaintiff, according to the extent and limits of his title, as it is
proved by the evidence. It is equally their right so to do,
since it is comprehended in the issue submitted to their decision. If, therefore, they find by their verdict according to the
truth of the case, that the plaintiff has title to part only of the
premises in the declaration, and describe it by metes and
bounds, and that so ar the defendant is guilty; and as to the
,residue, find the issue for the defendant; such a verdict, in
point of law, would seem to be unexceptionable; and if so, the
judgment following that verdict ought to conform to it; and if
it should be a general judgment for the whole premises demanded in the declaration, it would be erroneous. Such, upon
principle, and the analogies of the common law, would be the
just result; and the authorities clearly establish the doctrine,
and it is confirmed as a matter of practice by the best text
writers on the subject. Adams on Ejectment, 294. Runnington on Ejectment, 432. Bac. Abridg. Ejectment, F. G.
Thus in Mason v. Fox, Cro. Jac. 631, where in an ejectment
the jury found the defefidant guilty as to part of the premises
in the declaration, and not guilty as to the residue; all the
judges were of opinion that the judgment ought to conform to
the verdict, for it was consequent upon the verdict; but that
an entry of a general or variant judgment was not a misprision
of the clerk, and amendable even after error brought. In
Denn d. Burgess v. Purvis, 1 Burr. 326, the plaintiff sued for
a moiety of a certain parcel of land, and had a verdict for one
third part of the premises; and the question was, whether in
such a case the plaintiff could recover for a less undivided part
than he sued for. The court held that she could, and that she
was entitled to a judgment for, the one third. Lord Mansfield
on that occasion said, the rule undoubtedly is, that the plaintiff
must recover according to his title. Here she demanded half,
and she appears entitled to a third, and so much she ought to
recover; so, if you demand forty acres, you may certainly recover twenty acres; every day's experience proves this. Aad,
he added, that the case of Abbott v. Skinner, I Sid. Rep. 229,
was directly in point. In 2 Roll. Abridg. tit. Trial, p. 704,

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[M'Aithur v. Porter.]

pl. 22, there is a case where an ejectment was brought of a
messuage, and it appeared in evidence and was so found by the
verdict that only a small part of the messuage was built by incroachment on the lessor's land, not the residue. And the
plaintiff had judgment for the parcel accordingly. Taylor v.
Wilbore, Cro. Eliz. 768. These authorities (and the American authorities cited at the bar are to the same effect) demonstrate that the plaintiff is entitled to recover only according to
his title; and that if he shows a title to part only, he is entitled
to have a verdict and judgment for that part, and no more. If
this be the true state of the law, then the jury were right in
their original verdict; and the instruction of the court, that they
should find a general verdict (the plaintiff having established
a title to only a part of the land) was erroneous.
But it has been argued, that such a general verdict, under
such circumstances, is a matter of mere practice, and involves
no inconvenience or repugnancy to the general principles of
law, because the plaintiff must still at his peril take possession
under his executor upon a general judgment on such verdict,
according to his title. That the whole proceedings in ejectment are founded in fictions, and the court will, in a summary
manner, restrain" the plaintiff if he takes possession for more
than his title, so that no injustice can be done to the defendant.
And certain authorities have been relied .upon in support of
these suggestions. But in what manner can the court, in a
case circumstanced like the present, interfere with the plaintiff
in taking possession. If the special finding of the jury in the
case of interfering titles on a question of boundary, which
may) and indeed usually does involve a comparison of the conlicting testimony of witnesses and other parol evidence, is to
De set aside and.disregarded, there is nothing upon the record
to guide the plaintiff in regard to the extent of his title in
taking possession; and he must be.at liberty to take possession
.according to his own view of the extent of his title: nor can
the court have, in such a case, any certain means to interfere,
upon a summary application to redress any supposed excess of
the plaintiff, for that would be in matters of fact to usurp the
functions of a jury, and to re-try the cause upon its facts and
merits, without their assistance. It might be different in a
case where the plaintiff's title, as he proved it at the trial, was

SUPREME COURT.
[M'Arlhur v. Poter.]

upon his own showing, le.s than the lands of which he had
taken possession; for that would involve no examination or
decision upon conflicting matters of fact; and after all, what
could this be, but an attempt, indirectly, to do that justice between the parties, which the original verdict sought to do
directly, and in a manner entirely conformable to law?
As to the authorities relied on to sustain the practice of entering a general verdict, they do not in our opinion justify the
doctrine for which they are cited. The language cited from
Adams on Ejectment (p. 297) has been misunderstood. It
does not mean that where the plaintiff obtains a verdict for a
part of the premises only, he is entitled to a general judgment
for the whole premises sued for; for that would be inconsistent
with what the author has said in a preceding page (p. 294);(a)
but only that the same form of entering the judgment for the
parcel recovered is adopted as in cases where the whole is recovered; as for example, if the plaintiff declares for forty acres
in it, and he recovers on y twenty acres, his judgment must
be for the twenty acres; and it is at his peril that he takes out
execution for no more than he has proved title to, since otherwise his execution would be bad, as not conforming to the
judgment. (b) The case of Cottingham v. King, 1 Burr, 621,
was the case of a writ of error from Ireland, and the only
question was whether the declaration, which was for five
thousand messuages, five thousand cottages, &c. a quarter of
land, &c. &c. was not void for uncertainty; a general verdict
having been given for the plaintiff. One qbjection was, that
the declaration was too uncertain to enable the sheriff to deliver possession, to which Lord -Mansfield replied, that in this
fictitious action the plaintiff is to show the sheriff, and is tb
take possession at his peril of only what he was entitled to.
If he takes more than he has recovered and shown title to, the
court will, in a summary way, set it right. Now it is plain
that his lordship was here addressing himself to a case where
the, declaration was general, and the verdict was general for
the whole premises; and not to a case where there was a verdict for a specified parcel -only of the p'emises. In the case
(a) See also Adams's Eject.'App-No. 34, where the form of a judgment for a
parcel is given, and a judgment for the defendant for the residue.
(b) See Far. and Denn. 1 Burr. Rep. 362, 366.

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[M'Artbur v. Porter.]

put, the judgment would be general, and the execution would
conform to it; and therefore if the plaintiff took possession beyond his own title established at the trial, the court might
interfere in a summary manner to prevent such a general recovery from working injustice. The same doctrine was afterwards held in Conner v. West, 5 Burr, 267b. But neither of
these cases has any tendency to show, that upon proof of title
to part of the premises the plaintiff is entitled, as a matter of
right, to a general verdict and judgment for the whole premises in the declaration. Such a point was never argued, nor
considered by the court.
The case of Knouns v. Lawall, lessee of Grayson, cited, from
2 Bibb, 236, approaches nearer to the present-without meaning to express any opinion as to the correctness or incorrectness of the decision in that case, it is sufficient to say, that it
is distinguishable from the case now before us. In that case,
the court held the special finding of the jury void for uncertainty, and rejected' itras surplusage; and then considered the
finding of the jury as a general verdict for the plaintiff, upon
which he might properly have a general judgment. No such
objection occurs against the special finding in the present case,
ir d we may decide it without touching the authority of that
decision.
Upon the whole, our opinion is, that the instruction oE the
circuit court was erroneous. It was not a mere matter of prac.
tice, but one involving essential rights of the defendant.
The judgment is therefore reversed, and the cause is tQ be
remanded to the circuit court witii directions to award a venire
facias de novo.

