SUPREME COURT.

THOMAS KIRKAN, JUNIOR, PLA1NTIFF V. JOHN W. HAMILTON AND OTHERS, DEFENDANTS.

The statute of limitations of North Carolina, passed in 1715, in force in Tennessee, bars the particular actions which it recites, and no others. It does not
bar actions of debt generally, but those only which are brought for arrearages
of rent.
In an action of debt on a promissory note, instituted in the circuit court of Tennessee, the defendant pleaded the statute of limitations of North Carolina of
1715, in force in Tennessee. Held, that the statute did not extend to the action, and that the plaintiff was not barred.
By the acts of the legislature of North Carolina, in force in Tennessee, the indorser of a promissory note is entitled to sue in his own name, as on inland
bills of exchapge in England, and he may therefore bilng an action of debt on
a promissory note held by him.
The rase ofRaburg et al. v. Peyton, 2 Wheaton, 385, cited and confirmed.
H. and D,, citizens of Tennessee, gave their promissory note to T. R, & Co.,,
also citizens of Tennessee, payable in fifteen months. Before the note became
due, T. R. & Co. removed to and became citizens of Alabama, and also before the day appointed for the payment of the note, indorsed it to K. a citizen
of Alabama; and in the declaration on the note, the plaintiff averred that T.
R. & Co. werq citizens of Alabama. Held, that the circuit court of Tennessee had jurisdiction ofthe suit, under the eleventh section of the act of1789.
The payees of the note having, before the note became due, become citizens
of Alabama, could have prosecuted a suit ou the note in the circuiL court of
Tennessee if no assignment had been made.

THIS case came before the court on a certificate of division
in opinion of the judges of the circuit court of the United
States for the district of West Tennessee.
In the circuit court of the United States for the district of
West Tennessee, Thomas Kirkman, Junior, a citizen of Alabama, instituted, in April 1823, an action of debt, against John
W. Hamilton and Thomas Donoho, citizens of Tennessee, upon
a promissory note drawn by the defendants under the firm of
Hamilton and Donoho in West Tennessee, on the 22d of September 1818, for the sum of three thousand dollars, payable
fifteen months after date to Thomas Ramsey and Company or
order, and Thomas Ramsey and Company having become citizens of Alabama, and the note being unpaid, indorsed the same
to the plaintiff, Thomas Kirkman, Junior.
To this declaration, the defendants pleaded: First, the statute
of limitations of 'Tennessee, alleging that the cause of action

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Kirkman v. Hamilton and others.]

did not accrue within three years. Second, that at the time
the note was given they were citizens and inhabitants of Smith
county in the 'state of Tennessee, of which state the plaintiff
was then a citizen, and in which state the note was given.
To the plea of the statute of limitations, and to the second
plea, the plaintiff demurred, and assigned as causes of demurrer,
1. That the plea does not state that this is an action of debt
for arrearages of rent. 2. The declaration is not in debt for
arrearages of rent. 3. The cause of action sued upon is not
arrearages of rent. 4. The second plea is uncertain, unsound,
and insufficient.
Upon the argument of the demurrer in this cause, as applicable to the plea of the statute of limitations to the second
count in the plaintiff's declaration, the court were divided in
opinion upon the following questions: Whether the plea of
the statute of limitations is a bar to the recovery of the plaintiff on the second count in the declaration; and whether an
action of debt can be supported on the cafise of action set
forth in said second count:* whether the averment of the citizenship of Thomas Ram.sey & Co., the payers of the note in
the said secoind count, is sufficient to sustain the jurisdiction of
this court under the provisions of the eleventh section of the
judiciary act of 1789. Which certificate of division of opinion
was ordered to be certified to the Supreme Court of the United
States, according to law.
The case was argued by Mr Webster for the plaintiff. No
counsel appeared on the part of The defendant. Mr Webster
also presented to the court a written argument frorrL Thomas
Washington, the counsel for the plaintiff in the circuit court.
It was contended, that the plea of the statute of limitations
of Tennessee does not apply to the action of debt at all, unless
to debt for arrearages of rent, which is not the nature of this
action. Act of 17,15 of North Carolina, chapter 27, section 5,
Scott's Revisal, 15. This act applies exclusiyply to the form
of the action. Besides; acts 6f liriittion bar the remedy and
not the right.
The act of 1715, chapter 31, section 7, does not apply,
even if, by that act, the act. of James is in force in Tennessee; because six years had not elapsed before the bringing

SUPREME COURT.
[Kirkman v. Hamilton and others.]

of this suit. It has not yet been decided by the Supreme
Court of Tennessee whether the act of James is in force in
Tennessee or not; but thequestion is depending at this time.
The defendants, in sdpport of that plea, rely upon the act
of 1786, chapter 4, section 5. In answer to that, the plaintiff says, that by the act of 1786, the limitation is only to
apply in the same manner, in a suit founded upon an indorsed
note under seal, as it would apply in a suit upon a promissory note indorsed; and that the action against the maker of
the former, would be debt, and that against the maker of the
latter, might be debt. Raburg v. Peyton, 2 Wheat. 385.
So that the limitation intended by the act of 1786 never
could apply, unless in a suit against an indorser of a sealed
note. See act of 1762, chapter 9, section 2; see also act
of 1789, chapter 57, section 3. There has been no decision
of the Supreme Court upon the applidability of the act of
1786, to an actiod of debt against the maker of a sealed note,
nor is the question depending.
As to the averment of the citizenship of the original parties
to the note, it was contended, that the payees of the note, Thomas Ramsey and Co., although citizens of Tennessee when the
note was made, yet if they had become citizens of Alabama,
and had not assigned it, they could have maintained a suit in
their own names in the federal court; and that, consequently,
if they had the right, they could communicate it; or, at least,
that their assignees would not be precluded by any disability
of their assignors.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case comes up from the court of the United States for
the seventh circuit, and district of West Tennessee, on a certificate that the judges of that court were divided in opinion on
the following questions. 1. Whether the plea of the statute of
limitations is a bar to the recovery of the plaintiff, on the
second count in the declaration? 2. Whether an action o.
debt can be supported on the cause of action set forth in said
second count? 3. Whether the averment of the citizenship
of Thomas Ramsey & Co., the payees of the note in the said
second count, is sufficient to sustain the. jurisdiction of this

JANUARY

WRM 1832.

[Kirkman v. Hamilton and others.]

court, under the provisiotls of the eleventh section of the judiciary act of 1789?
The second count is a declaration in debt on a piromissory
note executed by the defendants, made payable to Thomas
Ramsey & Co., then citizens of Tennessee, and indorsed by
them, after becoming citizens of Alabama, to the plaintiff, a
citizen of Alabama, who instituted the suit as assignee of the
said note.
The first question depends on an act of the stAte of North
Carolina, passed in the year 1715, and was the law of Tennessee; the eighth section of which enacts "9that all actions of
trespass, detinuc, actions sur trover and replevin for taking away
of goods and chattels, all actions of accoutit,'and upon the case,
all actions of debt for arrearages of-rent, and all actions of assault, menace, battery, wounding and imprisonment, or any of
them, which shall be sued or brought at any time after the
ratification of this act, shall be brought within the time and
limitation in this act expressed, and not after; that is to say,
actions of account render, actions upon the case, actions of
debt for arrearages of rent, actions of detinue, replevin and
trespass, quare cIusurnfregit, within three years next after
the ratification of this act, or within three years next after the
cause of such action or suit, and not after."
This statute bars the particular actions it recites, and no
others. It does not bar actions of debt generally, but those
only which are brought for arrearages of rent. This is not
brought for arrearages of rent; and is consequently not barred.
The action of debt, unless it be brought for arrearages of
rent, not being within this statute, the court perceives no other
w;hich bars it. If the seventh section of the thirty-irst chapter of the act of 1715 was even to be considered as adopting
the act of limitations of the fourth of James I., it would not
affect this case, because the suit was brought within the time
allowed by that act.
The act of 1786, chapter 4, was intended to make all bills,
bonds, &- negotiable, though under seal, and to enable the
assignee to sue in his own name, and to bringan action on the
case, notwithstanding the seal. The proviso of the fifth section,
that "the act of limitations shall apply to all bonds, bills, and
other securities hereafter executed, made transferable by this

SUPREME COURT.
(Kirkman v. Hamilton and others.]

act, after the assignment or indorsement thereof, in the same
manner as it operates by law against promissory notes," cannot,
we think, be fairly construed to extend the act of limitations in
its operation on promissory notes.
We are therefore of opinion that the plea of the statute of
limitations is not a bar to the recovery 6f the plaintiff, on the
second count in his declaration.
The second question propounded is, whether an action of
debt can be supported on the cause of action set forth in the
second count?
The cause of action is a promissory note made by the defendants, and indorsed by the payees to the plaintiff.
In 1762 the legislature of North Carolina passed an act,
chapter 9, "for the more easy recovery of money due upon
promissory notes, and to render such notes negotiable."
The
second section declares that all such notes, payable to order,
"may be assignable over in like manner as inland bills of exchange are by custom of merchants in England," and that the
person or persons "to whom such money is, or shall be payable,
may maintain an action for the same, as they might upon such
bill of exchange," and the person or persons ", to whom such
note so payable to order is assigned or indorsed, may maintain
an action against the person or persons," &c. "who signed or
shall sign such notes, or any who shall have indorsed the same,
as in cases of inland bills of exchange."
The note claimed in
the second count of the declaration is payable to order.
In 1786 the legislature passed "can act to make the securities
therein named negotiable," by which notes not expressed to be
payable to order are placed on the same footing with those
which are made so payable. The indorsee being thus entitled
to sue in his own name, in like manner as on inland bills of
exchange in England, the inquiry is, whether the indorsee of
an inland bill of exchange may maintain an action of debt
thereon in England.
This question was fully considered by this court in the case
of Raburg et al. v. Peyton, reported in 2 Wheat. 385, which was
an action of debt brought by the indorsee of a bill of exchange
against the acceptor. The cases were reviewed in the opinion
then given, and the court decided clearly, that both on principle and authority the actio.n was maintainable.

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Kirkman v. Hamilton and others.]

We therefore think that an action of debt can be supported
on the cause of action set forth in the second count.
The third question asks, " whether the averment of the citizenship of Thomas Ramsey& Co., the payees of the notes in
the said second count,-is sufficient to sustain the jurisdiction of
this court under the provisions of the eleventh section of the
judiciary act of 1789?
That section gives jurisdiction to the circuit courts of the
United States, where "the suit is between a citizen of the
state where the suit is brought, and a citizen of another state."
This suit is brought in the circuit court for the state of Tennessee, by a citizen of Alabama, against a citizen of Tennessee.
It comes, therefore, within the very words of the seetioh, and
is within the jurisdiction 6f the court, unless taken out of it by
the exception. The words of the exception, so far as they
apply to the case, are, "nor sball any district or circuit court
have cognizance of any suit to recover the contents of any
promissory note or other chose in action in favour of an assignee, unless a suit might have been prosecuted in such suit
to recover the said contents if no assignment had been.made."
When this note was assigned, the payees, as is averred in
the second count, had become citizens of Alabama, and might,
consequently, have prosecuted a suit to recover the contents
of the said note in the circuit court of the United States for
Tennessee, if no assigthment had been made. The averment
of the citizt.nship of Thomas Ramsey & Co. in the said second
count, is therefore sufficient to sustain the jurisdiction of that
court, under the provisions of the eleventh section of the judi.
ciary act of 1789.
All which was ordered to be certified to the circuit court of
the United States for the seventh circuit, and district of West
Tennessee.

VOL. VI.-D

