SUPREME COURT.

JAMES

MOORE,

DEFENDANT

BELOW,

NOW PLAINTIFF

IN

ERROR V. THE PRESIDENT, DIRECTORS AND COMPANY OF
THE BANK OF COLUMBIA, DEFENDANTS IN ERROR.

The principle clearly to be deduced from the decisions of this court on the statute of limitations is, that in addition to the admission of a present subsisting
debt, there must be either an express promise to pay, or circumstances from
which an implied promise may fairly be presumed.
An examination and summary of the decisions of this court on the statute of
limitations.
The English statute of 9th May 1829, Geo. 4. ch. 14, relative to the limitation
of actions.

ERROR to the circuit court of the United States for the county
of Washington, in the district of Columbia.
This was an action on a promissory note drawn by James
Moore, the plaintiff i 1 error, in favour of Gilbert Docker, and
by him indorsed to the Bank of Columbia. The note was for
five hundred dollars, dated April 25th, 1816, and payable
sixty days after date.
The suit was commenced on the 14th of July 1825. It was
originally instituted under the provisions of the charter granted
to the Bank of Coluifbia, by filing a copy of the note in the
office of the clerk of the circuit court for the district of Columbia, and an order to the clerk from the president of the bank;
upon which a writ of fieri facias was issued to the marshal of
the district, commanding him to levy on the goods of the
drawer of the note, the amount thereof with interest and costs.
On the return of the marshal that he had levied on the goods
of the defendant; he, the defendant, appeared in court and
alleged that he had a good and legal defence to plead in bar to
the claim of the plaintiffs in the execution. The case was
placed on the docket for trial; and a declaration on the note
having been filed, the defendant pleaded the statute of limitations, and issue was joined thereon. A verdict was rendered
for the plaintiffs, and judgment entered by the court.
On the trial the following bill of exceptions was tendered by
the defendant in the circuit court; and, under the special allow-

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Monre v. The Bank of Columbia.]

ance of a writ of error by Mr Chief Justice Marshall, the case
came before this court.
The plaintiffs, to support the issue aforesaid on their part,
produced and read in evidence to the jury, the note and indorsement in the declaration mentioned, being the only cause
of action produced or shown in this cause; which note and
indorsement are in these words, to wit:Washington City, dp-il 25, 1816.
$500. Sixty days after date I promise to pay Gilbert
Docker, or order, five hundred dollars, for value, received,
negotiable at the Bank of Columbia.
JAMES MOORE.
Credit the drawer. G. D.
Indorsed-Pay the contents of the within note Io the President, Directors and Company of the Bank of Columbia, or
order. Value received. Gilbert Docker.
The plaintiffs, in order to prove an acknowledgement of the
defendant within-three years next before the commencement
of this suit, so as to take the case on the said note out of the
statute of limitations, produced William A. Rind, who testified
that in the summer of 1823 he went into a tavern to read the
newspapers, where he saw, in the public room, the defendant
and two companions drinking, the defendant appearing to be
elevated with what he had drank. After the witness came
into the room, and while sitting there looking at the newspapers, he overheard a conversation between the defendant
and his two companions, in which they were bantering him
about his independent circumstances, and his being so clear of
debt or of the banks; when the defendant jumped up and
danced about the room, exclaiming, " Yes, except one damned
five hundred in the Bank of Columbia, which I can pay at an!
time." No part of this conversation was addressed to the
witness, nor did he take any part in it. The witness had been
for some time clerk in the Bank of Columbia, in Georgetown,
but was then in the prison bounds in the city of Washington;
and after his discharge from the prison bounds, immediately
returned to the bank in Georgetown; he believes the defendant, at the time of the above conversation, knew him to be a
clerk of the Bank of Columbia; and the defendant, at the time
he used the expressions above mentioned, turned round and
looked at the witness: the witness at the time knew that the

SUPREME COURT.
[Moore v. The Bank of Columbia.]

note in question was lying over in bank, and knows of no
other five hundred dollar note of the defendant in that bank,
hut what was paid. The plaintiffs further proved, that, upon
examination of their books, no other discounted note of the
defendant stood charged to the defendant' at the time of the
said conversation.
Whereupon the counsel for the defendant prayed the court
to instruct the jury that the evidence aforesaid did not import
such an acknowledgement of the debt in question as was sufficient to take it out of the statute of limitations; which instructions the court refused, and permitted the said evidence to go
to the jury as evidence of an acknowledgement to repel the bar
of the statute. To which decision the defendant excepts, &c.
The case was argued by Mr. Z. C. Lee and Mr Jones for
the plaintiff; and by Mr Lear and Mr Sergeant for the defendants.
For the plaintiff in error it was contended, that the promise
upon which the drawer of the note was sought to be made
liable, was too vague and indefinite. It was not made with
the requisite deliberation, nor to a person capable of receiving
it for the benefit of the holders of the note. No agent for the
bank was present; nor were the circumstances of the case such
as that a serious purpose of reviving an extinguished liability
for the note could be inferred.
Nor was the promise such as was sufficient to take the case
out of the statute of limitations. Cited, 1 Starkey's Rep. 73; 3
Taunt. Rep. 380; 3 Bingh. 329; 1 Serg. & Rawle, 176; 5
Binney, 530; 11 Johns. 146; 15 Johns. 511; 2 Pickering,
368; 8 Cranch, 72; 11 Wheat. 309, 314; 12 Wheat. 567; 1
Peters, 351, 362.
It was admitted that a clear unequivocal acknowledgement of
a,debt is sufficient to prevent the operation of the statute; but
it must be such as amounts to a new contract. The former
liability will dispense with a new consideration; but in all other
respects there must be enough to infer a new contract. *Here
there was not siifficient to sustain an action on the promise.
Mr Lear and Mr Sergeant for the defendants in error.
The decisions of this court have extended the operation of

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Moore v. Th Bank of Columbia J

the statute of limitations further perhaps than any other; yet this
court has-never said that an unconditional acknowledgement of
a specific sum would not remove the bar without any promise
to pay. On the contrary, there is. a clear intimation in the
case of Bowie and Henderson, 6 "Vheat.514, that it would.
In this case there is an unequivocal acknowledgement that
five hundred is owing from the plaintiff to the bank. Five
hundred what? The court must supply something, if it is to
be left to the court, though it is rather the province of the
jury, and should hAve been left to the jury to infer what kind
of money was meant. But if the inference is for the courts
will they not understand by it the legal and usual currency of
the country? Would they say that a man, speakdug of a debt
of five hundred to a bank dealing in dollars and cents only,
meant poundsv and not dollars. The fair inference then is,
that he meant either dollars or cents; but it is not likely that
he would owe the bank a debt so small as five hundred cents,
and if he did, he would not call it five hundred cents, but five
dollars. It is only to an amount less than one dollar that we
apply the denomination-of cents, as fifty cents or seventy-five
cents, but no one in common parlance speaks of five hundred
cents. .The only fair inference is, therefore, that he spoke of
dollars, and must have meant a note of five hundred dollars
which he owed the Bank of Columbia. This is corroborated
by our showing that he actually did owe a note of five hundred
dollars to that bank, for which he had been sued before he
made the acknowledgement.
The acknowledgement then is, in itself, sufficient, according
to the case of Bowie and Hetiderson. Is it necessary that it
should bt made to the plaintiff himself.? Many, if not most
of the cases, show that the acknowledgement is made to the
person who is called as a witness to prove it. It was sc'in the
case of Wetzell and Bussard, 11 Wheat. 309; and is decided
to be binding by the case of Oliver v. Gray, 1 Har. & Gill,
218, to whomsoever male. This case of Oliver and Gray is
decided by the highest court of the state of Maryland, upon
the construction of a statute of that state, which is the very
statute pleaded in the case at bar; and this court has repeatedly
said, that it would adopt the rule of construction of the highest
tribunal of a state as to their statutes and practice. If it he
VOL. V.---!M

SUPREME COURT.
[Moore v. The Bank of Columbla,]

contended that this is now by adoption a statute of this district, and that the case of Oliver and Gray has been decided
lately, and since the adoption of the statute here to the case of
Goldsborough v. Orr, 8 Wheat. 217, is relied upon; in which
this court decided a point of practice under the attachment
law of this district, upon the authority of a decision of the
court of appeals of Maryland; so recent that it had not been
reported, and was procured in manuscript from Annapolis, by
one of the counsel in the cause.
If the acknowledgement is in itself sufficient, I cannot for a
momentt suppose that it s the less binding because made in a
tavern, or while the man %as drunk.
The cases of Cleminston v. Williams, 8 Cranch, 72; of Wetzell and Bussard, 11 Wheat. 309; and Bell and Morrison, I
Peters, 352, have gone as far probably in extending the operation of the statute of limitations, as this court will go. This
being such an unqualified acknowledgement of a specic debt
as those cases seem to require, it is considered sufficient to remove the bar of the statute.
Mr Jijstice TnoMPsoN delivered the opinion of the Court.
The only.queition in this case is, whether the evidence
offered upon the trial was sufficient., to prevent the statute of
limitation from barring the action.
The suit was founded upon a promissory note made by the
plaintiff in error, bearing date the 25th of April 1816, by
which, sixty days after date, he promised to pay Gilbert
Docker or order five hundred dollars, value received, at the
Bank of Columbia.
The note was duly indorsed to the Bank of Columbia, and
iri July 1825 a suit was commenced in the circuit court of the
United States for the district of Columbia, upon that note. The
statute of limitations, among other pleas, was interposed; and
the plaintiff in the court below, to take the case out of the
statute, proved by William A. Rind, that in the summer of
1823 he went into a tavern to read the newspapers, when he
saw ii the public room the defendant James Moore and two
companions drinking, Moore appearing to be elevated with
what he had drank; and Whilst there, looking at the-newspapers,
he overheard a conversation between the defendant and his

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Moore v. The Bank of Columbia.]

tWo companions, in which they were bantering him about his
independent circumstances, and of his being so clear of debt
or of the banks, when the defendant jumped up and danced
about the room, exclaiming, "Yes, except one damned five
hundred in the Bank of Columbia, which I can pay at arly
time." No part of this conversation was addressed to the
witness. The witness had been a clerk in the bank, but was
then in the prison bounds in the city of Washington, and
nfter his discharge from prison, he immediately returned
to the bark in Georgetown.
The witness believed the
defendant knew him to be a cletk in the bank. At this
time be, the witness, knew the note in question was lying
over in bank, and he knows of no other five hundred dollar
note of the defendant in that bank but what is paid. The
plaintiffs further proved, that upon examination of their
books, no other discounted note of the defendant stood charged to him at the time of the conversation referred to by the
witness.
Upon this evidence the defendant, prayed the court to instruct the jury that the evidence aforesaid did not import such
an acknowledgeinent of the debt in question as was sufficient
to take it out of the statute of limitations; which instruction
the court refused, and permitted the evidence to go to the jury,
as evidence of an acknowledgement to repel the bar of the
statute. The jury found a verdict for t6 plaintiff. A bill of
exceptions was taken to the decision of the court, and the case
is brought here by writ of error.
The question as to what shall be a sufficient acknowledgement or prohiise to take a case out of the statute, has frequently
received the attention and examination of this court, and the
cases both in England and in this country have been critically
reviewed. It is deemed unnecessary again to travel over this
ground, but it is sufficient barely to apply some of the rules
and principles to be extracted from these cases, to the facts in
the one now before us.
This court, in the case of Cleminston v. Williams, S Cranch,
72, nearly twenty years since, expressed :i very decided opinion, that courts had gone quite far enough in admitting ac'knowledgements and confessions to bar the operation of the
statute of.limitations, and that this court was not inclined to

SUPREME COURT.
[Moore v. Thd Bank of Columbia.]

extend them- that the statute was entitled to the same respect as other statutes, and ought not to be explained away.
And from the course of decisions in the state courts, as well
as ir England, such seems to have been-the general impression;
and they have been gradually returning to a construction more
in accordance with the letter, as well as the spirit and intention of the statute.
In- the case referred to, it was laid down as a rule applicable to this question, that an acknowledgement of the original justice of a claim, was not sufficient-to take the case out of
the statute; but the. acknowledgement must go to the fact that
it was still due. And in Wetzell v. Bussard, 11 Wheat. 310,
it is held, that the acknowledgement must be unqualified and
unconstitutional, amounting to an admission that the original
debt was justly demandable. If the acknowledgements are
conditional, they cannot be construed into a revival of the
original cause of action; unless that be done on which the revival was made to depend. It may be considered a new promise, or which the old debt is a sufficient consideration; and
the 1laintiTf ought to prove a performance, or a readiness- to
perform the condition on which the promise was made.
This is the doctrine which prevails in the state courts geneStally. In New York it is held, that an acknowledgement, to
take a case out of the rtatute of limitations, must be of a present subsisting debt. If the acknowledgement be qualified so.
as to repel the presumption of a promise to pay, it is not sufficient evidence of a promibe to kay, so as to prevent the operation of the statute.
15 ohns. Rep. 511; 6 Johns. Ch.
Rep. 266, 290.,

This question again, recently (1828), came undet- the consideration of this court in the case of Bell v. Morrison, 1 Peters, 352, and underwent a very elaborate examination; and
the leading cases in the English and American courts were
reviewed, and the court say, "we adhere to the doctrine in
Wetzell v. Bussard, and think it the only exposition of the
statute Which is consistant with its true object and import.
If the bar is sought to be removed by the proof of a new promise, that promise, as a new cause of action, ought to be
proved in a clear and explicit manner, and be in its terms unequivocal and determinate."

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Moore v. The Bank of Columbia.]

If there be no expruss promise, but a promise is to be raised
by implication of law from the acknowledgement of the party,
such acknowledgement ought fo contain an unqualified and
direct admission of a previous subsisting debt, which the party
is liable and willing to pay. If there be accompanying circumstances which repel the presumption of a promise or intention to pay, if the expressions be equivocal, vague and indeterminate, leading to no certain conclusion, but at best to
probable inferences, which may affect -different minds in different ways, they ought not to go to a jury as evidence of a
new promise to revive the cause of action.. Any other course
would open all the mischiefs, against which the statute was
intended to guard innocent persons, and expose them to the
danger of being entrapped in careless conversations.
The principle clearly to be deduced from-these cases is, that,
in addition to the admission of a present, subsisting debt, there
must be either an express promise to pay, or circumstances
from which an implied promise may fairly be presumed.
And this is the conclusion to which the English courts,
after a most vacillating course of decisions, had come, before
the late act of parliament of Geo. IV. ch. 14. This act shows,
in a very striking point of view, the sense of that country of
the great mischiefs which had resulted from admitting vague
and loose declarations, in a great measure to set aside and
make void the statute of limitations.
That act (9th May 1829) recites, that, whereas various
questions have arisen in actions founded on simple contract
as to the proof and effect of acknowledgements and promises
offercd in evidence for the purpose of taking cases out of the
operations of said enactments (statute of limitations), and it is
expedient to prevent such questions, and to make provision
for giving effect to the said enactments, and to the intention
thereof: be it enacted, &c., that in actions of debt, or upon
the case grounded upon any simple contract, no acknowledgement or promise by words only shall be deemed sufficient
evideice of a new or continuing contract, whereby to take
any case out of the operation of the said enactments, or to deprive any party of the benefit thereof; unless such acknowledgement or promise shall be made, or contained by or in

SUPREME COURT.
[Moore v. The Bank of Columbia.]

some writing to be signed by the party chargeable thereby,
Martin's Treatise on Act 9 Geo. IV.
Although this act can have no direct bearing upon the question here, it serves to illustrate and confirm the fitness and
policy of the course pursued by our courts, in cautiously admitting loose verbal declarations and promises to take a case
out of the statute of limitations.
If the doctrine of this court, as laid down in the cases I
have referred to, is to govern the one now before us, the facts
and circumstances given in evidence fall very far short of
taking the case out uf the statute of limitations. There is no
direct acknowledgement of a present subsisting debt; no express promise to pay; nor any circumstances from which an
implied promise may fairly be presumed. The declarations
of the defendant below were vague and indeterminate, leading
to no certain conclusion, -and at best to probable inference
only; and indeed, if unexplained by any other evidence,
they were senseless. It is left uncertain Aven whether the
conversation referred to the note in question. The evidence
that this was the only five hundred dollar note of his lying
over in the bank, might afford a plausible conjecture that this
was the one *alludedto. But that is not enough, according to
the rule laid down in Bell v. Morrison; nor is there any
dhrect admission of a present subsisting debt due. The epithet which accompanied the declaration, would well admit
of a contrary conclusion; and that there were some circumstances attending it that would .lead him to resist payment.
The assertion of his ability to pay, is no promise to pay.
The whole declarations, taken together, do not amount
either to an explicit promise to pay,,made in terms unequivocal and determinate, or disclose circumstances from which an
implied promise may fairly be presumed; one or the other of
which this court has said 's necessary to take the case out of
the statute.
The court below therefore erred in not giving the instructions prayed for by the defend'ant.
The judgment must accordingly be reversed, and the cause
sent back, with directions to issue a venire de novo.

