JANUARY TERM 1832.

291

ASA GREEN, PLAINTIFF IN ERRoR v. TnE LESSEE oF HExy
NEAL, DEFENDANT IN ERROR.
The case of Patton's Lessee v. Easton, I Wheat. 276, and Powell' Lessee v.
Green, 2 Peters, 240, as to the statutes of limitations of Tennessee, overruled.
In the case of Patton's Lessee v. Easton, this court, after examining the provisions of the statute of limitations of Tennessee in reference to a peaceable possession of land for seven years by virtue of a grant, or deed of conveyance
founded upon a grant, and no legal claim by suit set up to the lands, say; " this
question, too, has at length been decided in the supr-me court for the state of
Tennessee, which have settled the construction of the act of 1797. It has
been decided that a possession of seven years is a bar only when held "under
a grant, or a deed founded on a grant." "The deed must be connected with
the grant. This court concurs in that opinion." The two cases to which the
court referred were decided in 1805, and the court considered that they settled the construction of the act of 1797. But it is now made to appear that
these decisions were made under such circumstances, that they were never
considered in the state of Tennessee as fully settling the construction of the
act. The question was frequently raised before the supreme court of Tennessee, but the construction of the two statutes of limitations was never considered as finally settled until 1828, when the case of Gray and Reeder v.
Darby's Lessee was decided. In that case it has been adjudged that it is not
necessary, to entitle an individual to the benefit of the statutes, that he should
show a connected title, either legal or equitable. That if lie prove an adverse
possession, under a deed, of seven years before suit is brought, and show that
the land has been granted, he brings himself within the statutes. Since this
decision, the law has been considered settled in Tennessee, and there has been
so general an acquiescence in all the courts of the state, that the point is not
now raised ot discussed. As it appears to this court, that the construction of
the statutes of limitations of Tennessee is now well settled, different from what
was supposed to be the rule at the time this court decided the case of Patton's
Lesee v. Easton, and the case of Powell's Lessee v. Green; and as the instructiuns of the circuit court of Tennessee were governed by these decisions, and
not by the settled law of the state; the judgment must be reversed, and the
cauie remanded for further proceedings.
This court have uniformly adopted the decisions of the state tribunals, respectively, ir, the construction of their statutes. This has been done as a matter
of principle; in all cases where the decision of a state court has become a rule
of property.
In a gieat majority of the causes brought before the federal tribunals, they are
called on to enforce the laws of the states. The rights of parties are determined
under these laws, and it would be a strange perversion of principle if the judicial exposition of these laws by the state tribunals, should be disregarded.
These expositions constitute the law, and fix the rule of property. Rights are
acquired under this rule; and it regulates all the transactions which come within its scope.
On all questions arising under the constitution and laws of the union, this court

SUPREME COURT.
[Green Y.Lessee of Neal.]
may exercise a revising power; and its decisions are final and obligatory on all
other judicial tribunals, state as well as federal. A statj tribunal has a right to
examine any such questions, and to determine thereon; but its decision must
conform to that of the Supreme Court, or the corrective power may be exercised. But the case is very different when the question arises under a local law.
The decision of this question by the highest tribunal of a state, should be considered as final by this court; not because the state tribunal in such a case has
any power to hind this court; but because, in the language of the court in the
case of Shelby et al. v. Guy, IIWheaL 361, "a fixed and received construction by a state in its own courts, makes a part of the statute law."
If the construction of the highest judicial tribunal of a state forms a part of the
statute law, as much as an enactment by the legislature, how can this court
make a distinction between them? There could be no hesitation in so modifying our decisions as to conform to any legislative alteration in a statute;
and why should not the same rule apply where the judicial branch of the
state government, in the exercise of its acknowledged functions, should, by
construction, give a different effect to a statute from what had at first been
given to it. The charge of inconsistency might be made with more force and
propriety against the federal tribunals for a disregard of this rule, than by conforming to it. They profess to be bound by the local law, and yet they reject
the exposition of that law which forms a part of it. It is no answer to this
objection that a different exposition was formerly given to the act which was
adopted by the federal court. The inquiry is, what is the settled law of the
state, at the time the decision is made. This constitutes the rule of property
within the state, by which the rights of litigant parties must be determined.
As the federal tribunals profess to be governed by this rule, they cannot act in.
consistently by enforcing it. If they change their decision, it is because the
rule on which the decision was founded, has been changed.

ERROR to the circuit court of the United States for the district of West Tennessee.
Mlt Grundy for the plaintiff in error; Mr Isaacks for the defendant.
The facts of the case are fully stated in the opinion of the
Court, delivered by Mr Justice M'LEA.
This writ of error is prosecuted to reverse a judgment of the
circuit court for West Tennessee. An action of ejectment
was prosecuted by Neal in that court, to recover the possession
of six hundred and forty acres of land. The issue was joined,
and at the trial, the defendant relied upon the statute of limitations, and prayed certain instructions of the court to the jury.
Instructions were given, as stated in the following bill of exceptions.
"In the trial, the plaintiff introduced in evidence a grant
, to
from the state of North Carolina, dated

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Green v. Lessee of Neal.]

Willoughby Williams, for the land in controversy, and deduced
a regular chain of conveyances to plaintiff's lessor, and proved
defendant in possession of the land in question at the time suit
was brought, defendant introduced a deed from Andrew Jackson to Edward Dillon, and proved that the defendant held by
a lease from Dillon; and also in support of Dillon's title, introduccd evidence tdnding to prove that persons claiming under
and for Dillon, had been more than seven years in possession
of the premises in dispute, adverse to the plaintiffs: upon which
the court charged the jury, that according to the present state
of decision in the Supreme Court of the United States, they
could not charge that defendant's title was made good by the
statute of limitations."
The decision of the point raised by the bill of exceptions in
this case, is one of great importance; both as it respects the
amount of property which may be affected by it, and the
piinciple which it involves.
In the case of Patton's Lessee v. Easton, which was brought
to this court by writ of error in 1816, the same question,
which was raised by the bill of exceptions, was then decided;
But it is contended, that under the peculiar circumstances
of the case now before the court, they ought not to feel themselves bound by their former decision. This court, in the
case of Powell's Lessee v. Green, 2 Peters, 240, gave another
decision, under the authority of the one just named; but the
question was not argued before the court.
The question involves, in the first place, the construction of
the statutes of limitations -passed in 1715 and in 1797. The
former was adopted by the state -of Tennessee, from North
Carolina; the third section of which provides, ,' that no person
or persons, or their heirs, which hereafter shall have any right
or title to any lands, tenements or hereditaments, shall thereunto enter or make claim, but within seven years after his, her
or their right or title shall descend or accrue; and in default
thereof, such person or persons, so not entering or making
default, shall be utterly excluded and disabled from any entry
or claim thereafter to be made." The fourth section provides,
after enumerating certain disabilities, and the time within
which suit must be brought, after they shall cease, that "call
possessions held without suing such claim as aforesaid, shall

SUPREME COURT.
[Green v. Lessee of Neal.]

be a perpetual bar against all, and all manner of persons whatever, that the expectation of heirs may not, in a short time,
loave much land unpossessed, and titles so perplexed that no
man will know from whom to take or buy land."
In the year 1797, the legislature, in order to settle the "true
construction of the existing laws respecting seven years'
possession," enact " that in all cases, wherever any person or
persons shall have had seven years' peaceable possession of
any land, by virtue of a grant or deed of conveyance founded
upon a grant, and no legal claim by suit in law, by such, set
up to said land, within the abov6 term, that then, and in that
case, the person or persons so holding possession as aforesaid,
shall be entitled to hold possession in preference to all other
claimants, such quantity of land as shall be specified in his, her
or their said grant or deed of conveyance, founded on a grant
This act further provides, that those who
as aforesaid."
neglect, for the term of seven years, to assert their claim, shall
be barred.
This court, in the conclusion of their opinion in the case of
Patton's Leksee v. Easton, say, "this question, too, has at
length, been decided in the supreme court of the state. Subsequent to the division of opinion on this question in the circuit court, two cases have been decided in the supreme court
for the state of Tennessee, which have settled the construction
of the act of 1797. it has been decided, that a possession of
seven years is a bar only when held "under a grant, or a
deed founded on a grant." The deed must be connected with
the grant. This court concurs in that opinion, A deed cannot be "founded on a grant," which gives a title not derived
in law or equity from that grant, and the words, founded on
azgrant, are too important to be discarded."
The iwo decided cases to which reference is made above, are
Lillard v. Elliot, and Douglass v. Bledsoe's Heirs. These cases
were decided in the year 1815; and this court considered, that
they ..ettled the construction of the statute of 1797. But it is
now made to appear that these decisions were made under
such circumstances, that they were never considered, in the
state of Tennessee, as fully settling the construction of the act.
In the case of Lillard v. Elliot, it seems but two judges concurred on the point, the court being composed of four; and in

JANUARY TERM 1s32.
[Green v. Lessee of Neal.]

the case of Weatherhead v. Douglass, there Was great contrariety of opinion among the judges, on the point of either legal
or equitable connexion. The question was frequently raised
before the supreme court of Tennessee; but the construction
of the two statutes of limitations was never considered as
finally settled until 1825, when the case of Gray and Reeder v.
Darby's Lessee was decided.
In this cause, an elaborate review of the cases which had
arisen under the statute, is taken, and the construction of both
statutes was given, that it is not necessary, to entitle an individual to the benefits of the statutes, that he should show a
connected title, either legal or equitable. That if he prove an
adverse possession of seven years under a deed, before suit is
brought, and show that the land has been granted, he brings
himself within the statutes.
Since this decision the law has been considered as settled
in Tennessee, and there has been so general an acquiescence in
all the courts of the state, that the point is not now raised or discussed. This construction has become a rule of property i n
the state, and numerous suits involving title have been settled
by it.
Had this been the settled construction of thesd statutes when
the decision was made by this court, in the case of Patton's
Lessee v. Easton, there can be no doubt, that 'that opinion
would have conformed to it. But the question is now raised,
whether this court will adhere.to its own decision, made under
the circumstances stated, or yield to that of the judicial tribunals of Tennessee. This point has never before been directly
decided by this court, on a question of general importance.
The cases are numerous where the court have adopted" the
constructions given to the statute of a state by its supreme judicial tribunal; but it has never been decided, that this court will
overrule their own adjudication, establishing an important rule
of property, where it has been founded on the construction of
a statute made in conformity to the decisions of the state at the
time, so as to conform to a different construction adopted afterward; by the state.
This is a question of grave import, and should be approached"
with great deliberation: It is deeply interesting, in every
point of view in which it may be considered. As a rule of

SUPREME COURT.
[Green v. Lessee of Neal.]

property, it is important; and equally so, as it regards the
system under which the powers of this tribunal are exercised.
It may be proper to examine in what light the decisions of
the state courts, in giving a construction to their own statutes,
have been considered by this court.
It the case of M'Keen v. Delancy's Lessee, reported in 5
Cranch, 22, this court held, that the acknowledgement of a deed
before a justice of the supreme court, under a statute which
required the acknowledgement to be made before a justice of
the peace, having, been long practised in Pennsylvania, and
sanctioned by her tribunals, must be considered as within
the statute.
The chief justice, in giving the opinion of the court in the
case of Bodle-y v. Taylor, 5 Cranch, 221, says, in reference to
the jurisdiction of a court of equity, "4had this been a case of
the first impression, some contrariety of opinion would, perhaps, have existed on this point. But it has been sufficiently
shown, that the practice of resorting to a court of chancery irn
order to set up an equitable against the legal title, received in
its brigin the sanction of the court of appeals, while Kentucky
remained a part of Virginia, and has been so confirmed by an
uninterrupted series of decisions, as to be incorporated into
their system, and to be taken into view in the consideration of
every title to lands in that country. Such a principle cannot
now be shaken."
In the case of Taylor v. Brown, 5 Cranch, 255, the court
say, in reference to their decision in the case of Bodley v.
Taylor, "this opinion is still thought pcrfectly correct in
itself. Its application to particular cases, and indeed its being
considered as a rule of decision on Kentucky titles, will depend very. much on the decisions of that country. For, in
questions respecting title to real estate, especially, the same
rule ought certainly to prevail in both courts."
This court, in laying down the requisites of a valid entry,
in the case of Massie v. Watts, 6 Cranch, 165, say, " these
principles have been laid down by the courts, and must be
considered as expoitions of the statuit.
A great proportion
of the landed property of the country depnds on adhering to
them."
In 9 Cranch, 87, the court say, that " in cases depending

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Green v. Lessee of Neal.]

on the statute of a state, and more especially in those respecting titles to lands, the federal courts adopt the constructiop of
the state, where that construction is settled and can be ascertained. And in 5 Wheaton, 279, it is stated, that "the supreme court uniformly, acts under a desire to conform its decisions to those of the state courts, on their local laws."
The supreme court holds in the highest respect decisions
of state courts upon local laws forming rules of property, 2
Wheaton, 316. In construing local statutes respecting real
property, the courts of the union are governed by the decisions of-the state tribunals, 6 Wheaton, 119. The court say,
in the case of Elmandorf v. Taylor et al. 10 Wheaton, 152,
"that the courts of the United States, in cases depending on
the laws of a particular state, will, in general, adopt the construction which the courts of the state have given to those
laws."
"Thiscourse is founded upon the principle, supposed to be universally recognised, that the judicial department of every government, where, such department exists, is
the appropriate organ for construing the legislative' acts of
that government."
In 7 Wheat. 361, the court again declare, that "the statute
laws of the states must furnish the rule of decision to the federal courts, as far as they comport with the constitution of the
United States, in all cases arising within the respective states;
and a fixed and received construction of their respective statute
laws, in their own courts, makes a part of such statute law."
The court again say in 12 Wheaton, 153, "that this court
adopts the local law of real property as ascertained by the decisions of the state courts, whether these decisions are grounded
on the construction of the statutes of the ntate, or form a part of
the unwritten law of the state, which has become a fixed rulof property."
Quotations might be multiplied, but the above will show
that this court have uniformly adopted thd decisions of the
state tribunals, respectively, in the construction of their statutes. That this has been done as a matter of principle, 'in all
cases where the decision of a state court has become a rule of
property.
In a great majority of the causes brought before the federal
iribunals, they are called to enforce the laws of the states.
VOL. VI.-.2 N

SUPREME COURT.
[Green v. Lessee of Neal.]

The rights of parties are determined under those laws, and it
would be a strange perversion of principle, if the judicial exposition of those laws, by the.state tribunals, ihould be disregarded. Thesa expositions constitute the law, and fix the rule
of property. Rights are acquired under this rule, and it regulates all the transactions which come within its scope.
It is admitted in the argument, that this court, in giving a
construction to a local law, will be influenced by the decisions
of the local tribunals: but, it is contended, that when such a
construction shall be given in conformity to those decisions,
it must be considered final That if the state shall change the
,rule, it does not comport either with the consistency or dig.
nity of this tribunal to adopt the change. Such a course, it is
insisted, would recognise in the state eburts a power to revise
the decisions of this court, and fix the rule of property diffIerently from its solemn adjudications. That the federal court
when sitting within: a state, is the court of ti.kt state, being
so constituthd by the constitution and laws of the union; and
as such, has an equal ight with the state courts to fix the
construction of the local law.
Oall questions arising under the constitution and laws of
the union, this court may exercise a revising power; ai 2 its
decisions are final. and obligatory on all other judicial tribunals, state as well as federal. A state tribunal has a right to
examine any, such questions and to determine them, but its
decision must conf6rm to that of the supreme court, or the
correctiv'e power may be exdrcised. But the case is very differentwhere a question arises under a local law. The decision
of this question, by the highest judicial tribunal of a state,
should beiconsidered as final by this court; not because the
state tribunal, in such a case, has any power to bind this court;
but becalse, in the language of the court, in the case of Shelby
et al. v. Guy, 11 Wheat. 361, "a fixed and received constrtiction by a state in its own courts, makes a part of the statute law."
The sam reason which influences this court to adopt the
construction given to the local law, in the first instance, is not
le a strong in favour of following.it in the secofid, if the state
tribunals should change the construction. A reference is here
made not to a single adjudication, but to a series of decisions

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Green v. Lewee of Neal]

which shall settle the rule. Are not the injurious effects oai
the iQterests of the citizens of a state, as great, in refusing to
adopt the change of constructi6n, as in refusing to adopt the
first construction. A refusal in the one case as well as in the
other, has the effect to establishp in the state, two rules of property.
Would not a change in the construction of a law of the
United States, by this tribunal, be obligatory on the state
courts? The statute, as last expounded, would be the law of
the union; and why may not the same effect be given to the
last exposition of a local law by the state court? The exposition forms a part of the local law, and is binding on all the
people of the state, and its inferior judicial tribunals. It is
emphatically the law of the state; which the federal court,
while sitting within the state, and this court, when a case is
brought before them, are called to enforce. If the rule as settled should prove inconvenient or injurious to the public interests, the legislature of the state may modify the law or
repeal it.
If the construction of the highest- judicial tribunal of a state
form a part of its statute law, as much as an enactment by the
legislature, how can this court make a distinction between
them? There could be no hesitation in so. modifying our decisions as to conform to any legislative alteration in a statute;
and why should not the same rule apply, where the judicial
branch of the state government, in the exercise of its acknowledged functions, should, by donstruction, give a different
effect to a statute, from what had at first been given to it.
The charge of inconsistency might be made with more force
and propriety against the federal tribunals for a disregard of this
rule, than by conforming to it. They profess to be bound by
the local law; and yet they reject the exposition'of that law,
which forms a part of it. It is no answer to this objection,
that a different exposition was formerly given to the act which
was adopted by the federal court. The inquiry is, what is the
settled law of the state at the time the decision is made. This
constitutes the rule of property within the state, by which the
rights of litigant parties must be determined.
As the federal tribunals profess to be governed by this rule,
they can never act inconsistently by enforcing it. If they

SUPREME COURT.
[Green v. Lessee of Neal.]

change their decision, it is because the rule on which that decision was founded has been changed.
The case under consideration illustrates the propriety and
necessity of this rule. It is now the settled law of Tennessee,
that an adverse possession of seven years under a deed for
land that has -bleen granted, will give a valid title. But, by
the decision of this court, such a possession, under such evidence of right, will not give a valid title. In addition to the
above requisites, this court have decided that the tenant must
connect his deed with a grant. • It therefore follows, that the
occupant whose title is protected under the statutes, before a
state tribunal, is unprotected by them, before the federal court.
The plaintiff in ejectment, after being defeated in his action
before a state court, on the above construction, to insure success has only to bring an action in the federal court. This
may be easily done by a change of his residence, or a bona
fide conveyance of the land.
Here is a judicial conflict, arising from two rules of property
in the same state, and the consequences are not only deeply
injurious to the citizens of the state, but calculated to engender
the most lasting discQntents. It is therefore essential to the
interests of the country, and to the harinony of the judicial
action of the federal and state governments, that there should
be but one rule of property in a state.
In several of the states, the English statute of limitations
has been adopted, with various modifications; but in the saving clause, the expression "beyond the seas," is retained.
These words in some of the states are construed to mean "out
of the state," and in others a literal construction has been given
to them.
In the case of Murray's Lessee v. Baker et al. 3 Wheaton,
540, this court decided, that the expressions 4t beyond seas,"
and "out of the state," are analogous; and are to have the
same construction. But, suppose the same question should
be brought before this court from a state where the construction of the same words had been long settled to mean literally
beyond seas, would not this court conform to it? And might
not 'the same arguments be used in such a case, as are now
urged against conforming to the local construction of the law
of Tennessee. Apparent inconsistencies in the construction

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Green v. Lessee of Neal.]

of the statute laws of the states, may be expected to arise. from
the organization of our judicial systems; but an adherence by
the federal courts to the exposition of the local law, as given
by the courts of the state, will greatly tend to preserve harmony in the exercise of the judicial power, in the state and
federal tribunals. This rule is not only recommended by
strong considerations of propriety, growing out of our system
of jurisprudence, but it is sustained by principle and authority.
As it appears to this court, that the construction of the statutes
of limitations is now well settled, differently from what was
supposed to be the rule at the time thig court decided the case
of Patton's Lessee v. Easton, ai.d the case of Powell's Lessee
v. Green; and as the instructions of the circuit court were
governed by these decisions, and not by the settled law of the
state; the judgment must be reversed, and the cause remanded
for further proceedings.
Mr Justice BALDrwi dissented.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the circuit court of the United States for the district
of West Tennessee, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof. it is ordered and adjudged by this Court,
that the judgment of the said circuit court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby remanded to the said circuit court, with
directions to award a venire facias de novo.

