SUPREME COURT.

Ex PARTE MARTHA BRADSTREET, IN THE MATTER OF MAR72A BRADSTREET, DEMANDANT V. APOLLOS COOPER ET AL.
TENANTS.'

MR JONES, of counsel for the demandant in the above named
cases, moved the court for a rule to be granted, to be served
on the district judge of the district court of the United Slates

for the northern district of New York, commanding him to
be and appear before this court, either in person or by an
July 20, 1832.
* Sir-I take the liberty to inclose a copy of the clerk's entry oltihe case

"Ex

parte Martha Bradstreet," and to ask if you dissented fiorthe order of the coult
in the case.
I shall be obliged by the return of the paper.
I ainyour obedient servant,
RICHARD PETERS, Reporter, 4'c
Mr JUSTICE BALDWIN.
Philadelphia, 21st July 1832.
Sir-In the case Ex. parte Bradstreet v. Cooper et al., on the motion by ,Mr
Jones for a mandamus to the district court of the northern district of New York,
I dissented from the order of the court in the following respects.
1. In ordering the suits to be reinstated.
2. Requiring the court to permit amendmento to be made.
The ground of my dissent was, that a mandamus was not a proper remedy,
that the dismission of a suit for want of jurisdiction was a final judgment, on
which a writ of error could be brought; but that the supreme court had no power
to issue a mandamus in such a case, the judgment being sttictly a judicial act,
and that though an appellate court could direct amendment, it could only do so
when a case was before them by writ of error or appeal.
It was stated in the affidavit that the court had actually rendered a judgment
ofdismission for the want ofjurisliction, but that theie was no entry of it on tile
record, and that the judge had neglected or refuied ,riapplication to direct it to
be done. I had no doubt that this was a proper case for a rile to show cause
had
wiry a mandamus should not issue directing the entry or such judgment ,1s
been rendered by the court, so as to give the plaintiff the benefit of a writ ol
error. My opinion was confined to this subject matter.
The order of the court, of which you inclosed me a copy in your note of to-day,
which is herewith returned, was not shown to me at the time it was made; and
until to-day I was not aware of its extent on the last point, embracing matters
not taken into consideration by me.
Yours, &c.
HENRY BALDWIN.
RICHARD PETERS, Esquire,
Reporter of Supreme Court

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Ex Parte Bradstreet.]

attorney of this court on the first day of the next January term
of this court, to wit, on the second Monday of January, anno
domini 1833, to show cause, if any he have, why a mandamus
should not be awarded to the said district judge of the northern
district of New York, commanding him,
1. To reinstate, and proceed to try and -adjudge, according
to the law and right of the case, the several writs of right
and the mises thereon joined, lately pending in said court, and
said to have been dismissed by order of said court, between
Martha Bradstreet, demandant, and Apollos Cooper et al.
tenants.
2. Requiring said court to admit such amendments in the
form of pleading, or such evidence as may be necessary toaver
or to ascertain the jurisdiction of said court in the several suits
aforesaid.
3. Or if sufficient cause should be shown by the said judge
on the return of this rule, or should otherwise Appear to this
court, against a writ of mandarius requiring the matters and
things aforesaid to be done by the said judge, then to show
cause i hy a writ of mandamus should not issue from this court,
requiiring the said judge to direct and cause full records of the
judgments or orders of dismission in the several suits aforesaid'
and of the processes of the same to be duly made up and filed,
so as to enable this court to re-examine and decide the grounds
and merits of such judgments or orders upon writs of error,
such records showing upon the face of each what judgments or
final orders dismissing, or otherwise definitively disposing of
said suits, were rendered by the said district court, at whose
instance, upon what grounds, and what exceptions or objec'tions were reserved or taken by said demandant, or on her
behalf, to the judgments or decisions of the said district court
in the premises, or to the motions whereon such judgments or
decisions were found; and what motion or motions, application or applications, were made to said court by the demandant,
or on her behalf; and either granted or overruled by said dis.
trict court, both before and after said judgments or decisions
dismissing or otherwise finally disposing of said suits; especially what motions or applications were made by said demandant or on her behalf to said district court, to be admitted
to amend her counts in the said suits, or to produce evidence

SUPREME COURT.
[Ex Parte Bradstreet.]

[United States v. Phillips.]

to establish the value of the lands, &c. demanded in such
counts, together with all the papers filed, and proceedings had
in said suits respectively.
On consideration whereof, it is now here considered and
ordered by this court, that the rule prayed for be, and the same
is hereby granted, returnable to the first day of the next January term of this court, to wit, on the second Monday of
January, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred
and thirty-three. Per Mr Chief Justice Marshall.

T'r,

UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFF V. ZALEGMAN PHILLIPS.

-After a wilt of error bad been taken out to this court, in an indictment found aud
tried in the circuit court for the eastern district of Pennsylvania, a nolle pro.
sequi was entered in that court, by order of the president of the Ucited States,
and a copy of the same having been filed in the office of the clerk of the supreme court, the court, on motion of the attorney-general, dismissed the
cause.

MR ATTORNEY-GENERAL, of counsel for the plaintiff,
having informed the court that a nolle prosequi had been entered
in this cause in the circuit court of the United States for the
eastern district of Pennsylvania, agreeably to instruction from
the president of the United States, of which a copy has been
filed in the office of the clerk of this Court, and which was
read in open Court, now here moved the Court to dismiss
this cause; on consideration whereof, it is ordered by this
Court, that this cause be, and the same is hereby dismissed.

