JANUARY TERM 1832.

VEITCH AND

Co. v. THE

FARMERs

BA x or

ALEXANDRIA.

Appeal dismissed; the appellees having failed to lodge a transcript of the record
of the cause with the clerk of the court, agreeably to the rules of the court, and
the appeal-bond and security not having been given.

ON motion of Mr Swann, of counsel for the complainant
and appellee in this cause, and a certificate of the clerk of the
circuit court of the United States'for the district of Columbia,
holden in and for the county of Alexandria, stating, "that at
a court continued and held for the said district and county the
24th day of November 1830, the defendants prayed an appeal
from the decree of the court pronounced in this cause to the
next Supreme Court of the United States which was granted,
upon giving bond and security in the sum of two hundred dollars, to be approved by one of the judges of said court; and
further certifying that the said bond and security had not been
given, nor had a transcript of the record been ordered," having
been filed; and the said appellants having failed to lodge a transcript of the record in said cause with the clerk of this Court,
agreeabl, to the rules of this Court: it is now here ordered and
adjudged, that this cause be docketed, and that the said appeal
be, and the same is hereby dismissed.

BOYCE ET AL. V. FELDx GRUNDY.
The transcript of the record showed that-o appeal-bond was taken or approved
by the judge who signed the citation in the cause. The appeil' was dismissed.

ON consideration of the motion made in this cause by Mr
Key, of counsel for the appeliee, on a prior day of the present
term or this Court, to wit, on Saturday the 28th instant, to
dismiss this cause on the ground that it appears from the transcript of the record in this cause, that no appeal-bond was
taken or approved by the judge signing the citation in said
cause, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this Cour that
for the reason aforesaid this appeal from the circuit court of the
United States for the district of West Tennessee be, and the
same is hereby dismissed.
VOL. VI.-4 X

