JANUARY TERM 1832.

DANIEL

F.

STROTHER,

PLAINTIF IN ERROR V. JOHN

B. C.

LUCAS, DEFEND.ANT IN ERROR.
It iqa general rule that evidence by comparison of hands is not admissible when
the witness has had no previous knowledge of the hand-writing, but is called
upon to testify merely from a compariion of hands. There niay be cases
where, from the antiquity of the writing, it is impossible for any living witness
to ,ivear that 1w eversaw the party write. Comparison of hand-writing with
documents in a known hand-writing, have been admitted. But these are extraordinary instances arising from the necesity of the case.
Foreign laws should be proved: the court cannot be charged with knowledge of
foreign laws.
It wa oijected that the claim of the plaintiff in error, which was for two arpens
of ind adjoining the city of St Louis, Missoui, was, from his own showing,
no more than an equitable right, for which an action of ejectment would not
lie. There is in the state of Missouri, an act of the legislature regulating the
action of ejectment, and enumerating various classes of cases of claims to lands
where the action %ill lie, among which is a claim under any French or Spanish
grant io.rrant, or order of survey, which, prior to the 10th of March 1804, had
been surveyed by proper authoity, under the French or Spanish govemnints,
and recorded according to the custom and usages of the country. This would
reem broad enough to embrace the claim in question, and authorise the riglwt
to be tried in an action of ejectment. Quare, if under this law, an ejectment
cr ild be maintained on an equitable title in the courts of the United States, in
the t,ite at Missouri.
Construction of the act of congress of 2 March 1805, entitled 1r an act for ascertaining and adjusting tie titles and claims to land within the territory of Orleans
and the district of Lotisiana," passed March 2, 1805; and of the fourth section
ofan act respectiiig claims of land inthe territories of Orleans and Louisiana,"
passed March 3, 1807.

ERROR to the district court of the United States for the district of Missouri.
This was an action of ejectment in the district court of Missouri, brought by Daniel F. Strother of Kentucky, against
John B. C. Lucas of Missouri, to recover a tract of.land, particularly described in the declaration, containing eighty arpens,
adjoining the city of St Louis. The defendant pleaded the
general issue, and the cause was tried at the September term
1830, when there was a verdict for the defendant, and judgment
rendered thereon; to reverse which, this writ of error is prosecuted. The record contains a bill of exceptions, which sets out
at large all the testimony given at the trial, and the decisions of
the court, which were excepted to.

SUPREME COURT.
[Stroher v. Lucas.]

The premises in dispute consist of two common field lots,
of one by forty arpens each. The common field of St Louis
(of which the premises in question are a part) is a large'tract
of land lying immediately west of the former boundary of the
town of St Louis, and extending for some distance north and
south of it. The lots are parallelograms, of one or more arpens in front, and extending westward to the uniform depth
of forty arpens. The common field was separated from the
town and town lots, by a fence extending the whole length of
the eastern front; there were no division fences, though the
lots were held and cultivated separately, and each proprietor
was bound to keep up the fence in front of his lot. The witnesses, when speaking of these lots, use the term one arpen,
two arpens, &c., meaning always the front of the lot spoken
of, and the depth must be understood to be forty arpens: thus
a lot of one by forty arpens, is called one arpen, &c.
The facts of this cause are these: some time in the year
1772, Don Manuel .Duralde surveyed, apd laid off into lots,
the common field of St Louis. It does not appear, however,
that he was an official surveyor, nor does any authority for the
survey appear. Among the lots laid off were the two mentioned in the plaintiff's declaration. One of these appear to
have been surveyed for Joseph Gamache and the other for
,Rene Kiercereau. These surveys are shown by two documents set forth in the bill of exceptions, as, extracts from the
livre lerrien, purporting to be a registry of the returns made,
by Duralde. In the margin of the registry of the survey for
Kiercereau, are these words: "1798, St Cir, 1 arpen" and
on the margin 6f the registry of the return of Gamache's survey, these words are found: " 1793, St Cir, 1 arpen; and
a memorandum in French, which rendered into English is as
follows: " the name of .said Gamache is Baptiste instead of
There was also some other evidence given at the
Joseph."
trial to establish the fact, that the person for whom the survey was made was not Joseph, but Baptiste or John Baptiste
G'mache; the lots, thus surveyed, adjoined each other, that of
Gamqche being on the north and Kiercereau's on, the south;
the northern lot was bounded on the north by a lot of Bissonet,
alias Bijou, and the southern on the south by a lot of Bequette.
On the 9th January 1773, John Baptiste Gamache, by deed
of exchange, conveyed to Louis Chancillier, the northern half

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Strother v. Lucas.]

of the northern lot; and on the 6th of April 1781, a deed was
executed by one Marie Reneux Robillar, purporting to convey to Louis Chancillier, the southern, or Kiercereau's lot.
In the body of this deed, Rene Kiercereau is stated to be a
subscribing witness, and there is a signature to the deed as
such, alleged to be his. There is also some evidence to show
that the whole name of the grantor was not written by herself;
both these deeds were, however, admitted as evidence. Chancillier cultivated a part of the two lots until his deatlh which
happened in 1785: that is to say, he cultivated the whole front
of the southern lot, and the southern half of the northern lot,
to the extent of a few arpens in depth.
On the Sth of June
17S5, after the death of Chancillier an inventory of his
estate was taken, and among the items is found one arpen and
a half of land in the common fields, which was admitted to
have been regularly sold to, and all the title which Chancillier
had vested in, Madam Chancillier the widow. It does not
appear that any part of the land in question was ever occupied,
possessed or cultivated after the death of Chancillier, by any
body claiming under him. The widow remained about two
years at St Louis, when she intermarried with one Beauchamp;
and she and her husband removed immediately to St Charles
in the same state, and at a distance of about twenty miles from
St Louis, where Beauchamp died. The widow, some time
after, was married to one Basil Laroque, who died in 1828.
The widow of Chancillier, from the time of her marriage with
Beauchamp, until the commencement of this suit, resided in
St Charles, and it does not appear that she claimed the premises in dispute until about the year 1818, and, it was alleged,
not until she was urged to it by others. On the 12th September 1828, she transferred her claim by deed, to George F.
Strother, who conveyed to the plaintiff.
Soon after the death of Chancillier, and some time in the year
1785 or 1786, Hyacinth St Cyr was put into the possession of
the two lots in question by the syndic of the district, the fence
in front not having been kept up, and the lots, therefore, considered as abandoned. St Cyr soon after purchased of Gamache and Kiercereau their claims; he continued to cultivate and
possess both lots in his own right, from the time of his first
entry in 1785 or 1786, and kept up his part of the fence until the

SUPREME COURT.
[Strother v. Lucas.]

whole common field inclosure was destroyed in 1798 or 1799.
In 1S01, Auguste Choteau became the purchaser of the two
lots, at the public sale, of the effects of St Cyr, who was an
insolvent debtor: and in 1810, the two lots were confirmed to
Auguste Choteau by the board of commissioners appointed
for the adjustment of land claims. Choteau had, previously
to the confirmation, conveyed the lots to the defendant, Jean
B. C. Lucas, who has been in the uninterrupted possession
ever since the year 1808. These are the material facts of the
case as they appear by the bill of exceptions.
At the trial, the plaintiff offered sundry depositions to prove
the signature of Kiercereau as witness to the deed of Marie
Reneux Robillar. These depositions were rejected. It appeared that not one of the witnesses ever saw him write or
knew his hand writing; but it having been proved that
Kiercereau had been a ehantre in the Catholic church at St
Louis,. the witnesses had examined the register of the interments and marriages, and the name of Kiercereau appearing
subscribed to some of the entries as witness, they were asked
to deliver their opinion 'as to the signature on the deed by
comparison with the signatures in the registry, not one of
which was proved to have been made by Kiercereau, nor did
it appear to have been a part of his official duty to sign the
register; and it did appear that there were living witnesses who
had seen Kiereereau write and knew his signature; one of whom
(Pierre -Choteau) was actually examined as a witness in the
cause.
On the testimony before the jury, the court, on the prayer
of the defendant, gave the following instruction to wit:
If the jury find from the evidence, that the two confirma
tions to Auguste Choteau, given in evidence by the plaintifh
in this case, are for the same land, and include all the premises
in the declaration mentioned, the plaintiff cannot recover in
this action.
The jury found a verdict for the defendant, upon which judgment was entered by the district court. The plaintiff prosecuted this writ of error.
The case was argued by Mr Benton, with whom was also
MrTaney, for .the plaintiff in error; and by Nr Wirt for the
defendant.

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Strother v. Lucas.]

Mr Justice THoMPsoN delivere( the opinion of the Court.
This case comes up on a writ of error from the district court
of Missouri. It was an action of ejectment for two arpemr ot
land in front and forty arpens in depth, in and adjoining the
city of St Louis in the state of Missouri.
The material question in the case arises upon an instruction
given to the jury upon the pray'er of the defendant below,
who is the defendant here.
Upon the trial no evidence was given on the part of the defendant, and the plaintiff having closed his case, the defendant
moved the court to instruct the jury as foUows: "that if the
jury find from the evidence that the two confirmations made
by the board of commissioners to Auguste Choteau, given in
evidence by the plaintiff in this case, are for the .same lane,
and include all the premises in the declaration mentioned, the
plaintiff cannot recover in this action."
Which instruction
was given, and the jury found a verdict for the defendant.
In the course of the trial certain depositions were offered in
evidence, which, among other things, went to prove the hand
writing of Rene Kiercereau, whose name appeared as a witness
to one of the deeds which had been admitted in evidence (and
who, in the body of the deed, was described as a witness of
assistance), by comparing the hand writing of the witness with
the hand writing of entries made in. a certain register of marriages and interments, alleged to have been made by the witness; of which, however, there was no direct evidence. .The
depositions, so far as they went to prove the hand writing of
the witness to the deed by comparison, were objected to and
overruled by the court, to which exception was taken.
It is a general rule, that evidence by comparison of hands~is
not admissible, where the witness has had no previous knowledge of the hand writing, but is called upon to testify merely
from a comparison of hands. There may be cases, where,
from the antiquity of the writing, it is impossible for any
living witness to swear that he ever saw the party write, comparison of hand writing with documents, known to be in his
hand writing, has been admifted, Butthese are extraordinary
instances, arising from the necesty of the case, and which do
not apply to the one before the court. For there were living
witnesses examined as to the hand writing, and, besides, the

SUPREME COURT.
[Strother v. Lucas.]

deed was received and read in evidence, and the plaintiff had
the full benefit of it. But it is said, the evidence was offered
for the purpose of identifying the winess, and to show that
he was the original grantee of the forty arpens, and the husband of Marie Reneux Robillar; and being named in the deed
as a witness of assistance, it operated by the Spanish and
French law as a conveyance of his own title, the same as if he
had signed the deed as grantor.
There are two answers to be given to the objection made to
the ruling of the judge in the court below, in the view now
presented, In the first place, that was not stated as the purpose for which it was offered, nor was it shown that such was'
the operation of the deed thus witnessed by the Spanish or
French law; and these being foreign laws, should have been
proved. The court cannot be charged with knowledge offoreign
hws. But, in the second place, the record does not show
that the judge was called upon to express any opinion with
respect to the legal effect and operation of the deed, or that the
plaintiff had not the full benefit of its being considered his
deed. And, indeed, it would seem.from the course of the
trial, that it was so considered, or at all events the contrary
does not appear from any question presented to the court on
the subject.
'Wo other points have been made and argued here, which
do not appear to have been raised in the court below, and
which will be very briefly noticed.
It is objected on the part of the defendant that the plaintiff's
claim, even from his own showing, is no more than an equitable right, for which an action of ejectment will not lie.
There is in the state of Missouri an act of the legislature
regulating the action of ejectment, and enumerating various
classes of cases of claims to land, where the action will lie;
among which a claim under any French or Spanish grant,
warrant, or order of survey, which, prior to the 1'Ih of March
1804, had been surveyed by proper authority under the French
or Spanish governments, and recorded according to the customs and usages of the country. Rev. Laws Miss. 343.
This would seem broad enough to embrace the claim now
in question, and authorise the right to be tried in an action
of ejectment in the state courts. How far the courts of the

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Strother v. Lucas.]

United States will adopt such practice,. has come under the
consideration of this court in several cases, Robinson v. Campbell, 3 Wheat. 212; De Ia Croix v. Chamberlain, 12 Wheat.
599; and the court has been strongly inclined against sustaining the action upon a mere equitable title, except perhaps
where, by the statutes of a state, a title which would otherwise be deemed merely equitable, is recognized as a legal title,
or a title which wodld be valid at law. We do not mean, however, to be understood as expressing any opinion upon this
question in the present case. But as the cause has been tried
upon the merits, and so argued here, we think best to decide
upon the merits, without noticing the objection to the forms of
the action.
An objection rather of a novel character has been made on
the part of the plaintiff to the confirmation of the title in Chotcau, because the defendant was one of the commissioners who
confirmed the claim, and had purchased the lots of Choteau,
before the confirmation. On reference to the proceedings of
the commissioners, the allegation does not appear to be founded
in fact: although he was one of the commissioners, he did not
sit with them when this claim was confirmed. But it is a little
singular that the plaintiff should himself give this confirmation
in evidence in support of his own title, and then attempt to
impeach it.
The main question in the cause, however, grows out of the
instructions given by the court to the jury: and to a right understanding of that question, a brief statement of the case as it
stood when the instruction was given becomes necessary.
The plaintiff as the origin of his title gave in.evidence two
certified copies of entries of surveys from what is called the
Livre Terrien. The one, purportingto be an entry of a survey
made for Rene Kiercereau of one by forty arpens: the other,
a survey purporting to have been made for Joseph Gamache
fur the same quantity. On the 29th of January 1773, Gamache conveyed to Louis Chancillier one half of the lot surveyed for him, and on. the 6th-of April 1781, Marie Reneux
Robillar (the wife of Rene Kiercereau) conveyed to Louis Chancillier the lot surveyed for him., Chancillier cultivated a part
of these lots until his death in 1785; after his death, his widow,
t adame Chancillier, became the purchaser of the one and a
VOL. VL-4 W

SUPREME COURT.
[Strother v. Lucas.]

half arpens of land, but did not take possession of or cultivate
tnese lots; nor does it appear that she laid claim to them until
about the year 1818: and in September 1828 she sold the lots
to George F. Strother, who conveyed the same to the plaintiff. Soon after the death of Chancillier, and some time in
the year 1785 or 1786, Hyacinth St Cyr was put into possession of the two lots by the syndic of the district, the fence
in front not having been kept up; and from the proceedings of
the commissioners introduced by the plaintiff himself, it appears that Kiercereati, on the 23d of October 1793, conveyed to
St Cyr his claim to the lot surveyed for him, and on the same
lay Gamache conveyed to St Cyr his claim to the lot surveyed
for him. And by the same proceedings, it appears that at a
public sale in the year 1801 made of the property of St Cyr,
Auguste Ghoteau became the purchaser of these lots, and on
the 11th of January 1808, he conveyed the same to the defendaitt. St Cyr, from the time of his first entry on the lots
in 1785 or 1786, continued to cultivate and possess them, and
keep up his part of the fence until the whole common field
inclosure was destroyed about the year 1798; and Choteau,
from the time of his purchase in 1801 until he sold to the defendant, and the defendant from the time of his purchase, have
continued to occupy the same to the present time, and in the
year 1820 the claim to the two lots was confirmed to Auguste
Choteau by the commissioners.
From this statement of the case, according to the plaintiff's
own showing, there is a regular deduction of title or claim,
from the persons for whom the lots were surveyed to the defendant. But it appears that those persons, Kiercereau and
Gamache, sold their claim twice; in the first place to Louis
Chancillier, under whom the plaintiff claims; and in the second
place to St Cyr, under whom the defendant claims. If these
title papers were to be considered independent of the acts of
congress and the proceedings of the commissioners, the plaintiff. being prior in point of time, would prevail, so far as depended upon the deduction of a paper title, and independent
of the question of possession.
It becomes necessary, therefore, to inquire how far the acts
of congress apply to and affect any part of these title papers;
keeping in mind that it is all the plaintiff's own evidence; he

JANUARY TERM 18,3.
LStrotber v. Luc%,.]

having produced the proceedings before the commissioners, is
not now at liberty to deny the facts therein stated.
No grant has been shown under which the plaintiff sets up
his claim; his title was therefore incomplete, and by the fourth
section of the act of 1805 (3 vol. L. U. S. 653), the person
claiming the land was bound to deliver to the register of the
land office, or recorder of land titles, within the district where
the land lies, a notice in writing stating the nature and extent of
his claim; and also to deliver to the said register or recorder,
for the purpose of being recorded, every grant, order of survey, deed, conveyance or other written evidence of his claim.
And -the law directs that they shall be 'recorded by thq register
or recorder, &c. with a proviso, however, that where the
lands are claimed by virtue of a complete French or Spanish
grant, it shall not be necassary for the claimant to have any
other evidence of his claim recorded, than the original grant
or patent, together with the warrant or order of survey and
the plat; but all the other conveyances or deeds shall be deposited with the register or recorder, to be laid belore the con.missioners. And the act then declares that if -such person
shall neglect to deliver such notice in writing of his claim, or
cause to be recorded such written evidence of the same, all'
his right, so far as the same is derived from the two first sections of the act, shall become void, and forever thereafter
barred. If any doubt should arise whether the original right,
claimed in this case, comes within the two first sections of the
act, that is removed by the act of 1807 (4 vol. L. U. S. 112),

which repeals the proviso to the first section of the act of 1805,
and the power of the commissioners is enlarged. The fourth
section declares that the commissioners shall have full power
to decide, according to the laws and the established usages and
customs of the French and Spanish governments, upon all
claims to land within their respective districts, where theclaim is made by any person or persons, or the legal representative of any person or persons who were, on the 20th of
December 1803, inhabitants of Louisiana, and for a tract not
exceeding the quantity of acres contained in a league square,,
&c. which decision of the commissioners, when in favour of
the claimant, shall be final against the United. States. And
the time is extended for delivering notices and evidences of

SUPREME COURT.
[Strother v. Lucas.]

the claim, hut declaring that the rights of such persons as shall
neglect so doing, shall, so far as they are derived from or
founded on any act of congress, ever after be barred and become void, and the evidences Qf their claims never after admitted as evidence in any court, of law whatever. There is no
evidence that notice of the claim, now set up, was ever given
as required by these laws; or that the deeds from Kiercereau
and Gamache to Chaneillier were ever delivered to be recorded
as required by the law. And Madam Chancillier, having
slept upon this claim for so great a length of time, from the
year 1785 to 1818, there is every reason to conclude she had
abandoped it; and these deeds cannot now, under the provisions of these laws, be received as evidence of any right to be
established under the acts of congress. And it must have
been understood, upon the trial, that the plaintiff sought to
establish his right under these acts of congress, or he would
not have produced the confirmation of the commissioners as
evidence of his right. But having relied upon it in support
of his own claim, he ought not now to be permitted to deny
that it was one properly submitted to the commissioners. Had
he rested his claim upon a title derived from Chancillier, without the aid of the acts of congress, the evidences of his title
would not have been affected by those acts; but the defendant
would, in that ease, have been fully protected by his length of
possession. When, however, a part of the plaintiff's evidence
was the proceedings of the commissioners upon this very
claim, this court must consider the instruction of the judge
as referring only to the effect and operation of the confirma.
tion under the laws in relation to such claims. And in that
view of the case the instruction was perfectly correct.
There is, however, some obscurity in the application of the
instruction given by the court; but from the evidence set out
in the bill of exceptions, we cannot say there was any error.
And the justice and law of the case, growing out of such a
length of possession, are so manifestly with the judgment in
the court below, if we look at the whole evidences on the record; that we feel disposed to give the most favourable interpretation to the instructions of the court. And we the more
readily incline to think the light in which the instruction is
here considered was that in which it was understrod on the

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Str,ther v. Lucas.]

trial, because the counsel for the plaintiff in error has contended on the argument here, that this confirmation enures to the
benefit of the owner of the claim: that the commissioners
decide only the abstract right, as against the United States,
without regard to the person who sets up the claim. And it is
upon this ground only, that the plaintiff would have introduced
in evidence the decision of the commissioners which was directly against his own right; he thereby probably expecting
to destroy the effect of the adverse possession, and make the
possession as well as the confirmation of the commissioners
enure to his benefit. But this view of the case cannot be sustained; and the judgment of the court below must be affirmed.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the district court of the United States for the district
of Missouri, and was argued by counsel; on consideration
whereof, it is adjudged and ordered that the judgment of the
said district court in this cause be, and the same is hereby
affirmed, with costs.

