JANUARY TERM 1832.

PIEnRE GASSIES, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR V. JEAN GASSIEs
LON, DEFENDANT IN ERROR.

B .AL-

The petition filed inthe district court of the United States of Louisiana, alleged,
that the defendant had caused himself to be naturalized an American citizen,
and that he was, at the time of the filing of the petition, residing in the parish
of West Baton Rouge. Held, that this was equivalent to an averment that the
defendant is a citizen of the state of Louisiana.
A citizen of the United States, residing in any state of the union, is a citizen of
that state.

The authoritte-, on the question of the jurisdiction of the courts of the United
States on the allegation of citizenship, in proceedings in those courts, have
gone as far in limiting the jurisdiction of those courts as it would be reasonable and proper to go.

ERROR to the district court of the United States for the
eastern district of Louisiana.
This case came before the district court of the eastern district of Louisiana, on a petition filed in November 1829, by
Jean Gassies-Bailon, for the recovery of the proceeds of certain
goods, left in the hands of his son Pierre Gassies for sale, and
for a balance of an account arising out of the sale of the said
goods, and other transactions between them.
The petitioner described himself in the petition as a resident
of the city of Barsac, and a French citizen of the kingdom of
France, and now in the parish of Baton Rouge, intending to
return to France as soon as the ettlement of his affairs would
permit.
The defendant, Pierre Gassies his son, was described "as
now residing in the parish of West Baton Rouge, where the
said Pierre Gassies caused himself to be naturalized an American citizen."
The defendant appeared to the suit, and after a plea of no
cause of action, which was overruled by the court, the cause
was tried by a jury, and in February 1830, a verdict was rendered for the petitioner for three thousand one hundred dollars,
for which sum the district court entered judgment in his favour.
The defendant prosecuted this writ of error.
The case was argued by Mr Taney for the plaintiff in error;
and by Mr Key for the defendant.
VOL. VI.-4 V

SUPREME COURT.
[Gassies v. Ballon.]

For the plaintiff it was contended, that there was not a sufficient averment in the pleadings, that Pierre Gassies was a
citizen of Louisiana, so as to sustain the jurisdiction of the
district 'court of the United States.
The averment is, that the plaintiff in error, the defendant
below, "is now residing in the parish of West Baton Rouge,
where the said Pierre Gassies caused himself to bp naturalized
an American citizen."
To show that this was dot a sufficient description of the defendant to give the courts of the United States jurisdiction, the
following cases were cited. Coxe's Digest, 434. 3 Dall. 382.
4 Dall. 11. 1 Cranch, 343. 2 Cranch, 9, 126. 5 Crancb,
303. 6 Wheat. 450.
Mr Key, for the defendant in error. • The averment is, that
the defendant in the district court resides in the parish of
West.Baton Rouge, where he has caused himself to be naturalized as an American citizen. He is then a citizen of the
United States; made so by naturalization, and residing in
Louisiana. This makes him a citizen of Louisiana; he became
so by residipg in that state. Cited, 3 Wash. C. C. R. 546.
1 Paine, 580. Gordon's Digest, 270.
Mr Chief Justice MAaS.A&LL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In this case the court is of opinion that the jurisdiction can
be sustained. The defendant in error is alleged in the proceedings to be a citizen of the United States, naturalized in
Louisiana, and residing there. This is equivalent to an averment that he is a citizen of that state. A citizen of the United
States, residing in any state of the union, is a citizen of that
state.
'The authorities on this question have gone far enough; and
this court is not disposed to narrow any more the limitations
which havelbeen imposed by the decided cases. They have
gone as far as it would be reasonable and proper to go. The
judgment of the district court of Louisiana is affirmed.

