COMM'R v. COURT HOLDING CO.
320

Counsel for Parties.

well acidizing, the addition of inhibitors was suggested
immediately and without effort. The great fund of public
knowledge was simply drawn upon the first time the
problem was considered, resulting in the obvious process
described in the Grebe-Sanford patent.
Since we conclude that the Grebe-Sanford patent is
invalid for want of invention, we need not consider
respondent's cross-petition raising questions as to whether
respondent's process infringed the patent.
Affirmed.
COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE v.
COURT HOLDING CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 581.

Argued February 26, 1945.-Decided March 12, 1945.

1. There was evidence to support the finding of the Tax Court that
the transaction in question-formally a sale by stockholders of
property conveyed to them as a "liquidating dividend"-was a sale
by the corporation rather than by the stockholders, which finding
must therefore be accepted by the courts; and the Tax Court's
conclusion that, under § 22 of the Internal Revenue Code, the corporation was taxable on the gain from the sale is sustained. P. 333.
2. That the corporation never executed a written agreement, and that
an oral agreement for the sale of rehlty was unenforcible under the
state law, does not require a different result, in view of the Tax
Court's finding that the executed sale was in substance a sale by the
corporation. P. 334.
143 F. 2d 823, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 323 U. S. 702, to review the reversal of a
decision of the Tax Court, 2 T. C. 531, sustaining the Com-

missioner's determination of a deficiency in income tax.

Assistant Attorney General Samuel 0. Clark, Jr., with
whom Solicitor General Fahy, Messrs. Sewall Key, Harry
Baum, and Miss Helen R. Carloss were on the brief,
for petitioner.

332

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

Mr. Maurice Kay, with whom Mr. Charles M. Tram-

melt was on the brief, for respondent.
MR.

JUSTICE

BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.

An apartment house, which was the sole asset of the respondent corporation, was transferred in the form of a
liquidating -dividend to the corporation's two shareholders. They in turn formally conveyed it to a purchaser who
had originally negotiated for the purchase from the corporation. The question is whether the Circuit Court of
Appeals properly reversed ' the Tax Court's conclusion 2
that the corporation was taxable under § 22 of the Internal Revenue Code' for the gain which accrued from the
sale. The answer depends upon whether the findings of
the Tax Court that the whole transaction showed a sale
by the corporation rather than by the stockholders were
final and binding upon the Circuit Court of Appeals.
It is unnecessary to set out in detail the evidence introduced before the Tax Court or its findings. Despite conflicting evidence, the following findings of the Tax Court
are supported by the record:
The respondent corporation was organized in 1934 solely
to buy and hold the apartment building which was the
only property ever owned by it. All of its outstanding
stock was owned by Minnie Miller and her husband.
1 143

F. 2d 823.
22 T. C. 531.
3Profits from the sale of property are taxable as income under § 22
(a) of the Internal Revenue Code, 26 U. S. C. 22. The Treasury
Regulations have long provided that gains accruing from the sales
of a corporation's assets, in whole or in part, constitute income to it,
but that a corporation realizes no taxable gain by a mere distribution of its assets in kind, in partial or in complete liquidation, however much they may have appreciated in value since acquisition.
§§ 19.22 (a)-19, 19.22 (a)-21, Treasury Regulations 103.

COMM'R v. COURT HOLDING CO.
331

Opinion of the Court.

Between October 1, 1939 and February, 1940, while the
corporation still had legal title to the property, negotiations for its sale took place. These negotiations were
between the corporation and the lessees of the property,
together with a sister and brother-in-law. An oral agreement was reached as to the terms and conditions of sale,
and on February 22, 1940, the parties met to reduce the
agreement to writing. The purchaser was then advised
by the corporation's attorney that the sale could not be
consummated because it would result in the imposition
of a large income tax on the corporation. The next day,
the corporation declared a "liquidating dividend," which
involved complete liquidation of its assets, and surrender of all outstanding stock. Mrs. Miller and her husband surrendered their stock, and the building was deeded
to them. A sale contract was then drawn, naming the
Millers individually as vendors, and the lessees' sister as
vendee, which embodied substantially the same terms and
conditions previously agreed upon. One thousand dollars, which a month and a half earlier had been paid to the
corporation by the lessees, was applied in part payment
of the purchase price. Three days later, the property was
conveyed to the lessees' sister.
The Tax Court concluded from these facts that, despite
the declaration of a "liquidating dividend" followed by
the transfers of legal title, the corporation had not abandoned the sales negotiations; that these were mere formalities designed "to make the transaction appear to be
other than what it was" in order to avoid tax liability.
The Circuit Court of Appeals drawing different inferences from the record, held that the corporation had
"called off" the sale, and treated the stockholders' sale
as unrelated to the prior negotiations.
There was evidence to support the findings of the Tax
Court, and its findings must therefore be accepted by the

334

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

courts. Dobson v. Commissioner,320 U. S. 489; Commissioner v. Heininger,320 U. S. 467; Commissionerv. Scottish American Investment Co., 323 U. S. 119. On the
basis of these findings, the Tax Court was justified in
attributing the gain from the sale to respondent corporation. The incidence of taxation depends upon the substance of a transaction. The tax consequences which arise
from gains from a sale of property are not finally to be
determined solely by the means employed to transfer legal
title. Rather, the transaction must be viewed as a whole,
and each step, from the commencement of negotiations
to the consummation of the sale, is relevant. A sale by
one person cannot be transformed for tax purposes into
a sale by another by using the latter as a conduit through
which to pass title.' To permit the true nature of a transaction to be disguised by mere formalisms, which exist
solely to alter tax liabilities, would seriously impair the
effective administration of the tax policies of Congress.
It is urged that respondent corporation never executed
a written agreement, and that an oral agreement to sell
land cannot be enforced in Florida because of the Statute of Frauds, Comp. Gen. Laws of Florida, 1927, vol. 3,
§ 5779. But the fact that respondent corporation itself
never executed a written contract is unimportant, since
the Tax Court found from the facts of the entire transaction that the executed sale was in substance the sale of the
corporation. The decision of the Circuit Court of
Appeals
is reversed, and that of the Tax Court affirmed.
It is so ordered.

4 Gregory v. Helvering, 293 U. S. 465; Minnesota Tea Co. v. Helvering, 302 U. S. 609; Griffiths v. Commissioner, 308 U. S. 355; Higgins v. Smith, 308 U. S. 473.

