MUSCHANY v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

42

The motion for leave to file a petition for habeas corpus
in this court is denied. Ex parte Abernathy, 320 U. S. 219;
Ex parte Hawk, supra.
So ordered.

MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS is of opinion that the writ of

certiorari should be denied.

MUSCHANY ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
NO. 3 1.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.*

Argued October 18, 1944.-Decided February 5, 1945.
Option contracts for the purchase of land by the United States from
the petitioners provided for payment by petitioners of a 5% commission to the Government's optioning agent and stipulated that
if condemnation proceedings should be instituted the option price
should constitute just compensation. In subsequent condemnation proceedings the Government disaffirmed the contracts. The
district court upheld the contracts; the circuit court of appeals
reversed. On review here, held:
1. The contracts contemplated that the agent's commission
should be added to the vendors' net price. P. 56.
2. Issues of fraud, misrepresentation and duress are not before
this Court, since the trial court made findings supported by substantial evidence against the Government on those issues; the findings were not reversed by the circuit court of appeals; and the
issues were not argued here. P. 57.
3. Evidence that the Government's purchasing agent engaged
in questionable conduct in securing options from other vendors
was not relevant to the issue of the validity of the petitioners' contracts. P. 58.
*Together with No. 32, Andrews et al. v. United States, also on
writ of certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

4. Mere disparity between the original cost of the lands to the
seller and the sale price to the Government does not render the
contracts invalid. P. 58.
5. The provision of § 1 of the Act of July 2, 1940, prohibiting
use of the "cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost system of contracting,"
is applicable to purchases of lands. P. 60.
6. The contracts did not violate the provision of § 1 of the
Act of July 2, 1940, forbidding use (under that section) of the
"cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost system of contracting." P. 61.
7. The contracts were not invalid as contrary to public policy.
P. 64.
(a) The nature of the agent's interest and the contingent character of his fee are not such as to vitiate the contracts. P. 65.
(b) In the absence of a plain indication of public policy
through long governmental practice or statutory enactments, or of
violations of obvious ethical or moral standards, this Court should
not assume to declare Government contracts contrary to public
policy. P. 66.
(c) The provisions of §§ 41, 112 and 113 of the Criminal
Code and of the Act of March 3, 1917, do not manifest a public
policy against the use of contracts of the type here involved. P. 67.
(d) Nor does the action of Congress on subsequent legislation indicate that the contracts are contrary to public policy.
P. 68.
139 F. 2d 661, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 321 U. S. 760, to review the reversal of
judgments in two condemnation proceedings which involved the validity of contracts of the United States for
the purchase of lands.
Mr. William R. Gentry for petitioners in No. 31. Mr.
Samuel M. Watson, with whom Mr. Redick O'Bryan was
on the brief, for petitioners in No. 32.
Mr. Paul A. Freund,with whom Solicitor GeneralFahy,
Assistant Attorney General Littell and Mr. Norman MacDonald were on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.
Writs of certiorari were allowed to petitioners by this
Court in these two cases to review the action of the Cir-

MUSCHANY v. UNITED STATES.
49

Opinion of the Court.

cuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit.1 That
appellate court reversed the action of the District Court of
the Eastern District of Missouri which had upheld the
validity of contracts between petitioners and the United
States for the purchase of land for the Weldon Springs,
Missouri, ordnance plant.' The contracts were pleaded
by petitioners as defendants in eminent domain suits to
establish the proper condemnation award.
The petitions for certiorari were granted, 321 U. S. 760,
because of asserted conflict with United States v. Grace
Evangelical Church, 132 F. 2d 460. Jurisdiction of this
Court rests on § 240 of the Judicial Code.
Under the authority of the Second Supplemental National Defense Appropriation Act of 1941, 54 Stat. 872,
the President approved the Weldon Springs project on
October 17, 1940. Pursuant to this approval, the War
Department claims that it proceeded to acquire the necessary land under the act of July 2, 1917, 40 Stat. 241, as
restricted by the National Defense Act of July 2, 1940, 54
Stat. 712. The statutory authority of the War Department to proceed as it did is not questioned except on the
issue of whether the purchase contracts entered into in
acquiring the needed land violate the first section of the
act of July 2, 1940, which provides:
"Provided further, That the cost-plus-a-percentage-ofcost system of contracting shall not be used under this
section; but this proviso shall not be construed to prohibit
the use of the cost-plus-a-fixed-fee form of contract when
such use is deemed necessary by the Secretary of War."
54 Stat. 713.
The duty to act for the War Department in obtaining
the land lay in the office of the Quartermaster General
and specifically in the Real Estate Branch of that office.
In an effort to expedite the acquisition of the needed land,
1 United States v. Muschany, 139 F. 2d 661.
2 United States v. Certain Land, 46 F. Supp. 921.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

the head of that branch, Colonel R. D. Valliant, contracted
with R. Newton McDowell to act as the agent for the
Government in securing options, on forms approved by
the United States and attached to the employment contract, from the owners for submission to and acceptance
by the United States. Mr. McDowell's compensation for
acting as agent was a "five per cent (5%) commission .. .
to be paid by the vendor." '
The employment of McDowell as agent to secure
options for the United States was confirmed by the War
Department to the Citizens Committee, an informal organization of those who owned property which was needed
for the proposed project. McDowell went to work to
3 The pertinent parts of the McDowell agency contract are:
"3. The Optioner shall diligently endeavor to acquire such options, not only within such time, but at the reasonable value of the
land to be acquired, and subject at all time to the directions of the
Government. The form of option contracted to be executed, and
all terms, covenants and conditions thereof, shall be on the form
approved by the Government, and a copy of which is to be attached hereto and made a part hereof. It is understood that the
Government is to have the exclusive right to take up or reject any
option to any parcel of land optioned by said Optioner hereunder,
except as hereinafter provided.
"4. . . .The Optioner shall procure from the vendors in all cases
where options are accepted on behalf of the United States, an order
to the Kansas City Title and Insurance Company, to prepare certificates of title and deeds and it shall be his responsibility to see
that said certificates of title and deeds are transmitted to the proper
Government official for examination. The certificates of title to be
furnished by The Kansas City Title and Insurance Company will
be on forms similar to the one attached hereto and made a part
hereof and funds to effect closing of purchases by the Title Company will be furnished by the Government to the Title Company in
form of checks payable to each vendor in the amount of the purchase price set forth in the accepted options."
"8. For all services hereunder the compensation of the Optioner
shall consist solely of the five per cent (5%) commission in each purchase, to be paid by the vendor, as more specifically set forth in the
form of option attached hereto and made a part hereof."

MUSCHANY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

49

carry out his contract. He held meetings at which he
explained to the landowners the plan to secure options
and the option form itself. From his explanation the
landowners must have understood that their sale price
would have deducted from it McDowell's commission and
other expenses. This was also the understanding of the
Government, as is shown not only by the documents themselves which were approved by the Government but also
specifically by the testimony of Colonel Valliant. While
McDowell was employed and his commission set by the
Government, it was arranged that McDowell should collect his money from the vendor so that a single voucher
would cover the purchase price and the expenses.
The approved form of option, which was a part of
McDowell's contract with the Government, was used
by McDowell in the particular transactions which are
under examination in these proceedings. The option
accords with the requirements of the McDowell contract
and in addition provides for an agreed valuation at the
option price in case of condemnation. The offer was
accepted by the Governmeit.
4 "Upon exercise of this option by the Government, the undersigned
agrees to pay to R. Newton McDowell a commission of five per cent
(5%) of the gross sales price as full payment for the services of said
R. Newton McDowell in procuring such sale, preparing the deed or
deeds for the conveyance of said land and arranging for settlement and
closing of the transaction.
"Upon furnishing of final certificate of title as above showing title
to be vested in the United States of America, the agreed purchase price
above mentioned will be paid by the Government to the undersigned.
"If for any reason the title to the land is not approved by the
Attorney General, the Government will proceed to acquire the land
by condemnation proceedings instituted in the District Court of the
United States in which said property is located, under a consent verdict
fixing the award at the agreed valuation and in accordance with all
the terms and provisions of this option and will upon filing its petition in such proceedings deposit said agreed purchase price with the
clerk of said court, same to be disbursed by said officer pursuant to the
decree entered in such condemnation proceedings."
637582--46-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

There were a large number of landowners in the required area. Options were obtained from 270, including
the petitioners, and with one exception the options were
accepted by the Government at the optioned price. Almost half of the contracts were closed by acceptance of
deeds and payment of the price. Criticism of the prices
and manner of purchase developed and the War Department repudiated the remaining contracts and turned to
condemnation. The repudiation followed upon the
conclusion among other things that the contracts violated
the statutory provision against the cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost system of contracting, page 52, supra, and
were contrary to public policy because of the contingent
interest of McDowell, which was antagonistic to the
Government.
Petitioners' options were among those accepted only to
be repudiated later, the Government then instituting condemnation proceedings to obtain petitioners' lands. In
the two condemnation proceedings instituted against petitioners, judgments were entered upon a declaration of
taking which vested titles in the United States. 46 Stat.
1421. Thereafter the petitioners here filed their answers
in which they consented to the condemnation and demanded that the price which was fixed in the option,
accepted by the Government, be adopted by the trial court
as just compensation. In reply the Government set up
its repudiation of the contracts on numerous grounds including fraud, such unfairness to the Government because of gross overvaluation that the contract should not
be enforced in equity and good conscience as well as the
disregard of the statutory proscription and public policy,
which was referred to in the preceding paragraph as the
ground for repudiation.
The two cases were decided in favor of the validity of
the contracts and the compensation was fixed at the price

MUSCHANY v. UNITED STATES.
49

Opinion of the Court.

stated in the contract without revaluation. Consequently
there was no occasion for the trial courts to determine
whether valuation measured by just compensation would
have varied from the agreed price. The Government
makes no objection to this manner of determining compensation if the accepted options (contracts) are valid.
Compare Danforth v. United States, 308 U. S. 271, 282.
In one case the findings of fact and a comment appear as a
memorandum opinion in United States v. Certain Land,
46 F. Supp. 921. In the other case, the decree was entered
without separate findings of fact or opinion after adoption
of the memorandum in the first case. We perceive nothing
in the record to distinguish the cases here and shall dispose of them in a single opinion.'
The following determination appears in the opinion of
the trial court for these cases, 46 F. Supp. at page 928:
"There is an absence of any showing that facts were concealed, that misrepresentations were made, or that duress
was used. The price stated in the option contract is not
unconscionable. There is no fraud, actual or constructive,
in this case." I
As a result of this conclusion, the issues of corrupt action
in these two instances are decided contrary to the Gov5 A stipulation consolidates the record of the two cases before us and
a third case, not here involved, United States v. 94.68 Acres of Land,
45 F. Supp. 1016, and authorizes its use "as a part of the record
in each of the two" cases here on review. While the cases have not
been consolidated, one was set on our docket for hearing following the
other, the United States has filed a single brief and petitioners a joint
reply brief.
0 In the Muschany case, the average valuation of eight Government
witnesses, for land upon which the option was taken at $4,500, was
$1,972. The average valuation of seven of respondent's witnesses was
$4,546. 46 F. Supp. 925.
No finding of value appears for the Andrews case but the evidence
shows an average valuation by Government witnesses of $3,114 and by
the vendor and one of his witnesses of $12,000.

56

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

ernment's contention at the trial. No such contention
was made by the Government here. The findings also
stated, at page 925:
"There is no evidence that the option price of forty-five
hundred dollars included the amount the defendants asked
for the land plus McDowell's fee of 5% of sale price, the
Kansas City Title Insurance Company's fee of 11/27 for
examining title, the stamp tax or the recording fee."
We treat the finding and determination as applicable to
both cases.
On appeal the Circuit Court of Appeals found, contrary
to the trial court's finding quoted above, that the commission and expenses were added to the vendors' net price.
We agree with the appellate court. While no direct evidence appears as to the addition of the expenses to the
vendors' net price, it seems clear from the agreement between the Government and McDowell, the option contract, the statements of McDowell at public meetings, the
advice given by the citizens' committee and Colonel Valliant's testimony that it was generally understood that the
option price was to be calculated in this way. Although
Messrs. Muschany and Andrews were not asked specifically as to how they figured their gross prices stated in the
options, both were present at a meeting at which McDowell explained his contract. Since the vendors agreed by
the contract to pay all commissions and expenses, they
must have added these expenses to what they expected to
receive net for their land. Whether the addition was by
precise arithmetical computation or by intuitive action
is immaterial. The mere fact that no separate statement of the items appears in the evidence in these cases
would not overturn the force of this general and definite
understanding.
The Court of Appeals was of the opinion that the contracts with the landowners were cost-plus-a-percentage-

MUSCHANY v. UNITED STATES.
49

Opinion of the Court.

of-cost and therefore invalid. Any further examination by
it of the Government's contention that the contract was
contrary to public policy was unnecessary. Petitioners
here attack the first conclusion. The Government defends
the action of the appellate court on this ground and also
because, independently of the cost-plus prohibition, the
contracts between the landowners and the Government
were contrary to public policy.
Prior to consideration of the two principal issues raised
by the petitioners and respondent in their arguments
before this Court, it seems necessary to refer to the allegations of fraud, unconscionable dealing, bad faith and
misrepresentation on which respondent relied in the trial
court as invalidating petitioners' contracts. As is indicated, ante, pp. 55-56, the trial court specifically found
against the respondent on these issues. Nor did the
Circuit Court of Appeals reverse the trial court's findings. Fraud, misrepresentation and duress were not
argued before this Court. Since the trial court's findings
on these issues are supported by substantial evidence,
it is not for this Court to undertake an independent examination of these issues as such, or under the guise of determining "just compensation." 7 Only recently this
7Petitioners in No. 31 contracted to sell the government certain land
for $4,500, which they had purchased in 1939 for $1,000. The record
indicates that since purchasing this land in 1939, various improvements
had been made. At the time of purchase there was no highway leading
from the main road to the property; a thicket was cleared and a road
constructed which passed over an adjoining piece of property. The
cultivable area of land was increased by clearing timber thickets
from part of the property. A local drainage district surfaced with
rock the river frontage of the property, presumably to stop erosion.
There is also evidence indicating that petitioners in No. 31 made a very
good buy when they purchased this land for $1,000. It was in
the hands of prior owners who had allowed $800 in back taxes to accumulate on the property. As to petitioners in No. 32, they sold land to
the government in 1940 at a price of $12,000 for which they paid $2,250

58

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

Court restated the rules relating to the weight to be given

fact determinations by inferior judicial or quasi-judicial
bodies. UnitedStates v. Bethlehem Steel Corp., 315 U. S.
289, 297-98; Dobson v. Commissioner, 320 U. S. 489, 321
U. S. 231. Therefore this case comes before this Court
without any suggestion of fraud or unfairness such as
would justify holding the contracts invalid. Since these
matters are not before us, we need express no opinion on
this aspect of the case.
The federal district court admitted evidence which indicated that McDowell engaged in questionable conduct
in securing options from sellers other than the petitioners
in the instant case. Such evidence is not relevant to the
issue of the validity of petitioners' contracts. The enforceability of petitioners' contracts is not to be determined or colored by McDowell's alleged dealings with
other parties; these other contracts are not involved in
the instant case and circumstances which might urge a
different result with respect to them must be carefully
eliminated lest petitioners be penalized for illegal acts of
others.
There remains to be considered the question whether
mere disparity between the original cost of these lands to
the seller and the sale price to the government makes the
contracts illegal-whether a contract with the government
is invalid on a mere showing that it was highly profitable
but not unconscionable. Congress' adoption of statutes
providing for the renegotiation of war contracts indicates
that in certain instances the government seeks to recover
abnormally high contract profits. That Congress could
in 1934. The lapse of a six-year period of time, the change in economic
conditions from those of a severe agricultural depression to one of wartime agricultural prosperity furnishes some explanation for the disparity between the price paid for the land in 1934 and the price at
which it was valued in 1940,

MUSCHANY v. UNITED STATES.
49

Opinion of the Court.

have extended the coverage of these provisions to these
contracts is unquestioned; the fact that it did not do so
cannot be disregarded by this Court.'
It goes without saying that in all dealings with the government, contractors and agents alike are under an obligation to deal strictly within the limits of the statutes and
with absolute honesty. Criminal sanctions enforce this
rule. Similarly, the doctrines of fraud, unconscionable
dealing and unjust enrichment are to be strictly applied
to insure fair and honest dealing between the government
and its citizens. These remedies are available whenever
and wherever transgressions take place. However, the
right to determine the policies or methods by which property is to be acquired rests with Congress.
Applicability of cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost clause.
Prior to the present war emergency the Secretary of War
had broad powers to acquire land for military purposes
by purchase at prices deemed reasonable by him or by
condemnation.' There were no restrictions as to the manner in which he should exercise this power to purchase,
but his power to contract for construction work was sharply
limited by statute. 10 These restrictions, if continued,
would have seriously impeded the War Department's
preparation for war. Thereupon Congress passed the act
of July 2, 1940, which removed certain of these prior
statutory restrictions. The act did, however, restrict the
broad powers conferred therein by prohibiting the use of
a Legislation in regard to the renegotiation of war contracts is not
applicable to either of the contracts involved in this case. See Revenue
Act of 1942, ch. 619, 56 Stat. 798, Title VIII-Renegotiation of War
Contracts- 801 (c) (6); Revenue Act of '1943, c. 63, 58 Stat. 21,
78th Cong., 2d Sess., Title VII, § 701 (b), § 403 (c) (6).
9 Act of July 2, 1917, 40 Stat. 241; Act of April 11, 1918, 40 Stat. 518.
10 R. S. § 1136; R. S. § 3734; 10 U. S. C. § 1336; the Walsh-Healey
or Prevailing Minimum Wage Act, 49 Stat. 2036.

60

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost contracts; use of cost-plusa-fixed-fee contracts was expressly approved by the act.'
The question is raised as to whether the prohibition of
cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost contracts applies to the
War Department's purchase of these lands with appropriations for the fiscal year 1941.
We are of the opinion that the first section of the act of
July 2, 1940, see footnote 11, indicates that the purchase of
land by the War Department is subject to the provisions
of that section; therefore, the proviso in the section which
1154 Stat. 712: "That (a) in order to expedite the building up of
the national defense, the Secretary of War is authorized, out of the
moneys appropriated for the War Department for national-defense
purposes for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1941, with or without
advertising, (1) to provide for the necessary construction, rehabilitation, conversion, and installation at military posts, depots, stations,
or other localities, of plants, buildings, facilities, utilities, and appurtenances thereto (including Government-owned facilities at privately owned plants and the expansion of such plants, and the acquisition of such land, and the purchase or lease of such structures, as
may be necessary), for the development, manufacture, maintenance,
and storage of military equipment, munitions, and supplies, and for
shelter; . . . Provided, That the limitations contained in sections 1136
and 3734 of the Revised Statutes, as amended, and any statutory limitation with respect to the cost of any individual project of construction, shall be suspended until and including June 30, 1942, with respect
to any construction authorized by this Act: Provided further, That no
contract entered into pursuant to the provisions of this section which
would otherwise be subject to the provisions of the Act entitled 'An
Act to provide conditions for the purchase of supplies and the making
of contracts by the United States, and for other purposes', approved
June 30, 1.936 (49 Stat. 2036; U. S. C., Supp. V, title 41, secs. 35-45),
shall be exempt from the provisions of such Act solely because of being
entered into without advertising pursuant to the provisions of this
section: Provided further, That the cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost
system of contracting shall not be used under this section; but this
proviso shall not be construed to prohibit the use of the cost-plus-afixed-fee form of contract when such use is deemed necessary by the
Secretary of War."

MUSCHANY v. UNITED STATES.
49

Opinion of the Court.

prohibits use of the cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost system
of contracting must be taken to apply to purchases of
land. The act of July 2, 1917, 40 Stat. 241, 518, authorizing the purchase of land, is limited by the quoted section
from 54 Stat. 712.
Our next inquiry is as to whether the contract with the
vendors, note 4, supra, violates this prohibition against
cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost contracts. Evidently the
proviso was inserted to avoid the abuses which were prevalent before and during the first World War from the Government's guarantee of cost plus a profit to contractors. 2
The purpose of Congress was to protect the Government against the sort of exploitation so easily accomplished under cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost contracts

under which the Government contracts and is bound to
pay costs, undetermined at the time the contract is made
and to be incurred in the future, plus a commission based

on a percentage of these future costs. The evil of such
contracts is that the profit of the other party to the contract increases in proportion to that other party's costs
expended in the performance. The danger guarded
against by the Congressional prohibition was the incentive
12 86 Cong. Rec. 7839, 7841, 7843. The proviso as adopted by
the Senate read: "That what is known as the cost-plus system of

contracting shall not be used under this section." We do not know
the precise reason for the change from this language to the present,
as it took place in conference. The statement from the managers
on the part of the House reads:
"[The conference bill] substitutes for the limitation upon the use of
the cost-plus system of contracting a provision which bars the use
of the cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost system but allows the Secretary
of War, when he deems it necessary, to use the cost-plus-a-fixed-fee
form of contract." H. Rep. No. 2578, 76th Cong., 3d Sess., p. 6.
It might be inferred that the change was made to accord with the
clause allowing cost-plus-a-fixed-fee. Whatever the reason for the
change the final form is less restrictive on the War Department than
the "cost-plus" system which was first forbidden.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

to a government contractor who already had a binding
contract with the Government for payment of undetermined future costs to pay liberally for reimbursable items
because higher costs meant a higher fee to him, his profit
being determined by a percentage of cost. Congress certainly did not intend to prevent a party who was merely
submitting a bid to the Government from computing the
amount of his bid by taking into consideration his costs
and then adding a certain percentage of the cost as his
profit, the resulting sum bid being fixed in amount and
not subject to change. Congress, by changing the original
prohibition in the act from one outlawing any "cost-plus"
system of contracting so as to expressly authorize use of
a "cost-plus-a-fixed-fee" form of contract, indicated it did
not care how the contractor computed his fee or profit
so long as the fee or profit was finally and conclusively
fixed in amount at the time when the Government became bound to pay it by its acceptance of the bid. By
eliminating the risk of loss and permitting the guarantee
of a satisfactory but fixed fee, Congress sought prompt
performance and lower over-all expenditures for contracts
in a rising labor and commodity market than would be
offered by contractors who were compelled themselves to
assume the risk of these unpredictable costs.
The vendors' contract, when read with the McDowell
contract, shows that the Government arranged for a fee
to its agent based on a percentage of the purchase price.
This does not fall within the language of cost-plus-apercentage-of-cost. The offer was to sell to the Government at a fixed, definite price. The Government when it
accepted this offer agreed to pay this set amount and no
more. The contract contains no provision allowing adjustment of price based on possible future indeterminate
expenses. The vice of cost-plus contracts is not inherent
in the vendors' contract. That vice basically is the incen-

MUSCHANY v. UNITED STATES.
49

Opinion of the Court.

tive to the contractor to inflate his future costs to increase
his profits since the Government is already bound to pay
any future undetermined "costs." The amounts to be
paid under petitioners' contracts are not subject to change
by future action of the vendor. The Government knew
the total cost when it became bound on the contract. If
we read the vendors' contract as affected by the McDowell
contract, no cost-plus contract emerges. The United
States knew its agent's fee to the penny when it accepted
the option. It was five per cent of the gross sale price.
Notes 3 and 4 supra. That is to say, the price to be paid for
the land was subject to the approval of the Government.
The War Department could accept or reject the offers
submitted by McDowell. When the War Department
approved each offer, it fixed the precise fee which
McDowell was to receive. The arrangement may have
been improvident from the point of view of the Government. But that question goes to the quality of management by its procurement officers. The fact that the procurement system is improvident obviously does not make
it illegal. Illegality does not emerge from inadequate
supervision of prices by the Real Estate Branch. Such
official failures are not chargeable to a third party dealing with the Government in good faith. It may be unwise for the Government to pay its purchasing agent a
commission which is figured on cost of purchases to the
Government but there is no statutory prohibition. Since
the United States is the purchaser of the land at the option
price, no one can receive cost plus anything. Neither the
vendors nor McDowell agrees to buy from a third party
and sell to the Government at an advance. The vendors'
contract has neither the form nor the vice of a cost-plus
contract. 3
13 But see United States v. Two Acres of Land, 144 F. 2d 207.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

Public policy. The Government advances a further and
distinct argument for affirming the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals that the vendors' contract is invalid.
This is that the contracts of Muschany and Andrews are
invalid as against public policy because of the interest
of McDowell which is antagonistic to the United States
and because of the contingent character of the McDowell
fee which, it is asserted, is paid by the vendors for the
procurement of the contract of sale. We think that it is
inadmissible to view the McDowell contract and the
vendors' contracts as unrelated. On account of the vendors' thorough understanding of McDowell's agency, as
discussed in the preceding division of this opinion, their
contracts must be read as though the McDowell contract
was written into them to show his agency for the
Government.
When this is done, it is clear that the objection to the
vendors' paying a fee contingent on the securing of a Government contract disappears. While in form the McDowell fee and other expenses are paid by the vendors, it was
so handled, as is shown by the finding of the trial court,
that "the several transactions [might be] closed with the
issuance of one, instead of several vouchers, for each tract."
46 F. Supp. at 925-26. The evidence indicates that in
reality McDowell was the Government's agent and that
his commission, although nominally paid by the vendor,
amounted to a payment by the Government to him as
its agent. Contingent fee contracts to secure Government
business for the employer of the recipient have been held
invalid because of their tendency to induce improper
solicitation of public officers and the exercise of political
pressure. Steele v. Drummond, 275 U. S. 199, 206.1' For
14 Cf. Providence Tool Co. v. Norris, 2 Wall. 45; Trist v. Child,
21 Wall. 441, 449-52; Hazelton v. Sheckells, 202 U. S. 71, 78, 79;

Crocker v. United States, 240 U. S. 74, 78-81.

MUSCHANY v. UNITED STATES.
49

Opinion of the Court.

the most part these cases have involved situations where
a would-be contractor has hired a third person on a contingent fee basis to procure for the former a contract with
the Government. But neither the language of these cases
nor the policy behind them applies to the situation involved in this case, where the Government, not the wouldbe contractor, hires an agent for the purpose of soliciting
offers from owners of needed land, the agent's compensation to be contingent on submission of offers acceptable to
the Government. We have here a contingent fee contract
of an entirely different type. It is the Government here
who pays the contingent fee and pays it not for securing
a contract from the Government but a contract for the
Government. The agent acts under the highest legal and
moral responsibilities to his principal, the Government.
There is no place for financial temptation or political
pressure to influence public officials. Tendentious fraud
does not exist in such a contingent contract. It may be
most desirable to pay agents only in the event that they
are successful in accomplishing their purpose. We are
dealing here with public policy. Congress may think that
it is wise to outlaw contingent contracts such as this but
until it does we cannot say that they are contrary to public
policy, any more than we could say cost-plus contracts
are contrary to public policy in the absence of legislation
to that effect.
In reaching the foregoing conclusion on the contingent
fee aspect of the problem, we laid aside consideration,
from the standpoint of public policy, of the fact that the
contingent fee is to be measured by a certain percentage
of the purchase price. We now consider that. The
record gives no satisfactory explanation for the apparently ingenuous action of the Real Estate Branch of the
War Department in paying a commission on the purchase
price to its soliciting agent. Certainly the officers realized
the possibility of and temptation to price inflation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

Necessity for speedy acquisition could not have been their
motive in view of the possibilities of a declaration of
taking. 46 Stat. 1421. It well may be that experience
with condemnation awards and the cost of acquisition by
salaried government servants appeared to foreshadow
more expense than the plan adopted. 5
It may have been the Department's conclusion that its
officers could regulate the offer of prices above the market
by a refusal to accept the options. Colonel Valliant
visited the area to gather information during the purchases. Our inquiry at this point, since corruption is not
shown, is as to whether the likelihood of disadvantage to
the Government is so menacing as to prohibit such contracts regardless of the effect in a particular case.
No other case has come to our attention which has declared that a commission or purchase contract is invalid
on the ground of public policy. Public policy is to be
ascertained by reference to the laws and legal precedents
and not from general considerations of supposed public
interests. Vidal v. Philadelphia,2 How. 127, 197-98. As
the term "public policy" is vague, there must be found
definite indications in the law of the sovereignty to justify
the invalidation of a contract as contrary to that policy.
Twin City Pipe Line Co. v. Harding Glass Co., 283 U. S.
353; Frost & Co. v. Coeur D'Alene Mines Corp., 312 U. S.
38. It is a matter of public importance that good faith
contracts of the United States should not be lightly invalidated. Only dominant public policy would justify
such action. In the absence of a plain indication of that
policy through long governmental practice or statutory
enactments, or of violations of obvious ethical or moral
15 Testimony of Under Secretary Patterson, April 29, 1941, before
the subcommittee of the Committee on Appropriations, House of Representatives, on the Military Establishment Appropriation Bill for
1942, 77th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 106.

MUSCHANY v. UNITED STATES.
49

Opinion of the Court.

standards, this Court should not assume to declare contracts of the War Department contrary to public policy."
The courts must be content to await legislative action.
The Government calls attention to Criminal Code, §§ 41,
112 and 113, and the act of March 3, 1917, 39 Stat. 1106,"7
as indicative of a declared public policy against an agent
of the United States being permitted to have a pecuniary
interest in a contract when that interest would be enhanced in value at an expense to the United States. But
these sections relate to a Government official's representation of the Government in matters involving a private
corporation or firm in which the Government agent has
an interest, or a Government official's receipt of consideration for procuring a contract from the Government
for any person or for any service rendered in relation to
any such contract, or receipt of any salary or supplement
to salary in connection with his government services from
any source other than the Government of the United
States. Thus these sections manifest a legislative intention to bar a government agent from receiving pay from a
third party for assisting that third party to secure a
government contract.
Here the pay was for services rendered to the Government. In form the vendors agreed to pay the compensation but actually the United States was the payor. As
stated above it was merely a convenient way in which the
Government's promise to pay its agent could be met.
16 Cf. Chicago, St. L. & N. 0. R. Co. v. Pullman Car Co., 139 U. S.
79, 89; Baltimore & Ohio S. W. R. Co. v. Voigt, 176 U. S. 498, 513-520.
As examples of contracts which have been held invalid as acts or
contracts against public policy, see Sprott v. United States, 20 Wall.
459; McMullen v. Hoffman, 174 U. S. 639; Burt v. Union CentralLife
Ins. Co., 187 U. S. 362.
17 See also Executive Order 9001, Title I, § 1, Title II, §§ 5, 6, 6 Fed.
Reg. 6787; 50 U. S. C. § 611, n. (appendix).

68

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

It is quite clear that these prohibitions against receipt
of compensation from third parties for securing contracts
were directed at the crime of bribery in its open or subtle
form. We do not see that these statutes manifest a public
policy against the use of a commission system for public
purchases. The change after experience, from the commission system of land purchases to the solicitation of
options by salaried employees of the Government or fixed
fee contractors, indicates administrative judgment of desirability, not administrative condemnation of the legality
of the method. 8
Since it is Congressional enactments which determine
public policy, any doubt which might exist as to the
legality of such an arrangement as was adopted by the
War Department for this and a few other projects is dissipated by the action of Congress on the Military Establishment Appropriation Bill for 1942. Apparently a limitation of commissions on land purchases was omitted
from the bill in accordance with suggestions of the War
Department." The commission type of contract was recognized as appropriate in certain circumstances by the
Naval Appropriation Act of 1942, 55 Stat. 151, 177.20 A
similar provision appears in the Military Appropriation
Act of 1944, § 12, 57 Stat. 347, 369.
18 See the testimony of Under Secretary Patterson, Hearings before the subcommittee of the Committee on Appropriations, House
of Representatives, on the Military Establishment Appropriation
Bill for 1942, 77th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 106.
19 Hearings, supra, n. 18, p. 106; Hearings before the subcommittee of the Committee on Appropriations, United States Senate, 77th
Cong., 1st Sess., on H. R. 4965, pp. 47-48.
20 55 Stat. 177: "SEc. 7. No part of any money appropriated
herein or included under any contract authority herein granted
shall be expended for the payment of any commission on any land
purchase contract in excess of 2 per centum of the purchase price."
21 See also Executive Order No. 9001, Title I, 6 Fed. Reg. 6787, 50
U. S. C. § 611, n. (appendix).

MUSCHANY v. UNITED STATES.
49

BLACK, J., dissenting.

We have considered the Government's contention that
the two per cent limitation means that not more than
two per cent of the estimated price may be paid as a
fixed fee.2" There is nothing that indicates to us that the
provision is not intended to apply to the contracts for
commission on the purchase price of land. This was the
system which the witnesses considered dangerous.
Reversed.
MR.

JUSTICE JACKSON

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, dissenting.
The Constitution provides that the government shall
not take private property for a public purpose without
payment of just compensation. The problem here is
whether the arrangements now before us give rise to enforcible agreements or whether the rights of the parties
are to be governed by the constitutional requirement for
"just compensation" for the land needed by the government. More specifically, the question is whether in the

situation revealed by this record the law demands that
certain property holders shall receive in payment for their
properties amounts which, even in the absence of a finding
of fraud, may well be far in excess of what is "just compensation," thereby imposing an unjust burden on the

public. The Court says "Yes"; I say "No."

The agreements were executed under the following circumstances. A War Department representative agreed
that one McDowell should undertake to secure options
to buy 18,000 acres of land at Weldon Springs, Missouri,
22 See Hearings before the subcommittee of the Committee on Appropriations, House of Representatives, 77th Cong., 1st Sess., on the
Navy Department Appropriation Bill for 1942, pp. 502-504, 505--509;
Hearings before the subcommittee of the Committee on Appropriations, U. S. Senate, 77th Cong., 1st Sess., on the Military Establishment Appropriation Bill for 1942, pp. 46-50, 53.
637582---46--9

70

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

where the government was about to build a war munitions
plant. Under the original agreement, McDowell was to
receive from the government a commission of 5% of the
gross sale price of each parcel of land. Later, McDowell,
presumably with the acquiescence of the contracting officer, adopted a plan under which the landowners executed
options for a price which included the 5% commission.
Thus, the less the cost of the lands the less McDowell
would make; the greater the cost, the greater his
commission.
The ensuing results were, if not inevitable, at least not
surprising. With phenomenal speed McDowell obtained
270 separate options and promptly recommended their
purchase to the Department at the stipulated prices. On
what appears to have been no more than an inescapably
formal examination of these recommendations,' 129 options were accepted and contracts of purchase were executed at an expense of approximately a million dollars to
the government. After an investigation of the whole affair
by the Department of Justice the remaining 149 contracts
were repudiated by the government, condemnation pro'At the time of these purchases, the Real Estate Section of the
Quartermaster Corps was in charge of land procurement. Because
of intensive National Defense activity, this section had under way
purchase of lands for one hundred and eight separate projects, involving between twelve and fifteen thousand individual parcels,
with an estimated value of about fifty million dollars. The Colonel
in charge of the section had at his disposal a staff of three commissioned officers and about forty-one civilian employees. This Army
office, in charge of nation-wide land purchases, was therefore compelled to rely chiefly upon McDowell's valuations.
The Muschany transaction is a typical one. November 29, 1940,
McDowell sent the option agreement to the Washington purchasing
office recommending its "acceptance as a fair value to the United
States." Four days later, December 3, without separate appraisal
of any kind, the Washington contracting officer marked it "accepted." This was the only contract executed with the landowner by
the government, if such an action can be called a contract at all.

MUSCHANY v. UNITED STATES.
49

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

ceedings were filed, and immediate possession of the land
was awarded the government. See 46 Stat. 1421. In the
condemnation proceedings the government sought, as to
the uncompleted McDowell transactions, to pay no more
than just compensation for the properties.
This Court now holds that the government is irrevocably bound by the contracting officer's "acceptance" of
the McDowell options. And while the immediate judgment directly affects only the two pieces of property here
involved, the principles announced uphold the validity of
all the McDowell-procured agreements, even though the
agreed cost stipulated in those agreements might in condemnation proceedings be judicially determined to exceed
just compensation. The District Court in these two cases
did not determine what would be just compensation. It
found no more than that the option agreed price of these
particular lands was not "unreasonably excessive." The
District Court did not find that the agreed prices represent a fair market value; the opinion of the Circuit Court
of Appeals makes it clear beyond doubt that it was impossible to make such a finding. The record shows that
the government will now be required to pay the petitioners
in No. 31 a value, as of 1940, of $4,500.00, or $165.00
per acre, for land which petitioners bought in 1939 for
$1,000.00, or $33.33 per acre. The other petitioners are to
be the beneficiaries of a similar "contract" bounty. For
lands and improvements which cost them $2,250.00 in
1934, or about $24.00 per acre, the government must pay
$12,000.00, or $127.00 per acre.2
2In referring to the District Court's finding that $12,000.00 was
"not an unreasonably excessive valuation of the land in question,"
the Circuit Court of Appeals made this comment:
"The latter finding is perhaps a bit strained, since the substance
of the evidence on behalf of the landowners was simply that the
land had a farm value of only $50 an acre (a total of $4,725), but,
as the landowners' only value-witness put it, 'I think someone from

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

The details of the negotiations between McDowell and
the landowners are set out in the opinion of the Circuit
Court of Appeals and need not be repeated at length here.
Reference is there made to successive recommendations
by McDowell on the same parcel of land for purchase at
$4,500.00, $10,000.00 and $4,900.00. In another instance a
landowner refused the request of one of McDowell's representatives to up the price of his property $50.00 per acre.
Still other illustrative items included in agreed prices, such
as those which the Court today holds invulnerable, are
"one year's loss in salary of each partner" and $6,500.00
for "loss of business."
Nothing but the clearest and most unequivocal Congressional enactment could in my judgment bind the
government to such arrangements. There is no such enactment. And even if Congress had not itself condemned
such contracts as these, conceivably, they are within
the ban of principles previously enunciated by this Court.'
For the terms of McDowell's contract, which was an
integral part of the purchasing system here involved, were
such that the harder he worked to reduce the price of the
land he bought, the less he made. He could not possibly
serve most profitably his own interest and that of the
government at the same time. Only by acting to the
financial disadvantage of the government could he act for
the financial advantage of himself.
It was to protect the public from the dangerous tendency of the excesses of just such contracts that Congress
St. Louis that wants a site would pay as high as $125 an acre [a
total of $11,800] for that ground.'"
s Marsh v. Whitmore, 21 Wall. 178; Michoud v. Girod, 4 How.
503; Providence Tool Co. v. Norris, 2 Wall. 45; Iume v. United
States, 132 U. S. 406; United States v. Carter, 217 U. S. 286;
Crocker v. United States, 240 U. S.74; see also the opinion of District Judge Collet in 45 F. Supp. 1016.

MUSCHANY v. UNITED STATES.
49

BLACK, J., dissenting.

has repeatedly prohibited ' the War Department from
using "the cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost system of contracting." Congress had in 1936 received a report from
a special Senate Committee investigating the munitions
industry pointing out the evils of that contracting system.
That report said: "It is generally admitted that exorbitant
profits were made under cost plus a percentage of cost contracts in the World War. . . . The profiteering under
cost plus a percentage of cost contracts in the last war was
so flagrant that Congress has expressly disapproved of
their use for Government procurement." 5
The same Senator who made this report, initiated a
Senate discussion which led to the immediate adoption
of the prohibition of "cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost" contracting in the Act here involved. He excoriated the costplus-a-percentage system as a "vicious" one.' It was this
4 "As a result of experiences with cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost
contracts during the first World War and the early part of this war,
use of this type of contract is now almost without exception prohibited by statute." C. C. H., War Law Service, Government Contracts, Par. 1015. See Act of June 28, 1940, § 2 (a), 54 Stat. 676,
677; Act of May 2, 1941, § 2 (c), 55 Stat. 148; Act of December 18,
1941, Title II, § 201, 55 Stat. 839. See also Act of June 30, 1941, § 9,
55 Stat. 393, and Act of June 5, 1942, § 13, 56 Stat. 317. The regulations issued by the President under the First War Powers Act of
1941, applicable to the War Department, the Navy Department,
and the United States Maritime Commission, likewise expressly prohibit cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost contracting. Executive Order
No. 9001, December 27, 1941, as amended, Title II, § 6.
5 Senate Report No. 944, 74th Cong., 2d Sess., Special Committee
Investigating the Munitions Industry, Part 4, at page 22.
6 "So there is nothing to hinder the present Secretary of War, or
any other Secretary of War, if he desires to do so, from going back
to the old, vicious cost-plus system which we had during the World
War, when, in one instance which fell under my observation-not
in the War Department, but in the Navy Department-in the construction of naval vessels on a cost-plus 10-percent basis, in making
up the cost base on which the people of the United States were re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
BLAcK, J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

"system of contracting" which Congress forbade, a system
which from its very nature keeps constantly dangling before the eyes of the government's contractual agent hope
of a progressively increasing reward for himself for every
added dollar of cost he can get the government to pay.
This system of contracting was not deemed "vicious" for
lack of "certainty" as to costs, but because of the "certainty" of its inexorable tendency to elevate those costs
to heights which would impose unfair burdens on the
public treasury.
That this was the moving purpose in prohibiting such
a contract system is further shown by the fact that Congress at the same time permitted a "cost-plus-a-fixed-fee
form of contract." Certainly Congress could not thereby
have intended to reduce the scope of its sweeping condemnation of "cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost system." On
the contrary, permission to use the fixed fee contract but
underlines the Congressional intent absolutely to prohibit any War Department agent from using a system of
contracting which would impose upon the government
inflated costs by providing an incentive to pad costs or to
take too rosy a view of value. Whatever other disadvantages the cost-plus-a-fixed-fee system may have, no
quired not only to pay cost but to pay 10 percent additional, one
great shipbuilding company in this country added in the cost of
wines, liquors, and cigars used on the trial trip, and the cost of the
prize given to the lady who christened the ship. They even added in
the cost of representatives maintained by the company in China
and in Japan for the purpose of promoting other business of the
company on the theory that if they secured any outside business it
would reduce the overhead chargeable to the Government." Cong.
Record, Vol. 86, Part 7, p. 7839, 76th Cong., 3d Sess. Another Senator, in the same discussion, said with reference to this system of
contracting, "A man will say, 'I have a return of 10 percent of the
contract price, and I will get what I can under it, pile up expenses,
and so forth.'" Cong. Record, Vol. 86, Part 7, p. 7841, 76th Cong.,
3d Sess.

MUSCHANY v. UNITED STATES.
49

BLACK, J., dissenting.

incentive to raise the cost arises from the fixed fee. But
when a percentage fee or compensation is provided for,
which diminishes or increases in proportion to costs, there
is ample motive or at least tendency to increase such
costs.7
That incentive looms large in the contracts here involved.' It matters not into what form the arrangement
is cast. It is conceded that had this contract required
McDowell himself to buy and take title to the lands, the
arrangement with him would have been within the Congressional prohibition as a "cost-plus-a-percentage-ofcost" contract. But the fact that he did not take title
himself did not lessen the tendency of the contractual
arrangement to invite him to increase his reward by inducing the government to pay a high price for the land.
The difference created by this slight deviation in the
structure of the arrangements did not alter their effect.
The "vicious" tendency at which Congress hit was still
present. The government was still obligated to pay the
7"There are two general classes of 'cost-plus' contracts. One class
is generally known as 'cost-plus-a-percentage' contracts and the
other as 'cost-plus-a-fixed-fee' contracts. They are materially different.
Under those in the first class the fee or profit of the contractor is
made dependent on the cost of the work with the idea that the amount
of the fee will automatically adjust itself to the variations in the cost of
the work resulting from changing conditions and requirements during the life of the job. It is self-evident that under this class of contract it is to the financial interest of the contractor to have the cost of
work run high. Under the second class, the fee is not affected by
variations in costs, but only by changes in the scope of the work.
From this it follows that it is to the advantage of the contractor to
accomplish the work at as low costs as possible." The Law of Government Contracts, Graske (1941) pp. 122-3.
.* The Circuit Court of Appeals in discussing the general tendency of
this system of contracting to increase costs to the government said:
"The probability of that general result in the Weldon Springs transactions is, as we have indicated, quite cogently suggested (and indeed
demonstrated) by the record."

76

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

landowner's price-the land's cost plus a percentage to
McDowell of that cost. Furthermore, the effect, if any,
of McDowell's not taking title himself, was to aggravate
the government's peril, for McDowell did not take any
risks of purchase. To hold that these arrangements axe
legal is to leave unchecked a system of government purchasing which Congress has declared to be incompatible
with the public interest.
It is said that statutes providing for the renegotiation
of war contracts indicate that in "certain instances the
government seeks to recover abnormally high contract
profits." These efforts of Congress to safeguard the public interest against unjust exactions provide no excuse
for the narrow construction the Court today gives the
"cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost" prohibition. They but
emphasize the intention of Congress to devise many safeguards against unfair procurement prices which might
unjustly enrich some few people at the expense of the
many. I should think that if these statutes could be
given any effect, under the circumstances of these cases,
they would but provide an added reason why the government should not be required to pay these landowners more
than "just compensation." Certainly, in the light of the
legislative policy articulated in the renegotiation statutes,
I can see no reason why this Court should work overtime
to shrink the scope of the cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost
statutory prohibition.
The Court's judgment in effect upholds McDowell's
percentage agreement with the government and the option agreements with the landowners made pursuant
thereto. It requires full payment not only of the stipulated land prices but of McDowell's commissions as well.
This is so because the $4,500.00 and $12,000.00 included
the cost of the land plus the percentage of that cost which
was McDowell's commission. Thus, affirmance of the
District Court judgments necessarily must imply that

MUSCHANY v. UNITED STATES.
49

BLACK, J., dissenting.

McDowell's commission agreements with the government
are valid.
The landowners' rights are indissolubly intertwined with
McDowell's.9 Both must stand or fall together on the
validity of McDowell's and the landowners' arrangements with the government. And under those arrangements the government was to pay cost of the lands for
which McDowell negotiated plus five percent of that cost.
This was a "cost-plus-a-percentage of cost system of
contracting." Such an integrated scheme of illegal arrangements should not be permitted to support these
judgments. The government should be required to pay
no more than just compensation for the lands it has
condemned."
9The difficulty of an attempt to segregate McDowell's commissions
from the land costs is indicated by the manner in which the Circuit
Court of Appeals found he computed his commissions. It said that
the option agreements included "commissions upon his own commissions, commissions upon the commissions of the Kansas City Title
Insurance Company for closing the transactions, and commissions
upon the amounts included in the contracts for revenue stamps and
recording fees ....

What particular elements McDowell had fused

into the real estate values recommended by him in any specific transaction were apparently not known to the Quartermaster Department
at the time the contracts were approved." The Muschanys' option
agreement, in Case No. 31, which the government contracting officer
marked "accepted," did not show the amount of McDowell's commission; it showed only that the purchase price was $4,500.00. There
is neither finding nor evidence from which it can be determined what
part of this purchase price, if any, represents McDowell's commission.
In fact, petitioners strangely enough contend that there is no evidence
to show that McDowell is to get any part of the $4,500.00 as a commission. The same situation exists in No. 32.
10 Were this contract not invalid as violating the Congressional prohibition against the cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost system, there would
still remain the question as to whether the government was compelled
to pay more than "just compensation" in these condemnation proceedings. We have never decided that there may not be circumstances
short of those necessary to hold private contracts illegal, under which

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

Finally, I cannot agree to the Court's statement that
this case comes to us "without any suggestion of fraud
or unfairness such as would justify holding the contract
invalid." The Court's opinion states that those who deal
with the government must do so "with absolute honesty," and that "the doctrines of fraud, unconscionable
dealing and unjust enrichment are to be strictly applied
to insure fair and honest dealing between the government and its citizens." In my judgment, we are squarely
confronted with the issues of fraud, unconscionable dealing, and unjust enrichment. I think we should remand
the case to the Circuit Court so that it can pass upon
those questions.
We are not faced here with a situation in which findings,
upon "ample evidence," have been clearly made by a
master and unequivocally and jointly affirmed by both a
District Court and Circuit Court of Appeals-as in United
States v. Bethlehem Steel Co., 315 U. S. 289, 297-9.11 The
District Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals did not,
the government may, in condemnation proceedings, obtain judicial ascertainment of just compensation, despite a single contracting officer's
agreement to pay more, and despite his attempted waiver of the Constitutional provision that the government need only pay "just compensation" for land it takes for public use. Danforth v. United States,
308 U. S. 271, actually decided quite different questions under a different statute, different pleadings, and quite different circumstances. In
condemnation proceedings, Danforth filed a counterclaim seeking
judgment against the government for a price stipulated in an agreement. The government attacked the counterclaim and it was stricken
in District Court on two grounds only: (1) the government had not
consented to the suit; (2) the District Court was without jurisdiction
because more than $10,000 was involved.
11 Even if the Circuit Court of Appeals and the District Court had
both passed upon these questions,-and I do not think they did-it
does not necessarily follow that we would not review them. See City
Bank Farmers Trust Co. v. McGowan, 323 U. S. 594, 600; cf. City
Bank Farmers Trust Co. v. McGowan, 142 F. 2d 599, 601, and 43 F.
Supp. 790, 795-6.

MUSCHANY v. UNITED STATES.
49

BLAcK, J., dissenting.

in the instant case, both concurrently find an absence of
fraud, unconscionableness and unjust enrichment.
The District Court did state in its opinion that there
was ''no fraud," and that the option prices were "not
unconscionable." This finding of the absence of fraud
was, however, unsupported by the primary findings of
fact made by it, and that court's conclusion rested upon
legal assumptions which I think contrary to many decisions of this Court. The same is true of the finding of
unconscionability. As to "unjust enrichment," the District Court made no finding at all, and I believe that its
primary findings of fact are inconsistent with any holding
that these landholders would not be "unjustly enriched"
if the government is forced to pay the option prices.
The Circuit Court of Appeals found it unnecessary to
pass upon either of these questions. It refused to indulge
in what it termed a "judicial paring" of the cost-plus-apercentage-of-cost statutory prohibition, and held the
contracts void under that statute.
The District Court considered that the government's
argument required it affirmatively to find the following
three facts in order to hold that there was fraud: "(1) The
agent's commission was added to the purchase price, (2)
the price did not represent the reasonable market value of
the land, and (3) McDowell misrepresented the value of
the land to Col. Valliant."
As to the latter point, the District Court, in its opinion,
stated that there was no misrepresentation by McDowell.
The Circuit Court of Appeals did not affirm this finding.
It did say that the record and findings of the trial court
left no question "as to the actual good faith of the Quartermaster Department in the matter." But after narrating
certain activities of McDowell, it observed that "These
inconsistencies and disguisings can hardly be commended
as desirable methods of handling expenditures of public
funds. The excuse made by the Quartermaster Depart-

80

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

ment on the trial was its desire to get the job done as
speedily as possible and 'because in one single voucher we
could provide for the payment of a number of different
services.' The result reached in the opinion requires no
further pursuit here of these particular matters." The
Circuit Court's opinion, taken in its entirety, shows beyond doubt that it did not approve the District Court's
findings as to McDowell's dealings.
The District Court further based its conclusion that
there was no fraud on a finding that the agent's commission was not added to the purchase price. This finding
the Circuit Court of Appeals expressly rejected. This
Court has done likewise.
The third and last element which the District Court
had posed concerning the presence of fraud was whether
"the price did not represent the reasonable market value
of the land." Neither the District Court nor the Circuit
Court of Appeals found that the price did represent such
a value. If such a holding has been made at all, it is by
this Court, and I cannot agree to it. The District Court
escaped the necessity of making a finding as to market
value by holding that market value was immaterial since
"The circumstances of this case show that other considerations were in the minds of the parties when the option
was taken. The necessity of national defense had flashed
upon the country. The imminence of the peril was impressive. The land must be acquired at once, without
the delay incident to condemnation. . . . The land was
sought, but more was demanded; immediate 'possession
was essential to its undertaking."
I can accept neither the court's conclusion, nor its reasoning. In. the first place, this Court has long held "market value" to be the proper standard of value in eminent
domain proceedings, and in considering market value it
has consistently been held that landowners are not entitled

MUSCHANY v. UNITED STATES.
49

BLACK, J., dissenting.

to increased amounts because the government announces
that it needs property in a vicinity. United States v.
Miller, 317 U. S. 369, 374, 376-377. Secondly, it is novel
doctrine that when national peril requires the government
to acquire property, the owners are as a matter of law
entitled to get more than market value because more is
"demanded." Furthermore, the court's assumption that
the government was without power to get immediate
possession of the land by condemnation proceedings was
wholly erroneous. Declaration of Taking Act, 46 Stat.
1421.
Having thus put aside consideration of the fair or market value of the property, the court limited itself to finding
that the option prices did not represent an "unreasonably
excessive value." What line marks the distinction between reasonable excess and unreasonable excess does not
appear from the District Court's opinion nor from this
Court's opinion today. An examination of the particular
facts in No. 31 suggests the difficulty of ever ascertaining
what would be an unreasonably excessive value. In 1939,
$800 back taxes had accumulated on 33 acres of land.
The Muschanys bought it, paying the $800 taxes, $100
to the owners, and approximately $100 was allegedly expended for attorney's fee, abstract of title, etc. In 1940,
the "necessity of national defense had flashed upon the
country." The finding of the District Court, which was
not approved by the Circuit Court of Appeals, is apparently approved by this Court today to the effect that
350% profit on this purchase of land is not "unreasonably
excessive," even though the purchaser has held it for only
one year. The only subsidiary finding of fact which the
District Court made to support this phenomenal rise in
value was that in 1937 a road had been built which shortened the distance to St. Louis by about 15 miles. But this
road had been built two years before the Muschanys paid

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
BLAcK, J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

off the back taxes and took the property into their possession. The Court today, however, refers to certain other
events which had occurred, and which are evidently relied
upon as justifying this increase in value from $1,000 to
$4,500 in the short span of a single year. It is clear that
there was one reason, and one reason only, for the $4,500
price. That reason was that the government needed the
land to help win the war and McDowell had a cost-plus-apercentage-of-cost contract.
The Circuit Court of Appeals in discussing this question
of value said, "There is, however, no occasion for us here
to review either the government's or the landowners' evidence as to the value in the two cases. If the value of
the land were the issue to be determined, we might hesitate to reject the trial court's findings in either case, under
Rule 52 (a), Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, 28 U. S.
C. A. following § 723c. But the findings referred to are
not determinative of the issue here being considered."
The Circuit Court of Appeals then went on to decide the
only question that it did decide, which was whether
McDowell's contract with the government violated the
cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost statute.
At the very least, I think the government is entitled to
have the Circuit Court of Appeals pass on the questions
of fraud, unconscionability, and unjust enrichment which
this Court says "are available whenever and wherever
transgressions take place."
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

join in this dissent.

and MR.

JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

