COMMISSIONER v. SMITH.
Opinion of the Court.

COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE
v. SMITH.
ON PETITION FORREHEARING.

No. 371. Decided April 9, 1945.
The conclusion of the Tax Court upon the facts of this case that the
option to purchase stock was effectively exercised and taxable
compensation was received, not when the optionee made his election
and paid the option price, but when the shares were delivered to him,
is supported by the record. P. 696.
Rehearing denied.

ON PETITION

for rehearing of Commissioner v. Smith,

324 U. S. 177.
Mr. ClarenceD. Phillipsfor respondent.
Solicitor General Fahy, Assistant Attorney General
Samuel 0. Clark, Jr., Messrs. Sewall Key and J. Louis
Monarch for petitioner.
Messrs. Roswell Magill and George G. Tyler filed a brief,
as amici curiae,in support of the petition.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Respondent, on motion for rehearing in this Court, for
the first time contends that if he is taxable at all after the
receipt of the option in 1934, he is taxable as of the date in
March, 1938, when he exercised his option, and not when
he received the stock in later years. The only later year
in question is 1939 in which he received a substantial part
of the stock. Before the delivery in 1939 and after the exercise of the option in 1938 there was a substantial increase in the value of the stock. He argues that the tax
should be measured by the value of the stock in 1938 less

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

the option price. Cf. Palmer v. Commissioner,302 U. S.
63, 73.
It is true that respondent gave notice of his exercise of
the option and paid the option price in 1938. But at that
time Western, under its contract with Hawley, had a right
to receive but a part of the stock subject to respondent's
option; its right to the remainder was conditioned upon
its making further payments of Hawley's indebtedness.
Respondent's option contemplated delivery to him of
Hawley's stock only if and when Western became entitled to receive the stock from Hawley. In fact deliveries of the stock were made to respondent upon each occasion only a day or two after Western received it from
Hawley.
The Tax Court found that respondent received compensation "when [he] exercised his option and received
the stock." We take it that the Tax Court regarded fulfillment of the conditions upon the right of Western to
receive the stock, and therefore of the conditions upon
the derivative right of respondent to receive it under his
option, as prerequisite to the effective exercise of the option; and that the taxable compensation to respondent
intended to be secured by the option was in fact received
by respondent as and when the shares of stock were delivered to him, since prior to that time there was no certainty that he would receive the stock. This conclusion
of the Tax Court finds ample support in the record, and
we concur in it.
We do not have before us a case where by the exercise
of an option in one year the taxpayer acquires an unconditional right to receive the stock in a later year. We express no opinion upon the question whether, in such a
case, compensation would be received and would be taxable in the earlier or the later year.
The petition for rehearing is denied.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS adheres to his dissent.

