BARR v. UNITED STATES.

83

Syllabus.

BARR v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CUSTOMS AND PATENT
APPEALS.

No. 287. Argued December 15, 1944-Decided February 5, 1945.
1. The proper rate at which the currency of the invoice of the imported goods here involved should have been converted into United
States dollars under § 522 (c) of the Tariff Act of 1930 was the
"free" rate and not the "official" rate. Pp. 84, 94.
2. Section 522 (c) is not to be construed as authorizing certification
by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York or proclamation by the
Secretary of the Treasury of only one buying rate for a specified
foreign currency. P. 89.
3. Where under § 522 (c) dual buying rates have been certified, that
rate should be used which is in fact applicable to the particular
transaction, and the use of a rate by which the cost of the goods
will be distorted and an inflated value for customs purposes placed
upon them should be avoided. P. 90.
4. The result here reached is not inconsistent with provisions of
§ 402 of the Act which require that the value of imported merchandise shall be the "foreign value or the export value, whichever
is higher." P. 92.
5. The general authority of the Secretary of the Treasury over the
collection of duties on imports and over collectors of customs, and
his authority under § 624 of the Tariff Act of 1930 to make rules
and regulations for carrying out the provisions of the Act, can not
detract from the express authority of the Federal Reserve Bank
of New York under § 522 (c) to determine and certify the buying
rate. P. 92.
6. The function of the Secretary of the Treasury under § 522 (c) in
respect of the publishing of the rates certified by the Bank is
purely ministerial. P. 94.
7. The action of the Secretary of the Treasury in publishing only
one of the rates certified by the Bank, and the decision of the collector pursuant thereto, were subject to judicial review. P. 94.
8. As to the contention that confusion and complexity in administration of the Tariff Act will result if more than one buying rate
may be made applicable to imports from one country, the showing would have to be far more clear than it is here and the meaning

84

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

of the Act much more dubious in order that those administrative
considerations should be given weight in the interpretative process.
P. 94.
143 F. 2d 132, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 323 U. S. 689, to review the reversal of a

judgment of the Customs Court which sustained a protest
of a decision of the collector of customs.
Mr. J. Bradley Colburn, with whom Messrs. Albert
MacC. Barnes and Samuel M. Richardson were on the
brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Ralph F. Fuchs, with whom Solicitor General Fahy,
Assistant Attorney General Rao and Mr. John R. Benney
were on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. Walter S. Logan filed a brief on behalf of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, as amicus curiae.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The question in this case is the proper rate at which the
currency of the invoice of imported goods should be converted into United States dollars under § 522 (c) of the
Tariff Act of 1930. 46 Stat. 739, 31 U. S. C. § 372 (c).
On May 13, 1940, petitioner imported into the United
States at the port of New York certain woolen fabrics
which had been exported from England on May 3, 1940.
Payment for the merchandise was made with pounds
sterling purchased through the Guaranty Trust Co. of
New York in the New York market for cable transfer.
The Collector of Customs converted the pounds sterling
of the invoice into dollars at the "official" rate of exchange
of $4.035. Petitioner claimed that the currency of his
invoice should have been converted at the "free" rate
of exchange of $3.475138. He paid the higher rate and
filed his protest against the Collector's action under § 514

BARR v. UNITED STATES.
83

Opinion of the Court.

of the Tariff Act of 1930. The Customs Court sustained
the protest. 79 Treas. Dec., No. 7, 14. The Court of
Customs and Patent Appeals reversed. 143 F. 2d 132.
The case is here on a petition for a writ of certiorari which
we granted because of the importance of the questions
presented.
The "free" rate and the "official" rate have the following origin.
Sec. 522 (a) of the Tariff Act provides that the value
of foreign coin as expressed in the money of account of
the United States shall be that of the pure metal of such
coin of standard value, and that it shall be estimated
quarterly by the Director of the Mint and proclaimed by
the Secretary of the Treasury. The value of the pound
sterling at all times relevant here was proclaimed to be
.$8.2397. Sec. 522 (b) provides that, for the purpose of
assessment and collection of duties upon merchandise imported into the United States, foreign currency shall be
converted, wherever necessary, into currency of the United
States at the values proclaimed by the Secretary under
§ 522 (a) for the quarter in which the merchandise was
exported. Sec. 522 (b) provides, however, for an exception. That exception is contained in § 522 (c) which
reads as follows:
"If no such value has been proclaimed, or if the value so
proclaimed varies by 5 per centum or more from a value
measured by the buying rate in the New York market at
noon on the day of exportation, conversion shall be made
at a value measured by such buying rate. If the date of
exportation falls upon a Sunday or holiday, then the buying rate at noon on the last preceding business day shall be
used. For the purposes of this subdivision such buying
rate shall be the buying rate for cable transfers payable
in the foreign currency so to be converted; and shall be
determined by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York
and certified daily to the Secretary of the Treasury, who
637582o-46-10

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

shall make it public at such times and to such extent as
he deems necessary. In ascertaining such buying rate
such federal reserve bank may in its discretion (1) take
into consideration the last ascertainable transactions and
quotations, whether direct or through exchange of
other currencies, and (2) if there is no market buying
rate for such cable transfers, calculate such rate from
actual transactions and quotations in demand or time
bills of exchange."
At all times prior to March 25, 1940, the Federal Reserve
Bank of New York pursuant to its authority under § 522
(c) certified daily to the Secretary of the Treasury one
buying rate for the pound sterling. When the present war
between Great Britain and Germany was declared, the
British Government inaugurated a detailed system for
controlling foreign exchange. It required among other
things that all persons resident in the United Kingdom sell
to the British Treasury at prices fixed by it all foreign currency which they were entitled to sell, and prohibited,
with certain exceptions, exportation of foreign currency
from the United Kingdom and the purchase and sale of
foreign currency in the United Kingdom from or to any
person other than an authorized dealer and at prices fixed
by the British Treasury. On March 7, 1940, an Order in
Council, effective March 25, 1940, was issued by the
British Government which provided that certain classes of
merchandise'1 (whiskey, furs, tin, rubber and jute) might
not be exported from the United Kingdom to the United
States and certain other countries except when payment
had been or would be made to persons resident in the
United Kingdom in specified currencies. These currencies
included United States dollars or English pounds pur'Subsequent to the exportation of the merchandise involved in
the present case this Order was amended, effective June 10, 1940, to
include goods of any class or description.

BARR v. UNITED STATES.
83

Opinion of the Court.

chased in the United Kingdom after September 3, 1939,
from an authorized dealer in foreign currency. Authorized dealers sold English pounds only at the rate of
$4.035, prescribed by the British Treasury, from January 8,
1940, to September 30, 1942, when the present case was
tried.
On March 19, 1940, the Federal Reserve Bank of New
York notified the Secretary that because of the order of
the British Government of March 7, 1940, it would certify,
beginning March 25, 1940, two rates for the pound sterling-one to be designated as the "free" rate, the other as
the "official" rate. The latter was the rate fixed by the
British Treasury. On April 15, 1940, the Secretary of
the Treasury notified the collectors of customs that until
further notice he would publish only the "official" rate;
and he directed them to use that rate for assessing and collecting duties on imported merchandise whenever it
varied by more than 5 per cent from the value of the
pound proclaimed by the Secretary under §522 (a) of the
Act.2 T. D. 50134, 75 Treas. Dec. 370, 371, 5 Fed. Reg.

1447.
On the date petitioner exported his merchandise from
England, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York certified
to the Secretary of the Treasury that at noon on that day
the "free" rate for the English pound was $3.475138 and
the "official" rate was $4.035. The Secretary, in accordance with his notification of April 15, 1940, to the collectors of customs published only the "official" rate. T. D.
50146, 75 Treas. Dec. 388. Since the "official" rate varied
by more than 5 per cent from the proclaimed value of
the pound for that quarter, the collector used the "official"
rate in converting pounds into dollars for the purpose of
assessing and collecting duties upon the value of the
2 As we have noted, the value of the pound sterling at all times
pertinent to this case was proclaimed to be $8.2397.

88

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

woolen fabrics. The pounds sterling which petitioner
used in the purchase of the woolens were not obtained
from an authorized dealer as defined in the British order
of March 7, 1940, but, as we have noted, through the
Guaranty Trust Co. of New York in the New York market
for cable transfer. Petitioner claims that the invoice
currency should have been converted at the "free" rate of
$3.475138 as determined and certified by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York for the date of this exportation.
It was noted in United States v. Whitridge, 197 U. S.
135, 142, that the assessment of an ad valorem tax on
imports involved an ascertainment of the true value of the
article taxed as of the date of the tax and that the invoice
price was an approximate measurement of that value. As
pointed out in that case, the history of the statutes shows
a closer approximation to that value as the legislation
has evolved. And the enactments made subsequent to the
decision in the Whitridge case are consistent with that
trend. In the beginning Congress prescribed specific
dollar values of specified coins. Act of July 31, 1789,
§ 18, 1 Stat. 29, 41. Not long after, the President was
given authority to prescribe regulations for computing
duties on imports where the original cost was exhibited
in a depreciated currency of a foreign government. Act
of March 2, 1799, § 61, 1 Stat. 627, 673. In 1873 Congress
provided for an annual estimate by the Director of the
Mint of the full metal value of standard coins of the various nations and a proclamation of the value by the Secretary of the Treasury. Act of March 3, 1873, 17 Stat. 602.
That estimate was required to be made quarterly rather
than annually by the Act of October 1, 1890, § 52, 26 Stat.
567, 624. Then came the Act of August 27, 1894, § 25, 28
Stat. 509, 552, which retained the provision for the estimate and proclamation of metallic values and gave the
Secretary of the Treasury power to order a reliquidation
at a different value on a showing that the value of the

BARR v. UNITED STATES.
83

Opinion of the Court.

invoice currency in United States currency was 10 per
cent more or less than the proclaimed value. United

States v. Whitridge, supra. The procedure under the latter provision depended on a consular certificate to establish the percentage of depreciation of the currency. T. D.
No. 23725, 5 Treas. Dec. 396. There was thus no single
source (and norie at all in the United States) to which
customs officials could look to determine the extent to
which foreign currency had depreciated. Moreover, violent fluctuations in foreign exchange rates had occurred
after the first World War. It was for those reasons that
§ 403 (c) was added to the Emergency Tariff Act of 1921,
42 Stat. 9, 17. See S. Rep. No. 16, 67th Cong., 1st Sess.,
p. 16; H. Rep. No. 79, 67th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 12; Fry &
Friedsam v. United States, 12 Cust. App. 486, 489. And
§ 403 (c) of the 1921 Act now appears as § 522 (c) of the
1930 Act on whose meaning the present decision turns.
This history makes clear the search which has been
made for a measure of the true dollar values of imported
merchandise for customs purposes which was accurate
(see Cramer v. Arthur, 102 U. S. 612, 617) and at the
same time administratively feasible and efficient. The
formula finally selected is dependent on the actual value
of the foreign currency in our own money. The rate for
the foreign exchange with which the imported goods are
purchased is recognized as the measure of value of the
foreign currency; the use of that rate reflects values in
United States currency which are deemed sufficiently
accurate to serve as the measure of the valuation of the
goods for purposes of the ad valorem tax. As noted in
United States v. Whitridge, supra, p. 144, the actual "unit
of cost" conforms with the truth and the meaning of the
invoice.
We would depart from that scheme if we read § 522 (c)
as saying that on a given date only one buying rate for a
specified foreign currency could be certified by the Fed-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

eral Reserve Bank of New York or proclaimed by the
Secretary of the Treasury. Dual or multiple exchange
rates have resulted in recent years from measures for the
control and restriction of foreign exchange and export
transactions.' In the present case the British Government
fixed the "official" rate for the purchase of specified commodities for export. One who purchased woolens for export need not acquire pounds at that rate. A lower rate
was available and was indeed taken advantage of by petitioner when he purchased pounds to pay for the woolens.
If the higher "official" rate is used in the valuation of the
woolens, the cost of the goods will be distorted and an
inflated value for customs purposes will be placed upon
them. Such a result would be quite out of harmony with
the history of these statutes and should be avoided unless
the result is plainly required by the language of § 522 (c).
We do not think it is.
We may assume that the dual or multiple exchange rates
which have emerged were not in contemplation when the
1930 Act was passed. As we have noted, they are parts
of rather recent measures for the control and restriction
of foreign exchange and export transactions. But if Congress has made a choice of language which fairly brings
a given situation within a statute, it is unimportant that
the particular application may not have been contemplated by the legislators. Puerto Rico v. Shell Co., 302
U. S.253, 257; Browder v. United States, 312 U. S.335,
339, and cases cited. Sec. 522 (c) contains no language
indicating that the Secretary of the Treasury has any
function to perform except the publication of any buying
8 See United States Tariff Commission, Regulation of Tariffs in

Foreign Countries by Administrative Action (1934); Twenty-second
Annual Report of the United States Tariff Commission (1938) p. 1;
Southard, Foreign Exchange Practice and Policy (1940) pp. 185
et seq.

BARR v. UNITED STATES.
83

Opinion of the Court.

rate which is certified. The determination of the rate is
left exclusively to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
It alone is given discretion in computing it. The duty of
the Secretary to publish the certified rate is as clear as the
duty of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to determine and certify it. It is true that § 522 (c) speaks only
of the "buying rate." And that use of the singular rather
than the plural is stressed by respondent. We may note,
however, in passing that § 1 of the Revised Statutes, 1
U. S. C. § 1, provides that "words importing the singular
number may extend and be applied to several persons or
things." Beyond that is the fact that we are construing
a provision of a tariff act designed, as we have said, to
value imports for customs purposes by means of the buying rate of the invoice currency. The use of the singular is
not inappropriate since there is a buying rate for the foreign exchange used to purchase each separate import. We
assume that the "official" rate was the all-inclusive rate
and could have been used in payment of exported goods of
all kinds. But § 522 (c) means to us that that buying rate
is to be used which is in fact applicable to the particular
transaction. To look to other transactions for the buying
rate is to make a valuation of a wholly hypothetical import, not a valuation of the actual one before the collector
of customs. Congress could, of course, choose any standard of valuation, for the purposes of the assessment and
collection of duties. But Congress in this situation endeavored to provide a flexible and realistic, not an arbitrary, standard. We can indeed see no difference in
principle between the use of one of several rates for the
currency of a single country and the use of one of several
rates each of which is for the currency of a different country. In each different rates are used to ascertain the value
of specific imports. The language of § 522 (c) read against
the background of these statutes indicates to us that Congress undertook to provide in each case the rate which

92

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

gives the closest approximation to the value in dollars of
the imported merchandise. That purpose would be
thwarted if in the circumstances of this case only one
buying rate could be used in making the valuation of the
goods. The application of the "official" rate to this particular transaction would assume that petitioner imported
whiskey, furs, tin, rubber, or jute rather than woolens.
The valuation of the woolens would be inflated and a
higher duty would be paid than a fair reading of § 522 (c)
necessitates.
It is said that this result runs counter to the provisions
of § 402 of the Act which require that the value of imported merchandise shall be the "foreign value or the
export value, whichever is higher." But it is not apparent how that policy need in any way be defeated or impaired by the use of the "free" rate of exchange where it
is in fact applicable.
Reliance for the other conclusion is also placed on the
general authority given the Secretary over the collection
of duties on imports' and over collectors of customs.5 It
is also pointed out that § 624 of the Tariff Act of 1930 provides that "In addition to the specific powers conferred
by this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized
to make such rules and regulations as may be necessary
to carry out the provisions of this Act." 6 But these
4"The Secretary of the Treasury shall direct the superintendence
of the collection of the duties on imports as he shall judge best." Rev.
Stat. § 249, 19 U. S. C. § 3. And see Rev. Stat. § 248, 5 U. S. C. § 242.
5 "The Secretary of the Treasury shall prescribe forms of entries,
oaths, bonds, and other papers, and rules and regulations not inconsistent with law, to be used in carrying out the provisions of law
relating to raising revenue from imports, or to duties on imports, or
to warehousing, and shall give such directions to collectors and prescribe such rules and forms to be observed by them as may be necessary for the proper execution of the law." Rev. Stat. § 251, 19 U. S. C.,
Supp. III, § 66. And see Rev. Stat. § 161, 5 U. S. C. § 22.
( See. 502 (c) of the Act provides that "It shall be the duty of all
officers of the customs to execute and carry into effect all instructions

BARR v. UNITED STATES.
83

Opinion of the Court.

provisions merely implement authority which is granted
the Secretary and make clear the existence of authority
which otherwise might be only implied. They may not be
used to detract from the express authority given the Federal Reserve Bank of New York under § 522 (c). But this
result is criticized on the ground that it interferes with
the control of foreign exchange, which fiscal function has
been entrusted to the Secretary, not to the Federal Reserve
Bank of New York. It hardly need be pointed out in
reply, however, that our decision, like § 522 (c), is concerned only with the assessment and collection of duties
upon imports through the use of a formula which Congress designed. If the use of that formula under the
changed conditions of these war years is disadvantageous
or undesirable, Congress, of course, can change it. But we
cannot assume that Congress did not mean what it said
when it selected the Federal Reserve Bank of New York
rather than the Secretary to perform a restricted function
on this single phase of the complicated foreign exchange
problem.
Nor is there substance in the argument that the Secretary's action in publishing only one of the rates certified
by the Bank is non-reviewable. Sec. 522 (c) plainly gives
discretion to the Bank to determine the buying rate. And
for the reasons stated we cannot say that only one buying
rate must be determined and certified.' The exercise of
of the Secretary of the Treasury relative to the execution of the revenue laws; and in case any difficulty arises as to the true construction
or meaning of any part of the revenue laws, the decision of the Secretary shall be binding upon all officers of the customs."
I The case is therefore different from Collector v. Richards, 23 Wall.
246. In that case the Director of the Mint certified two values of
the franc-one under the provisions of the Act of March 3, 1873, 17
Stat. 602, the other under the Act of May 22, 1846, 9 Stat. 14. The
Director of the Mint was uncertain whether the latter act had been
repealed by the former. The Secretary proclaimed the rate estimated
by the Director under the 1873 Act. This Court sustained a collection

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

the Bank's discretionary power under § 522 (c) is in the
category of administrative or executive action which this
Court held non-reviewable in Cramer v. Arthur, supra,
and in Hadden v. Merritt, 115 U. S. 25, 27-28. And see
United States v. Bush & Co., 310 U. S. 371, 380. But the
function of the Secretary in this regard is purely ministerial and is to be contrasted to other situations in which
the Secretary is exercising discretionary authority. Cf.
Boske v. Comingore, 177 U. S. 459. The power to publish
the certified rate may not be exercised in such a way as
to defeat the method of assessment which Congress has
provided. Cf. Campbell v. United States, 107 U. S. 407.
Congress has granted judicial review of the decisions of
the collector including the legality of the orders and findings entering into the protested decision. §§ 514-517.
If the decision of the collector contravenes the statutory
scheme and disregards rights which Congress has bestowed, the fact that he acts pursuant to the directions of
the Secretary does not save his decision from review.
Campbell v. United States, supra. We think that the use
of the "official" rate of exchange in assessing and collecting
duties upon these imports transcended the authority of
the collector and of the Secretary and that the "free" rate
of exchange certified by the Federal Reserve Bank of New
York should have been used.
It is finally said that if more than one buying rate may
be made applicable to imports from one country,s confuof duties on that basis, holding that the provisions of the 1873 Act
controlled. Thus the decision was that only one value of the franc
controlled, not that the power of the Secretary to proclaim the value
included the power to choose between two available ones.
8It should be noted that where two or more currencies of different
character circulate in a foreign country the Treasury has provided for
the use of the foreign exchange rate for each, the rate used being the
rate for the currency in which the same or similar merchandise is
usually bought and sold in the ordinary course of trade. See Customs
Regulations of 1937, Art. 776 (a) and (e), as amended by Treas. Dec.
50251 (i) and (j), October 10, 1940.

BARR v. UNITED STATES.
83

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

sion and complexity in administration of the Tariff Act
will result. But that showing would have to be far more
clear and the meaning of the Act much more dubious for
us to give those administrative considerations weight in
the interpretative process.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

dissenting.

As part of the effective financial conduct of the war, the
United Kingdom brought sterling under control by fixing
its exchange value. A limited supply of sterling in foreign
countries presented a special problem. But though that
supply was out of its bounds, Great Britain by various
mechanisms could bring it under control. Apparently it
moved to do so as quickly as economic and political considerations permitted. See the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer on April 9, 1940, in reply to various
questions in the House of Commons, 359 H. C. Deb. (5th
ser. 1940) 461-463. Thus, while "the vast bulk of transactions between sterling and other currencies" was conducted at the exchange rate fixed by the Government, the
supply and demand of sterling abroad created a market.
By virtue of various British restrictions this free sterling
market became increasingly thin. See 26 Fed. Res.
Bull. (July, 1940) 638; The Commercial and Financial
Chronicle, April 20, 1940, Vol. 150, Pt. 2, pp. 2478-79.
Nevertheless, until the British Government completely
clamped down on the use of this free sterling in payment
of exports, it was possible to pay for such exports in sterling purchased at a lower rate than that which the British
Government believed to be a reflection of the true value of
the pound and officially fixed as such.
Plainly enough, a single currency having multiple
values has important bearings upon the flow of goods and

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

upon international economic relations. In the case of
Great Britain, the situation may have not been serious
because, as we noted, free sterling played a relatively
small share in the economic interchange between the two
countries. The "free" rate was employed only in limited
transactions and evidently represented on the part of
Great Britain merely a transitory compromise with circumstances. In short, the official rate was not an unreality. But in the case of some countries, a dual system
of rates of exchange may have decisive economic effects
through highly organized manipulation of exchange, with
all the evils that result from confusion and from depreciated currencies.
To dispose of the case on the assumption that it merely
involves enforcement of a Congressional policy for assuring approximate accuracy in determining the true dollar
value of a particular importation is to throw the significance of the case out of focus. The problem, as I see it,
is whether Congress by § 522 (c) of the Tariff Act of 1930,
46 Stat. 590, 739, 31 U. S. C. § 372 (c), prohibited the
Secretary of the Treasury from safeguarding the public
interest as he did, in relation to dislocations in the money
markets following the outbreak of the war and to their
repercussions both upon our domestic economy and our
international relations. That the Treasury's instruction
to the collectors of customs to assess tariff duties on the
basis of the sterling rate fixed by the British Government
was not an ordinary Treasury order affecting the collection
of revenue is attested by the fact that the instruction was
the result of a conference of the Secretary of State, the
Secretary of the Treasury, the Attorney General and the
Secretary of Agriculture. See New York Times, April 17,
1940, p. 4, col. 5; The Commercial and Financial Chronicle, April 20, 1940, Vol. 150, Pt. 2, pp. 2478-79.
It is not suggested that apart from § 522 (c) this Government could not protect its interests in relation to the

BARR v. UNITED STATES.
83

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

abnormal currency situations precipitated by. the war
through such action as the Secretary of the Treasury here
took. The wide duties of financial supervision possessed
by the Secretary by virtue of his office and the broad powers implied in various provisions of law, see for instance:
5 U. S. C. § 242, 19 U. S. C. § 3; § 624 of the Tariff Act of
1930, 46 Stat. 590, 759, 19 U. S. C. § 1624, and Boske v.
Comingore, 177 U. S. 459, would give him ample warrant
to fix a rate for dollar conversions of foreign currencies on
a uniform basis reflecting the dominant value among
multiple values of a foreign currency and one not subject
to manipulations or influences adverse to our interests.
Withdrawal of this power of the Secretary of the Treasury implies a radical curtailment of his historic and appropriate authority to protect the nation's fiscal interests.
If it chose, of course Congress could so curtail the Secretary's powers. But such an important change in the
executive responsibility for our fiscal affairs ought to
be disclosed through some unequivocal Congressional
expression. To find such destructive force in § 522 (c) is
to attribute to it a potency not designed by Congress. It
is conceded that in the legislation which is now § 522 (c)
Congress was concerned solely with fluctuations in a
single exchange rate, a problem thrown up after the First
World War. And so Congress designated the Federal Reserve Bank as a fact-finding agency to ascertain the most
durable among fluctuating quotations. But multiple
rates for a single currency-with their effects upon the
flow of goods and upon international economic relations
and the opportunities they afford for highly organized
manipulations of exchange-present a totally different
problem. That problem, as is admitted by the Federal
Reserve Bank appearing before us as amicus curiae, was
not at all in the contemplation of Congress. That problem was not dealt with by Congress because it did not con-

98

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

front Congress. As a problem it did not emerge until,
in 1940, the present war confronted the Federal Reserve
Bank and the Secretary of the Treasury with it.
The Federal Reserve Bank and the Secretary of the
Treasury, having different functions, naturally dealt with
it differently. Although, to be sure, § 522 (c) charged
the Federal Reserve Bank with the ascertainment of a
single exchange rate, the Bank naturally enough solved
the dilemma which confronted it when there were two
rates for sterling by reporting both, although the significance of the two rates and the range of their functions
varied greatly. It was not for the Bank to pick only one
rate, for the Bank is merely a reporting agency and not a
policy-making agency. But the determination whether
one of the two rates is the rate, and if so which should
have that fiscal function, is a policy problem, and the Secretary of the Treasury is the agency vested with responsibility for fiscal policies.
For the selection by the Secretary of the Treasury of an
exchange rate in a situation like the one before us has
implications far beyond translating into dollars the value
at which a particular importer actually settled for the
foreign price of his goods. The selection of the governing
rate of exchange in the case of multiple rates affects at
least three very important phases of our international
economic relations. By § 402 of the Tariff Act of 1930,
46 Stat. 590, 708, 19 U. S. C. § 1402, in the assessment of
ad valorem duties it is necessary to ascertain the foreign
market value, which normally means the foreign home
value. Commodities subject to the "official" rate and
commodities available through "free" sterling may well
have an identical home value and yet, according to the
contention of the importer, one valuation would have to be
reached according to § 522 (c) and another according to
§ 402. Again, the Secretary of the Treasury may impose
countervailing duties whenever he finds that imported

BARR v. UNITED STATES.
83

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

goods enjoy a bounty, direct or indirect. Section 303 of the
Tariff Act of 1930, 46 Stat. 590, 687, 19 U. S. C. § 1303.
Such bounties may readily take the form of favorable
exchange rates. An unwarrantably rigid denial to the
Secretary of the determination of an exchange rate which
in substance corresponds to the realities of international
exchange may force him to exercise the penalizing power
of imposing countervailing duties. Finally, foreign exchange rates affect the fruitful use of foreign trade agreements. Section 350 of the Tariff Act of 1930 as amended
by 48 Stat. 943, 19 U. S. C. § 1351 et seq.
All these dangerous potentialities would of course be
irrelevant if Congress had dealt with the problem of multiple rates in a rigid way and put the responsibility upon
the Federal Reserve Bank to select one of such multiple
rates. But the hand of the Government ought not to be
tied too closely where, to put it mildly, the Congressional
purpose has been ambiguously expressed. We cannot
find such purpose from a reading of what Congress has
written. We are hardly justified in assuming that if Congress had addressed itself to this problem it would have
tied the hands of the Secretary of the Treasury and
brought into play all the difficulties that have been indicated in the ascertainment of foreign home value, in the
imposition of countervailing duties, and in embarrassing
the policy of trade agreements. The power of Congress
to pass new legislation is hardly a reason for giving old
legislation a construction that disregards its history and
its context and the unhappy consequences of such
disregard.
Of course, general condemnation of a practice covers any
specific manifestation of it, even though the latter was
"unforeseen" by Congress, Puerto Rico v. Shell Co., 302
U. S. 253, just as a general outlawry of the use of a false
document hits also a use to which the document was not
"ordinarily" put when the legislation was passed. Brow-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Statement of the Case.

324 U. S.

der v. United States, 312 U. S. 335. But these are instances of proper statutory construction quite irrelevant
to the present case. It is one thing for judges not to excise a particular situation from language appropriately
describing a general problem. Judicial interpolation into
a statute of a wholly unrelated problem not envisaged
by Congress is quite another matter. In this case we have
not an unforeseen situation fitting into a general context.
Here we have an unforeseen problem with which Congress
did not deal and yet, by not dealing with it, is said to have
taken away authority theretofore belonging to the Secretary of the Treasury. If the problem itself was not in the
contemplation of Congress, as this problem was not, how
can it be said that Congress legislated concerning that
problem?
The judgment should be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK joins in this dissent.
PRICE, TRUSTEE, ET AL. V. GURNEY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 410. Argued January 12, 1945.-Decided February 5, 1945.
1. The bankruptcy court is without jurisdiction to entertain a Chapter X petition filed on behalf of a corporation (organized under
state law) by stockholders who under the local law are without
authority to institute such proceedings, even though that authority might have been obtainable under the local law by proceedings

in another forum. P. 106.
2. Under the Bankruptcy Act, the power of the bankruptcy court
over the debtor and its property prior to the approval of the peti-

tion does not extend to this situation. P. 106.
142 F. 2d 404, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 323 U. S. 696, to review the reversal of an
order of the bankruptcy court dismissing a petition under
Chapter X of the Bankruptcy Act.

