SHOSHONE INDIANS v. U. S.
Syllabus.

NORTHWESTERN BANDS OF SHOSHONE
INDIANS v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 63. Argued November 10, 13, 1944.-Decided March 12, 1945.
1. The treaty of July 30, 1863 with the Northwestern Bands of the
Shoshone Indians was not a recognition or acknowledgment by
the United States of the Indian title to the lands therein mentioned;
therefore a claim to compensation for the taking of the lands is not
one "arising under or growing out of" the treaty, within the meaning
of the special jurisdictional Act of February 28, 1929, and no
recovery upon such claim can be had under that Act. Pp. 340, 354.
(a) The finding of the Court of Claims that the United States
did not by the treaty intend to recognize or acknowledge Indian
title to the lands, which finding was the basis of that court's decision,
places the burden on petitioners to overthrow the judgment of the
Court of Claims. P. 346.
(b) Recognition of the Indian title is not to be implied from the
grant by the Indians of permission for travel or mining and for
the maintenance of communication and transportation facilities.
P. 348.
(c) That Indian title was recognized by the Fort Laramie treaty
does not require the conclusion that Indian title was recognized by
the treaty of July 30, 1863. P. 349.
(d) Use in the treaty of the word "claim" or the phrase "country
claimed," though designating the area over which the Indians asserted
Indian title, did not constitute acknowledgment by the United States
of such title. P. 350.
(e) The Senate amendment to the treaty-"Nothing herein
contained shall be construed or taken to admit any other or greater
title or interest in the lands embraced within the territories described
in said treaty in said tribes or bands of Indians than existed in them
upon the acquisition of said territories from Mexico by the laws
thereof"--was not intended to give recognition to Indian titles but
only to avoid further complications in the Mexican Cession title
situation. P. 351.

336

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

2. Indian treaties are to be construed according to their tenor; and
their terms are not to be varied by construction in order to avoid
alleged injustices. P. 353.
100 Ct. Cls. 455, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 322 U. S. 721, to review the dismissal of
a proceeding brought in the Court of Claims pursuant
to a special jurisdictional Act.
Mr. Ernest L. Wilkinson, with whom Messrs. Joseph
Chez, John W. Cragun, Herman J. Galloway, Frank K.
Nebeker, CharlesJ. Kappler,and Clinton D. Vernon were
on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Robert E. Mulroney, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Littell and Mr. Norman
MacDonald were on the brief, for the United States.
Messrs. Bert H. Miller, Attorney General of Idaho,
and Grover A. Giles, Attorney General of Utah, filed a
brief on behalf of the States of Idaho and Utah, as amici
curiae, supporting petitioners.
MR. JUSTICE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.
The Northwestern Bands of Shoshone Indians, petitioners here, seek to recover from the United States damages estimated at fifteen million dollars for the taking of
some fifteen million acres of the lands held by these Indians by aboriginal or immemorial title. This title was
alleged by the Indians to have been recognized by the
United States by the treaty between the petitioners and
the United States at Box Elder, Utah Territory, July 30,
1863.
The suit was begun in the Court of Claims against the
United States by the bands pursuant to a special jurisdictional act of Congress of February 28, 1929, 45 Stat.
1407. The Act consented to suit and recovery against the
United States upon the following conditions:

SHOSHONE INDIANS v. U. S.
335

Opinion of the Court.

"That jurisdiction be, and hereby is, conferred upon the
Court of Claims, notwithstanding lapse of time or statutes of linjitations, to hear, adjudicate, and render judgment in any and all claims which the northwestern bands
of Shoshone Indians may have against the United States
arising under or growing out of the treaty of July 2, 1863
(Eighteenth Statutes, page 685-2 Kappler, 848); treaty
of July 30, 1863 (Thirteenth Statutes, page 863 [663]-2
Kappler, 850); Act of Congress approved December 15,
1874 (Eighteenth Statutes, page 291), and any subsequent treaty Act of Congress, or Executive order, which
claims have not heretofore been determined and adjudicated on their merits by the Court of Claims or the
Supreme Court of the United States."1
This Court has jurisdiction to grant certiorari under
the jurisdictional act and ยง 3 (b), Act of February 13,
1925, 43 Stat. 939, as amended by Act of May 22, 1939,
53 Stat. 752; see Colgate v. United States, 280 U. S.43.
Certiorari was granted in view of the importance of the
question in Indian affairs.
The suit is based upon the unlawful taking after the
alleged recognition of the Indian title by the Box Elder
treaty. We do not read the petition as claiming any right
to compensation for the extinguishment of an Indian
aboriginal title, which was unrecognized or unacknowledged by the Box Elder treaty. Under the words of the
jurisdictional act, "arising under or growing out of the
treaty," suit is authorized only for rights acknowledged
by the treaty. The act does not authorize a suit for loss
of Indian tribal rights arising from any other acts of the
United States. If the treaty recognized the aboriginal
other sections of the jurisdictional act are routine and not here
involved. They provide for the employment of attorneys for the
Indians, for set-offs to the United States, for review in this Court,
process, service on and appearance by the Attorney General and the
disposition of sums recovered.
1 The

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

or Indian title, the authority to sue for the taking under
the jurisdictional act is not questioned.2 No claim is
brought forward by petitioners arising under br growing
out of the other treaties, acts or orders which are referred
to in the jurisdictional act. See Northwestern Bands of
Shoshone Indians v. United States, 95 Ct. Cls. 642, 680.1
The Court of Claims determined that the claim for the
taking of land sued upon by petitioners did not grow out
of the Box Elder treaty. Certiorari was sought and
granted to determine whether there was "recognition" or
"acknowledgment" of the Indian title by this treaty
through the language employed or by the act of entering
into a treaty with the Indians as to the use by the United
States of lands which were claimed by the petitioners.
Even where a reservation is created for the maintenance of Indians, their right amounts to nothing more
than a treaty right of occupancy. Shoshone Tribe v.
United States, 299 U. S. 476, 496. Prior to the creation
of any such area, formally acknowledged by the United
States as subject to such right of Indian occupancy, a
certain nation, tribe or band of Indians may have claimed
the right because of immemorial occupancy to roam certain territory to the exclusion of any other Indians and in
contradistinction to the custom of the early nomads to
2

The claim upon which the Indian Affairs Committee of the
House based its recommendation for the passage of an identical jurisdictional act was a claim for the taking of this aboriginal title which
the Committee said was recognized by the Box Elder treaty. H. Rep.
No. 1030, 70th Cong., 1st Sess.; cf. United States v. Creek Nation,
295 U. S. 103, 108.
3 In a similar jurisdictional act for the benefit of the Eastern Shoshone the question of whether their claim arose under or grew out
of a certain treaty was not involved. That treaty, Fort Bridger, July
3, 1868, specifically recognized and set apart a reservation for the
Eastern Shoshone. Art. 11, 15 Stat. 673; 44 Stat. 1349; Shoshone
Tribe v. United States, 299 U. S. 476.

SHOSHONE INDIANS v. U. S.
335

Opinion of the Court.

wander at will in the search for food. United States v.
Santa Fe Pacific R. Co., 314 U. S. 339, 345. This claim
has come to be known as Indian title and is likewise often
spoken of as the right of occupancy. To distinguish from
a recognized right of occupancy, we shall refer to the aboriginal usage without definite recognition of the right by
the United States as Indian title.
Since Johnson v. M'Intosh, 8 Wheat. 543, decided in
1823, gave rationalization to the appropriation of Indian
lands by the white man's government, the extinguishment of Indian title by that sovereignty has proceeded, as
a political matter, without any admitted legal responsibility in the sovereign to compensate the Indian for his
loss. Exclusive title to the lands passed to the white discoverers, subject to the Indian title with power in the
white sovereign alone to extinguish that right by "purchase or conquest." 8 Wheat. at 574, 585-88. The whites
enforced their claims by the-sword and occupied the lands
as the Indians abandoned them. Congress has authorized
suits on the original Indian title but no recovery has as
yet been obtained on that ground. See Coos Bay Indian
Tribe v. United States, 87 Ct. Cls. 143; cf. Wichita
Indians v. United States, 89 Ct. Cls. 378, 413, 414. In
this case, however, the success of the claim depends not
upon proof of the Indian title, which may be admitted,
95 Ct. Cls. at 690, but upon recognition of that title by
the Box Elder treaty. It is quite understandable from the
point of view of both petitioners and Congress that the
Government should limit its submission to suits to claims
under the boundaries if acknowledged by the treaty rather
than to consent to judicial examination of claims for tak4Beecher v. Wetherby, 95 U. S. 517, 525; Buttz v. Northern Pacific R. Co., 119 U. S. 55, 70; Lone Wolf v. Hitchcock, 187 U. S. 553,
564; United States v. Santa Fe Pacific R. Co., 314 U. S. 339, 347.

340

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

ing the unknown area of their possible Indian title.' The
Shoshone Indian title was in Indian country (Act to regulate trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes, 4 Stat.
729; Bates v. Clark, 95 U. S. 204, 206-208) and as a consequence subject to all the uncertainties of definition of
boundaries and difficulties of proof to establish aboriginal
title for tribes with a shifting habitat.
The decisive question in this case is whether it was
intended by the Northwestern Shoshone or Box Elder
Treaty of July 30, 1863, to recognize or acknowledge by
implication the Indian title to the lands mentioned in
that treaty. United States v. Santa Fe Pacific R. Co., 314
U. S. 339, 347. From such recognition or acknowledgment by this treaty would flow a right of occupancy which
would be compensable under the jurisdictional act.
Full findings of fact appear with the opinion below in
Northwestern Bands of Shoshone Indians v. United
States, 95 Ct. Cls. 642. These findings show that petitioners here, the Northwestern bands, were at the time
of the treaty a part of the Shoshone tribe, a nomadic
Indian nation of less than ten thousand people which
roamed over eighty million acres of prairie, forest and
mountain in the present states of Wyoming, Colorado,
Utah, Idaho and Nevada. The group with which we are
concerned was comprised of some fifteen or eighteen hundred persons and claimed, by the treaty, Indian title to
some ten million acres and now claim compensation for
over six million additional acres.
5 Letter of Commissioner Doty, transmitted by Message of the
President, January, 1864, Executive K, L, M, N, 0, 38th Cong., 1st
Sess., p. 17:
"As none of the Indians of this country have permanent places of
abode, in their hunting excursions they wander over an immense
region, extending from the fisheries at and below Salmon falls, on
the Shoshonee river, near the Oregon line, to the sources of that
stream, and to the buffalo country beyond."

SHOSHONE INDIANS v. U. S.
335

Opinion of the Court.

After the discovery of gold in California, white travelers
and settlers began to traverse and people the Shoshone
domain with the result that the Indians' game disappeared from their hunting grounds. Racial relations degenerated to the point that Indian depredations interfered
with travel and settlement, the overland mails and the
new telegraph lines. By the time of the outbreak of the
Civil War the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, the agents
and superintendents of the Shoshone territory were aware
of the misery of the Shoshones, the dangers to the emigrant trains and need for peace to enable travel and settlement in the area. Word had reached the Commissioner
from his superintendent in Utah that the Shoshone were
inclined toward accepting support on limited reservations
and were willing in return to cede their other lands to the
United States.
On July 5, 1862, 12 Stat. 512, 529, Congress appropriated $20,000 for defraying the expenses of negotiating
a treaty with the Shoshones. The appropriation followed
a letter from the Secretary of the Interior to the chairman
of the House Committee on Indian Affairs expressing the
view that the lands owned by the Indians of Utah were
largely unfit for cultivation and that it was "not probable
that any considerable portion of them will be required
for settlement for many years." A special commission
was promptly appointed and instructed that it was not
expected that the proposed treaty would extinguish Indian title to the lands but only secure freedom from
molestation for the routes of travel and "also a definite
acknowledgment as well of the boundaries of the entire
country they claim as of the limits within which they
will confine themselves, which limits it is hardly necessary to state should be as remote from said routes as
practicable."
As the distances made it impracticable to gather the
Shoshone Nation into one council for treaty purposes, the
commissioners made five treaties in an endeavor to clear
637582*-46-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

up the difficulties in the Shoshone country. These are set
out in full in the report below. 95 Ct. Cls. 642. Four will
be found also in 13 Stat. 663, 681, and 18 Stat. 685, 689.
The fifth or Mixed Band treaty was not proclaimed. It
is at 5 Kappler 693. It is sufficient here to say that by
the treaties the Indians agreed not to molest travelers,
stage coaches, telegraph lines or projected railroads.' All
6 Articles II and III from the Fort Bridger treaty of July 2, 1863,

the one first made, will illustrate the type of agreement:
"ARTICLE II. The several routes of travel through the Shoshonee
country, now or hereafter used by white men, shall be and remain
forever free and safe for the use: of the Government of the United
States, and of all emigrants and travellers under its authority and
protection, without molestation or injury from any of the people of
said nation. And if depredations should at any time be committed
by bad men of their nation, the offenders shall be immediately seized
and delivered up to the proper officers of the United States, to be
punished as their offences shall deserve; and the safety of all travellers passing peaceably over said routes is hereby guaranteed by said
nation. Military agricultural settlements and military posts may
be established by the President of the United States along said routes;
ferries may be maintained over the rivers wherever they may be required; and houses erected and settlements formed at such points
as may be necessary for the comfort and convenience of travellers.
"ARTICLE III. The telegraph and overland stage lines having been
established and operated through a part of the Shoshonee country,
it is expressly agreed that the same may be continued without hindrance, molestation, or injury from the people of said nation; and
that their property, and the lives of passengers in the stages, and of the
employees of the respective companies, shall be protected by them.
"And further, it being understood that provision has been made by
the Government of the United States for the construction of a railway from the plains west to the Pacific ocean, it is stipulated by
said nation that said railway, or its branches, may be located, constructed, and operated, without molestation from them, through any
portion of the country claimed by them."
Article IV relating to boundaries in this Fort Bridger treaty reads
as follows:
"It is understood the boundaries of the Shoshonee country, as defined and described by said nation, is as follows: On the north, by

SHOSHONE INDIANS v. U. S.
335

Opinion of the Court.

the Shoshone treaties were similar in form. They show
that the boundaries claimed, as petitioner points out, covered the entire Shoshone country. After all five were negotiated Commissioner Doty was able to trace a rough
map of the Shoshone country to show the Commissioner
of Indian Affairs "the exterior boundaries of the territories claimed by the Shoshonees in their recent treaties, as
also the lines of the country occupied by different portions
of the tribe indicated upon it as correctly as the map will
allow." He had asked Indian Affairs for the map upon
which this information was traced "to show the boundaries
of the country ceded by the Shoshones."
Petitioners' treaty, the Northwestern Shoshone Treaty,
needs to be set out in full for ready examination. It reads
as follows:
"Articles of agreement made at Box Elder, in Utah Territory, this 30th day of July, A. D., 1863, by and between
the United States of America, represented by BrigadierGeneral P. Edward Connor, commanding the military
district of Utah, and James Duane Doty, commissioner,
and the northwestern bands of the Shoshonee Indians,
represented by their chiefs and warriors:
ARTICLE I. It is agreed that friendly and amicable
relations shall be reestablished between the bands of the
Shoshonee Nation, parties hereto, and the United States;
and it is declared that a firm and perpetual peace shall be
henceforth maintained between the said bands and the
United States.
the mountains on the north side of the valley of Shoshonee or Snake
River; on the east, by the Wind River mountains, Peenahpah river,
the north fork of Platte or Koo-chin-agah, and the north Park or
Buffalo House; and on the south, by Yampah river and the Ijintah
mountains. The western boundary is left undefined, there being no
Shoshonees from that district of country present; but the bands now
present claim that their own country is bounded on the west by Salt
Lake." 18 Stat. 685-6.

344

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

ARTICLE II. The treaty concluded at Fort Bridger on
the 2nd day of July, 1863, between the United States and
the Shoshonee Nation, being read and fully interpreted
and explained to the said chiefs and warriors, they do
hereby give their full and free assent to all of the provisions of said treaty, and the same are hereby adopted as
a part of this agreement, and the same shall be binding
upon the parties hereto.
ARTICLE III. In consideration of the stipulations in
the preceding articles, the United States agree to increase
the annuity to the Shoshonee nation five thousand dollars, to be paid in the manner provided in said treaty.
And the said northwestern bands hereby acknowledge to
have received of the United States, at the signing of these
articles, provisions and goods to the amount of two thousand dollars, to relieve their immediate necessities, the
said bands having been reduced by the war to a state of
utter destitution.
ARTICLE IV. The country claimed by Pokatello, for
himself and his people, is bounded on the west by Raft
River and on the east by the Porteneuf Mountains." 13
Stat. 663.
Before it or the other treaties were ratified by the Senate
an additional article was added to each and, except for
one treaty not further involved here, accepted by the
Indians. The addition reads as follows:
"Nothing herein contained shall be construed or taken
to admit any other or greater title or interest in the lands
embraced within the territories described in said treaty
in said tribes or bands of Indians than existed in them
upon the acquisition of said territories from Mexico by
the laws thereof."
The portions of the Fort Bridger treaty of July 2, 1863,
of any possible effect will be found in note 6, supra.
Subsequent to the ratification of the treaties, an act of
Congress was passed on February 23,. 1865, 13 Stat. 432,

SHOSHONE INDIANS v. U. S.
335

345

Opinion of the Court.

for the extinction of Indian title to lands in Utah territory; and another act on July 20, 1867, 15 Stat. 17, for
dealing with hostile Indians and choosing reservations for
Indians dwelling east of the Rocky Mountains. None of
the Shoshones entered into treaties under either of these
acts except the Eastern Shoshones who had signed the
Fort Bridger treaty of July 2, 1863. On July 3, 1868,
they relinquished all claim to United States territory except a reservation in Wyoming of 3,047,730 acres. 15 Stat.
673. No other treaty or other formal arrangement has
been made between petitioners and the United States
dealing with their lands.7
'The Court of Claims summarized the history of the petitioner
bands, subsequent to the Box Elder treaty, in this way:
"After the making of the treaty of July 30, 1863, the plaintiff bands
became widely scattered over northern Utah and Nevada, and southern Idaho. In 1873 the Commissioner of Indian Affairs appointed a
commission to investigate all tribes and bands in this region and to
ascertain their number and the probability of gathering them upon
one or more reservations where they could be more immediately under
the care of the Government. The commission made an exhaustive
investigation into the matters entrusted to it and reported that it had
no trustworthy information as to the number of bands of the Northwestern Shoshone Indians. The commission further reported that a
part of the Northwestern Shoshones under Pocatello (who signed
the treaty of July 30, 1863) had already gone to the Fort Hall (Idaho)
Reservation in southeast Idaho, and that Chief Tav-i-wun-shea, with
his small band, had gone to the Wind River (Wyoming) Reservation
created and set apart under the treaty with the Eastern Shoshones in
1868. Toomontso (who had signed the Northwestern Treaty of July
30) and his band at about this time took up their abode on the Fort Hall
Indian Reservation and an indefinite number of Indians of this band
had gone to the Wind River Reservation. Eventually the remnants
of the bands of Indians under San Pitz (a signer of the Northwestern
Shoshone treaty of July 30), and Saigwits, also a party to the treaty,
were induced by the commission to remove to the Fort Hall Indian
Reservation, thus making a total of 400 Northwestern Shoshone Indians on the Fort Hall Reservation. The commission further reported
that a careful enumeration disclosed that there were 400 North-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

Without seeking any cession or relinquishment of claim
from the Shoshone, except the Eastern Shoshone relinquishment of July 3, 1868, just referred to, the United
States has treated the rest of the Shoshone territory as a
part of the public domain. School lands were granted.
13 Stat. 32; 26 Stat. 216; 28 Stat. 109. National forests
were freely created. 33 Stat. 2307; 34 Stat. 3099, 3198,
3206, 3247, 3251; 37 Stat. 1678. The lands were opened
to public settlement under the homestead laws. Report
of the Commissioner of the General Land Office (1868),
pp. 55, 59, 63; Report of the Commissioner of the General
Land Office (1869), pp. 163, 168, 177. Thus we have
administration of this territory by the United States proceeding as though no Indian land titles were involved.
The Court of Claims examined the evidence adduced
before it and reached the conclusion as a finding of fact
that the United States "did not intend that it [the treaty]
should be a stipulation of recognition and acknowledgement of any exclusive use and occupancy right or title of
the Indians, parties thereto. . . . The treaty was intended to be, and was, a treaty of peace and amity with
stipulated annuities for the purposes of accomplishing
those objects and achieving that end." 95 Ct. Cls. at 676.
This finding molded the opinion and judgment below.
Whether the issue as to acknowledgment by a treaty of
Indian title to land is treated as a question of fact, like
western Shoshone Indians in southern Idaho. In 1873 a number
of Northwestern Shoshone Indians had gathered in northeastern
Nevada and were assigned by the Indian Agent in Nevada to a small
area in that section as a home. On May 10, 1877, this tract, by order
of the President, was withdrawn from sale or settlement and set apart
as a reservation for the Northwestern Shoshone Indians. However,
in 1879, all the Indians thereon, numbering about 300, were removed
to the Western Shoshone Indian Reservation known as the Duck
Valley Indian Reservation in southwestern Idaho and northern
Nevada." 95 Ct. Cls. at 677.

SHOSHONE INDIANS v. U. S.
335

Opinion of the Court.

Indian right to occupancy itself, United States v. Santa
Fe Pacific R. Co., 314 U. S. 339, 345; 53 Stat. 752, or as a
matter of inference to be drawn by the trier of fact from
the treaty and surrounding circumstances or as a conclusion of law to be reviewed by this Court upon the record,
this finding places the burden on petitioners to overthrow
the judgment of the Court of Claims. In reaching its conclusion, the lower court pointed out in its opinion that
nothing in the legislation or official documents, communications or instructions which brought about the treaty
indicated any purpose to recognize Indian title to the
territory over which the Shoshone roamed and hunted.
The commissioners were instructed specifically on July 22,
1862, that they were not expected to negotiate for the extinction of the Indian title but for the security of routes
over the lands and "a definite acknowledgment as well
of the boundaries of the entire country they [the Indians]
claim." The letter shows uncertainty as to the location
of the bands. The Commissioner of Indian Affairs wrote
of the Shoshone nation as roaming Utah and Eastern
Washington but the very indefiniteness of the information
required a statement from the Indians of their claims.
95 Ct. Cls. at 690. The Commissioner learned from the
treaties that the Shoshones claimed territory in Colorado,
Wyoming, Idaho, and Nevada aggregating several times
the acreage in Utah. There apparently was no claim to
Washington land. Commissioner Doty's letter transmitting the map describing the territories claimed by the
Shoshones and telling of the negotiations has nothing that
indicates the possibility of an acknowledgment by the
United States of the Indian title to any of the lands. See
note 5, supra.
An examination of the text of the Northwestern Shoshone Treaty and the others which were entered into with
the other Shoshone tribes, 95 Ct. Cls. 642, shows the commissioners carefully followed their instructions. In the

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

Eastern Shoshone treaty, the boundaries are spoken of "as
defined and described by said nation," note 6, supra. In
the Northwestern Shoshone Treaty the land is described
as "The country claimed by Pokatello, for himself and his
people." In the Western Shoshone treaty permission was
given for mineral prospecting and extracting and the
boundaries are said to define "the country claimed and occupied." The same language is used as to the boundaries
in the Shoshonee-Goship Treaty. This treaty also permitted prospecting for and the working of mines. The
Mixed Bands treaty described a country "claimed by the
said bands" and "as described by them." Nowhere in any
of the series of treaties is there a specific acknowledgment
of Indian title or right of occupancy. It seems to us a reasonable inference that had either the Indians or the United
States understood that the treaties recognized the Indian
title to these domains, such purpose would have been
clearly and definitely expressed by instruction, by treaty
text or by the reports of the treaty commissioners, to their
superiors or in the transmission of the treaties to the
Senate for ratification.
Petitioners argue that the permission from the Indians
for travel or mining and for the maintenance of communication and transportation facilities by the United States
for its citizens imply a recognition by the United States
of the Indian title. They quote, as persuasive, these words
from an early Indian case: "The acceptance of these cessions is an acknowledgment of the right of the Cherokees
to make or withold them." Worcester v. Georgia, 6 Pet.
515, 556. An examination of the circumstances under
which this Court made the just-quoted statement illustrates how inapposite its use by petitioners is to the present question. The quotation was written in explanation
of rights of passage which were granted by the Cherokees
through lands which by other articles of the treaty had
been specifically set apart and solemnly guaranteed to the
Cherokees. 7 Stat. 39. No such specific recognition is in

SHOSHONE INDIANS v. U. S.
335

Opinion of the Court.

the Box Elder treaty. But we see nothing inconsistent
with non-recognition of the Indian title and the insertion
of these provisions against molestation of structures, travelers or exploiters of mineral deposits within the territories. The United States undoubtedly might have asserted,
at the time of the treaty, its purpose to extinguish Indian
title or it might have recognized Indian title or it might, as
the Court of Claims held, have sought only freedom from
hostile acts from roving bands by the commitments for
supplies. The treaties were made in the midst of civil
war and before the outcome of that conflict was clear.
Petitioners urge that recognition of the Indian title was
inferred from the language of the Fort Laramie treaty of
September 17, 1851, 11 Stat. 749, Fort Berthold Indians v.
United States, 71 Ct. Cls. 308; Assiniboine Indian Tribe
v. United States, 77 Ct. Cls. 347, 370; Crow Nation v.
United States, 81 Ct. Cls. 238, 272, and that a different
inference in the present case is inconsistent with those
holdings. Apart from the fact that different treaties are
involved, the circumstances surrounding the execution
of the Fort Laramie treaty indicate a purpose to recognize
the Indian title to the lands described in the Fort Laramie
treaty, which may well have induced the Court of Claims
to reach one conclusion in those cases and another in this.
For example, the instructions to the commissioners for the
Fort Laramie negotiations contained this direction:
"It is- important, if practicable, to establish for each
tribe some fixed boundaries within which they should stipulate generally to reside, and each should agree not to intrude within the limits assigned to another tribe without
its consent." 71 Ct. Cls. 312.
Further in reporting the treaty, it was said:
"The laying off of the country into geographical, or
rather national domains, I regard as a very important
measure, inasmuch as it will take away a great cause of
quarrel among themselves, and at the same time enable
the Government to ascertain who are the depredators,

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

should depredations hereafter be committed." 71 Ct. Cls.
313.
Furthermore, the words of the Fort Laramie treaty are
more apt to express recognition of Indian title than those
of Box Elder. Article 5 says:
"The aforesaid Indian nations do hereby recognize and
acknowledge the following tracts of country, included
within the metes and boundaries hereinafter designated, as
their respective territories, viz: . . ." 71 Ct. Cls. 315.

In consideration of the treaty stipulations the United
States bound itself to furnish supplies and to protect the
Indian nations against depredations by its citizens. Such
distinctions may quite justifiably have led the Court of
Claims to different conclusions than it reached from consideration of the Northwestern Shoshone treaty.8
Petitioners point out that the word "claim" or the
phrase "country claimed" was often used on the frontier
8 We note but consider unimportant, because this issue was not
involved, casual references by this and other courts that the Sho-

shone treaties recognized Indian title in the Shoshones.

Shoshone

Tribe v. United States, 299 U. S.476, 485; United States v. Shoshone
Tribe, 304 U. S. 111, 113; Shoshone Indians v. United States, 85 Ct.
Cls. 331, 335; United States v. Board of Comm'rs, 145 F. 2d 329.
We do not consider the references of the administrators in routine
communications called for in the preparation of this case before the
Court of Claims to the "Shoshoni Indian Reservation (Northwestern
Band)" to the fact that the territory of the Shoshones "was recognized
by the United States" or "set apart for the Shoshone Indians" of
any more weight. Nothing in these statements shows that the attention of the administrators was focused on the problem of recognition or that they reflected a contemporaneous interpretation.
It does not seem important to determine whether the Court of
Claims abused its discretion in refusing admission to such administrative letters written in 1939, relating to preparation for this suit, of
maps of the territory. We have examined the tendered evidence. It
was also seen by the Court of Claims and if it had been admitted
it would have been merely cumulative and could not have changed
the conclusion below.

SHOSHONE INDIANS v. U. S.
335

Opinion of the Court.

to indicate title or right. We know this meaning in mining law and in entries for land patents. The meaning of
the word or phrase depends upon its use. In these treaties
it seems clearly to designate the boundaries over which
the Indians asserted Indian title but that falls short of
acknowledgment of such right by the United States.
Reliance is also placed by petitioners upon the Senate's
amendment to the Treaty 9 as a limitation of the treaty's
recognition of Indian title to the described lands. This
limitation, petitioners argue, demonstrates that no other
limitation was intended. Petitioners take the position
that there was no need for this limitation "if the treaty
recognized no rights." While such a limitation would not
have been needed if the Senate of that day were positive,
on weighing the issue as we now do, that the treaty was ineffective to give any additional color to Indian titles within
or without the Mexican Cession, it is unlikely that the
ratifying body could or did appraise the several possibilities which are now presented. The Senate was well
acquainted with the complications of Mexican land titles
in the Cession. A portion of the lands lay within the
boundaries of the former Mexican state of Alta California.
The Senate was familiar, too, with the legal position of
Indian titles in the Shoshone country outside the Mexican
Cession."0 Such titles were subject to the same rules as
similar titles in all Indian country. 4 Stat. 729. The
' "Nothing herein contained shall be construed or taken to admit
any other or greater title or interest in the lands embraced within
the territories described in said treaty in said tribes or bands of Indians
than existed in them upon the acquisition of said territories from Mexico by the laws thereof."
10 Spanish claims north of the 42nd parallel of latitude, then the
northern line of Mexico, were ceded to the United States in 1821,
Treaties and Other International Acts of the United States, Vol. 3,
p. 3, and Art. 8; Russian claims south of 54o40 ' north latitude in 1824,
op. cit. p. 151 and Art. 3; and the British claims south of north latitude 490 in 1846, op. cit., Vol. 5, p. 3 and Art. III.

352

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

status of Indian titles within the Mexican Cession of 1848,
however, had not then been judicially determined. 1 The
treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo guaranteed the property
rights of Mexicans in the Cession. 2 Controversies over
these rights had caused the rejection by the Senate of
Article X of the treaty as submitted.' The rejection was
followed by the protocol of Queretaro of 1848 in which our
commissioners for the exchange of ratifications undertook
to make explanation to Mexico of the rejection of Article
X." The protocol itself was a subject of House and Senate debate and of extensive diplomatic correspondence. 15
There had been, also, the Act of March 3, 1851, 9 Stat. 631,
"Barker v. Harvey, 181 U. S. 481, Cramer v. United States, 261
U. S. 219; United States v. Santa Fe Pacific R. Co., 314 U. S. 339.
12 5 Treaties op. cit., supra, 207, Art. VIII and IX.
United States
v. O'Donnell, 303 U. S. 501, 504.
13 Treaties and Other International Acts of the United States, Vol.
5, pp. 242, 245:
"ARTICLE X. All grants of land made by the Mexican Government
or by the competent authorities, in territories previously appertaining to Mexico, and remaining for the future within the limits of the
United States, shall be respected as valid, to the same extent that
the same grants would be valid, if the said territories had remained
within the limits of Mexico. ..

."

The explanation in the second article of the protocol was as
follows:
"SEcoND. The American Government by suppressing the Xth article
of the Treaty of Guadalupe did not in any way intend to annul the
grants of lands made by Mexico in the ceded territories. These grants,
notwithstanding the suppression of the article of the Treaty, preserve the legal value which they may possess; and the grantees may
cause their legitimate titles to be acknowledged before the American
tribunals.
"Conformably to the law of the United States, legitimate titles to
every description of property personal and real, existing in the ceded
territories, are those which were legitimate titles under the Mexican
law in California and New Mexico up to the 13th of May 1846, and
in Texas up to the 2d March 1836." Treaties, id., vol. 5, p. 381.
15 See Treaties, id., vol. 5, pp. 380-406, particularly p. 387.
14

SHOSHONE INDIANS v. U. S.
335

Opinion of the Court.

to settle the private land claims in California, after its
admission as a state. Litigation over land titles in the
Mexican Cession had already reached this Court. United
States v. Nye, 21 How. 408; United States v. Bassett, 21
How. 412; United States v. Rose, 23 How. 262. We do not
think that the amendment indicates more than an intention to be sure the new treaty did not add to the complexities of the Mexican Cession title situation. Cf.
Barker v. Harvey, 181 U. S. 481, 491; United States v.
Title Ins. Co., 265 U. S. 472, 484.
Petitioners suggest that in the construction of Indian
treaties we, as a self-respecting nation, hesitate to construe language, which is selected by us as guardian of the
Indians, to our ward's prejudice. "All doubts," say petitioners, "must be resolved in their [the Indians'] favor."
Mr. Justice McLean, concurring in Worcester v. Georgia,
6 Pet. 515 at 582, said, "The language used in treaties with
the Indians should never be construed to their prejudice."
But the context shows that the Justice meant no more
than that the language should be construed in accordance
with the tenor of the treaty." That, we think, is the
rule which this Court has applied consistently to Indian
treaties. We attempt to determine what the parties
meant by the treaty. We stop short of varying its terms
to meet alleged injustices. Such generosity, if any may
be called for in the relations between the United States
and the Indians, is for the Congress. 7
16

This is the meaning of the other cases which are cited by peti-

tioners upon this point, Jones v. Meehan, 175 U. S. 1, 10-12; United
States v. Winans, 198 U. S. 371, 380; Marlin v. Lewallen, 276 U. S.
58, 64; United States v. Payne, 264 U. S. 446, 448-49; Northern
Pacific R. Co. v. United States, 227 U. S. 355, 366; Seufert Bros. Co. v.
United States, 249 U. S. 194, 198; United States v. Shoshone Tribe,
304 U. S. 111, 116; see also Tulee v. Washington, 315 U. S. 681, 684.
17 United States v. Choctaw Nation, 179 U. S. 494, 534-36; Choctaw
Nation v. United States, 318 U. S. 423, 432.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
JACKSON,

J., concurring.

324 U. S.

It seems to us clear from the circumstances leading up
to and following the execution of the Box Elder Treaty
that the parties did not intend to recognize or acknowledge
by that treaty the Indian title to the lands in question.
Whether the lands were in fact held by the Shoshones by
Indian title from occupancy or otherwise or what rights
flow to the Indians from such title is not involved. Since
the rights, if any the Shoshones have, did not arise under
or grow out of the Box Elder treaty, no recovery may be
had under the jurisdictional act.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS is of the view that the judgment
should be reversed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON,

concurring.

MR. JUSTICE BLACK and I think it may be desirable
to state some of the difficulties which underlie efforts to
leave such an Indian grievance as this to settlement by a
lawsuit.
It is hard to see how any judicial decision under such a
jurisdictional act can much advance solution of the problem of the Shoshones. Any judgment that we may render
gives to these Indians neither their lands nor money. The
jurisdictional act provides that the proceeds above attorneys' fees shall "be deposited in the Treasury of the
United States to the credit of the Indians" at 4 per cent interest and "shall be subject to appropriation by Congress
only for the health, education, and industrial advancement of said Indians." The only cash payment is attorneys' fees. Section 7 provides that the Court of Claims
shall determine a reasonable fee, not to exceed 10 per
cent of the recovery, together with expenses, to be paid
to the attorneys for the Northwestern Bands out of the
sums found due. After counsel are thus paid, not a cent
is put into the reach of the Indians; all that is done for
them by a judgment is to earmark some funds in the

SHOSHONE INDIANS v. U. S.
335

JACKSON,

J., concurring.

Treasury from which Congress may as it sees fit from

time to time make appropriations "for the health, education, and industrial advancement of said Indians."
Congress could do this, of course, without any judgment
or earmarking of funds, as it often has done. Congress,
even after judgment, still must decide the amount and
times of payment to the Indians according to their needs.
We would not be second to any other in recognizing
that-judgment or no judgment-a moral obligation of
a high order rests upon this country to provide for decent shelter, clothing, education, and industrial advancement of the Indian. Nothing is gained by dwelling upon
the unhappy conflicts that have prevailed between the
Shoshones and the whites-conflicts which sometimes
leaves one in doubt which side could make the better
claim to be civilized. The generation of Indians who suffered the privations, indignities, and brutalities of the
westward march of the whites have gone to the Happy
Hunting Ground, and nothing that we can do can square
the account with them. Whatever survives is a moral
obligation resting on the descendants of the whites to do
for the descendants of the Indians what in the conditions of this twentieth century is the decent thing.
It is most unfortunate to try to measure this moral duty
in terms of legal obligations and ask the Court to spell
out Indian legal rights from written instruments made
and probably broken long ago and to put our moral duty
in figures as legal damages. The Indian problem is essentially a sociological problem, not a legal one. We can
make only a pretense of adjudication of such claims, and
that only by indulging the most unrealistic and fictional
assumptions.
Here we are asked to go back over three quarters of a
century to spell out the meaning of a most ambiguous
writing made in 1863. One of the parties did not keep,
or know how to keep, written records of negotiations.

356

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
JACKSON, J., concurring.

324 U. S.

Written evidence bearing on intention is only that which
the whites chose to make. It does not take a particularly
discerning eye to see that these records, written usually
by Indian agents, are quite apt to speak well of the writer's
virtue and good intention. Evidence from the memory
of man is no longer available. Even if both parties to
these agreements were of our own stock, we being a recordkeeping people, a court would still have the gravest difficulty determining what their motives and intentions and
meanings were. Statutes of limitations cut off most such
inquiries, not because a claim becomes less just the longer
it is denied, but because another policy intervenes-the
policy to leave in repose matters which can no longer be
the subject of intelligent adjudication.
Even if the handicap of time could be overcome, we
could not satisfactorily apply legal techniques to interpretation of this treaty. The Indian parties to the treaty
were a band of simple, relatively peaceful, and extremely
primitive men. The population of the band was only
about 1,500, and the territories claimed to have been occupied as their home consisted of over 15,000,000 acres of
land in Idaho, Utah, and Nevada-about 10,000 acres for
every individual in the band. Of course so few could not
patrol and defend so vast a territory against inroads by
the more aggressive and efficient whites. The white was a
better killer. The game disappeared, the lands were not
productive, and in peace the Indians became destitute.
Desperation stimulated or perhaps produced predatory
tendencies and they began to fall upon the overland caravans and to steal and rob. The whites brought forth their
armies and reduced the Indians to submission. Then the
whites "negotiated" a treaty.
We realize that for over a century it has been a judicial
practice to construe these "agreements" with Indians, as
if they were contracts between white men. In some cases,
where the provisions are simple and definite and deal with

SHOSHONE INDIANS v. U. S.
335

JACKSON, J., concurring.

concrete lands or matters, this may be practicable. But
despite antiquity of the custom, to apply the litigation
process to such a problem as we have here seems farfetched. The most elemental condition of a bargain was
not present, for there was nothing like equality of bargaining power. On one side were dominant, powerful,
shrewd, and educated whites, who knew exactly what they
wanted. On the other side were destitute, illiterate Indians who primarily wanted to be let alone and who
wanted by some means to continue to live their own accustomed lives. Here we are asked to decide whether
their intent was to relinquish titles or make reservations
of titles or recognition of titles. The Indian parties did
not know what titles were, had no such concept as that
of individual land title, and had no sense of property in
land. Here we are asked to attribute legal meanings to
subscribers of a written instrument who had no written
language of their own in which to express any meaning.
We doubt if any interpreter could intelligently translate
the contents of a writing that deals with the property
concept, for the Indians did not have a word for it.
People do not have words to fit ideas that have never occurred to them. Ownership meant no more to them than
to roam the land as a great common, and to possess and
enjoy it in the same way that they possessed and enjoyed
sunlight and the west wind and the feel of spring in the
air. Acquisitiveness, which develops a law of real property, is an accomplishment only of the "civilized."
Of course the Indians may have had some vague idea
that thereafter they were to stay off certain lands and the
white men in return were to stay off certain other land.
But we do not think it is possible now to reduce such a
nebulous accord to terms of common-law contract and
conveyancing. The treaty was a political document. It
was intended to pacify the Indians and to let the whites
travel in peace a route they somehow were going to travel
anyway.
637582---46------27

358

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

How should we turn into money's worth the rights, if
any, of which the Indians have been deprived? Should
we measure it in terms of what was lost to a people who
needed 10,000 acres apiece to sustain themselves through
hunting and nomadic living, who had no system or standard of exchange, and whose representatives in making the
treaty appear to have been softened for the job by gifts
of blankets and trinkets? Should we measure it in terms
of what was gained to our people, who sustain themselves
in large numbers on few acres by greater efficiency and
utilization? Of course amends can be made only to progeny in terms of their present needs as the jurisdictional

Act recognizes will ultimately be done. The Indians'
grievance calls for sympathetic, intelligent, and generous
help in developing the latent talents and aspirations of
the living generation, and there is little enlightenment for
that task from endless and pointless lawsuits over the
negotiation of generations long gone to their rest.
We agree with MR. JUSTICE REED that no legal rights are
today to be recognized in the Shoshones by reason of this
treaty. We agree with MR. JUSTIcE DOUGLAS and MR.
JUsTICE MURPHY as to their moral deserts. We do not
mean to leave the impression that the two have any relation to each other. The finding that the treaty creates
no legal obligations does not restrict Congress from such
appropriations as its judgment dictates "for the health,
education, and industrial advancement of said Indians,"
which is the position in which Congress would find itself
if we found that it did create legal obligations and tried
to put a value on them.
dissenting.
I think the claims which these Indians assert are claims
"arising under or growing out of the treaty of July 30,
1863."
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

SHOSHONE INDIANS v. U. S.
335

DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

He who comes to my abode and bargains for free transit

or a right of way across the land on which I live and which
I proclaim to be my own certainly recognizes that I have
a claim to it. That and more was done here. Routes of
travel through this Shoshone country, the establishment
of military agricultural settlements and military posts,
the maintenance of ferries over the rivers, the erection of
houses and settlements, the location, construction, and
operation of a railroad, the maintenance of telegraph and
overland stage lines were all negotiated. These provisions
alone constitute plain recognition by the United States
that it was dealing with people who had the power to
grant these rights of travel and settlement. The United
States, of course, did not need to follow that course. It
could have invaded this Indian country and extinguished
Indian title by the sword or by appropriation. United
States v. Santa Fe Pacific R. Co., 314 U. S. 339, 347, and
cases cited. But it did not choose that course. It chose
to negotiate a treaty. And through the medium of the
treaty it obtained from these Indians rights of way, rights
to settle, rights of transit. It was stated in Worcester v.
Georgia, 6 Pet. 515, 556, that "The acceptance of these
cessions is an acknowledgment of the right of the Cherokees to make or withhold them." That is good law. It
is as applicable here as it was in that early case. There,
to be sure, lands had been specifically set apart for the
Cherokees. But that is not a material difference. Indian
title is the right to occupancy based on aboriginal possession. United States v. Santa Fe Pacific R. Co., supra.
It has been the policy of the United States from the beginning to respect that right of occupancy. Id., p. 345. As
stated in Mitchel v. United States, 9 Pet. 711, 746, the
Indian "right of occupancy is considered as sacred as the
fee simple of the whites." Thus we may not say that because these Indians had only Indian title this case can

360

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

be distinguished from Worcester v. Georgia, supra. When
the United States obtained these cessions it acknowledged
whatever claim to the land these Indians had. The Indians
ask no more now.
Moreover, the Senate in ratifying the treaty made clear
that it construed the treaty as recognizing the title or claim
of these Indians to this land. The amendment added in
the Senate provided: "Nothing herein contained shall be
construed or taken to admit any other or greater title or
interest in the lands embraced within the territories described in said treaty in said tribes or bands of Indians
than existed in them upon the acquisition of said territories from Mexico by the laws thereof." That should put
beyond dispute that the Senate understood the treaty to
accord recognition of the title which the Indians had under
Mexican law. To say it gives no recognition to any claim
is to erase this provision from the treaty.
But if there is still any doubt as to the meaning of the
treaty it should be wholly removed by another of its provisions. The treaty stated that "The country claimed by
Pokatello, for himself and his people, is bounded on the
west by Raft River and on the east by the Porteneuf
Mountains."
That is now brushed aside as irrelevant. But we should
remember that no counsel sat at the elbow of Pokatello
when the treaty was drafted. It was written in a language
foreign to him. He was not a conveyancer. He was not
cognizant of distinctions in title. He neither had nor gave
deeds to his land. There was no recording office. But he
knew the land where he lived and for which he would fight.
If the standards of the frontier are to govern, his assertion
of ownership and its recognition by the United States
could hardly have been plainer.
We should remember the admonition in Jones v. Meehan, 175 U. S. 1, 11, that in construing a treaty between
the United States and an Indian tribe it must always be

SHOSHONE INDIANS v. U. S.
335

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

borne in mind "that the negotiations for the treaty are
conducted, on the part of the United States, an enlightened
and powerful nation, by representatives skilled in diplomacy, masters of a written language, understanding the
modes and forms of creating the various technical estates
known to their law, and assisted by an interpreter employed by themselves; that the treaty is drawn up by them
and in their own language; that the Indians, on the other
hand, are a weak and dependent people, who have no
written language and are wholly unfamiliar with all the
forms of legal expression, and whose only knowledge of the
terms in which the treaty is framed is that imparted to
them by the interpreter employed by the United States;
and that the treaty must therefore be construed, not according to the technical meaning of its words to learned
lawyers, but in the sense in which they would naturally
be understood by the Indians."
When the standard is not observed, what these Indians
did not lose to the railroads and to the land companies
they lose in the fine web of legal niceties.
As stated by the Attorneys General of Idaho and Utah
who appear here as amici curiae: "The result is that a
peaceful and friendly people, lulled into a sense of security
by the proffers of the United States of peace and amity,
have been reduced from a nation able to wrest their living
from their primitive ancestral home to a nondescript,
homeless, and poverty-stricken aggregation of bands of
Indians, without the means to compete in the modem
civilization which had disseised them. Until the treaty
with petitioners, petitioners were so strong and formidable
that the trouble and expense of taking their lands by warleaving out of account the dishonor that would have been
involved in proceeding against a nation which had given
no cause for war-would have far outweighed the expense
of settling with them for their lands at whatever the cost
in money. But the United States did neither. Congress

362

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

324 U. Si

felt it could not at that time afford to extinguish petitioners' title by purchase. Consequently, for a meager
consideration, the petitioners granted respondent certain
valuable rights in those lands. For respondent, under
these circumstances, to attempt to deny petitioners' title
is unworthy of our country. The faith of this nation having been pledged in the treaties, the honor of the nation
demands, and the jurisdictional act requires, that these
long-unsettled grievances be settled by this court in simple
justice to a downtrodden people."
The story has been told before. Chester Fee, Chief Joseph (1936); Howard Fast, The Last Frontier (1944).
MR.JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

and

MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

join in this dissent.
MR.

JUSTICE MURPHY,

dissenting.

It is a well-settled rule that in the interpretation of
Indian treaties all ambiguities are to be resolved in favor
of the Indians. Worcester v. Georgia,6 Pet. 515,582; Winters v. United States, 207 U. S. 564, 576; Carpenter v.
Shaw, 280 U. S.363, 367. While this principle does not
justify ignoring the plain meaning of words in order to
prevent what appears to be an injustice to the Indians,
it does mean that a court is bound to give to doubtful
expressions that meaning least prejudicial to the interests
of the Indians, giving full weight to the conditions under
which the treaty was drawn. The application of this principle to the facts of this case makes manifest the error of
the Court of Claims.
The issue here centers about the meaning of the
Box
Elder Treaty of July 30, 1863, 13 Stat. 663, entered into
between the United States and the Northwestern Bands
of Shoshone Indians. Did the United States by that
treaty acknowledge or recognize the claim of the Indians
to the land in question so as to make it a claim "arising
under or growing out of" the treaty for purposes of the

SHOSHONE INDIANS v. U. S.
335

MuRPHY, J., dissenting.

jurisdictional act of February 28, 1929, 45 Stat. 1407? An
affirmative answer to this question is dictated by both
the treaty provisions and the circumstances surrounding
the making of the treaty.
1. Events preceding the Box Elder Treaty. The great
westward surge of the white men from 1849 to 1863
through the country claimed by the various Shoshone
tribes aroused resentment and hostility among the Indians.
Game was driven away and vegetation destroyed, forcing
the Indians to steal or starve. Telegraph and overland
daily mail lines were established through their territory
in complete disregard of any rights they might have. The
Government did little or nothing to supply the Indians
with food or supplies during this period. White emigrants
and the Government were caused considerable trouble by
depredations and warlike acts of these oppressed Indians.
Some agreement whereby white emigrants could travel
and the Government could maintain a communication
system through the Shoshone area was imperative.
Little was done before 1861, when the Commissioner of
Indian Affairs recommended that a treaty be negotiated
with the Shoshone Indians which would grant them annuities "in consideration of a right-of-way across their
country." In the same year the Superintendent of Indian
Affairs for the Utah Territory also recommended the negotiation of a treaty, stating that the Shoshones "express
their willingness to cede to the United States all the lands
they claim in this territory," with certain reservations.
In February, 1862, the Secretary of the Interior in a
letter to the chairman of the House Committee on Indian
Affairs acknowledged that the lands were "owned by the
Indians" but reported that little was fit for cultivation
and would probably not be "required for settlement for
many years." He thus did not recommend the purchase
of the land. In light of this letter, the House Committee
on Indian Affairs recommended to Congress that it au-

364

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

thorize the negotiation of a treaty for passageways over
the land claimed by the Shoshones and not try to purchase
the land.
Accordingly on July 5, 1862, Congress authorized the
appointment of a treaty commission to negotiate such a
treaty. 12 Stat. 512, 529. On July 22 the Commissioner
of Indian Affairs instructed the treaty commissioners who
had been appointed that the Government did not have
sufficient knowledge to state definitely the boundaries of
the country inhabited and claimed by the Shoshones but
that it was understood that they inhabited "the country
in the northern part of Utah and eastern portion of Washington Territories, through which lies the route of the
overland mail, and the emigrant route through Utah and
into Washington Territory and it is mainly to secure the
safety of the travel along these routes that a treaty is
desirable." He further told them that it was not expected
that the treaty would be negotiated "with a view to the
extinguishment of the Indian title to'the land." They
were told that the United States' assurances of amicable
relations and the contemplated payment of $20,000 in
annuities should enable them to procure from the Indians
an agreement for the security of the overland mail and
emigrant routes, in addition to a "definite acknowledgment as well of the boundaries of the entire country they
claim, as of the limits within which they will confine
themselves."
Thus prior to the actual negotiation of the treaty, the
United States recognized that the Shoshone tribes claimed
and inhabited certain territory, the exact boundaries of
which were uncertain. The fact that the United States
thought it necessary to make a treaty concerning rights
of way and the fact that the United States expressly did
not desire to negotiate "with a view to the extinguishment
of the Indian title to the land" strongly indicate that the
United States considered the Indians as the owners of this

SHOSHONE INDIANS v. U. S.
335

MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

ill-defined area of land. The securing of rights of way,
which was the main purpose of the treaty, would have
been a needless formality had title to the underlying land
been thought to be in the name of the United States.
And the securing of an acknowledgment of the boundaries
of the land claimed by the Shoshones, which was a subsidiary purpose of the treaty, would likewise have been
unnecessary if the United States considered itself the
owner of all the land. The stage was thus set for a delineation of the Shoshone land to which the United States was
prepared to acknowledge Indian title.
2. The negotiations for and the contents of the Box
Elder Treaty. The treaty commissioners found it impossible to assemble all the Shoshone tribes at one time.
They thus negotiated five separate treaties with the five
Shoshone Nations. They met first with the Eastern Shoshones at Ft. Bridger, Wyoming, where they negotiated the
treaty of July 2, 1863, 18 Stat. 685. This treaty pledged
peace between the United States and the Indians and
pledged the United States to pay annual annuities. The
Shoshones in turn agreed that routes of travel through
"Shoshone country" should remain forever free and safe
for the use of the United States and its emigrants and
travellers. They also agreed that the United States might
establish military agricultural establishments and military
posts along said routes, maintain ferries over rivers, erect
houses and settlements wherever necessary for the comfort
of the travellers, operate and maintain existing telegraph
and overland stage coach lines, and operate a transcontinental railway "through any portion of the country
claimed by" the Shoshones. The treaty further set forth
a description of "the Shoshonee country, as defined and
described by said nation," leaving the western boundary
undefined since there were no Shoshones present from that
area.
On July 30,1863, the commissioners met with the Northwestern Bands of Shoshone Indians at Box Elder, Utah.

366

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
MuRPHY, J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

The resulting treaty also stipulated for peace and friendship and then incorporated by reference all the pertinent
provisions of the Ft. Bridger Treaty. The Northwestern
Bands thus granted the same rights of way and easements
over their lands as the Eastern Bands had granted. The
Box Elder Treaty did not purport to describe all the land
of the Northwestern Bands, but only the "country claimed
by Pokatello [one of their chiefs] for himself and his people." This area was described as being bounded on the
west by the Raft River and on the east by the Porteneuf
Mountains.
Similar treaties were entered into with the Western
Shoshones on October 1, 1863, the Shoshonee-Goship
Bands on October 12, 1863, and the Mixed Bands of Shoshone and Bannock Indians on October 14,1863. All these
treaties were substantially the same insofar as the granting
of rights of way and easements were concerned. And each
of them set forth "the boundaries of the country claimed
and occupied by said bands."
Thus by these five treaties the United States secured
(a) freedom of travel and communication through the
Shoshone country and (b) definite acknowledgment of
the areas claimed by the Shoshones. While the Box Elder
Treaty did not define the boundaries of the Northwestern
Shoshone lands completely, reference to and collocation
of the territorial descriptions in the other four treaties, as
well as reference to the map prepared at the time by the
chairman of the treaty commission, supply the territorial
boundaries of these lands.
The very acceptance in the Box Elder Treaty of these
rights of way and easements constituted a recognition and
acknowledgment by the United States that the Northwestern Bands had title to the land claimed. Worcester
v. Georgia,6 Pet. 515,556; FortBerthold Indiansv. United
States, 71 Ct. Cls. 308,332. Such recognition and acknowledgment need not be indicated by any particular word
or phrase. They may be implied as well as expressed.

SHOSHONE INDIANS v. U. S.
335

MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

That is the case here. The Box Elder Treaty and the four
other treaties would have been meaningless had the United
States not thereby recognized the Indian title to the land
claimed. Without such title, the Indians would have
lacked power to bargain concerning the right to travel and
communicate over the land. Recognition of this power
to bargain and acceptance of the fruits of that bargaining
implied recognition of the underlying Indian title to the
land. Otherwise there would have been no reason for the
United States bothering to negotiate. Unilateral assertion of rights would have been resorted to had the United
States not recognized Indian title to these lands. This
is true whether the Indians held title based on aboriginal
possession or whether they held lands specifically set aside
for them. It is likewise immaterial that the main purpose
of the treaties was to secure rights in the land rather than
to acknowledge or secure title. The securing of those
rights necessarily presupposes Indian title and necessarily
recognizes such title.
Thus by its action in negotiating for and securing rights
of passage and communication, the United States indicated its recognition and acknowledgment of Indian title
to the land. The descriptions of the lands claimed by the
various tribes were inserted merely to give the United
States knowledge of the precise boundaries to the land
held by the Indians. The fact that these treaties and
the Box Elder Treaty in particular speak in terms of land
"claimed" by the Indians does not negate recognition of
title to the land so claimed. In the context of these treaties
and in light of the ignorance of the Indians of legal niceties, the term "claim" need not be taken to mean bare
assertion to title. It must be remembered that these
Indians held title by aboriginal possession and that the
United States was in no position to bargain as to the scope
of the land so held. A bona fide Indian claim of this type
is synonymous with ownership unless it conflicts with
some other ownership or Unless such an Indian title is

368

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
MURPHY, J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

unrecognized in law. Here, however, the United States
did recognize this type of ownership and was anxious
merely to ascertain the scope of the land so claimed or
owned. The placing of these descriptions in a bilateral
treaty is at least consistent with the conclusion that the
United States recognized title to the extent of the lands
claimed. And under the rule that ambiguities are to be
resolved in favor of the Indians, we must adopt that
conclusion.
3. Events subsequent to the Box Elder Treaty. Any
doubt as to whether the United States by these treaties
recognized and acknowledged Indian title to the land
claimed is removed by actions and statements of the Government subsequent to the making of these treaties.
The Senate ratified each of the treaties. To four of
them, including the Box Elder Treaty, the Senate added
an amendment providing that nothing in the treaty should
be construed to admit "any other or greater title or interest
in the lands embraced within the territories described in
said treaty in said tribes or bands of Indians than existed
in them upon the acquisition of said territories from
Mexico by the laws thereof." See 13 Stat. 664. Whatever
may have been the complexities of the Mexican cession
title situation as described in the opinion of this Court,
the Senate by this amendment clearly indicated that it
understood each treaty to constitute a recognition of
Indian title to the land claimed, at least as to lands outside the Mexican cession. Had the Senate been under
the impression that no title rights were involved in the
treaties it would have been meaningless to add this
amendment. Resolving any doubts on this score in favor
of the Indians compels us to interpret this amendment
as another recognition of Indian title.
In 1863 the Commissioner of Indian Affairs recommended that further treaties with the Shoshones be nego-

SHOSHONE INDIANS v. U. S.
335

MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

tiated to extinguish their title to the soil. And Congress
in 1865 authorized the President to enter into treaties with
Indians in the Utah Territory for the surrender to the
United States of their possessory right to all agricultural
and mineral land and for their segregation on reservations.
13 Stat. 432. Accordingly a treaty was made with the
Eastern Shoshones in 1868 whereby they gave up the
territory claimed by them in the Ft. Bridger Treaty in
exchange for other lands. 15 Stat. 673. Here again is
clear proof that the United States considered title to the
land to belong to the Indians, making even more compelling the conclusion that the 1863 treaties constituted a
necessary recognition of that title.
And as late as 1934 the Secretary of the Interior admitted that the territory of the Shoshones "was recognized
by the United States as belonging to the various bands of
Shoshone Indians" by the 1863 treaties and that the "Government recognized all the land as belonging to the Northwestern bands of Shoshones." Such statements are more
than justified by the history and contents of the treaties.
One final matter remains. It is said that any money
recovered by the Indians in this suit would have to be
deposited in the Treasury of the United States, subject to
appropriation by Congress for their benefit, and that the
only possible cash payment involves attorney fees. That
may be true. But it does not justify ignoring the rights
of the Shoshone Indians recognized under solemn treaties
entered into with the United States. It does not command us to overthrow the moral obligation of the United
States to fulfill its treaty obligations. And it does not
warrant the application of narrow principles of construction to the injury of the Indians' interests. If Congress
desires to place in the Treasury any money that might be
recovered by the Indians in this suit that is the business
of Congress, not ours. Our function here is at an end

370

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Syllabus.

324 U. S.

when we have determined if the Northwestern Bands have
any claim "arising under or growing out of" the Box Elder
Treaty. Because I believe they have such a claim I would
reverse the judgment below.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER and MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

concur in this opinion.
SPECIAL EQUIPMENT CO. v. COE, COMMISSIONER
OF PATENTS.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 469. Argued March 2, 5, 1945.-Decided March 26, 1945.
1. In this suit in equity under R. S. ยง 4915 to compel the Commissioner
of Patents to issue a patent upon an application for a subcombination of the elements of a machine, assumed to be a useful invention,
for which the claimant had previously filed a patent application, the
record fails to establish that the claimant intended to misuse the
patent on the subcombination or to make no use of the alleged invention, and the decision of the court below refusing on that ground
to order issuance of the patent was therefore erroneous. Pp. 374,
380.
2. A subcombination patent may legitimately be used as a means of
preventing appropriation by others of a combination invention which
the claimant is using, where there is absent any purpose to enlarge
the patent monopoly of either invention. P. 376.
A patent on a combination embodied in an inventor's complete
machine, without allowance of subcombination claims, would not
prevent free use of the subcombination. Hence denial of a patent
on the subcombination would deprive the inventor of the benefit of
the exclusive right to use the subcombination in the ways specified
by the patent laws. It would also leave the public free to use, and
thus to appropriate a part, however important, of the inventor's
complete machine, even though patented.
3. The statutes permit, and it is the settled practice of the Patent
Office to allow, subcombination as well as combination claims.
P. 377.
4. The patent grant is not of a right to the patentee to use the invention, but of the right to exclude others from using it. P. 378.
5. Ethyl Gasoline Corp. v. United States, 309 U. S. 436, lends no support to the contention that a patentee may not use his patent as a

