386

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Statement of the Case.

324 U. S.

pears. Admittedly the machine will not work, without
the knife, as to them. In my judgment therefore the
claims are too broad. The Patent Office and the District
Court so found. The question is open and was presented
in the Court of Appeals and here. Accordingly I would
affirm the judgment.

UNITED STATES v. COMMODORE PARK, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 495. Argued February 9, 1945.-Decided March 26, 1945.
1. An owner of land in the bed of a navigable stream between high
and low water mark, though his title is recognized by the State, is
not entitled to compensation from the United States for a decrease
in the value of the land resulting from operations by the United
States for the improvement of navigation. P. 390.
2. A riparian owner whose fast lands were not invaded is not entitled
to compensation from the United States for a decrease, resulting from
operations by the United States for the improvement of navigation,
in such value as his lands may have had by reason of their proximity
to navigable waters. P. 390.
3. A project pursuant to which a navigable water was dredged and
the dredged material was deposited in a connecting navigable water,
though originated for the improvement of shore facilities and though
navigation of the connecting water was thereby blocked, was an integrated project which bore a substantial relation to commerce or
navigation, and the rule of governmental non-liability was applicable.
P. 391.
4. The constitutional power of the federal government to regulate
commerce may be exercised to block navigation at one place in order
to aid it at another. P. 393.
143 F. 2d 720, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

323 U. S. 698, to review the affirmance of a

judgment for the plaintiff in a suit against the United
States under the Tucker Act.

U. S. v. COMMODORE PARK.
386

Opinion of the Court.

Solicitor General Fahy, with whom Messrs. J. Edward
Williams, Chester T. Lane and Vernon L. Wilkinson were
on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. W. R. Ashburn for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE

BLACK

delivered the opinion of the Court.

The United States dredged a tidewater navigable bay
and deposited the dredged materials in a navigable arm of
the bay called Mason Creek, thereby destroying its navigability, and impairing certain benefits alleged to inhere
in the proximity of the land to a navigable tidewater creek.
The broad question presented is whether the-Fifth Amendment requires the government to compensate an owner of
residential property contiguous to the creek, whose fast
lands, though not physically invaded, were decreased in
market value.
Commodore Park, Inc., an owner of lands on the creek
about a mile away from the filled-in segment, brought
this suit in the District Court under the Tucker Act, 24
Stat. 505, 28 U. S. C. 41 (20) for damages resulting from
a "taking" by the government of its property for public
use, in connection with a naval facilities expansion program. As the case comes to us,' the material findings,
I In the District Court respondent also claimed that mud and silt
had been cast on his fast lands. This part of the claim was denied by
the District Court, and we need not consider it. With reference to it
the Circuit Court of Appeals said: "This relief dredging gave rise
to the additional claim on the part of the plaintiff that mud and silt
had been deposited on its land, not only between high and low water
mark but also above high water mark. But the District Judge
disallowed this part of the claim as he found that no material damage
had been suffered in excess of the benefit which the plaintiff had
derived from the partial filling of low marshes, inlets and coves on its
property. No appeal was taken by the plaintiff." United States v.
Commodore Park, 143 F. 2d 720, 722.

388

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

which we accept, are that the government (1) caused mud
and silt to settle on that part of the land in question lying
in the bed of what had been a navigable tidewater creek
before the project was completed, and (2) destroyed the
navigability of the creek, thereby depriving respondent
of that part of the market value of its fast land attributable to its proximity and accessibility to a fresh tidewater
creek in its natural and navigable state. The government's answer, so far as material to our decision, is that
respondent's alleged ownership of the land between high
and low water marks and its "riparian rights" of access
to the navigable waters both were subordinate to the government's plenary authority over navigable waters of
the United States, that its program was effectuated pursuant to that authority, and that consequently there had
been no "taking" of "private property" within the meaning of the Fifth Amendment.
The District Court held that the entire project had no
substantial relation to navigation or commerce, and found
that the market value of the land lying between high and
low water marks had been decreased by the mud and silt
deposits, and that respondent's fast land had been reduced in value because of the loss of the riparian rights
of access for navigation, fishing, boating, and the like.
It accordingly rendered judgment for respondent "for the
damages it . . . sustained as a result of the taking of its
riparian rights and lands . . ." The Circuit Court of
Appeals unanimously agreed that the dredging operation
was done in furtherance of navigation and commerce, but
a majority held that the depositing of the dredged material
in the creek was not in aid of navigation, and therefore
affirmed the District Court. 143 F. 2d 720. Because it is
important that the government's power to engage in projects in aid of navigation and commerce be clearly defined,
we granted certiorari, 323 U. S. 698.

U. S. v. COMMODORE PARK.
386

Opinion of the Court.

A few additional facts drawn from the record will serve
to clarify the issues.
In 1940, the respondent owned a residential real estate
development in Norfolk, Virginia, located on the east side
of Mason Creek, a navigable tidewater which extended
inland about four or five miles from the navigable waters
of Willoughby Bay. West of Mason Creek, and adjacent
to Willoughby Bay, was located the Hampton Roads
Naval Operating Base, which maintained a Naval Air
Station with shore facilities for seaplanes. It was this
station which, under the authority of Congress,' the Navy
Department enlarged and improved. In order to provide
suitable waters for the operation of large seaplanes, the
Navy, acting in conjunction with the War Department,
30 Stat. 1121, 1151-1155, dredged Willoughby Bay to a
depth of 10 to 15 feet below mean low water. Additional
lands, adjacent to the base, were bought or condemned
by the government, on -both the east and west sides of
Mason Creek. The materials dredged from the bay were
in part deposited in Mason Creek between the shores of
lands owned by the government adjacent to the bay. By
this process, the bed of Mason Creek was at that point
raised to the level of its shores, thereby becoming incorporated as an integral and useful part of the Naval Operating Base. This fill, reinforced by bulwarks, dykes and
retaining walls, cut off the remainder of Mason Creek,
along which respondent's land bordered, from any navigable outlet to Willoughby Bay and the sea. It also
blocked off the tidal movements which previously had provided an element of freshness in Mason Creek's waters,
thereby resulting in a standing and stagnant pool. This
condition, at the request of property owners, was later
alleviated by digging a channel in the stream's bed, and
2

48 Stat. 957; 53 Stat. 590-592; 53 Stat. 757, 772-773.
637582°--46-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

connecting it with the bay by a culvert, much smaller in
area than the original bed. An iron grate, placed where
the culvert emptied its waters into the bay, closed it to
navigation. We must take it from the findings below that
the size and construction of the culvert were inadequate
to afford a completely free tidal movement, and that as a
result, the waters of Mason Creek became "semi-stagnant," depriving them of the same freshness they had
possessed before the work was done.
First. The judgment for respondent involves no physical invasion of its fast lands. Its property was more than
a mile from the fill made in Mason Creek. The only land
for which compensation was awarded because of mud and
silt deposits was that part of the creek's bed between high
and low water marks. That Virginia recognizes respondent's title to such land ' cannot give respondent a right
to compensation if its market value is impaired as a result
of work done by the United States in the interest of improvement of navigation. United States v. Chicago, M.,
St. P. & P. R. Co., 312 U. S. 592, 596-598, set at rest any
remaining doubt concerning the dominant power of the
government to control and regulate navigable waters in
the interest of commerce,4 without payment of compensation to one who under state law may hold "technical" legal
title (as between himself and others than the government)
to a part of the navigable stream's bed.
Second. Nor does a riparian owner acquire a unique
private right distinct from that held by all others, to
have access to and enjoyment of navigable waters and to
recover compensation from the government because deprived of that privilege by an authorized governmental
3Scott v. Doughty, 124 Va. 358, 97 S. E. 802; Hite v. Town of Luray,
175 Va. 218, 8 S. E. 2d 369.
4 United States v. Chandler-DunbarCo., 229 U. S. 53, 60, 62, 68, 72;
Scranton v. Wheeler, 179 U. S. 141, 163.

U. S. V. COMMODORE PARK.
386

Opinion of the Court.

change in a stream.5 Respondent's property was always

subject to a dominant servitude; it did not have a vested
right to have this navigable stream remain fixed and unaltered simply because of the consequent reflected additional market value to adjacent lands. Whatever market value of riparian lands may be attributable to their
closeness to navigable waters, does not detract from the
government's "absolute" power,6 in the interests of commerce, to make necessary changes in a stream. In short,
as against the demands of commerce, an owner of land adjacent to navigable waters, whose fast lands are left uninvaded, has no private riparian rights of access to the
waters to do such things as "fishing and boating and the
like," for which rights the government must pay.7 Riparian rights of access to navigable waters cannot, as against
the government's power to control commerce, be bought
and sold.
Third. It is argued that the foregoing rule of governmental non-liability is inapplicable to this case. Since the
Navy Department originated this plan with a view to improvement of shore facilities, we are asked to hold that
neither the dredging in Willoughby Bay nor the deposit
of the dredged material in Mason Creek bore any real or
substantial relation to commerce or navigation. Such a
holding was the basis of the District Court's judgment.
The Circuit Court held that the dredging in Willoughby
Bay was, but the deposit in Mason Creek was not, related
to commerce or navigation. We cannot agree. The "fact
that purposes other than navigation will also be served
could not invalidate the exercise of the authority con5Scranton v. Wheeler, supra, 159-160; Stockton v. Baltimore &
N. Y. R. Co., 32 F. 9, 20.
6 United States v. River Rouge Co., 269 U. S. 411, 419; Gilman v.
Philadelphia,3 Wall. 713, 724-5.
7Gibson
v. United States, 166 U. S. 269; Scranton v. Wheeler, supra.

392

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

ferred, even if those other purposes would not alone have
justified an exercise of Congressional power." Arizona v.
California,283 U. S. 423, 456.
All the waters affected were navigable. The Constitution entrusted to Congress the responsibility of determining what obstructions may, or may not, be placed in such
waters.'
This power Congress may exercise itself or
through its duly authorized agents.' Here, the War Department, selected by Congress to pass upon when, and to
what extent, navigable waters may be altered or obstructed, permitted, and actually supervised, the program
accomplished. Even though cases might arise in which
the courts would look behind the judgment of this specially
authorized agency, ° this is not such a case.
While this project touched two separate, although
closely related, bodies of navigable waters, and looked to
improvement of shore as well as water facilities, the entire program as to the waters was designed to achieve one
closely integrated unit. That there were two bodies of
navigable waters to which the one program related, does
not detract from Congressional power as to either, for its
powers are broad enough to justify one unified program
for the connected body of waters to the end that commerce in general may be fostered."
Thus, having power under the Commerce Clause to obstruct navigation by depositing the dredged soil in Wil8 United States v. Chandler-Dunbar Co., supra, 62-67; Pennsylvania v. Wheeling & Belmont Bridge Co., 18 How. 421.
9 Union Bridge Co. v. United States, 204 U. S. 364, 377-388; Greenleaf-Johnson Lumber Co. v. Garrison,237 U. S. 251, 268; South Carolina v. Georgia, 93 U. S. 4, 13.
10 See Greenleaf-JohnsonLumber Co. v. Garrison,supra, 268; United
States v. Appalachian Electric Power Co., 311 U. S. 377, 424; Arizona
v. California,283 U. S. 423, 456.
11 United States v. Appalachian Power Co., supra, 426-437; Oklahoma v. Atkinson Co., 313 U. S. 508, 527-528.

ESTATE OF PUTNAM v. COMM'R.
386

Syllabus.

loughby Bay, the government was likewise authorized to
deposit in Mason Creek for the same purpose. There is
power to block navigation at one place to foster it at another.'2 Whether this blocking be done by altering the
stream's course, by lighthouses, jetties, piers, or a dam
made of dredged material, the government's power is the
same and in the instant case is derived from the same
source-its authority to regulate commerce. Since the
judgment awarded rested entirely upon the conclusion
that respondent's property had been taken by "filling and
closing Mason Creek," and since all of respondent's "riparian rights" were subordinate to the government's power
to close the stream, the judgment is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS is of the opinion that the judgment should be affirmed for the reasons stated in the

opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals, 143 F. 2d 721.
ESTATE OF PUTNAM; GUARANTY TRUST CO.,
EXECUTOR, v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 534. Argued February 2, 1945.-Decided March 26, 1945.
1. Whether at the date of the death of a taxpayer a dividend has
"accrued," within the meaning of § 42 of the Revenue Act of 1938,
so as to be includible in computing income of the taxpayer, is a
question of federal law. P. 395.
2. A dividend which was declared prior to the date of the death of a
taxpayer (assumed to be on the cash receipts basis), but which by
the terms of the declaration was payable to stockholders of record
on a date subsequent to his death, was not at the date of the death
12 South Carolina v. Georgia, supra; Scranton v. Wheeler, supra;

Arizona v. California,supra, 451-452.

