768

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
324 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

so, since we do not have before us the petition in the
Criminal Court, and its contents do not otherwise appear
of record.
Dismissed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS concurs in the result.

UNITED STATES v. BEUTTAS

ET AL., TRADING AS

B-W

CONSTRUCTION CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 431. Argued March 1, 1945.-Decided April 23, 1945.
In the circumstances of this case, there was no basis for recovery by
the contractor of the difference between the higher wages paid and
those specified in the Government contract. P. 772.
101 Ct. Cls. 748, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 323 U. S. 702, to review a judgment for the
plaintiff in an action against the United States on a contract.

Mr. Ralph F. Fuchs, with whom Solicitor GeneralFahy,
Assistant Attorney GeneralShea, Messrs. PaulA. Sweeney
and Jerome H. Simonds were on the brief, for the United
States.
lower courts of Illinois, not reviewable in any other state court, is a
decision by the highest court of the state in which a decision could be
had. Betts v. Brady, 316 U. S. 455; cf. Largent v. Texas, 318 U. S.
418. And it follows from the lack of a remedy in the Illinois Supreme
Court in such a case, that an original application to that court for
the writ is not prerequisite to review here of the decision of the lower
state court. Cf. Tenner v. Dullea,314 U. S. 692.

UNITED STATES v. BEUTTAS.
768

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. P. J. J. Nicolaides, with whom Mr. William F.
Kelly was on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The respondents executed a contract with the petitioner
whereby they agreed to construct the foundations for a
public housing project. By Article 19 they agreed that
workmen of designated classes should be paid specified
minimum wages, and if, during the progress of the work,
the petitioner should find it desirable that wages higher
than those specified should be paid, it might establish
different rates, and in such case the contract price should
be adjusted accordingly.
The respondents paid wages higher than those named in
the contract, and brought this action, inter alia, to recover
the difference. They introduced evidence to prove that
commencement of the work was suspended by delays on
the part of petitioner's officers and by other conditions for
which the respondents were not responsible; that during
the period of suspension the petitioner asked bids for erection of the superstructure, and by its advertisement required bidders to pay higher rates to the same classes of
workmen than the minima specified in the respondents'
contract; that when respondents' employees learned of
this they demanded wages equal to those that were to be
paid for work on the superstructure; and that to obtain
workers and to settle a strike the respondents had to pay
such increased wages.
It appears that respondents submitted a claim for reimbursement for the increase in wages to the contracting
officer who disallowed it, and then appealed to the Assistant Administrator of Public Works who filed a written de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

cision sustaining the contracting officer's ruling. The Administrator, in turn, rejected the claim. It is urged that
the last-named official was in error as to certain of the facts,
but there is no suggestion that he acted arbitrarily or in
bad faith.
The petitioner's defense is grounded in certain provisions of the contract and the specifications forming a
part of it, and facts found by the court below.
Article 3 provided that the contracting officer might
make changes in the drawings and specifications within
the general scope thereof; that an equitable adjustment
as to any increase or decrease of cost due to such changes
by the contracting officer or, in specified cases, his superior,
should be made; and that if the contractor was dissatisfied with the decision, the dispute should "be determined
as provided in article 15 hereof."
Article 15 is:
"Disputes: All labor issues arising under this contract
which cannot be satisfactorily adjusted by the Contracting Officer shall be submitted to the Head of the Department. Except as otherwise specifically provided in this
contract, all other disputes concerning questions arising
under this contract shall be decided by the Contracting
Officer or his duly authorized representative, subject to
written appeal by the Contractor within 30 days to the
head of the department concerned or his duly authorized
representative, whose decision shall be final and conclusive upon the parties thereto as to such questions. In the
meantime the Contractor shall diligently proceed with the
work as directed." (Italics supplied.)
Paragraph 4 of ยง 12 of Division I of the Specifications
stated:
"The Government will not consider any claims for additional compensation made by the Contractor because of
payment by the Contractor of any wage rate in excess of
the applicable rate contained herein. All disputes in re-

UNITED STATES v. BEUTTAS.
768

Opinion of the Court.

gard to the payment of wages in excess of those specified
herein shall be adjusted by the Contractor."
When respondents entered into the contract, their employees were unionized and were working under a wage
scale fixed by agreement which was in accord with the
rates fixed by the contract. This agreement did not expire
by its terms until twelve days after respondents completed their work. These workmen struck because they
demanded the same wages as were to be paid to workers
under the superstructure contract, according to the advertisement for bids for that work. The petitioner did
not participate in the negotiations between respondents
and their striking workmen.
The Government's defenses were (1) that the dispute
must be decided by the procedure prescribed in Article 15;
that it had been so decided on the respondents' invocation
of that procedure; that no showing of fraud or arbitrary
action had been made, and that accordingly the administrative decision was final and the Court of Claims without
jurisdiction; and (2) that, in any event, no breach of the
contract on the part of the Government had been shown.
These contentions were overruled by a divided court, and
judgment was entered for the respondents.'
1. The respondents' contention is that if Article 15 be
construed to cover such a dispute it is void as an attempt
to oust the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims to decide a
pure matter of law, namely, whether on the facts found,
the petitioner had broken the contract. A majority of the
judges so held, and also thought Article 15 was not intended to cover such a dispute but only one as to changes,
interpretation of the specifications and similar matters
usually remitted to the judgment of an architect.
The parties devoted much of their argument here to the
question whether only questions of fact or questions of
1 101 Ct. Cls. 748; 60 F. Supp. 771.

772

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

mixed law and fact can by contract be made subject to final
determination by an administrative officer of the Government, or whether a question of law may also, by contract,
be made subject to final determination by such an officer.
Our cases have not explicitly drawn any distinction between the two categories. 2 We find it unnecessary to decide the question, for we think it clear that the respondents may not recover for the increased wages in the circumstances of this case.
2. Two of the three judges in the majority below were
of the view that the Government had in fact established
higher wages for the respondents' work and was accordingly liable to pay the increased cost under Article 19 of
the contract. All three judges in the majority held that,
in any case, the Government is liable because what it did
amounted to a breach of its implied obligation not to render performance more costly to the respondents.
Clearly the petitioner did not expressly avail itself of
the option to set higher wage rates for the work covered
by the respondents' contract. In the light of the quoted
portions of the contract and specifications, it cannot be
maintained that a recovery is justified pursuant to the
covenants of the contract.
As an alternative ground of decision, some of the judges
below resorted to the principle that it is an implied condition of every contract that neither party will hinder the
other in his discharge of the obligations imposed upon him,
nor increase his cost of performance. They held that, by
inviting bids for the superstructure at minimum wages
2 See Kihlberg v. United States, 97 U. S. 398; Sweeney v. United
States, 109 U. S. 618; United States v. Gleason, 175 U. S. 588; Plumley v. United States, 226 U. S. 545; Merrill-RuckgaberCo. v. United
States, 241 U. S. 387; United States v. Mason & Hanger Co., 260 U. S.
323; Goltra v. Weeks, 271 U. S. 536; United States v. John McShain,
Inc., 308 U. S. 512; United States v. Callahan Walker Co., 317 U. S.
56; United States v. Blair, 321 U. S. 730.

UNITED STATES v. BEUTTAS.
Opinion of the Court.

768

higher than those fixed in the respondents' contract for the
foundations, the petitioner breached this implied condition. But, of course, this can be true only if the Government caused the increase in wages. And the findings, in
our judgment, render a conclusion to that effect impossible.
The Government did not stipulate that the two groups,
those employed on the foundations and those employed on
the superstructure, should work at the same time at different wages. On the contrary, it had every reason to suppose
that the former would finish their work at the then agreed
rate before the latter came on the work. And this is what
happened. There is no finding that petitioner's officers or
agents had reason to expect that the fixing of a wage rate
under another contract for a separate portion of the work,
which was to be commenced after completion of respondents' contract, would cause a breach of their existing wage
agreement by respondents' employees. M6reover, it is
found that the petitioner took no part in the wage controversy between the respondents and their employees. It
follows that there is no basis for a holding that the Government knowingly hindered respondents in the performance of the contract or culpably increased their costs.
There are other items going to make up the amount of
the judgment entered by the Court of Claims which are
not attacked. As to the item of $3,751.83 increased wage
costs, the judgment must be reversed; in other respects it
is affirmed. The cause will be remanded for further proceedings in conformity to this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS concurs in the result.
637582*-46-

53

