726

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Syllabus.

324 U.S.

judgment of the state court must be sustained in this
respect.
The judgment of the state court is affirmed except in so
far as it provides for recovery of interest on the sums
adjudged to be due respondents under the Act; in this
latter respect the judgment is reversed.
CORN PRODUCTS REFINING CO. ET AL. V. FEDERAL

TRADE COMMISSION.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 680.

Argued February 28, March 1, 1945.-Decided April 23,1945.

1. By petitioners' basing-point system of pricing in their sales of
glucose, their product was sold at delivered prices computed by adding to a base price at Chicago the published freight tariff from
Chicago to the delivery points, even though deliveries were in fact
made from their Kansas City factory as well as from their Chicago
factory. On shipments from Kansas City, the delivered price to the
purchaser thus depended not only on the base price plus the actual
freight from Kansas City, but also upon the difference between the
actual freight paid and the freight rate from Chicago. Held:
(A) The price discriminations resulting from petitioners'
basing-point system violated § 2 (a) of the Clayton Act, as amended.
Pp. 732, 737.
(a) It is immaterial that there was no discrimination between
buyers at the same points of delivery. P. 734.
(b) There is nothing in the legislative history of the Clayton
Act or the amendatory Robinson-Patman Act which confines their
application to discriminations between buyers at the same destination. P. 734.
(c) The contention that basing-point systems were well
known prior to the enactment of the Robinson-Patman Act and
were considered by Congress to be legal, and that their legality
should be sustained in the absence of a clear command to the
contrary, is rejected. P. 734.
(d) Maple FlooringAssn. v. United States, 268 U. S. 563, and
Cement Manufacturers Assn. v. United States, 268 U. S. 588, distinguished. P. 735.

CORN PRODUCTS CO. v. COMM'N.
726

727

Syllabus.

(B) The findings and the evidence support the Federal Trade
Commission's determination that petitioners' discriminations in
price have the effect on competition which brings the discriminations within the prohibition of § 2 (a) of the Act. P. 738.
(a) Under § 2 (a) discriminations need not in fact have had
a "substantially" adverse effect on competition; it is sufficient that
they "may" have that effect. P. 738.
(b) The weight to be attributed to the facts proven or stipulated, and the inferences to be drawn from them, are for the
Commission to determine, not the courts. P. 739.
2. Petitioners also violated § 2 (a) of the Clayton Act, as amended,
by permitting certain favored customers to secure options for the
purchase of glucose, and to take delivery at the former lower prices,
for periods longer than those usually permitted to other customers;
and by permitting certain tank wagon customers to book orders at
the lower prices charged for tank car deliveries and to take deliveries
by tank wagon over extended periods of time. P. 740.
(a) Even assuming that the practices prohibited by § 2 (a)
are discriminations in price and not in the terms and conditions of
sale other than price, the present discriminations in the terms of
sale operated to permit the favored customers to purchase at a
lower price than other customers, so that their only practical effect
was to establish discriminations in price, precisely the evil at which
the statute was aimed. P. 740.
(b) Section 2 (a) applies to indirect as well as direct discriminations in price. P. 740.
(c) Petitioners failed to sustain the burden of showing that the
price discriminations were granted for the purpose of meeting the
"equally low" prices of competitors and that they were therefore
excepted from the prohibition of § 2 (a) of the Clayton Act by the
proviso of subsection (b) of § 2 of that Act. P. 741.
(d) The stipulated facts support the Commission's finding that
the practices in question have the effect on competition which brings
them within the prohibition of the Act. P. 741.
3. The price discriminations which resulted from petitioners' allowance
of discounts to certain favored purchasers of gluten feed and meal,
by-products of petitioners' refining of corn, and allowance of discounts to certain favored purchasers of starch and starch products,
violated § 2 (a). P. 742.
(a) The statute does not require that the discriminations must
in fact have harmed competition, but only that there is a reasonable possibility that they "may" have such an effect. P. 742.

728

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

(b) From the evidence it was permissible for the Commission to
infer that these discriminatory allowances were a substantial threat
to competition. P. 742.
4. Petitioners' arrangement with the Curtiss Company for advertising
dextrose, on terms not proportionally accorded other purchasers,
violated § 2 (e) of the Clayton Act. P. 743.
(a) The arrangement was made with the Curtiss Company as
a "purchaser" within the meaning of the Act. The statute does
not require that the discrimination in favor of one purchaser against
another shall be provided for in a purchase contract or be required
by it. It is enough if the discrimination be made in favor of one
who is a purchaser and denied to another purchaser or other purchasers of the commodity. P. 743.
(b) The Curtiss Company, which purchased dextrose from petitioners and converted it with other ingredients into candy which
it sold, was a purchaser of a commodity bought for "resale," after
"processing," within the meaning of the Act. P. 744.
(c) The evidence shows that the discrimination in favor of the
Curtiss Company was a discrimination against sales in interstate
commerce. P. 745.
(d) The advertising furnished by petitioners was a service or
facility "connected with the processing . . . sale, or offering for
sale" of the commodity purchased by the Curtiss Company upon
terms not accorded to other purchasers. P. 745.
144 F. 2d 211, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 323 U. S. 706, to review a judgment sustaining an order of the Federal Trade Commission.
Mr. Parker McCollester, with whom Messrs. George

deForest Lord, Frank H. Hall and Samuel A. McCain were

on the brief, for petitioners.
Solicitor General Fahy, with whom Assistant Attorney
General Berge, Messrs. Charles H. Weston, Paul A.
Freund, Sigmund Timberg, W. T. Kelley and Walter B.

Wooden were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of
the Court.
Petitioners, a parent corporation and its sales subsidiary, use a basing point system of pricing in their sales

CORN PRODUCTS CO. v. COMM'N.
726

Opinion of the Court.

of glucose. They sell only at delivered prices, computed
by adding to a base price at Chicago the published freight
tariff from Chicago to the several points of delivery, even
though deliveries are in fact made from their factory at
Kansas City as well as from their Chicago factory. Consequently there is included in the delivered price on shipments from Kansas Cty an amount of "freight" which
usually does not correspond to freight actually paid by
petitioners.
The Federal Trade Commission instituted this proceeding under § 11 of the Clayton Act, c. 323, 38 Stat. 730,
15 U. S. C. § 21, charging that petitioners' use of this
single basing point system resulted in discriminations in
price between different purchasers of the glucose, and
violated § 2 (a) of the Act, as amended by § 1 of the
Robinson-Patman Act, c. 592, 49 Stat. 1526, 15 U. S. C.
§ 13. The complaint also charged petitioners with other
discriminations in prices, or in services rendered to favored
customers, which will presently be stated in detail, all in
violation of § 2 (a) or § 2 (e) of the Clayton Act, as
amended.
Section 2 (a) provides in part:
"(a) . . . it shall be unlawful for any person engaged
in commerce . . ., either directly or indirectly, to discriminate in price between different purchasers of commodities
of like grade and quality, . . . where the effect of such
discrimination may be substantially to lessen competition
or tend to create a monopoly in any line of commerce, or
to injure, destroy, or prevent competition with any person
who either grants or knowingly receives the benefit of such
discrimination, or with customers of either of them: Provided, That nothing herein contained shall prevent differentials which make only due allowance for differences in
the cost of manufacture, sale, or delivery resulting from the
differing methods or quantities in which such commodities
are to such purchasers sold or delivered . ."

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

After hearings, at which much of the evidence was
stipulated, the Commission made its findings of fact. It
concluded that petitioners had violated § 2 of the Clayton
Act, as amended, and ordered them to cease and desist
from such violations. On petition to review the Comm'ssion's order, the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh
Circuit sustained the order, except in particulars not material here. 144 F. 2d 211.
We granted certiorari, 323 U. S. 706, because the questions involved are of importance in the administration of
the Clayton Act in view of the widespread use of basing
point price systems. The principal questions for decision
are whether, when shipments are made from Kansas City,
petitioners' basing point system results in discriminations
in price between different purchasers of glucose, within
the meaning of § 2 (a); and, if so, whether there is support
in the evidence for the finding of the Commission that
these discriminations have the effect on competition defined by that section. Further questions are raised as to
whether the other discriminations charged violate § 2 (a)
and § 2 (e).
I. Basing Point Practices.
The evidence as to petitioners' basing point system for
the sale of glucose was stipulated. The Commission found
from the evidence that petitioners have two plants for the
manufacture of glucose or corn syrup, one at Argo, Illinois,
within the Chicago switching district, and the other at
Kansas City, Missouri. The Chicago plant has been in
operation since 1910, and that at Kansas City since 1922.
Petitioners' bulk sales of glucose are at delivered prices,
which are computed, whether the shipments are from
Chicago or Kansas City, at petitioners' Chicago prices,
plus the freight rate from Chicago to the place of delivery.
Thus purchasers in all places other than Chicago pay a
higher price than do Chicago purchasers. And in the case
of all shipments from Kansas City to purchasers in cities

CORN PRODUCTS CO. v. COMM'N.
726

Opinion of the Court.

having a lower freight rate from Kansas City than from
Chicago, the delivered price includes unearned or "phantom" freight, to the extent of the difference in freight rates.
Conversely, when the freight from Kansas City to the
point of delivery is more than that from Chicago, petitioners must "absorb" freight upon shipments from Kansas
City, to the extent of the difference in freight.
The Commission illustrated the operation of the system
by petitioners' delivered prices for glucose in bulk in
twelve western and southwestern cities, to which shipments were usually made from Kansas City. On August
1, 1939, the freight rates to these points of delivery from
Chicago were found to exceed those from Kansas City
by from 4 to 40 cents per hundred pounds, and to that
extent the delivered prices included unearned or phantom
freight. As petitioners' Chicago price was then $2.09
per hundred pounds, this phantom freight factor with
respect to deliveries to these twelve cities represented
from 2 to 19% of the Chicago base price. From this it
follows, as will presently be seen, that petitioners' net
return at their Kansas City factory on sales to these
twelve cities, in effect their f. o. b. factory price, varied
according to the amount of phantom freight included in
the delivered price.
Much of petitioners' glucose is sold to candy manufacturers, who are in competition with each other in the
sale of their candy. Glucose is the principal ingredient
in many varieties of low-priced candies, which are sold
on narrow margins of profit. Customers for such candies
may be diverted from one manufacturer to another by a
difference in price of a small fraction of a cent per pound.
The Commission found that the higher prices paid for
glucose purchased from petitioners by candy manufacturers located in cities other than Chicago, result in varying degree in higher costs of producing the candies. The
degree in each instance varies with the difference in the
delivered price of the glucose, and the proportion of glu-

732

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

cose in the particular candy. Manufacturers who pay unearned or phantom freight under petitioners' basing point
system necessarily pay relatively higher costs for their
raw material than do those manufacturers whose location
with relation to the basing point is such that they are
able to purchase at the base price plus only the freight
actually paid. The Commission found that the payment
of these increased prices imposed by the basing point
system "may . . . diminish" the manufacturers' ability to
compete with those buyers at lower prices.
The Commission concluded from these facts that petitioners' basing point system resulted in discriminations
in price among purchasers of glucose, and that the discriminations result in substantial harm to competition
among such purchasers. Petitioners challenge each conclusion.
First. Section 2 (a) of the Clayton Act, as amended,
makes it unlawful for any person, "either directly or indirectly, to discriminate in price between different purchasers of commodities of like grade and quality . . ."
The statute permits differentials "which make only due
allowance for differences in the cost of manufacture, sale,
or delivery . . ."
Petitioners' pricing system results inevitably in systematic price discriminations, since the prices they receive
upon deliveries from Kansas City bear relation to factors
other than actual costs of production or delivery. As in
the case of the twelve cities selected by the Commission
for illustrative purposes, the freight actually paid by petitioners in making deliveries usually varies from the freight
factor from Chicago, used in computing the delivered
price. When the actual freight is the lesser of the two,
petitioners charge and collect unearned or phantom
freight; when it is the greater, petitioners absorb the
excess freight, which they pay, but do not include in the
computation of their delivered price.

CORN PRODUCTS CO. v. COMM'N.
726

733

Opinion of the Court.

In either event, on shipments from Kansas City, the
delivered price to the purchaser depends not only on the
base price plus the actual freight from Kansas City, but
also upon the difference between the actual freight paid
and the freight rate from Chicago which is included in
the delivered price. This difference also results in varying net prices to petitioners at their factory at Kansas
City, according to the destination of the glucose. The
factory net varies according as petitioners collect phantom freight or absorb freight, and in each case in the
amount of this freight differential.' The price discriminations resulting from this systematic inclusion of the
freight differential in computing the delivered price are
not specifically permitted by the statute. Hence they
are unlawful, unless, as petitioners argue, there is an implicit exception to the statute for such a basing point
system.
' The illustrative prices found by the Commission show this sharply
varying factory net and also the amounts of phantom freight. The
figures given are upon deliveries from Kansas City for August 1,
1939, when the Chicago base price was $2.09.
A

B

Delivered
Price
(Pice
Freight (Chicago
from
Price,
Chicagof 2.09,
plus
Column
A)
Kansas City, Missouri$0.40
St. Joseph, Missouri. .40
Springfield, Missouri. _
.40
Fort Smith, Arkansas .65
Hutchinson, Kansas.
.61
Lincoln, Nebraska ...
.45
Sioux City, Iowa ----.--40
Waco, Texas -----------.
85
Sherman, Texas .....
.77
San Antonio, Texas....
.88
Denver, Colorado-.-.66
Salt Lake City, Utah..
.77

$2.49
2.49
2.49
2.74
2.70
2. 54
2. 49
2.94
2.86
2.97
2. 75
2.86

C

Actual
Freight
from
Kansas
City

$0.00
.09
.36
.45
.36
.13
.24
.. 63
.54
.69
.56
.67

D

E

F

Net to
vaiance n Phantom
n
Petitioners
Petitioners Petitioners'
at Factory Net from Freiht
in Kansas
m (Column
City
AColumn
minus
Colm
eliveries
mi nus at Kansas
C)
City
Column C)
$2.49
2.40
2.13
2.29
2.34
2.41
2.25
2.31
2.32
2.28
2.19
2.19

$0.00
-. 09
-. 36
-. 20
-. 15
-. 08
-. 24
-. 18
-. 17
-. 21
-. 30
-. 30

$0. 40
.31
.04
.20
.25
.32
.16
.22
.23
.19
.10
.10

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

Petitioners point out that there is no discrimination

under their basing point system between buyers at the
same points of delivery, and urge that the prohibition of
§ 2 (a) is directed only at price discriminations between
buyers at the same delivery points. There is nothing in
the words of the statute to support such a distinction, since
the statute is not couched in terms of locality. And its
purpose to prevent injuries to competition through price
discriminations would preclude any such distinction, not
required by its language. The purchasers of glucose from
petitioners are found to be in competition with each other,
even though they are in different localities. The injury
to the competition of purchasers in different localities is no
less harmful than if they were in the same city.
We find nothing in the legislative history of the Clayton or Robinson-Patman Acts to support the suggested
distinction. It is true that § 3 of the Robinson-Patman
Act, 15 U. S. C. § 13a, incorporating the Borah-Van Nuys
Bill, S. 4171, 74th Cong., 2d Sess., imposes criminal penalties for selling goods "in any part of the United States at
prices lower than those exacted . . . elsewhere in the
United States for the purpose of destroying competition . . ." But this section does not restrict the operation
of the prohibitions, with civil sanctions, of the RobinsonPatman amendments to § 2 (a) of the Clayton Act. This
was specifically pointed out by the Conference Report on
the Robinson-Patman Act.! H. Rep. No. 2951, 74th Cong.,
2d Sess., p. 8.
Petitioners further contend that basing point systems
were well known prior to the enactment of the RobinsonPatman Act and were considered by Congress to be legal.
From this petitioners conclude that they remained legal
in the absence of a clear command to the contrary. Cf.
2 The report said: "Section 3 authorizes nothing which that amendment [to § 2 of the Clayton Act] prohibits, and takes nothing from

it.,"

CORN PRODUCTS CO. v. COMM'N.
726

Opinion of the Court.

Parker v. Motor Boat Sales, 314 U. S. 244; Helvering v.
Griffiths, 318 U. S. 371. But we think that the premise
falls, and with it the conclusion, whatever it might be if
the premise were valid.
In support of the legality of basing point systems, petitioners rely on Maple FlooringAssn. v. United States, 268
U. S. 563, 570, and Cement ManufacturersAssn. v. United
States, 268 U. S. 588, 597. But these were suits to restrain
violations of the Sherman Act, and did not involve the
prohibition of the Clayton Act upon discriminations in
price. The only question for decision in those cases was
whether there was a concerted price-fixing scheme among
competing sellers, accomplished in part by their adoption
of a uniform basing point system; in fact, no prohibited
concert of action was found.
In any event, the basing point systems involved in those
cases were quite unlike that used by petitioners. In the
Maple Flooringcase, supra,the single basing point was so
close to most of the points of production as to result in but
trivial freight variances; and the defendants in that case
were willing to sell on a f. o. b. mill basis, whenever the
purchaser so requested. In the Cement case, supra, the
defendants used a multiple basing point system, with a
basing point at or near each point of production. Under
this system, any manufacturer, in order to compete in the
territory closer freightwise to another, would absorb
freight, by adjusting his mill price to make his delivered
price as low as that of his competitors. Under this system
the delivered price for any locality was determined by the
nearest basing point. We have no occasion to decide
whether a basing point system such as that in the Cement
case is permissible under the Clayton Act, in view of the
provisions of § 2 (b), permitting reductions in price in order to meet a competitor's equally low price. Cf. Federal
Trade Commission v. A. E. Staley Mfg. Co., post, p. 746.
When the Robinson-Patman Act was adopted in 1936,

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

there was no settled construction of the Clayton Act in
the federal courts contrary to that now urged by the Commission, as was the case with the measures involved in
Helvering v. Griffiths, supra. Nor was there any settled
administrative construction to the contrary. In fact in
1924 in the only decision involving the problem, the Federal Trade Commission, after extensive investigation and
hearings, ordered the United States Steel Corporation and
its subsidiaries to cease and desist from the sales of their
rolled steel products on the "Pittsburgh-Plus" price system. 8 F. T. C. 1. The Commission held that the use of a
single basing point at Pittsburgh for steel plants over the
country was a violation of § 2 of the Clayton Act, as well
as § 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, 15 U. S. C.
§ 45, as they then read. The respondents in that case
sought no review of the Commission's order and filed with
the Commission a formal statement of intended compliance with it.
Petitioners also rely on the failure of the Commission
to make further orders against basing point systems in
the period from 1924 to the passage of the Robinson-Patman Act in 1936. The Commission undertook no further
proceedings because of difficulties of enforcement which it
attributed to the exemption provisions of § 2 and to decisions of the lower federal courts in Clayton Act cases.
Instead it pressed for clarifying amendments to the Act.
See the Commission's Final Report on the Chain Store
Investigation (1936), Sen. Doc. No. 4, 74th Cong., 1st
Sess., pp. 89-90, 96-97. The Robinson-Patman Act was
adopted in response to the Commission's recommendation
that defects in § 2 be remedied and its prohibition of price
discrimination strengthened.
Finally, petitioners argue that Congress, by the rejection of a provision of the Robinson-Patman Bill, which
would have in effect prohibited all basing point systems,
has indicated its intention to sanction all such systems.

CORN PRODUCTS CO. v. COMM'N.
726

Opinion of the Court.

This provision, as reported to the House by the Committee
on the Judiciary, would have defined "price," as used in § 2
of the Clayton Act, as meaning "the amount received by
the vendor after deducting actual freight or cost of other
transportation, if any, allowed or defrayed by the
vendor."
The practical effect of this provision would have been
to require that the price of all commodities sold in interstate commerce be computed on an f. o. b. factory basis,
in order to avoid the prohibited discriminations in selling
price. It would have prohibited any system of uniform
delivered prices, as well as any basing point system of delivered prices. These effects were recognized n the Committee's report, see H. Rep. No. 2287, 74th Cong., 2d Sess.,
p. 14, and in the debates upon the Robinson-Patman Bill.
Cf. 80 Cong. Rec. 8118, 8223-8224. Indeed, the provision
would have prohibited such a multiple basing point system
as that in Cement Manufacturers Assn. v. United States,
supra,as well as the present system.
Such a drastic change in existing pricing systems as
would have been effected by the proposed amendment engendered opposition, which finally led to the withdrawal
of the provision by the House Committee on the Judiciary.
80 Cong. Rec. 8102, 8140, 8224. We think this legislative
history indicates only that Congress was unwilling to require f. o. b. factory pricing, and thus to make all uniform
delivered price systems and all basing point systems illegal
per se. On the contrary we think that it left the legality
of such systems to be determined accordingly as they might
be within the reach of § 2 (a), as enacted, and its more
restricted prohibitions of discriminations in delivered
prices.
We conclude that the discriminations involved in petitioners' pricing system are within the prohibition of the
Act. We pass to the question whether these discriminations had the prescribed effect on competition.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

Second. Section 2 (a) of the Clayton Act, as amended,
prohibits only discriminations whose "effect . . . may be
substantially to lessen competition . . . in any line of com-

merce, or to injure, destroy, or prevent competition with
any person who either grants or knowingly receives the
benefit of such discrimination, or with customers of either
of them: . . ."

Petitioners insist that the Commission's

findings, based upon the facts stipulated, do not support
its conclusion that petitioners' discriminations have the
prescribed effect.
It is to be observed that § 2 (a) does not require a finding that the discriminations in price have in fact had an
adverse effect on competition. The statute is designed to
reach such discriminations "in their incipiency," before
the harm to competition is effected. It is enough that
they "may" have the prescribed effect. Cf. Standard
FashionCo. v. Magrane-HoustonCo., 258 U. S. 346, 356357. But as was held in the StandardFashioncase, supra,
with respect to the like provisions of § 3 of the Clayton
Act, prohibiting tying clause agreements, the effect of
which "may be to substantially lessen competition," the
use of the word "may" was not to prohibit discriminations
having "the mere possibility" of those consequences, but
to reach those which would probably have the defined
effect on competition.
Since petitioners' basing point system results in a Chicago delivered price which is always lower than any other,
including that at Kansas City, a natural effect of the system is the creation of a favored price zone for the purchasers of glucose in Chicago and vicinity, which does not
extend to other points of manufacture and shipment of
glucose. Since the cost of glucose, a principal ingredient
of low-priced candy, is less at Chicago, candy manufacturers there are in a better position to compete for business, and manufacturers of candy located near other factories producing glucose, distant from the basing point,

CORN PRODUCTS CO. v. COMM'N.
726

Opinion of the Court.

as Kansas City, are in a less favorable position. The
consequence is, as found by the Commission, that several
manufacturers of candy, who were formerly located in
Kansas City or other cities served from petitioners' Kansas City plant, have moved their factories to Chicago.
Further, we have seen that prices in cities to which
shipments are made from Kansas City, are frequently
discriminatory, since the prices in such cities usually vary
according to factors, phantom freight or freight absorption,
which are unrelated to any proper element of actual cost.
And these systematic differentials are frequently appreciable in amount. The Commission's findings that glucose
is a principal ingredient of low priced candy and that
differences of small fractions of a cent in the sales price
of such candy are enough to divert business from one manufacturer to another, readily admit of the Commission's
inference that there is a reasonable probability that the
effect of the discriminations may be substantially to lessen
competition.
The weight to be attributed to the facts proven or
stipulated, and the inferences to be drawn from them,
are for the Commission to determine, not the courts. See
Federal Trade Commission v. Pacific States Paper Trade
Assn., 273 U. S. 52, 63; Federal Trade Commission v.
Algoma Lumber Co., 291 U. S. 67, 73; cf. Labor Board v.
Southern Bell Tel. Co., 319 U. S. 50, 60. We cannot say
that the Commission's inference here is not supported by
the stipulated facts, or that it does not support the Commission's order.
II. Booking Practices.
Ordinarily, when petitioners announce an advance in
the price of glucose, they allow their customers a period
of five days to "book" orders, that is, secure options to
purchase, at the old price, and a period of thirty days in
which to take delivery upon the options. The Commis-

740

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

sion charged that petitioners have further violated § 2
(a) of the Clayton Act, as amended, by permitting certain favored customers to secure options for the purchase
of glucose, and to take delivery at the old price, for periods
longer than those usually permitted to other customers.
The Commission also charged other violations of § 2 (a)
in that petitioners favored certain tank wagon customers
by permitting them to book orders at the lower prices
charged for tank car deliveries, and to take deliveries by
tank wagon over extended periods of time. The Commission found, upon ample evidence, that these discriminations were in fact made by petitioners.
Petitioners assert that the practices prohibited by § 2
(a) are discriminations in price, and not in the terms and
conditions of sale other than price. They rely on the
fact that in the course of the progress of the RobinsonPatman Bill through Congress, the phrase "terms of sale,"
originally included in the prohibited discriminations, was
stricken from the bill. But even if the contention be
accepted, we cannot ignore the fact that the present discriminations in the terms of sale operated to permit the
favored customers to purchase at a lower price than other
customers, so that their only practical effect was to establish discriminations in price, precisely the evil at which
the statute was aimed. And the Conference Committee,
in reporting on this elimination of the phrase "terms of
sale" from the bill, made it clear that § 2 (a) still applied
to indirect as well as direct discriminations in price. It
said that with the elimination of the phrase "terms of
sale," the act is inapplicable to "terms of sale except as
they amount in effect to the indirect discriminations in
price within the meaning of the remainder of subsection
(a)." H. Rep. No. 2951, 74th Cong., 2nd Sess., p. 5.
Petitioners also contend that these sales to favored

customers were to meet the competition of other sellers
of glucose, and were therefore excepted from the pro-

CORN PRODUCTS CO. v. COMM'N.
726

Opinion of the Court.

hibition of § 2 (a), by the proviso of subsection (b) of
§ 2 of the Clayton Act, as amended. Subsection (b)
provides:
"Upon proof being made, at any hearing on a complaint
under this section, that there has been discrimination in
price ....
the burden of rebutting the prima-facie case
thus made by showing justification shall be upon the person charged with a violation of this section, and unless
justification shall be affirmatively shown, the Commission
is authorized to issue an order terminating the discrimination: Provided, however, That nothing herein contained shall prevent a seller rebutting the prima-facie
case thus made by showing that his lower price ... was
made in good faith to meet an equally low price of a competitor . . ."
The only evidence said to rebut the prima facie case
made by proof of the price discriminations was given by
witnesses who had no personal knowledge of the transactions, and was limited to statements of each witness's
assumption or conclusion that the price discriminations
were justified by competition. Examination of the testimony satisfies us, as it did the court below, that it was
insufficient to sustain a finding that the lower prices allowed to favored customers were in fact made to meet
competition. Hence petitioners failed to sustain the burden of showing that the price discriminations were granted
for the purpose of meeting competition. Cf. FederalTrade
Commission v. A. E. Staley Mfg. Co., post, p. 746.
Finally it is contended that there was no evidence to
support the Commission's finding, which was referable
to these practices as well as petitioners' basing point practices, that the discriminations in price may diminish competition within the meaning of § 2 (a). This finding as
to the effect of both types of discrimination was based on
the same stipulation of facts which we have already considered in connection with the basing point practices.
637582°--46-51

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

Since the customers here are the same manufacturers of
low-priced candies as were there involved, and since the
price discriminations here are relatively substantial in a
field where differences of a fraction of a cent in the price
of candy are sufficient to divert business from one manufacturer to another, we think that the stipulation, which
we find to be applicable to these as well as the basing
point practices, is sufficient to support the finding of the
prescribed effect on competition.
III. Discounts to Purchasers of By-Products.

Still other price discriminations by petitioners charged
and found by the Commission were discounts allowed to
certain favored purchasers of gluten feed and meal, byproducts of petitioners' refining of corn, and other discounts allowed to certain favored purchasers of starch and
starch products. It was not and is not contended that
these allowances were due to differences in the cost of
manufacture, sale or delivery. But it is asserted that these
discriminations did not violate § 2 (a), since there was
not the requisite effect on competition.
It was stipulated, and the Commission found, that the
allowances in question were "sufficient," if and when reflected in whole or in substantial part in resale prices, to
attract business to the favored purchasers away from their
competitors, "or to force [their] competitors to resell . . .
at a substantially reduced profit, or to refrain from reselling." But it is asserted that there is no evidence that the
allowances ever were reflected in the purchasers' resale
prices. This argument loses sight of the statutory command. As we have said, the statute does not require that
the discriminations must in fact have harmed competition, but only that there is a reasonable possibility that
they "may" have such an effect. We think that it was permissible for the Commission to infer that these discriminatory allowances were a substantial threat to competition.

CORN PRODUCTS CO. v. COMM'N.
726

Opinion of the Court.

IV. Advertising Allowances.
The Commission also charged and found that petitioners violated § 2 (e) of the Clayton Act, which provides:
"(e) . . . it shall be unlawful for any person to discriminate in favor of one purchaser against another purchaser
or purchasers of a commodity bought for resale, with or
without processing, by contracting to furnish or furnishing,
or by contributing to the furnishing of, any services or
facilities connected with the processing, handling, sale, or
offering for sale of such commodity so purchased upon
terms not accorded to all purchasers on proportionally
equal terms."
The alleged violation consisted of advertising expenditures made by petitioners for the Curtiss Candy Company in order to promote the sale of dextrose or corn sugar
for use in candy manufacture. For this purpose petitioners entered into an arrangement with the Curtiss Candy
Company, whereby during the years 1936 to 1939 they
spent over $750,000 in advertising Curtiss candy as being
"rich in dextrose." At the same time, Curtiss advertised
its candy as being "rich in dextrose," and made the same
statement on its labels. While Curtiss was free to purchase dextrose used in the advertised candies from other
manufacturers, it in fact made all such purchases from petitioners, in annually increasing quantities until it purchased a total of seven million pounds in 1939. During
the same period it purchased of petitioners large quantities of glucose, the purchases increasing from nothing in
1937 to almost fifteen million pounds in 1939. Although
petitioners sold dextrose to others, it did not furnish proportionally equal advertising services to them.
Petitioners say that the advertising arrangement is not
forbidden by § 2 (e) because it was not made with the Curtiss Candy Company as a "purchaser." But during the
period in question the Curtiss Company was in fact a purchaser of petitioners' commodity. The Commission could

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

properly infer that the advertising for which petitioners
paid, contemplated the sale of that commodity to Curtiss,
and that the advertising contemplated the offering for
sale of the candy by Curtiss. Petitioners thus furnished
a service connected with the sale or offering for sale of
a commodity upon terms not accorded to other purchasers. The statute does not require that the discrimination in favor of one purchaser against another shall be provided for in a purchase contract or be required by it. It is
enough if the discrimination be made in favor of one who
is a purchaser and denied to another purchaser or other
purchasers of the commodity.
It is said also that the Curtiss Company was not a purchaser of a commodity "bought for resale, with or without processing" within the meaning of § 2 (e), since the
Curtiss Company buys dextrose from petitioners, but uses
it with other ingredients to produce candy, an entirely new
commodity, which it sells. While the Act does not define
the term "processing," the conversion of dextrose into
candy would seem to conform to the current understanding that processing is a mode of treatment of materials
to be transformed or reduced to a different state or thing.
See Cochrane v. Deener, 94 U. S. 780, 788. In view of the
purpose of the statute to prevent the enumerated discriminations attending the sale of a commodity for resale,
the precise nature or extent of the processing before resale
would seem to be immaterial. The statute is aimed at
discrimination by supplying facilities or services to a purchaser not accorded to others, in all cases where the -commodity is to be resold, whether in its original form or in
a processed product. The evils of the discrimination would
seem to be the same whether the processing results in little
or much alteration in the character of the commodity purchased and resold.
And finally it is said that the Commission was without
jurisdiction because the dextrose sold by petitioners to

CORN PRODUCTS CO. v. COMM'N.
726

Opinion of the Court.

Curtiss was not found to have been sold in interstate commerce; that if the section is construed to apply to such
transactions, it would be unconstitutional; and that, in
any case, there is no showing that the transactions complained of, although not themselves in interstate commerce, have in any way affected such commerce. But the
effect upon the commerce is amply shown by the interstate
and national character of the Curtiss Company's business;
by petitioners' advertising for Curtiss, which was itself
frequently in interstate commerce, amounting to $750,000;
and by Curtiss's own admission that it competed in the
sale of its candy in interstate commerce, with all manufacturers of one cent and five cent bars of candy. Moreover, some of petitioners' sales to other companies, to
whom these allowances were not accorded, were made in
interstate commerce; thus there was a discrimination
against sales in interstate commerce, well within the
power of the Commission to remedy.
Petitioners make a number of other arguments or contentions of lesser moment which we have considered but
find it unnecessary to discuss. We conclude that the advertising furnished by petitioners was a service or facility
"connected with the processing . . . sale, or offering for
sale" of the commodity purchased by the Curtiss Company upon terms not accorded to other purchasers, and
therefore violated the statute.
The several violations of §§ 2 (a) and 2 (e) of the Clayton Act, found by the Commission, sustained by the court
below, and brought here for review, fall within the prohibitions of the Act. The Commission's conclusions are
amply supported by its findings and the evidence, and the
judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON concurs in the result.

