OCTOBER TERM, 1944.

30

Counsel for Parties.

324 U. S.

the meaning thus settled, has been reenacted by Congress.' The construction should be followed until Congress sees fit to change it.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

REPUBLIC OF MEXICO

ET AL.

v. HOFFMAN.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 455.

Argued January 11, 12, 1945.-Decided February 5, 1945.

1. The decisions of the two courts below that the vessel in question
was not in the possession or service of the Mexican government
are supported by the evidence. P. 33.
2. A merchant vessel owned but not possessed by a friendly foreign government held not immune from a suit in rem in admiralty,
where the Department of State has refrained from certifying
that it allows the immunity or recognizes ownership of the vessel
without possession by the foreign government as a ground for
immunity. Pp. 36, 38.
3. Since the Department of State has long and consistently followed
the policy of recognizing immunity from suit of a vessel in the
possession and service of a foreign government, the courts have
allowed such immunity upon proof of such possession and use
even when not certified by the Department of State. P. 36.
4. It is the duty of the courts, in a matter so intimately associated
with our foreign policy and which may profoundly affect it, not
to enlarge an immunity to an extent which the Government, though
it has had numerous opportunities, has not seen fit to recognize.
P. 38.
143 F. 2d 854, affirmed.

323 U. S. 697, to review the affirmance of a
judgment for the libellant in a suit in rem in admiralty.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. Morris Lavine for petitioners.
14 Congress withdrew the exclusion, as to gifts in trust, in the Revenue
Act of 1938, c. 289, 52 Stat. 447, § 505, amending § 504 (b) of the 1932
Act. But it was restored, though reduced to $3,000, by the Revenue
Act of 1942, e. 619, 56 Stat. 798, § 454.

MEXICO v. HOFFMAN.
30

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Harold A. Black, with whom Messrs. FarnhamP.
Griffiths and Allan P. Matthew were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The question is whether, in the absence of the adoption
of any guiding policy by the Executive branch of the government, the federal courts should recognize the immunity
from a suit in rem in admiralty of a merchant vessel solely
because it is owned though not possessed by a friendly
foreign government.
Respondent, owner and master of the Lottie Carson, an
American fishing vessel, filed a libel in rem in the district
court for southern California against the Baja California,
her engines, machinery, tackle and furniture, for damage
alleged to have been caused when the Baja California
negligently caused her tow to collide with the Lottie Carson in Mexican waters. The Mexican Ambassador to the
United States, acting in behalf of his government, thereupon filed in the district court a suggestion that the Baja
California at all times mentioned in the libel and at the
time of her seizure was owned by the Republic of Mexico
and in its possession, and engaged in the transportation
of cargoes between the ports of the Republic of Mexico
and elsewhere. Libellant put in issue the allegations of
the suggestion that title to the Baja California was at any
time in the Mexican government and denied that she was
in that government's possession, public service or use.
Trial of these issues proceeded upon stipulated evidence.
In the meantime the United States Attorney for the
District, acting under the direction of the Attorney General, filed in the district court a communication from the
Secretary of State to the Attorney General, in which the
State Department called attention to the claim of the
Mexican government, already detailed. The Department

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

took no position with respect to the asserted immunity of
the vessel from suit other than to cite Ervin v. Quintanilla,
99 F. 2d 935, and Compania Espanola v. The Navemar,
303 U. S. 68. In Ervin v. Quintanilla,supra,the asserted
immunity from suit of the San Ricardo, a vessel of the
Mexican government, was allowed by the court on the
ground that at the time of her seizure upon a libel in rem
she was in the possession and service of that government.
And in Compania Espanola v. The Navemar, supra, the
State Department having failed to recognize the claimed
immunity of the Spanish vessel Navemar, alleged to have
been expropriated by and in the possession of the friendly
Republic of Spain at the time of her seizure upon a libel
in rem, this Court denied the claimed immunity on the
ground that the libelled vessel was not shown to have been
in the possession and public service of the foreign
government.
The district court was unable to find, under the rule of
The Navemar, supra, any ground for relinquishing the
jurisdiction over the vessel, and accordingly denied the
claim of immunity. The Mexican government then filed
an answer to the libel by which it put in issue the material
allegations of the libel on the merits and renewed its claim
of sovereign immunity from the suit. The court then
proceeded with the trial on the merits.
A second suggestion was then filed by the United States
Attorney at the direction of the Attorney General, transmitting a communication from the State Department,
stating that it accepted as true the contention that the
Baja California was the property of the Mexican government and that it recognized a statement by the Mexican
Ambassador that his government would meet any liability
decreed against the vessel as a binding international undertaking. The district court denied the claim of immunity, finding that the ship was in "the possession, opera-

MEXICO v. HOFFMAN.
30

Opinion of the Court.

tion, and control" of the Compania Mexicana de Navigacion del Pacifico, S. de R. L. This was a privately owned
and operated Mexican corporation engaged in the commercial carriage of cargoes for hire for private shippers.
On the merits the district court gave judgment for the
libellant.
The Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
affirmed, 143 F. 2d 854, holding on the authority of The
Navemar, supra, and The Katingo Hadjipatera, 119 F.
2d 1022, that the Baja California, although owned by the
Mexican government, was not immune from suit because
not in its possession and service. We granted certiorari,
323 U. S. 697, on a petition which presented the question
whether title of the vessel without possession in the Mexican government is sufficient to call for judicial recognition of the asserted immunity.
The decisions of the two courts below that the vessel
was not in the possession or service of the Mexican government are supported by evidence and call for no extended review here. It is sufficient that it appears that
before the injury to the Lottie Carson the Baja California
was delivered by the Mexican government to the privately
owned and operated Mexican corporation under a contract for a term of five years. As provided by the contract
the corporation was to operate the vessel at its own expense in a private freighting venture on the high seas
between Mexican ports and between them and foreign
ports, and did so operate the vessel until her seizure upon
the libel. The officers and crew were selected, controlled
and paid by the corporation. For the use of the vessel the
corporation agreed to pay to the Mexican government
fifty per cent of the net profits of operations but undertook
to bear all net losses.
The principal contention of petitioner is thatour courts
should recognize the title of the Mexican government as

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

a ground for immunity from suit even though the vessel
was not in the possession and public service of that government. Ever since The Exchange, 7 Cranch 116, this
Government has recognized such immunity from suit, of
a vessel in the possession and service of a friendly foreign
government, L'Invincible, 1 Wheat. 238, 252; The Divina
Pastora,4 Wheat. 52, 64; United States v. Cornell Steamboat Co., 202 U. S. 184, 190; Ex parte Muir, 254 U. S. 522,
531-533; The Pesaro, 255 U. S. 216, 219; Ex parte New
York, 256 U. S. 503, 510; Compania Espanola v. The
Navemar, supra, 74; Ex parte Peru, 318 U. S. 578, 588, a
practice which seems to have been followed without serious difficulties to the courts or embarrassment to the
executive branch of the government. And in The Exchange, Chief Justice Marshall introduced the practice,
since followed in the federal courts, that their jurisdiction
in rem acquired by the judicial seizure of the vessel of a
friendly foreign government, will be surrendered on recognition, allowance and certification of the asserted immunity by the political branch of the government charged
with the conduct of foreign affairs when its certificate to
that effect is presented to the court by the Attorney
General. United States v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196, 209; Ex
parte Muir, supra, 533; The Pesaro, supra, 217; CompaniaEspanolav. The Navemar, supra,74; Ex partePeru,
supra, 588. This practice is founded upon the policy
recognized both by the Department of State and the
courts that the national interests will be best served when
controversies growing out of the judicial seizure of vessels
of friendly foreign governments are adjusted through diplomatic channels rather than by the compulsion of judicial proceedings. Compania Espanola v. The Navemar,
supra;Ex parte Peru, supra.
In the absence of recognition of the claimed immunity
by the political branch of the government, the courts may
decide for themselves whether all the requisites of immu-

MEXICO v. HOFFMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

30

nity exist. That is to say, it is for them to decide whether
the vessel when seized was that of a foreign government
and was of a character and operated under conditions entitling it to the immunity in conformity to the principles
accepted by the department of the government charged
with the conduct of our foreign relations. See Ex parte
Peru, supra, 588.
Every judicial action exercising or relinquishing jurisdiction over the vessel of a foreign government has its
effect upon our relations with that government. Hence
it is a guiding principle in determining whether a court
should exercise or surrender its jurisdiction in such cases,
that the courts should not so act as to embarrass the executive arm in its conduct of foreign affairs. "In such
cases the judicial department of this government follows
the action of the political branch, and will not embarrass
the latter by assuming an antagonistic jurisdiction."
United States v. Lee, supra, 209; Ex parte Peru, supra,
588.
It is therefore not for the courts to deny an immunity
which our government has seen fit to allow, or to allow an
immunity on new grounds which the government has not
seen fit to recognize.' The judicial seizure of the property
of a friendly state may be regarded as such an affront to
salutary principle was not followed in Berizzi Bros. Co. v.
The Pesaro,271 U. S. 562, where the court allowed the immunity, for
the first time, to a merchant vessel owned by a foreign government
and in its possession and service, although the State Department had
declined to recognize the immunity. The propriety of thus extending
the immunity where the political branch of the government had
refused to act was not considered.
Since the vessel here, although owned by the Mexican Government,
was not in its possession and service, we have no occasion to consider
the questions presented in the Berizzi case. It is enough that we find
no persuasive ground for allowing the immunity in this case, an important reason being that the State Department has declined to
recognize it.
1 This

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

its dignity and may so affect our relations with it, that it is
an accepted rule of substantive law governing the exercise of the jurisdiction of the courts that they accept and
follow the executive determination that the vessel shall
be treated as immune. Ex parte Peru, supra, 588. But
recognition by the courts of an immunity upon principles
which the political department of government has not
sanctioned may be equally embarrassing to it in securing
the protection of our national interests and their recognition by other nations.
When such a seizure occurs the friendly foreign government may adopt the procedure of asking the State Department to allow it. But the foreign government may
also present its claim of immunity by appearance in the
suit and by way of defense to the libel. In such a case the
court will inquire whether the ground of immunity is one
which it is the established policy of the department to
recognize. Ex parte Muir, supra, 533; Compania Espanola v. The Navemar, supra, 74. Such a policy, long
and consistently recognized and often certified by the
State Department and for that reason acted upon by the
courts even when not so certified, is that of allowing the
immunity from suit of a vessel in the possession and service of a foreign government.
It has been held below, as in The Navemar, to be decisive of the case that the vessel when seized by judicial
process was not in the possession and service of the foreign
government. Here both courts have found that the Republic of Mexico is the owner of the seized vessel. The
State Department has certified that it recognizes such
ownership, but it has refrained from certifying that it
allows the immunity or recognizes ownership of the vessel
without possession by the Mexican government as a
ground for immunity. It does not appear that the Department has ever allowed a claim of immunity on that
ground, and we are cited to no case in which a federal court

MEXICO v. HOFFMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

30

has done so. In The Davis, 10 Wall. 15, this Court held
that a salvage lien was enforcible against property belonging to but not in actual possession of the United
States, and in this it followed a decision of Judge Story
in United States v. Wilder, Fed. Cas. No. 16,694. And in
The Fidelity, Fed. Cas. No. 4,758, Chief Justice Waite
said of the ruling of The Davis: "Property does not necessarily become a part of the sovereignty because it is owned
by the sovereign. To make it so it must be devoted to the
public use and must be employed in carrying on the operations of the government."
In the case of The Navemar, supra, the Spanish Ambassador asserted on behalf of the Spanish Republic that
the seized vessel was the property of the Republic, acquired by expropriation from a Spanish National, but the
claim of immunity which had not been recognized by our
government was rejected by the Court on the ground that
the Spanish government was not in possession of the vessel
at the time of her arrest.!
The lower federal courts have consistently refused to
allow claims of immunity based on title of the claimant
2 The Cristina, [1938] A. C. 485, in which the immunity was recognized, seems to have proceeded on the ground that the possession taken
in behalf of the friendly foreign government was actual. Similarly in
The Arantzazu Mendi, [1939] A. C. 256, 263, the sovereign was "in
fact in possession of the ship." In The Jupiter, [1924] P. 236, 241,244
(cf. The Jupiter No. 2, [1925] P. 69; The JupiterNo. 8, [1927] P. 122,
125), it appeared that before the suit was brought the master had repudiated the possession and ownership of the plaintiffs and held the
vessel for the claimant government. And in The Porto Alexandre,
[1920] P. 30, 34, the vessel had been requisitioned under the order of
the foreign government and on the particular voyage was carrying
freight for that government. In The Annette; The Dora, [1919]
P. 105, 111, an alternative ground of decision was that the sovereign
had parted with possession. The Court said: "If it is not in possession,
the Court interferes with no sovereign right of the government by
arresting the vessel, nor does it, by arresting the vessel, compel the
government to submit to the jurisdiction or to abandon its possession."
637582 --46--7

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
FRANKFURTER, J.,

concurring.

324 U. S.

foreign government without possession, both before The
Navemar, supra,Long v. The Tampico, 16 F. 491, 493, 494
(opinion by Judge Addison Brown); The Johnson Lighterage Co. No. 24, 231 F. 365; The Attualita, 238 F. 909;
The Carlo Poma, 259 F. 369, 370, reversed on other
grounds, 255 U. S. 219; The Beaverton, 273 F. 539, 540;
and since, Ervin v. Quintanilla,supra, 941; The Uxmul,
40 F. Supp. 258, 260; The Katingo Hadjipatera,40 F.
Supp. 546, 119 F. 2d 1022; The Ljubica Matkovic, 49 F.
Supp. 936.
Whether this distinction between possession and title
may be thought to depend upon the aggravation of the
indignity where the interference with the vessel ousts the
possession of a foreign state, Sullivan v. Sao Paulo, 122
F. 2d 355, 360, it is plain that the distinction is supported
by the overwhelming weight of authority. More important, and we think controlling in the present circumstances,
is the fact that, despite numerous opportunities like the
present to recognize immunity from suit of a vessel owned
and not possessed by a foreign government, this government has failed to do so. We can only conclude that it
is the national policy not to extend the inmmunity in the
manner now suggested, and that it is the duty of the
courts, in a matter so intimately associated with our foreign policy and which may profoundly affect it, not to
enlarge an immunity to an extent which the government,
although often asked, has not seen fit to recognize. We
have considered but do not find it necessary to discuss other
contentions of petitioner, as they are without merit.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

concurring.

In Berizzi Bros. Co. v. The Pesaro, 271 U. S. 562, this
Court held for the first time that "merchant ships owned
and operated by a foreign government have the same
immunity that warships have." It did so not because the

MEXICO v. HOFFMAN.
30

FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

Department of State by appropriate suggestion or through
its established policy had indicated that due regard for our
international relations counseled such an abnegation of
jurisdiction over government-owned merchantmen. On
the contrary. In answer to an inquiry by Judge Mack,
before whom the Pesaro's claim to immunity was first
raised, the Department of State took this position: "It is
the view of the Department that government-owned
merchant vessels or vessels under requisition of governments whose flag they fly employed in commerce should
not be regarded as entitled to the immunities accorded
public vessels of war. The Department has not claimed
immunity for American vessels of this character." The
Pesaro, 277 F. 473, 479-480, note 3; and see 2 Hackworth,.
Digest of International Law, pp. 429-430,438-439. Thus,
in Berizzi Bros. Co. v. The Pesaro, supra, this Court felt
free to reject the State Department's views on international policy and to formulate its own judgment on what
wise international relations demanded. The Court now
seems to indicate, however, that when, upon the seizure
of a vessel of a foreign government, sovereign immunity is
claimed, the issue is whether the vessel "was of a character and operated under conditions entitling it to the
immunity in conformity with the principles accepted by
the department of the government charged with the conduct of our foreign relations."
If this be an implied recession from the decision in
Berizzi Bros. Co. v. The Pesaro, I heartily welcome it.
Adjudication should not borrow trouble by worrying about
a case not calling for decision. It is for me not borrowing
trouble to raise the relation of the Pesaro decision to the
situation now before the Court. I appreciate that the
disposition of the present case turns on the want of possession by the Republic of Mexico. My difficulty is that
"possession" is too tenuous a distinction on the basis of
which to differentiate between foreign government-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
FRhANKFURTER, J.,

concurring.

324 U. S.

owned vessels engaged merely in trade that are immune
from suit and those that are not. Possession, actual or
constructive, is a legal concept full of pitfalls. Even where
only private interests are involved the determination of
possession, as bankruptcy cases, for instance, abundantly
prove, engenders much confusion and conflict. Ascertainment of what constitutes possession or where it is,
is too subtle and precarious a task for transfer to a field
in which international interests and susceptibilities are
involved.
If the Republic of Mexico now saw fit to put one junior
naval officer on merchantmen which it owns but are
operated by a private agency under arrangements giving
that Government a financial interest in the venture, it
would, I should suppose, be embarrassing to find that
Mexico herself did not intend to be in possession of such
ships. And, certainly, the terms of the financial arrangement by which the commercial enterprise before the Court
is carried on can readily be varied without much change in
substance to manifest a relation to the ship by Mexico
which could not easily be deemed to disclose a want of possession by Mexico.
The fact of the matter is that the result in Berizzi Bros.
Co. v. The Pesaro,supra, was reached without submission
by the Department of State of its relevant policies in the
conduct of our foreign relations and largely on the basis
of considerations which have steadily lost whatever
validity they may then have had. Compare the overruling of The Thomas Jefferson, 10 Wheat. 428 (1825), by
The Genesee Chief, 12 How. 443 (1851). The views of our
State Department against immunity for commercial ships
owned by foreign governments have been strongly supported by international conferences, some held after the
decision in the Pesaro case. See Lord Maugham in
Compania Naviera Vascongado v. The Cristina [1938]
A. C. 485,521--523. But the real change has been the enor-

MEXICO v. HOFFMAN.
30

FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

mous growth, particularly in recent years, of "ordinary
merchandising" activity by governments. See The Western Maid, 257 U. S. 419, 432. Lord Maugham in the
Cristina thus put the matter:
"Half a century ago foreign Governments very seldom
embarked in trade with ordinary ships, though they not
infrequently owned vessels destined for public uses, and
in particular hospital vessels, supply ships and surveying
or exploring vessels. These were doubtless very strong
reasons for extending the privilege long possessed by ships
of war to public ships of the nature mentioned; but there
has been a very large development of State-owned commercial ships since the Great War, and the question
whether the immunity should continue to be given to
ordinary trading ships has become acute. Is it consistent
with sovereign dignity to acquire a tramp steamer and to
compete with ordinary shippers and ship-owners in the
markets of the world? Doing so, is it consistent to set
up the immunity of a sovereign if, owing to the want of
skill of captain and crew, serious damage is caused to the
ship of another country? Is it also consistent to refuse
to permit proceedings to enforce a right of salvage in respect of services rendered, perhaps at great risk, by the
vessel of another country?" [1938] A.C. 485, 521-522.
And so, sensible as I am of the weight to which the
decision in the Pesaro is entitled, its implications in the
light of the important developments in the international
scene that twenty years have brought call for its reconsideration. The Department of State, in acting upon
views such as those expressed by Lord Maugham, should
no longer be embarrassed by having the decision in the
Pesaro remain unquestioned, and the lower courts should
be relieved from the duty of drawing distinctions that are
too nice to draw.
It is my view, in short, that courts should not disclaim
jurisdiction which otherwise belongs to them in relation

42

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Syllabus.

324 U. S.

to vessels owned by foreign governments however operated except when "the department of the government
charged with the conduct of our foreign relations," or of
course Congress, explicitly asserts that the proper conduct of these relations calls for judicial abstention.
Thereby responsibility for the conduct of our foreign relations will be placed where power lies. And unless constrained by the established policy of our State Department, courts will best discharge their responsibility by
enforcement of the regular judicial processes.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

joins in this opinion.

HOUSE v. MAYO, STATE PRISON CUSTODIAN.
ON

MOTION

FOR LEAVE

TO FILE PETITION

FOR WRIT

OF

HABEAS CORPUS AND PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI.

No. 921.

Decided February 5, 1945.

A petition to the federal district court for a writ of habeas corpus,
by one confined under a state court sentence for burglary, alleged
that the trial court, without warning and over the petitioner's
protests, forced him to plead to the information without the aid
and advice of his counsel, whose presence he requested. The district judge denied the petition and also denied a certificate of probable cause for an appeal under 28 U. S. C. § 466. The circuit
court of appeals denied a timely application for allowance of an
appeal. Held:
1. The case is reviewable here by certiorari not under § 240 (a)
but under § 262 of the Judicial Code. P. 44.
2. Review here by certiorari under § 262 extends not only to
the question whether the circuit court of appeals abused its discretion in refusing to allow the appeal but also to questions on
the merits sought to be raised by the appeal. P. 44.
3. The petition for habeas corpus sufficiently alleged a denial
of the petitioner's constitutional right to a fair trial. P. 46.
4. The decision of the district court denying habeas corpus on
the ground that the questions sought to be raised had been fairly
adjudicated by the state courts was unsupported, since the basis

