204

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Syllabus.

324 U. S.

The petitioner insists that, as the initiation of the
liquidation of American was voluntary, no cause of action against stockholders arose by reason of this action.
But we think that where a bank closes its doors and ceases
to transact business the right of creditors or of a receiver
to enforce stockholders' liability matures at the time of
such closing whether as a result of voluntary action or of
adverse action by the Comptroller of the Currency, or of
the appointment of a receiver, if at that time the bank was
insolvent, as American undoubtedly was, if the respondents' claim was taken into the reckoning."
The judgment of the court below was right and must be
affirmed.
Affirmed.

YOUNG v. HIGBEE COMPANY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 342.

Argued February 1, 1945.-Decided February 26, 1945.

From a decree confirming a plan of reorganization under Chapter X
of the Bankruptcy Act, an appeal was taken by P and B, holders of
preferred stock. The appeal was based largely upon objections to
allowances made to junior claimants; and, had it been successful,
the preferred stockholders as a class would have benefited. For a
consideration paid to them, P and B transferred their stock to junior
claimants and agreed to abandon the appeal. Petitioner, also a
holder of preferred stock, sought to intervene and prosecute the
appeal. The Circuit Court of Appeals denied leave and dismissed
the appeal. Petitioner thereupon filed in the bankruptcy court a
petition, on behalf of himself and all other preferred stockholders,
seeking an accounting by P and B to the debtor or to the preferred
stockholders, for the excess of the amount which they had received
over the fair value of their stock. Held:
0 Compare Richmond v. Irons, 121 U. S. 27, 48, 50.

YOUNG v. HIGBEE CO.
204

Opinion of the Court.

1. The Circuit Court of Appeals' dismissal of the appeal over
petitioner's attempt to intervene did not bar petitioner's subsequent

petition for an accounting. P. 208.
2. The fruit of the appeal by P and B belongs to all of the
preferred stockholders. P. 213.
3. The bankruptcy court has jurisdiction to award the relief
prayed. P. 214.
4. The alleged improper motive of the petitioner does not warrant denial of the prayer for relief, which was made on behalf of all
the stockholders. P. 214.
142 F. 2d 1004, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 323 U. S. 689, to review a judgment which
affirmed the bankruptcy court's dismissal of an application for relief.

Mr. Robert W. Purcell, with whom Mr. James A. Butler was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Marvin C. Harrisonfor respondents.
Solicitor General Fahy, Messrs. Roger S. Foster,Milton
V. Freeman, Theodore L. Thau and David Ferberfiled a
brief on behalf of the Securities & Exchange Commission,
as amicus curiae, urging reversal.
BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case presents the question of the accountability
of stockholders who objected to the confirmation of a plan
of reorganization under the Bankruptcy Act,' and abandoned their appeal for a consideration to themselves,
where the basis of the appeal was that, if successful, it
would benefit the entire class.
The Higbee Company, a department store with assets
of more than six million dollars, filed a voluntary petition
MR. JUSTICE

IThe proceedings were begun in 1935 under § 77B, 11 U. S. C.
207. June 22, 1938, Congress passed the Chandler Act, and the
provisions of Chapter 10 of the Act were thereafter applicable to
these proceedings. 52 Stat. 883-905, 11 U. S. C. 501-676.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

for reorganization. It had three types of stocks: common,
and first and second preferred. Two of its directors,
Bradley and Murphy, claimed that they had acquired by
purchase a junior debt against the company of $1,952,000.00. A plan for reorganization was presented under
which the owners of this junior debt were to be awarded
$600,000.00 in new notes and a large block of common
stock. Potts and Boag, respondents here, and owners of
some shares of first preferred, objected to confirmation
of the plan. They contended, on several grounds, that
unless the junior debt was subordinated to the preferred
stock claims, the plan allotted that indebtedness too great2
a share in the distribution of the bankrupt's. assets.
When the stockholders' committee of which they were
members approved the plan, Potts and Boag resigned and
announced the formation of a new committee to press
their objections to the junior debt allowance. Notwithstanding these objections, the Securities & Exchange Commission recommended the plan's acceptance, 8 S. E. C.
777, and the District Court confirmed it. 50 F. Supp. 114.
Potts and Boag appealed from the District Court's decree
confirming the plan. Although appealing as individuals,
their appeal was based almost entirely on objections. to
allowances for the junior indebtedness which left less for
distribution among all the preferred stockholders. Their
appeal sought no separate individual relief for them2

This $1,952,000.00 junior indebtedness consisted of subordinated

notes of the Higbee Company which had been bought by Midamerica
Corporation for $100,000.00 at an auction sale in 1935. Potts and
Boag consistently maintained that the junior debt's participation in
Higbee's assets should be limited to $100,000.00. They charged that
Bradley was a director of Higbee and of Midamerica, and thus occupied two conflicting fiduciary positions. They insisted that the
court should find this junior debt to be "invalid and unenforceable
in whole or in part" and "subordinated to the First and Second Preferred Stock."

YOUNG v. HIGBEE CO.
204

207

Opinion of the Court.

selves; they appealed only to have the confirmation set
aside. Had their appeal succeeded, the District Court
would have been required to reduce the value of junior
claims asserted by Bradley and Murphy, thereby increasing the value of the claims of the preferred stockholders
as a class.
In this situation, Potts and Boag sold their stock and
their appeal' to Bradley and Murphy, claimants under
the junior debt; the consideration paid was $115,000.00.
The par value of this stock was $26,000.00. Its admitted
market value at the time, as the court below found, was
$17,000.00. Pursuant to this contract for sale of the appeal a stipulation for dismissal was filed in the Circuit
Court of Appeals. Petitioner Young, a preferred stockholder of the same class, sought to intervene and prosecute
the appeal. His petition was denied and the case was dismissed without opinion. Young then, on behalf of himself and all other preferred stockholders, filed a petition in
the District Court setting up these facts and praying that
a Potts' testimony as to the sale was:

"Q. So that in a sense you were selling something more than your
stock, I take it? A. I think so.

"Q. You were selling the appeal which you had taken in behalf of
yourself and Mr. Boag; that is a fair statement, isn't it? A. I think
so.,

The written contract between Potts and Boag and Bradley and
Murphy specifically provided for sale of the appeal as well as the
stock. It reads in part:
"I hereby sell, assign, transfer and set over unto Charles L. Bradley
and John P. Murphy, and their assigns, 260 shares of First Preferred
stock of The Higbee Company, of Cleveland, Ohio, . . . together
with all rights, title and interest, benefits or privileges we, or either
of us, have or may have in and to or by virtue of or arising from the
matter of The Higbee Company, Debtor, J. Fred Potts and William
W. Boag, Appellants, vs. The Higbee Company, Appellee, and a certain appeal taken by J. Fred Potts and William W. Boag in said proceedings, which said appeal is now pending in the United States Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit . . ."

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

he be authorized to employ counsel to compel Potts and
Boag to account to the debtor for the difference between
what they received and the fair value of their stock, or
praying in the alternative that Potts and Boag be required
to pay over that amount to the preferred stockholders.'
After a hearing, a special master found as a fact that Potts
and Boag had appealed in behalf of themselves only and
had not acted as representatives of a class. The District
Court approved this finding, thought it determinative of
the case, and dismissed Young's petition. The Circuit
Court of Appeals affirmed. 142 F. 2d 1004. Because considerations of substantial importance to the effective administration of corporate reorganizations are involved,
we granted certiorari, 323 U. S. 689.'
First. It is argued that since the Circuit Court of Appeals dismissed the appeal of Potts and Boag over Young's
attempt to intervene, Young is estopped from prosecuting
the present petition. This contention has no merit, for
the reason, among others, that the determinative issues
4

1n both courts below Young sought an order against Bradley and
Murphy as well as Potts and Boag but Bradley and Murphy have not
been made respondents in this Court.
5The petitioner has made the following statement to this Court
with reference to the respondent Boag:
"During the course of the appeal in the Circuit Court of Appeals
it first came to Petitioner's attention that Respondent Boag had
entered the Armed Services. No one representing Boag has appeared
to request a stay of proceedings pending his return. However, Petitioner has no desire to cause judgment to be entered against Boag
under these circumstances. It would be entirely satisfactory to have
the proceedings stayed as to Boag pending his return, although no
rights against him are waived."
Under these circumstances no judgment against Boag will be entered
in this case and the proceedings in the Circuit Court of Appeals will
be stayed as to him. Soldiers' & Sailors' Civil Relief Act of 1940,
54 Stat. 1178.

YOUNG v. HIGBEE CO.
204

Opinion of the Court.

in the two proceedings were not the same. The first petition did not pray for an accounting by Potts and Boag.
The court only decided then that Young could not intervene and continue that appeal, and that the appeal should
be dismissed. Now, accepting the court's dismissal of the
appeal as final, Young seeks an accounting for the consideration paid Potts and Boag for agreeing to dismiss.
Second. It is argued that since Potts and Boag did not
expressly specify that they appealed in the interest of the
whole class of preferred stockholders, but appealed only
in their own names, they owed no duty to any stockholders
but themselves. The appeal here, however, was not from
a denial of any individual claim of Potts and Boag. Its
basis was that every other preferred stockholder, as well
as themselves, would be injured by confirmation. So far
as the issues raised by the appeal are concerned, the rights
of Potts and Boag and the other preferred stockholders
were inseparable. Thus, even though their objection to
confirmation contained no formal class suit allegations,
the success or failure of the appeal was bound to have a
substantial effect on the interests of all other preferred
stockholders. The liability of one who assumes a determining position over the rights of others must turn on
something more substantial than mere formal allegations
in a complaint.6 Equity looks to the substance and not
merely to the form.
Furthermore, the right of appeal granted by a statute
should not be interpreted in such way as to defeat rights
clearly granted in other parts of the same Act. Peck v.
Jenness, 7 How. 612, 623. Potts and Boag appealed un6 Sprague v. Ticonic Bank, 307 U. S. 161. See Atlas Bank v. Nahant
Bank, 23 Pick. (Mass.) 480; Whitten v. Dabney, 171 Cal. 621, 154
P. 312; Honesdale Co. v. Montgomery, 56 W. Va. 397, 49 S. E. 434;
Rawnsley v. Trenton Mutual Life Ins. Co., 9 N. J. Eq. 95; Wood v.
Dummer, 30 Fed. Cas. 435, No. 17,944.

210

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

der § 206 of the Chandler Act, which, contrary to the general bankruptcy procedure, grants any stockholder or
creditor the right to be heard on all matters relating to
corporate reorganizations. Courts have liberally construed this language as authorizing appeals.7 We are now
asked to say that the privilege of appeal granted to Potts
and Boag by the Act vested them with an indefeasible
right to sell the privilege to the disadvantage of all other
stockholders in their class. But, historically one of the
prime purposes of the bankruptcy law has been to bring
about a ratable distribution among creditors of a bankrupt's assets; to protect the creditors from one another.
And the corporate reorganization statutes look to a ratable distribution of assets among classes of stockholders
as well as creditors. There would be no ratable distribution of this bankrupt estate if Potts and Boag could utilize
their statutory right of appeal to get for their preferred
stock $7.00 for every $1.00 paid to other preferred stockholders. We are asked to say that Congress intended such
a consequence, and to construe the right of a stockholder
to be heard on a plan of reorganization as carrying with
it the right to "sell" the very appeal which the Act grants
him.
Potts and Boag, by appealing from a judgment which
affected a whole class of stockholders, owed an obligation
to them, the full extent of which we need not now delineate. Certainly, at the very least they owed them an
obligation to act in good faith. If Potts and Boag had declined to accept this plan in bad faith, the court, under
7In
re Keystone Realty Holding Co., 117 F. 2d 1003; Dana v.
S. E. C., 125 F. 2d 542; ef. Amick v. Mortgage Security Corp., 30 F.
2d 359.
8
Boese v. King, 108 U. S. 379, 385-386; Sampsell v. Imperial Paper
Corp., 313 U. S. 215, 219; ef. Case v. Los Angeles Lumber Co., 308
U. S. 106. See also 66 Pa. L. Rev. 224; Senate Document No. 65, 72nd
Cong., 1st Sess., 6, 10, 49-93.

YOUNG v. HIGBEE CO.
204

211

Opinion of the Court.

§ 203,9 could have denied them the right to Vote on the
plan at all. The history of this provision makes clear that
it was intended to apply to those stockholders whose selfish
purpose was to obstruct a fair and feasible reorganization
in the hope that someone would pay them more than the
ratable equivalent of their proportionate part of the bankrupt assets.'0 If Potts' and Boag's opposition to confirmation sprang from such a purpose (and Potts and Boag
did obstruct confirmation until they were able to "sell"
0 "Sec. 203.
If the acceptance or failure to accept a plan by the
holder of any claim or stock is not in good faith, in the light of or
irrespective of the time of acquisition thereof, the judge may, after
hearing upon notice, direct that such claim or stock be disqualified
for the purpose of determining the requisite majority for the acceptance of a plan." 52 Stat. 894.
10 A year before the House Committee on the Judiciary held its
extensive hearings on the Chandler Act, a Circuit Court of Appeals
held that a creditor could not be denied the privilege of voting on a
reorganization plan under § 77B, although he bought the votes for
the purpose of preventing confirmation unless certain demands of
his should be met. Texas Hotel Corp. v. Waco Development Co., 87
F. 2d 395. The hearings make clear the purpose of the Committee
to pass legislation which would bar creditors from a vote who were
prompted by such a purpose. To this end they adopted the "good
faith" provisions of § 203. Its purpose was to prevent creditors from
participating who "by the use of obstructive tactics and hold-up
techniques exact for themselves undue advantages from the other
stockholders who are cooperating." Bad faith was to be attributed
to claimants who opposed a plan for a time until they were "bought
off"; those who "refused to vote in favor of a plan unless ... given
some particular preferential advantage." Hearings on Revision of
the Bankruptcy Act before the Committee on the Judiciary of the
House of Representatives, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., on H. R. 6439, Serial
9, pp. 180-182.
See also, on the same general topic, McLaughlin, Capacity of
Plaintiff-Stockholder to Terminate a Stockholder's Suit, 46 Yale L. J.
421; Hornstein, Problems of Procedure in Stockholder's Derivative
Suits, 42 Col. L. Rev. 574, Rodgers and Groom, Reorganization of
Railroad Corporations under Section 77 of the Bankruptcy Act, 33
Col. L. Rev. 571, 588-601.

212

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

their appeal) they were acting in bad faith within the
statutory meaning of that term. And accepting money
as the end result of such a statutory violation cannot vest
them with a right to keep it. Payment to them of this
money simply meant that the distribution of bankrupt
assets to the junior debt claimants, who paid Potts and
Boag, would represent a smaller net value. The statute
contemplates, and the appeal was taken on the assumption, that the less the junior claimants were awarded the
more all the preferred stockholders would receive. Therefore, the consideration of the sale which Potts and Boag
made was not merely their own interest in the bankrupt
estate, but the interest of all the preferred stockholders.
The situation which enabled them to traffic in the interests of others was created by a statute passed to protect
the interests of all of them.1 The statute neither compels
them to appeal nor to prosecute an appeal already taken
contrary to their own interests; it does impose upon
them the duty of good faith to all other stockholders whose
interests they temporarily control because they are necessarily involved in the appeal. This control of the common rights of all the preferred stockholders imposed on
Potts and Boag a duty fairly to represent those common
rights. 2 This representative responsibility is emphasized
11See Federal Communications Comm'n v. Sanders Radio Station,
309 U. S. 470, 476-7; Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. OregonWashington R. Co., 288 U. S. 14, 25-7.
12By virtue of their standing as sole appellants, Potts and Boag,
during the pendency of the appeal, dominated the fate of the reorganization as completely as though they had been the majority
stockholders of a going corporation. Cf. Southern Pacific Co. v.
Bogert, 250 U. S. 483, 492: "But the doctrine by which the holders
of a majority of the stock of a corporation who dominate its affairs
are held to act as trustees for the minority, does not rest upon such
technical distinctions. It is the fact of control of the common prop-.
erty held and exercised, not the particular means by which or manner
in which the control is exercised, that creates the fiduciary obligation.
. . . The essential of the liability to account sought to be enforced

YOUNG v. HIGBEE CO.
204

Opinion of the Court.

by the fact that they might have been awarded compensation for their services had they succeeded in reducing the
claim of the junior indebtedness to the advantage of all
the preferred stockholders. § 243; cf. § 249. In re Keystone Realty Holding Co., 117 F. 2d 1003, 1006. They
cannot avail themselves of the statutory privilege of litigating for the interest of a class and then shake off their
self-assumed responsibilities to others by a simple announcement that henceforth they will trade in the rights
of others for their own aggrandizement. To hold that the
Chandler Act permits this, would be to say that Congress,
which sought more effectively to accomplish fair and
equitable treatment of investors, had, by granting a right
of appeal to stockholders, defeated its purpose, and had
substantially modified the whole body of law imposing
the most rigorous responsibilities for fair dealing upon
those who represent the rights of others."
The money Potts and Boag received in excess of their
own interest as stockholders was not paid for anything
they owned. It came to them in settlement of litigation
which if carried to a successful conclusion would have
added to the value of other preferred stockholders of the
common debtor. That the suit was settled and dismissed
does not alter the rights of parties as to distribution of the
fruits of the settlement. A distinction as to rights arising
from litigation, which rests upon the difference between
a judgment and a settlement of a lawsuit, under these
circumstances, as in others, is "too formal to be sound."
Lyeth v. Hoey, 305 U. S. 188, 195, 196; Helvering v. Safe
in this suit lies not in fraud or mismanagement, but in the fact that,
having become a fiduciary through taking control of the old Houston
Company, the Southern Pacific has secured fruits which it has not
shared with the minority. The wrong lay not in acquiring the stock,
but in refusing to make a pro rata distribution on equal terms among
the old Houston Company shareholders.
18 Cf. Woods v. City Bank, 312 U. S. 262, 267-269; Meinhard v.
Salmon, 249 N. Y. 458, 164 N. E. 545.
637582 -46-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

Deposit & Trust Co., 316 U. S. 56, 63-67. The appeal of
Potts and Boag was alleged to be for the benefit of all preferred stockholders. In the contemplation of the statute
which authorized the appeal, its fruit properly belongs to
all the preferred stockholders. One creditor, therefore,
cannot make that fruit his own by a simple appropriation
of it. Cf. Terry v. Little, 101 U. S. 216, 218.
Third. It is argued that even though the money paid
in excess of the stock value does in equity and good conscience belong to the stockholders, the bankruptcy court
is without power to award the relief prayed. Courts of
bankruptcy are courts of equity and exercise all equitable
powers unless prohibited by the Bankruptcy Act. Securities & Exchange Comm'n v. United States Realty Co., 310
U. S. 434, 455. The District Court still has jurisdiction to
exercise its powers under the Act both because of its express reservation and because of the provisions of § 222.14
That power is ample to authorize the court to order an
accounting for the funds in dispute here. Pepper v. Litton, 308 U. S. 295, 303-310; American United Ins. Co. v.
Avon Park,311 U. S. 138, 145-147; ConsolidatedRock Co.
v. DuBois, 312 U. S. 510, 521-523.
Nor can we sustain the contention that relief should be
denied on the allegations that Young's motive in bringing
the proceeding is an unworthy one. His petition sought
relief for the benefit of all the stockholders. The rights
of these stockholders are not to be ignored because of some
motive attributable to Young.
Reversed.
The CHIEF JUSICE and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON concur
in the result.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS dissents.
This Section gives the judge power, under conditions applicable
here, to alter and modify a reorganization plan even after confirmation.
14

