OCTOBER TERM, 1944.

774

Counsel for Parties.

324 U. S.

V. HANCOCK TRUCK
LINES, INC.

UNITED STATES

ET AL.

NO. 448.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF .THE
UNITED STATES FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT- OF
INDIANA.*

Argued March 27, 1945.-Decided April 23, 1945.
1. The period for taking an appeal to this Court from a final decree
of a District Court of three judges in a suit to set aside an order
of the Interstate Commerce Commission is sixty days. P. 776.
2. An appeal to this Court from a final decree of a District Court of
three judges may be allowed by a single judge. P. 777.
3. It was. improper for the District Court to reverse an order of the
Interstate Commerce Commission in respect of a provision therein
as to which the suitor had advised the Commission that it no longer
objected but acquiesced. P. 779.
Reversed.

from a decree of a district court of three judges
which set aside in part an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission, 42 M. C. C. 547.
APPEAL

Mr. Edward Dumbauld, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Berge, Messrs. Robert
L. Pierce, Walter J. Cummings, Jr., Daniel W. Knowlton
and Nelson Thomas were on the brief, for appellants in
No. 448. Mr. B. W. La Tourette, with whom Messrs. G.
M. Rebman and Howell Ellis were on the brief, for appellant in No. 449.
*Together with No. 449, Regular Common Carriers Conference of
American Trucking Associations, Inc. v. Hancock Truck Lines, Inc.,
also on appeal from the District Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Indiana.

U. S. v. HANCOCK TRUCK LINES.
774

775

Opinion of the Court.

Messrs. Albert Ward and FerdinandBorn, with whom
Mr. Jacob Weiss was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court..
The appellee is a motor carrier. With the approval
of the Interstate Commerce Commission it acquired the
operating rights of Globe Cartage Company, another such
carrier, which then had pending before the Commission an
application for a certificate of convenience and necessity
under §§ 206 (a) and 209 (a) of the Interstate Commerce
Act.' The appellee prosecuted the application as Globe's
successor to obtain a certificate authorizing the exercise of
Globe's so-called "grandfather" rights, that is, to continue
Globe's operations as they were conducted July 1, 1935.
The Commission made an order awarding a certificate
to appellee as a common carrier, but for less than all the
routes embraced in the application and restricting appellee's operations to traffic moving on the bills of lading of
freight forwarders.2 The record discloses that the appellee filed a petition for reconsideration, in which it pressed
for amendment of the order as respects the routes permitted, but waived objection to the restriction of its traffic
to service of freight forwarders. It stated: "We do not
challenge, nor do we complain against, the restriction to
serve only freight forwarders." There is more to the same
effect.
The Commission denied the petition.
The appellee
brought suitI to set aside and enjoin only
so much of the Commission's order as restricted its operations to traffic moving on bills of lading of freight forward149 U. S.C.§§ 306 (a), 309 (a).
.2 41-M: C. C. 313; 42 M. C. C. 547.
3
Pursuant to 28 U. S. C. §§ 41 (28), 43-48.

776

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

ers. A district court of three judges heard the case, and
issued a permanent injunction as prayed. One of these
judges allowed an appeal to this court on a petition filed
by the appellants more than thirty but less than sixty
days after entry of the decree. The appellant in No. 449
intervened before the Commission in opposition to the appellee's application, and was permitted to intervene as a
defendant in the court below. No circumstance differentiates its status from that of the appellants in No. 448,
and what is said concerning that case may be taken as
applicable to No. 449.
The appellee moved to dismiss on the ground that the
appeal was not timely taken and was improperly allowed
by a single judge. We postponed the question of our
jurisdiction to the hearing on the merits. After argument
and upon consideration we find ourselves in the anomalous
position that whereas we hold we have jurisdiction, we cannot pass upon the substantive question of the statutory
power of the Commission which is the ground of appeal.
First. Since the appeal is from the final decree of a statutory court of three judges, and not from the entry of a
preliminary injunction the period for taking an appeal is
sixty days,-not thirty days as appellee contends.
When by the Act of October 22, 19131 the Commerce
Court was abolished and its jurisdiction transferred to district courts, definite provision was made for direct appeal
to this court, within thirty days, from an order granting
or denying an interlocutory injunction in a suit to set aside
an order of the Commission. In a later sentence the Act
declares "A final judgment or decree of the district court
may be" likewise reviewed "if appeal . . . be taken . . .
within sixty days" after entry. The appellee's contention,
as we shall see, rests on the assumption that when the Act
speaks of a final decree, it is addressed to final decrees in
438 Stat. 208, 219-220.

778

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

allow an appeal. Since appeal is of right, allowance would
seem to be but a ministerial act which might be performed
by any member of the court. Our past practice has apparently sanctioned such an allowance. But if the proper
procedure was formerly a matter of doubt, such doubt has
been removed.
Section 3 of the Act of April 6, 1942 1 provides that in
such a case as this a single judge may "enter all orders
required or permitted by the Rules of Civil Procedure for
the District Courts of the United States in effect at the
time," with a proviso not here relevant. There is a further
proviso that his action shall be subject to review "at any
time prior to final hearing," by the court as constituted at
final hearing. This, however, is obviously inapplicable to
action taken subsequent to final hearing. Rule 72 states
that an appeal to this court from a district court shall be
allowed "as prescribed by law and the Rules of the Supreme
Court of the United States governing such an appeal."
Rule 36 of this court authorizes a single judge of a district
court to grant such an appeal.
Third. The court below held that the Commission erred
in granting appellee a certificate as a common carrier and
limiting its right thereunder to carriage of goods consigned
by freight forwarders. This is the holding the appellants
challenge. We are of opinion that the record precludes
consideration and decision of the question.
As has been stated, the appellee, in its petition for reconsideration by the Commission, expressly waived objection
to that portion of the order which limited operations to
traffic moving on bills of lading to freight forwarders. The
Commission's answer to the complaint in the district court
recited the filing of that petition and alleged that in it
"the plaintiff limited its objections to said report and order,
to the Commission's prescription of the routes over which
10

56 Stat. 198, 199; 28 U. S. C. § 792.

U. S. v. HANCOCK TRUCK LINES.
Opinion of the Court.

774

cases other than those brought to set aside orders of the
Commission. But we think this reading incorrect. The
paragraph as a whole deals with the same type of suit.
On this erroneous assumption the appellee insists that
when the Act of February 13, 1925 ' restricted direct review of district court judgments in this field by repealing
various earlier legislation, but saving from repeal "so
much" of the Act of 1913 "as relates to the review of interlocutory and final judgments and decrees in suits to enforce, suspend, or set aside orders" of the Commission, the
sentence of the earlier Act applicable to final judgment
was repealed because it did not deal with judgments in
suits to set aside Commission orders. The argument is, to
some extent, based on the fact that when the United States
Code was compiled the sentence of the Act of 1913 dealing
with appeals from interlocutory injunctions became § 47
of Title 28 and the sentence dealing with appeals from final
judgments was omitted from the Title. The omission was
corrected in 1934 by inserting the latter sentence as § 47a.6
The face of the statutes, the uniform practice of this
court I and the legislative history 8 make against the contention that appeals from final decrees in the class of cases
in question must be taken within thirty days.
Second. We hold the objection that appeal was allowed
by but one of the three judges who composed the district
court is untenable. The Act of October 22, 1913 (supra)
requires that n a case such as this both the hearing in respect of an interlocutory injunction and the final hearing
shall be by three judges.' It says nothing as to who shall
43 Stat. 936.
8 A like correction was made in § 345.

7 Reference to the records of the court discloses that it has repeatedly
entertained appeals taken more than thirty but less than sixty days
after entry of final judgment.
8 Hearings H. R. 8206, 68th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 15; Senate Report on
S. 2060, 68th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 16.
See 28 U. S. C. § 47.

U. S. v. HANCOCK TRUCK LINES.
774

Opinion of the Court.

operating authority was granted therein, expressly waived
objection to, and did not challenge or complain against
the restriction of the transportation authorized to commodities consigned by freight forwarders and gave up all
claim to the right to transport general commodities not so
consigned." To this answer the appellee filed a reply consisting of one paragraph in which it denied the allegation
above quoted, without explanation or elaboration.
The Commission and the United States filed in the court
below a request for findings of fact which included a requested finding reciting the filing of the petition for reconsideration, and stated the "sole error alleged against
the Commission was that it granted authority for operation only as to a portion of the routes and between some
of the points and places specified in the application. In
said petition the plaintiff further stated that it did not
challenge nor complain against the restriction of the service authorized to the transportation of commodities which
are moving on bills of lading of freight forwarders." The
court made no such finding.
The only assignment of error which may be said to attack the failure so to find is one couched in general terms.
It is: "The District Court erred . . . 4. In refusing to
adopt the findings of fact and conclusions of law submitted
by the defendants."
Putting to one side the question whether such an assignment is too general and broad to support a challenge
to the court's failure to find as requested, and despite the
fact that, neither on brief nor in oral argument, did the
appellants' counsel press for reversal on that ground, we
think the district court committed reversible error, of
which we must take note, in passing on the merits of the
case made by the appellee.
It was manifestly improper to reverse the Commission's
order in respect of a provision therein as to which the
suitor had advised that body it no longer objected but

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.

780

Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

acquiesced. The record disclosed this situation, the defensive pleading relied upon it, and the court was asked
to dismiss because of it. The complaint should have been
dismissed. The judgment is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK concurs in the result.
COPPERWELD STEEL CO. v. INDUSTRIAL COMMISSION OF OHIO.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF OHIO.

No. 684. Argued April 5, 6, 1945.-Decided April 23, 1945.
The state court decision of which review is here sought was grounded
upon the view that the appellant had not pursued the remedy afforded by state law for the vindication of any constitutional right
claimed to have been violated; so the appeal must be dismissed and
certiorari denied. P. 785.
143 Ohio St. 591, 56 N. E. 2d 154, appeal dismissed; certiorari denied.
APPEAL

from a judgment sustaining a demurrer in pro-

ceedings challenging the validity of awards made to employees of the appellant by the state commission.
Mr. Robert G. Day, with whom Messrs. H. H. Hoppe,
Frank R. S. Kaplan, Maurice J. Mahoney and E. P.
McHugh, Jr. were on the brief, for appellant.
Albertus B. Conn, Assistant Attorney General, and Mr.
E. G. Schuessler, with whom Hugh S. Jenkins, Attorney
General, was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The appellant conducts a manufacturing plant at Warren, Ohio, and is an employer as the term is defined by the
workmen's compensation law of the State. In an original

