OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Counsel for Parties.

324 U. S.

sider the question concerning adequacy of the appeal or
possible existence of other remedy affecting such a case
when it arises.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

and MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS concur

in the result.
GEMSCO, INC. ET AL. v. WALLING, ADMINISTRATOR OF THE WAGE AND HOUR DIVISION, U. S.
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR.
NO. 308.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE SECOND CIRCUIT.*

Argued December 5, 1944.--Decided February 26, 1945.
Under § 8 (f) of the Fair Labor Standards Act, the Administrator has
authority, as a necessary means of making effective a minimum wage
order for the embroideries industry, to prohibit industrial homework. Pp. 254, 269.
144 F. 2d 608, affirmed.

323 U. S. 695, to review a judgment affirming a wage order promulgated by the Administrator under
the Fair Labor Standards Act.
CERTIORARI,

Messrs. Samuel S. Allan and Seymour D. Altmark, with
whom Messrs. Walter Brower, Samuel J. Cohen, Coleman
Gangel, Ilo Orleans and Myron P. Gordon were on the
brief, for petitioners.
*Together with No. 369, Maretzo et al. v. Walling, Administrator
of the Wage and Hour Division, U. S. Department of Labor, and
No. 370, Guiseppi et al. v. Walling, Administrator of the Wage and
Hour Division, U. S. Department of Labor, also on certiorari to the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.

GEMSCO, INC. v. WALLING.
244

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Archibald Cox, with whom Solicitor General Fahy,
Messrs. Douglas B. Maggs, Louis Sherman and Kenneth
Meiklejohn were on the brief, for respondent.
Briefs were filed by Messrs. Nathaniel L. Goldstein,
Attorney General of New York, Orrin G. Judd, Solicitor
General, Wendell P. Brown, First Assistant Attorney
General, and Roy Wiedersum, Assistant Attorney General, on behalf of the Industrial Commissioner of the State
of New York, and by Messrs. John H. Nolan, Attorney
General of Rhode Island, and John J. Cooney, on behalf
of the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations,
as amici curiae, in support of the respondent.
MR.

JUSTICE RUTLEDGE delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The issue to be decided in these cases is narrow. It is
whether respondent, as Administrator, has authority
under § 8 (f) of the Fair Labor Standards Act, 52 Stat.
1060, to prohibit industrial homework as a necessary
means of making effective a minimum wage order for the
embroideries industry. The question arises in proceedings
brought to review the order pursuant to § 10. The cases
were consolidated for hearing in the Circuit Court of Appeals, which sustained the Administrator's action, one
judge dissenting. Guiseppi v. Walling, 144 F. 2d 608.
Because of the public importance of the question and its
importance for purposes of administering the statute, certiorari was granted, 323 U. S. 695, limited to the stated
issue.
One of the Act's primary objectives was "a universal
minimum wage of 40 cents an hour in each industry
1 The petition sought review also on questions of due process and

delegation of legislative power. Cf. note 10 infra.
637582'---46

20

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for
commerce" and to reach this level as rapidly as was "economically feasible without substantially curtailing employment." § 8 (a). Accordingly, § 6 established basic
minimum statutory wages, to be stepped up from 25 cents
an hour to 40 cents generally 2 during the seven years from
the section's effective date, October 23, 1938. Limited
flexibility was provided in accordance with the declared
purpose to reach the 40-cent level earlier if "economically
feasible." Cf. 83 Cong. Rec. 9256. Section 8 empowers
the Administrator to convene industry committees which,
after investigation, report to him their recommendations
concerning minimum wages 8 and reasonable classifications. § 8 (a), (b), (c), (d). The Administrator is then
required by order to approve and carry into effect the committee's recommendations, after notice to interested persons and opportunity to be heard, if he finds they "are
made in accordance with law, are supported by the evidence . . . and . . . will carry out the purposes" of the
section; otherwise he must disapprove them. § 8 (d).
The Act's scheme is therefore a combination of "statutory" minimum wages fixed by § 6 and what may be
termed "committee" wages,4 fixed by order made pursuant
2

Section 6 (a) (3), cf. also § 8 (e) and text infra page 267, provides

for issuance and continuance in effect of wage orders, to some extent
at least, after the seven-year period: "Sec. 6 (a). Every employer shall
pay to each of his employees .. .(3) after the expiration of seven
years . . . not less than 40 cents an hour, or the rate (not less than
30 cents an hour) prescribed in the applicable order of the Administrator issued under section 8, whichever is lower . . ."
3 "The committee shall recommend to the Administrator the highest minimum wage rates for the industry which it determines, having
due regard to economic and competitive conditions, will not substantially curtail employment in the industry." § 8 (b). Recommendations for classifications are covered by § 8 (c).
4
Cf. the concurring opinion of L. Hand, C. J., 144 F. 2d 608, 623.
The combination is the result of a compromise, reached in con-

GEMSCO, INC. v. WALLING.
244

Opinion of the Court.

to § 8. The former prevail in the absence of special administrative action; the latter, when such action has been
taken to prescribe for a specific industry a higher level
than the generally prevailing statutory floor. The order in
this case, entered on approval of the committee's recommendations, after notice and extensive hearings,5 prescribed a minimum wage of 40 cents an hour, an increase
ference, of differences between the Senate and the House as to the
structure of the bill. Cf. text infra at note 32.
5
The Industry Committee (No. 45) was appointed June 6, 1942,
and on June 30 following submitted its unanimous report and recommendations, for the 40-cent rate, to the Administrator. Published
notice of public hearing was given September 16. The hearing extended over ten days of the following November. The Administrator
broadened its scope to include the question "what, if any, prohibition,
restriction, or regulation of home work in this industry is necessary
to carry out the purpose of such order," etc.
Industry representatives, who appeared, were unanimous, with one
exception, in supporting the committee's recommendation, but divided
on restricting or prohibiting industrial homework. Labor representatives supported both proposals, as did representatives of federal
and state agencies, including the Departments of Labor of the United
States and of the States of New York and Rhode Island.
Extensive testimony was taken and many exhibits were received
in evidence. In many of its aspects the Administrator found the evidence repetitious of that upon which previous findings were based
approving the recommendations of an earlier industry committee
(No. 15), which resulted in establishing the 37 1/2-cent rate by order
effective January 27, 1941. Oral argument was restricted to the
question of homework, to which the greater part of the record of
1,691 pages relates. The procedure was substantially that which had
been followed, upon the same question, in the cases of six other industries. See the Administrator's Findings and Opinion on the minimum
wage recommendation of Industry Committee No. 26 for, and industrial homework in, the Jewelry Manufacturing Industry, dated
October 16, 1941, and in relation to the Knitted Outerwear Industry
(March 30, 1942), Women's Apparel Industry (July 8, 1942), Gloves
and Mittens Industry (August 22, 1942), Button and Buckle Manufacturing Industry (September 19, 1942), and Handkerchief Manufacturing Industry (January 22, 1943).

248

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

of 2 cents over the previously prevailing "committee"
rate.6 Petitioners have not contested this, the primary,
term of the order.
In this statutory setting stands § 8 (f), the crucial provision which in material part is as follows:
"(f) Orders issued under this section shall define the
industries and classifications therein to which they are to
apply, and shall contain such terms and conditionsas the
Administrator finds necessary to carry out the purposes
of such orders, to prevent the circumvention or evasion
thereof, and to safeguard the minimum wage rates estab-

lished therein. No such order shall take effect until after
due notice is given . . ." (Emphasis added.)
I
The narrow issue turns upon the scope properly to be
given the emphasized portions of the section. Respondent says that this auth6rizes him to take whatever action
he finds necessary to prevent circumvention or evasion
of the order so that the wage rate it establishes may be
safeguarded; and that in this case his findings, amply
0 The provision for the 40-cent rate became effective September
20, 1943. The order provided the prohibition of homework should
become effective after November 15, 1943. But the date was postponed, successively, until July 26, 1944, when the Circuit Court of
Appeals stayed enforcement until this Court should act on the petition for certiorari.
The Administrator found that "the estimated direct increase in the
wage bill resulting from the establishment of a minimum wage rate
of 40 cents an hour would be 1.2 per cent in the three main areas and
2.6 per cent in the other areas." These findings are related to others
to the effect that "almost 90 percent of the embroidery establishments are located in the New York City (including northern New
Jersey), Chicago, and Philadelphia metropolitan areas. . . ." The
Administrator concluded that "the insignificant rise in operating
costs which will result from the recommended minimum will not
cause substantial curtailment of employment." Cf. § 8 (b), (d).

GEMSCO, INC. v. WALLING.
244

249

Opinion of the Court.

sustained by the evidence, show prohibition of industrial
homework is necessary to accomplish this end. As applied in this case, he has construed "necessary" not as
meaning "helpful," "consistent," or "convenient," but
as connoting that the prohibition is absolutely essential
to achieve those purposes. He says the wage rate cannot
be maintained unless industrial homework is prohibited,
with the comparatively minor exceptions the order allows.8 His findings and indeed his express conclusions
therefore necessarily determine that regulation, by measures short of prohibition, cannot accomplish the relevant
purposes of the order and of the statute.'
7

8

Cf. Armour & Co. v. Wantock, 323 U. S. 126.
The exceptions relate to persons obtaining special homework

certificates who are "unable to adjust to factory work because of"
age, physical or mental disability or are unable to leave home because
their presence is required to care for an invalid; and were engaged
in industrial homework in the industry prior to November 2, 1942
(except that this requirement is not to be applied in cases of unusual
hardship) or are engaged in such homework under the supervision
of a state vocational rehabilitation agency or a sheltered workshop
as defined in the Code of Federal Regulations.
0 The Administrator's opinion reviews at length the conditions surrounding homework in the industry inevitably tending to produce
violation of minimum wage requirements; and the efforts previously
made under both state and federal legislation to overcome these
tendencies by regulatory measures.
His conclusions, upon the evidence, were in general that both state
and federal efforts at regulation had been ineffective; that violations
were widespread, of great variety and in great part concealed; and
that these were due to factors inherent in the conditions under which
industrial homework is performed and impossible to correct by the
regulatory measures applied.
The Administrator's review of efforts at regulation, by both state,
cf. note 17 infra, and federal authorities prior to the Fair Labor
Standards Act, led him to conclude "that labor conditions in industrial
home work are not susceptible to regulation," and that, according to
"the nearly unanimous viewpoint of Federal and State officials having
experience in the administration of labor laws .... regulation, re-

250

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

Petitioners do not dispute the Administrator's findings
of fact or that the evidence fully sustains them. Nor
indeed do they question his conclusions in any respect
except that he has no legal authority to make the prohibition.10 The petition for certiorari conceded, as does also
the brief, that the prohibition was included solely because
respondent found "he could not [otherwise] enforce the
minimum wage rate as to the home workers employed in
the industry." The brief states further that petitioners,
"during the entire course of the proceedings, . . . challenged only the statutory authority" of the respondent to
include the prohibition.
In this sharply chiseled state of the issue, the accuracy
of the Administrator's findings and conclusions and the
sufficiency of the evidence to sustain them must be taken
striction or prohibition of industrial home work must be on a
Nation-wide basis if minimum wage standards are to be preserved
and upheld."
Likewise, "experience under the Fair Labor Standards Act of
1938 [to November, 1942] has also indicated that labor conditions
in industrial homework in this Industry are not susceptible to regulation that will guarantee that the home worker will be paid the
established minimum rate ....

Compliance with the Act has been

the exception rather than the rule." Cf. note 16 infra. Such homework, it is further concluded, "furnishes a ready means of circumventing or evading the minimum wage order for this Industry" and
"mere regulation . . . including regulation of the record-keeping
practices of employers or governmental establishment of piece rates
will not be adequate to secure enforcement of the minimum wage
order for the Embroideries Industry."
10 In the petition for the writ of certiorari the only questions presented were (1) whether the statute authorizes inclusion of the prohibition as a "term and condition" of the wage order; (2) whether, if
so, this delegation of authority is confined by adequate standards; and
(3) whether the Fifth Amendment forbidi Congress to authorize the
prohibition "solely because of the inability to enforce the minimum
Wage rate applicable to homeworkers, without regard to the social
and economic character of such employment." Cf. .note 1 and text
supra.

GEMSCO, INC. v. WALLING.
244

Opinion of the Court.

not only as true but as conceded, apart from the single
question of authority to include the prohibition notwithstanding it is so buttressed in fact." The posture of the
case therefore compels acceptance of the Administrator's
position that, without the prohibition, the wage rate cannot be maintained, and that circumvention and evasion
cannot be prevented.
Furthermore, upon the findings that is true not only
with reference to the employees who are themselves homeworkers. It is true also as to all other employees in the industry. 2 According to the best available estimates, the
number of homeworkers at peak employment (April 1,
1939, to July 15, 1942) ranged from 8,500 to 12,000,
whereas the number of factory workers as of June, 1942,
was 18,500. The number of wage earners per factory
in 1939 employed in some 1,431 establishments averaged
between 12 and 13 workers.1' Not only therefore is it im"By § 10, "The review by the court shall be limited to questions of
law, and findings of fact by the Administrator when supported by sub-

stantial evidence shall be conclusive."
12 The Administrator's report stated: "It was testified at the hearing that home work is cheaper in terms of labor costs than factory
work and is used by employers to reduce production costs, despite the
advantages derived from the direct supervision over production, standardization, and specialization which are possible in the factory. The
evidence . . . conclusively shows that large proportions of home work
employees . . . are paid less than the applicable minimum. It is

apparent that if some employers are allowed to utilize home workers at
subminimum wage scales, other employers compelled to pay a 40-cent
minimum will be placed at a competitive disadvantage."
13 The nature of homework, it was said, is such that estimates of the
number of homeworkers in this industry are difficult, whereas by contrast employment figures for factory workers may be ascertained with
ease and definiteness. The estimates stated are from data submitted
by the Economics Branch, Wage and Hour Division, United States
Department of Labor. The figures concerning the number of establishments and of factory workers were derived from the Census of
Manufactures.

252

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

possible for the Administrator, without the prohibition,
to follow the statute's mandate (§ 8 (d)) to "carry into
effect" the recommendations of the committee as to 8,500
to 12,000 homeworkers, who generally are part-time pieceworkers.' He neither can do so as to factory workers, who
generally are full-time workers.
Hence, if the prohibition cannot be made, the floor for
the entire industry falls and the right of the homeworkers
and the employers to be free from the prohibition destroys
the right of the much larger number of factory workers to
receive the minimum wage. This is true not merely as a
matter of inference from evidence having only prospective and predictive value. It is proved conclusively by
the Administrator's experience in attempting by regulatory methods to secure compliance with the previously
1" According to the report of the Economics Branch, cf. note 13
supra, entitled The Current Status of Home Work in the Embroideries
Industry, October, 1942, one of the most important factors affecting
earnings of homeworkers is "the great multiplicity of designs and
styles." Variations are constant and short lived. Piece rates must be
determined and applied with every change. Few operations lend
themselves to standardization, especially for homework. In one instance, during a period of six months, a "lace-cutting firm received
work requiring the cutting of 300 different designs, each of which had
a different piece rate." The report further states: "Piece rates for
plant workers can readily be checked . . . The setting of piece rates
to yield the minimum wage for home workers is a much more complex
problem than for plant workers."
The Administrator's opinion states the most common practice in
setting piece rates for home operations is by the timing of a sample
worker in the factory and the evidence showed this worker may be a
very skilled and experienced one. Of the firms inspected by the Wage
and Hour Division June 1, 1939, to July 1, 1942, "a review of 211
showed that 80, or 37.9 percent, fixed piece rates for home workers
upon the basis of arbitrary estimates; 73, or 34.6 percent, based the
rates for home workers on time tests of plant sample workers; and only
40, or 19 percent, based the rates for home workers on time tests of
some of the home workers themselves." Cf. also note 16 infra.

GEMSCO, INC. v. WALLING.
244

253

Opinion of the Court.

prevailing 5 lower "committee" rate." His experience is
borne out by that of state and federal authorities prior to
the Fair Labor Standards Act." Attempts to maintain
15

Cf. note 6 supra.
note 9 supra. The Administrator's report stated: "The Eco-

16 Cf.

nomics Branch found that even during the boom period from January 27, 1941 to July 1942, 61.2 percent of the home workers in the
Industry as a whole were paid less than 371/2 cents an hour, in violation of the applicable minimum wage order. It was found that 52.6
percent of the home workers received less than 35 cents an hour;
nearly 30 percent less than 25 cents; and 17.4 percent less than 20
cents. Fifteen home workers, or 1.8 percent of the total number, were
paid as little as 10 cents an hour or less. The percentage receiving less
than 371/2 cents an hour was highest, 90.2 percent, in lace cutting and
lowest, 23.3 percent, in crochet beading. Miscellaneous embroidery
had 81.3 percent of the home workers receiving less than the wage
order minimum, passementerie, 74.1 percent, hand embroidery, 72.6
percent, and Schiffli and Swiss hand-machine embroidery, 31.1
percent."
Much other evidence, including testimony of individual homeworkers and of the Director of the Women's Division, New York Department of Labor, relating to inspections made in 1941 and 1942 involving 1,582 homeworkers, sustained the Administrator's statement, "The
evidence in the record, including the report of the Economics Branch,
which showed low subminimum earnings for the bulk of the homeworkers in this industry, was not seriously contested at the hearing,"
and his further conclusions that, in view of competitive relationships,
mere regulation of homework would not be adequate to secure effective
enforcement of the order and, likewise, that this could not be had by
applying the prohibition to only part of the industry.
17 He found specifically that the efforts of New York and New Jersey
in prohibiting distributors who operate no shops from distributing
homework and in restricting such contractors, though having a beneficial effect, had not "changed the economic structure of the Industry as presently carried on"; that hidden child labor is a widespread
characteristic of the system, discoverable only after extensive investigation presenting an almost insurmountable problem for enforcement
agencies, employers and homeworkers themselves; that violations of
record keeping regulations by employers and workers are consistent
and widespread; and that "in view of the competitive relationship

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

minimum wages by regulating homework have failed generally of their purpose. This failure, after fair trial, is
responsible for the Administrator's resort to prohibition
in the present order.
The case therefore comes down squarely to whether or
not minimum wages may be effectively prescribed and
required in this industry. If homework can be prohibited, this is possible. If it cannot, the floor provided
by the order cannot be maintained and, further, what
is more important, it inevitably follows that no floor,
whether of "statutory" or of "committee" wages, can be
maintained.18
between different types of embroidery, any regulatory, restrictive,
or prohibitory order affecting only certain operations would create
a. competitive disadvantage for the employers engaged in those
operations."

Noting that twelve states had legislated, before 1900, to regulate
tenement workshops, the Administrator found that "effective enforcement was impossible, however, and home work remained a serious problem." The subsequent period of legislation by a few states
"achieved little effective control prior to 1930." New state laws, enacted during the 1930's, providing for abolition of homework by administrative order, "became the only effective statutory approach
to a problem generally considered beyond regulation." Under the
National Industrial Recovery Administration, 118 of the 556 codes
included homework provisions; and 86 percent of the 118 prohibited
homework. Homework in consequence was greatly reduced, but its
volume turned sharply upward when the National Industrial Recovery Act was declared unconstitutional in Schechter Poultry Corp.
v. United States, 295 U. S. 495 (1935).
"8No reason is apparent which would make any factor in the homework situation effective to nullify the 40-cent rate that would not
apply also to the 37Y2-cent rate or any other minimum, however fixed,
except one placed so low that even homeworkers would seek other
kinds of employment or accept idleness in preference. The Administrator made no findings or conclusions concerning this self-evident
matter.

GEMSCO, INC. v. WALLING.
244

255

Opinion of the Court.

In this light petitioners' position is, in effect, that the
statute cannot be applied to this industry. Their argument is not put in these terms. It comes to that. So to
state it is to answer it. The industry is covered by the Act.
This is not disputed. The intent of Congress was to provide the authorized minimum wage for each employee so
covered. Neither is this questioned. Yet it is said in
substance that Congress at the same time intended to deprive the Administrator of the only means available to
make its mandate effective. The construction sought
would make the statute a dead letter for this industry.
The statute itself thus gives the answer. It does so in
two ways, by necessity to avoid self-nullification and by
its explicit terms. The necessity should be enough. But
the Act's terms reinforce the necessity's teaching. Section
8 (d) requires the Administrator to "carry into effect" the
committee's approved recommendations. Section 8 (f)
commands him to include in the order "such terms and
conditions" as he "finds necessary to carry out" its purposes. These duties are backed up by other provisions."
When command is so explicit and, moreover, is reinforced
by necessity in order to make it operative, nothing short
of express limitation or abuse of discretion in finding that
the necessity exists should undermine the action taken to
execute it. When neither such limitation nor such abuse
exists, but the necessity is conceded to be well founded in
fact, there would seem to be an end of the matter.
II
Petitioners' objections are not procedural. They have
not contended that the provision of the order forbidding
homework is a definition or classification of the industry
19

Cf. text at note 38ff infra.

256

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

or, either for that reason or any other, must be submitted
to the industry committee and made only upon its recommendation. Such a position would have nullified their
argument that the statute confers no authority in any
case to prohibit homework. The provision is neither a
definition nor a classification of an industry. It relates
merely to a mode or method of conducting the industry.
The statute provides that the committee shall recommend
minimum wage rates and reasonable classifications, and
that the Administrator, if he disapproves "such recommendations," shall refer them either to the committee or
to another committee. § 8 (a), (b), (c), (d). Nothing
in the Act requires the Administrator to take the committee's recommendation concerning the terms and conditions found necessary to make their recommendation and
the order based on it effective. He must find that the
terms and conditions he imposes are necessary for this
purpose. He did so in this case, after extended hearings,
upon ample evidence and upon findings of necessity not
questioned. To say that in such circumstances he can
adopt no term or condition which materially alters the industry is only to say Congress did not mean what it said
and that the industry cannot be made subject to the statute's regulation. It is also to ignore "the distinct separation of the functions to be performed by the committee
under § 8 (a), (b), (c), (d), from that to be performed by
the Administrator after submission of the committee's
report . . ." Opp Cotton Mills v. Administrator, 312
U. S. 126, 147.
Petitioners' arguments rest chiefly on their views of the
legislative history and the character of the prohibition.
The latter, they say, is not a "method of enforcement" but
is rather a form of "experimental social legislation" touching a matter not incidental to the order, but in the nature

GEMSCO, INC. v. WALLING.
244

257

Opinion of the Court.

of a wholly independent subject beyond the purview of the
statute and therefore of the Administrator's power.
This argument is closely interlaced with the contentions
drawn from the legislative history and the statute's enforcement provisions, presently to be noted. In so far as
it is independent of these, however, it rests on wholly untenable premises. One is that the prohibition is merely an
"enforcement" measure. It is rather primarily preventive
in character, intended to aid in making the order effective
and to eliminate the need for enforcement. But, in accordance with their "enforcement" conception, petitioners'
larger fallacy is that the Administrator can take no action
toward making his order effective which, if taken as a matter of independent legislation not expressly related to the
Fair Labor Standards Act's objects, would produce substantially the same social and economic effects, apart from
those objects. In this view the Administrator's power is
so restricted that he can do nothing if, in addition to making the rate effective and safeguarding it against circumvention, other social and economic consequences would
result.
The answer is obvious. Section 8 (f), in directing the
Administrator to include "such terms and conditions" as
he "finds necessary to carry out the purposes of such
orders," did not forbid him to take the only measures which
would be effective, merely because other consequences
necessarily would follow. The language neither states
expressly nor implies that he is to do only what will achieve
the stated ends and nothing more. The statute does not
direct the Administrator to make the rate effective by all
necessary means except those which may have other social
or economic consequences.
His power, it is true, is not one of social or economic
reform, except as that power relates to maintaining authorized minimum wages and the statutory hours of labor.

258

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

But the Administrator has not exercised his authority for
such an extraneous purpose. He expressly disclaimed any
such object.20 The entire record supports the disclaimer.
The whole bearing of the evidence and the findings was
toward the effects of homework upon the wage rate and
its maintenance, not upon other evils it may generate.
Petitioners' argument, not questioning the necessity for
the prohibition or the finding that it exists, would accomplish indirectly what direct challenge which they do not
attempt would achieve, if successful. Absent the necessity, the Administrator's power would not go to this
length. Present that necessity, to deny it, because other
effects necessarily but incidentally must follow his action,
would be to nullify both his power and the statute. Nothing in the statute, whether of letter or of substance,
warrafits such a limitation. What is "incidental," what
"independent" of stated statutory ends often presents a
difficult issue. But that is seldom if ever true when to
deny the authority or other feature questioned would
nullify the Act by reading out of its purview the only
means for making it effective. 1
Homework in this case is not an independent industry.
It is conducted largely by the same employers who maintain factory establishments or by "contractors" who are
20 His opinion expressly states: "This proceeding is not concerned
with the question whether home work is desirable or undesirable
from a social point of view or as a form of economic organization.
It is concerned solely with whether the home work system in the
Embroideries Industry furnishes a means of circumventing or evading a wage order putting into effect the minimum wage recommendation of Industry Committee No. 45 so that it is necessary to provide
in the wage order for its regulation, restriction or prohibition in order
to carry out the purposes of such order and to safeguard the minimum wage rate established therein."
21 Cf. Sunshine Anthracite Coal Co. v. Adkins, 310 U. S. 381, 392;
United States v. Powers, 307 U. S. 214, 217; Armstrong Paint &
Varnish Works v. Nu-Enamel Corp., 305 U. S. 315, 333; Bird v.
United States, 187 U. S. 118, 124.

GEMSCO, INC. v. WALLING.
244

Opinion of the Court.

in competition with such employers. Homeworkers are
an integral part of the single industry. Their labor competes with the labor of factory workers, within the same
establishment, between establishments, and between regions where the industry is concentrated. The effects of
their competition with factory workers are, as has been
shown, to destroy the latters' right as well as their own
to have, practically speaking, the benefit of the minimum
wage guaranteed by the Act. They represent the smaller
fraction of the industry, both in numbers and in working
time. Such are the uncontested findings of fact.'
When all of these facts are taken into account, the
case is clearly not an instance of effort to achieve ends
beyond or independent of the statutory objects. It rather
exhibits but an exercise of the necessary means to accomplish those objects. This is confirmed, further, by the
evidence and the findings which show that the prohibition will not eliminate the great majority of homeworkers
from the industry; but on the contrary will result only
in transfer of the scene of their work from the home to
the factory and will do this without undue hardship."
Cf. notes 12, 13 and text at notes 14 and 16 supra. Other relevant findings of the Administrator need not be quoted or noted
specifically, reference being made to his opinion for them.
23 The Administrator's opinion devotes some seventeen pages to
review of the evidence in this aspect of the case, including previous
experience with ability of both employers and homeworkers to adjust
to the prohibition. This experience related to the effects of prohibitions under various state laws and the National Industrial Recovery Act. With reference to the latter, of 75 firms investigated
by the Children's Bureau, Department of Labor, only one discontinued the line of goods on which homeworkers had been employed
and of 3,135 homework employees prior to the prohibition, 2,588 or
82 percent were employed in factories after the prohibition. Similar
results were shown in the experience with state laws in New Jersey,
New York and Rhode Island.
Petitioners presented contrary evidence, largely statements of individual homeworkers in embroidery that they could not or would
22

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

For the larger number of workers unable to make the
transfer, the exceptions allowed by the order will provide
an adequate mode for permitting continuance of work
at home.24
The argument from the legislative history undertakes,
in effect, to contradict the terms of § 8 (f) by negative
inferences drawn from inconclusive events occurring in
the course of consideration of the various and widely
differing bills which finally, by compromise and adjustment between the two Houses of Congress, emerged from
the conference as the Act. The plain words and meaning
of a statute cannot be overcome by a legislative history
which, through strained processes of deduction from events
of wholly ambiguous significance, may furnish dubious
bases for inference in every direction. This is such a
case.
Petitioners' most insistent emphasis is upon two things.
One is that the committee in charge of the original Senate
bill reported that it was limited to two objectives, the
establishment of minimum wages and maximum hours
and the prohibition of industrial child labor.' The other,
that at various stages of consideration the Senate bill contained, in the section (9 (6)) comparable to what is now
§ 8 (f), a parenthetical clause which expressly included
not make the transfer, for various reasons, if the prohibition were
adopted. The Administrator found some of this evidence unacceptable "as furnishing a sound basis for predicating their actual conduct
when faced with actual prohibition" and concluded that reasonable
adjustment could be made to the prohibition both by employees and
by the employers.
24 Cf. note 8 supra. Because "relatively few home workers will be
eligible to continue home work under this exception," the Administrator found that "no threat to the standards of the wage order"
would be presented by making it.
25 S. Rep. No. 884, 75th Cong., 1st Sess.; cf. 81 Cong. Rec. 7658,
7659.

GEMSCO, INC. v. WALLING.
244

261

Opinion of the Court.

homework among other specified practices the Administrator was authorized to restrict or prohibit,"8 and this
clause was omitted from the final conference draft.
The first objection merely repeats in another guise the
argument that homework is an independent subject matter
wholly without the statute's purview, but bolsters this
with the assumption that because oppressive child labor
was covered expressly, homework and all other factors
affecting maintenance of minimum wages were left en-

tirely untouched, if they produce other evils which independent legislation might reach, merely because they were

not also specifically mentioned. The assumption ignores
the fact that the child labor provisions are themselves

independent prohibitions, not limited to operation in situations where child labor has harmful effects on maintaining the minimum wage rate but working entirely inde28

The clause assumed various forms in the course of consideration

of the Senate bill. The section comparable to § 8 (f) was 9 (6).
The original parenthesis, apparently, was inserted in committee in
the form, "(including the restriction or prohibition of such acts or
practices)." S. Rep. No. 884, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., S. This was
amended on the floor, without debate or record vote, to read, "(including the restriction or prohibition of industrial home work or of
such other acts or practices)," thus introducing the first specific
reference to homework. 81 Cong. Rec. 7891. The bill passed the
Senate with the clause in this form. 81 Cong. Rec. 7957.
The House Committee on Labor approved and reported the Senate bill with this version of the parenthesis, which was retained
through many revisions of the bill after it was recommitted. Eventually the clause was expanded in the House Committee to read, "(including the restriction or prohibition of industrial home work or
such other acts or practices and such requirements as the keeping of
records, labeling, periodic reporting and posting of orders and schedules)." House Confidential Subcommittee Print "A" of February
18, 1938. The clause disappeared entirely from the House bill when,
shortly before passage, that body changed the entire scheme by substituting "statutory" for "committee" wages. Cf: H. Rep. No. 2182,
75th Cong., 3d Sess.; cf. also text infra at notes 32, 33.
637582 -46--21

262

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

pendently of such consequences. 27 Those provisions are
therefore not merely means of putting into effect and
maintaining the wages required by the Act, as is the Administrator's prohibition of homework. The former would
apply regardless of any effect upon the wage structure.
The latter can apply only when it is clear that such effects
require this in order to maintain and safeguard that
structure.
This difference is in fact the difference between end and
means, made such by the terms of the statute itself. Congress by stating expressly its primary ends does not deny
resort to the means necessary to achieve them. Mention
of child labor therefore gives no ground to infer, from
failure expressly to mention homework, that the latter
was not included within the general language which comprehends all necessary means to achieve the Act's primary
objects. Exactly the opposite conclusion must be drawn
on the record, in view of the Administrator's uncontested
findings concerning the effects of homework in producing
hidden child labor at substandard wages, thus circumventing the Act in two of its primary objects.28 These findings
therefore give added reason to sustain his conclusion that
homework was not put beyond his power to prescribe the
means necessary to achieve the purposes of the order and
of the Act.
Cf. § 12 and § 3 (1). The latter defines "oppressive child labor."
The former prohibits producers, manufacturers and dealers to "ship
or deliver for shipment in commerce any goods produced in an establishment situated in the United States in or about which within
thirty days prior to the removal of such goods therefrom any oppressive child labor has been employed . . ." See also note 17 supra.
2 The Administrator, referring to the .prohibition of § 12, cf. note
27 supra, noted that the employment of children in either factories or
homes, in the production of goods for commerce, must be hidden and
commented: "This in itself contributes to the deterioration of minimum wage standards."
27

GEMSCO, INC. v. WALLING.
244

263

Opinion of the Court.

The second objection fares no better. It is mere negative inference drawn from the bare fact that the illustrative parenthetical clause was omitted from the final
conference draft which became the Act. Nothing in the
committee or conference reports or in the debates indicates
a purpose to put homework, or the other practices. enumerated at one time or another within the parentheses, beyond the purview of the Act or of the Administrator's
power wherever these practices are shown to prevent
achievement of the statute's ends.
The answer to the argument microscopically made from
the long course of legislative events is obvious. From the
beginning the parenthetical clause was but illustrative of
the general authority conferred by the provision of which
it was a part.' It "grew up through step by step additions,
among which 'homework' was one," 144 F. 2d 624, until
the parenthetical illustrations threatened to swallow up
the general authority. If nothing more had occurred than
elimination of the illustrations from a bill otherwise accepted, the change well might be put down, as Judge Hand
suggests, 144 F. 2d 624, "to the belief that it was unwise
to specify so much, lest the specification be taken as
exhaustive."
However, as he points out, the course of events was
quite different, and even more conclusive against the petitioners' view. The section containing the parenthesis began, and continued, as a feature of the Senate bill. This
followed an entirely different plan from the one eventually
adopted, which was a compromise of Senate and House
proposals. The Senate bill placed administration of the
Act in the hands of a board, which was by order to fix all
minimum wages. In this form, including the parenthetical reference to homework,"° the Senate adopted the bill.
29

Cf. note 26 supra; Phelps Dodge Corp. v. Labor Board, 313 U. S.

177, 188ff, 211; Federal Land Bank v. Bismarck Co., 314 U. S. 95, 100.
30 Cf. note 26 supra.

264

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

The House Committee to which the measure was referred
likewise approved it. But the House itself declined to do
so. It adopted a different scheme, substituting statutory
wages for wages fixed by order as the Senate bill proposed." There was therefore no need for, and the House
bill did not contain, the parenthesis or the general provision of which it formed a part.
When the two bills came to conference, compromise
was worked out by writing around the conference table
the final measure combining features of both bills. 2 The
House provisions for an administrator and for statutory
wages were retained. But the latter were modified by
providing for "committee" wages, to be fixed by order of
the Administrator, by including the provisions of § 8,
including 8 (f), and also of § 6 (a) (3) and (4).
Section 8 (f), which originated in the Senate, thus
found its way back into the final form of the measure,
though without the parenthesis. The Conference report
(H. Rep. No. 2738, 75th Cong., 3d Sess.) contains no reference to the elision and none appears in the record of
the ensuing debate. 83 Cong. Rec. 9158, 9246. The history, accordingly, does not sustain the negative inference
petitioners would draw from the omission. The paren31 The House bill also substituted an administrator for the Senate's
board. Petitioners argue from the fact that substitution of "statutory" for "committee" wages was made because the House objected
to the discretionary powers given the board in the Senate bill, H. Rep.
No. 2182, 75th Cong., 3d Sess., and because it later rejected substitute bills patterned after the Senate measure, cf. 83 Cong. Rec.
7389, 7378, 7373, that Congress, in effect, rejected every feature of
the bills which the House refused to enact. The non sequitur is apparent. But it may be noted the contention ignores entirely the Senate's part in legislation, as well as the compromise effected in conference between the two bodies and the fact that this reintroduced some
of the discretionary features contained in the bills the House rejected.
82 Cf. 83 Cong. Rec. 9256; H. Rep. No. 2738, 75th Cong., 3d Sess.
(Conference Report).

GEMSCO, INC. v. WALLING.
244

Opinion of the Court.

thesis was inserted, in the Senate, without discussion or
controversy. It was likewise eliminated without discussion or controversy. So far as appears, it was never separately considered. Not the clause alone or particularly, but
the entire bill containing it was rejected by the House.
That rejection is no evidence that this single feature had
special significance. Rejection of an entire bill cannot
be taken to be a specific rejection of each and every feature, more especially of those later reintroduced in the
3
final draft."
The most tenable conclusion is drawn by
Judge Hand, that "the section, which had apparently died
with the Senate plan, was lifted out of that setting, and
was put into the compromise bill as it had stood originally." As he says, "It would be indeed a far cry to infer
from that that all the items which by accretion had made
their way into the parentheses were in this way excised
from the Administrator's powers. Indeed, if so-as he
argues-he could not even regulate labels . . ." 144 F.
2d at 624.
The amendment to § 6, relating to homework in Puerto
Rico and the Virgin Islands, adopted in 1940," and Congress' failure in 1939 and 1940 to adopt an amendment
proposed by the Administrator to authorize explicitly prohibition of homework " cannot operate retroactively, as is
urged, to give the statute enacted in 1938 a different meaning from what it then acquired. 6 And petitioners' conCf. note 31 supra.
6 (a) (5), 6 (c), 5 (e), added by Act of June 26, 1940,
54 Stat. 615, 616. Section 6 (a) (5) deals in detail with homeworkers
in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands.
35 Cf. H. R. 5435, 76th Cong., 1st Sess., § 4; H. Rep. No. 522, 76th
Cong., 1st Sess., 8; 84 Cong. Rec. 3498; 86 Cong. Rec. 5122.
36 It is not altogether clear, from the terms of the proposed amendment, cf. note 35 supra, whether its purpose and effect were to clarify
preexisting provisions or to extend the Administrator's authority.
The debate, 84 Cong. Rec. 6620-6622, indicates that opposition in the
House was due primarily to belief that the amendment, if adopted,
33

3Sections

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

tentions drawn from the Act's enforcement provisions
misconceive their effect.
The idea seems to be twofold, first, that the Administrator has no enforcement functions under this Act; or, in
any event, that the Act provides no means for enforcing
the "terms and conditions," including restriction or prohibition of homework, which he may include in his order.87
The Administrator's function under § 8 (f), though primarily preventive, obviously is related to enforcement.
And further, he is expressly granted powers bearing
directly to that end. Apart from his investigative authority under § 11, he has power also by express provision
of that section to bring suits under § 17 to restrain violations of wage orders. 8
We need not determine whether this includes authority
to sue independently to restrain violations of "terms and
conditions" properly included in such an order or to ask
for this relief as incidental to enjoining violations of the
rate specified. Cf. Hecht Co. v. Bowles, 321 U. S. 321,330;
Ethyl Gasoline Corp. v. United States, 309 U. S. 436, 461;
would "take away some of the exemptions that so-called farm people
enjoy under the Act."
37 It is said that § 8 (f) does not provide for a hearing with reference
to the "terms and conditions" of a wage order and the failure of the Act
to provide expressly for their enforcement, as it does for enforcement
of orders issued under §§ 11 (c), 12 and 14, indicates "the statute did
not include the prohibition of homework as a 'term and condition' of a
wage order." The argument, it may be noted, applies to all "terms
and conditions." In effect it urges that all are unenforceable; and
therefore none was intended.
may investi38 Section 11 (a) provides: "The Administrator...
gate . . . such facts, conditions, practices, or matters as he may deem
necessary or appropriate to determine whether any person has violated
any provision of this Act, or which may aid in the enforcement of the
provisions of this Act. . . . Except as provided in section 12, the Administrator shall bring all actions under section 17 to restrain violations of this Act." Cf., e. g., Walling v. Helmerich & Payne, 323 U. S.
37; Walling v. Belo Corp., 316 U. S. 624.

GEMSCO, INC. v. WALLING.
244

Opinion of the Court.

United States v. Morgan, 307 U. S. 183, 194; Warner &
Co. v. Lilly & Co., 265 U. S. 526, 532. But certainly the
absence of such authority cannot be assumed, closely related as it would be to enforcement of the order's primary
term. Congress did not include authority to prescribe
"terms and conditions" merely as a preachment. Cf. California Drive-In RestaurantAssn. v. Clark, 22 Cal. 2d 287,
140 P. 2d 657. We do not therefore consider further these
assumptions.
Finally, petitioners insist that power to prohibit homework could not have been intended because the authority
to prescribe "terms and conditions" applies only to "committee," not to "statutory" wages and will expire, by the
terms of § 8 (e), 9 on October 23, 1945, seven years from
the effective date of § 8. This argument involves a medley
of assumptions and conclusions, some contrary to the fact,
others of doubtful validity. Among them are the ideas:
(1) that the power to prescribe "terms and conditions"
applies only to "committee" wages; (2) that the power
to prescribe or maintain such wages expires altogether at
the end of the seven years; and (3), upon these hypotheses, that it would be "absurd to assume that Congress intended that the Administrator could make so disruptive
but temporary a regulation as the prohibition of homework would entail."
The last conclusion might be accepted, if its foundations
were solid. But they crumble. In the first place the
31"No order issued under this section with respect to any industry
prior to the expiration of seven years from the effective date of section
6 shall remain in effect after such expiration, and no order shall be
issued under this section with respect to any industry on or after such
expiration, unless the industry committee by a preponderance of the
evidence before it recommends, and the Administrator by a preponderance of the evidence adduced at the hearing finds, that the continued
effectiveness or the issuance of the order, as the case may be, is necessary in order to prevent substantial curtailment of employment in
the industry."

268

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

authority conferred by § 8 (f) is to be read, not as if it
were given as of the date of the order (August, 1943) or
the time when it may become effective, 0 but as of 1938,
when the section took effect. Accordingly, at the minimum, the authority given was to apply over a period of
seven years. And these were the most crucial, because
the initial, years in the statute's anticipated life. The
scope of the power was not cut down because the Administrator chose to try first the less effective, but similarly
conferred though less extensive power of regulation.
Beyond this, it is not true that the power either to prescribe "committee" wages or to include "terms and conditions" in the order expires altogether at the end of the
first seven years. Section 8 (e) expressly provides for
continuance or issuance of wage orders after that time,
whenever the industry committee recommends and the
Administrator finds "by a preponderance of the evidence
. . . that the continued effectiveness or the issuance of
the order, as the case may be, is necessary in order to prevent substantial curtailment of employment in the industry." And § 6 (a) (3), perhaps also 6 (a) (4), expressly
contemplates continuance of wage orders issued under § 8
after the initial seven years. The exact scope of these
provisions need not now be determined. It is enough, for
present purposes, that they leave some room, and it may
be considerable, for the issuance or continued effectiveness
of wage orders after October 23, 1945.
Finally, it is not necessary in this case to decide whether
the power to prescribe "terms and conditions" applies only
to "committee" wages and not to "statutory" wages.
Strong reasons have been suggested for believing it applies to both.4' But this case involves only "committee"
Cf. note 6 supra.
Cf. the opinion of L. Hand, C. J., 144 F. 2d 608, 623, and the
reservation in that of Frank, C. J., at 614, with the authorities he
cites in note 7.
40
41

GEMSCO, INC. v. WALLING.
244

FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

wages. The power to make them effective and to prevent
evasion would not be cut down, were it more clear than it:
is that there is no authority to prescribe "terms and conditions" for "statutory" wages or were it true that authority to require "committee" wages would expire altogether
with the initial seven-year period. The question whether
the authority to prescribe "terms and conditions" applies
to "statutory" wages may be left for decision when it
arises. Uncertain as the answer now is, it cannot give
solid ground for inference that the power to prohibit homework was not a necessary means of making effective the
minimum wage prescribed by the order.
Petitioners' arguments have been directed chiefly to
the power to prohibit. If valid, they would apply equally
to the authority to restrict or regulate. They would nullify the Administrator's power to establish or maintain
minimum wages in the embroideries industry. They can
have no such potency.
The judgments are
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, concurring.

The Fair Labor Standards Act gives the Administrator
charged with its enforcement power to fix wages so that
they attain a basic minimum rate. In view of the vast and
varied range of situations thus placed under his wagefixing authority, the Administrator naturally enough was
given by Congress the power to issue these wage orders
on "such terms and conditions as the Administrator finds
necessary to carry out the purposes of such orders, to pre-.
vent the circumvention or evasion thereof, and to safe-.
guard the minimum wage rates established therein." § 8
(f), 52 Stat. 1060, 1065, 29 U. S. C. § 208 (f). It would
disregard the authority thus given by Congress to deny
that the power to fix minimum wages carries with it
the subsidiary power to forbid and to prevent evasion of

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

wages so fixed. In the light of the showing made on this
record concerning the embroideries industry for which the
Administrator concededly fixed valid wage rates, the
measures that the Administrator took through provisions
dealing with homework in the embroideries industry were
relevant to, and in enforcement of, the subsidiary power
granted by Congress to prevent evasion of the rates fixed
for that industry.
And so I join in the Court's opinion.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS.

With deference I venture to think that the Court here
essays to read into the law what its words, fairly construed,
do not import. The Court arrives at that result by forming a judgment as to what Congress probably should have
said, and would have said, if it had considered the matter,
in order to make the statute what the Court deems a more
perfect instrument for attaining the general objective
which Congress sought to attain, and then makes the necessary additions to the language Congress has used. The
principal, if not the only argument I find in the opinion
for reading something into the statute, is that otherwise
it cannot be most effectively applied to certain industries
unless the industries themselves are made over.
Section 8 (f) provides that the Administrator's orders
issued under the section "shall define the industries . . .
It is not suggested that
to which they are to apply."
the order in question is of this description. That with
which the industry committee's investigation dealt was a
single industry in which two methods of work were pursued. Obviously it is not a definition of the industry to
exclude from it some of those who labor in it.
The section also provides that the Administrator's
orders "shall contain such terms and conditions as the
Administrator finds necessary to carry out the purposes of

GEMSCO, INC. v. WALLING.
244

ROBERTS,

271

J., dissenting.

such orders, to prevent the circumvention or evasion
thereof, and to safeguard the minimum wage rates established therein." The philosophy of the court's opinion can
be nothing less than that the Administrator may, if he finds
it necessary, rewrite the statute. Suppose he finds that,
in a given industry, it is, as he puts it, impossible to enforce the minimum wage provision. May he thereupon
issue an order prohibiting the further prosecution of that
industry and requiring all those who pursue it to follow
some other calling? It may be said that the supposition
is, on its face, ridiculous. But is it any more so than what
was here accomplished? Forty per cent of the workers in
an industry, under pain of otherwise losing their occupation, are compelled to give up what they have done time
out of mind, and if they desire to pursue their calling to do
so under completely changed economic conditions, not in
their homes but in factories which, if they are available at
all, may be remote from their homes.
The language of § 8 (f) has a reasonable and proper
office in the context of the Act. The provisions permitted
by that section to be inserted in an order are obviously
such as are incidental to administration, such as pertain
to keeping records or filing reports; not exorbitant or
excessive so as to amount to a regulation or suppression of
an existing and recognized industry.
In my view, one need not go outside the provisions of
the Act to be convinced that Congress never intended to
grant the Administrator the power he has assumed. If
it be thought, however, that the phraseology of § 8 (f) is
of doubtful import, the legislative history seems to me to
demonstrate that Congress purposely, and not by inadvertence, denied the asserted power to the Administrator.
The statute aimed at three things-the limitation of the
hours of work, the fixing of minimum compensation per
hour, and the prohibition of child labor, We may elim-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

inate from consideration the first and third of these objects, and the statutory provisions implementing them,
since we are concerned only with minimum wages. The
Act creates a Wage and Hour Division in the Department
of Labor and authorizes the appointment of an administrator to be in charge of it (§ 4). It requires the appointment of industry committees representing those engaged
in any industry (§ 5). It requires every employer to pay
every employe engaged in commerce, or in the production
of goods for commerce, at the rate of not less than twentyfive cents an hour for the first year, not less than thirty
cents an hour during the next six years, and not less than
forty cents an hour after the expiration of seven years.
The Administrator is given no authority to issue any orders
concerning these prescribed rates or their application in
industry, with the sole exception about to be mentioned.
Provision is made to raise wages above the prescribed
minima during the seven year period after the effective
date of the Act, without curtailing employment or disrupting the economy of an industry. Section 6 refers the
reader to § 8 creating machinery to accomplish this. The
latter section provides for the convening of industry committees to which the Administrator shall refer the question
what minimum wage rate shall be set for the industry.
The committee is to investigate conditions in the industry, hold hearings, and recommend the highest minimum
wage rates which it determines, having regard to economic and competitive conditions, will not substantially
curtail employment.
Upon receiving the committee's recommendation, the
Administrator, after an opportunity for hearing, may
approve or disapprove the committee's recommendation.
If he approves, he shall do so by an order the effect of
which is to put into force the recommended wage scale.
Such orders are not to continue in force after seven years
from the effective date of the statute unless the committee

GEMSCO, INC. v. WALLING.
244

ROBERTS,

273

J., dissenting.

and the Administrator conclude, and so declare, that it is
within the purposes of the Act that the wage fixed by the
order shall remain in effect after expiration of that period
notwithstanding the requirement of § 6 that all wages
shall reach the minimum of forty cents an hour at that
time.
Now it is only in enforcement of a committee's report
.that the Administrator has power to issue an order with
respect to wages, and it is in this context that § 8 (f) permits him to include in his order "such terms and conditions" as he "finds necessary to carry out the purposes" of
the order, to prevent circumvention or evasion, and to
safeguard the wage rates thereby established.
With respect to the minima fixed by § 6, which apply
universally (except where the special procedure authorized by § 8 is invoked), the Administrator has no authority to issue orders such as that issued in this case. He
cannot, because he finds it difficult to enforce the Act in an
industry, either remake or suppress the industry. The
result of the decision is that, in the exceptional case where
a special rate of wages is set in advance of the prescribed
rate, the Administrator may do what, in the generality
of cases, he may not do. This circumstance gave one of
the judges below so much trouble that he was willing to
hold, in the teeth of § 6, that the Administrator might
in all cases make such orders as that here in question.
Thus, instead of writing in additional provisions in § 8
(f), as does this court, he was prepared to write in a new
provision in § 6 to make the Act a complete and logical
statute.
We have, then, this situation: With respect to any industry which has not been taken out of the provisions of
§ 6 by an industry committee's report and an Administrator's order, the Administrator cannot forbid home
work. As respects an industry in which wages have been
fixed by a committee, the Administrator has these sweep-

274

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

ing and destructive powers. And this, in spite of the fact
that the committee is authorized and required to deal
with the wages of the industry as a whole, and did so deal
with them here. The committee never considered the
question of an appropriate wage for the industry, under
the conditions which would prevail, after the suppression of a substantial part of it by the Administrator's
order. The interpretation now sanctioned of the Administrator's statutory authority to make orders "to prevent
the circumvention or evasion" of the purposes of the Act,
as including the power to make over the industry to which
a wage order is to apply, thus defeats one of the most
fundamental purposes of the Act. By § 8 no wage order
is to be promulgated with respect to an industry unless
the question of the minimum wage for the industry has
been referred by the Administrator to the industry committee, and the conditions in the industry and the appropriate wage for it have been the subjects of investigation
and report by the committee. The committee is specifically enjoined to recommend to the Administrator "the
highest minimum wage rates for the industry which it
determines, having due regard to economic and competitive conditions, will not substantially curtail employment
in the industry." And by § 8 (d) the Administrator, before he promulgates a wage order, is required to find, after
"taking into consideration the same factors as are required
to be considered by the industry committee," that its
recommendations will carry out the purpose of § 8. These
requirements make it clear that the terms and conditions
which § 8 permit the Administrator to attach to his wage
orders do not include those which materially alter the conditions of the industry which must be considered and
reported upon by the committee. Such requirements are
futile if the Administrator, under guise of preventing
evasion of a minimum wage order, which the committee
has recommended, has power, on promulgating a wage

GEMSCO, INC. v. WALLING.
244

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

order, to change the industry into one which the committee has never investigated. The Administrator's
action is in effect a subversion of the committee's report,
whereas the Act contemplates a resubmission to the committee in such a case. Opp Cotton Mills v. Administrator,
312 U. S. 126, 146-149.
Surely, if any such sweeping construction is to be given
words having a narrower import, inquiry into the legislative history is of capital importance. That history, instead of being "wholly ambiguous" and furnishing a
"dubious basis" for conflicting inferences, seems to me to
be letter-clear.
The Presidential message urging enactment of this legislation states two objects: "To reduce the lag in the purchasing power of industrial workers" and to put an end to
"the existence of child labor." Both purposes were to be
accomplished "without creating economic dislocation." I
Pursuant to this recommendation, Senate Bill No. 2475
was introduced and a similar bill, H. R. 7200, was introduced in the House. Joint hearings were held by Senate
and House committees. Senate Bill No. 2475 was reported to the Senate. Those in charge of it on the floor
repeatedly stated that the purpose was to limit the bill
strictly to minimum wages, maximum hours, and child
labor. There is no question that many experts in the field
felt that the prohibition of home work was essential to
the accomplishment of the objective of the legislation. In
the joint hearings, the Secretary of Labor testified that
power should be given to the administrative authority to
"prohibit entirely the use of industrial home work." 2
In this connection the Secretary also advised that the
administrative powers to be granted should be carefully
defined by the Congress so that the Act would clearly state
'H. R. Report No. 1452, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 6-7.
Testimony at Joint Hearings, pp. 184, 190, 196, 197.

276

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

them. The question of home work was again broached
at the hearings at various points. Notwithstanding this,
the bill, as reported to the Senate, contained no provision
for the prohibition of home work. The measure was debated at length in that body. As it then stood, § 9 (6),
dealing with administrative orders, which became § 8 (f)
in the bill as enacted, provided that an order might contain terms and conditions the administrative authority
should find necessary to carry out the purposes of the
order to prevent circumvention or evasion, or to "safeguard the fair labor standards therein established." It
will be seen that this language is not materially different
in meaning from that finally embodied in § 8 (f). An
amendment was proposed from the floor to add the words
"including the restriction or prohibition of industrial home
work" and was agreed to.
In order to expedite the adoption of the legislation, the
House Committee limited its consideration to the bill
passed by the Senate and reported it favorably with
amendments. Without detailing the House proceedings,
it is enough to say that ultimately a bill was presented
largely embodying the provisions of Senate Bill No. 2475
but creating an administrator in lieu of a board. Section
9 (6), which related to wage orders, contained the same
provisions respecting prohibition of home work as the
Senate bill.'

The objections to the Senate bill in the House were
such that a new measure was reported establishing fixed
minimum wages and maximum hours and granting the
Secretary of Labor only the power to declare that a particular industry was "an industry affecting commerce"
and-so subject to the Act. It contained no provision for
administrative orders. During debate on this proposed
3

Ibid., p. 195.
"82 Cong. Rec. 1511-1516, 1572-1577, 1580, 1585.

GEMSCO, INC. v. WALLING.
244

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

bill a substitute was presented containing a section relating
to wage orders, with provisions respecting home work the
same as were contained in the Senate bill as passed and
in the substitute theretofore offered to the House. The
bill thus offered was rejected and the newly reported
House bill was passed. Conferees were appointed
amongst whom were the Senator who had first proposed
the amendment respecting orders prohibiting home work
and two of the Representatives who had presented bills
containing similar provisions. The Conference Committee deliberated for a matter of twelve days and evidently
gave the most meticulous care to each section of each of
the bills before it. It in effect rewrote the measure. The
Conference Report shows that the committee adopted
the theory of the House bill fixing definite minimum
standard wages to step up periodically in the future and
also, as respects industry committees and interim orders
based on industry committees' reports, adopted the more
flexible system embodied in the Senate bill.
It is clear that in redrafting § 8 (f), which was § 9 (6)
of the Senate bill, the conferees consciously and deliberately rejected the clause "including the restriction or prohibition of industrial home work or of such other acts or
practices." The Conference Report was accepted, the
bill passed both houses, and was signed by the President.
The Wage and Hour Division of the Department of
Labor recognized that it had no power to abolish home
work. In its First Annual Report, that Division stated
(p. 14) that it was treating home workers as employes and
not as independent contractors. In the same report (p.
31) the Division went into detail with respect to regulations for record keeping in respect of home work. At page
46, the Division said: "A difficult problem which has required the use of special inspectors and special techniques
is that of industrial homework. It has been necessary to
make elaborate and time-consuming investigations af the
637582 °---46-22

278

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

establishment of the employer and in the homes of the
workers." That Division cooperated in the drafting of a
bill (H. R. 5435)5 introduced by Representative Norton
of the Labor Committee, which provided, inter alia: "The
Administrator shall have power to make, issue, amend,
and rescind such regulations and orders as are necessary
or appropriate to carry out any of the provisions of this
Act. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing,
such regulations and orders may . . . make special provision with respect to, including the restriction of, home
work subject to this Act to the extent necessary to safeguard the minimum standards provided in this Act or
in any regulation or order issued pursuant thereto, . .."
The proposed amendment was debated at length and
was defeated. With respect to it Representative Norton
said: 6
"I am sure that business would be less jittery about
this law if the Administrator had the right to define the
application of the law. Without this amendment he may
not do so and some business has suffered as a result. I
believe that he further needs the power to define technical
and trade terms used in the act and the power to make
special provisions with respect to industrial home work
and make special provision for constant-wage plans consistent with section 7 relating to hours of work. Home
work has long been a blot on the economic picture of this
country, and I regret to say that in some cases employers
have resorted to this means of employment to escape the
provisions of this law."
Again she stated to the House:'
.. . we are proposing in section 4 of H. R. 5435 to authorize the Administrator to make rules and regulations
to carry out any of the provisions of the act. This section
5First Annual Report, 1939, p. 160.
S8*4 Cong. Ree. 3498.
7 86 Cong. Ree. 5122.

GEMSCO, INC. v. WALLING.
244

ROBERTS,

279

J., dissenting.

will also give him the right to define terms used in the act
and make special provisions with respect to industrial
home work.
"As the act is now written it is extremely doubtful
whether the wage and hour standards which it establishes
can be enforced as to industrial home workers. Under
present practice in industrial home work industries, the
Administrator is unable to secure proper records on wages
and hours of home workers. Business concerns relying on
home work for their labor do not ordinarily deal directly
with the home workers but turn over the goods or articles
on which the work is to be done to contractors who employ
the home workers. If time permitted, I could give you
concrete examples of cruelty in this field. Section 4 of
the amendments would give the Administrator the necessary authority to cope with this situation."
In the Annual Report of the Wage and Hour Division
for 1940 industrial home work was discussed at page 89
and statements made as to the requirements of record
keeping in respect of it.
After the Wage and Hour Act had become law it developed that if the prescribed minimum hourly wages
were enforced in Puerto Rico certain industries there,
which consisted almost entirely of home work, would be
destroyed. It was believed that the only relief which
would correct the situation would be to amend the statute to abrogate the fixed minima named in § 6 to provide for an industry committee to fix lower standard
wages for industries consisting largely of home workers
in the island. Such minima would be recommended by
an industry committee and implemented by orders of the
Administrator.' The amendment was adopted in 1940.
1 See Annual Report, Wage and Hour Division, 1940, p. 113;
Hearings Senate Committee on -Appropriations, Emergency Relief
Appropriation Act, 1941, p. 3; S. R. 1754, 76th Cong., 3d Sess.,
p. 5fF; H. R. No. 2186, 76th Cong., 3d Sess., p. 15.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

Far from indicating any thought on the part of Congress or
the Division that the Administrator was empowered to
ban home work, this legislation, taken in connection with
the defeat of H. R. 5435, indicates quite clearly that no
one concerned either in the passage or the administration
of the law had any notion that the Administrator was
authorized to deal with the economic problem involved
in home work.
A section of the Wage and Hour Division's Report for
1940 contained a discussion of enforcement of the Act
with respect to home work, without any suggestion that
the Administrator could deal with it by abolishing it.
(p. 89)
In the Report for 1941 the Division, for the first time,
suggested that the Administrator had been considering, in
connection with wage orders, the question: "Must homework be abolished as one of the terms and conditions of
a wage order in order to safeguard and effectuate enforcement of the order." (p. 64)
Thus it appears that the Administrator, having failed
to obtain explicit authority from Congress, began contemplating the effort to persuade the courts that he had
implied authority in the premises.
In the Report for 1942 (p. 19) all that appears is the
following:
"The problem of industrial homework has been one
of the most important administrative questions since the
inception of the Fair Labor Standards Act. For the guidance of the Administrator, the data were presented for the
jewelry and knitted outerwear industries, showing conditions of industrial homework, the average earnings of
homeworkers, the difficulties of enforcement of minimum
wage provisions for homeworkers, and the methods of
evasion of minimum wage regulations by workers and
employers."

GEMSCO, INC. v. WALLING.
244

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

Though there was no declaration of a purpose to enter
the sort of order now in question, it was, in fact, entered
August 21, 1943.
In the Report for 1943, for the first time, Congress was
apprised of action being taken (p. 19) thus:
"Enforcement measures established to protect the
standards of the Act for factory employees have not been
effective in controlling hours and wages of homeworkers.
This failure prompted regulation of industrial homework
under wage orders in industries in which homework is
prevalent. These regulations are designed to protect
factory employees against unfair wage competition.
"Industrial homework in these industries is restricted
to persons who are unable to adjust to factory work because of age or physical or mental disability or who are
home-bound because of an invalid in the home and who
have been engaged in the particular industry prior to a
specified date. This latter requirement may be waived
in unusual hardship cases. These restrictions were
adopted after searching examination of the subject which
included the opinions and convictions of representatives
of management and labor. A total-of 4,451 applications
for industrial homework certificates have been received
and 3,701 certificates have been granted."
But, by that time, this case had been taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals to test the validity of the order here
under review.
I would reverse the judgment.
The CHIEF JUSTICE joins in this opinion.

