806

PRECISION

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Syllabus.

324 U. S.

INSTRUMENT

MANUFACTURING

CO. ET AL. v. AUTOMOTIVE MAINTENANCE MA-

CHINERY CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 377. Argued January 31, February 1, 1945.-Decided April 23,
1945.
1. In this suit for infringement of patents and breach of contracts
related thereto, the District Court's findings of fact and conclusions of law sustained its judgment of dismissal on the ground of the
complainant's "unclean hands," and the Circuit Court of Appeals'
reversal of the judgment was erroneous. Pp. 807, 820.
2. The maxim "he who comes into equity must come with clean
hands" closes the doors of a court of equity to one tainted with
inequitableness or bad faith relative to the matter in which he seeks
relief, however improper may have been the behavior of the defendant. P. 814.
3. The clean-hands doctrine is rooted in the historical concept of a
court of equity as a vehicle for affirmatively enforcing the requirements of conscience and good faith. P. 814.
4. While equity does not require that its suitors shall have led blameless lives as to other matters, it does require that they shall have
acted without fraud or deceit as to the matter in issue. P. 814.
5. One's misconduct need not have been of such a nature as to be
punishable as a crime or as to justify legal proceedings, in order to
warrant invocation of the maxim. P. 815.
6. Where a suit in equity concerns the public interest as well as the
private interests of the litigants, the clean-hands doctrine assumes
greater significance; for if the equity court in such case properly
applies the maxim to withhold its assistance, it not only prevents
a wrongdoer from enjoying the fruits of his transgression but averts
an injury to the public. P. 815.
7. A suit to enforce patents and related contracts involves the public
interest as well as interests of the adverse parties. P. 815.
8. The far-reaching social and economic consequences of a patent
give the public a paramount interest in seeing that patent monopolies spring from backgrounds free from fraud or other inequitable
conduct and that such monopolies are kept within their legitimate
scope. P. 816.

PRECISION CO. v. AUTOMOTIVE CO.
806

807

Opinion of the Court.

9. Those who have applications pending in the Patent Office or who
are parties to Patent Office proceedings have an uncompromising
duty to report to it all facts concerning possible fraud or inequitableness underlying the applications in issue. Failure in this duty
is not excused by reasonable doubts as to the sufficiency of the
proof of the inequitable conduct nor by resort to independent legal
advice. P. 818.
10. A settlement of interference proceedings which is grounded upon
knowledge or reasonable belief of perjury, not revealed to the Patent Office or to any other public representative, lacks that equitable nature which entitles it to be enforced and protected in a
court of equity. P. 819.
143 F. 2d 332, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 323

U. S. 695, to review the reversal of a

judgment dismissing the complaints and counterclaims in
two suits for infringement of patents and breach of contracts.
Mr. Casper W. Ooms, with whom Mr. Will Freeman
was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Frank Parker Davis, with whom Mr. Albert J.
Smith was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JusncE MURPHY

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The respondent, Automotive Maintenance Machinery
Company, charged in two suits that the various petitioners
had infringed three patents owned by it relating to torque
wrenches.' It was further asserted that the allegedly infringing acts also breached several contracts related to
the patents. In defense, the petitioners claimed inter
alia that Automotive possessed such "unclean hands"
1 The three patents involved are No. 2,279,792, issued on April 14,
1942, to Kenneth R. Larson; No. 2,283,888, issued on May 19, 1942,
to H. W. Zimmerman; and reissue No. 22,219, issued on November

3, 1942, to H. W. Zimmerman, based on original No. 2,269,503.

808

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

as to foreclose its right to enforce the patents and the
contracts.
The District Court, at the close of a consolidated trial
on the sole issue of Automotive's alleged inequitable conduct, delivered an oral opinion holding that Automotive's
hands were soiled to such an extent that all relief which
it requested should be denied. This opinion was subsequently withdrawn at the request of one of the witnesses
and is not a part of the record. At the same time, however, the court entered written findings of fact and conclusions of law, forming the basis for a judgment dismissing the various complaints and counterclaims "for want
of equity." On appeal, the Circuit Court of Appeals reviewed the facts at length and concluded that the District
Court's findings of fact were not supported by substantial
evidence and that its conclusions of law were not supported
by its findings. 'The judgment was accordingly reversed.
143 F. 2d 332. We brought the case here because of the
public importance of the issues involved.
The. basic facts necessary to a determination of the
vital issues are clear and without material dispute. In
chronological order they may be summarized as follows:
In 1937 and prior thereto Automotive manufactured and
sold torque wrenches developed by one of its employees,
Herman W. Zimmerman. During this period Snap-On
Tools Corporation was one of its customers for these
wrenches. Automotive also had in its employ at this time
one George B. Thomasma, who worked with Zimmerman
and who was well acquainted with his ideas on torque
wrenches. In November, 1937, Thomasma secretly gave
information to an outsider, Kenneth R. Larson, concerning torque wrenches. Together they worked out plans
for a new wrench, although Thomasma claimed that it
was entirely his own idea.
* After unsuccessfully trying to interest other distributors, Larson made arrangements to supply Snap-On with

PRECISION CO. v. AUTOMOTIVE CO.
806

809

Opinion of the Court.

the new torque wrench. On October 1, 1938, Larson filed
an application for a patent on the newly-developed
wrench, which application had been assigned to Snap-On
several days prior thereto. Then in December, 1938,
Larson, Thomasma and one Walter A. Carlsen organized
the Precision Instrument Manufacturing Company to
make the wrenches to supply Snap-On's requirements.
All three received stock and were elected officers and
directors of the new company. Manufacture of the
wrenches began in January, 1939, and Precision succeeded
in taking away from Automotive all of Snap-On's business.
Thomasma continued to work for Automotive until the
latter discovered his connection with Precision and discharged him in June, 1939. Thomasma's connection with
Precision was also concealed from Snap-On during most
of this period.
Subsequently on October 11, 1939, the Patent Office
declared an interference between certain claims in Larson's pending patent application and those in one filed
by Zimmerman. Automotive was the owner of Zimmerman's application. Shortly after the interference was declared, R. E. Fidler, Automotive's attorney, wrote to the
president of the company that the "whole situation confronting your opponents in this interference is quite messy,
and I will be somewhat surprised if they fight the matter."
He further wrote that if there was a contest "they surely
will have a lot of explaining to do."
In August, 1940, Larson filed his preliminary statement
in the Patent Office proceedings. In it he gave false dates
as to the conception, disclosure, drawing, description and
reduction to practice of his claimed invention. These
dates were designed to antedate those in Zimmerman's
agreed to file the patent application for Larson, who was
without funds, and took an assignment of the Larson application as
security for performance of the agreement to supply wrenches.
2Snap-On

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

application by one to three years. Larson also claimed
that he was the sole inventor of his wrench. When Fidler
learned of this preliminary statement he immediately
suspected that "there must be something wrong with this
picture" and suggested to Automotive's president that
a "very careful and thorough investigation" be made
of the situation. The president agreed. Fidler then employed several investigators who made oral reports to
him from time to time. According to Fidler's memoranda of these reports, Fidler learned in great detail in
August and September, 1940, the part that Thomasma
played in the development of the Larson wrench and in
the organization of Precision. He discovered that Thomasma claimed to have invented the wrench and that Larson
"was now trying to freeze him out."
From October 24 to November 4, 1940, Larson and
eight witnesses testified in the interference proceedings
in support of his claims, corroborating his statements as
to dates despite cross-examination. The day before this
testimony ended Thomasma met with Fidler and Automotive's president and stated that he had developed Larson's wrench and that Larson's patent application was a
"frame-up." Fidler then procured from Thomasma an
eighty-three page statement concerning these matters,
which Thomasma swore to on November 15. As the District Court found, this statement or affidavit "related in
extensive detail the statements of Thomasma with respect
to Larson's early work and disclosed such intimate knowledge thereof as to leave little doubt of the author's knowledge
of the facts."
With
these facts before him, Fidler admitted
that he
"personally was inclined to take the position that I should
do something drastic" in the form of taking the matter up
with the Patent Office or the District Attorney. He resolved his problem, however, by submitting it to an out-

PRECISION CO. v. AUTOMOTIVE CO.
806

813

Opinion of the Court.

For a time, negotiations were broken off and resumption
of the interference proceedings seemed imminent. One
of the other attorneys for Automotive wrote a letter on
December 19 to Alberts, who was still acting as attorney
for Snap-On, stating that "you must recognize that a large
part of the testimony taken on behalf of Snap-On and
Larson is, to put it mildly, not the whole truth" and that
"you are holding up the issuance of the Zimmerman patent
without the slightest justification." Fidler, who had approved this letter, justified these remarks on the ground
that "they had told us Zimmerman was the prior inventor
and we hadn't yet received a concession of priority." In
reply to this letter, Alberts charged that Automotive's attorneys were using "threatening accusations" and "duress"
and that they were threatening to "unloose the dogs"
unless they got everything they requested in the settlement.
Suddenly on the next day, December 20, negotiations
were resumed and the parties quickly entered into three
contracts, the first two of which are involved in this suit.
These contracts, in their relevant parts, provided as follows:
(1) Under the Automotive and Precision-Larson
agreement, Larson conceded priority in Zimmerman and
Larson's application was to be assigned to Automotive.
Automotive agreed to license Larson and Precision to complete their unfilled orders from Snap-On to the extent of
about 6,000 wrenches, with a royalty to be paid on the excess. Automotive released Precision, Larson and their
customers from liability for any past infringement and
gave Precision and Larson a general release as to all civil
damages. Finally, Precision and Larson acknowledged
the validity of the claims of the patents to issue on the
Larson and Zimmerman applications.
(2) Under the Automotive and Snap-On agreement,
Snap-On agreed to reassign the Larson application to Pre-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

cision and acknowledged the validity of the claims of the
patents to issue on the Larson and Zimmerman applications. Automotive also gave Snap-On the right to sell
the 6,000 wrenches then on order from Precision and released Snap-On from any past liability or damages.
(3) Under the Snap-On and Precision-Larson agreement, Snap-On reassigned to Larson and Precision whatever title Snap-On had to the Larson application. Precision agreed to manufacture and deliver to Snap-On the
6,000 wrenches then on order. Snap-On also assented to
the Automotive and Precision-Larson agreement.
The Larson application was accordingly assigned to
Automotive on December 20, 1940. Automotive subsequently received patents on both the Larson and Zimmerman applications after making certain changes. Then
Precision began to manufacture and Snap-On began to
sell a new wrench. Automotive claimed that this was an
infringement of its patents and a breach of the contracts
of December 20, 1940. Thus the suit arose which is now
before us.
The guiding doctrine in this case is the equitable maxim
that "he who comes into equity must come with clean
hands." This maxim is far more than a mere banality.
It is a self-imposed ordinance that closes the doors of a
court of equity to one tainted with inequitableness or bad
faith relative to the matter in which he seeks relief, however improper may have been the behavior of the defendant. That doctrine is rooted in the historical concept of
court of equity as a vehicle for affirmatively enforcing the
requirements of conscience and good faith. This presupposes a refusal on its part to be "the abettor of iniquity."
Bein v. Heath, 6 How. 228, 247. Thus while "equity does
not demand that its suitors shall have led blameless lives,"
Loughran v. Loughran,292 U. S. 216, 229, as to other matters, it does require that they shall have acted fairly and

PRECISION CO. v. AUTOMOTIVE CO.
806

811

Opinion of the Court.

side attorney. The latter advised him that his evidence
was insufficient to establish Larson's perjury, that the
Patent Office would not consider the matter until all proofs
in the interference proceedings were in and that the District Attorney probably would not touch the situation
while the interference proceedings were pending. Fidler
followed his advice.
A few days later Fidler informed Larson's patent attorney, Harry C. Alberts, of the information disclosed in the
Thomasma affidavit. Alberts admitted that "it looked
very much like Larson had given false testimony" and
asked that further examination of Thomasma be made in
his presence. Accordingly, on November 28, Thomasma
was examined orally before Alberts, Fidler and officials of
Automotive and Snap-On. Thomasma repeated substantially the same story as in his affidavit. Snap-On's president said that if the story were true "the whole thing
smells to the high heavens." And Alberts remarked that
under the circumstances he felt he would have to withdraw as Larson's attorney.
On the same day, Alberts and Snap-On's president confronted Larson and Carlsen with the Thomasma story and
demanded an explanation. Larson refused to commit himself on the truth of Thomasma's account but finally admitted that "my testimony is false and the whole case is
false." Alberts then withdrew as their attorney,8 giving
them the names of three other lawyers, including M. K.
Hobbs. The fact that Alberts withdrew was communicated by him to Fidler.
Larson and Carlsen called on Hobbs the next day, November 29. They told him they were willing to concede
8Alberts apparently never withdrew formally as Larson's attorney
in the interference proceedings by filing a document to that effect in
the Patent Office.

812

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

priority in Zimmerman and wanted Hobbs to settle the
interference proceedings.' Hobbs took the case on that
basis, making no effort to inquire into the reasons for the
concession since he considered that matter immaterial.
Even when Fidler tried to tell him later about the perjury,
Hobbs stopped him for he "didn't want to hear the conflict
in testimony."
Hobbs immediately undertook to settle the interference
proceedings. On December 2 he proposed a settlement
which included a concession of priority by Larson, but
this proposal was apparently not satisfactory to all those
concerned. Meanwhile Fidler presented the facts to another disinterested lawyer and asked him whether he
thought there was enough evidence to bring a conspiracy
suit for damages or a criminal action. The lawyer, after
admitting that he did not have the slightest doubt but that
Thomasma was telling the truth, replied in the negative.
On December 13, Fidler submitted a draft agreement
that he had prepared. This draft contained a recital that
"it has been determined by the parties hereto and their
respective counsel that the party Zimmerman is the prior
inventor of the subject matter involved in said Interference No. 77,565, as well as all other subject matter
commonly disclosed in said Zimmerman and Larson applications." But this draft was likewise unacceptable.
4 Both Larson and Carlsen testified that they told Hobbs of the
perjury and of the predicament they were in, stating to him that
they did not want to be turned over to the District Attorney.
Hobbs, however, denied that they informed him of these matters. It
was at the request of Hobbs that the District Court's oral opinion was
withdrawn in order that, in the words of the District Court, it would
not be "construed as implying that Mr. Hobbs had willfully given false
testimony or had been guilty of professional misconduct." The court
further said that the record demonstrated "that the witness Hobbs
did not testify falsely." Assuming that Hobbs gave no false testimony, however, we do not consider that fact to be of controlling
significance in this case.

PRECISION CO. v. AUTOMOTIVE CO.
806

815

Opinion of the Court.

without fraud or deceit as to the controversy in issue.
Keystone Driller Co. v. General Excavator Co., 290 U. S.
240, 245; Johnson v. Yellow Cab Co., 321 U. S. 383, 387; 2
Pomeroy, Equity Jurisprudence (5th Ed.) §§ 379-399.
This maxim necessarily gives wide range to the equity
court's use of discretion in refusing to aid the unclean
litigant. It is "not bound by formula or restrained by any
limitation that tends to trammel the free and just exercise
of discretion." Keystone DrillerCo. v. GeneralExcavator
Co., supra, 245, 246. Accordingly one's misconduct need
not necessarily have been of such a nature as to be punishable as a crime or as to justify legal proceedings of any
character. Any willful act concerning the cause of action
which rightfully can be said to transgress equitable standards of conduct is sufficient cause for the invocation of the
maxim by the chancellor.
Moreover, where a suit in equity concerns the public interest as well as the private interests of the litigants this
doctrine assumes even wider and more significant proportions. For if an equity court properly uses the maxim to
withhold its assistance in such a case it not only prevents
a wrongdoer from enjoying the fruits of his transgression
but averts an injury to the public. The determination of
when the maxim should be applied to bar this type of suit
thus becomes of vital significance. See Morton Salt Co.
v. Suppiger Co., 314 U. S. 488,492-494.
In the instant case Automotive has sought to enforce
several patents and related contracts. Clearly these are
matters concerning far more than the interests of the adverse parties. The possession and assertion of patent
rights are "issues of great moment to the public." HazelAtlas Glass Co. v. Hartford-Empire Co., 322 U. S. 238,
246. See also Mercoid Corp. v. Mid-Continent Investment Co., 320 U. S. 661, 665; Morton Salt Co. v. Suppiger
Co., supra; United States v. Masonite Corp., 316 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

265, 278. A patent by its very nature is affected with a
public interest. As recognized by the Constitution, it is a
special privilege designed to serve the public purpose of
promoting the "Progress of Science and useful Arts." At
the same time, a patent is an exception to the general rule
against monopolies and to the right to access to a free and
open market. The far-reaching social and economic consequences of a patent, therefore, give the public a paramount interest in seeing that patent monopolies spring
from backgrounds free from fraud or other inequitable
conduct and that such monopolies are kept within their
legitimate scope. The facts of this case must accordingly
be measured by both public and private standards of
equity. And when such measurements are made, it becomes clear that the District Court's action in dismissing
the complaints and counterclaims "for want of equity"
was more than justified.
The history of the patents and contracts in issue is
steeped in perjury and undisclosed knowledge of perjury.
Larson's application was admittedly based upon false data
which destroyed whatever just claim it might otherwise
have had to the status of a patent. Yet Automotive, with
at least moral and actual certainty if not absolute proof
of the facts concerning the perjury, chose to act in disregard of the public interest. Instead of doing all within
its power to reveal and expose the fraud, it procured an
outside settlement of the interference proceedings, acquired the Larson application itself, turned it into a patent
and barred the other parties from ever questioning its
validity. Such conduct does not conform to minimum
ethical standards and does not justify Automotive's present attempt to assert and enforce these perjury-tainted
patents and contracts.
Automotive contends that it did not have positive and
conclusive knowledge of the perjury until the pleadings

PRECISION CO. v. AUTOMOTIVE CO.
806

817

Opinion of the Court.

in the instant proceedings were filed and until Larson admitted his perjury on pre-trial examination. It claims
that prior thereto it only had Thomasma's affidavit and
statements, which were uncorroborated and likely to carry
little weight as against Larson and his eight witnesses.
It is further pointed out that Fidler submitted what he
knew of the facts to at least two independent attorneys,
both of whom advised him that the evidence of perjury
that he possessed was insufficient. From this it is argued,
as the Circuit Court of Appeals held, that while Automotive was "morally certain that Thomasma's story was
true" there was no duty to report this uncorroborated information to either the District Attorney or the Patent
Office.
But Automotive's hands are not automatically cleansed
by its alleged failure to possess sufficiently trustworthy
evidence of perjury to warrant submission of the case to
the District Attorney or to the Patent Office during the
pendency of the interference proceedings. The important
fact is that Automotive had every reason to believe and
did believe that Larson's application was fraudulent and
his statements perjured. Yet it acted in complete disregard of that belief. Never for a moment did Automotive
or its representatives doubt the existence of this fraud.
Fidler suspected it soon after he knew of Larson's claims.
His suspicions were confirmed by his hired investigators.
Then Thomasma revealed such intimate and detailed facts
concerning the perjury as to convince all who heard him,
despite certain reservations entertained by some persons
concerning his trustworthiness. Moreover, Fidler was well
aware that Alberts threatened to withdraw as Larson's
counsel if he discovered from Larson that Thomasma's
story was true and that Alberts in fact did so withdraw.
The suspected perjury was further confirmed by Larson's
sudden willingness to concede priority after he learned of

818

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

Thomasma's story, and by the admissions by Alberts and
Snap-On that Zimmerman "was the prior inventor." And
the very fact that Fidler saw fit to submit his proof to
outside attorneys for advice is an indication of the substantiality of his belief as to Larson's perjury. With all
this evidence before it, however, Automotive pursued the
following course of action:
1. It chose to keep secret its belief and allegedly unsubstantial proof of the facts concerning Larson's perjury.
We need not speculate as to whether there was sufficient
proof to present the matter to the District Attorney. But
it is clear that Automotive knew and suppressed facts that,
at the very least, should have been brought in some way
to the attention of the Patent Office, especially when it
became evident that the interference proceedings would
continue no longer. Those who have applications pending
with the Patent Office or who are parties to Patent Office
proceedings have an uncompromising duty to report to it
all facts concerning possible fraud or inequitableness underlying the applications in issue. Cf. Crites,Inc. v. Prudential Co., 322 U. S. 408, 415. This duty is not excused
by reasonable doubts as to the sufficiency of the proof
of the inequitable conduct nor by resort to independent
legal advice. Public interest demands that all facts relevant to such matters be submitted formally or informally
to the Patent Office, which can then pass upon the sufficiency of the evidence. Only in this way can that agency
act to safeguard the public in the first instance against
fraudulent patent monopolies. Only in that way can the
Patent Office and the public escape from being classed
among the "mute and helpless victims of deception and
fraud." Hazel-Atlas Glass Co. v. Hartford-Empire Co.,
supra, 246.
2. Instead of pursuing the interference proceedings and
proving the fact that Zimmerman's claims had priority

PRECISION CO. v. AUTOMOTIVE CO.
806

819

Opinion of the Court.

over those asserted by Larson, Automotive chose to enter
into an outside settlement with Larson, Precision and
Snap-On, whereby Larson conceded priority. Outside
settlements of interference proceedings are not ordinarily
illegal. But where, as here, the settlement is grounded
upon knowledge or reasonable belief of perjury which is
not revealed to the Patent Office or to any other public
representative, the settlement lacks that equitable nature
which entitles it to be enforced and protected in a court
of equity.
3. By the terms of the settlement, Automotive secured
the perjured Larson application and exacted promises
from the other parties never to question the validity of
any patent that might be issued on that application.
Automotive then made numerous changes and expansions
as to the claims in the application and eventually secured
a patent on it without ever attempting to reveal to the
Patent Office or to anyone else the facts it possessed concerning the application's fraudulent ancestry. Automotive thus acted to compound and accentuate the effects
of Larson's perjury.
These facts all add up to the inescapable conclusion that
Automotive has not displayed that standard of conduct
requisite to the maintenance of this suit in equity. That
the actions of Larson and Precision may have been more
reprehensible is immaterial. The public policy against
the assertion and enforcement of patent claims infected
with fraud and perjury is too great to be overridden by
such a consideration. Automotive knew of and suspected the perjury and failed to act so as to uproot it and
destroy its effects. Instead, Automotive acted affirmatively to magnify and increase those effects. Such inequitable conduct impregnated Automotive's entire cause of
action and justified dismissal by resort to the unclean
hands doctrine. Keystone DrillerCo. v. General Excavator Co., supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

We conclude, therefore, that the evidence clearly supported the District Court's findings of fact and that these
findings justified its conclusions of law. The court below
erred in reversing its judgment.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS.

I think the writ should be dismissed or the judgment
of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed. The case ought
not to have been taken by this Court. It involves merely
the application of acknowledged principles of law to the
facts disclosed by the record. Decision here settles nothing
save the merits or demerits of the conduct of the respective
parties. In my view it is not the function of this Court
to weigh the facts for the third time in order to choose between litigants, where appraisal of the conduct of each
must affect the result.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON is of the opinion that the judgment should be affirmed, as he takes the view of the facts
set forth in the opinion of the court below. 143 F. 2d
332.

