316

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

DRUMMOND v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 520.

Argued February 7, 8, 1945.-Decided March 5, 1945.

1. A suit by the United States to enforce restrictions on Indian lands
is not barred by a prior judgment in proceedings in which the United
States was not formally a party, but in which the Secretary of the
Interior had authorized employment and approved the fees of
counsel for the Indian. P. 317.
2. A mortgage of lands inherited from an Osage allottee, given by
the heir prior to the state court decree adjudging heirship, was invalid under § 7 of the Act of April 18, 1912, even though the heir
had a certificate of competency at the time of the execution of the
mortgage. P. 318.
3. Within the meaning of § 7 of the Act of April 18, 1912, lands inherited from an Osage allottee, though an incompetent, are "turned
over" to the heir when the probate court decrees heirship. P. 319.
144 F. 2d 375, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 323 U. S. 699, to review the reversal of a
judgment against the United States in a suit brought by

it to cancel a mortgage and to quiet title to lands.

Messrs. Roy St. Lewis and Chas. R. Gray for petitioner.
Mr. Roger P. Marquis, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Messrs. J. Edward Williams and Norman MacDonald were on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Mamie Fletcher Pitts, a full-blood Osage Indian, died
on May 24, 1937, leaving land allotted to her as a member of her tribe. Her husband, George Pitts, also a fullblood Osage, was appointed administrator of her estate in
appropriate proceedings in an Oklahoma court. His certificate of competency which had been granted him in

DRUMMOND v. UNITED STATES.
316

Opinion of the Court.

1910, § 2, Seventh, Act of June 28, 1906, 34 Stat. 539, 542,
was revoked by the Secretary of the Interior on June 24,
1938. On September 9, 1938, he was adjudged to be the
sole heir by the Oklahoma court, which entered an order
directing distribution of Mamie's estate to him. Prior to
that order, however, on July 12, 1937, Pitts had executed
a mortgage of his wife's land to Drummond, the petitioner,
to secure a contemporaneous promissory note. It is the
validity of this mortgage, under the relevant Indian
legislation, which is in controversy.
Petitioner in 1939 instituted a suit against Pitts in the
state court to recover judgment on the note and to foreclose the mortgage. In that litigation Pitts, asserting the
invalidity of the mortgage, was represented by a private
attorney. Foreclosure was decreed, and this was upheld
in the Supreme Court of Oklahoma. Pitts v. Drummond,
189 Okla. 574, 118 P. 2d 244.' Thereafter, the United
States brought the present action in its own right and on
behalf of Pitts to cancel the mortgage and to quiet title.
The petitioner succeeded in the District Court, but the
judgment was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Tenth Circuit. 144 F. 2d 375. The conflict in result between the decision below and the earlier decision of
the Oklahoma Supreme Court led us to grant certiorari,
323 U. S. 699.
A claim of res judicata meets us at the outset. Petitioner contends that the adjudication in Pitts v. Drummond, supra,binds the United States. To escape from the
rule that the United States is not precluded from enforcing restrictions on Indian lands by any prior judgment in
proceedings to which it was a stranger, Bowling v. United
States, 233 U. S. 528, 534-535; United States v. Hellard,
322 U. S. 363, 366; and see Cohen, Handbook of Federal
1 To complete the history of this litigation we note that certiorari
was denied, 315 U. S. 814.

318

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

Indian Law (1941) 369, petitioner relies on the authorization by the Secretary of the Interior of the employment
of Pitts' attorney and the approval of the latter's fee. If
the United States in fact employs counsel to represent its
interest in a litigation or otherwise actively aids in its conduct, it is properly enough deemed to be a party and not
a stranger to the litigation and bound by its results. Compare United States v. Candelaria,271 U. S. 432; 16 F. 2d
559, with Logan v. United States, 58 F. 2d 697. But to
bind the United States when it is not formally a party,
it must have a laboring oar in a controversy. This is
not to be inferred merely because the Secretary of the
Interior enables an incompetent Indian to protect his
interests.
This brings us to the merits of the controversy-the validity of the mortgage given by Pitts as security for a loan
before the Oklahoma court adjudged him to be his wife's
heir. The decision turns on the construction of the Act
of April 18, 1912, and more particularly on §§ 6 and 7, 37
Stat. 86. Section 6, so far as here relevant, removes restrictions on alienation of land inherited by heirs who
have certificates of competency or who are not tribal
members. After providing that allotment lands or funds
shall not be liable or subjected to any claim arising prior
to the granting of a certificate of competency, § 7 continues: "That no lands or moneys inherited from Osage
allottees shall be subject to or be taken or sold to secure
the payment of any indebtedness incurred by such heir
prior to the time such lands and moneys are turned over
to such heirs." These provisions have the characteristic
infelicity of draftsmanship in Indian legislation which
is such a fertile breeder of wasteful litigation. But the
language, together with the light shed by the relevant
Senate Report, makes the meaning clear enough.

DRUMMOND v. UNITED STATES.
316

319

Opinion of the Court.

Since Pitts incurred the debt to petitioner before the
probate court adjudged him to be the heir, the transaction
comes clearly within the invalidation of § 7. Petitioner
contends that even though Pitts incurred the debt to him
before the probate court decreed heirship, power to mortgage the land is authorized by § 6 which removed restrictions on land inherited by an heir having a certificate
of competency which Pitts did have at the time of the
mortgage transaction. But this result would render
meaningless the sentence we have quoted from § 7 and disregard the purpose of § 7 as authoritatively stated in the
Senate Report proposing the legislation. The object of
§ 7, according to the Senate Committee, was that "no
land or money inherited shall be subject to any prior indebtedness." S. Rep. No. 127, 62d Cong., 1st Sess., p. 2.
Since the sentence dealing with the invalidation is preceded by one which gives full protection against debts incurred prior to the issuance of a certificate of competency,
the second sentence would have no function whatever unless it be construed to render unenforceable any claims
against inherited property arising at any time before it
was "turned over" to an heir. And this brings us to the
final argument.
It is urged that § 7 is inapplicable because Mamie's land
was never "turned over" to Pitts but came to him automatically on the death of his wife. The basis of this argument is that, inasmuch as Mamie was an incompetent, her
estate was not subject to any claims against her and therefore necessarily would come to her heir unburdened. But
§ 7, in speaking of turning over lands to an heir, was
surely not concerned with the mysteries of seisin. It dealt
with the practicalities of ascertaining ownership through
inheritance by appropriate proceedings. To that end
§ 3 of the Act of 1912 conferred probate jurisdiction upon

320

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
324 U. S.

Syllabus.

the state courts. In re Thompson's Estate, 179 Okla. 240,
65 P. 2d 442. The statute, that is, had in mind the judicial
process of ascertaining the heir and the completion of that
process by court action whereby the land was "turned
over" to the ascertained heir. And so here, when the
Oklahoma court decreed that Pitts was Mamie's heir, the
land in the sensible use of the phrase "turned over" was
turned over to Pitts.
Other arguments have not been overlooked but they
need not be separately considered.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON dissents.

DOW CHEMICAL CO. v. HALLIBURTON OIL WELL
CEMENTING CO.
NO. 50.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.*
Argued February 6, 1945.-Decided March 5, 1945.

1. To resolve a conflict between Circuit Courts of Appeals as to the
validity of a patent, this Court will determine independently the
factual issue of validity. P. 322.
2. Grebe and Sanford Patent No. 1,877,504, Claims 1, 5, 7, 8 and 9,
for a method of treating deep wells to increase production, held
invalid for want of invention. Pp. 324, 331.
In the described process there was no patentable invention in
any of the following claims or any combination thereof: (1) addition
of an inhibiting agent to the hydrochloric acid solution to prevent
corrosion; (2) use of a dilute rather than a concentrated hydrochloric acid solution; (3) use of the ordinary pump tube instead of
a specially protected supply pipe to introduce the acid into the well.
3. The application of an old process to a new and analogous use lacks
the very essence of an invention. P. 327.
*Together with No. 61, HalliburtonOil Well Cementing Co. v. Dow
Chemical Co., also on certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Sixth Circuit.

