108

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Counsel for Parties.

324 U. S.

FIDELITY-PHILADELPHIA TRUST CO. ET AL.,
EXECUTORS, v. ROTHENSIES, COLLECTOR OF
INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 263.

Argued January 4, 5, 1945.-Decided February 5, 1945.

Decedent made a transfer of property in trust to pay the income
to herself for life, thence to her two daughters, with remainders
to the daughters' surviving descendants; but if both daughters
should die without descendants surviving, the corpus was to go to
such persons as the decedent should appoint by will. Decedent
exercised the power of appointment by will and predeceased the
daughters. Held:
1. The transfer was "intended to take effect in possession or enjoyment at or after (decedent's) death," within the meaning of
§ 302 (c) of the Revenue Act of 1926. P. 110.
2. The value at the date of the death of the decedent of the entire corpus of the trust was includible in the gross estate of the
decedent for the purpose of the estate tax under the 1926 Act.
P. 111.
Under § 302 (c) the taxable gross estate must include those
property interests the ultimate possession and enjoyment of which
is held in suspense until the moment of the grantor's death or
thereafter.
3. There was no basis for deduction from the decedent's gross
estate of the values of the estates of the daughters or their descendants. P. 112.
142 F. 2d 838, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 323 U. S. 693, to review the affirmance of
a judgment denying recovery in a suit for refund of federal
estate taxes.
Mr. C. Russell Phillipsfor petitioners.
Mr. L. W. Post, with whom Solicitor GeneralFahy, Assistant Attorney General Samuel 0. Clark, Jr., Messrs.
Sewall Key and J. Louis Monarch were on the brief, for
respondent.

FIDELITY CO. v. ROTHENSIES.
108

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTIcE MURPHY

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Our attention here is directed toward the proper valuation for federal estate tax purposes of the corpus of an
inter vivos trust where the transfer was intended to take
effect in possession or enjoyment at or after death and
where the settlor retained a life estate in the trust income
and a reversionary interest in the corpus.
On March 26, 1928, the decedent, Anna C. Stinson of
Bryn Mawr, Pa., transferred certain property in trust, the
value of which at the time of her death was $84,443.49.
The income of the trust was to be paid to the settlor during
her life and at her death to her daughters (aged 12 and
10 at the time of the creation of the trust) during their
respective lives. At the death of each daughter, the
corpus supporting her share of the income was to be paid
to her descendants. If either daughter died without leaving surviving descendants, the corpus of her share was to
be added to the share of the other daughter or of the
surviving descendants of the other daughter. But if both
daughters died without leaving surviving descendants, the
corpus was to be paid to such persons as the settlor might
appoint by will. In default of such appointment, the
corpus was to go to certain named charities.
The decedent exercised the power of appointment in a
will made in 1930. She died in 1934 at the age of 51,
leaving two unmarried daughters. The latter have subsequently married and both have children.
The Commissioner determined that this arrangement
was a transfer in trust intended to take effect in possession
or enjoyment at or after death within the meaning of
§ 302 (c) of the Revenue Act of 1926, 44 Stat. 9, 70, and
that the net value of all the property comprising the
corpus of the trust should be included in the decedent's
gross estate for estate tax purposes. The executors, however, denied that the transfer fell within the meaning of

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

§ 302 (c); they further claimed that even if § 302 (c) did
apply the value of the life estates of the settlor's daughters and the value of the remainders to their surviving
descendants should be deducted from the value of the
trust assets for tax purposes.
The executors paid a tax on the full value of the trust
assets and filed this claim for refund of the tax. The District Court denied recovery and the court below affirmed.
142 F. 2d 838. Conflict with Field's Estate v. Commissioner, 144 F. 2d 62, led us to grant certiorari limited to
the question of whether the entire value of the corpus
of the trust at the time of decedent's death should have
been included in the decedent's gross estate.
The courts below, utilizing the principles set forth in
Klein v. United States, 283 U. S. 231, and Helvering v.
[allock, 309 U. S. 106, correctly held that the decedent's
transfer in trust in 1928 was one intended to take effect
in possession or enjoyment at or after death within the
meaning of § 302 (c) of the Revenue Act of 1926, prior
to the amendments of 1931 and 1932. While the matter
of valuation was not argued and was not directly in issue
in those cases, the inescapable consequence of the principles enunciated there and in the dissenting opinion in
Helvering v. St. Louis Union Trust Co., 296 U. S. 39, 46,
is to include the entire trust corpus in the gross estate of
the decedent under these circumstances.
Section 302 (c) itself provides for the inclusion within
the gross estate of property "to the extent of any interest
therein of which the decedent has at any time made a
transfer, by trust or otherwise, in contemplation of or
intended to take effect in possession or enjoyment at or
after his death." As we said in Helvering v. Hallock,
supra, 110, 111, this provision "deals with property not
technically passing at death but with interests theretofore
created. The taxable event is a transfer inter vivos. But

FIDELITY CO. v. ROTHENSIES.
108

Opinion of the Court.

the measure of the tax is the value of the transferred property at the time when death brings it into enjoyment."
Cf. Reinecke v. Northern Trust Co., 278 U. S. 339, 347.
The taxable gross estate, in other words, must include
those property interests the ultimate possession or enjoyment of which is held in suspense until the moment of the
grantor's death or thereafter.
Tested by that standard, the entire corpus of the trust
should have been included in the decedent's gross estate
and an estate tax levied on its net value at the date of
decedent's death. The ultimate disposition of all the
trust property was suspended during the life of the decedent. Only at or after her death was it certain whether
the property would be distributed under the power of
appointment or as provided in the trust instrument. The
life estates of the daughters were contingent upon their
surviving their mother and took effect in enjoyment only
at the death of the latter. The remainder interests of the
descendants of the daughters were contingent upon their
surviving both the decedent and the daughters and took
effect in possession only after the death of the decedent.
Thus until the moment of her death or until an undetermined time thereafter the decedent held a string or contingent power of appointment over the total corpus of the
trust. The retention of such a string, which might have
resulted in altering completely the plan contemplated by
the trust instrument for the transmission of decedent's
property, subjected the value of the entire corpus to estate
tax liability.
It is fruitless to speculate on the probabilities of the
property being distributed under the contingent power of
appointment. Indeed, such speculation is irrelevant to
the measurement of estate tax liability. The application
of this tax does not depend upon "elusive and subtle
cauistries." Helvering v. Hatlock, supra, 118. No more

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
DOUGLAS,

J., concurring.

-324 U. S.

should the measure of the tax depend upon conjectures as
to the propinquity or certainty of the decedent's reversionary interests. It is enough if he retains some contingent interest in the property until his death or thereafter, delaying until then the ripening of full dominion
over the property by the beneficiaries. The value of the
property subject to the contingency, rather than the
actuarial or theoretical value of the possibility of the
occurrence of the contingency, is the measure of the tax.
That value is demonstrated by the consequences that
would flow in this instance from the decedent's survival
of her daughters and any of the latter's surviving
descendants.
We are not concerned here with determining whether
the values of any property interests or intervening estates
not affected by the decedent's death and not subject to the
contingent power of appointment should be deducted from
the value of the corpus. The value of the life estate
retained by the decedent obviously cannot be deducted.
And the life estates of the daughters and the remainder
interests of their surviving descendants were all subject
to divestment by the contingent power of appointment
and were freed from this contingency only at or after
the decedent's death. There is thus no basis for deducting
their values as suggested by petitioners.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, concurring.

The District Court found that this trust was "intended
to take effect in possession or enjoyment at or after" the
death of the decedent. The Circuit Court of Appeals
agreed. Certiorari was not granted on that question but
only on the question whether the entire value of the
corpus of the trust at the time of decedent's death should
be included in her gross estate. So in this case, as in
Commissioner v. Estate of Field, post, p. 113, we are

COMMiSSIOINtR v. EISTArrE OF iELD. 113
108

Syllabus.

not faced with the question whether May v. Heiner, 281
U. S. 238, should survive Helvering v. Hallock, 309 U. S.
106. On the findings of the District Court, it is plain
that the entire corpus must be included in decedent's
gross estate by virtue of § 302 (c) of the 1926 Act unless
the value of the life estate must be deducted. The value
of the life estate deducted in the Hallock case was the
life estate in the settlor's wife. It was excluded because
it took effect in possession or enjoyment when the trust
was created. The life estate which the decedent reserved
to herself is obviously in a different category. It is not
an "outstanding life estate" within the meaning of Treasury Regulations 80, Art. 17.
I would rest the decision there and reserve judgment on
the other questions adverted to in the opinion of the
Court.
COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE v.
ESTATE OF FIELD.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. .578. Argued January 5, 1945.-Decided February 5, 1945.
1. Decedent made a transfer of property in trust limited in duration to the lives of two nieces. If decedent survived both nieces
the corpus was to go to the decedent rather than to the beneficiaries named in the trust instrument. The nieces survived the
decedent. Held that, under § 302 (c) of the Revenue Act of 1926,
the value of the entire corpus of the trust property at the death
of the decedent was includible in the gross estate for the purpose
of the federal estate tax. Fidelity-PhiladelphiaTrust Co. v. Rothensies, ante, p. 108. P. 115.
2. Since the corpus of the trust did not shed the possibility of reversion until the decedent's death, the value of the entire corpus
on the date of death was taxable under § 302 (c). P. 116.
144 F. 2d 62, reversed.

