OCTOBER TERM, 1944.

760

324 U. S.

Syllabus.

istence of facts which would lead a reasonable and prudent
person to believe that the granting of a lower price would
in fact meet the equally low price of a competitor. Nor
was the Commission wrong in holding that respondents
failed to meet this burden.
The appraisal of the evidence and the inferences to be
drawn from it are for the Commission, not the courts. See
Federal Trade Commission v. Pacific States Paper Trade

Assn., supra, 63; Federal Trade Commission v. Algoma
Lumber Co., supra,73. We cannot say that the Commission's inference is not supported by the stipulated facts
or that its inference does not support its order.
The Commission's order will be sustained. The judgment below will be reversed, and the cause remanded with
instructions to enforce the Commission's order.

So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

MR. JUSTICE JACKSON concurs in the result.

WHITE v. RAGEN, WARDEN.
NO. 212.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ILLINOIS.*

Argued March 29, April 2, 1945.-Decided April 23, 1945.
1. The petitions for habeas corpus in these cases sufficiently alleged
violations of petitioners' rights under the Federal Constitution.
P. 764.
2. This Court is unable to say that the refusal of the Supreme Court
of Illinois to entertain the petitions for habeas corpus in these cases
does not rest on an adequate non-federal ground; and the writs
of certiorari herein must be dismissed. P. 766.
* Together with No. 259, Lutz v. Ragen, Warden, also on certiorari
to the Supreme Court of Illinois.

WHITE v. RAGEN.
760

Opinion of the Court.

3. In view of the practice adopted by the Supreme Court of Illinois, it
follows that whenever a petition originally filed in that court for a
writ of habeas corpus is denied, without opinion or other indication
of the ground of its decision, and when the petition relies on allegations of fact to raise federal questions, it is unnecessary for the
petitioner, in order to exhaust his state remedies, to apply to this
Court for certiorari to review the judgment of the Supreme Court
of Illinois. A denial of certiorari by this Court in such circumstances does not bar an application to a federal district court for the
relief, grounded on federal rights, which the Supreme Court of
Illinois has denied. But any other state remedies, if available,
must be exhausted before any application to the federal district
court. P. 767.
4. A petition for certiorari to review a judgment of the Supreme
Court of Illinois denying an application for habeas corpus, which
must be denied here because the decision of that court appears
to rest on an adequate non-federal ground, can not be treated as a
petition to review a decision of a lower court of the State which
had denied an earlier application for habeas corpus, since the
petition in the lower state court is not before this Court and its
contents do not otherwise appear of record. P. 767.
Writs dismissed.
CERTIoRARI,

323 U. S. 704, to review judgments denying

leave to file petitions for habeas corpus.

Mr. Wilber G. Katz for petitioners.
William C. Wines, Assistant Attorney General of
Illinois, with whom George F. Barrett, Attorney General, was on the brief, for respondent.
PER CURIAM.

In these cases, petitioners moved in the Supreme Court
of Illinois for leave to file their petitions for habeas corpus.
Both petitioners are in the custody of respondent, under
sentences upon state convictions. In each case, the Illinois court, without requiring an answer from respondent,
without appointing an attorney to represent petitioners,

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

and without giving any reasons for its action, denied leave
to file the petitions. We granted certiorari, in forma pauperis, 323 U. S. 704, because the petitions alleged facts
showing prima facie violations of petitioners' rights guaranteed by the federal Constitution, and in order to consider whether the State of Illinois affords corrective process
for such violations of constitutional right.' On application of the petitioners, counsel was appointed to represent
them in this Court.
Petitioner White, in No. 212, alleged in
his petition for
habeas corpus that two indictments for "obtaining money
and goods by means of the confidence game" were returned
against him in the state Criminal Court; that the court,
in advance of the trial, appointed counsel to represent
petitioner, but that the person so appointed did not confer with petitioner until they came to court for the trial;
that then counsel refused to do anything for petitioner unless petitioner had some money; that in particular petiI In the last two terms of this Court, to April 21, 1945, 225 petitions
for certiorari have been filed to review the denial by the Illinois Supreme Court of leave to file petitions for habeas corpus. From our
examination of these applications, it appears that in no case did the
Supreme Court of Illinois depart from the practice of denying leave
to file without calling for a response and without opinion. Many of
these applications disclosed that the petitioners had previously made
application to one or more circuit or criminal courts in Illinois, where
in the large majority of cases their petitions were denied without calling for a response or appointing an attorney, and without giving any
reason for the denial other than the statement in some cases that the
court lacked jurisdiction. In a few of these lower court cases, in which
attorneys were appointed to represent the petitioners, the petitions
were denied without further proceedings.
It also has come to the attention of this Court that for some years
the warden of the Illinois State Penitentiary, contrary to Ex parte
Hull, 312 U. S. 546, denied the rights of prisoners to access to the
courts unless they procured counsel to represent them. See United
States ex rel. Foley v. Ragen, 52 F. Supp. 265, 143 F. 2d 774; United
States ex rel. Bongiorno v. Ragen, 54 F. Supp. 973.

WHITE v. RAGEN.
760

Opinion of the Court.

tioner asked counsel to have one witness called in his behalf but counsel replied that "he did not have time, as
he had a case in another Court, and for me to plead guilty,
as the Judge would not give me a continuance." The petition for habeas corpus further alleged that petitioner asked
the trial judge "to continue the proceedings so he could
have time to call a witness, and confer with his attorney";
that the judge then told petitioner "to keep still, as his
lawyer would do all the talking for him" and "thereupon
the attorney pleaded the petitioner guilty to. two indictments," on which he was given sentences of from one to
ten years, to be served concurrently; and that petitioner
was thereby denied the assistance of counsel in a criminal
trial in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The petition for habeas corpus of petitioner Lutz, in No.
259, alleged that he was tried and convicted for the crime
of murder in the state Circuit Court; that he was sentenced
to life imprisonment; and that his trial and conviction
were without due process in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment, in that his conviction was obtained by the
use of false testimony of two witnesses for the state. It
was alleged that the prosecuting attorney induced and procured this testimony by bribery of the witnesses; and that
he introduced it at the trial, with knowledge that it was
false. Attached to the petition are the affidavits of the
two witnesses in question, each stating that his testimony
at the trial was false and that he was bribed to give it by
the prosecuting attorney. The affidavits of two other persons, also attached to the petition, tend to corroborate the
affidavits of the two witnesses.
Since the Supreme Court of Illinois dismissed both petitions without requiring respondent to answer, we must
assume that the petitioners' allegations are true. Williams v. Kaiser, 323 U. S. 471, 473-474; House v. Mayo,
324 U. S. 42. We have many times repeated that not only
does due process require that a defendant, on trial in a

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

state court upon a serious criminal charge and unable to
defend himself, shall have the benefit of counsel, compare
Williams v. Kaiser, supra, Tomkins v. Missouri, 323 U. S.
485 and Rice v. Olson, post, p. 786, with Betts v. Brady,
316 U. S. 455, but that it is a denial of the accused's constitutional right to a fair trial to force him to trial with such
expedition as to deprive him of the effective aid and assistance of counsel. Powell v. Alabama, 287 U. S. 45;
Avery v. Alabama, 308 U. S. 444; Ex parte Hawk, 321
U. S. 114, 115-116; House v. Mayo, supra. And we have
often pointed out that a conviction, secured by the use of
perjured testimony known to be such by the prosecuting
attorney, is a denial of due process. Mooney v. Holohan,
294 U. S. 103; Pyle v. Kansas, 317 U. S. 213; cf. New York
ex rel. Whitman v. Wilson, 318 U. S. 688. It follows that
the allegations of fact in the petitions are sufficient to make
out prima facie cases of violation of these constitutional
rights of petitioners, sufficient to invoke corrective process
in some court, and in the federal district court if none is
afforded by the state.
The availability of such a remedy in the federal district
court, turning as it does on the exhaustion of state corrective processes, see Mooney v. Holohan, supra; Ex parte
Hawk, supra, 116-117, may also depend upon an application to this Court to review the decision of the state court,
and upon the disposition of such an application here.
Where the highest state court in which a decision could
be had considers and adjudicates the merits of a petition
for habeas corpus, state remedies, including appellate review, are not exhausted so as to permit the filing of a
petition for habeas corpus in a federal district court, unless
the federal question involved is presented to this Court
on certiorari or appeal from the state court decision. Ex
parteHawk, supra, 116-117.
If this Court denies certiorari after a state court decision
on the merits, or if it reviews the case on the merits, a fed-

WHITE v. RAGEN.
760

Opinion of the Court.

eral district court will not usually reexamine on habeas
corpus the questions thus adjudicated. Ex parte Hawk,
supra, 118. But where the decision of the state court is
that the remedy of habeas corpus is not available under
the state practice, or its decision is based upon some other
adequate non-federal ground, it is unnecessary for the
petitioner to ask this Court for certiorari in order to exhaust his state remedies, since we would lack jurisdiction
to review the decision of the state court; and the denial
of certiorari by this Court would not preclude a district
court from inquiring into the federal question presented to,
but not considered by, the state court. See House v.
Mayo, supra, 48. Hence, when this Court denies or dismisses certiorari in this type of case, without passing on
the merits, it may, as in the present case, be of importance
to the administration of justice in the federal district
courts, that we indicate authoritatively for their guidance
the view we take of the availability of the state remedies,
and the reasons for our decision.
On the argument of these cases in this Court the Attorney General of Illinois urged that the writs of certiorari be
dismissed for want of our jurisdiction to entertain them.
It was argued, inter alia,that the record in each case, when
read in the light of the Illinois law, indicates that the judgment of the state Supreme Court, denying leave to file,
did not decide any federal question or at least that the
record fails to show that the judgment does not rest on a
state ground adequate to support it. But the Supreme
Court of Illinois has not stated the grounds for its denial
of the petitions for habeas corpus, and examination of the
record leaves us in doubt as to whether it decided the federal questions presented by the petitions, or whether
decision turned upon state grounds.
In support of respondent's contention that the judgments of the Illinois Supreme Court rest upon a non-federal ground, our attention is directed to the decision of that

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

court, rendered on March 22, 1945, in the case of People
ex rel. Swolley v. Ragen, 390 Ill. 106. There, as here, the
Supreme Court of Illinois denied leave to file a petition
for a writ of habeas corpus, without requiring respondent
to answer. In denying the relief sought, the court made
an "announcement" to be filed with the record in the
case, with respect to its practice upon original applications
for habeas corpus in that court. In its announcement
it declared: "Any petition which raises questions of fact
only will not be considered. This court does not try
questions of fact."
In that case there was no answer or response to the petition and hence no issue of fact had been raised. Dismissal of the petition might therefore involve a decision
on the legal sufficiency of the facts alleged in the petition.
Since there were no issues of fact at that stage of the
proceeding, and since a question of law, the legal sufficiency of the petition, is always then present, we must take
it, as the Attorney General of Illinois states, that the
court's announcement means that the Supreme Court of
the state will not entertain original applications for habeas
corpus, save on a record which excludes on its face the
possibility of any trial in that court of an issue of fact.
In the face of the announcement, evidently intended to
settle the practice upon petitions for habeas corpus in
that court, and in the absence of any opinion indicating
that decision in the present cases turned on a federal
question, we cannot say that the refusal to entertain the
petitions for habeas corpus in these cases does not rest on
an adequate non-federal ground. For that reason, we
2

Apparently the practice of the Illinois Supreme Court was not

heretofore so restricted. Cf. People ex rel. Day v. Lewis, 376 Ill.
509, 34 N. E. 2d 712, where the court called for a return to a petition
which alleged arbitrary action by state officers in revoking petitioner's
"good-time" credit.

WHITE v. RAGEN.
760

Opinion of the Court.

must dismiss these writs of certiorari. We do not reach
the alternative argument, made by the Attorney General,
that petitioners' remedy in the state courts is not habeas
corpus, but the statutory substitute for the writ of error
coram nobis, Ill. Civil Practice Act, ยง 72, and that the two
remedies are mutually exclusive.
It follows that whenever the Illinois Supreme Court
denies a petition for the writ originally filed in that court,
without opinion or other indication of the ground of its
decision, and when the petition relies on allegations of
fact to raise federal questions, it is unnecessary for the
petitioner, in order to exhaust his state remedies, to apply
to this Court for certiorari to review the judgment of the
Supreme Court of Illinois. A denial of certiorari by this
Court in such circumstances does not bar an application
to a federal district court for the relief, grounded on federal
rights, which the Supreme Court of Illinois has denied.
But any other state remedies, if available, must be exhausted before any application to the federal district court.
Ex parte Hawk, supra, 116-117.
Petitioner White had made an earlier application for
habeas corpus to the Criminal Court of Cook County. On
the argument, counsel for petitioner White asked that in
the event it be decided that the Illinois Supreme Court's
decision was based upon an adequate non-federal ground,
his petition for certiorari be treated as seeking review of
the decision of the Criminal Court.8 We are unable to do
3
A denial of habeas corpus by the lower state courts in Illinois,
which have jurisdiction concurrent with that of the State Supreme
Court to issue habeas corpus, see Ill. Ann. Stat. (Smith-Hurd), ch. 65,
ยง 2; People v. Superior Court, 234 Ill. 186, 197, 84 N. E. 875, appears
not to be reviewable by the Illinois Supreme Court. See People v.
McAnally, 221 Ill. 66, 77 N. E. 544; People v. Siman, 284 Ill.28, 119
N. E. 940. For purposes of review here under ยง 237 of the Judicial
Code, 28 U. S. C. ยง 344, the denial of habeas corpus by one of the

768

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
324 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

so, since we do not have before us the petition in the
Criminal Court, and its contents do not otherwise appear
of record.
Dismissed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS concurs in the result.

UNITED STATES v. BEUTTAS

ET AL., TRADING AS

B-W

CONSTRUCTION CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 431. Argued March 1, 1945.-Decided April 23, 1945.
In the circumstances of this case, there was no basis for recovery by
the contractor of the difference between the higher wages paid and
those specified in the Government contract. P. 772.
101 Ct. Cls. 748, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 323 U. S. 702, to review a judgment for the
plaintiff in an action against the United States on a contract.

Mr. Ralph F. Fuchs, with whom Solicitor GeneralFahy,
Assistant Attorney GeneralShea, Messrs. PaulA. Sweeney
and Jerome H. Simonds were on the brief, for the United
States.
lower courts of Illinois, not reviewable in any other state court, is a
decision by the highest court of the state in which a decision could be
had. Betts v. Brady, 316 U. S. 455; cf. Largent v. Texas, 318 U. S.
418. And it follows from the lack of a remedy in the Illinois Supreme
Court in such a case, that an original application to that court for
the writ is not prerequisite to review here of the decision of the lower
state court. Cf. Tenner v. Dullea,314 U. S. 692.

