OCTOBER TERM, 1944.

780

Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

acquiesced. The record disclosed this situation, the defensive pleading relied upon it, and the court was asked
to dismiss because of it. The complaint should have been
dismissed. The judgment is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK concurs in the result.
COPPERWELD STEEL CO. v. INDUSTRIAL COMMISSION OF OHIO.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF OHIO.

No. 684. Argued April 5, 6, 1945.-Decided April 23, 1945.
The state court decision of which review is here sought was grounded
upon the view that the appellant had not pursued the remedy afforded by state law for the vindication of any constitutional right
claimed to have been violated; so the appeal must be dismissed and
certiorari denied. P. 785.
143 Ohio St. 591, 56 N. E. 2d 154, appeal dismissed; certiorari denied.
APPEAL

from a judgment sustaining a demurrer in pro-

ceedings challenging the validity of awards made to employees of the appellant by the state commission.
Mr. Robert G. Day, with whom Messrs. H. H. Hoppe,
Frank R. S. Kaplan, Maurice J. Mahoney and E. P.
McHugh, Jr. were on the brief, for appellant.
Albertus B. Conn, Assistant Attorney General, and Mr.
E. G. Schuessler, with whom Hugh S. Jenkins, Attorney
General, was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The appellant conducts a manufacturing plant at Warren, Ohio, and is an employer as the term is defined by the
workmen's compensation law of the State. In an original

COPPERWELD
780

CO. v. COMM'N.

Opinion of the Court.

proceeding instituted in the Supreme Court, the State's
highest tribunal, it challenged awards made to certain of
its employees, alleging that the injuries suffered were not
incurred in the course of, and did not arise out of, the employment; that the awards were, therefore, beyond the
jurisdiction of the Industrial Commission which entered
them, and, unless they were abrogated, the appellant
would be deprived of its property without due process of
law; further, that unless relief were afforded the appellant
would be denied the equal protection of the laws.
From a decision sustaining a demurrer and granting
judgment for the defendant 1 this appeal was taken. The
appellee moved to dismiss. We postponed consideration
of the motion to the hearing on the merits, as we were not
satisfied that the appellant had properly presented in the
court below any issue as to the infirmity of the state law
under the federal Constitution, or that the judgment of
the Supreme Court of Ohio did not rest on an application
of state law adequate to support it.
The questions posed for our decision, the manner of
their presentation to the state court and that court's disposition of them will be understood only in the light of
the provisions of the workmen's compensation law, the
commission's action under that law, and the character of
the relief sought by the appellant.
The compensation law is of the compulsory type.2 It
is administered by an Industrial Commission, which classifies industries in respect of hazards, and fixes premiums
to be paid by employers into a state fund for the benefit of
injured workmen and the dependents of those killed. It
I I The petition was held demurrable (142 0. S. 439, 52 N. E. 2d 735),
was amended, demurred to, and judgment for defendant was rendered on demurrer (143 0. S. 591, 56 N. E. 2d 154).
2 The, summary of the statutory provisions is drawn from the General Code of Ohio, §§ 871-1-871-12; 871-38; 1465-37; 1465-53;
1465-54; 1465-60,-68,-69,-69a,-70,-72,-73,-74,-75,-90.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

may adopt merit ratings which reduce the premiums of
employers having a low casualty rate.
Every employer subject to the Act is required either to
pay premiums into the fund or to qualify as a self-insurer.
Payments of compensation for injury or death are made
from the state fund in respect of employees of a contributing employer and are paid directly by a self-insuring
employer. Employers of both classes are relieved of common-law liability for an employee's injury or death.
Those, however, who fail to comply in one of the permissible ways remain liable at law, are denied certain defenses in an action by the employee or his representative
and, with their officers, are liable to criminal penalties for
failure to comply with the Act. Their employees may,
nevertheless, elect to claim compensation, and if it is
awarded, an action to recover the amount may be maintained against the employer. Such an action may also be
maintained against a self-insuring employer who fails to
pay an award.
Should an employer who is subject to the Act fail to pay
premiums, or otherwise omit to comply, means are provided to fix civil liability upon him, even to the extent of
the appointment of a receiver of his business.
The Commission has authority to hear and decide all
questions within its jurisdiction. If it makes an award to
a claimant its action is final. Neither the employer nor
the claimant is given any appeal or right of review. If
the Commission refuses an award on certain grounds specified in the Act the claimant may appeal to a court.
It is conceded by the appellee that if a self-insuring or
a non-complying employer is sued for the amount of an
award the defense is open to him that the employee
granted the award was not injured in the course of his
employment or that the injury did not arise out of the
employment. In the case of a complying employer who
pays premiums into the state fund no such defense is open.,

COPPERWELD
780

CO. v. COMM'N.

Opinion of the Court.

for the award is paid from the fund, and he is not a party
to the transaction.
We turn now to the facts alleged in appellant's petition.
So far as material they follow. The men who were injured
or killed were employees in appellant's plant. At the close
of their work they left the plant in an automobile and
chose one of several ways of egress-a public road, which
at a short distance from the plant crossed the Baltimore &
Ohio Railroad's track. While crossing this track the automobile was struck by a train. The Commission, despite
appellant's representation that the resulting injuries and
deaths were not compensable under the Act, entered
awards. By its amended petition the appellant showed
that as a result of the inclusion of the awards in its accident experience its premiums had been greatly increased.
On the first hearing the Supreme Court overruled appellant's contention that § 871-38 of the code authorized the
institution of proceedings in that court to set aside compensation awards. Treating the petition as one for a writ
of prohibition, the court held that remedy unavailable to
control the action of the Commission in rendering awards.
If considered as an application for mandamus, the court
found that the provisions of the workmen's compensation
law precluded the issuance of the writ. Construing the
prayer as one for injunction, "the court held that the law
of Ohio invested it with no original jurisdiction in equity,
and that general equity jurisdiction is conferred on the
Courts of Common Pleas of the State.T.
These are all
rulings as to the law of Ohio, and, as such, we are without
power to review them.....
in its amended petition. the appellant insisted that its
purpose. was to -raise questions of constitutionality; and
that it was without remedy against the loss of its merit
rating and the increase of its premiums unless the court
should set aside the awards.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

3241T. S-

In a second opinion the court noticed these allegations.
It held that as appellant was not a party to the compensation proceeding and as the awards were payable, not by
the appellant, but by the state fund, in which appellant
had no property interest, it could not be said that payment
of the awards deprived appellant of any property. It said
that appellant's interests could be affected only when it
was called on to pay increased premiums as a result of the
awards, and adverted to the fact that appellant could
refuse to pay premiums, and defend a suit for them
brought under § 1465-75 of the Act. As to this the appellant urges that the penalties, civil and criminal, which
would be imposed upon it and its officers if it pursued such
a course amount to a denial of all remedy. Of this, more
hereafter.
In respect to the denial of equal protection, the court
below seems not to have dealt with the argument as presented in this court. It quoted decisions which sustained
as reasonable classifications of employers for imposition
of varying rates of premium adjusted to the risks incident
to their enterprises. Except as above noted, it had nothing
to say to the appellant's contention that whereas selfinsurers and non-compliers may make the defense of excess of the Commission's jurisdiction when sued for the
amount of an award, it cannot assert such a defense when
sued for premiums. In our view, the answer to both of
the constitutional contentions, though not clearly expressed below, is that it does not appear the appellant is
without remedy, if entitled to redress. For it is stated'
without contradiction, that there are courts in the State
having general equity jurisdiction, and if resort to a de
fense at law involves the perils and penalties the appellant
asserts, we are not advised that equity will not consider
an application for relief. Certainly we can neither require
the Supreme Court to exercise a-jurisdiction it finds is not
conferred upon it by law, nor express any view as to the
relief to which the appellant may be entitled, in advance of

COPPERWELD CO. v. COMM'N.
780

Opinion of the Court.

its availing itself of a forum apparently not foreclosed to it
for the protection of its asserted constitutional rights.
What has been said assumes that we have jurisdiction
of the appeal. The assumption involves the answer to
two questions. First, were questions under the Fourteenth
Amendment presented and decided below? We think that
the appellant disclosed, and the court below understood,
that the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment of the
federal Constitution were invoked. Not only does the
Ohio Constitution embody no provisions in the words of
that Article but it is doubtful that it contains any equivalent provisions. While the appellant's petition did not
mention the Amendment, it used the exact phraseology in
which it is couched. The pleadings and the expressions
found in the opinions lead us to conclude that questions
under the federal charter were presented and considered.
Secondly, was the constitutional validity of the state
statute drawn in question? If not, we have no jurisdiction on appeal. But, as violation of the federal Constitution by the decision of the state court is, in any case, involved, we have jurisdiction to review the decision on
certiorari (28 U. S. C. 344 (c)). The question of the
propriety of entertaining the appeal need not be decided,
in the view we take of the basis of the state court's
judgment. Inasmuch as we conclude that decision was
grounded upon the view that the appellant had not pursued the remedy afforded by state law for the vindication
of any constitutional right it claimed was violated, we
must dismiss the appeal and deny certiorari.
So ordered.

