COMMISSIONER v. SMITH.
Opinion of the Court.

COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE v.
SMITH.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 371. Argued January 30, 31, 1945.-Decided February 26, 1945.
An employer gave to its employee as compensation for his services an
option to purchase shares of stock at a price not less than the then
value of the stock. The option had no value at that time, and the
compensation contemplated by the parties was the transfer to the
employee of the shares of stock after their value had increased to
more than the option price. Held, under § 22 (a) of the Revenue
Act of 1938 and of the Internal Revenue Code, the employee
received "compensation for personal service" and hence taxable income in each year in which stock was acquired, through effective
exercise of the option in that year, in the amount of the difference
between the option price and the then market value of the stock.
P. 181.
142 F. 2d 818, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 323 U. S. 696, to review the reversal of a
decision of the Tax Court which sustained the Commissioner's determination of a deficiency in income tax.

Mr. J. Louis Monarch, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Samuel 0. Clark, Jr.,
and Mr. Sewall Key were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Clarence D. Phillips, with whom Messrs. Franklin
T. Griffith and Earl S. Nelson were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Respondent's employer gave to him, as compensation
for his services, an option to purchase from the employer
certain shares of stock of another corporation at a price
not less than the then value of the stock. In two later

178

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

tax years, when the market value of the stock was greater
than the option price, respondent exercised the option,
purchasing large amounts of the stock in each year. The
question for decision is whether the difference between
the market value and the option price of the stock was
compensation for personal services of the employee, taxable as income in the years when he received the stock,
under § 22 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1938, c. 289, 52 Stat.
447, and § 22 (a) of the Internal Revenue Code, 26 U. S. C.
§ 22 (a).
Upon a petition to review the Commissioner's finding
of a tax deficiency against respondent for those years, the
Tax Court sustained the Commissioner. The Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed, 142 F. 2d 818,
holding that there was no finding and no evidence to support a finding, that the option was intended to enable
respondent to make a "bargain purchase" or that the stock
was issued to him as compensation for services. It concluded that the exercise of the option was a mere purchase
of a capital investment which could result in taxable income only upon sale of the stock. We granted certiorari,
323 U. S. 696, on a petition which asserted conflict of the
decision below with the decision of the Court of Appeals
for the Sixth Circuit in Connolly's Estate v. Commissioner,
135 F. 2d 64.
The Tax Court found that for many years, and at all
relevant times, respondent was employed by the Western
Cooperage Company. In 1934 Western took over the
management of the Hawley Pulp and Paper Co. pursuant
to a plan for its reorganization. Hawley was then in
financial difficulties, with an indebtedness amounting to
$2,790,150. Under its contract with Hawley, Western
was to retire annually a certain amount of Hawley's indebtedness. In the event of success in this undertaking,
and when the amount of Hawley's indebtedness had been
reduced by the sum of $1,400,000, Western was to receive

COMMISSIONER v. SMITH.
177

Opinion of the Court.

specified amounts of the Hawley Company's capital stock
as compensation for the services thus rendered.
Respondent, in the course of his employment by Western, was active in the reorganization of the Hawley Company. As compensation for his services, the president of
Western, in December 1934, gave respondent an oral option to purchase a part of the Hawley stock, to be acquired
by Western under its contract. This action was confirmed
by resolution of the Board of Directors of Western, pursuant to which Western, as of December 10, 1934, and
"in consideration of services rendered" by respondent
prior to that date, agreed in writing to sell to respondent
at his option, at ten cents a share, a specified proportion of
such shares of common stock as it might be entitled to
receive under its contract with Hawley. On March 18,
1938, Western became entitled to the stipulated number
of shares of the Hawley stock as provided by the contract
with Hawley. In that and the following year respondent,
by the exercise of his option, acquired from Western large
amounts of the stock on payment of the option price.
The Tax Court found that at the date of the option the
market price of the stock did not exceed the option price,
but that in 1938 the market value of the stock then acquired by respondent exceeded its option price by $81,021,
and the value of that acquired in 1939 exceeded the option
price by $71,663. The court found from the option itself,
the resolution of Western's Board of Directors, and from
petitioner's own testimony, that "Western gave the option
to petitioner [respondent here] as compensation for services rendered in effecting the reorganization plan of Hawley." It held that the excess of the market value of the
shares over the option price in the years when the shares
were received by respondent, was compensation for his
services, taxable as income in those years.
Since the Tax Court found that the market price of the
stock on the date of the option did not exceed the option

180

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

price, it is evident that its finding that the option was
given as compensation for respondent's services, had reference to the compensation to be derived from exercise of
the option after the anticipated advance in market price
of the stock. Respondent testified that if the option could
have been sold at the time he received it, it would have
been for only a "negligible" or "nominal" amount. He
has never contended that the option itself had value when
given and there was no finding by the Tax Court that it
then had value. The Tax Court, in stating the principle
which it deemed applicable to the present case, quoted
from Estate of Edward J. Connolly, 45 B. T. A. 374, as
follows: "If the options had never been exercised the
optionees would never have received any additional compensation." The option could be exercised only when
Western's contract with Hawley had been successfully
performed by the reduction of a large part of Hawley's
indebtedness, which would result in an increase in the
value of Hawley's capital stock to be received by Western
subject to respondent's option. Moreover, the Tax Court
concluded as a matter of law that the facts which it found,
and which we have detailed, brought the case, for the
tax year 1938, within the provisions of § 22 (a) of the
Revenue Act of 1938, and of the interpretative Treasury
Regulations 101, Art. 22 (a)-l; and for the tax year 1939,
within the identical provisions of § 22 (a) of the Internal
Revenue Code, and Treasury Regulations 103, Art. 19.22
(a)-1.
Section 22 (a) of the Revenue Act defines "gross income" subject to the Act as including "gains, profits, and
income derived from salaries, wages, or compensation for
personal service, of whatever kind and in whatever form
paid. . . ." Treasury Regulations 101, Art. 22 (a)-1 provides: "If property is transferred . . . by an employer to
an employee, for an amount substantially less than its
fair market value, regardless of whether the transfer is in

COMMISSIONER v. SMITH.
Opinion of the Court.

177

the guise of a sale or exchange, such . . . employee shall
include in gross income the difference between the amount
paid for the property and the amount of its fair market
value to the extent that such difference is in the nature
of (1) compensation for services rendered . . ."
Section 22 (a) of the Revenue Act is broad enough to
include in taxable income any economic or financial benefit conferred on the employee as compensation, whatever
the form or mode by which it is effected. See Old Colony
Trust Co. v. Commissioner, 279 U. S.716, 729. The regulation specifically includes in income, property "transferred . . .by an employer to an employee, for an amount
substantially less than its fair market value," even though
the transfer takes the form of a sale or exchange, to the
extent that the employee receives compensation.
In certain aspects an option may be spoken of as "property" in the hands of the option holder. Cf. Helvering v.
San JoaquinFruit Co., 297 U. S.496, 498; Shuster v. Helvering, 121 F. 2d 643, 645. When the option price is less
than the market price of the property for the purchase of
which the option is given, it may have present value and
may be found to be itself compensation for services rendered. But it is plain that in the circumstances of the
present case, the option when given did not operate to
transfer any of the shares of stock from the employer to
the employee within the meaning of § 22 (a) and Art. 22
(a)-1. Cf. Palmerv. Commissioner,302 U. S.63, 71. And
as the option was not found to have any market value
when given, it could not itself operate to compensate respondent. It could do so only as it might be the means of
securing the transfer of the shares of stock from the employer to the employee at a price less than their market
value, or possibly, which we do not decide, as the option
might be sold when that disparity in value existed. Hence
the compensation for respondent's services, which the parties contemplated, plainly was not confined to the mere
637582--46

16

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Syllabus.

324 U. S.

delivery to respondent of an option of no present value, but
included the compensation obtainable by the exercise of
the option given for that purpose. It of course does not
follow that in other circumstances not here present the
option itself, rather than the proceeds of its exercise, could
not be found to be the only intended compensation.
The Tax Court thus found that the option was given to
respondent as compensation for services, and implicitly
that the compensation referred to was the excess in value
of the shares of stock over the option price whenever the
option was exercised. From these facts it concluded that
the compensation was taxable as such by the provisions
of the applicable Revenue Acts and regulations. We find
no basis for disturbing its findings, and we conclude it correctly applied the law to the facts found. Its decision is
affirmed, and the judgment of the Court of Appeals below,
reversing it, is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS is of the opinion that the judgment should be affirmed for the reasons stated by the
Circuit Court of Appeals, 142 F. 2d 818.

CHARLESTON FEDERAL SAVINGS & LOAN ASSOCIATION ET AL. V. ALDERSON, STATE TAX
COMMISSIONER.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF WEST
VIRGINIA.

No. 400. Argued February 7, 1945.-Decided February 26, 1945.
1. The validity of a state statute under the Federal Constitution does
not appear to have been drawn in question in this suit in the state
courts challenging tax assessments, and an appeal under § 237 (a)
of the Judicial Code as amended is unauthorized; but under § 237 (c)
certiorari is granted, since appellants properly raised the question
of the validity of the assessments under the equal protection clause
of the Federal Constitution. Pp. 184, 187.

