474

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

284 U.S.

UNITED STATES NAVIGATION CO., INC., v.
CUNARD STEAMSHIP CO., LTD., ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPRALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 296. Argued January 8, 11,1 1932.-Decided February 15; 1932.
1. The relation of the Shipping Act to carriers by water is substantially the same as the relation of the Interstate Commerce
Act to carriers by land; and owing to the close parallelism between
the two, the construction of the Interstate Commerce Act, settled
when the Shipping Act was passed, must be applied to the latter,
* unless, in particular instancs, 'there be something peculiar in the
question under consideration, or dissimilarity in the terms of the
Act relating thereto, requiring a different conclusion. P. 480.
2. Questions essentially of fact, and those involving the exercise of
administrative discretion, which are within the jurisdiction of the
Shipping Board, are primarily within its exclusive jurisdiction, and
private remedies must, in general, be sought from the Board before
the jurisdiction of the courts can be invoked. P. 481.
3. A steamship company, by its.bill for an injunction under the Sherman 'and Clayton Acts, alleged that certain of its competitors
were ina combination and conspiracy to exclude it from the business of carrying general cargo between the United States and certain foreign countries and to monopolize such business themselves.
The means alleged included: coercion of shippers by, exaction of
much higher rates from those who did than from those who did not
agree to use the defendants' lines exclusively; giving rebates;
spreading false rumors, that the plaintiff was abdut to discontinue
its service; use of defendants' combined economic bargaining power
to coerce shippers who were also producers of commodities used in
large quantities by the defendants, to enter into joint exclusive contracts with them; and threats to blacklist forwarders, and refuse to
pay them joint brokerage fees, unless 'they 'discontinued making, or
advising shippers to make, shpments in plaintif's 8hips. Held:
(1) The case is remediable under the Shipping Act, since the allegations either constitute direct, and basic charges of violations of
that Act (§§ 14, 14a, 16 and 17), or are so interrelated with such
P. 483.
charges as to be in effect a component part of them. P

U. S. NAV. CO. v. CUNARD S. S. CO.
474

475

Statement of the Case.

(2) The Shipping Act, to this extent, supersedes the antitrust
laws. P. 485.
(3) The matter is within the exclusive preliminary jurisdiction of
the Shipping Board. Id.
"4.Section 15 of the Shipping Act requires that agreements between
carriers "in any manner providing for an exclusive, preferential, or
co~perative working arrangement," shall be filed immediately with
the Board; and thereupon, the Board is authorized to disapprove,
cancel or modify any such agreement, "whether or not previously
approved by it," which-it finds to be unjustly discriminatory or
unfair as between carriers, shippers- etc., "or to operate to the
detriment of the commerce of the United States, or to be in violation of this Act." Held:
(1) That failure to fle such an agreement with the Board will
not afford ground for an injunction under § 16 of the Clayton Act
at the suit of a private party. P. 486.
(2) In case of such failure, § 22 of the Shipping Act authorizes
the Board to afford r~lief upon complaint or upon its own motion;
and its orders are then, under § 31, for the first -time, open to a
judicial proceeding to enforce, suspend or set them aside in accordance, generally, with the rules and limitations announced by this
Court in respect of like orders made by theInterstate Commerce
Commission. Id.
(3)Even though an agreement, as described in a bill for an
injunction, be such that it could not legally be approved, the Board
-has primary original jurisdiction to consider the case upon a full
hearing and with regard to the peculiar nature of ocean traffic, and
to "disapprove, cancel or modify" the agreement that it finds was
made. P. 487.
(4) A decision by the Board adjudging an agreement unlawful
under the Shipping Act after full hearing, will not justify the courts
in entertaining a bill for an injunction with respect to another
agreement between other paities, although, as described by the bill,
it be similar to the agreement that the Board held unlawful. P. 488.
50 F. (2d) 83, affirmed.
CnnRTioRAu * to review a decree affirming the dismissal
of a bill to enjoin alleged violations of the Sherman and
Clayton Acts. 39 F. (2d) 204.
* See table of cases reported in this volume.

476

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Petitioner.

284 U. S.

Mr. Mark W. Maclay, with wbmn Mr. John Tilney
Carpenterwas on the brief; for petitioner.
The Shipping Act expressly confines the powers of the
Board to the provisions of the Act itself "and confers no
general jurisdiction over monopolies and restraints in
respect of ocean carriers.
The only reference to monopolies and restraints-is in
§ 15, relieving approved agreements from the operation
of the antitrust laws,-an exemption which does not
apply to the subject-matter of this suit.
The exception in .§ 16 of the Clayton Act, denying injunctive relief against land carriers in respect of matters
subject to the jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce
Commission, should not be extended by implication to
ocean carriage.
The circumstance that the facts alleged were, or may
have been, also violations of the Shipping Act, is not a
sufficient reason for depriving the petitioner of its legal
or equitable remedies under the antitrust laws, or for
confining it to proceedings before the Shipping Board
under the Shipping Act.
Relief has been given under the Sherman Act, at
common law, and in admiralty, in cases where the facts
included violations of the Shipping Act. Buyer v. Guillan, 271 Fed. 65; European Commercial Co. v. International Mercantile Co., 1923 A. M. C. 211; New Orleans
Box Co. v. Luckenbach S. S. Co., No. 19,745, Dist. Ct.,
U. S., E. Dist. La., Nov. 7, 1930; American Pitch Co. v.
Dixie S. S. Co., No. 20,871, Dist. Ct. U. S., E. Dist. La.,
December 24, 1931; Burgess Bros. Co. v. Stewart, 114
Misc. (N. Y.) 673; Prince Line v. American Exports Co.,
45 F. (2d) 242.
The mere existence of a remedy at the hands of the
Interstate Commerce Commission has not been considered
a bar to relief under the Sherman Act, other remedial
statutes, or on common .law principles. United States v.

U. S. NAV. CO. v. CUNARD S. S. CO.
474

Argument for Petitioner.

. 477

(.

Pacific & Arctic Co., 228 U. S. 87; United States v. Union
PacificR. Co., 226 U. S. 61; United States v. Joint Traffic

Assn., 171 U. S.505; United States v. Trans-Missouri
Freight Assn., 166 U. S. 290; Meeker v. Lehigh Vallep R.
Co., 183 Fed. 548. Distinguishing Keogh v. Chicago
N. W. Ry. Co., 260 U. S. 156.
The requirement of prior resort to the administrative
body depends upon the kind of function to be exercised, or
upon the nature of the question and of theinquiry needed
to solve it. "GreatNorthern Ry. Co. v. Merchants Elevator Co., 259 U. S.285,.291., The character of tle party
plaintiff, whether. private or governmental, is irrelevant.
Cf. UnitedStates v. Pacific.&Arctic Co., 228-U. S. 87.
If the Shipping Act repealed or made inapplicable the
remedial provisions of. the Sherman and Clayton Acts,
then the situation from the point of view of remedy becomes what it was before either of those Acts was passed;
and at that stage a private party could obtain an injunction against a group of ocean carriers giving preferential
treatment in consideration of exclusive patronage.
Menacho v. Ward, 27 Fed. 529.
Notwithstanding the jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission, the courts have repeatedly held that
state and federal common law and statutory provisions
apply to and will be enforced by the courts against illegal
practices, at the instance of private parties. Pennsylvania
R. Co. v. PuritanCoal Co., 237 U. S. 121, 134; Louisville
& N. R. Co. v. Cook Brewing Co., 223 U. S. 7Q; Great
Northern Ry. Co. v. Merchants Elevator Co., 259 U. S.
285; PennsylvaniaR. Co. v. Sonman Coal Co., 242 U. S.
120; Pennsylvania R. Co. v. International Coal Co., 230
IT. S. 184; ChinaFireIns. Co. v. Davis, 50 F. (2d) 389.
The court has jurisdiction without preliminary resort
to the regulatory body in the absence of a question of an
administrative nature or of complex facts calling for ex-

478

C)CTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U. S.

perience in technical matters. Texas & Pac. Ry. Co. v.
Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426; Great Northern
Ry. Co. v. Merchants Elevator Co., 259 U. S. 285; Texas
& Pac. Ry. Co. v. Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co., 270 U. S. 266.
The questions in this case are not of an administrative
character and their adjudication does not require reference either to any standard of factual reasonableness or
to any standard of the welfare of the industry. Cf.
Menacho v. Ward, 25 Fed. 529; United States v. Pacific &
Arctic Co., 228 U. S. 87; United States v. Great Lakes
Towing Co., 208 Fed. 733; Thomsen v. Cayser, 243 U. S.
66. Eden Mining Co. v. Bluefields Fruit & S. S. Co.,
1 U. S. S. B. 41.
The agreements and understandings complained of
could not legally be approved by the Shipping Board.
Refusal to carry at a given rate except in consideration
of exclusive patronage has already been held unlawful by
the Board.
The acts complained of are unlawful by the express
terms of the Shipping Act itself.
Mr. Roscoe H. Hupper, with whom Mr. Charles C.
Burlinghamwas on the brief, for respondents,
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The United States Navigation Company is a corporation operating ships in foreign commerce. it brought
this suit in the federal district court for the southern dis-

trict of New York to enjoin respondents from continuing
an alleged combination and conspiracy in violation of the
Sherman Antitrust Act, c. 647, 26 Stat. 209, Title 15,
U. S. C., §§ 1-7, and of the ClaSrton Act, c. 323, 38 Stat.
730, Title 15, -U. S. C., §§ 12-27. The district court
granted a motion to dismiss the amended bill on the
ground, principally, that the matters complained of were

U. S. NAV. CO. v. CUNARD S. S. CO.
474

479"

Opinion of the Court:

within the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States Shipping Board, under the Shipping Act of 1916, c. 451, 39
Stat. 728, Title 46, U. S. C., §§ 801-842, as amended by
the Merchant Marine Act of 1920, c. 250, 41 Stat. 988.
39 F., (2d) 204. The circuit court of appeals affirmed.
50 F. (2d) 83.
For present purposes, the substance of the pertinent
allegations of the bill may be stated as follows: The petitioner, during the time mentioned in the bill, operated
steamships for the carriage of general cargo between the
port of New York and specified foreign ports. The respondents are corporations also engaged in foreign commerce between the United *States and specified foreign
countries, 'carrying ninety-five per cent. of the general
cargo trade from North Atlantic ports in the United States
to the ports of Great Britain and Ireland. These corporations and the petitioner are the only lines maintaining
general cargo services in that trade. Respondents have
entered into and are engaged in a combination and conspiracy to restrain the foreign trade and commerce of the
United States in respect of the carriage of general cargo
from the United States to the foreign ports named, with
the object and purpose of driving the petitioner aurd all
others not parties to the combination out of, and of monopolizing, such trade and commerce. The conspiracy
involves the establishmeit of a general tariff rate and a
lower contract rate, the latter to be niade available only
to shippers who agree to confine their shipments to the
lines of respondents. The differentials thus created between the two rates are not predicated upon volume of
traffic or frequency or regularity of shipment, but are
purely arbitrary and wholly disproportionate to any difV
ference in service rendered, the sole consideration being
their effect as a coercive measure. The tariff rate in numerous instances is as much as one hundred per cent.
higher than the contract rate. The disproportionately

480

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U.S.

wide spread of these differentials is wholly arbitrary and
unreasonable. The respondents have put into effect what
is called a scheme of joint exclusive patronage contracts,
by which shippers are required to agree to ship exclusively
by their lines, and to refrain from offering any shipments
to petitioner. Unless they so agree, the shippers are
forced to pay the far higher general tariff rates. This
plan is resorted to for the purpose. of coercing shippers .to
-deal exclusively with respondents and refrain from shipping by the vessels of petitioner, and thus exclude it entirely from the carrying trade between the United States
and Great Britain.
Other means to accomplish -the same end are alleged,
such as, giving rebates; spreading false rumors 'and. falsely
stating that petitoner is about to discontinue its service;
making use.of their combined economic bargaining power
to coerce various shippers, who are also, producers of
commodities used in large quantities by respondents, to
enter into joint exclusive contracts with them; and threatening to blacklist forwarders and refuse to pay them joint
brokerage fees unless they discontinue making, or advising shippers to make, shipments in petitioner's ships.
Certain overt acts are alleged as being in furtherance of
the combination, conspiracy, and attempt to monopolize.
A more detailed analysis of the amended bill, is embodied
in the statement of the case which precedes the opinion
of the court below.
It may be conceded that, looking alone to the Sherman
Antitrust Act, the bill states a cause of action under §§ 1
and 2 of that act, and, consequently, furnishes ground for
an injunction under § 16 of the -Clayton Act, unless the
Shipping Act stands in the way; and this was the view
of both courts below.
The Shipping Act is a comprehensive measure bearing
a relation to common carriers by water substantially the
same as that borne by the Interstate Commerce At to

U. S. NAV. CO. v. CUNAPD S. S. CO.
474

481

Opinion of the Court.

interstate common carriers .by land. When the Shipping
Act was passed, the Interstate Commerce Act ha d been
in force in its original form or in amended forms for more
than a generation. Its provisions had been applied to a
great variety of situations, and had been judicially construed in a large fiumber and variety of cases. The ruie
had become settled, that questions essentially of fact and
those involving the exercise of administrative discretion,
which were within the jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission, were primarily within its exclusive
jurisdiction, and, with certain exceptions not applicable.
here, that-a remedy must be sought from the commission before the jurisdiction of the courts could be invoked. In this situation the -Shipping Act was passed.
In its general scope and purpose, as well as in its terms,
that act closely parallels the Interstate Commerce Act;
and we cannot escape the conclusion that Congress intended that the two acts, each in its own field, should
have like interpretation, application and effect. It follows that the settled construction in respect of the earlier
act must be applied'to the later one, unless, in particular
instances, there be something peculiar in the question under consideration, or dissimilarity in the terms of the act
relating thereto, requiring a different conclusion.
The decisions of this court which deal with the subject
under the Interstate Commerce Act are fully reviewed
by the court below in an able and carefully drawn opinion.
It is enough for us here to refer to a few illustrative cases.
In Great NorthernRy. Co. v. MerchantsElevator Co.. 259
U. S. 285, 291, the general rule and an exception to it are
considered. The immediate question there at issue concerned merely the legal construction of an interstate tariff,
no question of fact, either as an aid to the construction, or
in any other respect, and no question of administrative discretion, being involved. It was held .that the issue was
within the jurisdiction of the courts without preliminar85912°-32-31

482

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U.S.

resort to the commission. ' But the distinction between
that case and one Where preliminary resort to the commission is necessary was definitely stated. Such resort,
it Was said, must be-had where a rate, rule or practice is
attacked as unreasolnable or as unjustly discriminatory,
and also where it is necessary, in the construction of a
tariff, to determine upon evidence the peculiar meaning of
words or the existence of incidents alleged to be attached
by usage to the transaction. In all such cases the uniformity which it is the purpose of the Commerce Act to secure
could not be obtained without a preliminary determination by the commission. Preliminary resort to the commission "is required because the enquiry is -essentially
one of fact and of discretion in technical matters; and
uniformity can be secured only if its determination is left
to the Commission. Moreover, that determination is
reached or.dinarily upon voluminous and conflicting evidence, for the adequate appreciation of which acquaint.ance with many intricate facts of transportation is indispensable; and such acquaintance is commonly to be
found only in a body of experts. But what construction
shall be given to a railroad tariff presents ordinarily a
question of law which does not differ in character from
those presented when the construction of any other document is in dispute."
In Board v. Great Northern Ry. Co., 281 U. S. 412,
an interlocutory injunction had been granted by a federal
district court of three judges in a suit assailing intrastate
railroad rates as working undue and unreasonable discrimination against interstate commerce. The order
granting the injunction was reversed on the ground that
the district court was without power to entertain the suit
in advance of a determination of the question by. the
Interstate Commerce Commission.
"The inquiry," we said (pp. 421-422), " would necessarily relate to technical and intricate matters of fact,

U. S. NAV. CO. v. CUNARD S. S. CO.
474,

483

Opinion of th$ Court.

and the solution of the question would demand the exercise of sound administrative discretion. The accomplishment of the purpose of Congress could not be had without the comprehensive study of an expert body continuously, employed in administrative supervision. Only
through the action of such a body could there be secured
the uniformity of ruling upon which appropriate protection from unreasonable exactions and unjust discriminations must depend."
So the rule has been applied where recovery was sought
by a shipper for unreasonable and excessive freight. rates
not found to be unreasonable by the commission, Texas
& Pac.Ry. Co. v. AbIlene Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426;
.where the question was as to the reasonableness of the
carrier's practice in distributing cars, Midlan4 Valley R.
Co. v. Barkley, 276 U. S. 482; where the reasonableness
of a particular practice of routing was involved, Northern
Pacific Ry. Co. v. Solum, 247 U. S. 477, 483; where the
continuance of service on an industrial track was assailed as unduly discriminatory, Western & Atlantic R.
Co. v. Public Service Comm., 267 U. S. 493, 497; and
where an action was brought under § 7 of the Antitrust
Act, based upon an alleged conspiracy among carriers to
fix rates, Keogh v. Chicago,& N. W. Ry. Co., 260 U. S.
156. In, the case last cited it was pointed out (p. 163)
that if a shipper were permitted to recover under the Antitrust Act, the amount recovered might, like a rebate,
operate to give him a preference over his trade competitors. "Uniform treatment would not result, even if all
sued, unless the highly improbable'happened, and the several juries and courts gave to each the same measure of
relief."
That the Shipping Act covers the dominant facts alleged in the present case as constituting a violation of the
Antitrust Act is clear. Section 14 prohibits retaliation by
a common carrier by water against any shipper by resort

484

OCTOBER TERM, 1931..
Opinion of the Court.

284 U. S.

to discrnimnating or unfair methods because the shipper
has patronized another carrier; and § 14a confers power
upon the board to determine the question. The latter
section also confers similar power on the board in respect
of any combination, agreement or understanding involving transportation of passengers or property between foreign ports, deferred rebates, or any other unfair practice
designated in § 14. Section 16 makes it unlawful for any
such carrier, alone or in conjunction with another, to
give any undue or unreasonable preference or advantage
to any particular person, locality or. description of traffic,
or to subject any-such person, locality or traffic to undue
or-unreasonable prejudice or disadvantage in any respect,
or to allow any person to obtain transportation for property at less than the regular rates by any unjust or unfair
device or means. Section 17 prohibits any charge or rate
unjustly discriminatory between shippers or ports, etc.,
and gives the board authority to alter the same to the
extent necessary to correct the discrimination or prejudice, and to order the carrier to discontinue. Section 22
authorizes any person to fie with the board a complaint,
setting forth any violation of the act by a common carrier
by water, and asking reparation for the injury. Copy of
the complaint is to be furnished to the carrier, who is required to satisfy the complaint or answer it in writing.
If not satisfied, the board is authorized to investigate the
ease and make such order as it deems proper, and the
board may direct payment of full reparation for the injury
caused by such violation. The board is also authorized,
upon its own motion, except as to orders for the payment
of money, to investigate any violation of the act. We
need not pursue the analysis further. These and other
provisions of the Shipping Act clearly exhibit the close
parallelism between that act and its prototype, the Interstate Commerce Act, aud the applicability to both of like
principles of construction and administration.

U. S. NAV. CO. v. CUNARD S. S. CO.
474

Opinion of the Court.

The act is restrictive in its operation upon some of the
activities of common carriers by water, and permissive
in respect of others. Their business involves questions
of an exceptional character, the solution of which may
call for the exercise of a high degree of expert and technical knowledge. Whether a given agreement among
such carriers should be held to contravene the act may
depend upon a consideration of economic relations, of
facts peculiar to the business or its history, of competitive
conditions in respect of the shipping of foreign countries,
and of other relevant circumstances, generally unfamiliar
to a judicial tribunal, but well understood by an administrative body especially trained and experienced in the
intricate and technical facts and usages of the shipping
trade; and with which that body, consequently, is better able to deal. Compare Chicago Board of Trade v.
United States, 246 U. S. 231, 238; United States v. Hamburgh-AmericanS. S. Line, 216 Fed. 971.
A comparison of the enumeration of wrongs charged
in the bill with the provisions of the sections of the Shipping Act above outlined conclusively shows, without
going into detail, that the allegations either constitute
direct and basic charges of violations of these provisions
or are so interrelated with such charges as to be in effect
a component part of them; and the remedy is that afforded by the Shipping Act, which to that extent supersedes the antitrust laws. Compare Keogh v. Chicago &
N. W. Ry. Co., supra, at p. 162. The matter, therefore,
is within the exclusive preliminary jurisdiction of the
Shipping Board. The scope and evident purpose of the
Shipping Act, as in the case of the Interstate Commerce
Act, are demonstrative of this conclusion. Indeed, if there
be a difference, the conclusion as to the first named act
rests upon stronger ground, since the decisions of this
court compelling a preliminary resort to the commission

486

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinibn of the Court.

284 U. S.

were made in the face of a clause in § 22 of the Interstate
Commerce Act, that nothing therein contained should
in any way abridge or alter existing common law or statutory remedies, -but that the provisions of the act were
in addition to such remedies (Mitchell Coal Co. v. Penn-sylvania R. Co., 230 U. S. 247, 256); a clause that finds
no counterpart in the Shipping Act.
There is nothing in § 15 of the Shipping Act which
militates against the foregoing views. That section requires that agreements between carriers, or others subject to the act, in respect of a number of enumerated matters, or "in any manner providing for an exclusive; preferential, or coperative working arrangement," shall be
filed immediately with the board; and that the term
"agreement" shall include understandings, conferences,
and other arrangements. -Thereupon,- the board is authorized to disapprove, cancel or modify any such agreement, "whether or not previously approve4 by it," -which
it finds to be unjustly discriminatory or unfair as between
carriers, shippers, etc.; "or to operate to the detriment of
the commerce of the United States, or to be in violation
of this Act." " But a failure to file such an agreement with
the board will not afford ground for an injunction under
§ 16 of the ClaytonAct at the. suit of private parties-whatever, in that event, may-be the rights of the government-since the maintenance of such a suit,, being predicated upon a violation of the'antitrust laws, depends upon
the right to seek a remedy-under those laws, a right which,as we have seen, does not here exist. If there be a failure to file an' agreement as required by § 15, the board,
as in the case of other violations of the act, is fully authorized by § 22, supra, to afford relief upon complaint or
typon its own motion. Its orders, in that respect, as in
other respects, are then, under § 31, for the first time, open
70 a judicial proceeding to enforce, suspend or set them
.. ide in accordance, generally, with the rtles and limita-

U. S. NAV. CO. v. CUNARD S. S. CO.
474

Opinion of the Court.

tions announced by this court in respect of like orders
made by the Interstate Commerce Commission.
It is said that the agreement referred to in the bill of'
complaint cannot legally be approved. But this is by no
means clear. In the first place, while the allegations of
the bill must be taken as true upon the motion to dismiss,
they still are subject to challenge by pleading and proof if.
the motion be denied. - .We cannot assume that, in a proceeding before the board in which the whole case would.
be open, similar allegations will not be denied or met by
countervailing affirmative averments. In any- event, it
reasonably cannot be thought that Congress intended t6
strip the board of its primary original jurisdiction to consider such an agreement and "disapprove, cancel, or modify" it, because of a failure of the contracting parties to
file it as § 15 requires. A contention to that effect' is
clearly out of harmony with the fundamental purposes of
the act andspecifically with the provision of § 22 authorizing the board to investigate any violation of the act
upon complaint or upon its own motion and make such
order as it deems proper. And whatever may be the form
of the agreement, and whether it be lawful or unlawful
upon its face, Congress undoubtedly intended that the
board should possess the authority primarily to hear and
adjudge the matter. For the courts to take jurisdiction
in advance of such hearing and determination would be
to usurp that authority. Moreover, having regard to the
peculiar nature of ocean traffic, it is not impossible that,
although an agreement be apparently bad on its face, it
properly might, upon a full consideration of all the attending circumstances, be approved or allowed to stand
with modifications.
Petitioner contends that the Shipping Board has already determined that an agreement similar to the one
here involved is unlawful under the Shipping Act, Eden
Mining Co. v. Bluefields Fruit & S. S. Co., 1 U. S. S. B. 41,

488

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinibn of the Court.

284U. S.

and, therefore, that 'the courts may take jurisdiction of
the case without further preliminary resort to the board.
In support of this contention we are referred to Mitchell
Coal Co. v. PennsylvaniaR. Co., supra, (see p. 257), and
. National Pole Co. v. Chicago & N. W. Ry. Co., 211 Fed.
65, 72.- Without stopping to consider the general principle thus invoked, it is enough to say that the Eden case
did not involve this agreement or these parties, and it
was decided- after a full hearing upon issue joined., Here
we have only the allegations of the bill before us. If there
be a formal written agreement, it is not set out; and it is
pleaded, apparently; only according to the pleader's conception of its legal effect. There is at present no answer,
and the question before us arises upon a motion to dismiss, which admits the facts, so far as they are well
pleaded,. only for the sake of the argument. What might
be disclosed by-an answer and upon a hearing, we do not
know and are not permitted to conjecture. It may be, for
'aught that now appears, that in an original proceeding
;before the board, the .allegations upon which petitioner
relies may not be sustained, or may be so qualified as to
render the Edeni decision entirely inapplicable. -Whatever might be the rule to be applied under other circumstances, we are of opinion that in the state of the present
record the ordinary primary jurisdiction of the board has
not been superseded by its decision in the Eden case.
To-hold otherwise would be to create the doubtful, and
perhaps dangerous, precedent that a decision of the board
in respect of one agreement definitely establishes that the
rule of that decision must, without more, be applied to
all other agreements alleged to be of a similar character,
although it may turn out upon investigation that the
allegations are not warranted, or the facts and circumstances of and surrounding the transaction are so wholly
different as to afford ground for a different -result.,
Decree affir7ed.

