BLOCKBURGER v. UNITED STATES.
296

Syllabus.

was no such close or direct relation to interstate transpor-.
tation in the taking of the coal to the coal chutes. This
was nothing more than the putting of the coal supply
in a convenient place from which it could be taken as
required for use."
We are unable to reconcile this decision with the rule
deducible from the Collins and Sgary cases, and-it becomes
our duty to determine which is authoritative. From a
reading of the opinion in the Collins case, it is apparent
that the test of the Shanks case was not followed (see
p. 85), the words "interstate commere" being inadvertently substituted for the words "interstate transportation" The Szary case is subject to the same criticism,
since it simply followed the Collins case. Both cases are
out of harmony with the general current of the decisions
of this court since the Shanks case, Chicago & North
Western R21. Co. v. Bolls, ante, p. 74, and they are now
definitely overruled. The Harringtoncase furnishes the
correct rule, and, applying it, the judgnent below must be
Afirmed.

BLOCKBURGER v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI To THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No: 374: "Argued November 24, 1931.-Decided January 4 - 1932.

1. Two sales- of morphine not in or from the original stamped package, the second having been initiated after the first was complete,
held separate and distinct offenses under § 1 of the Narcotics Act,
although buyer and seller were the same in both cases and but
little time elapsed between the end of the one transaction and the
beginning of the other. P. 301.
2. Section 1 of the Narcotics Act, forbidding sale except in or from
the original stanijed package, ahd § 2, forbidding sale not in pur-

.uance of a written order of the person to whom the drug is sold,
ereate two distinct offenses, and both are committed by a single

300

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

24 U.S."

sale not in or from the original stamped package and without a
written order. P. 303.
3. Where the same act or transaction constitutes a violation of two
distinct statutory provisions, the test to be applied to determine
whether there arA two offenses or only one, is whether each provision requires proof of a fact which the other does not. P. 304.
any person who violates or fails
4. The penal section of the Act, -f
to coinply, with any of the requirements of this act" shall be
punished, etc., means that each offense is subject to the penalty
prescribed. P. 305.
50 F. (2d) 795, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, post, p. 607, to review a judgment affirming
a sentence under the Narcotics Act.

Mr. Harold J. Bandy,was on the brief for petitioner.
Mr. Claude R. Branch, with whom Solicitor General
Thatcher, Assistant Attorney General Dodds, and Mr.
HarryS. Ridgely were on the brief, for the United States.
. iR.. JUsTIcE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The petitioner was charged with violating provisions of
the Harrison Narcotic Act: c. 1, § 1, 38 Stat. 785, as
amended by c. 18, § 1006, 40 Stat. 1057, 1131, (U. S. C.,
Title 26, § 692);' and c. 1, § 2, 38 Stat. 785, 786, as
amended, (U. S. C., Title 26, § 696).2 The indictment
"It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase, sell, dispense,
or distribute any of the aforesaid drugs [opium and other narcotics]
except in the criginal stamped package or from the original stamped
package; and the absence of appropriate tax-paid stamps from any
of the aforesaid drugs shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of
this section by the person in whose possession same may be
found; . . Y
"It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, barter, exchange, or
give away any of the dri~gs specified in section 691 of this title, except
in pursuance-of a -written order of the person to whom such article is
sold, barterea, exchanged, or given, on a form to be issued in blank
for that purpose by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue.:'

BLOCKBURGER v. UNITED STATES.
299

301

Opinion of the Court.

contained five counts. The jury returned a verdict against
petitioner upon the second, third and fifth counts only.
Each of these counts charged a sale of morphine hydrochloride to the same purchaser. The second count charged
a sale on a specified day of ten grains-of the drug not in or
from the original stamped package; the third count
'charged a sale on the following day of eight grains of the
drug not in or from the original stamped package; the
fifth count charged the latter sale also as having been
made not in pursuance of a written order of the purchaser
as required by the statute. The court sentenced petitioner
to five years imprisonment and a fine of $2,000 upon each
count, the terms of imprisonment to run consecutively;
and this judgment was affirmed on appeal. 50 F. (2d)
795.
The principal contentions here made by petitioner are
as follows: (1) that, upon the facts, the two. sales
charged in the second and' third counts as having been
made to the same person, constitute a single offense;
and (2) that the sale charged in the third count as.having been made not from the original stamped package,
and the same sale charged in the fifth count as having
been made not in pursiian6e of a written order of the
purchaser, constitute but one offense for which only a
single penalty lawfully may be imposed.
One. The sales charged in the second and third counts,
althoughmade to the same person, were distinct and
separate sales made at different times. It appears from
the evidence that shortly after delivery of the drug which
was the subject of the first sale, the purchaser paid for
an additional quantity, which was delivered the next
day. But the first sale had been consummated, and the
payment 'for the additional drug, however closely following, was the initiation of a separate and distinct sale
completed by its delivery.
The contention on behalf of petitioner is that these
-two sales, having been made to the same purchaser andi

302

OCTOBER TERMs 1931.
Opinion of the Cout.

284 U.S.

following each other with no substantial interval of time
between the delivery of the drug in the firstr transaction
and the payment for the second quantity sold, constitute
a single continuing offense. The contention is unsound.
The distinction between rthe transactions here involved
and an offense continuous in its character, is well settled,
as was pointed out b this court in the case of In re
Snow., 120 U. S. 274. There it was held that the offense
of cohabitiig with more than one woman, created by the
Act of March 22, 1882, c. 47, 22 Stat. 31, was a continuous offense, and was committed, in the sense of the statute, where ' there was a living or dwelling together as
husband and wife. The court- said (pp. 281, 286):
"It is,;inherently, a continuous offence, having duration; and not an offense consisting:of an isolated act.
"A distinction is laid down in adjudged cases and in
textwriters between an offence continuous in it§ character, like the .one at bar, ,and a case where the statute
is iimed at an offence that can be committed uno ictu."
The Narcotic Act does not create the offense of engaging
in the business of selling the forbidden -drugs,but penalizes
any sale'made in the. absence of either of ihe qualifying
.requirements set forth. Each of several successive sales
constitutes a distinct offense, however closely they may
follow each other. The distinction ptated by Mr. Wharton is that "when the impulse is single, but one indictment lies, no matter how long the action may continue.
If successive impulses are separately given, even though
all unite-in swelling a common stream of-action, scparatb
indictments fie.": Wharton's Criminal Law, 11th ed., § 34.
Or, as stated in note 3 to that section, "The test.is whether
the indiviu~al acts are prohibited, or the course of action
which they constitute. If the former, then each act is
punishable separately . . .* If the latter, there can be-but
onepenalty,"

BLOCKBURGER v. UNITED STATES.
299

303

Opinion.of the Court.

-Inthe present case, the first transaction, resulting in a
sale, had come to an end. The next sale was not the result of the original impulse, but of a fresh one-that is to
say, of a new bargain. The question is controlled, not by
the Snow case, bu~t by such cases as that of Ebeling v.
.Morgan, 237 U. S.625. There the accused was convicted
under several counts of a willful tearing, etc., of mail bags,
with intent to rob. The court (p. 628) stated the question to be, "whether one who, in the same transaction,
tears or cuts successively 'mailbags of Ithe United States
used in conveyance of the mails, with intent to 'rob or
steal any such mail, is guilty of a single offense or of 'additional offenses because of each successive cutting :with the
,crifninal intent charged." Answering this question, the
court, after quoting the statute, § 189, Criminal Code
(U. S.C., Title 18, § 312), said(p. 629):
"These words plainly indicate that it was the intention
of the lawmakers to protect each and every mail bag from
felonious iijury and mutilation. Whenever any.one mail
bag is thus torn, cut or injured, the offense is complete.
Although the transaction of cutting the. mail bags was in
a sense continuous, the complete statutory offense was
committed every time a mail bag was cut in the manner
described, with the intent charged. The offense as to each
separate bag was complete. when that bag was cut, irrespective of 4ny attack upon, or mutilation of, any other
See also In re Henry, 123:1:. S. 372, 374; In re De.Bara,
179 U. S. 316, 320; Baddersv. United States,240 U. S.,391,
394; Wilkes v. Dinsman, 7 How. 89, 127; United States v.,
.D'ai4herty, 269 U. S. 360; Queen v. Scott, 4 Best '& S.
(Q. B.) 368, 373.
Two. Section I of the Narcotic Act creates the offense
of selling any of 'the forbidden 'drugs' except in or from
the original stamped package; and § 2 creates the offense
of selling any of such drugsnot in pursuance of a written

304

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U.S.

order of the person to whom the drug is sold. Thus, upon
the face of the statute, two distinct offenscs are created.
Here there was but one sale, and the question is whether,
both sections being violated by the same act, the accused
committed two offenses or only one.
The statute is-not aimed at sales of the forbidden drugs
qua sales, a matter entirely beyond the.authority of Congress, but at sales of such drugs in violation of the requirements set forth in §§ 1 and 2, enacted as aids to
the enforcement of the stamp tax imposed-by the act.
See Alston v. United States, 274 U. S. 289, 294; Nigro v.
United States, 276 U. S. 332, 341, 345, 351.
Each of the offenses created requires proof of a different
element. The applicable rule is that where the same act
or transaction constitutes a'violation of two distinct statutory provisions, the test to be applied- to determine
whether there are two offenses or only one, is whether'
each provision requires proof of a.fact which the other
does not. Gaviees v. United States, 220 U. S. 338,
342, and authorities cited. In that case this court quioted
from and adopted the language of the Supreme Court
of Massachusetts in Morey v. Commonwealth, 108 Mass. 433: "A single act may be an offense against two statutes;- and if 6ach statute requires proof of an additional fact which the other does- not, an acquittal or
conviction ,under either statute does not exempt the defendant from prosecution and punishment under the
other." Compare Albrecht v. United 'States, 273 U. S.
1, 11-12, and cases there cited. Applying the test, we
must conclude that here, although both sections were
violated by the one sale, two offenses were committed.
The case of Batleriniv. Aderholt, 44 F. (2d) 352, is not
in harmony with these views and is disappro.red.
Three. It is not necessary to discuss the additional assignments of error in respect of cross-examination, admission of testimony, statements made by the district

DENTON v. YAZOO & M. V. R. CO.

305

Syllabus.

299

attorney to the jury, claimed to be prejudicial, and instructions of the court. These matters were properly
disposed of by the court below. Nor is there merit in
the contention that the language of the penal section of
the, Narcotic Act, -" any person who violates or fails to
comply with any of the requirements of this act" shall
be punished, etc., is to be construed as imposing a single
punishment for a violation of the distinct requirements
of §§ I and 2 when accomplished by one and the same
sale. The plain meaning of the provision is that each
offense is subject to the penalty prescribed; and if that
be too harsh, the remedy must be afforded by act of
Congress, not by judicial legislation under the. guise of
construction. Under the circumstances, so far as disclosed, it is' true that the imposition of the full penalty
of fine and imprisonment upon each count seems unduly
severe; but there may have been other facts and circumstances before the trial court properly influencing'theextent of the punishment. oIn any event, the matter was
one for that court, with whose judgment there is no warrant for interference on our part.
Judgment affirmed.
DENTON v. YAZOO & MISSISSIPPI 'VALLEY RAIL-

ROAD CO. ET AL.
'CERTIORARI

TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSISSIPPI.

No. 242. Argued December 11, 1931.-Decided January 4, 1932.
1. When one -person puts his servant at the disposal 'and under the
.control of another forthe performance of a particular service for
the latter, the servant, in respect of his acts in that service, is to
•be dealt with as the servant of the latter and not of the former.

P. 308.
2 Railroad companies are required by.statute to transport the mail
"in the manner, under the conditions, and With the service prescribed by the Postmaster' General," and one of his regulations
85912°-32-20

