LEWIS v. REYNOLDS.
279

Counsel for Parties.

The burden of uroof is upon them to show that they have
the right. Immigration Act of 1924, § 23, 43 Stat. 165;
Code, Title 8, § 221. By § 13, and the-regulations under
it, as remarked by the court belowi-a returning alien can
not enter unless.he has either.an immigration visa or a
return permit. The relators must show not only that
they ought to be admitted but that the United States,
by the only voice authorized to express its will, has said
so. Obviously it has not -done so, andtherefore the judgment mustbe affirmed.'
Judgment affirmed:
LEWISET AL., TRUSTEES; v. REYNOLDS, COLLEC-

TOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEAW FOR THE
TENTH -CIRCUIT.

No. 115. Argued December 8, 9, 1931.-Decided January 4, 1932.

In acting upon.a claim for refund based .upon the' disallowance of a
particular deduction. the Commissi6ner of .Internal Revenue has
-authority to reaudit the return.and to reject the claim on the basis
of the disallowance of another'leduction even though the statute
of limitations prevents him from making an additional assessment
for the year involved. P. 283.

48 P. (2d) 515, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, post p. 600, to rdview a decision, affirming
-a judgment in favor of the Collector in an action for a
refund of income taxes.

Mr. N. E. Cortell for petitioners.
Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, with whom
olicitor General Thacher, Messrs. Whitney North Sey-.
mour and Sewall-Key, and Miss Helen R. Carloss were on
the brief, fof respondent.

282

OCTOBER TERM, i931.
Opnon of the-Court.

MR.

JusTIcn McREYNiO-LS. -lelivered .the, opinion of

the Court.

-

284U.S,

.

.

Petitioners-sued the respondent Collectorin the UniiedStates District Couirt for "Wyoming, September 20, 1929,
to recover $7,297.16 aleged, to have been -wrohfully "
exacted as income. tax upon the 'estate"6f Co6er.
February'18, 1921, the adminqistrator filed a 'return for
the period Januaryj1to December 12, '1920, ]ihday qf
final, settlement. Aiiong othrs, "he rep6rteddeductions
for attorney's fees, $20,750, and inheritance taxes paid
to the State, $16,870. The amount of tax as indicated
.,by the return was paid.
November ,2, :1925, the Commissioner; having audited,
the return,_.as;llowe all-.deductions otceptAhe one for
attorney's fees and. assessed a deficiency of $7,297.16.
This sum:1 was" paid March 2i, 1926;' -and 0n-Ju1ly-27
1926, petitioners asked, that it.be 'refunded.
A letter from the Commissioner to petitioners, dated
-May 18, 1929, and introduced in evidence by them, stated
that the deduction of' $20,750 for attorney's fees had been
improperly allovwd: 'Re also -set "out a revised' 'compumhe deducted the-.state iiheiithnce taxes.
tation wherein
This -showed, ,iability greater than the toiall-sum*s there-,
tofore exacted. The Commissioner, further, said: 'f,
Since
the. correct computation. resilts in an, additional tax;as
indicated above which'is barred from assessment by the"
- the
statute bf liiltatiofns y6ur claim will'be, i'ejected" &o
next sc edule' to'be' apprb6ved'b?- th '.'oinmi-sioner. "
The trial court upheld the Comfnnissione's altion and
its judgment was
Paffimed
by .the Circuit-- Court of
*Appeals.
Counsel for petitioners. relies upon the five year. s atute
of limitations -(Rev Act, 1926,,-§ 277).'- He'maintains
Sec. 277.:(') .Weiat ,a provided-in, § '278 [iot here ini-,
*portant]... (3). The amount of incofae, excess-profits, and- war-

LEWIS v. REYNOLDS.
281

283

Opinion of the Court.

that the Commissioner lacked authority to redetermine
and reassess the tax after the statute had run.2
After referring to '§ 284, Revenue Act of 1926, 44 Stat.
66, and § 322, Revenue Act of 1928, 45 Stat. 861, the Circuit Court of Appeals said [48 F. (2d) 515, 516]"The 'above quoted provisiohs clearly limit refunds to
overpayments. It follows that the ultimate question presented for decision, upon a claim for refund, is whether
the taxpayer has overpaid his tax. This involves a redetermination of the entire tax liability. While no new
assessment can be made, after the bar of the statute has
fallen, the taxpayer, nevertheless, is not entitled to. a
refund unless he has overpaid his tax. The action to.
recover on a claim for refund is in the nature of an action
for money had and received, and it is incumbent upon the
claimant-to show that the United States has money which
belongs to him."
We agree with the conclusion reached by the courts
below.
While the statutes authorizing refunds do not specifically empower the Commissioner to. reaudit a return
whenever repayment is claimed, authority therefor is
necessarily implied. An overpayment must appear before refund is authorized. Although the statute of limitations may have barred the assessment and collection of
any'additional sum, it does not obliterate the right of the
United States to retain payments already received when
they do not exceed the amount which might have been
properly assessed and demanded.
profits takes imposed by . . .the Revenue Act of 1918, and by any
such Act as amended, shall be assessed within five years after the
return was filed, and no proceeding in court without assessment for
the collection of such taxes shall be begun after' the expiration of
such period."
The opinion is printed here as amended by an order of February
15, 1932, to be published in the last part of this volume.

284

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

284 U.S.

Borwit Teller & Co. v. United States, 283 U. S. 258,
"says nothing in conflict with the view which we now approve.

Affirmed..
DENVER & RIO GRANDE WESTERN RAILROAD
CO. ET AL. v. TERTE, JUDGE,
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME .COURT OF MISSOURI.

No.430.

Argued November 24, 1931.-Decided January 4, 1932.

1. A court of a State where a foreign railroad corporation is authorized to do business, owns and operates part of its lines, maintains
an office, arid has agents for the transaction of its -g6neral business,
has jurisdiction of a suit against the company in damages for personal injuries under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, brought
by a resident upon a cause of action which arose in another State"
when he was residing there. P. 287.
2. Jurisdiction in such case is not defeated by the fact that a second
railroad company, over which the court is without jurisdiction, is
named codefendant. Id.
3. A foreign railroad corpbration which is'not authorized to do business within the State, and does not own or operate any of its lines
within- the State, although it owns some property there and employs agents who solicit traffic, held not subject to the jurisdiction
of a court of that State in a suit in damages for personal injuries
under the Federal Employers' tiability Act, brought by a resident
upon a cause of action which arose in another State when he was
residing there, as otherwise an undue burden upon interstate commerce would result. Id.
4. The prbhibition .against burdening interstate commerce can not be
evaded merely by attaching the property of the foreign railroad
corporation within the State, nor may it be avoided by joining as
codefendant in the suit'a second railroad company over wltich the
court has jurisdiction. The burden aid expense which the carrier
must incur in order to make defense in a State where the accident
did not occur has no relation to the nature of the process used tobring it before the court. Id.
5. The fact that Witnesses for the plaintiff reside within the State,
thus bnabling him to try his cause- there with less inconvenience

