INSURANCE CO. v. GLIDDEN CO.
141

Syllabus.

A special plea in bar is appropriate where defendant
.claims former acquittal, former conviction or pardon,
2 Bishop New Criminal Procedure (2d ed.) §§'742,799, 805
et seq., but there iq no warrant for its use'to single out
for determination in advance of trial matters of defense.
either on questions of law or fact. That such a practice,
is inconsistent with prompt and effective administration
of the law and is likely to result in numerous hearings,
waste of courts'. time and unnecessary delays is well illustrated by the record in this case. The indictment was
returned January 23, 1930, the judgment before us was.
-entered more than a year later, and it seems certain that
more 'than two years will have elapsed after indictment
before the case ca.fbe reached -for trial>
Judgment reversed.
HARDWARE DEALERS MUTUAL FIRE INSUR-

ANCE CO. 'i. GLIDDEN CO. E AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF- MINNESOTA.

-No. 4. Argued October 16, 1931.-Decided November 23, 1931.
Minnesota, by.statute, requires all fire insurance companies licensed
for business in the State to use a prescribed form of standard policy
in which are lirovisions for determihing by arbitration the amount
of any loss (except total loss on buildings), when the parties fail
to agree upon it. Where one party declines to select an"apliraiser,
the other party may secure; upon due notice, a judicial appointment of an "umpire" to act with the appraiser selected by himself. The decision of this board, if not grossly excessive or inadequate, or procured by fraud, is conclusive as to tlfe 'amouit of the
loss, in an action on the award, but does not determine the judicial
question of liability.under the policy. Held:
1. That the enforcement of such an award against an insurance
company, which had declined to join in the arbitration, does not
violate its rights under the due process and equal protection clauses
of the Fourteenth Amendmenvy although it be assumiied that the-

152

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Appellant.

284 U.S.

company's action in issuing the statutory policy, with the arbitration provisions, was not voluntary and that it was not estopped by
long acquiescence in the statute. P. 157.
2. Legislation otherwise within the scope of acknowledged state
power, not unreasonably or "arbitrarily exercised, cannot be condemned because, it curtails the power of the individual to contract.
P. 157.
3. The procedure by which rights may be enforced and wrongs
remedied is peculiarly a subject of state regulation and control.
In the exercise of that power and to satisfy a, public need, a State
may choose the remedy best adapted, in the legislative judgment,
to protect the interests concerned, provided its choice be not unreasonable or arbitrary, and the procedure it adopts satisfy the
constitutional requirements of reasonable notice and-opportunity to
be heard. P. 158.
4. A statute dealing with a subject within'the scope of legislative
power is presumed to be constitutional. Id..
5. The Court notices judicially that an arbitration' clause has
long been voluntarily inserted byinsurers in fire policies; that the
amount of loss is a fruitful and often the only subject of controversy between insured and insurer; that speedy determination of
the policy liability such as may be secured by arbitration of this
issue is a matter of wide concern; that in the appraisal of the loss
by arbitration, expert knowledge and prompt inspection of the
damaged property may be availed of to an extent not ordinarily
possible in the course of the more deliberate processes of a judicial
proceeding. P. 159.
181 Minn. 518; 233 N. W. 310, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment sustaining a recovery from an
insurance company in an action on an award fixing the
amount of a loss by fire.
Mr.Mortimer H. Boutelle, with whom Mr. Nathan H.
Chase was on the brief, for appellant.
Purely superficial considerations may suggest that the
general welfare is subserved by some form of compulsory'
process requiring the prompt adjustment of insurance
losses. The same might be said with equal force of relatively large classes of obligations arising in different
branches of business. Claims for personal injury and

INSURANCE CO. v. GLIDDEN CO.
151

Argument -for Appellant.

property losses in cases of common carriers are sufficiently
illustrative.
,
In one form or another, legislative efforts have been
exerted in this.direction; but with the exception -of two
early state cases, viz.: Graves v. Northern Pac. Ry. Co.,
5 Mont. 566, and Wadsworth v. Union Pac. Ry. Co., 18
Colo. 600, no instance has been called to our attention and
no precedent has been. cited in which a scheme of compulsory arbitration has been prescribed.
In St. Louis Ry. Co. v. Williams, 49 Ark. 492, the
statute differed from those in the cases last indicated in
providing that, if arbitration of the claim were refused
after demand, the claimant should be'entitled to recover
his attorney's fees in the event of suit. The statute was
held unconstitutional.
Various expedients have been resorted to by the legislatures of different States to avoid delays in the settlement
of claims against common carriers by the imposition of
penalties. These cases are fully reviewed in Chicago &
Northwestern Ry. Co. v. Nye Schneider Fowler Co., 260
U. S. 36, in which the limitations of the legislative authority are expounded.
It is unnecessary to consider the broader phases of legislation ostensibly directed at the compulsory arbitration
of controversies. That no such power exists is settled.
Wolff Co. v. Industrial Court, 262 U. S. 522; Dorchy v.
Kansas, 264 U. S. 286.
It is, of course, admitted that the business of insurance
is affected with a public interest and therefore subject to
state regulation in. the exercise of the State's legitimate
power of police. Northwestern Ins. Co. v. Riggs, 203 U. S.
243; German Alliance Ins. Co. v. Kansas, 233 U. S. 389;
NationalIns. Co. v. Wanberg, 260 U. S. 71.
The authorities are quite fully reviewed in the case last
cited. In each instance where the exercise of the power
has been sustained, with the exception of certain of the

154

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
284 U.S.

Argument, for Appellant.

'6aHier authorities in which it was erroneously predicated
of the unlimited control over foreign corporations, .it has
been directed at the correction of some evil and its justi-"
fication postulated for the public welfare.
The statute with which we are here concerned cannot
be assigned to the class thus indicated. There is a broad
distinction between prescribing the -orm or terms of a
contract and prescribing the methods by Which the obligation of such contract may be enforced. A similar distinction may be made b.etween the class of cases in which
limitations on the effect of applications for insurance have
been sustained and the right of interposing certain
defenses denied.
It will not do to ascribe a system' of compulsory arbitration, committed to the jurisdiction of an extir-judicial
tribunal, to the domain of remedial law. 'The latter obviously has reference to instances of judicial procedur6.
The system.with which we are-here concerned, on the contrary, is wholly foreigii to anything pertaining to judicial
procedure. No principle has been suggested and none
. occurs that justifies assigning denial of right of recourse
to the courts, respecting an ordinary contractual obligation, to the field or domain' of police power. The segregation of a single class of business of ordinaf.S commercial
character from all other classes, with the impposition on the
former of conditions denying the right of judicial redress
accorded the latter, presents' a discrimination which-con-.
traenes both the dueprocess and equal protection provisions of the fundamental law. Gulf, C. & F. R. Co. v.
Ellis, 165 U. S. 150:.
As applied to appellant. the exaction of compliance with
the statutory condition' was tantamount to !he require-'
ment of the surrender of a constitutional right as the condition of the privilege of doing business within the State.
Terralv. Burke Construction Co., 257 U. S. 529; Doyle v.
Continental Ins. Co., 94 U. S. 535; Security Mutual Life
,9.

INSURANCE CO. v. GLIDDEN CO.
151

Opinion of the Court.

Ins. Co. v. Prewitt,202 U. S. 246; Southern Pacific Co. v.
Denton, 146 U. S. 202, 207; Frostv. Railroad Commission,
271 U. S. 583; HanoverIns. Co. v. Harding,272 U. S. 494 ;:
United States v. Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co., 282 U. S.
311.
Messrs. Homer C. Fulton and Eugene M. O'Neill, with
whom Messrs. Arthur E. Nelson and Edward L. Boyle
were on the brief., for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This case is here on appeal, § 237a of the Judicial Code,
from a judgment of the Supreme Court of Minnesota, upholding the constitutionality of the arbitration provisions
of the standard fire insurance policy prescribed by Minnesota statutes. 181 Minn. 518; 233 N. W. 310.
Appellant, a Wisconsin corporation licensed to carry
on the business of writing fire insurance in Minnesota,
issued, within the state, its policy insuring appellees'
assignor against loss, by fire, of personal property located
there. The policy was in standard form, the use of which
is enjoined by statutes of Minnesota on all fire insurance
companies licensed to do business in. the state. Mason's
Minn. Stat. 1927, §§ 3314, 3366, 3512, 3515, 3711. Failure to comply with the command of the statute is ground
for revocation of the license to do business, § 3550, and
wilful violation of it by any company or agent is made a
criminal offense, punishable by fine or imprisonment.
§§ 3515, 9923.
A fire loss having occurred, the insured appointed an
arbitrator and demanded of app6llant that the amount
be determined by arbitration as provided by the policy.'
In case of loss, except
'Mason's Minn. Stat. 1927, § 3512. "...
in case of total loss on buildings, unider this policy and a failure of
the parties to agree as to the amount of the loss, it is mutually
agreed that the amount of such loss shall, as above provided, be

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

-

284 U.S.

The appellant having refused to participate in the arbitration, the insured, in accordance with the arbitration
clause, procured the appointment of an umpire to act
with the arbitrator designated by the'insured. The arbitrator and umpire thus selected proceeded to determine
the amount of the loss and made their award accordingly.
In the present suit, brought to recover the amount of
the award, the appellant. set up b3 way of defense, the
single point relied on here, that so much of the statutes of
Minnesota.,as requires the use by appellant of the "arbitration provisions of-the standard policy infringes the due
process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth
Amendment. In rejecting this contention and in sustaining:a recovery of the amount of the award, the Supreme
Court of Minnesota, consistently with its earlier decisions,
ruled that the authority of the arbitrators did not extend
to a determination of the liability under the policy, which
ascertained by two competent,' disinterested and impartial appraisers
who shall be residents of this state, the insured and this company
each selecting one within fifteen days after a statement of such logs
has been rendered to the company, as herein provided, and in ease
either party fail to select an appraiser within such time, the other
appraiser and the umpire selected, as herein provided, may act as a
board of appraisers, and whAtever award, they shall find shalb e as
binding as though the two appraisers had been chosen; and the.two
so chosen shall first select a competenti disinterested and impartial
umpire; provided, that if after five ays the two appraisers cannot
agree on such an umpire, the presiding judge of the district court of
the county wherein the loss occurs may appoint such an umpire
upon applicati6n of eithet party in -writing, by giving five days'
notice thereof in writing to the other party. Uiless within fifteen
days after a statement of-such loss has been rendered to the company, either party, the assured or the company, shall have notified
the other in writing that such party demands an appraisal, suchright to an appraisal shall be waived; the appraisers together shall
then estimate and appraise the loss, stating separately sound value
and damage, and, failing to agree, shall submit their differences to
the umpire; and the award in writing of any two shall determine
the amount of the loss; . .."

INSURANCE CO. v GLIDDEN CO.
151

157

Opinion of the Court.'

was -a judicial 'question, reserved to the courts, 'but that'
their decision as to 'the amiount of the loss is conclusive
upon the parties unless grossly excessive'or inadequate, or
procured by fraud. See Glidden Co. v. Retail Hardware
Mut. Filre Ins. Co., 181 Minn. 518, 521, 522; 233 N. W.
310; Abramowitz v. Continental Ins. Co., 170 Minn. 215;
212 N. W. 449; Harrington v. Agricultural Ins. Co., 179
Minn. 510; 229 N. W. 792.
This type of arbitration clause has long been commonly
used in fire insurance policies, both in Minnesola and
elsewhere; and, when voluntarily placed in the insurance
contract, compliance with 'its provisions'has been held to
be a condition precedent'-to an action: on the policy.
Gasser v. Sun Fire Office, 42 Minn. 315; 44 N. W. 252;
Hamiltonv,Liverpool,.London & Globe Ins. Co., 136 U. S.
242; Scott: v. Avo y, 5 House of Lords 811,- 854; see Red
Cross Line v. Atantic Frzit Co., 264 U. S. 109, 121.
Appellees insist that the use of the clause here was voluntary, since the appellant was not compelled to write
the policy, and that in any cas appellant, by long acquiescence in the statute; is estopped to challenge, after the
loss, the right of the insured to rely .upon it. Without
stopping to examine these contentions, we assume that
appellant's freedom of contract was restricted by operation of the statute and'pass directly to the question decided by the state' court, whether the Fourteenth
Amendment precludes the exercise of such compulsion
by the legislative power.
The right to make contracts embraced in the c6ncept
of liberty guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment is
not unlimited. Liberty implies only freedom from arbitrary restraint, not immunity from reasonable regulations
and prohibitions imposed in.
the interests of' the community. Chicago, Burlington QuincY R. Co. v. McGuire,
219 U.,S. 549, 567. ,Hence; legislatlon otherwise'within
the scope .ofaknowledged state power, not unreasonably

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U.S.

or arbitrarily exercised, cannot be condemned because it
curtails the power of the individual to contract. McLean
v. Arkansas, 211 U. S. 539; Schmidinger v. Chicago, 226
U. S. 578; German Alliance Insurance Co. v. Lewis, 233
U. S. 389; Erie R. Co. v. Willians, 233 U. S. 685; Keokee
Cons. Coke Co. v. Taylor, 234 U. S. 224.
The present statute substitutes a determination by arbitration for trial in court of the single issue of the
amount of loss suffered under a fire insurance policy. As
appellant's objection to it is directed specifically to the
power of the state to substitute the one remedy for the
other, rather than to the constitutionality of the particular
procedure prescribed or followed before the arbitrators,
it suffices to say that the procedure by which rights may
be enforced and wrongs remedied is peculiarly a subject
of state regulation and control. The Fourteenth Amendment neither implies that all trials must be by jury, nor
guarantees any particular form or method of state procedure. See Missouri ex rel. Hurwitz v. North, 271 U. S.
40. In the exercise of that power and to satisfy a public
need, a state may choose the remedy best adapted, in the
legislative judgment, to protect the interests concerned,
provided its choice is not unreasonable or arbitrary, and
the procedure it adopts satisfies the constitutional requirements of reasonable notice and opportunity to be heard.
The record and briefs present no facts disclosing the
reasons for the enactment of the present legislation or the
effects of its operation, but as it deals with a subject
within the scope of the legislative power, the presumption
of constitutionality is to be indulged. O'Gorman &
Young, Inc., v. HartfordFire Ins. Co., 282 U. S.. 251; see
Standard Oil Co. v. Marysville, 279 U. S.582, 584; Ohio
ex rel. Clarke v. Deckebach, 274 U. S. 392, 397. We cannot assume that the Minnesota legislature did not have
knowledge of conditions supporting its judgment thht the
legislation was in the public interest, and it is enough thgt,

INSURANCE CO. v. GLIDDEN CO.
151

159

Opinion of the Court.

when the statute is read in the light ot circumstances
generally liown to attend the recovery of fire insurance
losses, the possibility of a rational basis for the legislative
judgment is not excluded.
Without the aid of the presumption, we know that the
arbitration clause has long been voluntarily inserted'by
insurers in fire policies, and we share in the common
knowledge that the amount of loss is a fruitful and often
the only subject of controversy between insured and insurer; that speedy determination, of the Ipolicy liability
such as may be secured by arbitration of this issue is a
matter of wide concern, see.Fidelity Mut. Life Ass'. v.
Mettler, 185 U. S. 308;'.Farmers'& Merchants' Ins. Co. v.
Dobney, 189 U. S. 301; that in the appraisal of the loss by
arbitration, expert knowledge and prompt inspection of
the damaged property may be availed of to an extent not
ordinarily possible in the course of the more -deliberate
processes of a judicial proceeding. These considerations
are sufficient to support the exercise of the legislative
judgment in requiring a more summary method of determining the amount of the loss than that afforded by
traditional forms. Hence the requirement that disputes
of this type arising under this special class of insurance
contracts be submitted to arbitrators, cannot be deemed to
be a denial of either due process or equal protection of
the laws.
Granted, as we no* hold, that the state, in the present
circumstances, has power to prescribe a summary method
of ascertaining the amount of loss, the requirements of the
Fourteenth Amendment, so far as now invoked, are satisfied if the substitute remedy is substantial and efficient.
See Crane v. Hahlo, 258 U. S. 142, 147. We cannot say
that the determination by arbitrators, chosen as provided
by the present statute, of the single issue of the amount
of loss under a fire. insurance policy,. reserving all other
issues for trial in c6urt, does not afford such a remedy, or

160

OCTOBER TERM, 1931,
,

Syllabus.

284 U.S.

that in this resect it falls short of due process, more
than the provisions of state,,workmen's compensation
laws for establishing the amount, of compensation by a
commission, New York Central R. Co. v. White, 243 U S.
188, 207-208; Mountain Timber Co. v, Wahtngton, 243
U.*S. 219, 235, or, the appraisal by a commissioner of the
-value,of property taken or destroyed by the public, made
controlling by condemnation statutes, Dohany v Rogers,
281 U. S; 362, 369;,..Long Island Water !Supply- Co. v.
Brklyn, 166 U. S. 685,, 695; Crane v .Rahlo, supra,,p.
147, pr findings of fact by. boards-or commissions which,
by 'yarious statutes, are made, conclusive upon the courts
if supported by evidence, Tagg Bros. & Moorhead v
United States, 280 .-S. 420 ;,InterstateCommerce Comm.
v. Unzom PacificR. Co.,, 222 U S. 541, Virgznan Ry. Co.
y. United.States, 272. S. 658, 663, Silberschez v. United
States., 266 U., S., 221, Ma 7King Products.Ca. v ,Blair,
.
..
271 U. S..479.
Affirmed.
PHILLIPS, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE,
v. DIME TRUSTj& SAFE DEPOSIT CO., EXECUTOR.
CERqFICATE FROM THE CIRCUITCOURT OF APPiALS FOR THE
THIRD, CIRCUIT. -

No. 18.

Argued October 20, 1931.-Decided November 23, 1931.

1. The tax imposed under § 302 -of the Revenue. Act of 1924, determined by including in the gross estate of the decedent subject to
tax projeiiy held by the decedent and spouse'as tenants by the
entirety, and bank deposits in their joint names, is not a direct tax
,in violation' of the' constitutional requirement of apportionmen
(Art: I, § 2,,:cl. 3, and § 9, cl. 4). .Following Tyler v. United States,
..
281 U. S. 497. P. 165..
2. As to property held,upon tenancies by the entirety created after
the effective date of the 1924 Act, the validity of the tax is conceded..

Tyler v. Unitoa-States? 28i U. 8. 497., Id,

