UNITED STATES v, TRUDELL.

279

Counsel for Parties.

263

miralty and maritime cases there is no such limitation asto the mode of proceeding, and Congress may t4erefore in
cases of that description give either party:right of trial-by
jury, or modify the practice. of the couit in any other
respect that itdeems more conducive to the administration
-of justice."
In this instance a remedy is provided to fit, the agreement. The Congress has authorized the court to direct
the partie§ to proceed to arbitration in accordance with a
valid stipulation of a maritime. contract, and to enter a
decree upon the award found to .be regular and within the
terms of the agreement. We think that the objection on
constitutional grounds is without merit.Decree affirmed,

UNITED STATES

.EX REL. POLYMERIS E AL. v.
TRUDELL, IMMIGRATION INSPECTOR..

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPFALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 162.

Argued December 9, 193.-Decided January 4, 1932.

1. Under the Immigration Act of *May26, 1924, § 13. (a), (b), and

the .executive regulations pursuant thereo, an alien.who was lawfully domiciled in this country but who went abroad for a'temporary visit, cannot reenter unless he has either an immigration
visa or a return permit. P. 280.
2. In habeas corpus-to determine the right of an alien to enter the
* country, the burden of proof is upon the alien.

P. 281...

49 F, (2d) 730, dffirmed.

CERioRRI,.post, p. 601, to review a judgment reversing.
an order of the District Court, discharging two aliens froi
the custody of immigration officers by a writ of habeas
corpus.
Mr. Harold.VanRiper for.petitioners.

280

OCTO]ER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

:
284 U.S.

-General
Mr. Claude R. Branch, with whom Solicitor
Thacher, Assistant Attorney General Dodds, and Messrs.
Frank M. Parrishand William H. ley, Jr., wete on the
brief, for respondent.
MI. JusTIcE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the Court.
The. relators, A'spasia Polymeris and. her daughter
Antigone, are .Greek citizens who lawfully entered the
United States in 1909 and lived for a number of years in
New York City, which became nd remains.their domicil.
.In 1923, on account of the illness .of "Aspasia's husband,
they went back to Greece with the intention; which the
courts below found that they retained, of malig only atemporary visit. The death of the husband aid the necessity of settling his "estate prolonged their stay until
1924. Beginning in that-year they made several unsuccessfuI applications to the United States Consul General
at Athens for documents that would permit them to return to New York. -Finally, in 1929,. they got authority
to cross Canada, on a pretended trip from Greece to Japan,
and, in 1930, presented themselves ht St. Albans, Vermont, for admission to the United States. They weretaken into custody. by -the inmigration inspector and
sought release by habeascorpus, on the ground that they
were entitled to enter the country. It. was held that they
"were -properly excluded under § 13 (a) of the Immigra-tion Act. of May 26, 1924, 43 Stat. 153, 161., since the Sec* retary.of Labor did not adiit them in his discretion,-.
and neither presented an unexpired valid im~migroation visa,
or an unexpired valid permit to regnter in accordance with
the regulations- promulgated under •§ 13 (b) of that Act."49 F.. (2d) 730. A contrary decision was reached in John-son V. Keating, 17 F. (2d)" 50. Therefore a writ of certiorari was granted by this Court.
The relators have no right to entei 'the United States.
unless it has been given to them by the United States.

LEWIS v. REYNOLDS.
279

Counsel for Parties.

The burden of uroof is upon them to show that they have
the right. Immigration Act of 1924, § 23, 43 Stat. 165;
Code, Title 8, § 221. By § 13, and the-regulations under
it, as remarked by the court belowi-a returning alien can
not enter unless.he has either.an immigration visa or a
return permit. The relators must show not only that
they ought to be admitted but that the United States,
by the only voice authorized to express its will, has said
so. Obviously it has not -done so, andtherefore the judgment mustbe affirmed.'
Judgment affirmed:
LEWISET AL., TRUSTEES; v. REYNOLDS, COLLEC-

TOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEAW FOR THE
TENTH -CIRCUIT.

No. 115. Argued December 8, 9, 1931.-Decided January 4, 1932.

In acting upon.a claim for refund based .upon the' disallowance of a
particular deduction. the Commissi6ner of .Internal Revenue has
-authority to reaudit the return.and to reject the claim on the basis
of the disallowance of another'leduction even though the statute
of limitations prevents him from making an additional assessment
for the year involved. P. 283.

48 P. (2d) 515, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, post p. 600, to rdview a decision, affirming
-a judgment in favor of the Collector in an action for a
refund of income taxes.

Mr. N. E. Cortell for petitioners.
Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, with whom
olicitor General Thacher, Messrs. Whitney North Sey-.
mour and Sewall-Key, and Miss Helen R. Carloss were on
the brief, fof respondent.

