OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

"284U.S.

(aside from active coal) was assessed at the same value
an acre, despite well known and important differences
in value, the result would have been an undervaluation
of similar coal belonging to other owners, which would
have brought the case of the petitioners within the principle -of the decisions cited. In such case, if the petitioners' property had been valued at one hundred per cent.
of its actual value, the like property of the other owners,
haviing a higher actual.value, would in effect have been
valued-at less than one hundred per cent. The discrimmination is essentially the same, and is equally repugnant to constitutional right, when both assessments are
made on the basis of fifty per cent. of assigned values and
differences in actual values are deliberately and systematically disregarded. The undervalued property is in effect
valued at less than fifty per cent. of its actual value; for
example, coal of the same description worth twice -as
much as that of the Cumberland Coal Company was
really valued at twenty-five per cent. of 'its actual value.
The petitioners are entitled to a readjustment of the
assessments of their coal so as to put these assessments
upon a basis of equality, with due regard to differences in
actual value, with other assessments of th6 coal of the
same class within the tax district.
The decrees are reversed and the causes are remanded
for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
SANTOVINCENZ0, CONSUL OF THE KINGDO1.M
OF ITALY AT NEW YORK, v. EGAN, PUBLIC

ADMINISTRATOR,

ET_ AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SURROGATES' COURT OF THE COUNTY OF
NEW YORK, STATE OF NEW YORK

No. 31.

Argued October 22, 1931,--Decided November 23, 1931.

1: Case from a state court, involving thBe construdtion and application
of treaties, held reviewable by certiorari. P,85,

*SANT.VINCENZO v. EGAN..
30

31

Statement of thA Case.

'2 -Article XVII of the Consular Convention of 1878 with Italy pro.vides that "The respective Consuls General ... shall enjoy in
both countries all the rights, prerogatives, immunities and privileges which are or may hereafter be'granted to the office.rs of the
same grade, of the most favoured nation." Article VI of the Treaty
of 1856 with Persia (terminated-in 1928) declares: "In case of a.
-citizen or subject of either. of the contracti g parties dying within
the'territories of the other, his effects shall be delivered lip integrally to the family or partners in business of the deceased; and
in case he has 'no relations or partners, his effects in either country
shall be delivered up to the consul or agent of the nation of which
the deceased.wag a subject'or citizen, so that he may dispose of
them in accordance with' the laws of his country.' An Italian
subject, domiciled in New York, died there, intestate and without
.heirs or 'next of kin, before the termination of the treaty; and,
in the administration of his estate by the New York courts, the
question arose wlether his net assets, after satisfying creditors and
expense of administration, should escheat to the State or -be paid
t4Dothe Italian Cohisul General for disposition, to the Kingdom of
Italy. Held:
(1) The provisioh in the convention, assuming it contemplates
reciprocity of rights and is-so recognized by Italy, confers upon the
Consul General the rights defined by the treaty provision. P. 36.
(2) The termination of the treaty, hving, occurred after the
death, does not affect the case. Id.
(3) The net.assets must be delivered to the Consul General, since
Arf. -VI contains no qualification recognizing precedence of local
laws'.:and, when considered -ith other portions bf'the treaty, and
the general purpose of the treaty to promote commercial intercourse, it clearly includes subjects of either country, who are domiciled in the other. Pp. 36-89.
3. As treaties are contracts between independent nations, their words
are to be taken in their ordinary meaning as understbod -in the
public law of nations. P. 40.
4. 'Mhe United States, under the' treaty-pi]dng power, may "determine
the disposition of property of aliens) and any conflicting law. of a
State must yield. Id.
135 N. Y. Misc. 733; 240 N. Y. Supp. 691, reversed.

APPE L, given the effect of a writ of certiorari, to review
a decree of the Surrogates' Court of New York County
settling an estate, which wa' affirmed by the Appellate
Division, 229 App. Div. 862; 243 N, Y, S, 814, The

32

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Arguinent for Appellant.

284U.S.

,record went back to the Surrogates' Court by remittitur,
leave to appeal to the Court of- Appeals having been
denied by that.court and by the' Appellate Division.

* Mr Carrol G. Whlter, with whom Mi. Ralph Atkins
was on the brief, for appellant.
Thd? question in this case is to be carefully distinguished
fromi the much-discussed question of -the right .of foreign
consuls to administer the estates of their nationals (Rocca
v. Thompson, 223 U. S. 317; Matter of D'Adamo, 212
N. Y. 214). No right of administration is here asserted.
The *Iprd"effects" unquestionably includes personal
property of all kinds. 19 C. J. 1017; Bouvier's Law
Dictionary; Burrll's Law Dictionary; Todok v. Union
State Bank, 281 U. S. 449, 453, 454.
The test, laid down in the treaty is nationality and not
domicile.
The treaty coincides with 'and furthers :the longstanding policy of the UnitedStates to have its consuls
take possession of the estates of its citizens, who die in
foreign countries leaving no legal claimint there, and
remit the same to this country. Rev. Stats § 1709; U. S.
Code, Title 22, § 75; Act of April 14, 1792, 1 Stat. 255;
Matter of D'Adamo, 212 N. Y. 214;.Rocca v. Thompson,
:223 U. S-317, 332.
If the matter were in doubt, then, too, the construction
contbnded for by the appellant should be ,adopted.
Asakura v. Seattle, 265 U. S. 332, 342; Nielsen v. Johnson,
g79-U. S. 4?, 52;.Jorddn v. Tashiro, 278 U' S. 123, 127;
Geofroy v. Riggs, 133 U. S.258, 271, 272.
The -statutes of New York, in accordance with which
the courts belo* directed payment of the estAte, are inconsistenf with.the treaties and therefore invalid. The courts
below, i ubstance and effect, have denied the validity of
the treaties. See Bryant v. Zimmerman, 278 U. S.63, 67.

SANTOVINCEN20 v.".]EGAN.
30

Argument for Appellee.

When two constructions of a treaty are possible, the one
which enlarges, rather than restricts, the rights: claimed
under it is-to be preferred.
Decedent's estate is a derelict estate. It escheats either
to New York or to Italy. The only question is: To which
sovereign does it escheat?
Mr. Robert P. Beyer, Deputy Assistant Attorney General of New York, with whom Mr. John J.. Bennett, Jr.,
Attorney General; was on the brief, for appellee.
The established rule that succession to perionalty
follows the law of the domicile is not affected .by. the
Persian treaty.
. Whether the treaty-making power may constitutionally
supplant, or even qualify, the state laws regulating the
administratioj of estates, was left open to question in
Matte of D'Adamo, 212 N, Y. -214, although- the court
cites, and without disapproval, the opinions of various
secretaries of state disclaiming the existence, of such a
power. Nor is that question here involved. The construction of the treaty here 'sought is, as that opinion
points out, so subversive, of our settled law, that it should
be rejected. It was d~signed to apply only to derelict
estates.
To .hold that the treaty applies solely to Persian
nationals temporarily sojourning here, not only reconciles
the convention to Well settled law, but gives it a rational,
if not the only credible interpretation.
In this view of the understanding of the treaty, it is
not- deemed necessary to comment on appellant's insistence that he is entitled to a its benefits, perforce of the
"most favored nation" clause of the Italian treaty. It
must be presumed:.that the subject was under consideration in 1894, when our Government declined to authorize
Italian consuls to settle the estates of their decease4
85912-2----3

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284U.S.

nationals in this country. See Rocca v; -Thompson, 223
U. S. 317, affirming 157 Cal. 552.
The State has declared a. settled policy thaf a.ll perInal
property of persons domiciled within its borders i . to
remain in the State unless directed to be paid to th~se
next of kin who are proved to be actually entitled thereto.
No presumption destructive of state sovereignty should
be indulged.
MI. CHIEF JUSTICE -HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Antonio Comincio, a native of Italy, died intestate in
New York City sometime prior to March 10, 1925, when
letters of administration were issued to the respondent
as Public Administrator by the Surrogates' Court of New
York County. Upon the judicial settlement of the administrator's account, the appellant, the Consul General
of-Italy at New York, presented the .claim that the decedent at the time of his death was a subjpct of the King
of Italy and had left no heirs or next of kin, and that,
under Article XVII of the Consular Con-vention of 1878
between the United States and Italy, the petitioner was
entitled to receive the net assets of'the estate for distrihu.tion to the\Kingdom bf Italy. The Attorney General"
ot NTew York dontested the claim. The Surrogates' Court,
fine jng that the domicile of the deceqent was in 14ew York
Citji, decreed that the balance of the estate, amounting
to $914:64, after payment of debts 'and the sums allowed
as commissip arid as expenses of administration, be
paid into the "treasury of New. York City for the use and
beniefit Of the untiiovn kin of the decedbnt.. The dqcrde
was affirned by the Appellate Division of: the Supreme
Court' of .the Statd, First 'Depar.tment, .andboth the Appellate Divsion. andthe, Court of Appeals of the State

denied e4ve to appeal, to the latter conit, Th e.se may

SANTOVINCENZO v. EGAN.
30

35

Opinion of the Court.

be regarded as properly.here on certiorari. Jud. Code,
§.237.. (c); U. S. C., Tit. 28, § 344 (c).
There is no controversy as to the facts. The decedent
was never naturalized, and at the time of his death was
an 'Italian subject. He had. lived in New,-York formany
-years, and the 'finding that the decedent was domiciled
there is not open to question. Nor were aiiy heirs or
neit of kin discovered. The tesfimohy introduced on
behalf of the Italian Consul General,, which 'was undisputed, stated that the decedent had no relatives,. and the.
decree of the Surrogates' Court recited that fiext of kin
were unknown. The decree was'made pursuiaht to c. 230
of the Laws of New York of 1898. The Surrogate said in
his opinion: "Pursuant to our stitutes this amount would
be directed in the decree to be paid-into the city treasury
6f the City of New York to await ascertainment of the
.next'of kin.. Ultimately the amount"would find. its way
into the treasury of the State of -Nt.F York."
The provision of the Consular Convention between the
United States and Italy, under which the claim of the
italian Consul General .was made,. provides (20 Stat,
725, 732):
"A)ticle 'XVII. The respective Consuls General, Con-,
suls, Vice-Consuls and Consular Agents, as likewise the
".Consular Chaficellors, Secretaries, Clerks or Attachs,
shall enjoy in both countries; all the rights, prerogatives,
immunities and privileges which are or may hereafter be
granted to the officers qf lhe, same grade, of the 'most
favoured, nation."
-Pursuant to this -greement, the Italian Consul General
sought the application ofArticle VI of the Treaty between
the United States and Persia of 1856i as follows (11 Stat.
709, 710):
"Article VI. kIn case of a citizen, or 'subject of either
-of the contracting parties dying within, the territories of
the other, his effects shall be deliyered up integrally to"

36'

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284U.S.

the family or partners in business of the deceased; and
in case he has no relations or partners, his effects in either
country shall be delivered up to the consul or agent of the
nation of which the deceased was a subject or citizen, so that he may dispose of them in accordance with the laws,
of hig country."
This Treaty with Persia was terminated on Ma 10,
1928, but, as this was subsequent to the death 'of the
Ifalian national whose estate-is inquestion, the termination does not affect the present case.'
It may be assumed that Article XVII of the-C nsular•

Convention with Itay contemplates reciprocity with respect -to,the rights and privileges sought, and there is no
muggestiori that Italy has not recognized the.right of con)suls of the United States to tak e the effects of-the 6itizens
"-of the United States dying in Italy in circumstances similar to those in which the present claim of the Italian
Consul Gfenerai is pressed. -As, in this view, there appears
-tobe no ground for denying theright of the Italian Cofisul
"General to demand the applic.tion of the last clause of
Article VI of the Treaty with Persia," he only question is
as to theinterpretation of that provision.
* We are not here conceinid with questions of mere ad-minstration, nor Us-ft-necessary. to determine that the
-4oosephrasing of the provisions of Article VI precludes an
appropriate -locldoation to protect th6e-rights of
creditors.. Nor have we to deal wih a case of testamentaxy. disposition. ITh this instance there is no will,
, adminidtration has been had, cieditors have been paid,
-properstepshave been taken, Without success, to discover
'kin bf the decedexit, and, assuming the absence of relatives, the -question is one of escheat, that is, .whether the
net assets shall go to Italy br to the-State of New..York.
"Th provision of Arficle.VI of the Treaty With Persia does'
not contai the qualifyig words "conformxhably with the
laws of the county" (where the deAth oecurred) as in

SANTOVINCENZO v. EGAN.

30

37

Opifion of the Court.

the case Iof the Treaty between the United States and,
.the Argentine bonfederation of 1853 (Art. IX, 10 Stat.
1001, 1009; Rocca v. Thompson, 223-U. S. 317, 326, 330,
332); or the phrase "so far as the"laws of each country
*ill permit" as in the Consular Convention between the
United States and Sweden of 1910- (Art. X , 37 Stat
1479, 1487, 1488 'Rocca v. .Thompson,.*spra; Matter of
D'Adamol 212 N. Y. 214, 222, 223;-106 N. -E. 81). .The
omission from. Article VI -of the'Trea -with Persia. of a
clause of this sort, so frehuently found in treaties of th
class, ,must be'regarded, as deliberate. .In the circumstances shown, it is .plaik that effect. must -be given tofhe requirement that .the property of the decedent "shall
be delivered up to the consul or-,ag6nt bf the nation 6f
which the deceased was a subject or citizen, .so that he
may di.Jese of: them-in accordance with the laws of his
country," unless a different rule is to apply simply be.
cause the decedent was domiciled in the. United States.
TheI langage of the provision suggests ho such
distinetton and, if it is to be mainfained, -it -must be tlhe
result of construction based upxon- the supposed intention.
of the parties fo establish an exception of which their
words give no hint.' In ordef to determine'whether jsuch
a,construction is admissible,<regard should be had to the. purpose of-the Treaty-and othe context-of the provision
in question. The-Treaty belongs.t6 a class of con~uercial
treaties the chief purpose of which is to promote -inter-.
course, which is facilitated by. residence. :-Those-citizens
or- subjects of one party who are permitted under the
Treaty to reside in'the territory of -the other party are.
to enjoy, While they are such residents, yertain-stipulated
rights and -privileges.' Whether there Is -domiciliaryintelit, r 'domicile is acquire& in fact, is -ot made the test
of th enjoyment of these rights and privileges. The
word "citizens" and "subjects" are -used in se- eral
articles of the Treaty witj Persia and in no instance are
-

38

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.

Qpinion of the Court.

284U.S.

they qualif ed by a distinction between residence and
domicile. Thus, in Article III we find the following provision, (11 Stat. 709.):
"Article III. The citizens and subjects of the two high
contracting parties,, travellers, merchants, manufacturers,
land others, who may reside in the territory of either
country, shall be respected and efficiently protected by
the authorities of the country and their agents, and
treated in all respects as the subjects and citizens of the
most favored nation are treated."
It would be wholly inadmissible to conclude that it was
the intention that -citizens of the United States, making
their residence in Persia under this Treaty,- would be
denied the benefit of Article III in case they acquired a
domicile in Persia. - The provision contemplated residence, nothing is said to indicate that domicile is excluded, ana the clear impoit of the provision is that, so
long as they retained their status as citizens of the United
States, they would be entitled to the guaranty of Article
III. -The same would be true of Persians permitted to
reide here under the Treaty.
- Again, the Provisions of Article V of the Treaty were
of,special importance, as they provided for extraterritoWial jurisdiction of the -United States in relation to the
- adjudication of disputes.1 It would thwart the major
1

"Article V. All suits and disputes arising in Persia between Persian subjects and citikens of the United States, shall he carried before
the Persian tribunal to which such matters are usually referred at'
the place whore a consul or agent of the United States ^may reside,
and shall be discussed, and decided according to equity 'in
the presence
of an employ6 of the consul or agent of the United States.
"All suits and-disputes which may arise in the empire of Persia
* between citizens of the United States, shall be referred entirely for
trial and for adjudication to the consul or agent of the United States
residing in the province wherein. such suits and disputes may have

SANTOVINCENZO -. EGAN.
30

. Opinion of the-Court,

p'irpose of. the Treaty to exclude from the inportant
protection of these 'provisions citizens of .the United
States who might be domiciled in Persia. The test of the
application of every paragraph of Article V, with respect
both to citizen:s of the United States and to Persian subjects, clearly appears to be that of nationality, irrespective
of the acquisition of a, domicile as distinguished from
residence.
We find no warrant for a more restricted interpretation
of the words "a citizen or subject: of either of the contracting parties" in Article VI than that which must be
given to. the similar description of persons throughout
the other artiles of the Treaty. The same intention
which made nationality, without limitation with respect
to domicile, the criterion in the other provisions, dominates this provision. The, provision of Article VI is reciprocal. The property of a Persian subject dying within
the United States, leaving no. kin, is to be dealt with in
the same manner as the property of "a citiien of the
United States dying in Persia in similar circumstances.
arisen, or in the, province nearest to it, who shall decide them according to the laws of the United States.
"All suits and disputes occurring in Persia between the citizens
of ihe United States and the subjects of other foreign powers, shall
be tried and adjudicated by the intermediation of their respective
consuls or agents.
"In the United States, Persian subjects, in all disputes arising

between themselves, or between them and citizens of the United
States or foreigners, slall be judged according to the rules adopted
in the United States respecting the subjects of the. moit favored
nation.
"Persian subjects residing in the United States, and citizens of the
United States residing in Persia, shall, when charged with criminal
offences, be tried and judged in Persia and the United States'in the
same manner as are the subjects and citizens of the most favored
nation residing in either of the above-mentioned countries."

A0

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284U.S."

It is not necessary to invoke the familiar rule -withrespect to the liberal construction of treaties, 2 as the instant
case merely calls for a reading'of the provision as to
"citizens" and "subjects '"according to its terms. There
is no appicable principle which- permits ;us to narrow
them. As treaties are contracts between independent
nations, their words are to be*taken in their ordinary
meaning "as understood in the public law of nations."
Geofroy v. Riggs, 133 U. S. 258, 271.
There can be no question as to the power of the Government of the United States to make the Treaty with Persia
or th- Consular Convention with Italy. The treaty-making power is broad enough to cover all subjects that properly pertain to our foreign relations, and agreerment With
respect to the rights and privileges of citizens of the
United Statesin foreign countries, and of the nationals of
such countries within the United States, and the disposition of the property of aliens dying within the territory
of the respective parties, is within the scopef that power,.
@ud any conflicting law of the State must yield. Hauenstein v. Lynham, 100 U. S. 483, 489; Geofroy v. RWiggs,
Missouriv. Holland,252 U. S.416, 434;
supra, at p. 266; "
Sullivawv. Kidd, 254 U.: S.433, 440; Asakura v. Seattle,
265 U. S. 332,,-343; Todok v. Union State Bank, 281
U. S.449, 453.
Our conclusion is that, by virtue of the most-favoredLation clause of Article XVII of the Consular Convention
.between the Unitd States and Ital- of f878,. the Italian
Consul General was entitled in- the instant case, being
th.t.of the death of an Italian national in this country
prc6ir to the teimination of the Treaty between the United
'Haua,,teinv. Lynham, 100 US. 483, 487;: Geofr6y v. Rigg, 133
U. S. 258, 21; Tucker v. Aln.droff, 183 U. S. 424,437; Asakurav.
Seattle, 265 U. S: 332, 342; Jordan v. Tashiro, 278 U. S.123, 127;
Pien v. Johnson, 279 U.8. 47, 52.

STATEI TAX C&MMISSION v.c"
30

CO.

41

-Argument for. AppeWpts.

States and Persia of -1856, to the benefit of. Article VI of
that Treaty, and 'that the net assets .of'the decedent
should be delivered to him accordingly.
, The decree is reveried; and the cause is remanded for
lurther proceedings.not inconsistent with- this opinion.
.Reziersed.
STATE TAX COMMISSION OF MISSISSIPPI W AL.

v. INTERSTATE NATURAL GAS- CO., INC.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.

No.40." Argued October 26, 1931.-Decided November 23, 1931.
The selling of gas wholeiale to local, independent distributors from
a supply passing into'and through the State in interstate commerce,
does rot become a local affair and subject toa local privilege..tax
melely because the vendor, to deliver the quantities sold, uses'a
thermometer and a metdr and reduces the pressure..
Affirmed.
-

APPEAL from a decree enjoining the Commission froih

enforcing a privilege tax.
Mr. Edward R. Holmes, Jr., argued the cause for appellants, appearing pro hac vice by leave of Court; and
Messrs. George T. -Mitchell,Attorney General of Mississippi, And J. A. Lauderdale, Assistant Attorney General;
were on the brief.
The New York contracts are simply executory conttacts of sale. The appellee cannot tell what gas it will
sell to the distributor at Woodville, or what gas it will
carry on through Mississippi into Louisiana. None of the
gas is actually sold before it leaves the gas fields in
Louisiana. It is true that the appellee is transporting
gas with a view to selling it, but, before it relinquishes the
title and control of any of it by delivery to the distributor,
-

