312

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Syllabus. '

284 U.S.

FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF BOSTON, EXECUTOR, v. MAINE.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT OF MAINE.
No. 171.

Argued December 10, 1931.-Decided January 4, 1932,

1. Where a stockholder dies domiciled in a State other'than that in'
which the corporation was created and has its propeiy, the State
of his domicile has power to tax the succession to the shares by
will or inheritance, but the State of the corporation can not do so.
2. A resident of Massachusetts died there owning shares in a Maine
corporation, most of the property of which was in Maine. A
Massachusetts tax was assessed and*paid on legacies and distributive shares made up largely -of the proceeds of the stock. A like
tax was assessed in Maine, from which the. amount of 'the Massachusetts tax was deducted. Held that the, tax .by Maine was invalid under the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
P. 326 et seq.
3. A transfer from the dead to the living of any specific property
is an event single in character and is effected under the laws, and
occurs within the limits, of a particular State; and it is unreasonable, and incompatible with a sound construction of the due process
clause of the Fourteenth Amndment, to hold that jurisdiction td
tax that event may be distributed among a numler of States. P.
327.
4. The considerations that justify application of. the maxim ?iwbilia
sequ7lntur personam to death transfer taxes imposed in respect of
bonds, certificates of indebtedness, notes, credits and bank deposits apply, with substantially the same force, in respect of
shares of corporate stock. Id.
5. Ownership of shares by the stockholder and ownership of _the
capital. by the. corporation are -not identical. The former is an
individual interest giving the stockholder a right to a 1iroportional
part of the dividends and the effects of the corporation when dissolved, after payment of its debts. And this interest is an incorporeal property right which,.attaches to the person of the owner
* in the State'of his domicile. P. 330.
6. The fact that the.property of the corporation is' situated in' another State affords no ground for the imposition by that State of a
death tax upon the transfer of the stock; nor does the further fact
of incorporation under the laws of that State. !d.

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. MAINE.
312

Argument for Appellant.

7. Power of State of incorporation to tax stock transfers and issue of
new certificates, distinguished. P. 330.
8. The question whether shares of stock as well as-other intangibles
may be so used in a State other than that of the owner's domicile
as to give them a situs there for tax jurposes analogous to the
actual situs of tangible property, is not here presented. P. 331.
130 Me. 123; 154 AtI. 103, reversed.

APPEAL from a judgment sustaining a sudcession tax.
An action in debt brought by the State to collect the tax
was referred upon an, agreed statement of facts to the
Sipreme Judicial Court.
Mr. Leonard A. Pierce, with whom Messrs. Charles-L.,
Hutchinson, Herbert J. Connell, and Marion. H. Fisher
were on the brief, for appellant.
The exclusive situs of the shares, for inheritance tax
purposes, was in Massachusetts. FarmersLoan,& Trust
Co. v. Minnesota, 280 U. S.'204; Baldwin v. Missouri,
281 U. S.586; Beidler v. South CarolihiaTax Comm.,,282
U. S. 1.
There is no distinction between registra'idn of bonds
-and recording transfers of stocks sufficient to warrant a
tax for the latter." FarmersLoan & Trust Co. v. Minnesota, supra.
Shares are intangibles or choses in action, ,and as such
are within, the language and principle, of the three cases
cited: See Union RefrigeratorCo. v. Kentizcky, 199 U. S.
194, 206; Hawley v. Malden, 232 U. S.1, 12; Rhode Island
Trust Co. V. Doughton., 270 U. S. 81;. Blodgett v..Silberman, 277 U. S.1, 9, 10, 18.
If the tax in this case is valid, shares of stock may be
subjected to much more than double ,taxation. Shares of
a transcontinental railway, for example, may be taxed by
every. State in which it was incoporated.
Maine has never attempted to fix the situs of stock in

Maine corporations within that State, either, for the purpose of a property tax or to provide for a, succession tax.

314

OCTOBER TERM., 1931.
Argument for Appellant.

284U.'S.

The Maine statutes completely ignore the theory of situs,
unlike the Maryland statute. involved in. Corry v,Baltimore, 196 U. S. 466. They'deal with the clerical act of
recording stock transfers, reserving'no power to tax. By
the decisions of the Maine court, the succession to personal property, wherever situated, is governed by the laws
of the owner's domicile.
If 'the CQrry case and those approving it are good Jaw'
today and the'reasoning of the Farmers Loan Co. case is
still to be applied, it necessarily follows that shares. in a
corporation organized under -the laws of a State having
statutes similar to that of Maryland, have their situs -for'
taxation purposes in the State of incorporation and have
no tax situs in the State of the shareholder's domicile.
Such a result is extremely undesirable and constitutes a
step backward fromthe onlightenedview of the latter case
andthe Baldwin and Beidlr cases.
It seems to us that the logical, practical and consistent
position is, that the Farmers case htsi established the
principle that, intangibles cannot longer be subject- to
more than one tax, and that the power of the State possessing the jurisdiction to tax is exclusive. We submit,
that the doctrine of mobilia sequuntur personam should
control the situs of corporate stock for succession and all
other tax purposes, and that, under that rule, stock purchased by a nonresident ipgo Jacto acquires immediately a
tax situs in the: State of his domicile;. that the State of
incorporation cannot by statute fix a different Aitus" for
stock owned by a nonresident, or reserve power to tax
such stock beyond its jurisdiction; and that any statute.
which attempts to fix: a different (an' hence conflicting..
'and double) tax situs or jurisdiction, is unconstitutional.
Thirty-eight States,,. including Maine, have impliedly
adopted this principleby-" reciprocal -exenipion" statutes, ihwhich n6 distinction is made between stocks and
bonds, aid under which the right of the State of the share-

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. MAINE.
312

Argument for Appellant.

holder to impoge succession taxes thereon is conceded,
and its jurisdiction made exclusive.
If Maine has, and has exercised, the'legal right to define
the manner in which shares in one of its corporations
shall pass upon the decease of a nonresident 9wner, then
Maine Jhas the incidental right to levy its tax upon the
privilege which it has so conferred. Maine, however, has
'not attempted to control such succession. It admits.that
the stocl~in question passes by virtue of the law of Massachusetts. It makes no attempt whatever "to control,
limit, augment or subtract from any privilege granted by
Massachusetts. It'attempts nerely to extract a toll for
the exercise of a right which it does not pretend to confer,
and it seeks to 'ustain the toll (imposled by 'it) upon
a bare clerical act within its boundaries, which it says is
necessary to "complete the devolution" of the stock in
question. We contend the imposition of that toll under
the circumstances is unconstitutional.
In Susquehanna Power Co. v. Tax Comm., 283 U. S..
291, this Court pointed out that the Maryland court, construing a statute similar to that in the Corry case, found
the assessment did not exceed the value of the tahgible
personal property'of the corporation within the State, and
was in lieu of any direct tax on that property-and could
well be sustained as an indirect tax. This is another feature distinguishing the Maryland statute from that of
Maine.
In the FPick case, the question of the validity of the
transfer taxes collected by the States where the corporations were organized, the stock of which was owned and
held by-Frick in Pennsylvania, was neither in issue nor
was it discussed. The tax waipaid by the executors without questioning the power of the States to impose the tax.
The statement in the Dbughton case, at p. 81, that the
State in which a corporation is organized may provide, in
creating it, for the taxation in that State of all its shares,

.316

OCTOBER TERM,-.1931.
Argument for Appellee.

284 U. S.

whether owned by residents or nonresidents, ig also a
dictum.
In Hawley v. Malden, 232 U. S. 1 - Hannis Distilling
Co. v. Baltimore, 216U. S. 285; Corry v. Baltimore, 196
U. S..466; and Tappan v. Xlerchants Bank, 19 Wall. 490,
,the tax in every instance was a property tax and not an
inheritance-tax.
The occurrence of a single transfer of property in more
than one StAte is an impossibility.
Mr. Clement F. Robinson, Attorney G-oneral of Maine,
with whom Mr. Nathan W. Thompson was on the brief,
for appellee.
Aside from questiois of double taxation, the incorporating State shduld and does have the power to tax the shares
and to require an inheritance tax on their transfer,
whether owned, by riesidents, or nonresidents. Rhode
Island Trust Co. v. Doughton, 270 U. S. 69; Frick v. Pennsylvania, 268 U. S. 473; Baker v. Baker, 242 U. S. 394;
Re Bronson, 156 N. Y. 1; Fisher v. Brucker, 41 F. (2d)
774; IndustrialTrust)Co. v. Tax Comm., 250 N. Y. S. 113;
:Equitable Trust Co. v. Tax Comm., 204 C. C. H. 11,490;
Benson v. Minnesota, 236 N. W. 626.
Inheritance tax cases originated in, and are a corollary
to, the well established doctrine that the State of the incorporation may tax the shares as property. Corry v.
Baltimore, 196 U. S. 466.
This'power to tax is an incident of the jirisdiction of
the State over shareholders in its corporations. The ultimate basis is the fact that the State created, prbtects and
sustains th6 corporation. On the fundamental economic
and political theory that taxation and protection may well
go-hand in hand,. Maine should therefore have the. right
to tax the shareholder. See Jellnick v. Huron Co., 177
U. S.1; Tappan v. Merchants Bank, 19 Wall. 490; Glen v.
Liggett, 135 U. S. 533.

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. MAINE.
312

-

317

Argument for Appellee.

Stock in a Maine corporation cannot be validly transferred except on the books of the corppration;" the cor- poration cannot sell out its assets over the objection of
a minority stockholder; and dissolution proceedings must
be brought in the equity courts of Maine. 'These provisions are obviously of much more moment than the
mere registration of a bond; they amount to -much more
than the mere recording of a transfer of property. Furthermore, Maine is where this corporation has its property and does 'its business. There is no claim whatever
that the certificates of stock themselves had a "business
situs" there. But Maine is -where the corporafion "carries on," and to that extent the corporation may be said,
in some degree at least, to have had a "business situs"
in Maie.
The effect of a "business situs" has been specially referred to in Farmers Loan & Trust Co. v. Minnesota, 280
U.S. 204; and Beidler v. Tax Comm., 282 U. S. 1. Those
cases indicate that, in a proper case, a State where a business has its situs may tax the transfer of a nonresident's
ownership therein, in analogy to the property. tax cases
under the 'Louisiana law. New Orleans v. Steznpel, 175
U. S. 309; Bristol vt. Washington County, 177 U. S. 133;
State'Boardv. Comptoir, 191 U. S. 388; MetropolitanLife
Ins. Co. v. New Orleans; 205 U. S. 395; Liverpool Co. v.
New Oileans,221 Y.: S. 346. Cf. Hilt v. Carter,47 F. (2d)
869.
. Because of 'the distinction between debtor-creditor obligations and shares of stock, it is not necessary in this
case to base the contention of the State on the. theory of
business situs.
In none of the three recent cases in this Court were corporate shares involved, exceptby way of the executor's conceding South Carolina's right to tax them in the'Beidler
case. These cases deal with bonds, certificates of indebt-

318

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Appellee.

284 U.S.

edness, notes, bank deposits,-in short, debtor-creditor
obligations.
The difference between debtor-creditor obligations and
corporate shares is more than a question of degree. By
acquiring stock the shareholder enters into a definite
status. He has a right to share in the management, liofits
and ultimate assets of his corporation; may consent or
object to the closing up of the corporation and winding
up of its affairs; and may participate in the distribution
of its assets.- If he wishes to vote his shares, he must
come to tie State of incorporation, in person or by proxy.
IHe takes the stock impressed with the existing and subject to the future laws of that State regulating corporations.
If practicable, both the State of the incorporation and
the State of the domicile should retain the right to, an
n.theritance tax on' this transfer. If, to avoid the evils
of double taxatioi, the Court should'rule out the right
of Maine to tax this iransfer; many cases sustaining not
only .this right but also the right of property taxation
must'be overruled. See Ft. Smith Co. v. Arkansas, 251'
U. S5632; Cream of Wheat Co. v. GrandForks, 253 U. S.
325; Swiss Oil Co. v. Shanks, 273 U. S. 407; Helmich v.
Hellman, .276 U. S. 233; Masxwell v. Bugbee, 250 U. S.
525; :PaddeUl v. New York, 211 U. S. 446; Welch v. Boston,
231 Mass. 155. Hunt v. Perry, 165 Mass. 287; Rogers v.
Hen'nepin Co., 240 U. S: 184; Citigzens Bank v. Durr, 257
U. S. 99; Rogers Estate, 149 Mich. 305; State v. Probate
Court, 145 Minn. 155. From these cases it will be seen
that avcertain amount of double taxation has always.been
approved b3/ the courts.
As amatter of principle both States should have the
right to tax, whether or not as a matter of public polidy
they exercise it..
The only reasonl'for confining inheritance taxation of
debtor-creditbr- obligations to the domicile is the double

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. lAINE.
312

319

_Argument f6r Appellee.

taxation which' otherwise occurs under complex modem
conditions. But the right of a State to regulate and tax
its own corporations is of such peculiar importance that
it should not lightly be overturned merely'-for the sake
of avoiding another evil.
Strictly speaking, double taxation is paying twice over
for the same measure of protection. If the privilege of
.inheritance and transmission requires the protection of
the laws of two jurisdictions both should exact a tax.
Unless both States may tax, there will be a complete
escape from death duties in some estates of such shue as to
be within the scope, of the state inheritance tax systems,
though below the federal estate tax minimum. The nation as a whole will suffer. An exenption of corporate
shares in the State of incorporation, where they can readily be located, will put a, premium on the concealment of
assets in order to escape taxation at the domicile.'
The argument on policy and expediency should, of
course, have no effect toward validating a tax fundamentally illegal, but may properly have force toward preserving an existing tax which.is attacked because of its effect
on the community.
The-problem of taxing these shares at the death of their
owner can properly be solved just as it was by the taxing
authorities of the tv~o States concernedi i. e., by.the collecting of a tax in' each jurisdi'ction, Maine's tax carrying
a credit for the Massachusetts tax,-in short, split rather
than double taxation.
Just- how, as a matter of dollars and cents, the tax
should be split, is, it seems to us, not for this Court .to
determine. r In the absence of any showing of discrimination or. confiscation this Court is not concerned with the
proportions. So with the order in point of- time of
assessment.- It may be that logically the tax in Maine
comes. first in order; the amount of the tax in Massachusetts corhes next.'

320

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

28U.S.

By leave of Court, briefs of amici curiae were filed, as
follows:
By Mr. Seth T. Cole on behalf of the Tax Commission
of the State of New York; by Messrs. Henry N. Benson,
Attorney General, and John F. Bonnet. andc William K.
Mokague, Assistant Attorneys General,'on behalf of the
State of Minnesota; by Messrs. John -M.Perry, Samuel
,IV.Fordyce, Thomas W. White, Henry J. Richardson,,and
C. P. Fordyce on behalf of the executors of the will of
-James N. Jarvie; and by Mr. Russell L. Badford on behalf of the City Bank Faimers Trust Co.

MR.Jusnid SU

Emm'1)

delivered the opinion of the.

The questioff presented for .our determination, by this
appeal is whether the State of Maine has power, under
the Fourtsenth Amendment, to impose a tUx upon a
transfer by death of shares of stock in a Maine corpora*tion, forming part-of- the'estate of a decadent, who, at
the- time of his death, Was domiciled in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
* The facts which give rise to the question follow. In
1924, Edward H.' Haskell died- testate, a resident of
•Massachusetts. The greater part of his property consisted of shares of stock in, the Great Northern: Paper.
Company, a Maine corporation, having most of its property in that state. His will was probated in Massachu'setts, where the stook, as a part of his estate, had been
made liable to an inheritance tax'- of like character to
the inheritance tax in force in Maine. The Massachu.setts'tax amounted to over $32,000 and was paid on
legacies and distributive shares made "upin greater part
of the prpoceeds of the paper company stock. Ancillary
admin.istration was taken out in a Maine probate court,
and an inheritance tax, amounting to over $62,000, was

- FIRST

NATIONAL BANK v.- MAINE.
Opinion of the Court.

312

assessed under the Maine statutes I on the property passing -by the will. Upon this amount the tax paid to
Massachusetts was allowed, as a credit, and an action of
debt was brought to recover 'the balance.- Upon' an
agreed "statement embodying the foregoing -facts, the
case -was referred for final decision to the Supreme Judicial Court of the State of Maine, "sitting as a law. c6urt.
That court rendered judgnient for the state, holding that
the shares of stock were "within its jurisdiction and there
subject to an inheritance tax even though the owner
was a nonresident decedent, regardless of whetf]er the
certificates of stock were at the 'time of the death in the
state of the domicile or ini the taxing state;" and that
the Fourteenth Amendment thereby was not infringed.
130 Me. 123; 154 Atl. 103.
Beginning with Blackstode v-Miler, 188 U. S. 189,
decisions of this court rendered before FarmersLoan Co.
v. Minnesota, 280 U. S. 204, it- may be conceded, would
preclude a succesful challenge to the judgment 'of the
state 'court. In the fiist named case it was held'that a
deposit in a' New York' trust company 'to the credit of
Blackstone, who died d6miciled in Illinois, was subject
Sec. 1, c. 69, R. S. Maine, '1916, provides:
"All property within the jurisdiction of ihis state,*and any interest
therein, whether belonging tor inhabitants of this state, or not, and
whether tangible or intangible,. which shall pass by will, by the intestate laws of this state, ... shall be subject.to an inheritance tax
for the use of the state as hereinafter provided...
Bec. 25 of the same chapter in substande provides that.in case of.
transfers of stock owned by a nonresident decedent in a Maine cor-

poration, the tax shall be paid to 'the Attorney General at the.time
of the transfer.
See. 37, c. 51, R. S. Maine, 1916, provides:
"No transfer shall affect the right of the corporation to pay any
dividend due upon the stock, or to treat the holder of record as th'
holder in fact, until such transfer is recorded upon the books of the
corporation or a new certificate is issued to the person to' whom it has'
been so transferred."'
85912°-32--21

,

322-

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U.S..

to a transfer tax imposed by New York, notwithstanding
.the fact that the whole succession, including the deposit;
had been similarly taxed in Illinois. That decision was
overruled by the Farmers Loan Company case, and with
it, of course, all intermediate decisions so far as they
were based on Blackstone v. Miller:
A review of these decisions would serve no useful purpose. While in some of them a restatement of the doctrine of Blackstone v. Miller was urhi'ecessary to a determination of the points presented for consideration, and in
othersthe facts might be distinguished from those of the
present'case; nevertheless, the authority of the Blackstone
case was accepted by all. Frick v. Pennsylvania,268 U. S.
473, 'Was one of tife latest to appfove that case and give
countenance to the general doctrine that itangible property (uilike tangible property) might be subjected -to a
death transfer,tax in more than one state; but this and all
other instances of such approval, whether express or tacit,
with the overthrow of the foundation uponwhich they.
rested, have ceased to have other than historic interest.
•It was by the Frick case, however, that the rule became
definitely fixed that, as to tangible personal property, the
power to tax is exclusively in-the state where the property
has an actual situs; and this, as will be seen later, has an
important bearing on the present case. Mr. Frick, domiciled, in Pennsylvania, died testate owning tangible per-.
sonal property having an actual sitius in New York and
Massachusetts. His will was.probated'in Pennsylvania,
and a transfer tax Was imposed under a Pennsylvania
statute which provided for such a Vix on all property of a
resident decedent, whether within or without the stte.
Ancillary letters were granted in New York and Massachusetts. We decided, pp. 488-492, that the Pennsylvania tax, in so far as it was imposed upon'the transfer of
tangible personalty having an actual situs in other states,
was, In contravention of the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment. Upon a review of former decision§, it was held (1) that the exaction of a tax beyond

FIRST NATIONAI BANK v. MAINE.
312

Opinion of the Court.

-323
j2

"he-power of the state to impose was a taking of property
in violation of the due process clause; (2) that while the
tax laws of a state may reach every object which is under
'its jurisdiction, they cannot be given extraterritorial operation; and (3) that as.respects tangible personal property
having an actual situs in a particular state, the power to
subject it to state taxation rests exclusively in that state,
regardless of the owner's domicile.
The tax there under consideration was not'a property
tax, but one laid on the transfer of property on tho death
of the owner, and as to that.the court said (p. 492):
"But to impose either tax the State must have jurisdiction over the thing that is taxed, and to impose either
without such jurisdiction is mere extortion and in coiltritvention of due process of law."
See also Union Transit Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194,
204; Rhode Island Trust Co. v. Doughton,270 U. S. 69, 80,
The decision of this.court in the FarmersLoan Company
case was foreshadowed by its decision in Safe Deposi &
T. Co.v. Virginia, 280 U. S. 83. -There it was held that
*intangibles, such as stocks and bonds, in the hands of the
legal holder of the title in the state of his residence, may
not be taxed at the domicile of the equitable owner in
another state; and in respect of taxation of the same securities by two states we said (p. 94):
"It would be unfortunate, perhaps amazing, if a legal
fiction originally invented to prevent personalty, from
escaping just taxation, "should compel us to'accept the
irrational view that the same securities were within two
"States at the same instant and because" of this to uphold
a double and oppressive assessment."
A little later at the same term, the FarmersLoaifCompany case was decided. 280 U. S. 204. The facts are
recited at page 208. Henry R. Taylor, domiciled in New
York, died testate leaving negotiable bonds and certificates of indebtedness issued by the State of Minnesota
,and two of her municipalities. Some of them were regis-

324

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U.S.

teredq; none were connected with business carried on by or
for the decedent in ,Mliesota. His will was' probated
and his estate administered in New York, and a tax exacted by that state on-the testamentary transfer. -,Minnesota assessed an inheritance tax upon the same transfer,
which was' upheld by her suireme court. -This court,
applying the maxim mobilia s~quuntur personam, hbld
that the -situs for taxation was in New York; and that
the tax' was there properly inmiposed. The contention on
behalf, of the state was that the obligations were debts of
Minnesota and her municipal corporations, -ubjeot to her

control; that he laws gave them validity, protected them

and provided means for enforcing payment; and that,

accordingly, they had. a situs for taxation also in that
state.
This court, agreed that Blackstone'v.'Miller apd certain
approving, opinions lent support to the view that ordinarily cho'ses in action might be subjected 'to taxation
bo h at the domicile of the debtor and that of the creditor,
and that -two states might tax on different and mQre or
less' inconsistent prihciples .the same testamentary trans-.
fer of such property without conflict with the Fourteenth
A~iiendment. But i 'was.said that the tendency of that
view was to disturb good relations among the states; that
the practical effect of it had been bad; and that a preponderance of the states had endeavore-to avoid the
'evil by resort to reciprocal exemption .laws. Upon these
and-other considerati6ns, which we shall not stop to particularize, the case was overruled as no longer constituting
a correct exposition of existing law. The view that two
states have power to tax the same transfer on different
and inconsistent principles'was distinctly rejected; and
the general reasons which support the rule that tangibles

and their testamentary transfer may be taxed only by' the
state'where they are found were held to be sufficient to
inhibit the taxation by two states of intangibles With

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. MAINE.'
312

325

Opinion of the Court.

taxable situs imposed by due application df the mobilia
maxim.
After saying that choses in action, no less than tangible
personalty,. demand protectibn against multiple taxation,
the court, at p. 212, concluded:
"Taxation is an intensely practical matter and laws in
respect of it should be construed and applied with a view
of avoiding, so fat as possible, unjust and oppressive-consequences. We have determined that in general intangibles may be properly taxed at the domicile of their owner
and we can find no sufficient reason for saying that they
are not entitled to enjoy an immunity against taxation at
more than one place similar to that accorded to tangibles.
The difference between the two things, although obvious
enough, seems insuffidieht to justify the harsh and oppressive discrimination' against intangibles contended for on
behalf of Minnesota,"
Notwithstanding the registration of certain of the bonds, and notwithstanding the contention that Minnesota protects the debt, compels. its payment, And permits its.transfer,
we concluded
tlat the testamentaty transfer was
properly
taxable in New
York, but not also in Minnesota.
This case was 161lowed by Baldwin v. Misiouri, 281
U. S. 586. There the testator,domiciled in Illinois at the'
time of her death; had credits for cash deposited inbanks
located in Missouri, and certain boi*s of the' United
States and promissory notes--all physicaly :within 'that
state. Some of the notes, executed by residents of Missouri, were secured:.on lands in that state. Applying the
principles of the Farmers Loan Company case, we held
that the situs of these credits, bonds and notes was at the
,domicile of the testator, and there passed from the dead
to the living; that they were not within Missouri for taxationpurposes; and that the transfer was not subject to the
power of that state..

OCT01BER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U.S.

Beidler v. South CarolinaTax Comm., 282 U. S. 1, presented still another phase of the subject. There it appeared that a resident of Illinois' died in that state. At
the time of his ,death, a South Carolina corporation was
indebted to him in a large sum upon an open, unsecured
account entered upon the books of the corporation kept
in South Carolina. Again applying the principles of the
FarmersLoan Company case, we held that the transfer by
death of this, debt was taxable only by the state of the
domicile.
It long has been settled law that real property cannot
be taxed, or made the basis of an inheritance tax, except
by the state in which it is located. More recently it became settled that the same rule applies.with respect to
tangible personal property. And it now is established by
the three cases last cited that certain specific kinds of
intangibles, namely, bonds, notes and credits, are subject
to the imposition of an inheritance tax only by the domiciliary state; and this notwithstanding the bonds are registered in-another state, and the notessecured upon' lands'
located in another state, resort to whose laws may be
necessary to secure payment.
The rule of immuimty from taxation by more than
one state, deducible from the decisions in respect of these
various and distinct kinds of property, is broader than
the applications thus far made of it. In its application
to death taxes, the rule rests for its justification upon the
fundamental conception that the transmission from the
dead to the living of a particular thing, whether corporeal
or incorporeal, is an event which cannot take place in
two or.more states at one and the same time.- In respect of tangible property, the opposite view must bb
rejected as connoting a physical impossibility; in the
case of intangible property, it must be rejected as involving an inherent and logical self-contradiction. Due regard for the processes of correct t:,ling .ompF-o'_3 -Etia

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. MAINE.
312

327

Opinion of the Court.

conclusion that a determination fixing the local situs of.a
thing for the purpose of transferring it in one state, carries
with it an implicit denial that there is 'a local sit= in
another state-for the purpose of transferring the same
thing there. The contrary conclusion, as to - intangible
property has led to nothing but confusion and injustice
by bringing about the anomalous and grossly' unfair result that one kind of personal property cannot, for the
purpose of imposing a transfer tax; be within the jurisdiction of more than one state at the same time, while inother kind, quite as much within the protecting reach
of the Fourteenth Amendment,. may be, at the same
moment, within the taxable jurisdiction of as many as
four states, and by each subjected to a tax upon its trans.fer by death, an event which takes place, and in the nature of things can take pkce, in one of the states only.
A transfer from the dead to the living of any specific
property is. an event single in character and is effected
under the laws, and occurs within the limits, of a particular state; and it is unreasonable, and incompatible,
with a sound construction of the due process of law clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment, to hold that jurisdiction
to tax that event may be distributed among a number of
states.
It is true, there are such differences between bonds-and
stocks as might juistify their being placed in separate
categories for some purposes. But, plainly, they may not
be so placed for the purpose of subjecting a transfer by.
death of-the former to a tax by one state only, and a
similar transfer of the latter to a tax by two or more states.
Both are intangibles and both generally have been recognized as resting in contract, or, technically, as "choses in
action." Hawley v. Malden, 232 U. S. 1, 12; Blodgett v.
Silberman,,277 U. S. 1, 14. The reciprocal inheritance
statutes now in force in a preponderating number of the

-328

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.Opinion of the-Court.

28U.S,

states of the Union make no distinction between the vario9s.classes of intangible personal property. The New
York statute, for example, under that term includes
4".depqsits in banks, mortgages, debts, receivables; shares
61 -tock,_ bonds, notes, credits, evidences of an interest in
property, evidences of debt and choses in action generally.",. Genl. L. N. Y., 1930, c. .710,§ 1. This impressive
recognition of the substantial identity of the enumerated
-intangibles, for:purposes. df death taxation, is entitled to
.weight,-.
A distinction, between bonds and stocks for the essen.tially practical purposes of taxation is more fanciful than
real. Certainly, for such purposes, the differences are not
greater, than the differences. between tangible and intangible property, or between -bonds and credits. When
-thingsso dissimilai as bonds and household furniture may
not be subjected to contraryirules in respect of the number
of states which may tax them, there is a manifest incongruity in declaring that bonds and, stocks, possessing, for
,the most part, the same or like characteristics, may be
subjected to contrary rules in that regard..
- We conclude that shares of stock, like the other-intangibles, constitutionally can be subjected to a death transfer tax by one state only.
The question remains: In which state, among two or
,more claiming the power to impose the tax, does the taxable event occur? In the case of tangible personalty, the
olution is simple: the transfer, that is, the taxable event,
,occurs in that state where the property has an actual
situs, and it is taxable- there and not elsewhere. In the
case of .intangibles, the problemJ,inot so readily solved,
ince intangibles ordinarily have no actual situs. But it
.must be-solved iiidess gross discrimination between the
two .classes of property is to besanctioned; and this court
hs solved it in respect of the intangibles heretofore dealt
with by applying the maxim mobilia"sequunturpersonam.

FIRST NATIOI
312

L BANK'v. MAINE.

1

320,

Opimon of the Court.

Farmers Loan, Co. v Minnesota, supra, at- pp. 211-212;
Carolina
BMldwin v Missouri, supra, Beidler v South
11
Tax Comm., -supra.

This ancient'naxmm had its -originwhen personal property consisted, in the marn, of articles appertainiiag-to the
person of the owner, such asgold, silver, jewebls ind apparel, and, less immediately, animals and-products of the
farm and shop. Such propdrty was usually ufider the
direct supervision of the owner and'-was often carried
about by him on his journeys. Under these circumstances, the maxim furnished-the natural and reasonable
rule. -In modern times, due to the vast increase in th'e
extent and' variety of tangible personal property -not immediately connected-with the person of the owner,,the
rule has gradually yielded to the law of the place where,
the property is kept and used. Pullman's-Car Co. v.
Pennsylvama, 141 U S. 18, 22; Eidman v Martinez, 184
U S. 578, 581, Union Transit Co. v Kentucky, supra,
206. But in respect of intangible property, the rule is
still convenient and useful, if not always necessary; and
at has been adhered to as peculiarly applicable to that
class of property Blodgett v Silberman, supra, 9-10;
FarmersLoan Co. v. Minnesota,supra,211, Un.on Transit Co. v Kentucky, supra, 206.
The considerations which justify, the application of the
fiction embodied in the maxin to death transfer taxes
inposed in respect of bonds, certificates .of indebtedness,
notes, credits and bank deposits, apply, with substantially the same force, in respect of corporate shares of
stock. And since death duties rest upon the power::of
the state imposing them to,.control the privilege of suecession, the reasons which sanction the selection of ihe
dorimc'.liary state in the various cases first named, sanction
the same selection in the case last named. In each case,
there is wanting, on the part of a state other than that of
the domicile, any real taxable relationship to the event
vhich is the subject -of the tax. Ownership of shares by

. 30

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion'of the Court.

284 ".S:

the stockholder and ownership of the capital by the cor-poration are not identical. The former is an individual interest giving the stockholder a right to a proportional part
of the dividends.and the effects of the corporation when dissolved, after payment of its debts. The Delaware Railroad Tax, 18 Wall. 206, 229-230; RhodeIsland Trust
Co. v. Doughton, 270 U. S. 69, 81; Eisner v. Macomber, 252 U. S.-189, 213-214. And this interest is an
incorporeal property right which. attaches to the per8on of the owner in the state of his domicile: .The
fact that the, property of the corporation is situated
-in another state affords no ground for the imposition, by
that state, of a death tax upon the transfer-of the stock.
Rhode Island Trust Co. v. Doughton, supra. And we
are unable to find in. the further fact of incorporation
under the laws of such state, adequate reasoh for a different conclusion.
Undoubtedly, the state of incorporation may tax the
transfer of the stock of a nonmesident decedent, and the
issue of a new certificate to take Ithe place of the old,
under the power generally to impose taxes of that character. But; plainly, such a tax is not a death duty which
flows from the power to control the succession; it is a
stock transfer tax which flows from the power of the state.
to control. and condition the operations of the corporatio i'which it. creates. A formal transfer of the stock.
upon. the books of the corporation, and the issue of new
certificates,; bear a relation to the succession differing
little, if at all, in substantial effect from that borne by
the registration .ofthe state bonds, involved in the Farmers Loan Company case, or the necessity of invoking the
law of Missouri in respect of notes secured on Missouri
lands, 'involved in the Baldwin case. Practical considerations of wisdom, cGnrenience and justice alike dictate the desirability of a uniform general rule confining
the jurisdiction to impose death transfer taxes as to in-

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. MAINE.
312

331

STOe, J., dissenting.

tangibles to the state of the domicile; and these considerations are greatly fortified by the fact that a large majority of the states have adopted that rule by their reciprocal inheritance tax statutes. In some states, indeed, the rule has been declared independently of such
reciprocal statutes. The requirements of due process of
law accord with this view.
We do not overlook the possibility that shares-of stock,
as well as other intangibles, may be so used in a. state
other than that of the owner's doinicile as to give them a
situs analogous to the actual situs of tangible personal
property. See Farmers Loan Company case, supra,at p'
213. That question heretofore -has been reserved, and it
still is reserved to be disposed of when, if ever, it propuly shall be presented for our consideration.
We hold that the exaction of the tax here-assailed was
not within the power of the state under the Fourteenth
Amendment; and, accordingly, the judgment below must
be reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUsTIC, SToE,

dissenting.

Recognizing that responsibility must rest primarily on
those who undertake to blaze a new path in the law, to say
how far it shall go, and notwithstafading the decisions of
this Court in Safe Deposit & Trust Co. v. Virginia, 280
U. S. 83; Farmers Loan & Trust Co. v. Minnesota, 280
U. S. 204; Baldwin v. Missouri, 281 U. S. 586; Beidler v.
South CarolinaTax Comm., 282 U. S. 1, I am not persuaded -that either logic, expediency, or generalizations
about the undesirability of double taxation justify our
adding, to the cases recently overruled, the long list of
those which, without a dissenting voice,: have supported
taxation like'the present. No decision of this Cornt requires that result.

See, Baldvi,! v.Missouri.supra . 596.

832

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
STomE, J., dissenting.

284 U.S.'

Such want of logic as there may be in taxing the transfer
-6f stock of a nonresident at the home of the corporation
results from ascribing a situs to the shareholder's intangible interests which, because of their very want of 'physical
characteristics, can have no situs, and again in saying that
-therights, powers, and privileges incident to stock ownership and transfer which are actually enjoyed in two taxing
jurisdictions, have situs in one and'not in the other. Situs
.of an intangible, for taxing purposes, as-the decisions of
this Court, including the present one, abundantly demonstrate, is not a dominating reality, but a convenient fiction
which may be judicially employed or discarded, according
to the result desired.
The decedent, if we disregard the fiction and its attendant maxims, acquired -rights and privileges with respect
to a corporation created by .Maine and under its control.
The nature and extent of his interest are' defined by the
laws of Maine, and his power to secure the complete transfer of it is dependent upon them. These characteristics
of corporate shares, distinguishing them in se-eral respects from unsecured obligations to pay money, have
long been explicitly recognized by this Court as the source
of state power to tax nonresident stockholders and as
sufficient ground for its. exercise.' See Frick v. Pennsylvania, 268 U. S.473, 497; Baker v. Baker, Eees & Co.,
242 U. S. 394, 401; Hawley v. Malen, 232 U. S. 1, '12;
Rhode Island Hospital Trust Co. v. Doughton, 270 U. S.
69,81. See also Corry v. Baltimore, 196.3. 8.466. Compare Citizens NationalBank v. Durr,257 U. S. 99; Cream.
of Wheat Co. v. Grand Forks, 253 U.S. 325. This Court
has recently said, in Frick v. Pennsylvani, supra
[p. 497-]:
"The. decedent owned many stocks in corporations of
States, other than Pennsylvania, which, subjected their
transfer on death to a tax and prescribed means of en,
forcement which practically gave those States the status,

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. MAINE.
312

-

STONE,

333

J., dissenting.

of lienors in possession. -As those States. had created
the corporations- issuing the stocks, they had power to
impose the tax and to enfo rce it by such-means, irrespective. of the decedent's domicile and the actual situs of
the stock certificates. Pennsylvania's jurisdicti6n -over
the stocks necessarily was subordinate to that 'power.
Therefore to tring them into the administrati6n in that
State it was essential that the taxbe paid.... We think
it plain that such value as the stocks ,had-in excess of
the tax is ali that could be iegarded as within the range
of Pennsylvania's taxing power."
The withdrawal from appellee of authority to impose
the present' tax, in'terms which would sweep away all
power to impose any form of tax with respect to the
shares of. a domestic corporation if owned -by nonresideiits, would seem to be a far greater departure from
sound and accepted principles, and one having far more
serious consequences, than would the disregard of wholly
artificial notions of the situs of intangibles.
The present tax is not double in the sense that it is
added to that imposed by-Massachusetfs, since the Maine
statute directs thai the latter be deducted from the former. But, as the. stockholder could secure complete protection and effect a complete transfer of his interest only
by.invoking the laws of both states, I am aware of no
principle of constitutional interpretation which would enable us to say that taxation by both states, reaching the.
same economic interest -with respect to which he has
sought and secured the benefits of the laws of both, is-so
arbitrary or oppressive as to merit condemnation as a
denial of due process of law. Only by recourse to a form
'of words-saying that there is no taxable subject within
the state, by reason of the fictitious attribution to the
intangible interest -of the stockholder of a location elsewhere,-is it-possible to stigmatie the tax as arbitrary.
-

334

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
SToN,

J., dissenting.

24 U.S.

Affirmance of this judgment involves no declaration
that the tax may be imposed by three or more states instead of two, and, under the decisions of this Court, there
is no ground for supposing that it could be. See Rhode
Island Trust Co. v. Doughton;270 U. S. 69. Even if it be
assumed that some protection from multiple, taxation,
which the Constitution has failed to provide, is desirable,
and that this Court is free to supply it, that result would
seem more likely to be attained, without injustice to the
stateqs, by familiar types of reciprocal state legislation,
than by stretching the due process-clause to cover this case.
See 28 Columbia L. Rev. 806; 43 Harvard L. Rev, 641.
We can have no assurance that resort to. the Fourteenth
Amendment, as the ill-adapted instrument of such a reform, will not create more difficulties and injustices'than
it will remove See 30 Columbia L. Rev. 405-406. The present denial to Maine of power to tax transfers
of shares of a nonresident stockholder in its own corppration, in the face of the now accepted doctrine that a
transfer of his chattels located there and equally under its
control, Frick v. Pennsylvania,-supra,and that his rights
as cestui que trust in a trust of property within the state,
Safe Deposit & Trust Co.'v. Virginia,supra,may be taxed
there and not elsewhere, makes no such harmonious addition to a logical pattern of state taxing power as would
warrant overturning an established system of taxation.
The capital .qbjection to it is that the due process clause
is made the basis for withholding from a state the power
to tax interests subject to its control and benefited by its
laws;. such control and benefit are together the ultimate
and indubitable justification of all taxation:
I think the judgment should be affirmed.
MR. JusnicE, HOLMES and MR. JusTcE BRA-DEIs concur
in this opiion.

