352

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

284 U.S

MATSON NAVIGATION CO. v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF- CIMMS.

No. 137.

Argued December 9, 1931.--Decided January 4, 1932.

1. Section 154 of the Judicial Code, which forbids prosecution in the
Court of Claims of any claim for which suit-is ",pending in'any
other court.. aginst any person who, at the time wheit the
-cause of--action.. arose, was, in respect thereto, acting...
under. the authority of the United States," -is inappicble'where the other suit is against the -United 'States, and not. against its
agent. P. 355.:2. Where the words of a statute are plamu, they~may not be -added
to or altered,'in construction, to effect a purpose not apparent on
its face or from its legislative'history. P. 356:
3: Under the Suits in Admiralty Act, §§ 1 and 2, jurisdiction of mari-,
time causes of action against the United States, rising out'.of the
operition -of merctbnt vessels for it, i vested exclusively n the

dirict courts, I.
4. After vessels had been requisitioned by the Shipping Board under
. the Act of June 15, 1917, the Board and the owner, entered into
a charter contract, providing that the vessels shouldyemain in the
-service of- the United' States, tobe employed as it might determine,
• •but that the owner should operate them.furnish crew and equipmenit, and pay for provisions, wages, etq. The United States
agreed' to pay the owner for certain expefises of maintenance
and operation, and ship hire at a rate established by the Board for
vessels oflike description, with liberty in the owner to terminate
the charter if the rate should be less *thana specified minimum. ItMagreed also to reimburse the owner for any proper -increases in
wages over a specified- standard. Held:
(1) That the making of the contract worked an abandonment
of the- requisition and a release of.the'owner's right to jusE-compensation under. the Act of 1917; and that a cause - of action of
the owner based -on the contract provision for recovery of incieased
wage payments could -not be entertained by the Court of Claimis,.
under Jud. Code § 145, as a claim for just compensation. P. 357.
(2) That the contract was maritime and the cause of action
within the admiralty jurisdiction. P. 358.
5-. A claimant in the Court of Claims has the hurden of allegingand"
proving a cause of action within its jurisdiction. P. 359."

t MATSON

352

NAVIGATION CO. v. U. S.

353

Opinion of the Court.

6. As the present suit is against the United States upon a maritime
-cause of action growing out of the operation of ships -for the'
Government, the Court of Claims is without jurisdiction if the
vessels in question were operated as merchant vessels; and as the
'petition does not, allege that they were otherwise operated, it
fails to state' a cause of action within the jurisdiction of that
court. P. 359.
7. Want "of jurisdiction of the subject matter may be considered,
and appropriate judgment given, at any stage of the proceedings,
either here or-below. Id. .
8. Section 2 of the Merchant Marine Act of June 5, 1 _,0, which
repealed the Emergency Shipping Fund Provisions of. the Act of
June 15, 1917, and imposed upon the Shipping'Board the duty
of carrying .out contracts and making settlements, but preserved
to every suitor "the same right to sue the United States as he
would have had if tile decision had been 'made by the President
'of the United States under the acts hereby repealed," did not
purport to enlarge existing remedies or establish a new procedure
for the enforcement of maritime obligations which, like the present,
are'embraced within the Suits in Admiralty Act. P. 359.
72 Ct. Cls. 210, alrmed.,

CERRwoRA=, .pOSt,p.' 600, to review a judgment dismissing a claim for want-of jurisdiction.
Mr. Gregory A. Harrison,,with whom Messrs. Herman
PhIdeger,Maurice E. Harrison,and William G. Feely were
on the'brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Claude R. Branch, with whom Solicitor General
Thacher, Assistant Attorney General Rugg, and Mr. H.
Brian Hollandwere on the brief, for the United States.

MI. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case is here on certiorari, to review a judgment of
the Court of 'Claims dismissing the petition for want of
jurisdiction. 72 Ct. Cls. 210:
The suit was brought upon a; petitioii which alleged.
facts as follows: On October 15, 1917, the United States
Shipping Board, under the Urgent Deficiencies Appropri• 51 °-3 --- 2

354

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U.S.

ation Act of Tune 15, 1917, c. 29, 40 Stat. 182, 183, and an
Executive Order promulgated by the President on July
11, 1917, requisitioned for use by the United States seven
merchant vessels then owned and operated by petitioner.
On December 29, 1917, the Government, acting through
the Shipping Board, entered into a contract for the operation of each ship by petitioner under a" requisition charter," the form of. whicb., was attached. It was agreed
that petitioner "in consideration of the compensation
provided [by the requisition charter] and the other obligations assumed by the United States ... accepts this
Requisition Charter in full satisfaction of any and all
'claims he has or may have against the United States aris,mg out of the Requisition, and accepts the compensation
herein provided for as the just compensation required by
'
law . .. .
(The attached,form contained numerous clauses dealing
with matters commonly covered by time charters. It
prqvided that the vessel should remain in the service of
the United States, to be employed as it might determine,
but that petitioner should operate the vessel, furnish
drew and equipment, and pay for provisions, wages, ship-^
ping fees, and supplies. The United States agreed to pay
topetitioner, in addition to .certain enumerated expenses
of 'rnaintenance and operation of the vessel, ship hire at
the monthly rate established by the Shipping Board for
vessels of like description, but with provision for terminating the charter by petitioner if the rate should be less
than a specified minimum. By the tenth- clause of the
chArter, with which we are chiefly concerned the Government agreed to reimburse petitioner .'for any proper
increases in wages and bonuses over the standard prevail-'
ing 1 August, 1917, for master, officers, and crew ....
"
. Acting under the charters, petitioner from time to time
-redited the Government on its books with sums received
)n its account, and charged it with items due petitionhv

MATSON NAVIGATION CO. v. U. S.
352

Opinion of the Cour.

incliiding payments of increased wages and bonuses. On
October 18, 1926, petitioner entered into a second'agreement with the Government, accepting a specified, amount
in full satisfaction- of all its demands except one for the
sum of $49,373.11, claimed under Clause -Tenth, for the
recovery of Which the present suit was br'ought.
The Court of Claims made a special finding that the
petitioner, aft6r the petition was filed, had brought separate suits against the United States in the District Court
of the United States for Northern California,, to recover
the amounts alleged to have been paid by it as increased
wages and bonuses, and "granted the-Government's motion to dismiss on the sole ground that the pendency of
the suits in the District Court deprived it of jurisdiction
to proceed with the cause by virtue of § 154 of. the Judicial Code, c. 231, 36 Stat. 1087, 1138. This section
forbids prosecution in the Court of Claims of any claim
for which suit is " pending in any 6ther court... against
any person who, at the time when the cause of action
... arose, was, in respect thereto, acting... under the
authority'of the Ufnited States."
Petitioner insists that the jurisdiction of the Court of
Claims is unaffected by the suits pending in .the District
Court, since § 154 denies jurisdiction to the Court of
Claims onlr when an agent of the United States is sued
simultaneously in another court; here, the United States
is the defendant. The Government does not press the
contention upheld by the Court of Claims, that its jurisdiction was ousted by the pendency of the petitioner's
suits in the District Court. Although they were not
within the language of the section, they were nevertheless regarded as within its assumed purpose to prevent
the prosecution at the same time of two suits against the
Government for the same cause of action. But the de.clared purpose of the section (originally enacted, as § 8
of the Act of June 25, 1868, 15 Stat. 77, c.: 71) was only

356

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U:S.

to require, an election between a suit in the Court of
Claims and one brought in another court against an agent
of the ,Government, in which the judgment would not be
res adjudicatain the suit pending in the Court of Claims.
(Statement of Senator Edmunds, Chairman of the Judiciary Committee, in reporting the bill to the Senate,
Cong. Globe, 40th-Cong., 2nd Sess., 1868, p. 2769). See
Sage v. United States, 250 U. S. 33, 37; and compare'
Southern Pacific R. Co" v. United States, 168 U. S. 1, 48,
49, holding otherwise as to a judgment obtained in a-suit
brought against the United States in a District Court.'
As the words of 'thesection are plain, we are not at liberty
to add to or alter them to effect a purpose which does not
appea on its face or from its legislative history. Corona
Coal Co..v. United States; 263 U. S.537, 540..
In supporting the judgment of dismissal below, 'the
Governmeit reliqs on the Suits in Admiralty Act of
March 9, 1920, c. 95- 41 Stat. 525, 526, 527, 528, by which,
it is contended, jurisdiction over the asserted cause of
action -is vested exclusively in courts of 'admiralty. Section 1 of the Suits in Admiralty Act forbids the arrest or
seizure of vessels .owned or operated by or for the. United
States. Section 2 provides that where a proceeding in
admiralty could be maintained, if at the time of the
commendement of the action such vessel were privately
owned or operated, "a libel in personarm may be brought
against the United States . . provided that such vessel is employed as a merchant vessel.' .," and that
"such suits shall be brought in the district court of the
United States . . ."
Under these sections, jurisdiction of maritime causes
of action against the United States, arising out of the.
operation of merchant, vessels for it, is vested e~clusively
in the district courts. Johnson v. U. S. Shipping Board
Emergency Fleet Corporation,280 U. S. 320; U. S. Shipping Board Emergency Fleet Corporationv. Rosenberg

MATSON NAVIGATION CO. v. U. S.'
352

351'

Opinion of the Court.

Bros. & Co., 276 U. S. 202.

The language of § 2 is gen-

eral,'embracing- suits on maritime causes of action by
owners; as well as by third. persons injured 13y the operation for the Government - of merchant vessels. See
Eastern Transportation Cb. v. United States, 272 U. S.'
675, 689 et seq.
Petitioner argues, that the Suits in Admiralty Act is
not applicable, because the cause of action here alleged
is non-maritime in character; it cbntends that the socalled requisition charter is not a time charter, but a
.mere agreement for just compensati6n for the requisitioned ships, which -may be recovered in the Court of
Claims. *But we think the cause of action is maritime,
arising out of the express contract for the operation of
vessels for the United States, and is not shown to be
within the jurisdiction of the court below:
It is true that under § 145 of the Judicial Code, c. 231,
36 Stat. 1087, 1136, the Court of Claims has jurisdiction
of claims for just compensation for property requisitioned
by the United States, but such is not the cause of.action
alleged. Subdivision (e) of,.the Emergency Shipping
Fund provisions of the Urgent Deficiencies Appropriation Act of June 15, 1917, authorized the requisition of
the-title or possession of ships "for use or operation by
the United States." It required just compensation for
requisitioned ships to be fixed by the President, and
provided, in case the amount was unsatisfactory to the
person entitled to compensation, that 75% of it should
be paid and that suit might be brought against the United
States to recover such further amount as, with that already paid, would make up just compensation.
I But upon seizure of the petitioner's vessels, this procedure was abandoned. By the agreement with the Shipping Board, the .requisition charter was substituted for
petitioner's right to receive just compensation under the
Constitution and the statute. The substituted contract

358

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U.S.

conferred new and different rights upon petitioner and
subjected it to new obligations, n6t flowing from the requisition. The requisition of the ships imposed no duty on
petitioner to operate them or to pay expenses of operatfon
and maintenanbe after their seizure. That duty and ietitioner's right to compensation for the performance of it
and its right to be reimbursed for increased costs of operation, one of which is the subject of the present suit, arose
from the contract alone. Such compensation and reimbursement, are not included in just compensation for the
requisition, even though waiver of the constitutional right
was part consideration for the obligation to pay for the
operation of the ships. The stipulated monthly payments
to petitioner for ship hire were not measured by the just
compensation which petitioner would otherwise have been
entitled to receive and might, in fact, be either more or
less. The effect of the agreement was to .release petitioner's rights, growing out of the requisition, and to define the rights of the parties with respect to the use of
petitioner's ships and the compensation for them, as effectively and completely and with the same consequences as
though no requisition had ever been made..
We need not examine the requisition charter with, meticulous care to see whether it is in- all respects identical
with the usual charter party, which, as petitioner concedes, is maritime. Morewood v. Enequist, 23 How. 491.
It is enough that the right asserted is uppn express contract with the shipowner for its operation of the ship for
the Government, and stipulates .compensation both for
use of the ship and for service rendered and expense incurred in its operation and maintenance, all of which
undertakings are characteristically within the- admiralty
jurisdiction. Compare New Jersey Steam Navigation Co.
v. Merchants' Bank, 6 How. 344, 392; The Thomas Jefferson, 10 Wheat. 428, 429; The Eddy, 5 Wall. 481, 494; The
General Smith, 4 Wheat. 438; James Shewan & Sons v.

MATSON NAVIGATION CO. v. U. S.
352

Opinion of the Court.

United States, 266 U. S. 108; The Arlyn ATelson, 243 Fed.,
415; 3 Benedict, Admiralty (5th ed.) 82-96.
Petitioner also asserts that the present cause.of action
is not maintainable under the Suits in Admiralty Act
because it does not appear that it arose out of the operation of the ships as merchant vessels. The Government
argues that it is inferable from certain allegations in the
petition, read in the light of the requisition charter, that
the vessels were so used; but we do not stop to consider
the argument. The -burden rested. upon petitioner to
allege and prove a cause of action within the jurisdictioi
of the Court of Claims. Johnson v. United States, 160
U. S. 546, 552-553; Merritt v.6 United States, 267 U. S.
338; Contzen v. United States, 179 U. S.191, 192. As the
suit is against the United States upon a maritime cause
of action growing out of the operation of ships for the
Government, the Court of Claims is without jurisdiction
if the vessels in question were operated as merchant vessels, and as the petition does not allege that they were
otherwise operated, it fails to.state a cause of action within
the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims. As the want of
jurisdiction is of the subject matter, it may be considered,
and appropriate judgment given, at any stage of the proceedings, either here or below. Hilton v. Dickinson; 108
U. S. 165, 168; Gainesville v. Brown-Crummer Co., 277
U. S.54, 59. -See Grace v. Americanm Central Ins. Co., 109
U. S.278, 283-284; B6rs v. Preston,111 U. S.252, 255.
Section 2 of the Merchant Marine Act of June 5, 1920,
c. 250, 41 Stat. 988, 989, did not, as petitioner contends,
restore to the Court of Claims the jurisdiction previously
withdrawn from it by the Suits in Admiralty Act. It
repealed the Emergency Shipping Fund provisions of the
Act of June15,1917, and imposed upon the Shipping Board
the duty of carrying out all contrgcts lawfully entered into
under the repealed Act, and of settling "all matters aris-

360

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

284-U.S.

ing out of or incident to .the exercise by or through. the
President of 'any of -the powers or duties conferred or
imposed upon the President." It.preserved to every suitor
"the same right to sue the United States as he would
'have had if the decision had been made by the President
of the United States under The acts hereby repealed."
Akssunmmg, without'deciding, that the present'claim is one
which the Board was authorized to settle, we think it clear
that the Act did not purport to enlarge existing remedies
or establish a.new procedure for the enforcement of maritimpe obligations which, like the present, axe embraced
Within the Suits in Admiralty Act.
. We have considered; but find it unnecessary to discuss,
other less substantial grounds advanced for denying the
applicability of the Suits in Admiralty A!t. The judgment will be afirmed, Put without prejudice to an application by the petitioner' to the court below, if so advised,
for leave to amend the petition.

Affirmed.
TRANSIT COMMISSION

ET A.

v. UNITED STATES

ET-AL.
"APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 498. Argued November 24, 25, 1931.-Decided January 4, 1932.
1. In ascertaining the public eqnvenience and necessity with respect
to the abandonment of a branch line by a-railroad company engaged in intrastate and interstate commerce, the Interstate Commerce Commission must weigh the benefit to accrue to iiiterstate
commerce against the injury 0o intrastate coinmerce. P. 367.
2. Where thxe State has ordered the removal of grade crossings on a
branch line which the company seeks to abandon, the Commission
may properly take into consideration the magnitude of the-requi4red
outlay as compared with the value of the branch, and the resulting
effect on the compan:?s revenue. 1R. 368.

