OCTOBER TERVI,

1931.

Opinibn of the Court.

284 U. S.

ATCHISO1N, 'OPEKA & SANTA FE RY. CO. v.
SAXON, ANCILLARY ADMINISTRATOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TEXAS.

No. 291.

Argued January 8, 1932.-Decided February 15, 1932.

1. In order to sustain a claim under the Federal Employers' Liability
Act, the plaintiff must in some adequate way establish negligence
of the carrier and causal connection between the negligence and the
I
injury. P. 459.
2. 'Circumstances in this case held insufficient to prove that the falling
of a brakeman under a train was caused by stumbling in a depression in a- pathway skirting the track, upon, which , he was seen
running.
36 S. W. (2d) 686; 38 id. 775, reversed.

CERTIORARI * to review a. judgment sustaining'a recovery under the Federal Employers' Liability Act.
Mr. A. H. Culwell, with whom Messrs. E. E. Mclnnis
and Win. H. Burges were on the brief, -forpetitioner.
Mr. Winbourn Pearce for respondent.,,
MR. JUSTICE McREYNoLDs delivered the opinion of the

Court.
While employed as head brakeman by' petitioner Railway Company and engaged in interstate commerce, J. W.
Moore sustained fatal. injuries at a New Mexico station.
His personal representative obtained a judgment for damages, under tie Federal Employers' Liability Act, in a
Texas court.
The Court of Civil Appeals at El Paso reversed this,
holding that the evidence failed to show the accident
resulted from the carrier's negligence.
The Supreme
Court granted a writ of error, reversed the Court of Civil
See table of cases reported in this volume.

ATCHISON, ETC. RY.v. SAXON.
458

459

Opinion of :the Court.

Appeals and affirmed the original judgment. It concluded
that, viewing all-the evidence, there was enough to show
negligence and causal connection between this and the*.
death.
The matter is here by certiorari. The Railway sets up
a claim under the federal:statute which it has not heretofore had opportunity to submit for, adjudication to any
federal tribunal. The cause is one of a peculiar class
where we have frequently been obliged to give special
consideration to the facts in order to protect interstate
carriers against unwarranted judgments and enforce observance of the Liability Act as here interpreted.
Examination of'the record convinces us that the Court
of Civil Appeals reached-the proper conclusion. We can
find no evidence from which it may be properly concluded
that Moore's tragic death was the result of negligence by
the Railway Company. As often pointed out, one who
claims undei the Federal Act must in some.adequate way
establish negligence and causal connection between this
and the injury. -New York Central R. Co. v. Ambrose,
280 U. S., 486; Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. v. Toops,
281 U. S. 351, 354.
In the language of the Supreme Court the respondent
recovered in the trial court on the theory that the deceased, while in the discharge of his duties as a brakeman,
was running along by the side of the track of the Railway
Company and while doing so with the purpose and intent
of boarding one of the cars in the train, he stepped in or
upon some soft area or hole in his pathway, and was
thereby caused to fall and be run over and killed."
Nobody saw the accident; no one can say with fair
certainty how it occurred. Consistently with the facts
disclosed, it might have happened in one of. several ways
and without causal negligence by the petitioner. When
last seen the deceased was running westwardly by the
side of the train, then moving ii; that directio;. Across

460

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
*Syllabus.

284 U. S.

the pathway commonly used by trainmen, there was a
slight depression--estimated to be four or five, or possibly six or eight, feet long and three feet wide-filled
with, small rock screenings. It was softer than other
portions of the way-yielded to the foot. Eight or ten
feet west of this witnesses found blood upon the rail.
Two hours after the accident a fourteen year old boy
discovered the mark of a shoe in the screenings. He said
it "was deeper than the footprint that I made, it looked
as though somebody that was heavy or running had
stepped in it. The front part of the foot was deepest."
Tlere is no, evidence-nothing but conjecture-to show
thaf the deceased made this impression; and, even if he
did,. we cannot assume that by stepping' there he was
made to stumble and fall under the moving train.
What occasioned this distressing accident can only be
surmised. It was necessary to show causal negligence in
Order to establish the respondent's right to recover. The
evidence fails to meet this requirement.
The judgment below must, be reversed and the cause
remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with
this opinion..
Reversed.
MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILROAD CO. v. DAVID,
ADMINISTRATRIX.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSOURI.

No. 365. Argued January 20, 1932.-Decided February 15, 1932.
1. In actions under the Federal Employers' Liability Act; assumption
of risk is a defense. P. 462.
2. A railway company employed an experienced guard to help protect

its freight trains against 'anticipated depredations by murderous
gangs of robbers. He was fully armed* and fully apprised of the
danger. It also employed a member of one of the gangs to give
the. company advance information of projected robberies. In a

