BERGHOLM v. PEORIA LIFE INS. CO.

489

Opinion of the Court.

BERGHOLM

ET A.

v. PEORIA LIFE INS. CO.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THEM
FIFT: CIRCUIT.
No. 297.

Argued January 18, 1932.--Decided February 15, 1932.

1. Contracts of life insurance, like other contracts, must be construed
according to the terms that the parties have used, to be taken and
understood, in the absence of ambiguity, in their plain, ordinary
and popular sense. P. 492.
2. A condition in a policy of life insurance that the policy shall cease
if the stipulated premium shall not 1e paid on or before the day
fixed is of the very essence and substance of the contract. Id.
3. Clauses in a policy by which the company undertook to pay the
premiums if the insured were totally and permanently disabled, but
only upon receipt by it of proof of such disability and only the
premiums becoming due after such receipt, held unambiguous and
not to be construed, to save the policy from a lapse, as an agreement to pay premiums accruing after the disability occurred but
before the company received proof of it. P. 491.

50 F. (2d) 67, affirmed.
CERTIORARI * to review a judgment reversing a recovery
in an action upon a life insurance policy.

Mr. E. L. Klett, with whom Mr., Tom Connally was on
the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. J. L Kilpatrick,with whom Mr. J. B. Wolfnbarger
was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JuSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is an action brought to recover the. sum of $5,000
life insurance and specified disability benefits upon a
policy issued by the respondent to Carl Oscar Bergholm
on March 13, 1926. Judgment upon a verdict for peti*

See table of cases reported in this volume.

4b6"

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U. S.

tioners in the , ial court was reversed by the court of
appeals. 50 F. (2d) 67. We granted certiorari because
of a supposed conflict with Minnesota Mut. Life Ins. Co.
v. Marshall, 29 F. (2d) 977.
Beginning with February 27, 1927, premiums were to
be paid quarterly, with a. grace period of one month
from any due date, during which period the policy was
to continue in full force. In case of total and permanent
disablement there was a provision for payment of a
monthly income for life of one per cent. of the amount
of the principal sum. The policy expressly provided that
"if any premium is not paid on the date when due, this
policy shall cease and determine, except as hereinafter
provided." The "income disability" clause, which follows this language, provides:
"Upon receipt by the Company of satisfactory proof
that the Insured is totally and permanently disabled as
hereinafter defined the Company will
"1. Pay for the Insured all premiums becoming due
hereon after the receipt of such proof and during the continuance of the total and permanent disability of the Insured and will also
"2. Pay to the Insured a Monthly Income for life of
1% of this Policy; The first payment of such income to
be paid immediately upon-receipt of such proof .
"3. . . . To entitle the Insured to the above Total and
Permanent Disability Benefits this policy at the time of
making claim for such benefits must be in full force and
all premiums becoming due prior to the time of making
claim must have been duly paid . . ."
The insured died on April 18, 1929. Judgment was
.sought for disability benefits from December 1, 1927, to
April 1, 1929, at the rate of $50 per month, with interest.
The last premium paid was due on May 27, 1927. The
next, allowing a month's period of grace, should have been
paid not later than September 27, 1927. Neither that nor

3ERGHOLM v. PEORIA LIFE INS. CO.
489

Opinion of the Court.

any subsequent premium was ever paid. Long prior to
the death of the insured, the policy, therefore, had lapsed,
unless saved by the terms of the disability clause above
quoted. There is evidence in the record from which it
reasonably may be found that the insured was totally and
permanently disabled from a time before the premiums
first became in arrears, and that this condition continued
until his death; but no proof thereof was furnished to
the company.
The petitioners, nevertheless, contend that this is
enough to bring into effect the promise of the company to
pay the premiums which became due after the disabilhly
began. In support of this contention, Minnesota Mut.
Life Ins. Co: v. Marshall, supra, is cited. The pertinent
provisions of the policy there, however, differ from those
found in the policy here under consideration. There the
policy provided that if the insured, while the policy is in
force and before default in payment of premiums, "shall
become totally and permanently disabled . . . and shall
furnish satisfactory proof thereof, the Company will waive
the payment of premiums thereafter becoming due," and
that "upon the receipt of due proof of total and permanent disabilities . . . the Company will waive the payment of all premiums thereafter becoming due."- The
court held that the waiver took effect at the time of the
disability, and did not depend upon the time when proof
thereof was furnished.
We do not need to controvert this construction of the
words quoted, or question the soundness of the view of
the court that the existence of the disability before the
premium became in arrears, standing alone, was enough
to create the waiver. In that view, the obligation to furnish proof was no part of the condition precedent to the
waiver; but such proof might be furnished within a reasonable time thereafter. Here the obligation of the company does not rest upon t!w, P--istnce of thefdisallility;

492

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U. S.

but it is the receipt by the company of proof of the disability which is definitely made a condition precedent to an
assumption by it of payment of the premiums becoming
due after the receipt of such proof. The provision to that
effect is wholly free from the ambiguity which the court
thought existed in the Marshall policy. Compare B rams
v. New York Life Ins; Co., 299 Pa. 11, 14; 148 Atl. 855.
It is true that where the terms of a policy are of doubtful
meaning, that construction most favorable to the insured
will be adopted. Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Hurni Co., 263
U. S. 167, 174; Stipcich v. Insurance Co., 277 U. S. 311,
322. This canon of construction is both reasonable and
just, since the words of the policy are chosen by the insurance company; but it furnishes no warrant for avoiding
hard consequences by importing into a contract an ambiguity which otherwise would not exist, or, under the guise
of construction, by forcing from plain words unusual and
unnatural meanings.
Contracts of Insurance, like other contracts, must be
construed according to the terms which the parties have
used, to be taken and understood, in the absence of ambiguity, in their .plain, ordinary and popular sense. Imperial Fire Ins. Co. v. Coos County, 151 U. S. 452, 462463. As long ago pointed out by this court, the condition in a policy of life insurance that the policy shall
cease ifthe stipulated premium shall not be paid on or
before the day fixed is of the very essence and substance
of the contract, against which even a court of equity
cannot grant relief. Klein v. Insurance Co.,,A04 U. S. 88,
91; New York Life Ins. Co. v. Statham, 93 .U.S. 24,30-31;
Pilot Life Ins. CO. v. Owen, 31 F. (2d) 862, 866. And
to discharge the insured from the legal consequences
of a failure to comply with an explicitly stipulated requirement of the policy, constituting. a condition precedent to the granting of such relief by the. insurer, would
be to vary the plain terms of a contract in utter disregard
of long-settled principles.
Judgment affirmed.

