6

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Per Curiam,

284U.S.

PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION OF INDIANA
AL. v. BATESVILLE TELEPHONE CO.

ET

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTHE CIRC1VIT.

No. 120. Jurisdictional statement submitted October' 12, 1931.
Decided Octobei 26, 1931.
-Appeal to -this'C6urt from a Circuit Court of Appeals is*limited'to
cases in which that court decided against the validity of a statute
of a State upon the ground of its being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties, or laws of the United States. In other cases review
by this Court, if it be had, must be pursuant to a writ 'of
certiorari, duly applied for and granted. Jud. Code, § 240, (b), (c).
Dismissed. For opinion bdow, see 46 R, (2d) 226.

Messrs. James M. Ogden and G.' W. Hufsmith for
appellants..
Messrs. Win. H. Thompson and Albert L. Rabb for
appellee.;.
Per &zNriam: This ,suit was brought to restrain the
enforcement of an order of the Public Service Commission of Indiana upon the grounds that the commission had
exceeded its authority and that the order violated the due
process clause and the equal protection clause of thi °
Fourteenth Amendment of the.Federal Constitution. The
District Court (a single judge sitting, as an interlocutory.
injunction was not sought, Stratton v. St. Louis, -S.:W.
Ry. Co., 282 U. S. 10, 15) dismissed the bill for want"of.
equity. The decree was reversed by the Circuit Court of
Ap eals,,which directed that the relief for which.the bill
prayed be granted. The sole ground of the decision of
the Circuit Court of Appeals was that the, Public Service
CommissXon had no jurisdiction under the law of the State
to make the order.

PUB. SERV. COMM. v. BATESVILLE TEL. CO..
6

7.

Per Curiam.

The statute governing appeals to this Court fromn the
Circuit Court of Appeals is § 240 of the Judicial Code as
amended by the Act of February 13, 1925 (c. 229, 43
Stat. 936, 938), which provides in paragraphs (b) and (c)
as follows:
"(b) Any case in -a Circuit C~urt of.Appeals where is
drawn in question the validity bf a statute of any State,
on the ground of its being repugnant to the Constitution,
treaties, or laws of the United States, and the decision is
against its validity, may, at the election of the party
relying on such state statute, be taken to the Supreme
Court for review on writ of error or appeal; but in that
event a review on certiorari shall not be allowed at the
instance of such party, and the review on such writ of
error or appeal shall be restricted to an examination and
decision of the federal questions presented in the case.
"(c) No judgment or decree of a Circuit Court of Appeals or of the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia shall be subject to review by the Supreme Court otherwise than as provided in this section."
The plain intent of this statute is .to limit appeals to
this Court from a Circuit Court of Appeals to cases where
its decision is against the validity of a statute of a State
upon the ground of its being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties, or laws of the United States. In other
cases, review by this Court, if it be had, must be pursuant
to a writ of certiorari duly applied for and granted.
-As in this case the Circuit Court of Appeals did not
decide against the validity'of the order of the Public
Service Commission upon the asserted federal' grounds,.
but dealt with its validity solely under the state law, the
appeal must be dismissed. [See post, p. 578.]

