284

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

284 U.S.

Borwit Teller & Co. v. United States, 283 U. S. 258,
"says nothing in conflict with the view which we now approve.

Affirmed..
DENVER & RIO GRANDE WESTERN RAILROAD
CO. ET AL. v. TERTE, JUDGE,
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME .COURT OF MISSOURI.

No.430.

Argued November 24, 1931.-Decided January 4, 1932.

1. A court of a State where a foreign railroad corporation is authorized to do business, owns and operates part of its lines, maintains
an office, arid has agents for the transaction of its -g6neral business,
has jurisdiction of a suit against the company in damages for personal injuries under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, brought
by a resident upon a cause of action which arose in another State"
when he was residing there. P. 287.
2. Jurisdiction in such case is not defeated by the fact that a second
railroad company, over which the court is without jurisdiction, is
named codefendant. Id.
3. A foreign railroad corpbration which is'not authorized to do business within the State, and does not own or operate any of its lines
within- the State, although it owns some property there and employs agents who solicit traffic, held not subject to the jurisdiction
of a court of that State in a suit in damages for personal injuries
under the Federal Employers' tiability Act, brought by a resident
upon a cause of action which arose in another State when he was
residing there, as otherwise an undue burden upon interstate commerce would result. Id.
4. The prbhibition .against burdening interstate commerce can not be
evaded merely by attaching the property of the foreign railroad
corporation within the State, nor may it be avoided by joining as
codefendant in the suit'a second railroad company over wltich the
court has jurisdiction. The burden aid expense which the carrier
must incur in order to make defense in a State where the accident
did not occur has no relation to the nature of the process used tobring it before the court. Id.
5. The fact that Witnesses for the plaintiff reside within the State,
thus bnabling him to try his cause- there with less inconvenience

DENVER & R. G. W. R. CO. v. TERTE.
284

Opinion of the Court.

than elsewhere, is not sufficient to justify the st te court in retain.ing jurisdiction of the suit. P. 287.
Reversed.

CERTIORARI, post, p. 601,'to review a judgment of the
Supreme Court of'Missouri denying a petition for a writ
of.prohibitionto restrain a county circuit court from"entertaining further jurisdiction of a suit in damages for
personal injuries, under the Federal Employers' Liability
Act, against two foreign railroad corporations.
Mr. Thomas Hackney, with whom Mr. Cyrus Crane
was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Clay C. Rogers for respondent.
MR. JusTICE MCREY.NOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This Writ of certiorari to the Supreme Court of Missouri
brings up for review a judgment which denied a petition
for prohibition witholit an accompanying opinion.
Following the local practice, the Denver and Rio Grande
Western Railroad Company (Rio Grande) and the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway Company (Santa Fe)
presented their petition directly to the Supreme 'Court.
After setting out the proceedings in an action against
them pending. in the Jackson County Circuit Court, it
alleged that if the cause proceeded to trial an undue
burden on interstate commerce would result; also the
commerce clause of the Federal Constitution and the
Fourteenth Amendment *ould be violated. It asked that
the presiding Judge be restrained from entertaining further jurisdiction.
- On August 26, 1930, Curtis, then residing in Missouri,
,brought the above nientioned action against both the
Santa Fe and the Rio Grande under the Federal Em-

286

OCTOBER TERM, 193L
Opinion.of the Court.

284 U.S.

ployers' Liability Act. He sought damages for personal
.injuries said to have resulted from their joint negligence
on December 26, 1929, while he was employed by them
at an interlocking track and signal plant near Pueblo,

Colorado.
A writ of attachment against the Rio Grande w served
by garnishee process upon several railroad companies said
to be indebted to it. Summonses for both defendants
were served upon their, agents.
Defendants, appearing specially, moved to quash the
attachment and summonses and presented affidavits to
-upport their motions. The plaintiff flied, counter-affidavits. It appeared that properly to defend the cauae
woull require attendance of witnesses from Colorado at
laige expense; also the attendance of some witnesses for
the plaintiff who resided in Missouri. The trial court
overruled the motions. Thereupon, the defendants petitioned the Supreme Court as above stated.
The Rio. Grande, a Delaware corporation, operates lines
which lie wholly *vithin Colorado, Utah and New Mexico.
It neither owns nor operates any line7 in Missouri; but it
does own and use some property located there. It maintains one or more Offices in the State and employs-agents
who solicit traffic. These agents engage in transactions
incident to the procurement, deliviery and record of such
traffic. It is notlicensed to do'business in Missouri. "
The Santa Fe, a Kansas corporation, owns and operates
railroad lines in Missouri, Kansas, Colorado, and other
States. It is licensed to do business in Missouri and has
an office and agents -in Jackson County. These agents
transact the business brdinarily connected witl the operation of a carrier by railroad.
After being injured at Pueblo, and before instituting.
his action against the railroad companies, Curtis7 removed
to and became a bona fide resident and citizen.of Missouri.

DENVER &R. G. W. R. CO. v. TERTE.
284

287

Opinion of the Coirt.

According to th6 doctrine approved In Hoff man, V.
Foraker,274 U. S. 21, we think the Santa Fe was properly sued in Jack~on County. The Supreme Court committed no error of which we can take notice by refusing
to prohibit further prosecution of the actioff against that
company. The mere fact that the Santa Fe was named
a codefendant 'with the Rio Grande was not "enough to
defeat -jurisdiction of the court over the former.
Under the ruleapproved in Michigan. Cenifra '., Co.
v. Mix, 278 U. S. 492, the Rio Grande properly claimed
exemption from suit i Jackson Cpunty. It was not neces-sary to join the two, Railroad Companies in one action.
Whatever liability exists--is several. The prohibition
against burdening interstate commerce cannot be av6ided"
by the simplP device -of.-a joint- action. Nor can -this
be'evaded merely by attaehing the property of. the non-resident railroad corporation. Obviously, the burden and
expense which the carrier must incur in order to -make defense in a State where the accident did nt occur-has .no-'
relation to the nature of the'processused, to bring it-before
the court. -

The alleged residence in Mss6urL of persons whose testimony plaintiff supposed would be necessary to prove
his claim was not enough to justify retehon of jurisdiction by the Circuit Court. While this circumstance might
enable, plaintiff to try his cause there with -less inconvenience than elsewhere, it would not prevent impisition of
'a serious burden uponintertae -commerce. And;we
have held, it is the infliction of this burden that 'deprives"
the courts of jurisdictign over cases'lik6 this. Dav'is V.
Farmers Co6pdrative Cla., 262 V. S.-312.. Further, a.s a
-practical mdatter, couirts could not undeKtake"to ascertain
in advance of trial he-number and imnportance of prob-.
able witnesses within - 4d, without'the Stae and retain

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.

288

Syllabus.

284 U.S.

or refuse jurisdiction according to the relative .inconvenience.of the parties.
The judgment of the Supreme Court must be reversed.
The cause will be remanded there for further proceedings'

not.inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR, JUSTICE STONE

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
ATLANTIC COAST LINE RAILROAD CO. ET. AL.- V.
UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROMV

THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.,

No. 88.. Argued December 7, 193L.-Decided January 4, 1932.
1. Acting under ยง 5 (2) of the Interstate Commerce Act, the Comfimission granted'to petitioner carriers -permission to lease a line
connecting with.their system,,but in order to preserve existing and
possible through routes via the leased line on other railroads, it
granted the "permission upon the conditions: that the lessor be.
"maintained as a separate organization 'and its line constitute a
separate operating unit; that existing routes.6f traffic, gateways of
interchange, and neutrality in handling traffic be continued, so as to
preserve- equal servicerouting and movement of competitive traffic to and from all connecting lines reached by the leased line; that
the lessees permit carriers then connecting with the leased line, or
which might thereafter connect with it, to participate, without discrinination, in thiough routes and joint rates on traffic moving
over it as an intermediate road between regions designated in .the
order, and that, to this end, the'leased line should be maintained
as an open route equally available to all carriers connecting with
it. Held:
(1) That the conditions applied in favor of a railroad whose line
wa extended, several years after the order was made, t%the line
of another carrier by which it was linked to the leased line.. P. 293.
(2) That tariff provisions by which the lessee companies established exclusive through routes over the leased line violated the

