CENT. PAC. RY. v. ALAMEDA COUNTY
460

463

Syllabus.

Under the circumstances disclosed by, the record,
clearly, we think, David assumed the risk of the default
which, it is said, resulted in his death. He understood
the nature of his employment and the incident dangers.
He well knew that he was subjecting himself to murderous attacks by desperadoes. There was no promise to give
him special warning or protection. Even if he had knowledge of McCarthy's employment (and this is far from
certain), he must have appreciated the utter unreliability
of the man and the probable inability bf the master to
obtain timely information through such a medium. He
could not properly expect to be protected against criminals, whom he was employed to fighi, through treachery
by one of their associates. The common employer, notwithstanding efforts to obtain warning, actually knew
nothing of the criminal plan. If we accept respondent's
view of the facts, David assumed the risk of the negligent
action of which complaint is now made.
We need not consider any other point advanced in behalf of the petitioner.
. The judgment of the court below must be reversed.
The cause will be remanded for further proceedings not
inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. ET AL. v. ALAMEDA COUNTY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 258.

Argued January 7, 1932.

Decided February 15, 1932.

1. There is a presumption that a highway, once established, continues
to exist; and he who would make good a later title upon the ground
that, through deviations in places from the original route, there was
such an abandonment as to substitute for the old road a different
one, dependent for its legality upon other and independent facts
and conditions, has the burden of sustaining that proposition.
P. 467.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Counsel for Parties.

284 U. S.

2. Even in the case of highways sought to be established by prescription, where the user must be confined to a definite line, slight
deviations are not regarded as material. P. 467.
3. Section 8 of the Act of' July 26, 1866, granting rights of way for
the construction of highways over the public lands, was, so far as
the then existing roads are concerned, a voluntary recognition and
confirmation of prcisting rights brought into being with the
acquiescence and encouragement of the general 'Government.
Pp. 468-472.
4., The grant of a right of way over the public lands made to the
*Central Pacific Railroad by the Acts of July 1, 1862, and July 2,
1864, held subject to' the easement of a highway in California
established-in 1859 under the state law and in use before and when
the railway was laid out. and constructed, and continuously, since.
I I
Id.
5. Judicial notice taken:
(1) Of the fact that where roads have been originally formed
by the passage of wagons over the-natural soil, the line of travel is
subject to occasional deviations owing to changes brought about by
storms, temporary obstructions, and other causes. P. 467.
. (2) Of the facts -that, long before the Act of July 26, 1866, highways in large numbers had been laid out by local, state, and territorial authorities, upon and across the public lands, and that this
practice had been so long continued and the number of roads thus
created had been so great, as to compel the conclusion that they
were established and used with the, knowledge and acquiescence of
the national Government. P. 472.
212 Cal. 348; 299 Pac. 75, affirmed.

CERTIORARI * to review a decree dismissing a bill brought
by the petitioners to quiet their title to lands within the
right of way of the railway company which were traversed
by a public highway.
Mr. C. F. R. Ogilby, with whom Messrs. Frank Thunen
and Guy V. Shoup were on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Eadrl Warren, District Att6rney of Alameda County,
with whom Mr. T. P. Wittschen was on the brief, for
respondents.
• See table of cases reported in this volume.

CENT. PAC. RY. v. ALAMEDA COUNTY.

465

Opinion of the Court.

463

MR.JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioners brought this suit against respondents in a
state superior court to quiet their title to certain lands
lying within Alameda County, California. The bill alleges that the lands described constitute parts of the right
of way granted by the acts of Congress approved July 1,
'1862, and July 2, 1864, (c. 120, 12 Stat. 489; c. 216, 13
Stat. 356), to the Central Pacific Railroad Company,
predecessor in interest of the Central Pacific Railway
Company, and leased to the Southern Pacific Company;
that the County of Alameda and the other defendants,
without the permission or consent, and against the will,
of petitioners, and without right or legal authority, had
been and were then using the lands for highway or road
purposes and thereby wrongfully excluding petitioners
therefrom. To this bill respondents ;fled an answer and
cross-complaint, denying some of the allegations of the
bill, admitting others, and alleging affirmatively that the
County of 'Alameda was the ownef of the described lands,
and was in possession and entitled to the possession
thereof.
The trial court found that three of the described parcels, held in fee by the Central Pacific Railway Company,
were subject to an easement in favor of the county to
maintain an existing right of way for highway purposes.
A decree, entered accordingly, was affirmed by the state
supreme court. 299 Pac. 75.
An abridged statement of facts found by the trial court
and set forth at length in the opinion of the state supreme
court follows.
A public highway between Niles and Sunol, through
and along the bottom of Niles Canyon, was laid out and
declared by the county in -1859, and ever since has been
maintained. During that time it has served as one of
the 'main arteries of travel between the bay regions of
85912°-32-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

2841. S.

southern Alameda County and the Livermore Valley. In
establishing the highway, the county acted by authority
of, and in compliance with, the requirements of state
statutes then in force. Thatportion of the canyon containing the segments of the highway here in question is
narrow, deep, and rugged, and through it runs the Alameda Creek. Steep cliffs make it impracticable to maintain a highway through the canyon except along the
bottom thereof. In pursuance of the act of Congress of
1862; supra, granting a right of way four hundred feet
wide across the public lands to the Central Pacific Railroad Company, the company, designated as part of its
right of way the route through Niles Canyon, which right
of..way, on account of the narrowness of the canyon, embraced part of the land occupied by the highway. A
single track railroad was completed in 1868, over which
trains 'have since been operated, but thereby the free
use of the highway hever has been interfered with.
About the years 1910-1911, owing to the effect of flood
waters, a part of the highway was moved from one side of
the creek to the other and beyond the railroad right of
way, the discontinued portions being formally abandoned.
When this suit was begun, the highway was within the
right of way for stretches of about one-half a mile at the
westerly end of the canyon, about one mile and a half at
the easterly end, and for a short distance between the two.
The physical conditions of the canyon are such as to render the use of the lands over these stretches for highway
purposes a practical necessity. In reconstituting the
highway in 1910-1911, the line of the then existing road
was substantially followed, except for the abandoned
portions.
The trial court found that "-the said highway did not
exist throughout in its present location hereinabove particularly described prior to March 27, 1911, but that these
parts of the old road No. 247 -[the road of 1859] not ex-

CENT. PAC. RY. v. ALAMEDA COUNTY.
463

467

Opinion of the Court.

pressly abandoned by the Board of Supervisors on said
date and now included within the limits of County road
No. 4974 [the road of 1910-1911], are a part of the present traveled road." The testimony of witnesses in respect
of the identity of these parts of the new and the old roads
is meager and leaves much to be desired in the way of
certainty, as, owing to the great lapse of time, well might
be expected. But that a road through the canyon was
laid out and established in 1859, under and in accordance
with the state law, and was thereafter used by the public,
is not open to serious controversy, although the point is
urged that the present road departs from the line of that
first established. The original road was formed by the
passage of wagons, etc., over the natural soil, and we
know, as a matter of ordinary observation, that in such
cases the line of travel is subject to occasional deviations
owing to changes brought about by storms, temporary obstructions, and other causes. But, so far as the specific
parcels of land here in dispute are concerned, we find
nothing in the record to compel the conclusion that any
departure from the line of the original highway was of
such extent as to destroy the identity of the road as originally laid out and used. Even in the case of highways
sought to be established by prescription, where the user
must be confined to a definite line, slight deviations are
not regarded.as material. Nelson v. Jenkins, 42 Neb. 133,
137; 60 N. W. 311; Burleigh County v. Rhud, 23 N. D.
362, 364; 136 N. W. 1082; Moon v. Lollar, 203 Ala. 672;
85 So. 6; Gentleman v. ,Soule, 32 Ill. 271, 278; Bannister
v. O'Connor, 113 Iowa 541, 543; 85 N. W. 767.
Here the question is not whether there had been such
deviations from the original line of travel as to negative
the claim that a road had been brought into existence by
prescription, but whether there had been such substantial
departures from portions of the line of the road established in 1859 as to coiistitnte an abandonment of those

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U. S.

portions of that road, and the substitution, pro tanto, of a
new one so removed in location as to cause it to depend
for its legality not upon the original establishment but
upon independent facts and considerations. The burden
of sustaining the affirmative of this proposition plainly
rests upon the party who asserts it, since proof of the
establishment of a road raises a presumption of its continuance. That is to say, the respondents having shown
the establishment by the county of a road through Niles
Canyon in 1859, the continuing identity of that road must
be presumed until overcome by proof to the contrary, the
burden of which rests upon the petitioners. Barnes v.
Robertson, 156 Iowa 730, 733; 137 N. W. 1018; Beckwith
v. Whalen, 65 N. Y. 322, 332; Eklonv. Chelsea, 223 Mass.
213, 216; 111 N. E. 866; Taeger v. Riepe, 90 Iowa 484,
487; 57 N. W. 1125; Oyster Bay v. Stehl~i, 169 App. Div.
(N. Y.) 257, 262; 154 N. Y.S. 849. This is in accordance
with the general principle that a-condition oncq shown to
exist is presumed to continue. In the light of this presumption, and the absence of evidence clearly contravening it, we cannot say that the findings below are wholly
without 6upport. The coiiclusion. follows that the portions of the highway now in question, prior to the grant
of the railroad.right of way of 1862, formed part of a
legally constituted public road, which, since its establishment in 1859, has been in continuous use. In this view,
the decree below must be affirmed upon principles settled
by this court in respect of cognate cases.
By the Act of July 26, 1866, c. 262, 14 Stat. 251-253,
Congress dealt with the acquisition of a variety of rights
upon the public domain. By §§ 1-7, mineral lands,
whether surveyed or unsurveyed, are opened to exploration and occupation, subject to regulations prescribed by
law, and to the local customs and rules of miners in the
several districts. Section 8, the one with which we are

CENT. PAC. RY. v. ALAMEDA COUNTY.
463

469

Opinion of the Court.

here concerned, provides "That the right of way for the
construction of highways over public lands, not reserved
for public uses, is hereby granted." By § 9, it is provided
that rights to the use of water for mining, agricultural,
or other purposes, which have vested and accrued and are
recognized and acknowledged by local customs, laws, etc.,
shall be maintained and protected; "and the right of way
for the construction of ditches and canals for the purposes
aforesaid is hereby acknowledged and confirmed."
In Broder v. Water Co., 101 U. S. 274, this court had § 9
under consideration. It there appeared that the water
company owned a canal for conducting and distributing
water for mining, agricultural, and other uses.. The canal
was completed in 1853, and thereafter was in constant
operation, and uniformly acknowledged and recognized
by the local customs, laws, and decisions of the courts of
California. Until the passage of the act of i862, supra,
the land through which the canal ran was the public property of the United States. A portion of it was included
in the grant of lands made by that act to the railroad coni-.
pany from whichBxoder-derived-his-titf t6 a- ct .traversed by the canal. He brought suit against the water
company to have the canal declared a nuisahce and abated,
and to recover damages. This court held -that, notwithstanding the fact that Broder's title antedated the Act of
1866, that title, nevertheless, was subject to the right of
way for the canal. Upon that, matter it was said [p.
276]:
"It is the established doctrine of this court that rights
of . . . persons who had constructed canals and ditches
. . . are rights Which the government had, by its conduct,
recognized and encouraged a~d.'was bound to protect,
before the passage of the act of 1866. We are of opinion
that the section of the act which we have quoted was
rather a voluntary recognition of a pre-existing right of

470

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U. S.

possessiorn, constituting a valid claim to its continued use,
than the establishment of a new on.
The court then, referring to the clause in § 4 of the
Act of July 2, 1864, supra, reserving from defeat or impairment by the general terms of the grant of 1862, "any
pre-emption, homestead, swampland, or. other lawful
claim," said that all such reservations were to be" construed in the light of the general principle that Congress,
in making the donations, could not be supposed to, do so
"at the expense of pre-existing rights, which, though imperfect, were still meritorious, and had just claims to
legislative protection."
Leavenworth, L. & G. R. Co. v. United States, 92 U. S.
733, involved a grant to the State of Kansas of lands
to aid in the construction of specified railroads; and the
question was whether the grant included lands dedicated
to, and. occupied by, the Osage Indians. The grant was
subject to a proviso reserving to the United States all
lands theretofore reserved for the purpose of.aiding in
any object of internal improvement or for any other purpose whatsoever. It was held that this proviso had the
effect of excluding the Indian lands from the operation
of the grant. The court, at p. 746, said:
"It would be strange, indeed, if, by such an act, Congress meant to give away property which a just and-wise
policy .had devoted to other purposes. That lands
dedicated to the use of the Indians should, upon every
principle of natural right, be carefully guarded by the
government, and saved from a possible grant, is a proposition which will command universal assent."
And the court added:
"What ought to be done, has been done. The proviso
was not necessary to do it; but it serves to fix more
definitely what is granted by what is excepted.,

CENT. PAC. RY. v. ALAMEDA COUNTY.
463

-

471

Opinion'of the Court.

Likewise, this court has recognized that the appropriation of mineral lands upon the public domain in accordance with the local customs of miners, prior to Congressional legislation, was assented to by the silent acquiescence of the government, and was entitled to protection.
See Atchison v. Peterson, 20 Wall. 507, 512; Sparrow v.
Strong, 3 Wall. 97, 104; Jennison v.'Kirk, 98 U. S. 453,
458; Northern Pacific R. Co. v. Sanders, 166 U. S. 620,
634.
In Jennisonv. Kirk, supra,at page 459, referring to the
Act of 1866, this court quoted approvingly the statement
of the author of the act, that "It merely recognized the
obligation of the government to respect private rights
which had grown up under its tacit consent and approval.
It proposed no new system, but sanctioned, regulated, and
confirnied a system already established, to which the
people were attached."
Asfar back as i855, the Supreme Court of California,
in an opinion which received the approval of this court
in Atchison v. Peterson, supra, said:
"In this State the larger part of the territory consists
of mineral lands, nearly the whole of ivhich are the property of the public. No right or intent of disposition of
these lands has been shown either by the United States
or the state governments, and with the exception of certain state regulations, very limited in their character, a
system has been permitted to grow up by the voluntary
action and assent of the population, whose free and unrestrained occupation of the mineral region has been
tacitly assented to by the one government, and heartily
encouraged by the expressed legislative policy of the other.
If there are, as must be admitted, many things connected
with this system, which are crude and undigested, and
subject to fluctuation and dispute, there are still some

472

.

OCTOBER TERM, 1981.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U. S.

which a universal sense of necessity and propriety have
so firmly fixed as that they have come to be looked upon
as having the force and effect of res judicata. Among
these the most important are the rights of miners to be
protected in the possession of their selected localities, and
the rights-of those who, by prior appropriation, have taken
the waters from their natural beds, and by costly artificial
works have conducted them for miles over mountains and
ravines, to supply the necessities of gold diggers, and without which the most, important interests- of the mineral
region would remain without development." Irwin v.
Phillips,5-Cal. 140, 146.
Finally, in Cramerv. United States, 261 U. S. 219, 229,
it was held that public lands in-the actual occupancy of
individual Indians since before 1859, were excepted from
the railroad grant of lands made by the Act of July 25,
1866, c. 242, 14 Stat. 239. This holding was based upon
the well understood governmental policy of encouraging
the Indian to forego his wandering habits and adopt those
of civilized life; and it was said that to hold that by so
doing he- acquired no possessory rights to the lands occupied, to which the government would .accord protection,
would be contrary to the whole spirit of the traditidnal
American'policy toward these dependent. wards of the
nation. "The fact that such right of occupancy finds no
recognition in any statute or other formal governmental
action is not conclisive. The right, under the circumstances here disblosed, flows from a settled governmental
policy. Broder v. Water Co., 101 U. S. 274, 276, fur-.
nishes an analogy."
The present case is controlled by the same general
principles. We cannot close our eyes to the'fact that
long before the Act of 1866, highways in large number'
had been laid out by local, state and territorial authority,
upon and across the public lands. The practice of doing
so had been so long continued, and the number of roads
thus created was so great, that it is impossible to con-

CENT. PAC. RY. v. ALAMEDA COUNTY. 473
463

Opinion of the Court.

elude otherwise than that they were established and used
with the full knowledge and acquiescence of the national
government. These roads, in the fullest sense of the
words, were necessary aids to the development and disposition of the public lands. Compare Flint & P. M. Ry.
Co. v. Gordon, 41 Mich. 420, 428-429; 2 N. W. 648; Red
Bluff v. Walbridge, 15 Cal. App. 770, 778-9; 116 Pac. 77.
They facilitated communication between settlements already made, and encouraged the ,making of new ones;
increased the demand for additional lands, and enhanced
their value. Governmental concurrence in and assent to
the establishment of these roads are so apparent, and their
maintenance so clearly in furtherance of the general policies of the United States, that the moral obligation to
protect them against destruction or impairment as a result
of subsequent grants follows as a ratiohial consequence.
The section of the Act of 1866 granting rights of way for
the construction of highways, no less than that which
grants the right of way for ditches and canals, was, so
far as then existing roads are concerned, a voluntary
recognition and confirmation of pre~xisting rights, brought
into being with the acquiescence and encouragement of
the general government.
It follows that the laying out by authority of the state
law of the road here in question created rights of continuing user to which the government must be deemed to have
assented. Within the principle of the decisions of this
court heretofore cited, they were such rights as the government in good conscience was bound to protect against
impairment from subsequent grants. The reasons for so
holding are too cogent to be denied. When, under that
grant, the railroad company designated its right of way
and built its line, it must be held to have done so with
knowledge of the existence of the highway and subject to
its continued maintenance and use.
Decree affirmed.

