OCTOBER TERM, 1931.

206

Syllabus.

284 U.S.

order the division as to earlier dates. See United States
v. Chicago, M.,St. P. & P. R. Co., 282 U. S. 311.
But it is said, in effect, that since the ,order is void so
far as it applied to a past period, identified by named
dates, that part of it -is as though it had never been
written and, hence, the order when applied to the future
must be read as though it specified no time for its operation. But the mere fact that the Commission commanded, in a single writing, some things which were beyond its power, together with others that were riot, could
not erase from the document either the dates or the words.
or change their meaning or preclude our looking at them,
to see in what manner and to what extent the Commission exercised the power it, did possess. Looking at -the
words I cannot say that the order, so far as it directed
the division after thirty days from its date, did not comply with § 15 (2), or that it can rightly be set at naught
regardless of the nature and amount of the evidence supporting it.
MR. JSTIcbE HOLMES

and MR.JusTIcE BRANDEIS con-

cur in this opinion.

HOEPER v. TAX COMMISSION OF WISCONSIN.
ET AL.
-APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF WISCiNSIN.
No. 17.
1.

Submitted October 15, 1931.-Decided November 30, 1931.

Wisconsin income tax statute which authorizes an assessment
against a husband of a tax computed on the combined total of his
and his wife's incomes and augmented by surtaxes resulting from
the combination, although under the laws of the State the husband
has no interest in, or control over the property or income of his
wife, held violative of the due process and equal protection clauses'
of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 215.

HOEPER v. TAX COMMISSION.
206

207

Argument for Appellant.

2. The statute as so applied cannot be ju~tified either as necessary to
prevent frauds and evasions or, since it is essentially a revenue
measure, as a regulation of the marriage relation. Pp. 216, 217.
202 Wis. 493; 233 N. W. 100, reversed.

APPEAL from a judgment of the Supreme Court of Wisconsin which affirmed a judgment upholding the validity
under the Fourteenth Amendment of statutes of the State
imposing taxes upon incomes.
Mr. ClaireB. Bird was on the brief for'appellant.
In Wisconsin, a husband has no interest in or control
over his wife's property, earnings, or income.
R. S. 71.05 (2) (d), which authorizes collection of a tax
from a husband solely because his wife has separate income from a separate estate, takes his property without
due process of law. Union Transit Co. v. Kentucky, 199
U. S. 194; Home Savings Bank v. Des Moines, 205 U. S.
503, 510; Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. O'Connor, 223
U. S. 280, 285; Western Union v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1, 38;
Pullman Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 56, 62; State Tax on
Foreign Held Bonds, 15 Wall. 300.
An income tax may be levied only on -the owner or
legal beneficiary of income. Corliss v. Bowers, 281 U. S.
376; Poe v. Seaborn, 282 U. S. 101. See also United
States v. Robbins, 269 U. S. 315, 326-7; Old Colony Trust
Co. v. Commissioner; 279 U. S. 716.
No classification can make appellant liable for the tax
on this income of his wife. Classification deals with discrimination, not fundamental liabilities. If the subject
matter is not taxable at all to the person in question, then
such taxation is the taking of property without due process of law. A valid'tax may be made void by discriminatory classification. A void tax cannot- be validated by
classification.

208

QCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Aigunient for Appellee.-

284 U.S.

The claim of opportunities for fraud and 'colorable
cannot avail to validate this tax. Schlesinger v.
Wisco nsin, 270 U. S. 228, 240.
Under the laws of Wisconsin, marriage affects only the
social, and not at all the financial status of the parties.
A tax law .based on property, which, taxes one because
of property rights of another with-whom he has social but
no financial relations, makes an arbitrary and unreasonable classification, having no relation to the subject matter
of the tax law, and is void. Smith v. Cahoon, 283 U. S.
553k Air Way Elec. App. Corp. v. Day, 266 U. S. 71, 85;
Southern Ry. Co. v. Greene, 216 U. S. 400, 4i7.
R. S.: 71.09 (4) (c), pursuant to which the State levied
and collected from appellant a tax on his own income at a
rate greater than collected. Of others of like income, also.
violates -the Fourteenth Amendment. We see no need of
separate discussion Under this-head. If the State may tax
a husband because of separate estate and income of, his
wife, it may impose an increased rate on him on his own
income for the same reason. If, on the other hand, the
Fourteenth Amendment prohibits taxing him on his wife's
income, the sAme reasoning prohibits increasing his own
tax for that reason. Theexcess added to his proper'tax
is a tax on him solely because of his wife's.income. It-is a
difference in amount or degree only, not a difference in
principle.

1 transfers

Messrs. John W. Reynolds, Attorney General of Wisconsin, and HaroldM. Wilkie were on the brief for the'
Tax Commission of Wisconsin, appellee.
Practical considerations upon which the legislature may
well have relied are sufficieht to sustain the law in
question.
The statute permits the rate of tax and average- income on which the tax is to be paid by the husband to be
greater (by reason of his wife's income) than he.otherwise

HOEPER v. TAX COMMISSION.
206

209

Argufient for Appellee.

would pay only where the husband and wife are living
together. If the wife were living apart, she would have
a separate exemption, be assessed separately, and'so would
he; and the rate would be somewhat lower. In such case,
they would not be living in the same family'establishment
and the same reason would not exist for taxing him on the
basis of greater ability to pay because of each spouse having an income. Greater ability to pay is of course a justification Jor requiring larger, contributions by way of income taxation. Shaffer v. Carter,252 U.'S. 37, 51.
It is true that Wisconsin has modified some of the
common law incidents of the status of husband and wife.
It has given the wife the- right to her separate earnings
and property, enlarged the right to sue, and given her
other privileges.
But these changes were within the legislative power to
modify the .relative duties and rights of husband and
wife. The' legislature ian make more changes. The
very law here under consideration,;fixes a certain changed
legal consequence from the relation of marriage. In view
of this right of the state legislature -to,modify the duties
and responsibilities in the marriage relation, we are unable, to see even the presence of a federal question in this
case.

1Moreover, if there were technically a federal question
here, we think the right of the state legislature to use the
presence of the marriage relation as a ground for classification is so clear as to preclude the view that there is a
substantial federal qudstion here.
Practical considerations affecting ability .to pay, and
affecting the amount which the head .of a family ought to
contribute and can contribute by way of taxation without,
jeopardizing the support of his fam'ly, are surely at least
as much for the consideration of the l6gislature and the
.court as the more technical considerations of strictly legal
rights.
8912°-32-14

210

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Appellee.

284U.S.

Whatever may be the situation as to strangers or collateral relatives, we all know that in fact the family burdens on a husband are greatly lightened by the possession
and receipt of substantial income by his wife. The family unity is a fact which has 'not and probably cannot be
changed by legislation. The relation in fact existing between husband and wife, with its practically universal
accompaniment of assistance to each from the income of
the other in the performance of the common family duties
and -in sustaining the common family' burdens, would
seem in itself quite sufficient to acquit a legislature, in
respect of legislation such as is here involved, of a charge
of having passed a law making unfair and arbitrary discriminations without any reasonable basis.
Under Wisconsin laws the husband still has substantial pecuniary advantages from the property and income
of the wife which are not possessed by other persons.
The Wisconsin statutes provide that the father, mother,
husband, children, and wife of any poor person who is so
old or decrepit as to be unable to maintain himself, shall
relieve and maintain him so far as they are able, and further, that the county judge on notice shall "by order require relief and maintenance from such relatives . . . if
living and of sufficient ability . . . in the following order:
first the husband or wife; then the father; then the children; and lastly the mother." Section 49.11 Wis. Stats.
In cases of divorce, where the custody of the children is
awarded to the husband "the court may adjudge to the
husband out of the separate estate of the wife, such sums
for the support and education of such minor children as it
shall deem just and reasonable." Sec. 247.27 Wis. Stats.
As to judicial separation, it is specifically provided that
the court may .divide between the parties the estate of
the husband and so much of the estate of the wife as shall
have been derived from the husband, having always due

HOEPER v. TAX COMMISSION.
206

211

Argument for Appellee:

regard to the legal and equitable rights of each party, the
ability of the husband, the special estate of the wife, the
character and situation of the parties and all the circumstances of the case. Sec. 247.26.
He may still inaintain an action for injury to or death
of the wife in which the damages are measured, not only
by the vilue of her services in the household, but also by
other earnings which have aided in the support of the
family. Herro v. Malleable Iron C6-., 181 Wis. 198; 200.'
That in exceptional cases a husband imay possibly derive no benefit from the income of his wife does not invalidate this law. Quong Wing v. Kirkendall, 223 U. S.
59, 62; Metropolis Theatre Co. v. Chicago, 228 U. S. 61,
69.
. Why should not marriage be a basis for classificition?
A court need not close its eyes to facts which everyone
else knows. The fact that there may be some hard cases
under this"or any other law is not sufficient reason for
condemning it.
The fact that evasion of just income taxation (higher
rates for higher incomes> would be easier if the incomes
of husband and wife were not combined and tax-assessed
on this basis is a further consideration supporting this
law. The law has recognized almost from time immemorial that the marriage relationship offers peculiar opportunities for evasion. This is shown by statutes regulating transfers between husband and wife, by decisions
holding.that transactions between them should be closely
scrutiniied, and by other similar laws and decisions.
In Schlesinger v. Wisconsin, 270 U. S. 228, the gift
taxed could, not, as a gift inter vivos, have been subjected
at all to the graduated tax involved, even if all gifts inter
vivos were so subjected. And further, all gifts inter vivos
except those within-six years of death, ecaped the tax.
Here the income of the wife can unquestionably be made
the subject of a graduated tax just as that of the husband,

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U.S.

No presumption is resorted to to make her income a partial measure of the tax. She and her husband both could
be taxed at a higher rate because they each had income
and they had each less burden to bear because they were
husband and wife and lived in the same household. The
rate is higher, but no subject matter is taxed which in a
similar sittiation is not taxed the same way. In the
Schlesinger case of inter vivos gifts, only gifts within six
years of death were taxed. Here the rule is absolutely the
same-as to every husband and wife living together and as
to all their income. In every family the same rule applies as to all income. We therefore think this case .is
easily distinguishable. And if it were not, that case
would only destroy one of the several grounds on which
this statute should be sustained.
Poe v. Seabon., 282 U. S. 101; Corliss .v. Bowers, 281
U. S. 376; United States v. Robbins, 269 U. S. 315; Old
Colony Trust Co. v. Commissioner, 279 U. 8. 716; and
Lucas v. Earl, 281 U. S. 111, are clearly distinguishable.
M. JusTIce JOBERTS delivered . the opinion of the
Court.
Appellant, a resident of Marathon County, Wisconsin,
married in -the year 1927. Subsequently to his marriage
he was in receipt of income taxable to him under the income tax statute of the state; His wife, during the same
period, received taxable income, composed of a salary,
interest and dividends, and a share of the profits .of a
partnership with which her husband had no connection.
The assessor of incomes assessed against the appellant a
tax c6mputed on the combined total of his and his wife's
incomes as shown by separate rethrns, treating the aggregate as his income. The amount so ascertained and aswould have
sessed exceeded the sum of the taxes which
been due had their taxable incomes been separately as-

HOEPER v. TAX COMMISSION.
206

Opinion of the Court.

sessed.1 The authority for the assessor's procedure is
found in the following sections of th&act:
Section 71.05 (2) (d): ". .. In computing taxes and
the amount of taxes payable by persons residing together
as members of a family, the income of the wife and the
income of each child under eighteen years of age shall be
added to that of the husband or father, or if he be not
living, to that of the head of the family and assessed to
him except as hereinafter provided. The taxes levied
shall be payable by such husband or head of the family,
but if not paid by him may be enforced against any person whose.income is included within the tax computation."
Section 71.09 (4) (c): "Married persons living together
as husband and wife may make sepai-ate returns or join
in a single joint -return. In either Jcase the tax shall be
computed on the combined average taxable income. The
exemptions provided for in subsection (2) of section 71.05
shall be allowed but once and divided equally and the
amount of tax due shall be -paidby each in the proportion
that the average income of each bears to the combined
average income."
* Appellant paid the tax under protest and after complying with requisite conditions precedent, instituted proceedings to recover so much thereof as was in excess of the
tax computed on his own separate income. He asserted
that the statute as applied to him violates the Foufteenth
.Amendment. The Supreme Court of Wisconsin overruled this contention and .affirmed a judgment for appellees. "The question iswhether the state law as interpretd
-and applied- deprives the taxpayer of due process and of
1This

resulted from the fact that the act provides for surtaxes

graduated according to the amount of the taxpayer's net income.
While the excess would have been .ess if returns and assessments
had been made under'section 71.09 (4)- the total would still have been
greater thau the .sum of -the hqsband's And wife's taxes if separately

assessed on their individual incomes.

214

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U.S.

the equal protection of the law. The appellant says that
what the state has done is to assess and collect from him
a tax based in part upon the income received by his wife,
and that such exaction is arbitrary and discriminatory, and
consequently violative of the constitutional guaranties.
At common law the wife's property, owned at the date
of marriage or in any manner acquired thereafter, is the
property of her husband. Her earnings and income are
his, he may dispose of them at will, and he is liable for
her debts. Were the status of a married woman in Wis-consin that which she had at common law, the statutory
attribution of her income to her husband for income tax
would, no doubt, be justifiable. But her spouse's ownership and control of her property have been abolished by
the laws of the state. Women are declared to have the
same rights as men in the exercise of suffrage, freedom
of contract, choice of residence for voting purposes, jury
service, holding office, holding and conveying property,
care and custody of children, and in all other respects.2
Under the title "Property Rights of Married Women"
it is enacted that a wife's real estate and its rents, issues
and profits shall be her sole and separate property as if
she were unmarried, and shall not be subject to the disposal of her husband; I and this is true of her personal
property as well, whether owned at the date of marriage
or subsequently acquired.4 She may convey; devise or
bequeath her property, real and personal, as if she were
unmarried, and her husband has no right of disposal
thereof, nor is it liable for his debts.5 Either spouse may
convey his or her property to the other or create a lien
-thereon in favor of the other.6 The individual earnings
'Wis. Stats. 1929, § 6.015 (1).
sIbid. § 246.01.

'Wis. Stats. 1929, § 246.02.
'Ibid. § 246.03.
'Ibid. § 246.03.

1IOEPER v. TAX COMMISSION.
206

215

Opinion of the Court.

of every married woman, except those accruing from labor
performed for &ierhusband,- or in his employ 'or payable
by him, are her separate property, and are not subject
to his control or liable for his debts.' She may sue in her
own name and have all the remedies of an unmarried
woman in regard to her separate property or business
and to recover her earnings, and is liable to suit and to
the rendition of a judgment, which may. be enforced
against her separate property as if she were unmarried. 8
Since,' then, in law and in fact, the .wife's income is in
the fullest degree her separate property and in no sense
that of her husband, the question presented is whether the
state has power by an income-tax law to measure his tax,
not by his own income but, in part, by that of another.
To the problem thus' stated, what was said in Knowlton
v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41, 77, is apposite:
"It may be doubted by some, aside from express constitutional restrictions, whether the taxation by Congress;
of the property of one person, accompanied with an arbitrary provision that'the rate of tax shall be.fixed with
reference to the sum of the property of another, thus
bringing about the profound inequality which we have
noticed, would not traiscend the limitations arising from.
those fundaniental conceptions-of free government which
underlie all constitutional systems."
We have no, doubt that, because of the fundamental
conceptions which underlie our system, any attempt by.
a state to measure the tax on one person's property or
income by reference to the property, or income of another
is contrary. to, due'process of law as guaranteed by the
Fourteenth Amendment. That which is not in-fact the
taxpayer's income cannot be made such by calling it
income. Compare Nichols v. CooIidge,. 274 U. S. 531,
540.
SIbid. § 246.05.
Ibid. § 246.07.

216

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U.S.

It is incorrect to say that the provision of the Wis-

consin income tax -statute retains- or'reestablishes what
was formerly an incident of the marriage ielation. Wisconsin has not made the property of the wife that of

her husband, nor has it made the income from her prop-'
erty the income of her husband. Nor has it established
joint ownership. The effort to tax B for A's property or
income does not make B the owner of that. property or
income, and whether the state has power to effect such
a change of ownership"in a particular ase is wholly irrelevant *hen no such-effort has been made. Under the law
of Wisconsin the income of' the wife does not at any
moment or to any extent become the property of thehusband. He never has any title to .it, or controls any
part of it.. That income remains hers until the tax is
paid, and what is left continues to be hers after -that
payment. The state merely levies a tax upon it. What
Wisconsin has done is td tax as a joint income that which
under its law is owned separately and thus to secure a
higher tax than would be the sum of the taxes on the
separate incomes.
-The court below assigned two reasons Which .it
thought
,removed the constitutional objections t' the application
of the statute in the instant case. It cited and-followed
the Income Tax Cases, 148 Wis. 456; 134 N. W. 673;
135 N. W. 164, where the -statute here in question was
sustained on the ground that the provisions under attack
are necessary to -prevent frauds and evasions of the, tax
by married persons, and -stated that the decision. pf this
Court in Schlesinger.v. Wisconsin, 270 U. S. 230, was not
inconsistent with the views expressed by the Supreme
Court of Wisconsin in its. earlier decision. To this we
cannot agree In the. Schlesinger' case this Court ,held
invalid a statute which, for purposes of inheritance tax,
classified all gifts inter vivos, effective within six years of
death, as gifts made in contemplation of death. - To the

HOEPER v. TAX COMMISSION.
206

Opinion of the Court.

argument of the necessity for such classification to prevent frauds and evsions, it was answered 1p. 240]:
"That is to say,.'A' may be required to submit to an
exactment forbidden by the, Constitution if this seems
necessary in order to*enable the State readily to collect
lawful charges against 'B.' Rights guaranteed by .the
-federal Constitution are not to be so lightly treated; they
are superior to this, supposed necessity. :The- State is
forbidden to deny lue process of law or the equal protection of the laws for any purpose whatsoever."
The claimed necessity cannot justify the. otherwise
unconstitutional exaction.
The second reason assigned as a justification- for the
imposition of the tax is that it is&regulation of marriage.
It is said that the marital relation has always been a matter of concern to the state, and has properly been the
subject of legislation which classified, it as a distinct subject of regulation. It is suggested that' a difference of
treatment of married as compared with 'single'persons in
the amount of tax imposed may be due to the greater and
different privileges enjoyed by the former, and, if so, the
discrimination would have a reasonable basis, and constitute pemnissible classification., This view overlooks several important considerations. In the first place,. as is
pointed out above, the state has, except inits purely social
aspects, taken from the marriage status all the elements
which differentiate it from that of the single person. In
property, business and economic relations they are the
same. It can hardly be clainidd that a mere difference in
social relations so alters the taxable status of one receiving
income as to justify -a different measure foi the tax.
is.clear that the law is a revenue measure, and
Again, -it
regulatory taxes. It levies a tax on
imposing
one
not
"every person residing within the state" -and defines the
word "person" as including "natural persons, fiduciaries
and corporations," and," corporations" as including "cor-

218

OCTOBER TERM, i931.
HOLMES, J., dissenting.

284 U.S.

porations, joint stock companies, associations or common
law trusts." It lays graduated taxes on the incomes of
natural persons and corporations at different rates. It is
comprehensive in its provisions regarding gross income
and allowable deductions and exemptions, and is in most
respects the, analogue of the federal income tax acts in
force since 1916. It is obvious that the act does not purport to regulate the, status or relationships of any person,
natural or artificial. Arbitrary and discriinatory provisions contained in it cannot be justified by, calling them
special regulations of the persons or relationships which
are the object of the discrimination. The present case
does not fall within the principle that where the legislature, in prohibiting a traffic or transaction as being against
the policy of the state, makes a classifl6ation, reasonable in
itself, its power so to do is not to be denied simply because
some innocent article comes within the proscribedclass.
Purity-ExtractCo. v. Lynch, 226 U. S. 192, 204. Taxing
one person for the property of another is a different matter. There is no room for the suggestion that qua the
appellant and those similarly situated thM act is a,reasonable regulation, rather than a tax law.
Neither of thexeasons advanced in support of the validity of the statute as applied to the appellant justifies the
resulting discrimination. The exaction is arbitrary and is
a denial of due process.
The judgment must be reversed and the cause remanded
for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JusItcE HOLMEs, dissenting.
This is an 9lpeal from a judgment of the Supreme

Court of Wisconsin sustaining the constituti6nality of a
tax levied under the laws of the State. The appellant
married a widow. Both parties had separate incomes, and
made separate returns. A tax was assessed upon the
appellant for the total e'f both, as if both belonged to

HOEPER v. TAX COMMISSION.
206

HOLMES, J., dissenting.

him. By R. S. Wis. § 71.05 (2) (d), "In computing
taxes and the amount of taxes payable by persons residing together as members of a family, the income of the
wife and the income of each child under eighteen years of
age shall be added to that of the husband or father, or if
he be not living, to that of the head of the-family and
assessed to him except as hereinafter provided. The
taxes levied. shall be payable by such husband or .head
of the family, but if not paid by him may be enforced
against any person whose income is included within the
tax computation." By R. S. § 71.09 (4) (c), "Married
persons living together as husband and wife may make
separate returns or join in.a single joint return. In
either case the tax shall be computed on the combined
average taxable income. The exemptions provided for in
subsection (2) of section 71.05 shall be allowed but once
and divided. equally and the amount of tax due shall be
paid by each in the proportion that the average income
of each bears to the combined average income." The result of adding the incomes was to increase the rate of the
plaintiff's income tax and to charge him with a portion
of the tax otherwise payable by Mrs. ifoeper. He sets
up the Fourteenth Amendment and says that he has been
deprived of due process of law.
This case cannot be disposed of as. an attempt to take
one person's property to pay another person's debts. The
statutes are the outcome of a thousand years of history.
They must beviewed against the background of the
earlier rules that husband and wife are one, and that
one the husband; and that as the husband took the wife's
chattels he was liable for her debts. They form a system
with echoes of different moments, none of which is entitled to prevail over the other.. The emphasis in other
sections on separation of interests cannot make us deaf
to the assumjtion, in the sections quoted, of community
when two spouses live together and when usually each

220

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
HOLMES, J., dissenting.

284 U.s.

would get the benefit of the income of each without inquiry into the source. So far as the Constitution of the
United States is concerned, the legislature has power to
determine what the consequences of marriage shall be, and
as it may provide that the husband shall or shall not
have certain r ghts in his wife's property, and shall or
shall not be liable for his wife's debts, it may enact that
he shall be liable for taxes on an income that in every
probability will make his life easier and help to pay his
bills. Taxation may consider not only command 'over,
but actual enjoymefft of, the property taxed. See Corliss
v.- Bowers, 281 U. S. 376, .378. In some States, if not
in all, the husband became the owner of. the wife's chattels, on marriage, without any trouble from the Constitution; and it would require ing'knious argument to show
that there might not be a return to the law as it was in
1800. It is all a matter of statute. But for statute, the
income taxed would belong to the husband, and there
would-be no question about it.
I will add a few words that seem to me superfluous. It
is said that Wisconsin has taken away the former characteristics of the marriage state. But it has said in so many
words that it keeps this one. And when the legislature,
clearly indicates that it means to accomplish a certain
result within its power to accomplish, itis our business
to supply any formula that the elegantia juris may seepn
to require. Sexton v. Kessler & Co., 225 U. S. 90, 97.
The statute is just!iied also by its tendency to prevent
tax evasion. No doubt, if, as was held in Schlesinger v.
Wisconsin, 270 U. S. 230, with regard to the measure
then before the Court, there was no reasonable relation
between! the law and the evil, 'the statute could n*ot
be upheld. But the fact that t might reach innocent
people does not condemn it. It has been decided too
often to be open to question, that administrative necessity may justify the inclusion of 'innocent objects or trans-

BRADFORD ELECTRIC CO. v. CLAPPER.
206

221

Counsel for Appellant.

actions within a prohibited class. Purity Extract Co. v.
Lynch, 226 U. S. 192, 201, 204. Ruppert v. Caffey, 251
U. S. 264, 283. Hebe Co. v. Shaw, 248 U. S. 297, 303.
Pierce Oil Corp. v'. Hope, 248 U. S., 498, 500. Euclid v.
Ambler Co., 272 U. S. 365, 388, 3"89. Tyler v. United
States, 281 U. S. 497, 505. Milliken v. United States, 283

U. S. 15, 20.
MR. JUSTI.CE BRAwDEmS and MR. JUSTICE ST6NE concur

in this opinion.

__

_.

BRADFORD ELECTRIC LIGHT CO., INC., v.
CLAPPER, ADMINISTRATRIX.
APPEAL FROM AND PETITIOI& FOR CERTIORARI TO'THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 423. Jurisdictional statement submitted November 23,. 1931.Decided December 7,.1931.
1. A decision of a Circuit Court of Appeals that the policy of a State
allowing, actions for personal injuries due to negligence sustained
within hecr territory can not be changed by contract of the parties,
-made by their acceptance of the workmen's compensation statute
of another State doing away with such actions,--held not a'decision
against the validity of the statute and therefore not reviewable by
appeal. Jud. Code, § 240 (b). Public Service Commission v.
Batesville Telephone Co., ante, p. 6. P: 222.
2. In a case from the Circuit Court of Appeals where appeal does not
lie but has been improvidently taken, application may be made for
a writ of certiorari under .§ 240 (a). The application must be
made within the time limit. P. 223.
Appeal from, 51 F. (2d) 992, 999, 1000, dismissed.

Certiorari granted.
and alplication for certiorari to review a judgment of the Circuit- Court of Appeals affirming a recovery
in an action for personal injuries, which had been removed
from the state court.
APPEAL

Messrs. Wm. E. Leahy and George T. Hughes were on
the brief for appellant,

