HODGE CO. v. CINCINNATI.

335

Opinion of the Court.

HODGE DRIVE-IT-YOURSELF CO. ET AL. v. CIN-

CINNATI ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREMP COURT OF OHIO.

No. 63. Argued November 30, 1931.-Decided January 4, 1932.
An ordinance requiring that persons engaged -in the business of let.ting out automobiles to be driven by and for the use of those who
hire them shall pay license fees on the vehicles and deposit instrance policies or bonds for the protection of p'ersons and property

against negligent operation of the vehicles by their lessees, swstaied in view of the state power.over public highways, and in the
'absence of any showing that the regulation was arbitrarily burdensome or based on arbitrary or'capriciou" classifications." P. 337.
123 Oh. St; 284, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment sustaining a city ordinance in

a suit to enjoin its enforcement.
Mr. Julius R. Samuels for appellants.
Messrs. John D. Ellis, City Solicitor of Cincinnati, and
"JdcobHauptman,Assistant Solicitor, were on the brief for
appellees.
MP-JusTicE BUTLER delivered the opinioii of the Court.
The appellants sued the city, its mayor and other
officers in the court'of common pleas of Hamilton county
to enigin the enforcement of oridinance No. 50-1929 on the
ground "of repugnancy to the due process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment. After a
trial at which evidence was taken, that :court found the
provisiotis invalid and granted permanent injunction.
The court of appeais tried the case de novo and sustained
"he-ordinance;. its judgment was affirmed in the highest
court of the State. 123 Ohio St.-284; 175 N. E. 196.

336

33:OCTOBER TERM, 13i.
Opinionrbf the Court

284 U.S.

The ordinance', classifies driverless automobiles- for
hire ' as public vehicles, imposes license fees'for their use
upon-the streets and requires persons engaged in the business of leasing, such, automobiles to deposit with the city
treasurer insurance' policies or bonds in specified sums for
'the protection of persons injured or whose property may
be damaged as a resulf of lessees' negligent operation,
maintenance or-use of 5uch 'vehicles.
*Each appeliant. -owns automobiles and is zcarrying on
the -business of leasing them for compensation based'on
mileage, to be driven by th. lessees'on th city streets
and elsewheie. M-iay .insurance companies which formerly carried the risks specified iii the ordinance decline to'
issue such-policies; but some are offering rates, at the
option of the insured, of $232.50 per vehicle per year or
.ten per cent. of'the&gross earnings, which on the average
amount to approximately $1,800' per year. -. Appellants maintain that the measure constitutes an
unieasonabl6 interference 'with a purely private business
and is not one forthe regulation'of the use of streets; that
it attempts to,-convert appellants into public utilities-and
impose upon them liability without fault, and that it'is
discriminatory and oppressive.
"Sec. 65-1 b. The term 'public vehiceks' shall apply to all vehicles furnishing individual service as a business in the transportation
of persons, -which "are hereby classified as (1) public vehicles which,
seek their business, or a part thereof, ,on the public streets or quasipublic places, to wit; ':taxicabs,' and (2) public vehicles which use
the public streets foF the purpose of transporting passengbrs for hire,
but which do not seek-their business thereon, or in quasi-public places,
to wit:" aitosforhire,' ' drivrless autosforhire' and 'funeral cars."
"Sec, 65-1 e. The'term 'driverless autosforhire' shall includd any
public vehicle whichisyrented or hired out to a person other than, the
owner, and operated by the person renting or hiring the amr6 for
his o .,use -and hot for the purpose of transporting persons for
compensation."
-

HODGE CO.'v. CINCINNATI.
335

Opinion of the Court.

Unquestionably, appellants contemplatejthat those hiring their cars will operate themn upoii the streets. In fact.
such use of the s6reets is essential to appellants' business.
-It is a *specialand extraordinary use nmaterially differing
from operation of automobiles or trucks by owners or their
chauffeurs in the usul way for private ends. The running of automobiles necessarily is attended by danger to
persons and property in the vicinity; and, when they are
negligently driven upon city streets, the peril is great.
The court below found that the operation of automobiles
by such hirers is extra-hazardous to the public. The State
has power for the safety of the public to regulate the use
of its public highways. Hendrick v. Maryland, 235 U. S.
610, 622. *.Kane V. New Jersey, 242 U. S. 160, 167.
Sprout v. South Bend, "277 U. S. 163, 168. It may prohibit or condition as it deems proper the use of city streets
as a place for the carrying oii of private business. This
Court has: sustained a state law requiring reasonable security for the protection of persons in-respect of injuries
and losses caused by the negligent operation of motor
vehicles engaged in carrying persons for hire. Packardv.
Banton,-264 U. S.140, 144. Cf. Hess v. Pawloski, 274
U. S.352, 356. Such measures,.so far as concerns constitutional validity, are not distinguishable from the ordinance under consideratiofn. San Antonio v. Besteiro (Tex.
Civ. App.) 209 S.W. 472. Welch v. Hartiett, 127 Misc.,
221; 215 "N.Y. S.540.
This ordinance is not dn interference with"or regulation
of a businesi that has no relation to matters of public
concern; it rests upon the power of the city to prescribe
the terms upon which it will permit the use of its streets to
carry on business for gain. It does not attempt to impose
any burden or. duty that is peculiar'to public utilities.
Our decisions in-,Miohigan-Commissionv. Duke,,266 U. S,
570, -and Frost v. Railroad Comm. 271 U. S. 583, do not
85912o-32-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.

338

Syllabus.

284.U.s.

apply here. Nor does the ordinance attempt to make
hirers the agents or employees of the owners or to'make
the latter liable _or the negligence. of the former. It
merely requires the giving of security that lessees shall
"respond in damage for their own tortious acts." 123
0. S. 284; 175 N. E. 196. There is no showing that the
conditions imposed'are arbitrarily burdensome or that the
measure in any way operates to deprive appellants of
property without due process of law.
. There is nothing on the face of the ordinance or in the
evidence or findings below to warrant the conclusion that
the classification, ยง 65-1 b, is capricious, aibitrary or so
lacking in foundation as to contravene the equal protection clause. Truax v. Corrigan, 257 U. S. 312, 333.
Power Mfg. Co. v. Saunders, 274 U.: S. 400, 493. QuakerCity Cab Co. v. Pennsylvania, 277 U. S. 389, 400. The
record fails to show that the enforcement. of tFe ordinance
does or will substantially discriminate against the business
of iappellants. The claim of repugnancy to the equality
clause canniot be supported by mere speculation or conjecture.
Judgment affirmed.
,SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO. v. KENTUCKY.*
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF KENTUCKY.

No. 300.

Argued December 4, 7, 1931.-Decided January 4, 1932.

1. The former decision of this Court (274 U. S. 76) respecting taxes
on additional intangible values attributed to part of the Kentucky
mileage of appellant's interstate railway system, and holding such
valuations to be so excessive and arbitrary as in reality to include
property outside of the State and result in violation of the due
*

Together with No. 301, Mellon, Director General of Railroads,

v. Kentucky.

