REALTY CO. v. MONTGOMERY.
Argument for Petitioner.

REALTY ACCEPTANCE CORP. v. MONTGOMERY.
CERTIORARI TO TH1E CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 314. Argued January 12, 1932.-Decided February 15, 1932.
1. The District Court has no power to set aside its judgment after
the term, for the purpose of hearing newly* discovered evidence.
P. 549.
2. The Circuit Court of Appeals has no original jurisdiction, and has
only such appellate jurisdiction as is conferred by statute. Id.
3. Section 701 of the Revised Statutes, providing that this Court
may affirm, modify or reverse judgments of federal courts brought
before it for review, or may direct such judgment or order to be
rendered, or such further proceedings to be had, by the inferior
court, as justice may require, which section was made applicable
to the Circuit Courts of Appeals by the Judiciary Act of 1891, does
not authorize a Circuit Court of Appeals to reverse a judgment at
law in which it has found no error upon the record, and to remand
the case to the District Court in order that that court may reopen
it after expiration of the term at which such judgment was rendered, for the purpose of hearing new evidence. P. 550.
4. Where the Circuit Court of,Appeals first affirms a judgment for
lack of error in the record, and thereafter rescinds the affl-mance
and dismisses the appeal, its action is final and deprives it of all
power to add to or alter the record as certified. P. 551.
51 F. (2d) 642, affirmed.
CERTIORRlI * to review two orders of the Circuit Court
of Appeals, one reversing an order" of the District Court
granting a new trial, the other vacating its own previous
order whereby it had dismissed an appeal "withoutprejudice ".and remanded the case to enable the,District Court
to grant such new trial.

Mr. R. Randolph Hicks, with whom Mr. Charles F.
.Curley was on the brief, for petitioner. They cited:
Angle v. United States, 162 Fed, 264; Martin v. United
States, 17 F. (2d) 973; Scott v. United States, 165 Fed..
* See table of cases reportg

in this volume.

S.48

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U.S.

172; Davis v. United States, 47 F. (2d) 1071; Perry v.
United States, 39 F. (2d) 52; Larrisom v. United States,
24 F. (2d) 82; Gasoline Products Co.v. Champlin Refining Co., 283 U. S.494; Ballew v. United States, 160 U. S.
187; Kendall v. Ewart,259 U. S. 139; Hazeltine v. W7dermuth, 35 F. (2d) 733. Distinguishing: United States v.
Mayer, 235 U. S.- 55; Roemer v. Simon, 91 U. S. 149;
Russell v. Southard, 12 How. 138.
Mr. Thomas J. Crawford, with whom Mr. Robert H.
Richards was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE RoBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The petitioner complains of two orders entered by the
Circuit Court of Appeals, one which reversed an order
of the District Court setting aside a judgment entered
at an earlier term and granting a motion for new trial
-for the purpose of considering certain newly discovered
evidence as to damages, and the other, which vacated.
its own. order previously, entered dismissing an appeal
ifrom the.same judgment and, remanding the, cause so
that the District Court might, in the exercise of its discretion, grant such new trial.
At the March term, 1929, respondent recovered judgment'against petitioner for the breach of a contract of
employment. An appeal was perfected to the Circuit
Court of Appeals, was heard in that court subsequent to
tle expiration of the term of the District Court, and re-.
sulted in an affirmance. Petitioner. filed a motion for
rehearing, and before disposition thereof presented a petition setting forth that at trial the respondent had failed
to disclose certain earnings of which he had been in receipt, which should haive: been taken into account in mitigation of damages; that these facts had been discovered
after appeMi from the-judgihefit; tha then hdate of he

REALTY CO. v. MONTGOMERY.
547

Opinion of the Court.'

Court of Appeals should be stayed to afford the District
Court opportunity, if it thought proper, to request thereturn of the record so that the judgment could be opened'
and, if justice should so require, a; new trial be granted on
the issue of the quantum of damages. This petition was
granted, respondent applied to the District Court, and
that court requested the Court of' Appeals to return the
record for the purpose mentioned. Thereupon the latter
court made an order vacating its affirmance of the judgment and dismissing the appeal, thus returning the record
to the District Court, which then entertained a motion for
a new trial, found the evidence newly discovered within
the applicable rule of law, set aside the judgment, and
granted a new trial. Respondent then appealed to the
Circuit Court of Appeals, assigning this action as error.
The latter court held that except for its own orders the
District Court would have been without authority to'set
aside the judgment after-the term had expjired; that no
additional power had-been conferred upon the trial court
by the previously recited orders in the appellate proceedings; and that there had been error in dismissing the first
appeal. Accordingly it reversed the District Court's 'order
granting a new trial, revoked its own order 'dismissing the
first appeal, overruled the petition for a rehearing therein,
and reinstated the order affirming the original judgment
of the District Court.
The petitioner concedes the District Court lacked power
to set aside its judgment after the expiration of the term
for the purpose of hearing newly discovered evidence
(United States v. Mayer, 235 U. S. 55, 67; Delaware, L.
& W. R. Co. v. Rellstab, 276 U. S. 1); it admits the Circuit
Court of Appeals has no original jurisdiction, and possesses
only such appellate jurisdiction as is conferred by statute.
United States v. Jahn, 155 U. S. 109, 112; Whitney v.
Dick, 202 U. S. 132; United States v. Mayer, supra.

550

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U. S.

But the claim is that ยง 701 of the Revised Statutes,
which defines our appellate jurisdiction, and is made applicable to the Circuit Courts of Appeals by the Act of
March 3, 1891, c. 517, ยง 11, 26 Stat. 829 (sed Ballew '-v.
United States, 1601U. S. 187), authorizes those courts, in
the proceeding in error, to set aside a judgment and
receive additional evidence, if justice so requires, and that
such power may also be exercised by remanding the cause
to the trial court for similar proceedings. The section is
copied in the margin.'
Stress is placed upon the point that in addition to-mere
power to affirm, reverse or modify, jurisdiction is given
in the alternative to order such judgment to be rendered
or such further proceedings to be had by the inferior
court as the justice of the case may require. From this
th6 conclusion is that, though no error appears in the
record justifying a modification or reversal, the appellate
court may, if justice so demands, take further proof which
the trial. court, would be powerless to receive because its
term has ended, and on. the basis of such proof reverse
or modify the judgment. In addition the contention is
that, though there be no error upon the face of the record,
the section'authorizes its return to the louver court for the
opening of the judgment and reception of newly disoovered evidence.
The section has been construed as applying to cases
where a judgment or decree.is affirmed upofil appeal afid
further proceedings in the court below are appropriate in
"The Supreme Court may affirm, modify, or reverse any judgment, decree, or order of a circuit court, or district court acting as'
a circuit court, or of a district court in prize causes, lawfuly brought
before it for review, or may direct such judgment, decree, or order
to be rendered, or such further proceedings to be had by the iiferior
,court, as the justice of the case may require. The Supreme Court
shall not Issue execution in a cause removed before it from such
-ourts, but shall send a special mandate to the inferior court to
award execution thereupon."

REALTY CO. v. MONTGOMERY.
547

551

Opinion of the Court.

aid of the relief granted. And the statute warrants the
giving of directions by an appellate court for further
"proceedings
below in conformity with a modification or.a
reversal of a judgment where, in consequence of such
action, such proceedings should be had. Insurance Co. -v.
Piaggio, 16 Wall. 378; Little Miami & C. X. R. Co. it,
United States, 108 U. S. 277, 280; Fort Scott v. Hickman,
112 U. S. 150, 165; Pullman Car Co. v. Metropolitan Ry.
Co., 157 U. S. 94, 112; United States v. Eaton, 169 U. S.
331, 352; Camp v. Gress,250 U.S.308,318; Cole v. Ralph,
252 U. S. 286; Kendall v. Ewert, 259 U. S. 139. Ballew v
United States, supra, on which petitioner relies, went"no
farther than this; for there a judgment was 'reversed i11
part. Nothing was there said to indicate that this court
would order further proceedings below to attack or set
aside a judgment entered on a record which disclosed no
error calling for a modification or reversal. No authority
is cited in which R. S. 701 has been construed as extending
this court's powers in the manner for which petitioner
contendts. Roemer v. Simon, 91 U. 8, 149, is to the con-

trary. The holding was that upon an appeal in equity
this court could not upon motion set aside the decree oi
the court below and grant a rehearing, apd could not
receive new evidence; and, further, that as the'court below was without power to grant a rehearing after the
term at which the decree was entered, the remanding of
the cause for suclh purpose would be useless. The opinion
adds that if the term had not expired the appellate court
might in a proper case upon request of the court below,
return the record, for the opening of the decree and for
rehearing.
In the present case there is a further conclusive reason why the remission of' the cause to the District Court
was ineffective to give authority to hear the motion to set
the Ciraside
the judgment.
and
the record
error in appeal
foundthe
no original
of Appeals Upon
cuit Court

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
" Syllabus.,

284U.S.

affirmed the judgment, but. subsequently rescinded the
order of affirmance And, dismissed :he appeal. This action was final, ended the case in that court, and deprived
it of all power to add to or alter the record as certified.
Since there was no case pending, power, was wanting to
make any order granting leave to the court below for any
ptrpose. The attempt by remanding the record, with
leave to the court below to take action which would
otherwise .h4ve been beyond its powers, left the matter
'precisely as if no such order had been made.
It follows that the Circuit Court correctly held that
what was done subsequently to the affirmance of the
judgment in the first appeal was improvident and'unauthorized and should be rescinded, and the order which
accomplished this end and reinstated the original judgment is
Affirmed.
:MR. JUSTICE, SToE took no part in the consideration
or decision of this: case.

OLD COLONY RAILROAD CO. v. COMMISSIONER
OF INTERNAL' REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO .THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPPALS FOR TH.
FIRST CIRCUIT.
No. 34.

Argued January 18, 1932.-Decided February 15, 1932,

1. Under Treasury Regulations promulgated by authority of the Revenue Act of 1921, the net amount of premium"received by a corpo-ration from subscribers to iAs bonds is income.' P. 557.
2. The repeated reenactmbnt of a statute without substantial change
is evidence of an'implied legislative approval of a!construction
placed upon it by executive officers. Id.
3. Where a corporation issued its bonds at a premium, which was
received prior to the adoption of the Sixteenth Amendment, the

