WESTERN PACIFIC v. SOUTH. PAC. CO.
44

Syllabus.

and applicable principles of common'law as interpreted
and applied in'the federal courts. 'Seaboard Air Line v.
Horton,233 U. S. 492 508; Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co.v.
De Atley, .241U. S. 310; Boldt v. PennsylvaniaR. Co., 245
U. S.441, 445; New Orleans& N. E. R. Co. v. Harris,247
U. S. 367,,371; Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co. v.
.Coogan,271 U. S.472, 474.

The Court of Appeals acted upon the erroneous theory
that it should follow the views of the Supreme Court of
the State rather than those of this Cotirt 'in respect of
questions aris ng under the Liability Act. That statute,
as interpreted by this Court, is the supreme law to be
applied by all courts, federal and state. Second Em-

ployers' Liability Cases, 223 U.. S.1, 57, 58. Where this
view is not accepted, as in the present cause, it is within
the power of this Court to determine and apply the
proper remedy:
The judgment below is reversed. The cause will be
remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with
this opinion.
Reversed.
WESTERN PACIFIC CALIFORNIA RAILROAD CO.
v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF. APPEALS FOR'THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 51.: Argued October 27, 1931. -Decided Novdmber 23, 1931.
1. In order to constitute a railroad company a "party in interest"
within the meaning of § 402, par. 18, of .the Transportation- Act,
1920, and thereby entitle- it to maintain a suit to enjoin another
railr6ad company from extending its line without having first obtained a certificate of public convenience and necessity from the
Interstate Commerce Commission, it is not essential that the company suing have a legal right for which it might ask protection
-under the otdinary rules of equity;, but it will suffice if the bill
disclose either that some definite legal right of the plaintiff isseii-

48

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284U.S.

ously threatened or that the unauthorized, and therefore unlawful,
action of the defendant may directly and adversely affect the plaintiff's welfare by bringing about some anaterial change in the trans-

portation situation.

P. 50.

2. A railroad c6mpany which had definitely located its line and-*hose
application for authority to consttuct was pending befor6 the Interstate Commerce Commission and was being opposed by a company
operating h line substantially parallel to the one projected, held a
,party in interest" entitled, under § 402, par. 20, of the Transjrtation Ac.t .to maintain suit to enjoin th second carrier fiom
-constructing, without authority from the Commission, what. was
alleed to be an "extension" of that carrier's line across the plaintiff's 1projected line and beyond, with the purpose, of Impeding and
preventing the plaintiff's proposed construction and operation, and
also of securing traffic from a district adjacent to plaifitiff's projected line, the industrial development of which was anticipated.
Pp. 49-52.
46 F. (2d) 729, reyersed.

CERToRmni, 283 U. S. 816, to review a decree which
reversed a decree of the District Court enjoining railroad
construction whichthat courfound to be an " extension."
The injunction was to continue unless-and until a certificate of public convenience and necessity should be
granted by the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr. F. M. Angellotti, with whom Mr. H. P. Tyler was
on.the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. J. R. Bell, with whom Messrs. C. 0. Amonette,
H. C. Booth, C. W. Durbrow, and Guy V. Shozp were on
the brief, for respondent.
1MR. JUSTICE MCREYNoJDs delivered the opinion of the
Court.
By an ameended-bill presented to the Uited States Distriot Court, Northern District of California, April 5,
1929, petitioner soughit to prevent respondent from constructing an alleged extension until permission should: be
obtained from the Interstate Comnerce Commission as.

WESTERN. PACIFIC v. SOUTH. PAC. CO.
47

49

Opinion of the Court

provided by Transportation Act of 1920,

c. 91, § 402,

18, 19,.20, 21, 22, 41 Stat. 456, 477, 478.1
The petitioner is a railroad corpoation organized under
the laws of California to construct and operate a standard
steam railroad from San Francisco southward along the
western shore of San Francisco Bay and to Redwood
City in San Mateo County. The proposed line, approximately 25 miles in length, lies eastward of, near, and substantially parallel toy a line operated by the respondent.
In July, 1928, petitioner's directors authoized application
to the Interstate Commerce Commission for authority to
c6nstruct the proposed road, and this was promptly pre-sented.- During the following August, September and
-October, surveys of the route were made; a definite location was adopted in March, 1929:
The Interstate Commerce Co
ssion heard the application in January, 1929; the Southern Pacific Company
'appeared in oppositioh. Prior to the filing of the bill the
'Transportation Act 1920, § 402Paragraph "(18) ... no carrier by railroad subject to this Act shall
undertake the extension of its line of railroad-.., unless and until
there shall first have been obtained from the Commission a certificAte
that the present or future public convenience and necessity require
or will require the construction .. . of such ... extended line . . !'
Paragral.h "(19) The application for and issuance of any such certificat'shall be under such rules and regulations as to hearings and
other matters 'as the Commission may from time to time prescribe,
.. Paragraph "(20) ... Any construction... contrary to the
provisions... of paragraph (18)' .. may be enjoined by any
court of competent jurisdiction at the suit of... any party in
interest.... 2' Paragraph "(21) The Commission may, after hearing,
in a proceeding upon complaint or upon its own initiative without
complaint, authorize or require by order any carrier by railroad subject to this Act, party to such proceeding, to provide itself with safe
and adequate facilities.'. ., and to extend its line or lines . .."
Paragraph "(22) Th authority of the'Commission conferred by paragraphs (18) to (21) both inclusive, shall not extend to the construction.., of spur, industrial, team, switching or side tracks,..., t9
be located
wholly within one State .. ,"
-.
8U912°*--32--,----

50

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284U.S.

Commission had taken no final action, nor had actual construction of the proposed road begun.
The respondent, as owner or lessee, operates an extensive interstate railroad system, including a double track
line from San Francisco soutthward through Redwood
City. In March, 1929, it began to lay tracks in San Mateo
County with the intention that they should ultimately extend from its main line some eighty-two hundred feet
easterly and across petitioner's proposed route to points
along the Bay. Its purpose was to impede and prevent
petitioner's proposed construction and-operatiQn; also to
.secure traffic from a district adjacent to the petitioner's
proposed line, the industrial development of which was
anticipated.
In defense to the bill respondent relied especially upon
two grounds. First, that petitioner was not a "party-in
interest" within the meaning-of the Transportation Act,
and therefore could not maintain the suit. .Se6ond, that
the line which it had commenced to construct would not
become an extension, but a mere industrial, or spur, track.
The trial court considered and rejected both grounds of
defense ,and directed an injunction as prayed.
The Circuit Court of Appeals was of opinion that,.-in
the circumstances, the petitioner was not 'a party in
interest," and upon that ground reversed the decree of the
trial court. It expressed no opinion in respect of the
second defense. This action, we think, was error; and its
decree must be reversed. The cause will be remanded
there for determination of the question of fact.
Paragraphs 18. to 22, supra, were considered' here in
Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Ry.
Co., 270 U. S.. 266, and were declared to be part of the
general plan by which Congress intended-to promote development and maintenance of adequate railroad facilities. It was there said, p. 277: "It [Congress] recognized
that preservation of the earning capacity, and conserva-

WESTERN PACIFIC v. SOUTH. PAC. CO.
47

Opinion of the Court.

tion of the financial resources, of individual carriers is a
matter of national concern; that the property employed
must be permitted to earn a reasonable return; that the.
building of unnecessary lines involves a waste of resources
and that the burden of this waste may fall upon the public; that competition between carriers may result in harm
to the public as well.as in benefit; and that when a railroad inflicts injury upon its rival, it may be the public
which ultimately bears the loss. See Railroad Commission v. Chicago, B. & Q.R. Co., 257 U. S: 563; New England Divisions Case, 261 U. S. 184; Chicago Junction
Case, 264 U. S.258; Railroad Comnmission v.. Southern
Pacific Co., 264 U. S.331. The Act sought, among other
things, to avert such losses."
The Texas & Pacific Ry. sought to prevent an unauthorized competitor from building an extension into territory already served by it. Prior to-the statute, it could
not have maintained such, a suit, since the competitor's.
proposed action did not threaten interference with any
legal right. No carrier could then demand exemption
from honest competition.
If, as the court below seems to have assumed, a "party
in interest" must possess- some clear legal right for which
it might ask protection unuer the rules commonly accepted
by courts of equity,. the paragraphs under consideration
would not materially aid the Congressional plan for promoting transportation. On the other hand, there was
no purpose to permit any individual so inclined to institute such a proceeding. The complainant must possess
something more than a common concern for obedience
to law. See Massachusettsv. Mellon, 262 U. S.447, 488.
It will suffice, we think, if the bill discloses that some
definite legal right possessed by complainant is seriously.
threatened or that the unauthorized and therefore unlawFul action of the defendant carrier may directly and adversely affect the complainant's welfare by bringing about

'52

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

284-U.S.

some tnaterial change in the tr~nspotati6n situation.
Here, the petitibner -was pculiaily concerned;, its own
welf ar'ewas seriously threatened,--It-Alleged the leginnihg
of an unlawful indertakiigby axarrier which might prove
deletenios I*o it as-well as to the l ublicnterest in securing an~d maintaining properlsrailroad servite'Without undue loss. It relied upon the promedure prescribed by the
statute tosecure an orderly hearing-and proper defermina,-

tionI qf 'the matter. The disclosures of -the bill were
enough to show that the-.rdspondent's intended action
might directly and seriously afect the project which complainant Was undertaking- in good. faith. There was
enough to give the latterthe standing-of a "party in interest" within intendment of the Act.

Rev~efsed.
PERAMTIT CO. v. GRAVER - CORPORATION:
,CERTIORARI TO, THE CIRCUIT, COURT- OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVtNTH CIRCUIT.

No. 3., Argued October 15, 16, 1931.--Deiided.Noirember 23, 1931.
1.'A patent which fails t'o describe in The speification, and to point
out particularly and distinctly claim, an invention or discovery, is
V
void. -R..S. §4888. 1P 57':
2. While drawinis may be referred 'to-for illustration and-xnay be
used as an aid in interpreting the sp'cificatibn or claim, they are
of no avail where there is an-entire absence of description of the
allege& invention or a failure to clan if P. 6(.
4
. Patent 1 o. 1,195,923 (Claimis 1 and 5) to Gaiis, for an app'aratus
for softening watdr, is void, 'for want of disclosure and. want of
invention., Pp. 57-6 0:"
T
apparatus employs the process. of' softening water by means
of zeolites, which take up-calcium and magnesium fromlhard water,
giving up their,sodium base, and are" regenerated". when washed
by a solution'of common salt. The light zeolite particles rest.uppn
a -filter-bed of Sand uLLd gravel- withL the container in. -which th&
!:-egeneratixijsalt solu-water is treatid. When the
tioni, is flowed through -them fromi belowi- they: are 'iely to be

