OCTOBER-- TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

284 U.S.

Ry. Co. v Schwyhart, 227 U S. 184. The facts disclosed
in this record fall far short of proof of.actual fraud such
as was held sufficient to 'justify removal in Morris v.
Cilmer, 129 U. S. 315,. Lehigh Mining & Mfg. Cq. v.
Kelly, 160, U S. 3271, Lake County Commzssoners V
Dudley, 173U S., 243, Wecker v Natwnal Enameling &
Stamping ,Co.,- 204 U S. 176,, and, Wilson v.- Republic
Iron Co., 257 U S. 192.
The case comes to no- more than this: There being,
under Oklahoma law, aright to have a nonresident appointed administrator, the parties, ininterest lawfully
applied to an Oklahoma court, and petitioner was -appointed admimstratpr, with the result that the cause
of action for the wrongful death of the decedent vested m
him. His citizenship being the same as.that of one og the
defendants, there was no right of xemoval to the federal
court; and i, is inmaterial that, the motive for- obtaining
his appointment and qualification was that he might thus
be clothed with a right t o institute an action which could
not be so removed on the ground ofdiversity of citizenship.
.thatthe petIitiner's motion to reWe are-of opimni
mand the- cause to the state court should haye been
granted. The judgment must be roversed, and the cause
remanded to the-United States.Distnct Courtwith directions to set aside the judgment and remand the case to
the state, ourt,..
Reversed.

,SOUTHERN.: RAILWAY CO. v.,-WALTERS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH ItCICUIT.

No.,52, Argued October- 27, 28, 1931.-Decided November 23, 1931.
Upon revieiv of an action against a railroad company to recover damnages 'forpersonal injuries sustamed-in n -accident at 4 crossing, the

SOUTHERN, RY CO. v. WALTERS.
190

191

Opinion of the' Court.

case having been -sifimitted to the jury non an issue under a
specification of negligence charging the defendant' with 'falure to
stop the train and flag the-,ciossing beforeproceeding over it;:_s
required by an orde, of a state, commission, held:,
.
1. The contention that an inference that the train, could not have
made a full stop it the crossing in question might be drawn from
its speed.at other crcssings as observed by witnesses and from a.
guess of 'the 'engineer as to its acceleration, was; under all the
circumstances, mere speculation. ,P.. 194.
2. The eyidence in ,the record -onthe issue whether. 'the train
was stopped before going over the crossing was, so insubstantial
and insufficient that.it did not justify submission of that-issue t6
the jury.-'I.
"
3. 'There being no proof whatevei-that the aileged failure toi'stop
at -the crossing was the proximate cause 'of the injury, 'a directed
verdict i favor of the defendant -should ,have been given. Pp.
194-195.
47 F. (2d) 3, reversed.
C
IuRAio, 283 U. S.815, to review a judgment affirming a judgment: against the railroad c6mpany in an' action
bi"damages for personal'injries. '- The actio n' had' been

removedto the District Court on the grofind of diversity
of citizenship.

Mr. Bruce A. Campbell, with whom Messrs. H., O'B.
Cooper, Rudolph J. Krameri, L. t. Jeffries and S._R.iPrince
were on the 'brief, for petitioner.

Mr. Charles A. Lich, withwhom Mr. Luuis E. Miller
was on the brief, for respondent.!
AMTk. JUsTICU AROBeRTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This action was instituted in a state'court ' ad removed
to the District Court for Eastern Missouri. ,Respondent,'
the minor plaintiff, averred in his declaration, that as he
was in the act of crossing defendant's track-on Bond Avenue, East St. Lbuis, he was struck by a train and seriously
injured. The negligence alleged was failure to, sound 'a;

192,

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion -of the Court.

284 U.S..

-bell or other signal when the train. was approaching the
crossing, failure to. maintain a propei and sufficient lookout, and failure to comply with an order of. the IllinoisCommerce Commission requiring defendant to stop"all
trains and flag the crossing before they crossed Bond Avenue. The aInswer was a general denial.
At the trial both. parties presented, proofs, and at the
close of the plaintiff's case, as well as at the conclusion
of all the evidence, the defendant moved for a binding
direction, which was refused. The trial judge withdrewfrom th*e jury's consideration all the specifications of negligence except that which charged a, failure to stop the
train and flag the crossing before proceeding over Bond
Avenue. He charged the jury that if these precautions
were omitted tho verdict should be for plaintiff, but if
they were observed, they should find for defendant. The
•jury- found for the plaintiff, and on appeal the Circuit
Court of Appeals affirmed a judgment entered upon that
verdict. 47 F. (2d) 3. This Court granted certiorari.
We need consider only whether upon the whole case
defendant was entitled to a binding direction.
The tracks on which the accident occurred extend from
the railway company's- main line to a freight'yard and
run approximately north and. south, almost parallel' with,
and some seventy-five feet west of, Eighth 9treet. Bond
Avenue, which extends eastwardly and westwardly, crosses
the tracks at a right angle. The traiminvolved -inthe accident consisted of a locomotive -running tender-first and
pulling fty freight carsin a; northerly direction from the
freight yard towards the main tracls.
The plaintiff called four adult witnesses who were at
the scene of the .accident, none of whom saw its actual
occurrence. Each of them was to the east of the train and
each first noticed the plaintiff lying to the west of it after
the locomotive and several cars had completely crossed
Bond Avenue,

SOUTHERN RY. CO. v. WALTERS.
0

-

193

Opinion 6Ethe Court.

The plaintiff, who was betweenfive and six years of age
at the time of the accident, testified that he was about to
dross the railroad tracks from west to east and.was- struck
by the front of'the locomotive. He stated repeitedly that
the train was coming from the north, whereas it,is beyond
question that it was coming from the south; and he described the portion of the locomotive which struck him as
the front end which had the cowcather and headlight on
it, although it is beyond question that the tender was in
front. He twice denied that he saw the triin before he was
struck, then said he-aw it half a block distant when he
was on'the first track (there.were three tracks at this point
and the train was on the easternmost) and did not see it
again until just as he was struck. He did not testify
whether or not the train stopped.
A boy, nine yeairs old at the date of'the occurrence, who
wqs standing near the crossing, deposed that several boys
traversed the tracks before the train reached Bond Avenue, -and that the plaintiff, following these boys, was hit
by it-and thrown back. He stated there was a box car in
front of the locomotive, and that the car had passed-before
the jllaintiff received his injury. He probably confused
the tender with a box car, and his description of the accident would indicate that the plaintiff collided with the
side'of the locomotive near the cab.
A girl, who was ten years old at the time of the accident, testified that she saw the occurrence from the vestibule of a school house located south of Bond Avenue and
west of the railroad tracks. She stated that she was able
to see what happened by-looking throughan aperture in
a board fence caused by the falling down of a gate inthe
fence. The only gate to which her testimony could have
referred was at-a point so situated with reference to the
crcssing as to render it impossible for one standing where
she was to see the crossing through the gateway. She
says the locomotive struck the plaintiff, but does not say
95912!-32

1-3

194

OCTOBER TERM,. 1931:
Opinion of. the Court.

284 U.S.

what part of it came into contact with him. She also
states that the train did not stop before entering upon
the crossing.
Only one of the adult witnesses stated the train did,
not come to a stop. She was a passenger in an, automobile, traveling west on Bond Avenue, which was held up
by the passing train.. This testimony was shown to have
no adequate foundation by her admission that when she
first noticed the train the l6comotive and several cars had
crossed Bond Avenue.
It is argued that it may be inferred from the speed of
the train when some of the witne sse's observed it ,crossing
other streets as well as Bond Avenue, and from a guess
of the engineer as to the time required to get. up such
speed after a full'stop, that none could have been made atBond Avenue. But the argument amounts to mere speculation in-view -of the limited scope of the witnesses' observation, the. down grade of.the railway tracks at the
point,, and the time element involved. (Compare Chicago,
M. & St. P. R. Co. v. Coogan, 271 U. S. 472.) Five witnesses for defendant testified that a full-stop was made
and the crossing flagged, and that no one was hit by the
rar of the tender, which was the front of the train.
.Anexamination of the record requires the conclusion
that the evidence on the issue whether the train was
-stopped before crossing Bond Avenue was so insubstantial and insufficient that it did not justify a submission of
that issue to the jury. Gulf M. & N. R. Co.v. Wells, 275
U. S. 455; Kansas C. S. Ry. Co. v. Jones, 276 U. S. 303;
New-York Centra-R. Co. v. Ambrose, 280 U. S. 486;
Gunning v. Cooley,,281 U. S.90, 93; Atchison, T. & S. F.
By.Co. v. Tobps, 281 U. S.351.
There is no proof whatever that the alleged failure to
stop before entering the crossing was the proximate cause
of the plaintiff's injury. Such direct- testimdny as there is
on his behalf indicates P collision between him and the side

U. S. v. BALTIMORE & OHIO R. CO.
190

195

Syllabus.

of the train after. the front part of it, which in this case
was the rear end of the tender, had passed hi5n; and: all
of the evidence both for plaintiff and for defendant is
consistent with this view of what happened. It is clear
that on this ground also a binding direction in favor of
the defendant'should have been given.
- The judgment is reversed and the case remanded to the
District Court for further proceedings in conformity with
this opinion.
Reutersed.
IVR. JUSTICE STONE

took no pait in the consideration -or

decision of this case.
UNITED STATES ET AL. v. BALTIMORE ^& OHIO
RAILROAD CO. ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATri,
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.

No. 33. Argued October 23, 1931.-Decided November 30, 1931.
1. An order of the Interstate Commerce Commission prescribing a
new division of joint rates can not be made retroac.'ve to the date
of filing complaint if the rates were established by agreement of
the parties and not pursuant to any finding or order of the Com,-:
mission. Interstate Commerce Act, § 15 (6); Brimstone R. Co. v.
United States, 276 U. S. 104. -P. 199.
2. Under § 15 (2) of the Act, which requires that all orders of the
Commission other than orders for the pAyment of money, "shall
take effect within such reasonable time, not less than thirty days
according as shall be prescribed in the order," an order
prescribing a division of joint rates, which was invalid because
retroactive, could not be deemed valid as an order to become operative thirty days after it was made, nor could it be made io operative, retroactively, by a subsequent order. P. 203.
43 F. (2d) 603, affirmed.

