DE LAVAL. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
52

61

Argument. for PetitiQner.-

ents Development Co.,'-,283 U. S. 420, 421; Concrete
Appliances Co. v. Gomery, 269 U. S. 177,185.
Affirmed.
UNITED
DE LAVAL STEAM TURBINE CO. v.U
STATES.
URT OF. CLAIMS.'
CERTIORARI TO THE COI

No. 6. Argued October 16, 1931.-Decided November 23, 1931.
"Pursuant. to the Act of June 15, 1917, empowering the President
to . . I cancel, or requisition any existing or future contract for
the building, production, orpurchse of ships or material," th6 Government took over by requisition the purchasers' rights-in certain
private contracts for the manufacture and sale of marine steam
turbines. Before the contracts were performed, it canceled them.
1. That' the manufacturir -was entitled to just compensation, as
for property taken by eminent doinin, not to -damages. as for
breach cf contract. .P.,70.
2. Just compensation is thp value of-the coitracts at the time of
their cancellation. P. 72.
3. It does not-include an allowance of. anticipated profits. , Russell Motor Car Co. v. United States, 261 U. S. 514. Pp. 70-72.
4. The fact "that the contracts,- if carried out, would have beenpro.fitable, must be given proper weight in determining just compensation. P. 70.
5. The Act cited applies expressly to contracts made'before its
passage. P.73....
6. Such, contracts are entered- into subject to future exertion of
.the power of eminent domain. Id.
70 Ct. Cls. 51, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 283 U. S. 814, to review a judgment fixing
compensation for contracts requisitioned and afterwards

canceled by the Government..-

....

Mr. John Spalding Planne'y, with whom Messrs.
George C. Holtoj(George F. Losche, and Frnk F, Nesbit
were on the brief, for petitioner,

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Petitioner.

284U.S.

Before the requisitions, the purchasers had the right
to look to the petitioner to-build and deliver the turbine
equipment, and were obligated to pay the petitioner the
unpaid balance of the purchase price; and, correlatively,
petitioner had the right to build the turbine equipment
for the purchasers with whom it had contracted, in themanner, -at the times and at the prices -fixed by the. contracts, and to demand and receive from-the purchasers
the"unpaid balance of the. purchase price as provided in
the contrabts, or, if they failed to pay it, to recover from
them compensation by way of damages for breach of the
contracts, which damages would include the profits peti-.
tioner would have: realized by full perforn&ance. By the
requisitions, the contract rights and obligations 'of the
purchasers passed to the G6vernieht, Brooks-;Scanlon
Corp. v. United Stat'es, 265 U. &. 106, and the purchasers
were relieved of all their obligations under the contracts
and petitioner was deprived of its corresponding rights
founded on the purchasers' obligations. This situation
was the direct result of the requisitions, and petitioner
had no choice or say in the matter. Liggett & Myers v.
United States, 274'U. S. 215, 220. The petitioner's contract rights went with the purchasers' rights and obliga.
tions just as in'Duckett v. United States, 266 U. S. 149,
the tenant's rights under its lease of a pier. were taken
when the Government took possession and control of the
pier. MonongahelaNavigation Co. v. United States, 148'
U. S. 312; International Paper Co. v. United States, 282
U. S. 399.
By its requisitions, therefore, the Govenment took
fr6m petitioner:
(a) Physical ,property consisting of petitioner's ma,terials acquired for use in manufacturing the turbines
called for by the contracts.
(b) Intangible property consisting of petitioner's rights
under the three private contracts. These rights were'

DE LAVAL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
61

Argument for Petitioner.

,definite, certain and n6n-cancelable. Such rights 'had a
real and substantial value based upon the assured profits
petitioner would hAve realized by performance.
Obviously petitioner's right to the compensation,.
assured to it by the. Constitutign, accrued by reason of

the requisition and was not affected by what the Government did at a later'date. Russian Volunteer Fleet v.
United States, 282 U. S.481.. When the Government
canceled the coi4racts, it did not thereby relieve itself of
the legal consequences of its requisition. Brooks-Scanlon
Corp. v. United States, 265 U. S.106, '122.
-TheRussell Motor Car case, 261 U. S. 514, deals with
a cancellation by the Government of its own contract,
whereas, in the present case, the three contracts involved
are private contracts to, which the. Government was not,
in any sense, a party.
The.decision of this Court in that case, refusing to allow
anticipated profits, was predicated upon the conclusion
that thQ contract was entered into. directly with 'the
Government and, therefore, with the prospect of its cancellation in view, since the statute wAs binding and must
be read into th&contract, and the possible loss of profits
must therefore be regarded as within the cont6mplation
of the- parties. In short, when the Russell Motor Car
Company entered into its.contract with the Government
it impliedly agreed, because of the statute, that the Government should have the right to determine when the
contract might be terminated. There was, therefore, a
cancellation in the exerciseof a contract right., IA direct
contrast, these three private contracts include no mutual
agreement, express or implied, that the contracts hay
be terminated by either party.
The Court of Claims, in refusing to. allow anticipated
profits, misinterprets the decision of this Court in the
Brooks-Scanlon case as holding that prospective profits
constitute no part of just compensation in "such cases,"
-to-wit, cancellation. But see page 123 of that report.'

64

OCTOBER, TERM, 193L,
Argument for Petitioner.

284U.S.

This error becomes more apparent when viewed in the.
light of the language of this Court in Ingram-DayCo. v.
McLouth, 275 U. S. 471, 473.
The rule prescribed by this Court in the Russell case,
that prospective profits are not to be'included, is expressly
confined in its scope and application to government contracts made after the enactment of the Act.
Any such limitation upon the obligation to pay just
compensation for ,the taking .or cancellation of private
contracts results in a deprivation of the rights guaranteed
by the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution. Phelps V.
United States, 274 U. S. 341, 344.
Petitioner is entitled to just compensation in an amount
which will put it in as good position pecuniarily as it
would have been in if its contract rights and, materials
had not been expropriated. Phelps v. United States, 274
U. S. 341, 344; Campbell v. United States, 266 U. S. 368,
371; Seaboard Air Line Ry. v. United States, 261 U. S.
299, 304; Brooks-Scanlon Corp.v. United States, 265 U. S.
106; Liggett & Myers v. United States, 274 U. S. 215;
United States v. New ,River Collieries, 262 U. S. 341;
Monongahela Navigation Co. v. United States, 148 U. S.
312; Bauman v. Ross, 167 U. S. 548, 574; United States v.
Chandler-DunbarCo., 229 U. S. 53, 194.
In breach of contract and tort actions the same general
principle that the injured party is entitled to compensation in money equivalent for the loss sustained is adhered
to and applied. ?Jnited States v. Purcell Envelope Co.,
249 U. S. 313; United States v. Behan, 110 U. S. 338, 344;
United States v. Spearin, 248 U. S. 132, 135; Guerini
Stone Co. v. Carlin Construction Co., 248 U. S. 334, 347;
Williston on Contracts, Vol..III, ยง 1338; Standard Oil Co,
v. Southern Pac.Ry. Co., 268 U. S. 146. The just compensation should include the profits petitioner would have made by performance of the 'requisitioned contracts. Petitioner was, deprived- of the profits
by .the same acts of respondent that took the other prop..

DE LAVAL CO: v. UNITED STATES.

65

Argument for the United. States.

61

arty for which allowance was made. Had there been no
intervention by'respondent, and had the purchasers'failed
,to .perfgrm, such profits would certainly have-been
recoverable in an action for such breach, i4 their qntirety,
as an element of compensation fir"petitioner's loss.
Masterton v. Mayor, 7 Hill. 61; United States,v: Behan,
110 U.'S. 338; Hinckley v. PittsburghSteel Co!, 121 U. S.
264; United States v. PurcellEnvelope Co., 249 U. S. 318.
Just'compensation is compensatory in no traer or more
exact sense than damages recoverable at law are compensatory. Monongahela Natvgation Co. v. United
States, 148 V. S, 312, 329:
Does not the value of contract rights such as these
depend upon their productiveness? And is not their
ultimate productiveness to the seller what they will ne to
'him?. And what is better evidence of that than he
profits they would have made for him?
The refusal 6T the Court of'Claims to-all6w profits is in
direct conflict with American Hawaiian S. S. Co. v. United
States, 283 Fed. 535; appeal dismissed, 263 U.. S. 727.
See also, United States v. New River Collieres Co., 262
U. S. 341, 343; Campbell v. United States, 266 U. S. 368,
371; Phelps v. United States, 274 U. S. 341;" Duckett
v. United States, 266 U. S. 149; Booth & Co. v. United
States, 61 Ct. Cls. 805.
, Whether a profitable contract, be appropriated for-'use
or confiscated for destruction; whether it be breached,
abandoned, or canceled, under the uniform course of
decision in this. Court the measure of compensation is
always the same-what it would have produced to. the

owner.
Assistant Attorney. General Rugg, with whom Messrai"
Arthur Cobb, Bradley B. Gilman and jrQi'n N, Griswol4
Weie on the brief, for the United States.
The petitioner suffered no loss because of the requisi-.
tion. By that requisition thOe Fleet Corpor ion ws sulb.

-

66

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for the United States.

284U.S.

stituted on the contracts for the original purchasers. The
petitioner no longer could look to the private contractors
for performance. Its rights were against the United
States, a party at least as responsible financially as the
original purchasers. Cancellation, not requisition, caused
the loss to the petitioner for which it is entitled to just
compensation. Brooks-Scanlon Corp. v. United States;
265 U. S. 106; Omnia Commercial Co. v. United States,
261 U. S. 502.
In Aonongahela Navigation Co. v. United States, 148
U. S. 312; Duckett & Co. v. United States, 266 U. S. 149;
and InternationalPaper Co. v. United States, 282 U. S.
399, the requisition of the third party's property
resulted directly in the loss of property to the plaintiff.
The requisition constituted a direct appropriation of the
whole property, including the"lesser estate of the claimant. But in the case at bar no property of the petitioner
was taken; its rights against the purchasers were frustrated, and in their place were substituted rights against.
the United States.
After the passage of the Act of June 15, 1917, private
parties were bound to know that under it the Government
could modify, suspend, or requisition any contract for
the production of war material. Under the rule of the
Russell Motor Car Co. case, this statutory provision
became a part of any subsequent contract.
As to the private contracts executed prior to June 15,
1917, the provisions of the Act of March 4, 1917, similar
in effect to those of the Act of June 15, 1917, became a
part of 'them.
See Brooks-Scanlon Corp. v. United
States, 265 U. S. 106' Grays HarborMotorship Corp. v.
UnitedStates, 45 F. (2d) 259.
In any event the petitioner is not entitled to anticipated profits as compensation for the cancellation of its
contracts, but only to the value of the contracts at the

DE LAVAL-CO. v.-UNiTED STATES.
61

Statement of 'Solicitor General.

date of the cancellation,. and this sum was allowed by the
Court of Claims. The statute, under which the duty to
pay arose, obligates the Government to make "just compensation." This technical phrase, "just compensation,"
has been interpreted to include the value. of the contracts
at the date of cancellation and to exclude anticipated
profits. The court below found as a fact that the value of
the contracts at the date of cancellation was $8,500.00.
This amount was included in the award of compensation.
Russell Motor Car Co. v. United States, 261 U. S. 514,.
523; Brooks-Scanlon Corp. v. United States, 265 U. S.
106, 123-124; Monongahek Navigatioi- Co. v. United,
States, 148 U. S. 312; Barrett Co. v. United States, 273
U. S. 227; College Poidit Boat Corp. v. United States,
267 U. S. 12.
The petitioner confuses just .compensation for the
reqiisition of property, the 'measure of damages for
breach of contract, and just compensation for the cancellation of contracts. The first includes no costs and
expenses of the former owner." Damages for breach of
contract include anticipated profits. This claim is one
for compensation for a lawful cancellation. Many of the
authorities relied on-by petitioner are breach of contract
cases. None are in conflict with. the decision below.

Attached to the brief for the United States was a statement by the 'Solicitor General:
not thought that the doctrine of Russell Motor
It is.
Car Co. v. 'United States, 261 U. S. 514, can be so far
extended as to import into the contracts of private parties
a right of cancellation to be exercised by the Government
in 'case of requisition, or that the requisition of the contracts for, public use anid the subsequent cancellation
deprive the contractor of its contractual right to recover

OCTOBER -TERM, 1931.

68

Opinion of the Court.

284U.S.

the measure of damage which would have been recoverable upon breach by the original purchaser, unless the
equivalent of such recovery be awarded as just compensation. Theseare the personal views of the Solicitor General. They do not accord-with the*considered judgment
bf the court below or with the views of counsel presented
in the foregding brief. ,The luestion, is one of general
importance which has not. been determined in any other
case and because of ,the constitutional rights involved
should be determined by -the judgm6nt of this Court.
'Mit.' JuSTICE

SUTI:ERLAND delivered the opinion-of the

Court.
Petitioner, a ihanufacturer of marine steam turbines,
prior to January 12, 1918, had entered into thifteen written contracts with vatious firms and corporations for the
manufacture of steam turbine propulsion units for ships.
In the early part of 1918, after petitioner had'comnenced
work, under the: contracts, the, United States, acting
through-the Emergency Fleet -Corporation, requisitioned
these contracts, and advised the parties that it wouldmake
just compensation for the turbine equipment which the
petitioner -was required to complete, and that the Emergendy Fleet Corporation- would assume the responsibility
of the contracts and make payment to petitioner.
The present controversy concerns three of these contracts (the other ten having been fully performed), the
first for the construction of four marine turbine sets at
the contract price of $150,000, the second for. the construction, of ten marine turbine sets at the contract price of
$735,000, and the hird for the construction of four marine
turbine Sets at the contract price of $216,000. Petitioner
continued to perform its obligations Under these contracts
as directed by the' Fleet Corporation, for about a year,
at which time, following the signing of the Armistice, it
became 'necessary in thpublic interest to suspend op-

DE LAVAL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
61

60

Opinion of the Court.

erations under the contracts, and, upon the severdi orders
of the Fleet. Cor oration, petitioner suspended operations,
stored the materials"on hand, which had been assembled
for the performance of the contracts, upitiI January 14,
1920, when, by agreement, they were r6leased from the
effect of the requisition and were taken over by petitioner
.
..
at an agreed salvage value. The Fleet Corporation awarded compensation to petitioner, but the latteg thought the award insufficient and
sought by this suit in the Court of Claims to have the
amount of just compensation 'determined. The Court
-of Claims gave jidgment in favor of petitioner for its
actual costs and expenditures over the cash payments
received, amounting to $116,231.66, 'together with $30,000
damages for extraordinary expenses resulting from the
stopping of work, and $15,000 'for expenses and rental
incident to the storing of materials during the period
after the order to stop work. From the total of these
items, certain deductions, including a payment by theFleet Corporation of ,75% of the amount which-.it: had
awarded, were made, resulting- in an award of$84,074.34,
with interest thereon from August 17, 1920' To this
award the court added $8,500, with interest from Marh
17, 1919, as the value of the three contracts at the time
of their -cancellation, and the loss sustained by the petitioner by reason thereof. 'According to the,'findings, the
petitioner, if it had -been allowed to -complete the performance of the three contracts, would have realized a
profit of over three hundred thousand dollars. But, the
coiurt below declined to include any amount. for anticipated profits. 70 Ct. Cls. 51.the sole question presented for our determination-is
whether petitioner was entitled to an all6wance of the
amount, or any part of the amount, of these anticipated
profits as a part'of the just compensation.

70

OCTOBER- TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284T.S.

In Russell Motor Car Co. v. United States, 261 U. S.
514; the contract involved had been made directly with
the government for the manufacture of certain war supplies, Following the Armistice, and while the contract
was in process of being performed, the Secretary of the
Navy directed its cancellation. Suit was brought in the
Court of Claims to recover just compensation. That
court found that if the manufacturer had been permitted
to complete the contract according, to its terms, a very
large amount would have been earned as profits, but refused to include in its award any part of these anticipated
profits. We affirmed this determination and held that
the statute, which empowered the President "(b) to
modify, suspend, cancel, or requisition any existing 6r
future contract for the building, production, or purchase
of ships or material," applied to the government's own
contracts as well as to private contracts, and that just
compensation for the cancellation of such contracts
should include ".the value of the contract at the time of
its cancellation, nof what it would have produced by way
of profits for the Car Company if it had been fully
performed."
A distinction is sought to be drawn between the Russell
Company case and the present case on-the ground that
there the contract was made directly with the government, and here they were made between private parties.
The question, therefore, is whether this circumstance alters
the rule in respect of just compensation. In determining
that question the cardinal point -to be borne in mind is
that whether the contract'requisitioned, or canceled be one
with the government or one between private individuals,
the person whose property rights are taken or destroyed is
entitled to receive just compensation, not damages as for
a breach. A'sufficient ground for the distinction lies in the
fact that in the one case the requisition or cancellation is a

DE LAVAL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
61

Opinion of the Court.

lawful act under the power of eminent domain, while in
the other the act constituting the breach is unlawful.
In the present case the government requisitioned the
purchasers' rights in tle contracts, not for the purpose of
putting ai end to the contracts, but of keeping them alive
for the benefit of the government. Its action being in pursuance of law, the government succeeded to all the rights
of the purchasers under the contracts. The effect was the
same as though the contracts had beeen assigned by the
purchasers with the consent of the manufacturer. There
resulted, by operation of law, a substitution of purchasers,
and the government became possessed of the right to enforce the contracts as though it had been an original contracting party. In effect, the old contracts became new
contracts between the government and the petitoner See
F. Haag & Bro. v. Reichert, 142 Iy. 298, 301; 134 S. W.
191. Compare Wiggins Ferry Co. v. Ohio & M. Ry. Co.,
142 U. S. 396, 408; Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co. v. Denver
& R. G. R. Co., 143 U. S.596, 608.
In this view, the government canceled its own contracts,
and it is hard to see why the Russell Company case is not
strictly applicable. Ioreover, the Act of June 15, 1917, c
29, 40 Stat. 182, authorized the President to cancel "any
existing or future contract," etc., and this language, as we
have held, appl'es whether the contract is with the government or between private parties. In either case, cancellation is an exercise of the po' er of eminent domain, and
the liability of the government is for just compensation.
There is no warrant for saying that the elements to be considered in fixing just compensation are d'fferent in respect
of the two classes of contracts. The Russell Company case
dealt with a government contract, but Brooks-Scanion.
Corp. v. United Stales, 265 U. S. 106,'involved the requisition of a private contract, and this ourt, holding that
the claimant was entitled to just compensatioft, defined
theterm as follows (p. 123):

72

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the. Court

"It

.84U.8.

is the'sum which, considering all te eircum-

stances-uncertainties of the war and the rest--probably

could have. been obtained for an assignment..of'the contr/Act and claimant's rights thereunder; that is, the sum
that would in all probability'result from fair negotiations
between an owner who is willing to sell and a purchaser
who desires to -buy."
Obviously, this does not justify the allowance of anticipated profits, although, of course, the fact that the contract, if carried, out; would be profitable is one of the circumstances which naturally would be considered by one
-seeking an assignment of the contract; and must be given
its proper weight in fixing just compensation. But. that
is very different from an allowance of anticipated profits
as in the case of a breach. Whether the contract taken or
canceled is one with the government or is a private-contract, the result of the two cases is that just compensation
means the same-" the value of the contract-at the time
of its cancellation, not what it would have produced by
way of profits . . . if- it' had been fully performed."
Russell Motor Car Co. v. United States, supra,p. 523.
The court below found, that the value of the contracts
at the time ,of their cancellation and the loss sustained
by reason thereof was $8,500, and in its judgment included
this amount as -a"' separate item. In the course of its
opinion the court said (p. 65) that the amount of this
item was to be determined " from all of the, facts and circumstances in the case which bear thereon, as shown by
the evidence, and [the coirt] has -fixed the. amount
thereof' in the findings at $8,500." The amount, it is true,
seemssmall, but the evidence is neither before us nor open
for our consideration, and there is' n'bthing in the findings
which would justify this court in saying that the court
below did not give weight io'all proper elements entering
fito the determination of the amount of just compensation, including the fact that large profits would have

DE LAVAL CO. v. UNITD' STATES.
61

73

Opinion f the Court.

resulted from the full performance of the contract. To
what extent, in the opini6n of the lower court, the realization of profits was rendered highly improbable by other
facts and circumstances does not appear and is not open
to speculation. We perceive no basis for substituting our
judgment in the matter for that of the Court below.
The fact that the contracts were made prior to the passage of the Act of June 15, 1917, does not alter the. situation. .They were entered into subject to the power of
Congress to enact legislation authorizing the government
to take them over for its benefit, or to modify, suspend
or cancel them, as required by the necessities of war, and
an implied condition to that effect must be read into the
contracts. See cases cited in Omnia Co. v. United States,
261 _U. S. 502, 511-513. Congriess, in the exercise of its
lawful powers, provided by the act for such taking over,
etc., and expressly included "existing" as well as" future" contracts. Whether the contracts here involved
were entered into before or after the passage of that hact,
therefore,-becomes immaterial. It is true that in-the Russell Company case the contract was after the statute and
it was said that the contract was entered into with the
prospect of its cancellation in view)- since the statute was
binding and must be read into the contract; but it was
not inteided thereby, in the face of the precise terms of
the statutory provision, to include within the reach of the
implication only future contracts and- exclude therefrom
existing contracts. The contract there and the contracts
here were entered into not only subject to statutes already
in force, but to those which should thereafter be passed.
Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. Mottley, 219 U. S. 407,
480. In that case this court held that the prohibition of
the Act of February 4, 1887, c. 104, ยง 2, 24 Stat. 379, as
amended, prohibiting a carrier from' chaging compensation differing from that specified in its published tariff,
meant that transportation should be paid for by all alike.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

284U.S.

and only in cash,, and that it had the effect of rendering
invalid a contract, valid when made, for the issue of free
transportation. The court said (p. 482):
The agreement between the railroad company and the
Mottleys must necessarily be regarded a having been
made subject to the possibility that, at some future time,
Congress might so exert its whole constitutional power in
regulating interstate commerce as to render that agreement unenforceable or to impair its value. That the
exercise of such power may be hampered or restricted to
any extent by contracts previously made between individuals. or corporations, is inconceivable. The framers
of the Constitution never intended any such state of
things to exist."
There is nothing in the findings or in the circumstances
to suggest that the manufacturer sustained any injury
from the requisition itself, since the government uhidertook to carry out the contracts and its credit was certainly not inferior to that of the original purchaser. The
injury resulted not from the requisition, but from the
subsequent cancellation of the contracts.
Judgment affirmed.
CHICAGO & NORTH WESTERN RAILWAY, CO. v.
BOLLE.
CERTIORARI TO THE APPELLATE COURT OF ILLINOIS, SECOD-.
DISTRICT.

- No. 60.

Argued October

28, 1931.-Decided November 23, 1931.

1. The test of whether an employee at the time of his injury was
engaged in interstate commerce, within the meaning of the Federal
Employers' Liability Act, is whet her he was engaged in interstate
transportation or in work so closely related to such transportation
a&to be practically a part of it. P. 78.
2. The plaintiff's employment, at the time of the injury, was. confined to firing a stationary engine (or, as a substitute, a locomotive,)

