U. S. v. BALTIMORE & OHIO R. CO.
190

195

Syllabus.

of the train after. the front part of it, which in this case
was the rear end of the tender, had passed hi5n; and: all
of the evidence both for plaintiff and for defendant is
consistent with this view of what happened. It is clear
that on this ground also a binding direction in favor of
the defendant'should have been given.
- The judgment is reversed and the case remanded to the
District Court for further proceedings in conformity with
this opinion.
Reutersed.
IVR. JUSTICE STONE

took no pait in the consideration -or

decision of this case.
UNITED STATES ET AL. v. BALTIMORE ^& OHIO
RAILROAD CO. ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATri,
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.

No. 33. Argued October 23, 1931.-Decided November 30, 1931.
1. An order of the Interstate Commerce Commission prescribing a
new division of joint rates can not be made retroac.'ve to the date
of filing complaint if the rates were established by agreement of
the parties and not pursuant to any finding or order of the Com,-:
mission. Interstate Commerce Act, § 15 (6); Brimstone R. Co. v.
United States, 276 U. S. 104. -P. 199.
2. Under § 15 (2) of the Act, which requires that all orders of the
Commission other than orders for the pAyment of money, "shall
take effect within such reasonable time, not less than thirty days
according as shall be prescribed in the order," an order
prescribing a division of joint rates, which was invalid because
retroactive, could not be deemed valid as an order to become operative thirty days after it was made, nor could it be made io operative, retroactively, by a subsequent order. P. 203.
43 F. (2d) 603, affirmed.

196

OCTOBER TERM, 1931
Argument for the floboken R. Co.

284U.S.

APPFAL from a decree of the district court of three
judges in a suit brought to set aside certain orders of*the
Interstate Commerce Commission.

Mr. J. Stanley Payne, with whom Solicitor General
Thacher, Assistant to the Attorney General O'Brian,-and
Mr. Daniel. W. Knowlton were on the brief, for the
United States et al., appellants.
The order of November 5, 1927, though beyond the
Commission's jurisdiction in its retroaetive part, was valid
for the future. "Louisville & N. R: Co. v; .Sloss-Sheffield
Co., 269 U. S.217, 225; Interstate Commerce Comm. v.
Diffenbaugh, 222 U. S. 42, 49.
Section 16a of the Act expressly authorizes the Commission to reverse, change, or modify an order when, after
rehearing, it appears that the order is in any respect
unwarranted.
The amendatory order of May 7, 1929, was within the
power of the Commission under § 16a.
The order of November 5, 1927, was supported by substantial evidence introduced at the first hearing, clearly
establishing tbat the Hoboken's division was unreasonably
low, and, indeed, so far below the actual costof its service
that, if prescribed, it would have been confiscatory,
That evidence developed thematters to which the Commission is required to give due consideration by '§ 15 .(6)"
of the Act.
Mr. ParkerMcCollester for the Hoboken Mfrs. .Co.,
appellant.
The in';alid portion was separable and the court therefore erred in enjoining the order in its entirety.. Inter.state Commerce Commission V'.
Diffenbaugh, 222 U. S.
42, 49; Chicago & A. R. Coa. v. Interstate Commerce
'omm., 173 ,Fed. 930, reversed on other grounds in Interstate Comindrce Comnission v. Illinois Central R. Co.,'

U. S. v. BALTIMORE &OHIO R. CO.
195

19V"

Argument for the Hoboken R. Co.

215 U. S. 452; Chicago, M. St. P. &P. *R. Co.v. United
States, 33 F. (2d) 582.
At most, since the order was valid for the future, the
invalidity of the last paragraph made it an order issued
without an effective date named therein, and it therefore
took effect on the earliest date when under the Act it
could become operative, namely,. thirty days from its
issuance. Interstate Commerce Act, § 15 (2). It was
analogous to a legislative act without an effective date,
which -takes effect upon passage or upon the earliest date.
permitted by constitutional provisions. Prentis v. Atlanti Coast Line, 211 'U. S. 210, 226; Terminal Railroad
Assn. v. United States, 266 U. S. 17, 30; Matthews v. Zane,
7 Wheat. 164, 211; State v. Milroy, 88 Ohio 301; Ross v.
New EnglandMortgage Co., 101 Ala. 362.
The Commission in making its, order of May 7, 1929,
fully complied with the requirements of § 15 (6) as tO
the matters'to be considered by it, and this order was
amply supported by substantial evidence including sufiicient evidence as to the matters referred to in said sectibn.
The order of May 7, 1929 properly amended the former
order so as to make it effective December 5, 1927, instead
of August 6, 1926. Section 16 (a)authorizes the Commission to reverse, change, or modify its original orders.
Louisille & N. R. Co. v. Sloss-Sheffield Co., 269 U. S. 217;
PennsylvaniaR. Co. v. United States, 288 Fed. 88. This
is also contemplated by § 15 (2).
Section 15 (6) does not except orders' fixing divisions
from the op'eration of the gein'ral provision's of the Act
such as §§ 15 (2) and 16 (a).
The decision in the Brimstone case with respect to the
lack of power of the Commission to make a retroactive
order relating to divisions does not apply to an order
merely correcting a. previous order, issued after full
hearing.

198

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U.S.

Even if the second order was invalid in so far as it
modified the first order, nevertheless, being supported by
ample evidence, it constituted a valid determination of
the Hoboken's division for the future.
Me. Henry S. Drinker, Jr., for appellees.
MRi.

JusTicE McRYNioLs

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The appellant Railroad Company operates a mile and
one -quarter of main line (with convenient sidings and
terminals) along the Hoboken front, New York harbor,
which connects directly with the Erie Railroad and interchanges freight with other roads through the former or by
car floats. It owns locomotives and electric trucks, but
no cars, and is primarily devoted to switching and ter-minal operations.
Prior to August 6, 1926, that Company, by agreement
among the carriers, received 5.25 cents from the through
rail rate of $9.00 per hundred pounds upon silk moving
from Pacific coast points to des.mations on its line. On
that date it asked the Interstate Commerce Commission.
'to allow a larger share. After hearing, and on November
5, 1927, the Commission found. the agreed division unfair
and made th following entry-:
"It. is ordered, That of the joint eastbound transcontinental rates on silk froin points on the Pacific coast to
destinations on the line of complainant, at Hoboken, N.:J.,
said complainant shall receive a division of 22 cents per
100 pounds, which division shall be apportioned~among
all defendants which participate in the revenues derived
from this traffic.
"It is further -ordered,That.this order take effect as of
August 6, 1926, and shall continue in force until the
further order of the commission."

U. S. v. BALTIMORE & OHIO R. CO.'
195

199

Opinion of the Court.'

February 20, 1928, Brimstone Railroad Co. v. United
States, 276 U. S. 104, was decided. We there held that
before the Conmission could prescribe a new division of
joint rates among carriers it must carefully observe the
sundry requirements set-out in § 15 (6), Transportation
Act 1920. Also that where jbint rates had been agreed on
by the parties and were not "established pursuant- to any
finding or order," the statute confers no power to require
adjustment for any period prior to finaf order. 1
1, Sec. 15, par. (6). Commission-to establish just divisions of joint
rates, fares, or charges; qdjustments. Whenever, after full hearing
upon complaint or upon its own initiative, the commission is of opinion that the divisions of joint rates, fares, or charges, applicable to the
transportation of passengers or property, are or will be unjust, unreasonable, inequitable, or unduly preferential or prejudicial as between the carriers parties thereto (whether agreed upon by such carriers, or any of them or otherwise established), the comnlission shall
by order prescribe the just, reasonable, and equitable divisions thereof
to be received'by the several carriers, and in cases where the joint
rate, fare, or charge was established pursuant to a finding or order of
thQ Commission and the divisions thereof are found by it to have been
unjust, unreasonable, or inequitable, or unduly preferential or prejudicial, the commission may also by order determine whai (for the
period subsequent to the filing of the- complaint or petition or the
making of the order of investigation) would have been the just, reasonable, and equitable divisions thereof to be received by the several
carriers, and requiie adjustment to be made in accordance therewith.
In so prescribing and determining the divisions of joint rates, fares
and charges, the commission shall give due consideration, among other
things, to the efficiency with which the carriers concerned are operated, the amount of revenue required to pay their respective operating expenses, taxes, and a fair return on their railway property held
for and used in the service of transportation, and the importance to
.the public of the transportation services of such carriers; and also
whether any particular participating carrier is.an originating, intermediate, or delivering line, and any other fact or circumstanie which
would ordinarily, without regard to the mileage haul, entitle one carrier to a greater or less proportion than another carrier of the joint
rate, fare or charge."

200

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U.S.

May 14, 1928, upon its own motion the Commission
re-opened for further hearing the proceeding instituted by
appellant. Much.additional evidence was presented. A
second report and order, entered-May 7, 1929, again held
and directed that it should receive 22 cents for each hundred pounds of silk delivered to points on its line. The
following is from the report,It will be noted that the order [Nov. 5, 1927] prescribes a division from the date,of the filing of the complaint, and for the future. The -rate-of which the division
is here in issue was'not ' established pursuant to a"finding or order of the commission,' and under the holding
in the Brimstone case, supra, the basis for ,retroactive
application of the division is lacking. The order was,
therefore, beyond our jurisdiction in so far as it attempted
to prescribe a retroactive adjustment, but it was and is.
valid as to the future. ' Its effective date under the circumstances here present niust be found to be the date
upon which said order could have become effective under.
the act. By paragraph 2 of sectioin 15 of the act 'all
orders of the commission, other than orders for the payment. of money, shall take effect within such reasonable
time, not less than hirty dars, and shall continue in force
until its further order.' An order prescribing a division.
for the future is not an order for the payment of money.
Accordingly, the- original order prescribing the division
for the future should have become effective on December
5, .1927."Defendants take the position that the facts to which
we are required to give consideration under section 15 (6)
.of the act were not present in the original record; that,
therefore, the original order herein was null and void;
and that any order herein must speak from the date of 'a
final*decision upon the entire record. We do not agree
with this contention. The former finding as to the future

U. S. v. BALTIMORE & OHIO R. CO.
195

Opinion of the Court.

division is amply supported by the evidence upon the,
original record.
"We find that on and since December 5, 1927, the
division received by complainant, out of joint rates on
silk from points on the Pacific coast to-Hoboken, N. J.,
on its line has been, is, and for the future will be unjust, unreasonable, and inequitable to the extent that
it has been, is, or may be less than 22 cents per 100 pounds.
"An appropriate order will be entered modifying 'the
order herein of November 5, 1927, -to the extent indicated."
The second order follows-,
" It appeariig, That on November 5, 1927, division' 1
entered its report and order in the above-entitled proceeding, and that on May 14, 1928,-this case was.reopened for
iehearing;.
"It further appearing, That such rehearing has been
.had and that the commission on the date hereof ^has"
made and filed a report on rehearing containing its findings of fact and conclusions thereon, which said report
and the report and order of November 5, 1927, are hereby
referred to and made a part hereof:
"It is ordered, That the said order' of November 5, 1927,
be and it is hereby modified to read as follows:
g It is ordered, That on and after December 5, 1927,
said c6mplainant shall receive a division of 22 cents per
100 pounds out of the joint eastbound transcontinental
rates on silk from points on the Pacific Coast to destinations on the line of complainant at Hoboken, N. J., which
division shall be apportioned among all defendants which
participate in the revenues derived from this traffic east
of Chicago and -Peoria, Ill., St. Louis, Mlo., 'and related
gateways.
"And it is further ordered, That this order shall continue in -force until the further order of the commission."

202

OCTOBPR TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U.S.

The appelee s.. fused to obey, the May, 7th order, and,
upon motion, February 4, 1930, the ICommissi.onentered
a: third directing an allowance of not less than 22 cents
per hundred p0.unds on. 'shipments on and after- March
10th. Also thai ".this order shall not' be' onsirued as
modif ying, amending or rescinding said orders of lXovember 5, 1927, and May 7, 1929, in so ar as. they relate to
this proersy- icontr
and -determine the matters in
ceding orthe'rights of the parties hereto prior to March
1O, 1980,"or with respect to thei dvision of rates on any
shipment delivered to' or transported by complainant
prior to said date."
March 11, 1930, by. petition in the. United States Distri ct Court for New Jersey appe1l6es'challenged the three

orders above mentioned, and asked that -each- be' declared
ineffective. ' The cause Was duly 'heard and determined,
three judges sitting.
Of 'the G6mmissioni"s final action' the court said-" This
[third]"orderi. _we inderstand,-is- aceept6d by' the 'plain-tiffs because of 'the fact' that it' becomes: effective' not' less.
than'thirty days'after its entry."; Relief in respect of it
was accordingly denied. As., this part of" the decree is
not -now challenged, we need "not -further -'consider -the
effect of that order..
Relying. upon Brimstone Railr6ad COi v. Unite'States,
supra, the court held that the- evidence' presented to the
Commission prior to -November 5, 1927,. did not meet
'the statutory, -requirements. Andcupon that ground, as
-wellas because of itsiretroactive., feature, the first order
,was declared ineffective, .The,court further declared that
in -;view, pf ,Ohe, additiona. testimony- introduced, subsequent-. to, the. re-opening, on May 5, 1928, the second
:order might have been lawful but for the retroactive
provision; this rendered the whole invalid.
As,-the cause will be decided upon another point, we
need not inquire whether there was proPer consideration

I1. S. v. BALTIMORE & HIO
195-

CO.

208

Opinion of the Court.'

of the sundry elements enumerated in § 15 (6), Traispor-

tation Act 1920, prior to-the first order. The applicble
rule was definitely pointed out 'by 'Brin stone Rairoad
Co. v.;United States, supra.1The court bel6w :was of
opinion that the siatutory requirements Were not met;

and the Commission's owi action m re-opening the proceedings indicates rather plainly that it thei accepted the
same view.

Section 15, 'par. (2), Transportation Ac provides that
"all orders of the com'nission other than 'orders.for the
payment of money, shall take effect within sucl reasonable time, not less-than thirty da;ys, and shall continue in
force until its further order, or for aspecifiec period of
time, according as shall be presribed in the order, unless
the same shall be suspended or modlfied or set aside.by
the commission, or be susp'iided or set'aside by a court
of competent jurisdiction."
The only provision in the first'order' ine'spect of -the
effective date is this-L"'It' is further. odered, That this
order take effect as of -ugust 6, 1926, ,ikd'shall continue
in force until the' further order of the commission." The
Commission had no power to put this order iit'o effect'as
of a prior'day; no future day was prescribed' the designated date was not a lawful one'. - ' Accordingly, the order
did not' become operative and was whbll * iieffective.
"Orders. .. shal' take effect .
a ording as §hail
be prescribed in the order." The courts may not'usurp
the function of the Commission' s, 'd say one of its oiders
.

shall-become effective thirty days, a hundred days, -or a
any qther time after entry. Anorder must take effect as
prescribed.; its effective date, if. any, is the one actually
appointed, not, One which might have been. Unless and
until the Commission duly designates a liwful date no
carrier can know what is required and the courts can not
command obedience. It follows that, notwithstanding

204

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
STONE,

J., dissenting.

284 U. S.

the first order, the agreed division of the through rate
continuedto be the lawful one. •
jnder the guise oi putting a'former-one into effect, the
second order likewiseundertook retrospectively to change
an existing agreed rate. This-was beyond the power conferred. The order Was not divisible; it specified no lawful date upon which it should become effective a d was
invalid. The division as originally agreed by the carriers
remained the lawful one.
The third order appointed a-definite time, as the statute requires not less than thirty days after entry, upon
which it should go into effect; it also definitely stated
that nothing therein should be construed as modifying,
amending, or rescinding the previous ones. Appellees do
not question its validity.
The decree "ofthe court below is

A4ffirmed,.
MR.

JUSTICE

STON.,

dissenting.

The first order of the Commission, without regard to its
later ones, should, I think, be held Valid and operative
thirty days from its date. Dated November 5, 1927, it
directed that the" complainant shall receive a division of
220 per hundred .pounds" of the joint rate on-silk from
Pacific coast points to destinations on its line. It specified
that it .should take effect as of an earlier date, August 6,
1926, "and shall contintie in force until the further order
of the. commission." For present purposes, we must
assume that it was supported by evidence: and .was intended to remove a division of the joint rate, which was
grossly unfair to appellant.
The Commission, as this Court later decided in Brimstone Railroad& Canial Co. v. UnitedStates, 276 U. S. 104,
was without authority to order a divisionof rates as to the
past; but it did possess thepower to order a division for
the future, and sought, by an unambiguous use of words,.

U. S. v. BALTIMORE & )HIO R. CO.
195

205 '

SoNE, J., dissenting.

to exercise it. Yet, it is held by the Court that the order
is invalid in its entirety and, in consequence, the appellants lose the benefit of it,. not only for the designated ,
period ante.ating the Commission's action, but for the
four years which have since elapsed, because the order did
*not, as required by § 15 (2) of the Transpbrtation Act of
1920, prescribe a time at least thirty days 'from its date
when it was to take effect, The section provides that
orders of the Commission "shall take effect within such
reasonable time, not less than thirty days, and shall con"tinue in force until its further order or for a specified
period of time, according as shall be prescribed by the
order." On its face the. statute .would seem merely to
curtail the power of the Commission to make its order
effective within thirty days, rather than to require -the
drder to specify some particular date beyond the thirty
day period when it should be effectivie.
But granting that the latter is the requirement of the
statute, I fail to perceive in the preent order any such
failure to specify the time of its operation as would
render it invalid as to the divisions which the Commission
had power to make. It would not, .Ithink, occur to anv,one unfamiliar with legal niceties that the order failed
to prescribe a time for its operation with respect to the
*future. It bore a date and in terms said that the division
ordered should take effect as of an earlier named date and
should continue in force until further order of the Commission: Thus the order prescribed that it should operate in the future as well as in the past, on the 31st and
future days as well as on the 30th and each earlier day
after its date. In view of thp nature of the subject matter, the removal of an unjust apportionment of a through
rate, it cannot be said that the Commission did not intend it to operate on the 31st and later days, even though
it should turn out that there was a lack of power to

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.

206

Syllabus.

284 U.S.

order the division as to earlier dates. See United States
v. Chicago, M.,St. P. & P. R. Co., 282 U. S. 311.
But it is said, in effect, that since the ,order is void so
far as it applied to a past period, identified by named
dates, that part of it -is as though it had never been
written and, hence, the order when applied to the future
must be read as though it specified no time for its operation. But the mere fact that the Commission commanded, in a single writing, some things which were beyond its power, together with others that were riot, could
not erase from the document either the dates or the words.
or change their meaning or preclude our looking at them,
to see in what manner and to what extent the Commission exercised the power it, did possess. Looking at -the
words I cannot say that the order, so far as it directed
the division after thirty days from its date, did not comply with § 15 (2), or that it can rightly be set at naught
regardless of the nature and amount of the evidence supporting it.
MR. JSTIcbE HOLMES

and MR.JusTIcE BRANDEIS con-

cur in this opinion.

HOEPER v. TAX COMMISSION OF WISCONSIN.
ET AL.
-APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF WISCiNSIN.
No. 17.
1.

Submitted October 15, 1931.-Decided November 30, 1931.

Wisconsin income tax statute which authorizes an assessment
against a husband of a tax computed on the combined total of his
and his wife's incomes and augmented by surtaxes resulting from
the combination, although under the laws of the State the husband
has no interest in, or control over the property or income of his
wife, held violative of the due process and equal protection clauses'
of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 215.

