OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
" Syllabus.,

284U.S.

affirmed the judgment, but. subsequently rescinded the
order of affirmance And, dismissed :he appeal. This action was final, ended the case in that court, and deprived
it of all power to add to or alter the record as certified.
Since there was no case pending, power, was wanting to
make any order granting leave to the court below for any
ptrpose. The attempt by remanding the record, with
leave to the court below to take action which would
otherwise .h4ve been beyond its powers, left the matter
'precisely as if no such order had been made.
It follows that the Circuit Court correctly held that
what was done subsequently to the affirmance of the
judgment in the first appeal was improvident and'unauthorized and should be rescinded, and the order which
accomplished this end and reinstated the original judgment is
Affirmed.
:MR. JUSTICE, SToE took no part in the consideration
or decision of this: case.

OLD COLONY RAILROAD CO. v. COMMISSIONER
OF INTERNAL' REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO .THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPPALS FOR TH.
FIRST CIRCUIT.
No. 34.

Argued January 18, 1932.-Decided February 15, 1932,

1. Under Treasury Regulations promulgated by authority of the Revenue Act of 1921, the net amount of premium"received by a corpo-ration from subscribers to iAs bonds is income.' P. 557.
2. The repeated reenactmbnt of a statute without substantial change
is evidence of an'implied legislative approval of a!construction
placed upon it by executive officers. Id.
3. Where a corporation issued its bonds at a premium, which was
received prior to the adoption of the Sixteenth Amendment, the

*

552

OLD COLONY R. CO. v. COMMISSIONER.

55-

Argument for Respondent.

amount of the premium is income for the year 'in which it was received, and no part thereof may be taxed by a subsequent income
tax act. P. 557.
4. This conclusion is not affected by the provision of a Treasury
Regulation which directs that the amount of. bond premiums received by a corporation be prorated or amortized over the life of
the bonds. Id.
5. The words of a statute are to be interpreted -in their usual, ordinary and everyday meaning; and this rule applies to taxing a~ts.
P. 560.
6. Under § 234 of the Revenue Act of 1921,. which allows as a deduction from the gross income of a corporation "all interest . .. on
its indebfedness," the word ' interest" in the quoted phrase means
the amount agreed to'be paid, which the contract denominates
"interest," and does not mean the'so-called "effective rate' of
interest. Pp. 559-561.
7. The fact that bonds of a corporation were issued at a premium
does not operate to reduce the amount deductible as interest on
indebtedness under the revenue acts. Pp. 559, 563.
8. Where the language of a tax statute is ambiguous, the Court adopts
that construction which is most favorable to the taxpayer. P. 561.
9. The rules of accounting enforced upon a carrier by the Interstate
Commerce Commission are not binding upon the Commis-ioner of
Internal Revenue, nor may he resort .to the rules of that body5,
made for other purposes, for the determination of tax liability under
the revenue acts. P. 562.
50 F. (2d) 896, reversed.

CERTIORARI * to review a judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals reversing a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals. The Board held erroneous the Commissioner's
finding of 'a deficiency in petitioner's return. for 1921..
18 B. T. A. 267.
Mr. James S. Y. Ivins, with whom M-" Kingnan Brewster was on the brief, for petitioner.
Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, with whom
Solicitor General Thacher, and Messrs. Sewall Key, J.
* See table of cases reported in this volume.

554

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U. S.

Louis Monarch, and Paul D. Miller were on the.-brief,
for respondent.
The method adopted by the Commissioner in computing the petitioner's 1921 net income was in accordance
with principles of accounting recognized as sound by leading authorities and by the Interstate Commerce Commission. It reflected accurately the petitioner's financial condition and net income, and was the method actually used
by the petitioner in keeping its books and making its repdrts to the Commission. It was, in essence, in accordance with the Treasury Regulations uniformly followed
since the enactment of the Revenue Act of 1918, and applied to the billions of dollars of outstanding indebtedness
of American railroads upon long-term, obligations. See
Thirty-First Annual Report of Interstate Commerce Commission on the Statistics of Railways in the United States
for the-year ending December 31, 1917, pp. 34-36, 54-56.
Under such circumstances the determination of the Commissioner should not be disturbed.
Moreover, unless the Commissioner's theory as to the
treatment of bond premiums is adopted, it would seem
that a-corporatioh, by selling its bonds at a high nominal
ifiterest rate so as to produce a premium, could reduce its
taxable niet income by the amount of the premium and to
that extent escape taxation.
Mr.- JUStiCE ROBERjTS delivered' the. opinion of the

Court.
The Revenue Act of 1-921 defines gIoss income as- including gains, profits and income derived by the taxpaydr
from any sour.e whatever, and provides ihat in comput-,
ing net income of a corporation "all interest paid or
accrued within the taxable year on its indebtedness " is
deductible from such gross income. Treasury regulations
promulgated under authority of the statute state that if

OLD COLONY R. CO. v. COMMISSIONER.
552

555

Opinion of the Court.

bonds are issued by a corporation at a premium the net
amount of such premium is gain or income which should
be amortized over the life of the bonds.'
In making return for 1921 the Old Colony Railroad
Company deducted from gross. income the full amount
paid during the year as interest to holders-of its bonds.
These had been issued at various dates between 1895 and
1904 and the subscribers had taken them at prices in
excess of par. The total of the premiums thus paid the
company was $199,528.08. At the..dates of issuance'-of
the bands, and until 1914, the company kept-its accounts
on a cash basis and credited the sums so received in an
account designated "Premiim on Bonds." In the last
named year the Interstate Commerce Commission ordered
that they should be amortized over the periods of the
respective lives of the bonds. The company complied
under protest, extinguished by appropriate entries the
ratable proportion of the premiums for the years prior to
1914, and thereafter reported .to the Commission as income a yearly ratable proportion of the'remainder of the
premiums, but entered the same on its books in the profit
and loss account (a surplus account) and not as income.
The proportion of the premiums attributable to 1921 and
reported to the Commission as income for that year was
$6,960.64, but the company did not in its tax return include this figure in gross income or deduct it from the
amount of interest paid on its bonds.2 The Commnis'Act of November 3, 1921, c. 136, §§ 218, 234; 42 Stat. 227, 237,'
254. Treasury Regulations 62, -Art. 545.
'By lease dated February 15, 1893, still in force, petitioner leased
all its property to The New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad
Company, the lessee agreeing to operate .and maintain petitioner's
railroad, to assume the payment of the principal of and interest upon
its bonded indebtedness and other obligations, and to pay a certain
additional sum as rental. Although the bonds in question were issued

556

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U. S.

sioner, in his audit of the return, made no adjustment
in the item of interest paid, but added the sum of $6,960.64
to the company's gross income for 1921 and found a resulting deficiency in the amount of tax. Upon a petition
for redeternmination the Board of Tax Appeals held that
the Commissioner ered in treating this amount as taxable income of the year in question2
The Conmissioner asked reconsideration, asserting that
the mere form of the calculation by which he arrived at
a redetermination of the tax was immaterial and that the
result was correct since the year's proportion of amortization of bond premiums was in reality a deduction from
the stipulated interest paid the bondholders. The Board
adhered to its ruling.' The Circuit Court of Appeals
adopted the Commissioner's view and reversed the
Board. The court distinguished its earlier decision in
after the effective date of the lease they were the direct obligation of
petitioner and it remained liable for the payment of interest. Petitioner bases certain arguments upon the fact that. in the tax year
under review it charged itself with bond interest received from the
lessee and took credit for the same amount as interest paid to bondholders. These facis are unimportant m the view we take of the
case. We ~all treat it as if the lease were nonexistent and the bonds
had been issued by a company operating its own property.
'18 B. T. A. 267. In reaching this conclusion the Board: followed
its earlier decision in Old Colony Railroad Co. v. 'Commissioner, 6
B. T. A. 1025, wherein it had held that under simila.r provisions of
the Revenue Act of 1918 and a~like treasury regalaiion the premiums
were income in the year in which they were received, thus becoming a
part of-the company's capital prior to the adoption of the, Sixteenth
Amendment and not taxable. See Doyle v. Mitchell Bros. Co., 247
U. S. 179; Lynch v. Turrish 247 U. S. 221; Southern Pacific Co. v.
Lowe, 247 U. S. 330; Goodrich v. Edwards, 255 U. S. 527. -The
Board's holding was affirmed in Comtmissioner v. Old Colony R. Co.,
26 F. (2d) 408. See also Chicago, R. I. & P. R. Co. v. Commsionr,
47 F. (2d) 990.
418 B. T. A. 267.
'50 F. (2d) 896.

OLD COLONY R. CO. v. COMMISSIONER.
552

557

Opinion of the Court.

Commissioner v. Old Colony 1,. Co., supra, note 3, statinj that its- attention had not been called to thefct
that the profit made in the years"prior to 1913 was not
being taxed, but was used oily to determine the. expense
of the payment of interest on the-bonds.for the year 1921.
We granted certiorari.The regdlations state that the net amount of premium
is gain ormom6.I Necessarily, ihen, the premium isgain
or income of the year in which it is received. The pro-,
visions of the Re-iedqe Acts of- 191.8, 1921, 1924 and 1926.
are the saimie as respect grs income of corporations and
deductions therefrom... Thb regulations. under the relevant -sections of the acts of 1918, 1924 and "1926 employ
substantially the same phraseology as tt~it found in those
issued under the 1921 Act.' The repeated reenactment
of a statute without substantial change may amount. to
an implied legislative approval of a- construction placed
upon it by executive officers. NationalLead Co. v. United
States, 25 U. S. 140; United States v. Farrar,281 U. S.
624; Poe'v. Seaborn, 282 U.. S.101, 116.
There is no ambiguity in-the language of the reg lation;
wh'ch defines a bond premium as income. As a corollary
from this definition it follows that-the petitioner received
the income represented by the premiums here involved
prior to the adoption of the Sixteenth Amendment, for
these premiums could not be income for any other year
than that in which they were received. That income had
become capital prior to the adoption of the Amendment
and could not be reached by a subsequent income tax act.
This conclusion is not affected by the provision of the
regulation which allows the proration or amortization of
this item over the life of the bonds, and extends to the
taxpayer the privilege of treating the premium as income
'Regulaiions 45, Art. 544; Regulations 62, Art. 545; Reglations .69,
Art. 545; Regulationg 74, Art. 68.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U. S.

received in instalments instead of in a lump sum in the
year of its receipt.
Nor does the fact that the regulation thus ameliorates
the burden of the taxpayer authorize the use of the grant
,to -convert income of years prior to the effective date of
the Sixteenth Amendment into income assumed to have
been received thereafter. The amortization requirement
may properly be applied to premiums paid subsequent to
March 1, 1913, but cannot operate to contradict the-definition of a premium as gain or income.
The Government, however, insists that nothwithstanding the regulation's designation of a premium paid by the
subscriber to corporate bonds as income it is not such to
the corporation, but is in the nature of capital loaned
which must be returned to the lender during the life of
the bonds. Reference is made to the practice of bond
buyers in determining the amount they will bid. It is
said that a purchaser, ii arriving at the price he is willing
to pay for a bond, has regard to the current rate of interest
for money, and if the bond bears a stipulated rate in excess of the ruling rate he will pay a premium. He does
this although he knows that at maturity he can only receive the par of the bond, but considers that he will be
repaid the -premium by the excess of the agreed rate of
interest over the rate he is content to receive. On the
other hand, where the stipulated interest is less than the
going rate 'bond buyers will bid less than the par of
the bond by such amount as is necessary to redress the
differelice between the agreed rate of interest and the going
rate which the subscriber demands. The conclusion is
that the actual return to one who pays a premium is less
than the nominal interest carried by the bond, and to. one
who buys at a discount is greater than such nominal rate.
The argument is that although the regulations are inaptly
phrased'and are susceptible of the construction petitioner
places upon them their real intent was to adjust the nomi-

OLD COLONY R. CO. v. COMMISSIONER.
552

559

Opinion of the Court.

nal interest paid on a corporation's indebtedness to the
actual amount it is paying for the use-of the money represented by the par of the bond,-that is, to what accountants have called the "effective rate" of interest. In this
view the Government says that each time the debtor pays
an instalment of stipulated interest what it in fact does is
to pay interest at a lesser rate on the par of the bond and
return a ratable proportion of the premium, which really
constitutes a loan by the investor to the debtor. Thus
that portion of the instalment paid at each interest date
which is a return of the loaned capital represented by the'
premium must be deducted from the nominal interest in
order to arrive at the "effective rate" of interest the
debtor is really paying. It is said the regulation is intended to afford a method of adjusting the taxpayer's
income in the light of these facts, and that it is immaterial
whether, as provided, the pro rata yearly return of capital
loaned in excess of the face of the bond is added to gross
income or deducted from interest paid, for in- either case
the result in dollars will be exactly the same.
Doubtless the premium received by the corporation is
acquired capital rather than income. But if this be. admitted. the concession does not answer the question
whether a premium paid prior to 1913 is taxable. Obviously, therefore, it is not enough for the Goveinment's
purpose to disregard the regulation which designates this
item as income or gain. The Commissioner must and
does go farther-and contend that the receipt of such a
premium reduces the item of interest paid and renders
.the sum .nominated as such in the bond something different from the "interest . . . on its indebtedness" men-

tioned in § 234 of the Revenue Act of 1921 as a permissible deduction from gross income.
In other words the contention is that by the use of the
quoted-phrase the statute did not intend to allow the deduction of the amount agreed to be paid, which the con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U. S.

tract denominates "interest," -but of a different sumi to
be ascertained by a calculation which will allocate the
payment between a partial and ratable return of the *premium and "effective" interest on the par of the security.
Is this the reasoniable, construction of the language of
the act,-" all interest . . . on its indebtedness "?

The

rule which should be applied-is established by many decisions. "The legislature must be presumed to use words
in their known and ordinary signification." Levy's Lessee
v. McCartee, 6 Pet. 102, 110. "The popular or received
import of words furnishes the general rule'for the-interpretation of public laws." Maillardv. Lawrence, 16 How.
251, 261. And see United States v. Buffalo Gas Co., 172
U. S. 339, 341; United States v. First Nat- Bank, 234
U. S. 245, 258; Caminettiv. United States, 242 U. S. 470,
485. As was said in Lynch v. Alworth-Stephens Co., 267
U. S. 364, 370, " the plain, obvious and rational meaning
of a statute is always to be preferred to any curious, narrow, hidden sense that nothing but the exigency of a hard
case and the ingenuity and study of an acute and powerful intellect would discover." This rule is applied to taxing acts: DeGanayv. Lederer, 250 U. S. 376, 381.
Applying the accepted tests to the language of the
statute, we are of opinion that the construction contended
for by the Commissioner is inadmissible. In common
parlance the bonded indebtedness of a corporation imports the total face of its outstanding bonds,-the amount
which must be paid at their maturity., The' phrase is
not generally used to connote par plus an unreturned
proportion of premium.
And as respects "interest," the usual import of the
term is the amount which one has contracted to pay for
the use of borrowed money. He who pays and he who
receives payment of the stipulated amount conceives that
the whole is interest. In the ordinary affairs of life no
one stops for refined analysis of the nature cf a premium,

OLD COLONY R. CO. v. COMMISSIONER.
552

561

Opinion of the Court.

or considers that the periodic payment universally called
"interest" is in part something wholly distinct-that
is, a return of borrowed capital. It has remained for the
theory of accounting to point out this refinement. We
cannot believe that Congress used the word having in
mind any concept other than the usual, ordinary and
everyday meaning of the term, or that it was acquainted
with the accountants' phrase "effective rate" of interest
and intended'that as the measure of the permitted deduction.
In the present case, as with corporate obligations generally, the bond has a par value and each coupon stipulates
that on a date therein mentioned the company will pay
a named sum as interest on the bond. Until the present
contention was put forward no one supposed that the
taxpayer was -not entitled to deduct the entire amount
specified in the coupon and actually paid- during the taxable year as interest. The person who receives this sum
certainly considers it interest and so, apparently, does the
Government, which requires him to return it all as such
and does not permit him, if he or his predecessor holder
paid more than par for the bond, to treat part of the sum
received as a return of capital loaned and the remainder
as interest received.
In short, we think.that in the common understanding
"interest" means what is usually called interest by those
who pay and those who receive the amount so denominated in bond and coupon, and that the words of the
statute permit the deduction of that sum, and do not refer
to some esoteric concept derived from subtle and theoretic
analysis.
If there were doubt as to the connotation of the term,
and another meaning might be adopted, the fact of its
use in a tax statute would incline the scale to the construction most favorable to -the taxpayer. Gould v.
Gould, 245 U. S. 151; United States v. Merriam, 263 U. S.
85912*-:-32----30

562

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Coirt.

284 U. S.

179; Bowers v. Lighterage Co., 273 U. S. '346; United
States'v. Updike, 281 U. S. 489; Burnet v. NiagaraFall&
Brewing Co., 282 U. S. 648.
A further contention is advanced that inasmuch as by
the ruling of the Interstate Commece Commission the
company was compelled to designate the annual amount
of premium amortization as income, and under protest
did so treat it in reporting to the Commission, the ruling of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue is in confortuity with the method of bookkeeping adopted by the
petitioner and hence is justified by § 212 (b) of the Revenue Act of 1921,' which provides that the net income
of a corporation shall be computed in accordance with
the method of accounting regularly employed in keeping
the books of the taxpayer, and by § 213 (a) of the same
act, which authorizes the accrual method of reporting
income. This position is inconsistent with the other arguments advanced. If the amortized premium is to be deducted from interest paid by the taxpayer it is not income. If it is income, then by hypothesis it is income
received prior to' the date of the' Sixteenth Amendment
and not income which accrues to the taxpayer from year
to year. Moreover, the rules of accounting enforced
upon a carrier by the Interstate Commerce Commission
are not binding upon the Commissioner, nor may he resort to the *rules of that body, made for other purposes,
for the determination of tax liability under the revenue
acts. Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v. Commissioner,
52 F. (2d) 372; certiorari denied, post, p. 676. Compare
Chicago, R. I. & P; Ry. Co. v. Commissioner, 13 B. T. A.
988, 1027; Fall River Electric Light Co. v. Commissioner,
23 B. T. A. 168.
We conclude -that the yearly pro rata amortization .of
bond premiums is not income received in the year to which
'Note 1, supra.

AM. SURETY CO. v. GREEK UNION.
552

563

Syllabus.

it is applicable; and that so far as the deduction of interest on indebtedness is concerned the fact that a premium was paid does not operate to reduce interest paid
on bonded indebtedness within the meaning of the revenue acts.
The judgment is
:

Reversed.

AMERICAN SURETY CO. v. GREEK CATHOLIC
UNION.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT 6F APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 401.

Argued January 22, 1932.-Decided February 15, 1932.

A surety company executed in favor of a benefit society a fidelity
bond conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of its
-treasurer. - He subsequently violated his duty by depositing with a
bank a sum greatly in excess of that permitted by the by-laws of
his organization. The bank came into financial difficulty, and its
assets .were taken over and its liabilities assumed by a trust company. To assure the transfer, and in an attempt to minimize the
loss, but without the consent of the surety company, the society
entered into an agreement with the trust company to leave on deposit with it a sum of money, for a stated period, without interest.At the expiration of this'period the money was paid back in full.
The society sued the surety company to recover a sum representing
the amount of interest lost on the money as a result of these arrangements. It was admitted that the course pursued by the
society had deprived the surety company of its right of subrogation
agaipst the bank. Held:
1. The agreement made between the society and the trust company so varied the risk as to release the surety company from
liability under its bond. P. 567.
2. The surety company did- not have the burden of proving
affirmatively that its risk was increased. Pp. 568-569.
3. The cause of the loss sued for was the voluntary action of the
society in making an entirely new agreement with the trust .company, and this was not one of the events specified in the bond on
which payment was conditioned. P. 569.
51 F. (2d) 1050, reversed.

