OCTOBER TERM, 1931.

288

Syllabus.

284 U.S.

or refuse jurisdiction according to the relative .inconvenience.of the parties.
The judgment of the Supreme Court must be reversed.
The cause will be remanded there for further proceedings'

not.inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR, JUSTICE STONE

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
ATLANTIC COAST LINE RAILROAD CO. ET. AL.- V.
UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROMV

THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.,

No. 88.. Argued December 7, 193L.-Decided January 4, 1932.
1. Acting under § 5 (2) of the Interstate Commerce Act, the Comfimission granted'to petitioner carriers -permission to lease a line
connecting with.their system,,but in order to preserve existing and
possible through routes via the leased line on other railroads, it
granted the "permission upon the conditions: that the lessor be.
"maintained as a separate organization 'and its line constitute a
separate operating unit; that existing routes.6f traffic, gateways of
interchange, and neutrality in handling traffic be continued, so as to
preserve- equal servicerouting and movement of competitive traffic to and from all connecting lines reached by the leased line; that
the lessees permit carriers then connecting with the leased line, or
which might thereafter connect with it, to participate, without discrinination, in thiough routes and joint rates on traffic moving
over it as an intermediate road between regions designated in .the
order, and that, to this end, the'leased line should be maintained
as an open route equally available to all carriers connecting with
it. Held:
(1) That the conditions applied in favor of a railroad whose line
wa extended, several years after the order was made, t%the line
of another carrier by which it was linked to the leased line.. P. 293.
(2) That tariff provisions by which the lessee companies established exclusive through routes over the leased line violated the

ATLANTIC.COAST LINE R. CO. v. U. S.

289

Opinion of the Court.

288

conditions, and that an order for their cancellition made by the
.Commission under § 15 (7) was valid. P.293 et seq.
2. The term "connecting lines" is not limited in menning to rail-

roads having direct connection, but is commonly used as referring
to all of th61in&s making up a through route. P. 293.
3. The limitation imposed-by § 15 (4) of the Interstate Commerce

Act, prohibiting the Commission from requiring a carrier to establish, "without its consent," any through route which does not embrace sibstantially the entire length of its linre between the termini
of the route proposed, is designed to protect the existing long-haul
routes of carriers, and applies only when the Commission is exerc1ing the power conferred by paragraph 15 (3). It ig not a limitation ujon the power of the Commission to affix conditions when
approving new combinations of carriers under § 5 (2). tP. 294.
48F. "(2d) 29, affirmed.

APPEALI from a decree of the District Court of three
judges dismissing a bill to set aside an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Messrs. F. B. Grier and Carl H. Davis, with whom Mr.
M. Q. McDonald was on the brief, for appellants.,
Assistant to the Attorney General O'BrT7n, with whoin
Solicitor General Thache and Messrs. Chares'H. Weston;
Daniel W. Knawlton, and H. L. Underwoodwere on the
brief, for the United States and Interstate"'C.6mmerce
Commission, appellees.
Mr. W. S. O'B. Robinson, Jr., with whom Messrs. James
M. Hull, Jr., George B. Barrett, and George B. Robinson,
Jr., were on the brief, for the Piedmont & Northern Ry.
Co. et al.; appellees.
Ain. JUsTIcE B A-DFIs delivered the opinibn of the
Court.
This suit; under the Act of October 22, 1913,. c. 32, 38
Stat. 208, 220, was brought in the federal court for western
South Carolina, to set aside an order bf the Interstate
Commerc Commission dated-June 9, 1930. Restriction
85912°-32-

19

.290

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.:Opinion of the Court.

284 U.S.

in-Routing in-Connection with the Georgia & Florida Railroad, 165 I. C. C. 3. The plaintiffs are the Atlantic. Coast
Line Railroad, the Louisville & Nashville Railroad and the
Charleston & Western Railroad. The defendants are the
United States and, by intervention, the Commission, the
Piedmont.& Northern Railway and the Georgia & Florida
Railroad. Th e order assailed was entered under § 15 -(7)
of the Interstate Commerce Act. It requires the cancellation of provisions in tariff schedules by which the'plaintiffs
seek 'to exclude *theGeorgia & Florida from participating
as connecting carrier in through routes established over.
the Carolia, Clinchfield & Oliio Railway. The Cmmission held that the restrictive schedules violated the conditions' under which that -railrded had been leased to the.
Atlantic- Coast Line and the Louisville.'& Nashville.
Clinchfield Railway Lease, 90 1. C. C. 113. The District
*Court,--three judges sitting, sustained *thevalidity of the
order, and dismissed the bill. 48 F. (2d) 239. The case is
here on direct appeal. We are -of opinion that the decre
should be affirmed.
The Clinchfield Railway. exten'di in a southerly direction from Elkhorni City, Kentucky, to Spartanburg; South
Carolina, a distance of 276.85 miles. The Atlantic Coast
Line system lies to the east and south. To the west and
south lies the Louisville & Nashville, of whose stock 51
per cent. is owned by the C6ast Line. The Clinchfield
is a link in many possible routes. between points in the
southeastern States and the north, in addition- to those
routes which are over the Atlantic Coast Line or the
Louisville & Nashville. At Elkhorn City, the Clinchfield
-coniects with the Chesapeake'and Ohio Railway, whose
system extends easA, north and west. At Spartanburg, the
"Clinchfieldconnects with the Piedmont & Northern which
extends in a southerly direction to Greenwood, South
Carblina. Arid at Green*ood the Piedmont & Northern
connects with a recently built extension of the Georgia &

ATLANTIC.COAST LINE R. CO. v. U. S.
288

291

Opinion of the Court.

Florida, which now has 464 miles of line in the three
southeastern States. The restrictive schedules excluded
from the joint rates traffic over the Clinchfield if routed
via the Georgia & Florida. Such traffic was thereby subjected to the applicable combination of higher local rates.
The effect of this was to prevent not only the Georgia &
Florida but also the Piedmont & Northern, the intermediate carrier, from participating in such business, with
the result that the traffic would be secured for the Charleston & Westorn, which the Atlantic Coast Line eontrols
through stock ownership.
In 1923 the -Atlantic Coast Line and the Louisville &
Nashville applied to the Commission for leave jointly
to lease the Clinchfield. The extension of the Georgia &
Florida to Greenwood was then in contemplation. The
Piedmont & Northern And the Georgia & Florida opposed authorization of an unconditional lease, on the
ground that if joint rates on traffic moving over the
Clinchfield should be .closed to them, they would be deprived of much traffic-which might otherwise move over
their lines or future extensions thereof. In order to
preserve, among other things, the existing and possible
through routes via the Clinchfield on railroads other than
the Atlantic Coast Line and the Louisville & Nashville,
the Commission, in authorizing the lease, made it subject to five conditions, which the lessees accepted.1 Conditioi' 1 requires the maintenance of a separate organization for the Clinchfield so that the road "shall con1

The .order of the Commission entered June 3, 1924, provided:
"That the making of said lese and exercise of any of the rights con-

ferred by this order shall ii all future proceedings, judicial as well as
administrative, to which the carriers above named or any of them
may be parties, be deemed and taken as conclusive evidence of their
acceptance of,. and agreement to abide by, the conditions enumerated
in said report,..." 90 I. C. C. at 139. Compare Control of Alabama & Vicksburg Railway, 111 I. C. C. 161,182

292

OCTOBER TERM; 1931.
Opinion of the Court..

284 U.S.

stituto p, separate operating unit." 'Condition 3.requires
the continuance of existing routes and channels of Irade,
'existing -gateways for the interchange of, traffic, and ' the.
present neutrality of Ihdndling the traffic inbound and
outbound" so as to permit equal service, routing, aid
movement of. competitive traffic to and from all connecting lines reached by the Clinchfield 2 Condition 4 re-'
quires the lessees o permit carrierfs then connecting with
the line of the Clinchfield, or which' may thereafter con.nect with'it, to participate, .without discrimination, in
through routes and joint rates on traffic. moving over
the Clinchfield as an intermediate road between points
at and beyond the Ohio River, on the one hand, and
point's iu southeastern and Carolina territory, on the
other; and that to this end the Clinchfield shall be maintained as an open route for traffic available to all carriers ccimecting with it.' The order of June 9, 1930, here
"3.'So far as lies within the power of the applicants, existingroutes-and channels of trade and commerce heretofore established by
other carriers in connection with the Clinchfield shall be preserved,
existing gateways for the interchange of traffic with such other carriers shall be maintained, and the present neutrality of handling traffic inbound and outbound by the Carolina, Clinchfield & Ohio Railway and 'i*s subsidiary, the Carolina, Clinchfield & Ohio Railway of
Smith Carolina, shall be continued so as-to permit equal opportunity
for service and routing or movement of traffic which is competitive
with traffic of the applicants, or eithei of them, to and from all con'necting lines reached by the line of the Clinchfield companies; without
discrimination in service against' such competitive traffic."
*"4. The applicants shall permit the line of the Clinchfield and its
subsidiaries to be used as a link for through traffic, via existing'gateways of interchange, or via su6u gateways as may hereafter be established under authority of the commission by means of the'connecting
lines which the Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company proposes to
build, equally available to such other carriers, now connecting, or
which may hereafter connect, with the line of the Clinchfield and its
subsidiaries, as may desire to participate in through routes and joint'
rates between points in territory north and west of the line of the

" ATLANTIC COAST LINE A. CO. v. U. 8.
288

293

•Opinion of the Court.

assailed, cancelled the restrictive schedules on the ground
that they violated Conditions 3 and 4. The plaintiffs
deny that the restrictive schedules are inconsistent with
Conditions 3 and 4; and claim that if the schedules are
inconsistefit -with the conditions, it is the conditions
I
which are void.
First. The plaintiffs contend that the restrictive schediles are consistent with the conditions because the Georgia & 'Florida is not a carrier "connecting with the
Clinchfield." The argument is that the Georgia & Florida does 'not connect, since its own rails do not:.physically abut on the Clinchfield's rails-the connection be'ing .made over the Piedmont & Northern, an, intermediate carrier. There is no warrant for limiting the meaning of "connecting lines" to those having a direct physical connection with the Clinchfield. The term is commonly! used as referring to all the lines makingup a
through rout."I
Second. The plaintiffs contend that the restrictive
schedules are consistent with the conditions, because
these assure equality of treatment only to connections existing at the time the order was entered authorizing the
Clinchfield and points at and beyond the Ohio River on the one hand

and points in the souteastem and Carolina territory on the other,
under divisions to be agreed upon by the. -applicants, or either of
them, and/or the Clinclfield organization,. on the one hand, and by
,the other participating -carrier or carriers on the other, and shall not
discriminate as to rates, fares, and charges against such participating
carrier or carriers as compared with the applicants, or -either of them;
the intention of this provision being that the line of the Clinchfield
and its subsidiaries shall be maintained as an open ro.ute equally
available to all carriers connecting with the Clinchfield for traffic
between the points designated."
' Compare cases under the Carmack Amendment. Act of January
29, 1906, . 3591, § 7, 34 Stat. 584, 595; Galveston, H. & S. A. Ry.
Co.v. Wallace, 223 U. S. 4$1, 489; Gal~vston, H. & S,A. Ry. Co. v.
Woodbury, 254 U.S. 357, 358.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Couri.

284 U.S:

lease, and the Greenwood extension, by maeans of which
the Georgia & Florida connects with the Piedmont &
Northern, was not built until several years tHereafter.
But the open route guaranteed by the conditions is not so
limited. Condition 4 prescribes that the lessees "shall
permit the line of the Clinchfield and its subsidiaries to
be used as a link for ,through traffic, . . . equally available to such other carriers, now connecting, or which may
hereafter connect, with the line of the Clinchfield and its
subsidiaries, as may desire to participate in through routes
and joint rates between points in territory north and west
of. the line of the Clinchfield and points at and beyond
the Ohio Rivet', on the one hand, and points in the Southeastern and Carolina teritory, on the other."
Third. The plaintiffs contend that, as construed, Conditions 3 and 4 conflict with the provisions of § 15 (4) of
the Act, which prohibits the Commission from requiring
a carrier to establish " without its consent" any through
route which does not embrace substantially the entire
length of its line (including lines of. controlled carriers)
between the termini of the.proposed route.' The argument is that the order, short-hauls traffic which would
otherwise pass over the Charleston & Western, and that
this road is a part of the Atlantic Coast Line System.
The Commission's order of June 3, 1924, which prescribed
S"(4) In establishing any . . . through route the commission shall
not ... require any carrier by railroad, without its consent, to embrace in such route substantially less than the entire length of its
railroad and of any intermediate railroad operated in conjunction and
under a common management or control therewith, which lies between the termini of such proposed through route, unless such inclusion of lines would make the through route unreasonably long as compared with another practicable through route which could otherwise
beestablished.. . ." Act, of June 19, 1910, c. 309, § 12, 36 Stat.
539, 552, amended by Act of February 28, 1920, c. 91, § 418, 41 Stat.
456; 485.

"ATLANTIC COAST LINE R. CO.*v. U. S.
288

2q5.,

Opinion of the Court.

the conditions did not require the lessees to abandon anyprotection given by J. 15 (4) in respect to their then exist ing lines. It was not an order establishing a. through
route.within the meaning of §_ 15 (3). In respect to"the,
Clinchfield, which the carriers sought to acquire, the Co]nimission gave them the optioa of. either consenting to
certain through routing over that road or abandoning
their plan to lease the road. In effect, the Commissibn:
found that without such a condition the proposed lease
was not in the public i-aterest. With that condition it
was. Compare Chicago Junction Case, 264 U. S. 258, 265.
It was within the powers of the Commission to make such
a condition.6 Obviously the condition was not arbitrary.
The provision was requested-by the- carriers intereited;
and it was required in order that competition' which the
Commission deemed to'be in the public interest, be preserved: Compare Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. v. United
States,,283 U. S. 35, 42. The limitation imposed by § 15
(4) of the Act upon the:CDmmission's power under.§ 15
(3) to establish through routes is designed to protect the
existing long-haul routes of carriers. Compare United
States v. Missouri Pacific R. Co., 278 U. S. 269, 277. I
applies only when the Commission is exercising the power
conferred by that paragraph. It is not a limitation upon7"'
the power of the Commission to -approve new combinations of carriers.
Ajlrmed.
-

The Commission has frequently attached similar conditions to
orders authorizing acquisitions of control. See, e. g., Chicago Junction Case, 71 I. C. C. 631, 639; Control of Alabama & Vicksburg
Railway, 1l1I. C. C. 161, 178, 179; Control of Columbia, Newberry

& Laurens, 117 I. C. C. 219, 227;. Control of Chicago Heights Terminal Transfer"R. R. Co:, 124 I. C. C. 753, 760; Acquisition of Control
by Illinois Terminal Co., 138 I. C. C. 487, 498; Acquisition of Control'

by Wabash Ry. Co.. 154 I. C. C.- 155, 162, 163.

