OCTOBER TERM, 1999
Per Curiam

DEMPSEY v. MARTIN, DISTRICT ATTORNEY FOR
SUFFOLK COUNTY
ON MOTION FOR LEAVE TO PROCEED IN FORMA PAUPERIS
No. 99-5283. Decided October 12, 1999
Held: Abusive filer of frivolous petitions is denied leave to proceed in
forma pauperisunder this Court's Rule 39.8 and barred from filing further petitions in noncriminal matters unless he first pays the docketing
fee required by Rule 38 and submits his petitions in compliance with
Rule 33.1. See Martin v. District of Columbia Court of Appeals, 506
U.S. 1.
Motion denied.
PER CURIAM.

Pro se petitioner Dempsey seeks leave to proceed in
forma pauperis under Rule 39 of this Court. We deny this
request as frivolous pursuant to Rule 39.8. Dempsey is allowed until November 2, 1999, within which to pay the docketing fees required by Rule 38 and to submit his petition in
compliance with this Court's Rule 33.1. We also direct the
Clerk not to accept any further petitions for certiorari or
petitions for extraordinary writs from Dempsey in noncriminal matters unless he first pays the docketing fee required
by Rule 38 and submits his petitions in compliance with
Rule 33.1.
Dempsey has abused this Court's certiorari and extraordinary writ processes. On October 5, 1992, we invoked Rule
39.8 to deny Dempsey informapauperis status with respect
to a petition for certiorari. See Dempsey v. Sears, Roebuck & Co., 506 U. S. 810. At that time, Dempsey had filed
11 petitions for certiorari and 1 petition for an extraordinary
writ, all of which were both frivolous and had been denied
without recorded dissent. Since that time, Dempsey has
filed five petitions for certiorari, all of which were also frivolous and denied without recorded dissent. The instant peti-

DEMPSEY v. MARTIN
STEVENS, J., dissenting

tion for certiorari thus brings Dempsey's total number of
frivolous filings to 19.
We enter the order barring prospective filings for the reasons discussed in Martin v. District of Columbia Court of
Appeals, 506 U. S. 1 (1992) (per curiam). Dempsey's abuse
of the writ of certiorari and of the extraordinary writs has
been in noncriminal cases, and we limit our sanction accordingly. The order therefore will not prevent Dempsey from
petitioning to challenge criminal sanctions which might be
imposed on him. The order will, however, allow this Court
to devote its limited resources to the claims of petitioners
who have not abused our processes.
It is so ordered.
dissenting.
For reasons previously stated, see Martin v. District of
Columbia Court of Appeals, 506 U. S. 1, 4 (1992) (STEVENS,
J., dissenting), and cases cited, I respectfully dissent.
JUSTICE STEVENS,

