WILLIAMS v. ZUCKERT.
Per Curiam.

WILLIAMS v. ZUCKERT, SECRETARY OF THE

AIR FORCE,

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COUhT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT.

No. 133.

Argued December 13, 1962.-Iecided January 14, 1963.

Certiorari was granted in this case to consider whether, under the
principles enunciated in Vitarelli v. Seaton, 359 U. S. 535, the discharge of petitioner, a veteran with Civil Service status, from the
United States Air Force for alleged misconduct was vitiated by an
improper denial of a right to cross-examination at his hearing before
the Civil Service Commission on appeal pursuant to § 14 of the
Veterans' Preference Act and the Commission's regulations thereunder. Review of the record and argument of counsel, however,
disclosed that petitioner's request for cross-examination of witnesses
was neither timely nor in conformity with the applicable regulations. Held: The Vitarelli issue is not adequately presented by
this case, and the writ of certiorari is dismissed as improvidently
granted. Pp. 531-533. (But see 372 U. S. 765.)
111 U. S. App. D. C. 294, 296 F. 2d 416, certiorari dismissed.

David I. Shapiro argued the cause for petitioner.
With him on the briefs was Sidney Dickstein.
Stephen J. Pollak argued the cause for respondents.
On the brief were Solicitor General Cox, Acting Assistant
Attorney General Guilfoyle, Bruce J. Terris, Alan S.

Rosenthal and David L. Rose.
PER CURIAM.

Petitioner, a veteran with civil service status, was discharged from his civilian position with the United States
Air Force for alleged misconduct. Subsequent to unsuccessful prosecution of appropriate administrative proceedings for review of his discharge, he brought suit in the
District Court, which granted summary judgment to the
respondent Air Force. The Court of Appeals affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1962.
Per Curiam.

371 U. S.

111 U. S. App. D. C. 294, 296 F. 2d 416. Certiorari was
granted, 369 U. S. 884, to c,nsider whether, under the
principles enunciated by this Court in Vitarelli v. Seaton,
359 U. S. 535, 544-545, petitioner's discharge Was vitiated
by an improper denial of a right to cross-examine at his
hearing before the Civil Service Commission on appeal
pursuant to § 14 of the Veterans' Preference Act of 1944'
and the implementing regulations 2 promulgated by the
Commission.
Review of the record and argument of counsel disclose,
however, that the Vitarelli issue is not adequately presented by this case; accordingly, we conclude that the writ
of certiorari should be dismissed as improvidently granted.
Although amply notified in advance of the nature of the
charges, the names of the witnesses whose affidavits had
supplied the factual'basis for his dismissal, and the date of
the hearing, neither petitioner nor his counsel made any
request, prior to the hearing, of the Air Force, of the Commission or its examiner, or of the witnesses themselves,
for their appearance for cross-examination. The request
for production of the witnesses, made only at the hearing
by petitioner's counsel, was neither timely nor in conformity with the applicable regulations, which contemplate that the party desiring the presence of witnesses,
either for direct examination or cross-examination, shall
assume the initial burden of producing them. 3
Had petitioner discharged this burden by timely attempt to obtain the attendance of the desired witnesses
and through no fault of his own failed, then, to give mean58 Stat. 390, as amended, 5 U. S. C. § 863.
25

CFR, Part 22.

35 CFR § 22.607, titled "Appearance of witnesses," provides:
"The Commission is not authorized to subpoena witnesses. The
employee and his designated representative, and the employing
agency, must make their own arrangem, nts for the appearance of
witnesses."

WILLIAMS v. ZUCKERT.
531

DOUGLaS, J., dissenting.

ing to the language contained in the regulations affording
the "opportunity . . .for the cross-examination of witnesses," ' the Air Force would have been required, upon
proper and timely request, to produce them, since they
were readily available and under the Air Force's control.
Vitarelli. v. Seaton, 359 U. S. 535, 544-545, would so
require. Here, however, though petitioner seeks to rely
upon the regulations, he has failed to bring himself within
them.
Petitioner was accorded ample opportunity to present
his own case and rebut the charges against him at several
levels of the proceedings before the Air Force and the
Civil Service Commission.
The writ of certiorari is dismissed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN concurs in the result.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

with whom MR.

JUSTICE BLACK

concurs, dissenting.
After 16 years of faithful government service, petitioner
has been branded with a stigma and discharged on the
'strength of three affidavits. Though he asked that these
affiants be produced at his hearing none was called to
confront him. The Court says that petitioner's request
came too late to conform with the applicable Regulation.'
.Due process dictates a different result. We have heretofore analogized these administrative proceedings that cast
the citizen into the outer darkness to proceedings that
"involve the imposition of criminal sanctions"; and we
have looked to "deeply rooted" principles of criminal law
45

CFR § 22.603 provides:

"Opportunity will be afforded for the introduction of evidence
(including testimony and statements by the employee and his designated representative and witnesses and by representatives of the
agency and its witnesses) and for the cross-examination of witnesses."
'See 5 CFR, pt. 22, §§ 22.603, 22.607.

OCTOBER TERM, 1962.
DOUGLAS,

371 U. S.

J., dissenting.

for guidance in construing regulations of this character.
Peters v. Hobby, 349.U. S. 331, 344-345; Greene v. McElroy, 360 U. S. 474, 496. By that analogy we should
construe the present Regulation as being protective of
the right of confrontation, not as providing a technical
way in which the right is either saved or lost.
Confrontation and cross-examination are, as I understand the law, vital when one's employment rights are
involved. See Greene v. McElroy, supra, 496; Beard v.
Stahr, 370 U. S. 41, 43 (dissenting opinion). Petitioner
is not merely being "denied . . . the opportunity to work
at one isolated and specific military installation." Cafeteria Workers v. McElroy,.367 U. S. 886, 896. The stigma
now attached to him will follow him, whatever employment he seeks. The requirements of due process provided
by the Fifth Amendment should protect him against this
harsh result by giving him the same right to confront his
accusers as he would have in a criminal trial. See Mattox
v. United States, 156 U. S. 237; 2 Kirby v. United States,
174 U. S. 47, 55; Curtis v. Rives, 123 F. 2d 936, 938. For
this discharge will certainly haunt his later life as much
as would a conviction for willful evasion of taxes.
A trial for misconduct involving charges of immorality,
like one for disloyalty, is likely to be "the most crucial
event in the life of a public servant. If condemned,
he is branded for life as a person unworthy of trfist or
confidence. To make that condemnation without metic2

"The primary object of the constitutional provision ...

to prevent depositions or ex parte affidavits .

.

. being used .

[is]
.

. in

lieu of a personal examination and cross-examination of the witness
in which the accused has an opportunity, not only of testing the
recollection and sifting the conscience of the witness; but of compelling him to stand face to face with the jury in order that they may
look at him, and judge by his demeanor upon the stand and the
manner in which he gives his testimony whether he is worthy of
belief." 156 U. S., at 242-243.

WILLIAMS v. ZUCKERT.
531

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

ulous regard for the decencies of a fair trial is abhorrent to fundamental justice." Anti-Fascist Committee v.
McGrath, 341 U. S. 123, 180 (concurring opinion).
Petitioner has been deprived of his job and permanently
stigmatized without being confronted by his accusers,
even though he requested that they be called and even
though they could easily have been produced. Petitioner
does more than rely on the Regulation. He relies on the
Fifth Amendment and the Sixth Amendment. To be
sure, his request at the hearing was not phrased in constitutional terms. But administrative procedures are not
games in which rights are won or lost on the turn of a
phrase. In the -District Court he claimed that this
procedure "was arbitrary and capricious and violative of
the Fifth and Sixth Amendments of the Constitution."
That adequately raised the issue. See Terminiello v.
Chicago, 337 U. S. 1, 6; cf. Williams v. Georgia,349 U. S.
375. It should be remembered that while a veteran's
proceeding before the Civil Service Commission is called
an "appeal," it is usually the first opportunity the employee has for a "hearing" on the charges against him.
In Vitarelli v. Seaton, 359 U. S. 535, 544-545, we construed a Regulation substantially similar to the present
one as requiring the Interior Department to call as witnesses all- "non-confidential" informants. The Government advances no persuasive reason why that case does
not control this one. At the hearing, when petitioner
requested that the witnesses be called, his request was
rejected because "the Air Force Academy saw no need
for their attendance." But one who desires confrontation with the accuser has such a conflict of interest with his
adversary that he, rather than his opponent, can better
determine what would or might be useful to his defense.'
3 A related problem revealing the manner in which business firms
are barred from participating directly or indirectly in government
contracts without notice, opportunity to be heard, and confrontation

OCTOBER TERM, 1962.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

371 U. S.

I would not say that this important constitutional right
was lost on the technicality the Court now embraces.
We should not saddle these administrative proceedings
with strict formalities concerning the manner in which
exceptions or objections are made. They have no place
in criminal proceedings, as Rule 51 of the Federal Rules
makes clear; and it is unhealthy to let them take root
in administrative hearings where human rights are involved that are as precious to "liberty," within the meaning of the Fifth Amendment, as a person's right not to
be fined or imprisoned unless prescribed procedures are

followed.
The judgment below should be reversed and the case
remanded for a full hearing.

is discussed in the Committee Report on Debarment and Suspension
of Persons from Government Contracting and Federally Assisted
Construction Work prepared for the Administrative Conference of
the United States by the Committee on Adjudication of Claims,
October 1, 1962.
4

Rule 51 provides:

"Exceptions to rulings or orders of the court are unnecessary and
for all purposes for which an exception has heretofore been necessary
it is sufficient that a party; at the time the ruling or order of the
court is made or sought, makes known to the court the action which
he desires the court to take or his objection to the action of the court
and the grounds therefor; but if a party has no opportunity to object
to a ruling or order, the absence of an objection does not thereafter
prejudice him."

