OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

206 U. S.

LOWREY v. HAWAII.
APPEAL -FROM

THE SUPREME

COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF

HAWAII.
No. 195.

Argued March 20, 1907.-Decided May 13, 1907.

A foreign mission board maintaining a school in Hawaii in 1849 turned the
school over to the government under an agreement, expressed in correspondence that the government should maintain it as an institution
for the cultivation of sound literature and solidscience, that no religious
tenet or doctrine contrary to those inculcated by the mission, a summary
of which was transmitted in the correspondence, should be taught, and
that in case the government did not so maintain it, it should pay to the
mission $15,000. After maintaining the school for many years as it had
been maintained under the mission,. the government converted it into
an agricultural college and religion ceased to be a part of the curriculum.
Meanwhile the constitution of Hawaii of 1894 prohibited the appropriation of any money for sectarian institutions. Held, in an action brought
by the Mission to recover the $15,000, that,
Extrinsic evidence; as to what the parties did and the nature of the course
of instruction when the agreement was made, and thereafter as continued
by the government, was admissible to prove the intent of the parties as
to what was meant by sound literature and solid science, and that under
all the circumstances the agreement-was that religious instruction was
to be continued and on the failure of the government to continue such
instruction the Mission was entitled to recover the $15,000.
The government of Hawaii was not relieved from its contract obligation
by reason of the adoption of the constitutional prohibition against appropriation for sectarian institutions.

THIS action was brought in the Supreme Court of the Territory of Hawaii to recover from the Territory the sum of $15,000
as the alternative of the reconveyance of certain property conveyed by the American Board of Commissioners of Foreign
Missions in 1849 to the Hawaiian government, for the nonful-,
fillment of the conditions upon which the property was con-

LOWREY v. HAWAII.
'06 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

veyed. A demurrer was sustained to the petition and thereupon this appeal was taken.
The following is an outline of thc principal facts alleged:
The American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions;
hereinafter called the American Board, for many years' prior
to 1850 had conducted and maintained a Protestant Mission in
the Hawaiian Islands, and as an essential part of its missionary
work carried on many schools. Its most notable educational
work was centered in a school established in 1831 at Lahainaluna, on the Island of Maui, where it possessed a large tract
of land. This school and the premises occupied by it were set
off by the chiefs to the Protestant Mission in 1835. On the
buildings and other improvements many thousands of dollars
were expended, and the school had, in 1850, become a most
important factor in the life and progress of the Hawaiian people,
and was recognized as the leading educational institution in
the kingdom.
The course of instruction comprised not only the usual
topics belonging to secular learning, but included also direct
religious teaching and training in the doctrines represented
by the Mission.'
1Laws of the High School, as Amended and Adopted by the Mission June,
1835.
Chapter I.
Design of the School.
The design of the High School is,
1. To aid the Mission in accomplishing the great work for which they were
sent hither; that is, to introduce and perpetuate the religion of our Lord and
Saviour Jesus Christ, with all its accompanying blessings, civil, literary and
religious.
4. Another object still more definite and of equal or greater importance, is,
to educate young men of piety and promising talents, with a view to their
becoming assistant teachers of religion, or fellow laborers with us in disseminating the gospel of Jesus Christ to their dying fellow men.
Chapter VII.
Of the Studies of the 'School.
4. The whole school shall meet between daylight and sunrise each week

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

206 U. S.

These facts were established before the board of commissioners to quiet land titles'to which the claim of the American
Board to Lahainaluna, as an established part of its system,
was duly presented and recognized, and the board of commissioners adjudged as follows: "Lahainaluna, part 5, section 2,
claim relinquished before the land commission in consequence
of an after-arrangement having been entered into with the
Hawaiian government by the Mission. Vol. 3 L. C. Award,
p. 143 et seq., upon the final confirmation which was duly made
to the said A. B. C. F. M. all the lands claimed were awarded,
'with the exception of section 2, Lahainaluna, which had been
withdrawn.' "
The "after-arrangement" referred to in the records of the
land commission was as follows:
"Because of financial stress, and also feeling that the school,
which had really become a national institution, should be
conducted by the government at its own expense, in April,
1849, the Mission, at- its general mission held -at Honolulu,
voted as follows: 'To make over this seminary to the government, it being understood that it is to be conducted on the
same principles as heretofore.'
"An offer was thereupon made to the government in pursuance to this vote of the Mission to make over the school to
the government on condition that it should be continued at
its expense as an institution for the cultivation of sound literature and solid science, andi further, that it shall not teach or
allow to be taught any religious tenet or doctrine contrary to
those heretofore inculcated by the Mission, a summary of
which will be found in the confession of faith herewith enclosed,
day for prayer, at which one of the instructors shall -preside; the roll shall be
called, absentees marked and called to an account at least once a week.
6. On the afternoons of Tuesdays and Thursdays each week, or at other
times equivalent, the whole school shall meet for biblical instruction, embracing the interpretation of Scripture, evidence of Christianity, archeology
and sacred geography. And Friday afternoon of each week or time equivalent shall be spent in exhibiting and correcting compositions in the Hawaiian
language and in elocution.

LOWREY v. HAWAII.
2C6 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

and that in case of the non-fulfillment or violation of the conditions upon which this transfer is made by the said government, the whole property hereby transferred,, hereinbefore
specified, together with any additions of improvements, should
revert to the said Mission."
This offer as made was not accepted by the government,
but it instead submitted a counter offer to the Mission, by
which it offered to take over the school on the conditions made
in the Mission's original offer, but "provided that in case of the
non-fulfillment on the part of this government of the conditions
specified in the letter of the above-named gentlemen, it shall
be optional with this government to allow the institution, with
all additions and improvementa which may have been made
upon 'the premises and all rights and privileges connected
therewith, to revert to the said Mission, to be held in behalf
of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions,
or to pay the sum of. $15,000; provided also that in case this
government shall find it expedient to divert this establishment to other purposes than those of education it shall be at
liberty to do so, on condition that it sustain an institution of
like character and on similar principles in some other place on
the island or pay the sum of $15,000 to said Mission in behalf
of the Mission Board in Boston."
A more definite form of the "confession of faith" was substituted and accepted by the government, and the whole arrangement ratified by the Hawaiian legislature, Law of 1850
(F. C. 1850), 158, sec. 1 of Civil Code (1859), sec. 783, and by
the prudential committee of the American Board.
The letter of the Mission to the Minister of Public Instruction is inserted in the margin.1
'Exhibit A.
HoNOLULU, April, 25, 1849.
To His Ex. R. Armstrong, Minister of Public Instruction of the Hawaiian
Islands.
Sir: The undersigned, a committee of the general meeting of the Mission of
the A. B. C. F. M., at the Sandwich Islands, appointed in reference to the
Mission Seminary at Lahainaluna, Maui, beg leave through your Excellency

VOL. CCVI-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

206 U. S.

The Hawaiian government at once took possession of the
Lahainaluna Seminary and carried on the school exactly as it
had been conducted by the Mission, both in religious instruction and the inculcation of sound literature and solid science.
For many years after the government had taken over the
school the principals of the school continued their relations as
missionaries of the American Board in their work in the school,
and continued to make reports of their educational and religious
to offer a few remarks respecting that institution, and make some proposals
in reference to it to His Majesty's Government for its consideration.
It is well known to His Majesty and also to most of the members of his
government that in the year 1831 the mission commenced the establishment
of the institutionnow known as the Mission Seminary at Lahainaluna, Maui,
to promote the diffusion of enlightened literature and Christianity throughout the islands.
From that period to the present time this institution has been unceasingly
and anxiously watched over, cherished and cared for by the Mission. No
expense or pains coming within its appropriate means or'power have been
spared to promote its usefulness and secure the objects of its establishment.
Three missionaries have for a large portion of the time been devoted to its
interests, and two at all times since the two or three first years of its existence.
About $77,000.00 have been expended for its benefit, including the support
of the teachers and the dwellings erected for their accommodation.
We need not point you to the fruits of this cherished institution, scattered
throughout the islands, filling various posts of honor, responsibility and
usefulness, both in and out of the government. They are well known to His
Majesty, and the officers of his government, and to none better than yourself.
The institution has been planted and sustained to the present time by the
American Board of Commissioners of Foreign Missions, from donations given
by the American churches for the spread of the gospel in heathen lands.
That board, as we learn by recent intelligence; was at the close of its last
financial year embarrassed by a debt of $60,000.00, incurred in the prosecution of its labors of benevolence and mercy.
As a consequence of its indebtedness, it has been obliged to curtail its expenditures by diminishing its grants to each one of the missions under its
care, and this Mission, in common with others, has shared in the general
reduction.
For this reason the Mission will be unable to carry forward its operations
with the vigor to be desired in all of its departments of labor. Some must
almost inevitably suffer for want of pecuniary means.
In view of these facts, and believing that under present circumstances the
transfer of this institution to the fostering care and patronage of Government
will promote the highest interests of the Hawaiia. people, we beg leave

LOWREY v. HAWAII.
206 U. S.

211

Statement of the Case.

work and iustruction in the school to the general meetings of
the Mission.
In 1862 the seminary buildings were burned down. Other
buildings were built. The principal, in his report for that
year, 1862-1863 , reviewing the history Of the school, says: "The
Hawaiian government has always been a liberal friend and
benefactor.

.

.

.

Never in any way have they interfered

with our manner of instruction, or in the course of instructions
through your Excellency to submit to His Majesty's government for its consideration the following proposals, viz:
That the Mission of the A. B. C. F. M. at the Sandwich Islands, acting for
and in behalf of the said American Board of Commissioners of Foreign Missions, having its headquarters in Boston, State of Massachusetts, in the
United States of America, relinquish all of their right, title and interest to
and in the seminary buildings located at Lahainaluna on the island of Maui
and known as the Mission Seminary, together with all of the dwelling houses
at that station erected by the Mission at the expense of the said A. B, C. F. M.,
for the use of the teachers in the said Mission Seminary; also the building
erected by the mission as a printing office and bindery; also all lands pertaining to and.granted for the use of the Missionary Seminary, and also all philosophical and other apparatus procured for the use of the said seminary, also
the public library Of the said institution, and to transfer the same to the
Hawaiian Government for its use, benefit and behoof to have and to hold
the same forever.
Providing, however, and this transfer is made upon the express condition
that the said Hawaiian Government agrees that the. said institution shall be
continued at its expense, as an institution for the cultivation of sound literature and solid science; and, further, that it.shall not teach or allow to be
taught any religious tenet or doctrine contrary to those heretofore inculcated by the Mission, which we represent, a summary of which will be found
in the confession, of faith herewith enclosed, and in that in case of the nonfulfillment or violation of the tonditions upon which this transfer is made
by the said government, the whole property hereby .transferred, hereinbefore
specified, together with any additions or improvements which may have
been made upon the premises, and all the right and privileges hereby conveyed or transferred to the Hawaiian Government by the said Island Mission shall revert'to the said Mission, to have and to hold the same for and in
behalf of the American Board of Commissioners of Foreign Missions.
These proposals, if accepted, by the Hawaiian Government, shall not have
binding force until they shall have received the sanction of the Prudential
Committee of the American Board Commissioners of Foreign Missions in
Boston, and further, should the said Hawaiian Government accept the propo3als here presented, and enter forthwith upon the fulfillment of the condi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

206 U. S.

pursued. In our work we have had all the freedom which we
possibly could have had under the A. B. C. F. M." Also, referring to pupils who, under the religious instruction at the
school, became ministers, he says: "While six who were connected with it since it has been under the care of the Hawaiian
government have been ordained to the same office."
Prior to the establishment of the Anglican Church in Hawaii
the board of education appointed as instructors such persons
as were acceptable to the Mission, generally selecting those
nominated by the Mission. When the Anglican Mission was
established it was proposed that the forms and probably the
substance of religious instruction should be changed, and advice was asked of the Attorney General. His reply reviewed
the whole arrangement upon which the government received
the seminary, and concluded as follows: "Should the govern-

ment not be willing to keep the conditions as far as I have
shown, then the'-property and improvements must be restored
to the A. B. C. F. M."
tions, andshould the said transfer not meet tile approbation of the Prudential Committee, the Mission, on its part, pledges itself to refund to the said
Government any necessary expenses it -may have incurred in carrying on
the institution whilst the parties were awaiting the ratification or rejection
of this transfer by the said Prudential Committee. Provided, however, that
moneys shall not have been expended in enlargement or improvements,
other than what may have been actually necessary to keep the buildings in
repair and carry on the institution.
In case of disagreement of the parties as to the amount proper to be refunded, in case of the non-ratification of this conveyance by the Prudential.
Committee, the sum shall be determined by two arbitrators, one of which
shall be chosen by ech of the respective parties, and which arbitrators in
case of disagreement shall elect a third to decide upon the award.
The foregoing remarks and proposals are respectfully submitted for the
consideration of His Majesty's Government, and I
feel greatly obliged
by an early answer.
We have the honor to be,
Very respectfully, your ex. friends and most obedient servants,
W. P. ALEXANDER,
C. B. ANDREWS,
S. N. CASTLE, Com.,

By S. N.

CASTLE.

LOWREY v. HAWAII.
206 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

In 1865 the Hawaiian Gazette, the official mouthpiece of the
government, declared that the government had resolved that
its support, should be given to schools irrespective of their
religious teaching, but pointed out that the board of education
might be chargeable with partiality for supporting a state
church, inasmuch as it paid large sums to defray the expenses
of Lahainaluna, where the principles and theology of one
particular sect were exclusively taught, although opposed to
the belief of all in communion with Roman Catholic and Episcopal churches.
In the following years, upon the suggestion by the Mission
of certain instructors, a correspondence arose' between the
board of education and the Mission, in which the board of
education said that it. was understood that the institution
was to be continued so as to aid instead of to defeat the purpose for which it had been founded, and that nothing had
been done to justify the intimation that the board had any
desire to defeat such purpose, and admitted "that a full compliance with agreement consists in appointing persons teaching in the doctrine and after the manner of the Congregational
and Presbyterian Churches of the. United States." And further: "The board are fully aware that if they do not see fit
to carry on the institution according to the terms of the contract, they have to reconvey it, or pay the sum of $15,000."
After 1865 the seminary continued to be conducted on the
same lines as prior thereto.
In 1894, in the constitution of the Republic of Hawaii, it
was provided that
propriated . . .

". .
No public money shall be apfor the support of (or?) benefit of any

sectarian, denominational or private school." This provision
is continued and remains in full force as a part of section 55
of the organic act.
Religious instruction ceased to be a part of the curriculum
at Lahainaluna, as provided in the agreement, on or about
September 1, 1903, at which date the religious tenets and
doctrines, in accordance with the creed and articles of faith

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

206 U. S.

of the Mission, ceased to be taught, and are no longer taught.
The "cultivation of sound literature and solid science" has
also ceased, and the institution has become a technical school
under the name of "The Lahainaluna Agricultural School."
The Territory maintains no other institution of like character and on similar principles in any other place on the island.
The appellants are the successors of the American Board of
Commissioners for Foreign Missions.
Upon these facts, it is alleged, that appellants have become
entitled to a return of the property conveyed or to the payment of $15,000; that the Territory has refused to do either,
but has elected to retain the property, which election is evidenced by its refusal to pay the said sum, and the further fact
that it is proceeding to erect expensive buildings thereon and
expend large sums of money to fitting the property and the
school to become a technical school, namely, an agricultural
college.
The petition was demurred to upon grounds substantially
as follows:
1. That the court had no jurisdiction of the subject matter
of the claim. 2. That the United States was a necessary party,
the property described in the petition having been transferred
and ceded to the United States by the treaty of annexation
of July 7, 1898. 3. That the petition did not set out facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action in that, (a) it did not
appear that the agreement set forth in the petition was ratified
by the legislature; (b) that the right 'f action accrued more
than two years prior to the commencement of the action;
(c) it did not appear that there had been a breach of the conditions of the agreement; (d) or if so, that it occurred in compliance with law and statutes which rendered the fulfillment
of the conditions impossible. 4. That the petition was indefinite and uncertain, in that the allegations as to breach of
conditions pleaded were conclusions of law, it nowhere appearing in.
the petition in what respect the conditions had
been broken. The Supreme Court overruled the first, second

LOWREY v. HAWAII.
206 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

and fourth grounds, and divisions a and b of the third ground
of demurrer.
Mr. David L. Withington, with whom Mr. William R. Castle,
Mr. W. 0. Smith, Mr. A. Lewis, Jr., and Mr. C. H. Olsen
were on the brief, for appellants:
The central purpose of the agreement was to "continue" an
established institution, the keystone of a system with defined
and well-known aims,- the chief being the promotion of religion by instruction in definite religious truth.
The agreement was not one which the parties looked upon as
setting forth in haec verba the final form of the agreement. The
resolutions of the Mission were directed- to be transmitted to
the government.
-Both parties contemplated. that the language used was not
a definite and final expression such as is contained in that\
class of documents from which the rule of interpretation of
written documents arose, namely, engrossed writings, and all
the more thi, Court should look for the spirit of the agreement,
the situation of the parties, their motives, their conduct, their
after-construction of the agreement, and putting itself in their
place construe it as the parties construed it.
Parol evidence is necessary iu. order to- apply the contract,
for it was undoubtedly a part of the contract that an existing
institution should be continued, and it is a matter of fact to
be determined by parol evidence what that existing institution was.
This evidence shows that the promotion of religion by the
inculcation of a definite system of doctrine was the central
purpose of the Mission and of the seminary.
In resorting to parol evidence to determine the character of
the institution to be continued, it is necessary to examine into
its source; the purpose of its establishment, its aims, its methods,
which inquiries reveal that the Mission from which it sprung
believed in a system of theology, and believed absolutely and
conscientiously that that system could be applied to the gov-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellants.

206 U. S.

ernment of a state and was the only perfect rule of guidance,
particularly for a savage nation in its rudimentary development
to civilization and Christianity. Therefore, they purposed to
found in Hawaii a theocracy in which the Scriptures as interpreted by their creed should be the fundamental law, to inculcate which they established a system of schools in which the
study of the Scripture and of religious truth was the primary
purpose, of which system the Lahainaluna Seminary, from
which preachers and teachers of that truth should go forth, was
the keystone.
This is consistent with the conduct of the parties at the time,
their declarations in the correspondence and the construction
which has been put upon the agreement in after years. Can
it be, when the Mission has been lulled into security by the
assurance of the Hawaiian government as late as 1865 that there
was no misunderstanding as to the construction of the contract, that after forty years longer adherence it can now be
repudiated?
A term can be read into a contract from the surrounding
circumstances. Bradley v. Packet Co., 13 Pet. 89.
Extrinsic evidence is admissible, of all the circumstances
surrounding the author of an instrument, to explain the sense
in Which he understood it. Reed v. Merchants' Mut. Ins. Co.,
95 U. S.23.
Even if there is no provision in the contract, evidence of
the circumstances may be offered to show that such was a
part of. the contract. Field v. Munson, 47 N. Y. 221; Shouse
v' Doan, 39 Florida, 95; Savings Bank v. Fraze, 9 Ind. App.
161; Staples v. Lumber Co., 56 Minnesota, 16; O'Dea v. City of
Winona, 41 Minnesota, 424; Jennings v. Whitehead Co., 138
Massachusetts, 594; Erskine v. Adeane, L. R. 8 Ch. 756; Katz
v. Bedford, 77 California, 319; Gas Co. v. Braddock Wire Co.,
155 Pa. St. 22; Cleburne Water Co. v. Cleburne, 138 Tex. Civ.
App. 141; Nilson v. Morse, 52 Wisconsin, 240. And see 6
Eng. Ruling Cas. 169.
The instruments construed as a whole make it a -necessary

LOWREY v. HAWAII.
206 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

inference that the maintenance of religious instruction and
training in the doctrines of the mission were a part of the contract, and this term will be read in. 2 Page on Contracts,
1740, ยง 1118.
Courts have even gone so far as to hold that where the contract speaks of one, the plural can be inferred. Halt v. First
National Bank, 133 Illinois, 234. So a conveyance for use as
a burial place for a member of the Roman Catholic church
in consecrated ground would restrict the lot holder from
interring therein- any person not recognized by the church
authorities as a Catholic, although no such clause was in the
agreement. Dwenger v. Geary, 113 Indiana, 106.
Mr. Lorrin Andrews, Mr. E. C. Petersand Mr. M. F. Prosser,
for appellee, submitted:
Such conditions as were attached to the transfer of Lahainaluna Seminary were conditions subsequent.
Conditions subsequent are not favored in law and are strictly
construed as against the grantor and nothing will be taken by
way of intendment in favor of the grantor. 4 Kent's Com.
138; Woodworth v. Payne, 74 N. Y. Rep. 196-199.
It does not appear by the record that any of the conditions
of the transfer have been broker..
The condition that "it shall not teach or allow to be taught
any religious tenet or doctrine contrary to those heretofore inculcated by the mission which we represent, a summary of
which will be found in the Confession of Faith herewith enclosed" certainly is not shown to be broken by the pleadings;
it would require an allegation that religious doctrines contrary
to the adopted creed were taught. In no other way could a
breach of the foregoing condition be shown.
This leaves the -question whether the agreement to teach
sound literature and solid science was broken by failure to
teach those branches of learning otherwise than they would
require to be taught in a technical school and school of agriculture.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

An agreement to teach solid science is not violated, but is
observed, by teaching applied science relating to agriculture.
The science of agriculture cannot be taught without imparting
at the same time instruction in the literature relating to the
science. It is not apparent why such literature, so taught,
is not as sound or as valuable as are literary studies undertaken
by themselves, or that the agreement is broken by teaching
solely that literature Which is limited by the study of science..
When the -performance of conditions sfibsequent is prevented by the act of God or becomes contrary to law by reason.-of the transfer of the territory or change. of government,
failure to fulfill. such conditions will not work a forfeiture of
the estate. United States v. Arredondo, 6 Pet. 745; Scoville v.
McMahon 62 Connecticut, 378; Wheeler v. Moody, 9 Texas,
371-376.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, after makipig the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The contentions of the parties are sharply in opposition as
to the agreement and the necessity and competency of extrinsic- evidence to explain it. Appellee contends that we are
confined to the Jetter of the agreenient, and so confined its
conditions have been fulfilled. In other words, that "sound
literature and solid science" are still cultivated, and that no
religious tenet or doctrine contrary to those heretofore inculcated-by' the Mission is taught. Or, to express the contention
in language other-than that of the agreement, that a school
devoted to one subject of secular science and which excludes
-all religious' teaching was contemplated by or is permitted
by the agreement. Opposing these viewsr appellants contend
that a mere technical school does-not fulfill the agreement; that
the terms of the agreement require the "inculcation of generallearning and knowledge," accompanied with religious instruc-tion in accordance -with the confession of faith submitted to the
Hawaiian government. And, it is insisted, that if there isany-

LOWREY v. HAWAII.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

thing doubtful in the agreement, it may be interpreted by the
circumstances which preceded it and the immediate and longcontinued practice under it. If we may resort to those circumstances and that practice there cannot be a shade of doubt
as to the intention of the parties. It is insisted, however, by
the appellee that the agreement is clear and unambiguous and
that it does not present a case for the resort to extrinsic evidence. We cannot concur with this view. There is quite a
range of meaning in the words "sound literature and solid
science." To interpret or specialize them and make definite
application of them would certainly receive aid from the
practice of the parties. -It is contended by appellant that
there was a close connection between them and the "definite
system of doctrine" which was the "central purpose of the
Mission." We, however, need not dwell further upon this
contention, though a plausible argument has been advanced
to sustain it, and we pass to the next controverted contention.
-The Words of the agreement are that the government "shall
not teach or allow to be taught any religious tenet or doctrine
contrary to those heretofore inculcated by the Mission, a
summary of which will be found in the confession of faith
herewith enclosed . . . " Were these words all there was
of prohibition and purpose as. to religion? May we believe that
it became suddenly the'purpose to change an institution which
had had its impulse and foundation in religious zeal to convert the Hawaiians to Christianity and to educate young men
to be-" teachers of religion," to one simply literary and scientific
and nonsectarian? Had the belief of the Mission in its form
of Christian faith become so indifferent that it would transfer
a seminary instituted for the propagation of that faith with
no other condition than that contrary tenets. should not be
taught? There is not a syllable in this record to justify such
assumptions. It must be remembered that we are considering
a transaction which occurred in the Hawaiian Islands in 1849,
and by the conditions of that time were the acts of the parties
induced. Besides, the agreement is not in a formally executed

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

paper. It is found in a correspondence, and is constituted and
explained by the. whole of the correspondence. And taking
the whole of it, there is very little aid from extrinsic evidence
needed to demonstrate its meaning and purpose.
The Mission reminds the Minister of Public Instruction that
the seminary was established in 1831, "to promote the diffusion of enlightened literature and Christianity throughout the
islands," and that it had been unceasingly watched Qver,
cherished and cared for by the Mission, and that $77,000 had
been expended for its benefit. It was stated that in consequence of debts incurred "in the prosecution of its labors of
benevolence and mercy" the American Board of Commissioners of Foreign Missions was compelled to diminish its
grants to each of the missions under its care, including the
Hawaiian mission, and that the latter for that reason would
be "unable to carry forward its operations with the vigor to
be desired in all of its departments of labor." In view of these
facts, it was stated and believed that under the circumstances
the transfer of the institution "to the fostering care and
patronage of the government" would "promote the highest
interest of the Hawaiian people." An offer was then made to
transfer the seminary with the conditions which we have referred to. A confession of faith was enclosed. "The government modified the proposal by reserving the right to pay
$15,000, as an alternative to the reversion of the property to
the Mission if the government should not fulfill the conditions of the grant. The. modification was accepted, and in a
subsequent communication a new confession of faith was substituted to that originally proposed. The following are the
reasons which were given:
"The reasons for requesting the substitution are, that the
previously presented confession, although according in all its
specified doctrines with our belief and with that also of the
churches by whom that institution has been founded and
sustained, is yet not so distinctive, as to present a barrier to
the introduction there, of other deleterious doctrine not speci-

BWREY v. HAWAII.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

fled in said confession. It will adnit, also, of teachings of this
Missiofi and of the churches sustaining it, such as we feel to
be entirely subversive of evangelical Christianity. Not doubting, but that these reasons will commend themselves to the
members of His Majesty's Government, we beg leave to express in presenting them the high consideration with which
we remain."
The correspondence concerned the transfer of a school established in 1835, the design of which was to perpetuate the
Christian religion, and with an object described to be "still
more definite and of equal 6r greater importance," that is,,
"to educate young men to be Christian ministers." A religious
instruction was prescribed. All this the government was. informed of when the proposition was made to transfer the school
ta its "fostering care and patronage." And the government
accepted the grant, accepted as it was tendered; and necessarily
for the purpose it was tendered.
Even if we stopped here, conviction of the justness of that
conclusion is almost indisputable. It becomes indisputable
if extrinsic evidence be considered, and we have no doubt that
it may be. In Bradley v. W. A. & G. Packet Co., 13 Pet. 89,
a contract expressed in a correspondence between the parties
for the hire of a steamboat, an exception was engrafted which
was, not expressied, upon evidence, that the 6wner of the boat
knew the service for which it was intended, and that when
navigation was obstructed by ice another mode of transportation was resorted to. The court said, as to extrinsic evidence,
it was applied in some cases "to ascertain the identity of the
subject- in others its extent. In some, to ascertain the meaning of a term, where it had acquired by use a broad meaning;
in others, to ascertain in what sense it was used, where it admitted of several meanings.: But in all the purpose was the
same. To ascertain by this medium of proof the intention of
the parties, where without the aid of such evidence that could
not be done, so as to give a just interpretation to the contract." And it was expressed "as the just result" of the cases,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

"that in giving effect to a written contract, by applying it to
its proper subject matter, extrinsic evidence may be admitted
to prove the circumstances under which it was made; whenever without the aid of such evidence, such application could
not be made in the particular case." In Brooklyn Life Insurance Co. v. Dutcher, 95 U..S. 269, it was said: "There is no
surer way to find out what parties meant than to see what they
have done." So obvious and potent a principle hardly needs
the repetition it has received. And equally obvious and potent
is a resort to the circumstances and conditions which preceded
a contract. Necessarily in such circumstances and conditions
will be found the inducement to the contract and a test of its
purpose. The conventions of parties may chatige such circumstances and conditions, or continue them, but it cannot
be separated from them. And this makes the value of contemporaneous construction. It is valuable to explain a statute
where disinterested judgment is alone invoked and exercised.
It is of greater value to explain a contract where self-interest
is quick to discern the extent of rights or obligations, and
never yield more than the written or spoken word requires.
See, for further illustration, the following: Reid v. Merchants'
Mutual Insurance Co., 95โข U. S. 23; District of Columbia v.
Gallagher, 124 U. S. 505; Topliff v. Topliff, 122 U. S. 121;
Paigev. Banks, 13 Wall. 608; PhiladelphiaR. R. Co. v. Trimble.
10 Wall. 367; Chicagov. Sheldon, 9 Wall. 50; Carazoov. Travano,
6 Wall. 733; Simpson v. United States, 198 U. S. 397, 399;
Chicago Great Western Railway Co: v. Northern Pacific Railway Co., 101 Fed. Rep. 792. And many state cases could be
cited.
The design of studies for the school we have detailed. The
governmerit recognized and continued both without question
or change in any way. The seminary buildings were burned
down in 1862. .The government rebuilt them and continued
the school. The -petition alleges that the principal of the school
in-- 1862-1863 in his report said: "The Hawaiian government
.
has always been a liberal friend and benefactor

LOWREY v. HAWAII.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Never in any way have they interfered with our manner of
instruction or in the course of instruction pursued: In our
work we have had all the freedom which we possibly could
have had under the A. B. C. F. M." Also, referring to pupils
who, under the religious instruction at the school, became
ministers; he says: "While six Who were connected with it
since it has been under the care of the Hawaiian government
have been ordained to the same office."
In 1864 new interests appeared and a change in the purpose
of the school commenced to be urged. It was met by an adverse opinion of the Attorney General, who pointed out the
conditions of the transfer and the condition of their nonfulfillment to be the restoration of the property to the A. B.
C. F. M. And, again, in 1865 the board of education, while
denying the right of the Mission to nominate instructors, conceded the obligation to continue the institution, "so as to aid,
instead of defeating, the purpose for which it was founded,"
and the alternative to be the surrender of the property or the
payment of $15,000. "Religious instruction," it is alleged,
"upon the lines formerly pursued by the Mission and subsequently by the government, in accordance with the agreement,
was continued up to or about September 1, 1903." We hence
see that not only the immediate practice of the government
construed the agreement as contended for by appellants, but
the practice of over fifty years proclaimed the same meaning
-=proclaimed it without question and against a suggestion
and agitation to reject it. It is somewhat staggering to be
told that such continuity of practice is not a legal interpreter
of the meaning of the parties and that the only criterion can
be a precise and isolated form of words which, at the end. of
half a century of contrary admission and declaration, one of
the parties finds it convenient to bring forward.
It is no defense that the government's policy has changed.
It cannot so release itself from its engagements. The provision for the teaching of "sound literature and solid science"
might be considered of "expansive character," to use the

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

description of. Lieber, and change with the progress of both.
The provision for religious teaching is unchanging. It is as.
definite and absolute ,to-day as it was when it was written.
The alternative of it the agreement has made the return of the
property conveyed, or the payment of $15,000.
Judgment reversed and case remanded, with directions to proceed in conformity with this opinion.
MR.

JUSTICE BREWER

took no part in the decision of this

case.

HENRY E. FRANKENBERG COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 257. Argued April 12, 1907.-Decided May 13, 1907.
In construing a tariff act the court cannot disregard the condition upon which
the law makes the duty depend. Under paragraph 408 of the tariff act of
1897, 30 Stat. 151, 189, metal beads strung on cotton cords or strings,
although only temporarily strung to facilitate transportation, are subject
to the higher duty of forty-five per cent, and not to the lower duty of
thirty-five per cent. as beads "not threaded or strung."
146 Fed. Rep. 63, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Frederick W. Brooks for petitioner.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Sanford for respondent.
MR.

JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

The question involved in this case is whether certain importations of metal beads are dutiable under paragraph 408 of the

