UNITED STATES v. PAINE LUMBER CO.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. PAINE LUMBER COMPANY.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT -OF WISCONSIN.

No. 101.

Submitted April 15, 1907.-Decided May 27, 1907.

The title of-Indians to lands belonging to the tribe is more than the right of
mere occupation, and although the actual title may be in the United States
it is held in trust for the Indians and the restraint on alienation should
not be exaggerated.
Indian allottees under the Stockbridge and Munsie treaty of 1856, 11 Stat.
663, and the Act of February 6, 1871, 16 Stat. 404, were vested with suffi-cient title in their allotments to authorize the cutting of timber, for sale
and n6t by way of improvements, without the approval of the Department of the Interior.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
The Solicitor General and Mr. Henry C. Lewis, Special
Assistant to the Attorney General, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Chai 6s Barber and Mr. J. (7. Thompson, for defendant
in error.
MR.

JUSTICE

McKENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

Action by the United States against the Paine Lumber
Company for the recovery of the value of a quantity of timber
and logs, to wit: 7,500 feet of basswood; 6,500 feet of elm;
.51,020 feet of pine logs, alleged to have been cut and removed
from certain lands in the Eastern District of Wisconsin.
The answer contained denials of the complaint, and set up
that defendant company purchased the basswood and elm
logs of one Thomas Gardner, and the pine logs of one Daniel

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

Davids, in the fore part of 1899, the logs being at the time in
the county of'Shawano in Wisconsin, and being in possession
of Gardner and Davids respectively, who claimed and represented themselves to be the sole and absolute owners thereof,
and that defendant in the regular course of its business sold
and disposed of them.
Defendant also pleaded payment of the sum of $271.37 in
full satisfaction and accord.
The action was tried by the court, who found the following
facts:
'That the defendant is and was during all the times mentioned in the complaint a duly incorporated Wisconsin corporation.
"That long prior to the commencement of this action and
long prior to the acts alleged in the complaint the head men
or council of the Stockbridge and Munsie Indians, claiming
-authority so to do under the treaties and arrangements with
the. United States, allotted to one Thomas Gardner the east
half of the northwest quarter of section thirty-five (35), township twenty-eight (28); range fourteen (14) east, of the fourth
principal meridian, of the State of Wisconsin, and, to one
Daniel Davids the northeast quarter of the southeast quarter
of section twenty-one (21), township twenty-eight (28), range
fourteen (14) east, of the fourth principal meridian, of the
State of Wisconsin, said lands being a part of the tract of land
given to the Stockbridge and Munsie Indians by the treaty
of '1856, each of said Indians being a member of said tribe Of
Stockbridge. and Munsie Indians and the head of a family,
and the said allotments being made to them respectively as
their separate and individual allotments and being the same
lands described in -the complaint herein.
"That thereupon Thomas Gardner and Daniel Davids
entered into immediate possession of their respective allotments and- each of them has ever since claimed to hold the
same as his allotment and has constantly asserted his ownership and right to take the timber therefrom without restric-

UNITED STATES v. PAINE LUMBER CO.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tions under the said treatyand arrangements with the plaintiff.
"That no patent has ever been issued for either of said parcels
of land and that the ownership of the same by said Indians
has received no official sanction on the part of the plaintiff
aside -from the recognition of their respective rights to the.

occupancy of the parcels so claimed and held by them respectively as aforesaid.
. "And that their respective rights to the occupancy of their
respective parcels of land allotted to them as aforesaid has been
recognized by the United States..
"That the timber and logs involved in this case, to wit,.
7,500 feet of basswood, 6,500 of elm, and 51,020 feet of pine
were cut in the winter of 1898-1899, upon said lespective parcels of land by the said Thomas Gardner and the said' Daniel
Davids, respectively, not for the purpose of clearing the land
for cultivation, but for the purpose of providing means for
the support of their families, and that such cutting by each
of them was done in good faith, and. each of them claiming
.and believing that he had the. right to so cut for said purpose.
"That after said cutting, and in the summer of'1899, at
Weeds Point, in the county of Shawano, Wisconsin, the said
logs were .bought by the defendant of said Thomas Gardner
and Daniel Davids, the same then and there being at said
Weeds Point and off of the said reservation, for a valuable
and fair consideration.
"That the defendant bought the same in good faith, believing the said Thomas Gardner and the said Daniel Davids
were the bona fide and absolute owners thereof, and that they
respectively were lawfully entitled to sell the logs cut from
their respective allotments.
"That at the time of the cutting -of the timber in question
the said Thomas Gardner was living upon his said allotment;
that shortly thereafter his wife died, and that he has not since
.lived thereon except at intervals .of two or three months at

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

a time, but for the most part has lived elsewhere with his
brother.
"That at the time of the said cutting the said Daniel Davids
had no house on his allotment and was only there at times
temporarily.
"It is stipulated in this case that if defendant is liable for
the value of the logs and timber at the time of taking or while
in his hands that the measure of damages therefor be the sum
of five hundred and sixty-six dollars and twenty-eight cents
($566.28), and that if it be liable for the value of said logs
and timber at the time of the cutting thereof or at the time
of the taking thereof by the defendant, less the additions in
value made thereto by the Indians in cutting, hauling, and
banking the same, then the measure of damages therefor
shall be the sum of three hundred and seventy-eight dollars
and fifty-nine cents ($378.59). The measure of damages in
both cases includes the cost of the scale and estimate thereof
made by the Government officials."
From these findings the conclusion of law was deduced:
"That the said Thomas Garciner and the said Daniel Davids,
as such allottees, had the right to cut and sell the timber on
their respective allotments for the purpose for which the same
was cut and sold, and that the defendant is entitled to judgment herein in its favor and against the plaintiff, dismissing
.the plaintiff's complaint .on the merits, but without costs."
The court expressed the reasons for its judgment in an
opinion of such circumstantial care and consideration that
makes unneces-sary an elaborate discussion by us. It stated
the primary issue to be "whether the Indian allottees under
the Stockbridge and Munsie treaty of 1856 (11 Stat. 663)
and the act of Congress of 1871 (16 Stat, 404) were vested
with sufficient title in their allotments to authorize the cutting of timber, for sale and not by way of improvements,
without the approval of the Department of the Interior."
And stating the purpose of the treaty and its provision, the
court said:

UNITED STATES v. PAINE LUMBER CO.
206 U. S.

471 .

Opinion of the Court.

"The Stockbridge and Munsie treaty of. 1856 was entered
into to provide for relocation of the remnant of the tribe in
Wisconsin, as they were unwilling to remove to a reservation
in Minnesota theretofore provided. It recites valuable. retrocessions and releases to the United States and reserves a tract
'near the south boundary of the Menominee Reservation'
of sufficient extent to furnish individual allotments. The
terms of the grant were substantially these: After survey into
the usual subdivisions the council of the tribes, under the
direction of the superintendent, shall 'make a fair, and just
allotment among the individuals and families of their tribes,'
in eighty-acre tracts to heads of families and other classes
named, and forty acres to others. The allottees 'may. take
immediate possession thereof, and the United States will
thenceforth and until the issuing of 'patents' hold the same
in trust for such persons;' certificates are to be issued 'se-*
curing to the holders their possession and an ultimate title
to the land;' but 'such certificates shall not be assignable,
and shall contain a clause expressly prohibiting the sale or
transfer by the holder' of such land. After ten years, upon,
application of the holder and consent of the council, 'and
when it shall appear prudent and for his or her welfare, the
President of the United States may direct that such restriction
on the power of sale -shall be withdrawn and a pateni issued
in the usual form.' In the event of the death of an allottee
without heirs, before patent, the allotment was not to revert
to the United States, but to the tribe for disposition by. the.
council. It is further declared (art. 11): 'The object of this
instrument being to advance the welfare and improvement
of said Indians, it is agreed, if it prove insufficient, from causes
that cannot now be foreseen, to effect these ends, -then the
President of the United States may, by and with the advice
and consent of the Senate, adopt such policy in the 'management of their affairs as in his judgment may be most beneficial to them; or Congress may, hereafter, make such provisions of law as experience shall prove necessary."

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

And another act should be mentioned, as it has induced a
concession by the plaintiff of the right of Gardner to cut the
timber upon his allotment. It is provided by the act of March 3,
1893 (27 Stat. 744) that all members of the tribe "who entered
into possession of lands under the allotments of eighteen hundred and fifty-six and of eighteen hundred and seventy-one,
and who by themselves or by their lawful heirs have resided
on said lands continuously since, are hereby declared to be
owners of such lands in fee simple, in severalty, and the Government shall issue patents to them therefor."
It is contended that Davids is not within the act of 1893,
and "that his title is only such as can be read out of the treaty
of 1856 and the act of 1871." Granting this to be so, it hardly
needs to be said that the allotments were intended to be of
some use and benefit to the Indians. And, it will be observed,
that on that use there is no restraint whatever. A restraint,
however, is deduced from the provision against alienation, the
supervision to which, it is asserted, the Indians are subject
and the character of their title. It is contended that the right
of the Indians is that of occupation only, and that the measure
of power over the timber on their allotments is expressed in
United States v. Cook, 19 Wall. 592. We do not regard that
case as controlling. The .ultimate conclusion of the court was
determined by the limitetl right which the Indians had in the
lands from which the timber there in controversy was cut.
Certain parties of the Oneida Indians ceded to the United
States all the lands set apart to them, "except a tract containing one hundred acres for each individual, o -in all about
65,000 acres, which they reserved to themselves, to be held
as other Indian lands are held. Some of the lands were held
in severalty by individuals of the tribe with the consent of
'te tribe, but the timber sued for was cut by a small number
of the tribe from a part of the reservation not occupied in
severalty. It was held, citing Johnson v. McIntosh, 8 Wheat.
574, that the right of the Indians in the land from which the
logs were taken was that of occupAncy only. Necessarily the

UNITED STATES v. PAINE LUMBER CO.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

timber when cut "became the property of the United States
absolutely, discharged of any rights of the Indians therein,"
It was hence concluded "the cutting was waste, and, in accordance with well-settled principles, the owner of the fee
may seize the timber cut, arrest it by replevin, or proceed in
trover for its conversion." If such were the title in the case
at bar, such would be the conclusions. But such is not the
title. We need not, however, exactly define it. It is certainly
more than a right of mere occupation. The restraint upon
alienation must not be exaggerated. It does not of itself
debase the right below a fee simple. Schly v. Clark, 118 U. S.
250. The title is held by the United States, it is true, but it
is held "in trust for individuals and their heirs to whom the
same were allotted." The considerations, therefore, which
determined the decision in United States v. Cook do not exist.
The land is not the land of the United States, and the timber
when cut did not become the property of the.United States.
And we cannot extend the restraint upon the alienation of
the land to a restraint upon the sale of the timber consistently
with a proper and beneficial use of the land by the Indians, a
use which can in no way affect any interest of the United States.
It was recognized in United States v. Clark that "in theory,
at least," that land might be "better and more valuable with
the timber off than with it on." Indeed, it may be said that
arable land is of no use until the timber is off, and it was of
arable land that the treaty contemplated the allotments would
be made. We encounter difficulties and baffling inquiries
when we concede a cutting for clearing the land for cultivation,
and deny it for other purpose. At what time shall we date the
preparation for cultivation and make the right to sell the
timber depend? Must the axe immediately precede the plow
and do no more than keep out of its way? And if that close
relation be not always maintained, may the purpose of an
allottee be questioned and referred to some advantage other
than the cultivation of the land, and his title or that of his
vendee to the timber be denied? Nor does the argument

OCTOBER TERM, 190.
206 U. S.

Syllabus.

which makes the occupation of the land a test of the title to
the timber seem to us more adequate to justify the qualification
of the Indians' rights.
It is based upon the necessity of superintending the weakness of the Indians and protecting them from imposition.
The argument proves too much. If the provision against
'alienation of the land be extended to timber cut for purposes
other than the cultivation of the land it would extend to timber
cut for the purpose of cultivation. What is there in the latter
purpose to protect from imposition that there is not in the
other? Shall we say such evil was contemplated and considered as counterbalanced by benefit? And what was the
benefit? The allotments, as we have said, were to be of arable
lands useless, may be, certainly improved by being clear of
their timber, and yet, it is insisted, that this improvement
may not be made, though it have the additional inducement
of providing means for the support of' the Indians and
their
families. We are unable to assent to this view.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE

MOODY

took no part in the decision of this case.

COPPER QUEEN CONSOLIDATED MINING COMPANY v.
TERRITORIAL BOARD OF EQUALIZATION OF THE
TERRITORY ° OF ARIZONA.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

SUPREME

COURT

OF

THE TERRITORY

OF

ARIZONA.
No. 280.

Argued April 26, 1907.-Decided May 27, 1907.

While this court cannot refuse to exercise its own judgment, it naturally will
lean toward the interpretation of a local statute adopted by the local court.
The reenactment of a statute in the same words carries With it the presumption that the legislature is satisfied with. the construction which it has
notoriously received from those whose duty it has been to carry it out;

