OCTOBER TERM, 190.
206 U. S.

Syllabus.

which makes the occupation of the land a test of the title to
the timber seem to us more adequate to justify the qualification
of the Indians' rights.
It is based upon the necessity of superintending the weakness of the Indians and protecting them from imposition.
The argument proves too much. If the provision against
'alienation of the land be extended to timber cut for purposes
other than the cultivation of the land it would extend to timber
cut for the purpose of cultivation. What is there in the latter
purpose to protect from imposition that there is not in the
other? Shall we say such evil was contemplated and considered as counterbalanced by benefit? And what was the
benefit? The allotments, as we have said, were to be of arable
lands useless, may be, certainly improved by being clear of
their timber, and yet, it is insisted, that this improvement
may not be made, though it have the additional inducement
of providing means for the support of' the Indians and
their
families. We are unable to assent to this view.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE

MOODY

took no part in the decision of this case.

COPPER QUEEN CONSOLIDATED MINING COMPANY v.
TERRITORIAL BOARD OF EQUALIZATION OF THE
TERRITORY ° OF ARIZONA.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

SUPREME

COURT

OF

THE TERRITORY

OF

ARIZONA.
No. 280.

Argued April 26, 1907.-Decided May 27, 1907.

While this court cannot refuse to exercise its own judgment, it naturally will
lean toward the interpretation of a local statute adopted by the local court.
The reenactment of a statute in the same words carries With it the presumption that the legislature is satisfied with. the construction which it has
notoriously received from those whose duty it has been to carry it out;

COPPER QUEEN' MINING CO. v. ARIZONA BOARD. 475
206 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

and this presumption is as strong as one that the enactors of the original
statute which was adopted verbatim from one of another State knew a
single decision of the courts of that State giving a different construction
to the statute.
The construction by the Supreme Court of Arizona of § 2282, Rev. Stat., of
that State sustained by this court as to the power of the Territorial Board
of Equalization to increase the total valuation of the property in the
Territory above the sum of the returns from the Board of Supervisors of
the several counties, and to change the valuations of particular classes of
property within the several counties.
.THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. William Herring, with whom Mrs. Sarah Herring Sorin
and Mr. Everett E. Ellinwood were on the brief, for appellant:
The Territorial Board of Equalization may, for the .purpose
of adjusting and equalizing, increase the aggregate value of
one county and decrease that of another, but it has no power
to increase the aggregate valuation of property in the Territory
above the valuations returned by' the Boards of Supervisors
of the several counties. it is wholly a creature of statute and
is of 'special and limited jurisdiction. It is essential to the
validity of its acts that they should be authorized by some
express provision of the statute, otherwise they are absolutely
null and void. Central Pacific R. R. Co. v. Evans, 111 Fed.
Rep. 79; 1 Cooley on Taxation, 3d ed., 772. See Rev. Stats.
Arizona, 1901, pars. 3877, 3880, 3879 as amended by Act
No. 23 Laws 1903, the same being reenacted verbatim from
pars. 2655, 2657, and 2658, Rev. Stats. Arizona, 1887. See
construction of Colorado statutes prior to the adoption.of
these statutes by Arizona. People ex rel. Crawford v. Lathrop,
3 Colorado, 428; People v. Amos, 26 Colorado, 83; S. C., 27
Colorado, 126.
A judicial interpretation given the statute in the State of
its origin, prior to the adoption thereof,, becomes a part of
the statute itself- with the same force and to the same extent
as though the decision was written into the law. Henrietta
M. & N. Co. v. Gardner, 173 U. S. 123; Goldman v. Sotelo,
7 Arizona, 23.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellee.

206 U. S.

On the adoption of a statute where the law antecedently
to the adoption was settled by judicial interpretation thereof,
the mere change of phraseology will not be construed a change
of the law unless such phraseology evidently purports an intention in the legislature to work a change. McDonald v.
Hovey, 110 U. S. 619; Metropolitan Railway. Co. v. Moore,
121 U. S. 558; Willis v. Eastern Trust & Banking Co., 169
U. S. 295.
The Territorial Board of Equalization in equalizing and
adjusting property valuations between the several counties
has no power to increase or diminish the valuations of certain
kinds, classes, sub-classes or grades of property within any
county. It must deal with the respective valuations as returned by the counties as entireties by making such changes
in each county valuation as a whole as will relatively equalize
the entire property values in the different counties. State
ex rel. Wallace v. State Board, 18 Montana, 473; State ex rel.
State Board v. Fortune, 24 Montana, 154; Poe v. Howell, 67
Pac. Rep. 62 (New Mexico) nisi prius; M., K. & T. Ry. Co. v.
Miami County Commissioners, 67 Kansas, 434; Chamberlainv.
Cleveland, 31 Ohio St. 51; County of San Mateo v. Southern
Pacific R. R. Co., 13 Fed. Rep. 722; County of Santa Clara v.
Southern Pacific R. R. Co., 18 Fed. Rep. 325.
Mr. Elias S. Clark and Mr. William C. Prentiss, with whom
Mr. Horace F. Clark was on the brief, for appellee:
It is clear, and admitted by the appellant, that the Board of
Equalization had the power to increase the aggregate valuation
of taxable property in Cochise County,. and in so doing had
the power to increase the valuation of the petitioner's property
in that county along. with all of the other taxable property
therein. So that, inasmuch as it is not contended that the
valuation of the petitioner's property was raised beyond or
even to its actual cash value, which is the statutory measure
of valuation for taxation, it would seem that there has not
been any injury done to the petitioner; but its whole contention

COPPER QUEEN MINING CO. v. ARIZONA BOARD. 477
206 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

is that, so far as the merits of the matter go, other classes of
property have not been equally increased, on the one hand,
and on the other, that the aggregate valuation of property
in some other county or counties has not been reduced in such
measure as not to disturb the aggregate valuations of property
in all the counties.
It would seem, therefore that the petitioner .has no substantial claim of injury and that the action of the appellees
ought not to be reviewed at its instance in certiorari proceedihgs.
In Arizona clear and adequate remedies in cases of alleged
illegal or erroneous tax assessments are provided by statute
and, therefore, certiorari will not lie.
Act 92 session laws of the Legislative Assembly of Arizona
of 1903, amending Chapter VII, Rev. Stat. 1901.
The Supreme Court of the United States will not disturb a
decision of the Supreme Court of a Territory construing a
local statute unless manifest error appear. Sweeney v. Lomme,
22 Wall. 208; Northern Pac. Ry. Co. v. Hambly, 154 U. S. 349;
Fox v. Haarstick, 156 U.. S. 674; Whitney V. Fox, 166 U. S. 637.
Tax laws are remedial and to be liberally construed to effect
their purpose of just distribution of the burdens of taxation.
Revenue laws are not to be regarded as penal in the sense
that requires them to be strictly construed, though they impose penalties and forfeitures. They have even been declared
remedial in character. Sutherland Stat. Construction, par. 535;
Wood. v. United States, 16 Pet. 342; Taylor v. United States,
3 How. 197; Cliquot's Champagne, 3 Wall. 114; In re Twentyeight cases, 2 Ben. 63; United Settes v. Willets, 5 Ben. 220;
United States v. Hodson, 10 Wall. 395, and many others.
Under the .power conferred on the board to equalize, and;
with the cash value as a standard, it may, as incidental to that
power, raise the sum of all the valuations as returned by
the various assessors and local boards of equalization. The
following authorities sustain this proposition": State ex rel.
Thompson v. Nichols, 69 Pac. Rep. 775; State ex rel. Cunningham v-. Thomas, 50 Pac. Rep. 615; Wallace et al. v. Bullen et

478

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

al., 52 Pac. Rep. 854; Kittle v. Shervin, 11 Nebraska, 66;
Renfrew et al. V. Webb et al., 54 Pac. Rep. 449; Burdrick et
al. v. Dillon et al., 54 Pac. Rep. 785; Weber et al. v. Dillon,
54 Pac. Rep. 894; Hacker v. Howe, 101 N. W. Rep. 256.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
THis is an appeal from a judgment on demurrer to a petition
for a writ of certiorari. The object of the petition was to vacate
proceedings of the Board of Equalization in 1905, by which
the Board added very largely to the assessed valuation of
patented mines and, in a less degree, of work horses and saddle
horses, in Cochise County and other counties in Arizona.
,It was alleged that by these proceedings the Board increased
the total valuation of property in the Territory and increased
the valuation of the petitioner's property of the above-mentioned kinds. The writ had been issued by a single justice
returnable before the full bench, but the case was heard on
the demurrer by consent, and by the judgment the demurrer
was sustained and the writ was quashed.
The errors alleged are two: first, that while the Board for
purposes of equalizing might add to the total value of the
property in one county and diminish that of property in
another, it had no power to increase the total valuation of
property in the Territory above the sum of the returns from
the Boards of Supervisors of the several counties; and second,
that the Board was bound to deal with the valuation of each
county as a whole, and could not increase or diminish the
valuations of particular classes of- property within a county.
The power of the Board depends, of course, upon statute, and
it is said that the statute of Arizona was taken almost verbatim
from one of Colorado, which had been construed by the Supreme Court of that State in accordance with the first of the
petitioner's above. contentions before it was adopted by Arizona. People v. Lothrop, 3 Colorado,.428. The construction,
it is said, goes with the act. Henrietta'Mining & Milling Co. v.

UUiePER QUEEN MINING CO. v. ARIZONA BOARD. 479
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Gardner, 173 U. S. 123, 130. The second contention is based
on an interpretation of the statutes, the supposed absence
of an express grant of power, and later decisions in Colorado
and other States.
On the other hand, while this court cannot refuse to exercise
its own judgment, it naturally will lean toward the interpretation of a local statute adopted by the local court. Sweeney v.
Lomme, 22 Wall. 208; Northern Pacific R. R. Co. v. Hambly,
154 U. S. 349, 361; Fox v. Haarstick, 156 U. S. 674, 679. And
again, when for a considerable time a statute notoriously
has received a construction in practice from those whose duty
it is to carry it out, and afterwards is reenacted in the same.
words, it may be presumed that the construction is satisfactory
to the legislature, unless plainly erroneous, since otherwise
naturally the words would have been changed. New York,
New Haven & Hartford R. R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 200 U. S. 361, 401, 402. The statute of Arizona was
reenacted in 1901 and was said by the Supreme Court to have
been 'construed by the Board against the petitioner's contention ever since the Board was created, eighteen years before.
Even apart from the reenactment a certain weight attaches
to this fact. United States v. Finnell, 185 U. S. 236, 243, 244.
United States v. Sweet, 189 U. S. 471. The presumption that
the codifiers of 1901 knew and approved the practice of the
Board certainly is as strong as the presumption that the original
enactors of the statute knew a single decision in another State;
and it is more important since it refers to a later time.
As an original question the construction adopted by the
Supreme Court appears to us at least as reasonable as the
opposite one contended for, and the variations, in the Arizona
act from the prototype, if Colorado furnished the prototype,
and the different background against which it was to be construed, seem to us to have warranted the refusal to be bound by
the Colorado case.
We give a section of the General Laws of Colorado, 1877,
and of the Revised Statutes of Arizona side by side.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

2282. Sec. 43. Said Board
shall ascertain whether the
valuation of real estate in
each county bears a fair relation or proportion to the
valuati6n in all other counties
of the State, and on such examination they may increase
or diminish the aggregate valuation of real estate in any
county, as much as in their
judgment may be necessary
to produce a just relation between all the valuations 'of
real estatd in the State; but
in no instance shall they reduce the aggregate valuation
of all the counties below the
aggregate valuation as returned ,by the clerks' of the
several counties.

206 U. S.

3880. (Sec. 50.) The said
board shall ascertain whether
the valuation of property in
each county bears a fair relation or proportion to the
valuation in all other counties
in the territory, and on such
examination' they may increase or diminish the valuation of property in any county,
as much as in their judgment
may be necessary to produce
a just relation between all the
valuations of property in the
territory; but in no instance
-shall they reduce the aggre.gate valuation of all the counties below the aggregate valuation as returned by the boards
of supervisors of the several
counties. And said board shall
at the same time fix the rate
of taxes for territorial purposes
which is to be levied and collected in each county.
For convenience' we take up the second of the alleged errors
first. It will be seen that the word "property" takes the place
of "real estate" at the beginning, and that the power given,
instead being only a power to increase or diminish the aggregate valuation of real estate in any county, is to increase or
diminish the valuation of property (not the property) in
(not of) any county. The word "aggregate" is left out, and
the fact that it was left out favors the, construction that. apart
from that fact would be reasonable, that the power extends
to the valuation of any property, and is not confined to the
valuation of all the property as one whole. This construction

COPPER QUEEN MINING CO. v. ARIZONA BOARD. 481
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

is further favored by the purpose of the changes in valuation,
which is to "produce a just relation between all the valuations
of property in the Territory." This phrase is interstitial in
its working. It does not confine the equality to the valuations
by county, but extends it to all the valuations of property.
Yet a further argument may be drawn from the language
of §3874: ".No assessor, board of supervisors, or the territorial board of equalization shall assess. any real estate at a
less valuation than seventy-five cents per acre." This recognizes the power of the Board to deal with a special class of
property, and we may add, by way of anticipation, by also
recogui'zing a function of. assessment, does much to make
inapplicable the reasoning of the Colorado decision upon the
other point.
It seems to have been argued below that at least the Board
was confined to dealing with property by the classes mentioned
in other sections of the statutes, especially §§ 3849, 3861, 3877.
But the classifications and specifications provided for in those
sections do not affect the power expressly given by § 3880
as we have construed the latter, and further, by § 3877 the
Territorial Board is given power in very broad terms to change
the list. It isnot necessary to rely on this power to change
the list for the power of the, Board to change valuations of a
particular class of property. It is mentioned simply to show
that the powers given by §3880 are not diminished by other
provisions.

The first contention, of the petitioner needs but a few words
in addition to what we have aid. The power to-increase the
valuation of property in any county is as power to increase
it in all, or, at least, to increase the valuation of some kinds
of property in all i so as to produce a just relation between them
and the other valuations leff undisturbed., We find nothing
inthe statute that requires the. increase -to be so adjusted that
the total valuation shiall- be. unchanged. On the contrary, the
prohibition against reducing it implies that the Board has the
pqwer of change and, but for the !prohibition, might reduce'
.voL ccv-31

482

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

206 U. S.

the total. Therefore it may add to the total since the law does
not forbid that., The Colorado decision to the contrary turned
partly on the notion, which has been shown to be inapplicable
to Arizona, that the Board of Equalization had no function
of assessment. It also turned in part at least on the constitution of the State, to whith, of course, the statute was subject.
'There was no Constitution to be conformed to in Arizona
and therefore the construction of-the statute depends on the
meaning of the words alone, and the Supreme Court of the
Territory in construing them was left at large.
Judgment a/firmed.

IOWA RAILROAD LAND COMPANY v. BLUMER.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
No. 207.

Argued February 26, 27, 1907.-Decided May 27, 1907.

Under the act of Conigress of May 15, 1856, 11 Stat. 9, and the act of the
legislature of Iowa of July 14, 1856, the grant to the Dubuque & Pacific
Railroad Co. was in prwsenti arid the title passed from the United States

and vested in the State of Iowa when. the map of definite' location was
lodged in the General, Land Office, and the right of the company then
attached.

Iowa Falls Land Co. v. Griffey, 143 U. S. 32.

Where a grant is in pr(8sentiand nothing remains to be done for the administration of the grant in the Land Office, and the conditions have been cornplied with and,the grant fully earned, the company has such a title, notwithstanding the want of final: certificate and the issue of the patent,'as
will enable it to maintain ejectment against one wrongfully on the lands,
and prescription will run in favor of one in adverse possession under color
of title.

Deseret Salt Co. v. Tarpey, 142 U. S. 421; Toltec Ranch Co. v.

Cook, 191 U. S.532..
Although one who in good faith enters and occupies lands within the place
limits of a railway grant in prasenti may not obtain any adverse title
against the Government, if, as in this case, his possession is open, notorious,
continuous 'and adverse, it may; if the railway company fails to assert its
rights, ripen-into full title as against the latter, notwithstanding the entry
in the Land Office was cancelled without'notice as having been improperly
made and allowfd,

