YATES v. UTICA BANK.
206 U. S.

Syllabus.

an action to enforce the civil liability of directors,, and that
such action could only be brought in the courts of the United
States after a forfeiture has been adjudged. We content ourselves with saying that we think these contentions are without
merit.
It follows from what has been said that, as to Mosher and
Outcalt, two of the persons named as plaintiffs in error in the
writ and citation, the writ of error is dismissed for want of
prosecution; as to the other plaintiffs in -error, the judgment
below is reversed and the case is remanded for further proceedings not. inconsistent with this opinion.

YATES v. UTICA BANK.
SAME v. BAILEY.
SAME v. 'BANK OF STAPLEHURST.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.

Nos. 231, 232, 233.

Argued March 8, 11, 1907.-Decided May 13, 1907.

Yates v. Jones National Bank, ante, p. 158, followed; and held further.
That a judgment was rendered upon demurrer does not affect its cogency
if it is otherwise. efficacious to bring into play the presumption of the
thing adjudged.
A judgment of dismissal based on the ground that plaintiff in an action
against the directors of. a national bank had not set up any individual
wrong suffered by him but solely an injury sustained in common with
all other creditors of the bank, is not res adjudicata of a right of action

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

between the same parties to recover for individual loss suffered as distinct
fiom the right of the bank.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Halleck F. Rose and Mr. J. W. Deweese, with whom
Mr. Frank E. Bishop was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.'
Mr. Lionel C. Burr and Mr. John J. Thomas, with whom
Mr. Charles L. Burr, Mr. Richard S. Norvall and Mr. William B. C. Brown were on the brief; for defendants in error.'
MR. JUSTICE

WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

These are the actions referred to- in the opinion just announced in No. 230, Yates v. Jones National Bank, as companion actions with that case and as having been tried with it.
The issues raised below and the questions of law which here
arise for decision, are, therefore, the same as in No. 230, and the
reasons given in the opinion in that case require a reversal of
the judgments in these.
In the Bailey case (No. 232), however, there is a question not
presented in the others, which, if determined in favor of the
plaintiffs in error in that case, will finally settle that particular
controversy. Referring, therefore, to the opinion in the Jones
National Bank case for the general grounds of reversal in the
three cases, we come to consider the particular ground which
is additionally relied upon in the Bailey case as establishing that
the decree of reversal in that case should be made conclusive
of the entire controversy.
By a "second defense," the defendants pleaded as res adjudicata a judgment asserted' to have been rendered in their
favor in an action brought by the same plaintiff in Lancaster
County, Nebraska, which was removed into the Circuit Court
1 For abstracts of arguments see ante, p. 158.

YATES v. UTICA BANK.
206 U. S.

Qpiiiion of the Court.

of -the United States where, upon the.sustaining of a demurrer
to the petition, a judgment of dismissal was entered which Wasby the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed. 63 Fed. Rep. 488.
Despite the introduction in evidence of the judgment roll
in the case just referred to, which for convenience we term the
Lancaster County action, the jury in this case,-over the objection and exception of the defendants, were in effect instructed
that the judgment in the former action did not operate as a bar
t6 a recovery in the present case. Each defendant, in -a notion
for a new trial, alleged the commission of error by the court
in "failing to give full faith and credit" to. the judgment of
the Circuit Court of Appeals in the Lancaster County action.
The Supreme Court of Nebraska considered the subject, and
as its conclusion was that the judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals was not res adjudicata of the issues in this cause it
therefore decided that in refusing to give effect of res adjudicata to such judgment, the trial court had not wrongfully
denied the validity of an authority exercised under the United
States. The correctness of this conclusion is the particular
question to be considered whiclr as we have said distinguishes
this case from the others.
Whilst the court below found that the Lancaster County
action was between the same parties and in its opinion was
based substantially upon the same facts as in the present action,
it based its ruling denying the effect of res adjudicata to the
prior judgment upon the conclusion that taking into view
both the pleadings and the opinion in the previous action it
must be considered as certain that the case involved a different
cause of action from the one presented here. In so concluding
we think the court was right.
The judgment relied upon was rendered upon a demurrer,
This fact, however, does not affect the cogency of the judgment
if otherwise efficacious to bring into play the presumption of
the thing adjudged. Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Slaght, 205
U. S. 122, 133, and authorities there cited. To determine
whether the judgment in the former ease was conclusive in

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

this, in view of its uncertainty, we must address ourselves to
the pleadings in that case and consider the opinion of the court
for the purpose of ascertaining precisely what was concluded
by the judgment upon the demurrer. Nat. F'dry &c. v. Oconto
Water Supply Co., 183 U. S. 216, 234, and cases cited. Coming
to do so, we find that the demurrer was sustained on the
ground that no cause of action in favor of the plaintiff was
stated in the petition, because the Circuit Court of Appeals
was of the opinion that the petition only stated a right, to recover for violations of the national bank act, causing damage
to the bank as such, the right to recover for which was an asset
of the bank, enforceable only by its receiver. In so deciding
the court expressly held that the averments in the petition
relative to the fraud and deceit claimed to have been practiced
upon the plaintiff through reports to the Comptroller of the
Currency were mere matter of inducement or surplusage and
did not constitute averments of a substantive cause of action.
In other words, the previous case was decided exclusively upon
the ground that as the plaintiff had not set up any individual
wrong suffered by him, but solely an injury sustained in common with all other creditors of the bank, the resulting damage
was only recoverable by the receiver. As adopting the construction given in the Jones National Bank case to a petition
like unto the one in this case, we hold that the petition in this
case sets up a right to recover for the individual loss suffered
as distinct from the right of the bank, it follows, if we accept
the construction given by the Circuit Court of Appeals to the
pleadings in. the case wherein the judgment relied upon was
rendered, that case and this involve different causes of action.
But it is insisted that if a correct analysis be made of the facts
set out in the previous case the result will be to demonstrate
that that case and this are identical, and,. therefore, the judgment in the previous case is controlling here. This, however,
is but to assert that the previous judgment was wrong, and,
therefore, in determining its effect as res adjudicata we must
treat it as embracing matters which it did not include. To

STEWART v. UNITED STATES.
206 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

give full force-and effect to the judgment we must necessarily
exclude those things which the judgment excluded. To hold
to the contrary would be to decide that the former judgment
must be accepted as correct, and yet it must be extended to
controversies which are beyond its reach, because the judgment was wrongfully rendered..
The same judgment must therefore be ordered in each of
these cases as was directed to be entered in the Jones National
Bank case, viz., as to Mosher and Outcalt, two of the persons
named as plaintiffs in the writ of error and citation, the writ
of error in each action is dismissed for want of prosecution;
as to the other, plaintiffs in error, the judgment below in each
action is reversed and the case is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

STEWART v. UNITED STATES AND THE OSAGE
NATION.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 256. Argued April 12, 1907.-Decided May 13. 1907.

Under the Osage Indian treaty of September 29, 1865 and §§ 2237-2241,
Rev. Stat., a register of the United States Land Office is not entitled to
any additional compensation beyond the maximum of $2,500 per annum
for services in connection with sales of land provided for by treaty.
Section 13 of the Act of Congress of May 3, 1903, 32 Stat. 1010, permitting
registers and receivers to bring suit in the Court of Claims for commissions
and compensation for sales of Osage Indian lands simply provided for presentation of the claims and for a decision on the merits without any admission that any sum was due or assumption that the claims were meritorious.
39 C. Cl. 321, affirmed.

THE appellant herein filed his petition in the Court of Claims
to obtain compensation for services *performed by him. while
a register of the United States land office at Humboldt, in

