OCTOBER TERM, 1906,
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

LOVE v. FLAHIVE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MONTANA.
No. 236.

Submitted March 8, 1907.-Decided May 27, 1907.

Petition for rehearing in Love v. Flahive, 205 U. S. 195, denied.
A sale made by a party who is in possession ef a tract of public land with
an intent -thereafter to enter it as a homestead is equivalent to a relinquishment of thd right to enter, and the Department may properly treat
the party making the sale as having no further claims upon the land.
He may iot sell and still have the rights of one who has not sold; nor
does he by.merely continuing in possession create a new right of entry
against the party in whose favor he relinquished his right.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Thomas C. Bach, for petitioner.
Mr. S: M. Stockslager and Mr. George C. Heard, opposing.
MR.

JUSTICE BREWER

delivered the opinion of the court.

A petition for rehearing calls our attention to a misstatement
in the opinion. We said that "it appears from the complaint
and exhibits that during the time that these proceedings were
pending in the Land Department, Love made a sale to James
Rundell," etc. , The facts are that in May, 1882, Love settled
upon and occupied the tract in controversy with the purpose of
entering it as a homestead; that the land was then unsurveyed
public land; that it was not surveyed until 1888, and that on
January 2,1889, plaintiff for the first time filed in the Land
Office an application for an entry. It further appears that the
sale to Rundell was made in September, 1883, after the original
settlement by the plaintiff, while the land was unsurveyed and
before the application to enter. Hence it is not strictly true
that while "proceedings were pending in the Land Department,

LOVE v. FLAHIVE.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Love made a sale," for there was nothing of record or on file in
that Department until after the entry.
Now the plaintiff contends that conceding that there was a
sale and that thereby the plaintiff relinquished the right of
entry which he had acquired by his settlement, yet thereafter
without having abandoned the possession he filed his application in the land office; that that application must be considered
as an entirely new proceeding initiated by one in actual possession , desiring to take the land as a homestead, and that it is
error, and error of law, to adjudge it vitiated. or affected by
the prior sale.
Conceding-that the effect of a sale prior to the application
*projects into the case a question of law, we are still of opinion
that the decision of the Secretary was right, and that theaward
of the patent to Mrs. Flahive must be sustained. -A sale made
by a party who is in possession of a tract of public land with an
intent thereafter to enter it as a homestead is equivalent to a
relinquishment of his right to enter, and the Department may
properly treat him as having no further claims upon. the land.
He may not sell and still .have the rights of one who has not
sold. He does not by merely continuing in possession create a
new .right of entry as against the party in whose favor he has
relinquished his right.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the sale in 1883 was rightfully held by the Department to estop the plaintiff from subsequent entry of the land, at least as against one who was a
purchaser from' his vendee.
The petition for rehearing is
Denied,

