OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

SMITH, RECEIVER, v. JENNINGS, TREASURER OF THE
STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH
CAROLINA.
No. 104.

Argued April 24, 25, 1907.-Decided May 13, 1907.

Whether the proceedings in the enactment of a state statute conform with
the state constitution is to be determined by the state court and its judgment is final.

A state statute directing the state treasurer to write certain bonds off the
books in his office and no longer to carry them as a debt df the State does
not impair any existing obligation of the State to pay the bonds nor affect
the remedy to recover upon them; and where 'the state court has so construed the act, in refusing to enjoin the treasurer from making th e entries
required thereby, at the suit'of one claiming 'to own the bonds, no Federal
right of the plaintiff is denied, obstructed, impaired or affected and the

writ of error will be dismissed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. T. W. Bacot, with whom Mr. A. M. Lee and Mr. Julian
Mitchell, Jr., were on'the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Charles A. Douglas, with whom Mr. E. B. Sherrill was
on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR.

JUSTICE MOODY

delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error is the receiver of a state bank of South
Carolina, which has been many years in liquidation. The
defendant in error is the treasurer of the State of South Carolina. The receiver brought in the Supreme Court of the State
a petition for an injunction to restrain the Treasurer from
obeying the requirements of an act (presently to be stated)
of the legislature of the State. The Supreme Court of the State
dismissed the petition, and the case is here on writ of error.

SMITH v. JENNINGS.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court

The State of South Carolina issued, in 1859, bonds due in
twenty years in .aid of the 'Blue Ridge Railroad Company.
The bank came to be the owner of one hundred of these bonds,
each of the par value of one thousand dollars. In -1865 the
assets of the bank, including the hundred bonds, were seized
and carried away by soldiers of the Federal Army. Sixtythree of the bonds have been recovered by the bank from time
to time. and have been -paid.or funded by the- State. Thirtyseven of the bonds are still outstanding,. and nothing is known
of them. In 1896 the general assembly of the State passed an
act directing that no coupon bond of the State payable to
bearer should be funded or paid'by the state treasurer after
the expiration of twenty years from the date of maturity. In
1903 the general assembly passed the following act:
"A Joint Resolution to authorize and require the State Treasurer
to write off the books in his o ce certain bonds entered :on
said books as Old Bonds, not Fundable (Act of 1896), Blue
Ridge Railroad Bonds, $37,000.
"Be it resolved by the General Assembly of the State of,
South Carolina:
"SEcrIoN 1. That whereas, by the Act of the Legislature

.of 1896, the Treasurer of this State is forbidden to pay, consolidate or fund any coupon bond of the State after the expiration of twenty years from the date of maturit of such bonds,
and certain bonds entered on the books of the State treasurer
as 'Old bonds not fundable, act of 1896, Blue Ridge Railroad
Bonds, $37,000,' are still carried on the books of the State
treasurer. Therefore, be it resolved: That the State treasurer
be, and he is hereby, authorized and required to write said
bonds off of the books in his office, and no longer carry said
bonds on the books as a debt of the State."
Thereupon the receiver brought this petition alleging that
the act last stated, if valid, impaired the obligation of the contract made by the bonds, and that the act was not passed in
conformity with the constitution of the State, and was, therefore, void. The prayer of the petition was that the respondent

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

206 U. S.

be restrained by injunction "from writing the said $37,000 of
the state bonds off the books in his office, and no longer carrying said bonds on the books as a debt of the State." The
Supreme Court of the State decided against both these contentions, and they are brought here as Federal questions. But
the conformity with the state constitution of the proceedings
in the enactment of the law is a question for the determination
of the state court, and its judgment is final. Burt v. Smith,
203 U. S. 129, 135; Haire v. Rice, 204 U. S.291. Nor did the
law complained of impair the obligation of the State to pay the
bonds therein mentioned, or the remedy to recover upon them.
The obligation, and the remedy remained precisely the same
after the enactment of the law as before. Neither one was in
the slightest degree diminished or affected. The law merely
directed a change of entries in the books of the state treasurer,
and could by no possibility, in any respect whatever,* deny,
obstruct, impair or affect the rights of the plaintiff in error.
This was the view expressed by the court below, and the
statute thus interpreted raises no Federal question.
Writ oj error dismissed.

WYOMING ex rel. WYOMING AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE
v. IRVINE, TREASURER OF THE STATE OF WYOMING.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME
No. 272.

COURT OF THE STATE OF WYOMING.

Argued April 19, 22, 1907.-Decided May 13, 1907.

The land grants made for establishment of agricultural colleges by the act
of July 2, 1862, 12 Stat. 503, as amended by the act of March 3, 1883,
22 Stat. 484, and the permanent appropriations for the support of such
institutions under the act of August 30, 1890, 26 Stat. 415, were made
to the States themselves, and not to any of the institutions established
by the States, Haire v. Rice, 204 U. S. 291, and the disposition of the
interest on the land grant fund and the appropriation is wholly within
the power of each State acting through its legislature in accordance with

