482

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

206 U. S.

the total. Therefore it may add to the total since the law does
not forbid that., The Colorado decision to the contrary turned
partly on the notion, which has been shown to be inapplicable
to Arizona, that the Board of Equalization had no function
of assessment. It also turned in part at least on the constitution of the State, to whith, of course, the statute was subject.
'There was no Constitution to be conformed to in Arizona
and therefore the construction of-the statute depends on the
meaning of the words alone, and the Supreme Court of the
Territory in construing them was left at large.
Judgment a/firmed.

IOWA RAILROAD LAND COMPANY v. BLUMER.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
No. 207.

Argued February 26, 27, 1907.-Decided May 27, 1907.

Under the act of Conigress of May 15, 1856, 11 Stat. 9, and the act of the
legislature of Iowa of July 14, 1856, the grant to the Dubuque & Pacific
Railroad Co. was in prwsenti arid the title passed from the United States

and vested in the State of Iowa when. the map of definite' location was
lodged in the General, Land Office, and the right of the company then
attached.

Iowa Falls Land Co. v. Griffey, 143 U. S. 32.

Where a grant is in pr(8sentiand nothing remains to be done for the administration of the grant in the Land Office, and the conditions have been cornplied with and,the grant fully earned, the company has such a title, notwithstanding the want of final: certificate and the issue of the patent,'as
will enable it to maintain ejectment against one wrongfully on the lands,
and prescription will run in favor of one in adverse possession under color
of title.

Deseret Salt Co. v. Tarpey, 142 U. S. 421; Toltec Ranch Co. v.

Cook, 191 U. S.532..
Although one who in good faith enters and occupies lands within the place
limits of a railway grant in prasenti may not obtain any adverse title
against the Government, if, as in this case, his possession is open, notorious,
continuous 'and adverse, it may; if the railway company fails to assert its
rights, ripen-into full title as against the latter, notwithstanding the entry
in the Land Office was cancelled without'notice as having been improperly
made and allowfd,

IOWA RAILROAD -LAND CO. v. BLUMER.
206 U.S..

Statement of the Case.

THis is, a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of

Iowa, seeking reversal of its judgment affirming the' decree
of the District Court of Woodbury County, quieting the land
title of Claude F. Blumer, defendant in error,- as: against the
Iowa. Railroad Land Company, plaintiff in error. 129 Iowa,
32. The record 'discloses that Blumer brought his action.by a
petition in equity under the Iowa Code, claiming . tobe owner
in fee simple of forty acres of land' in Woodbury County, Iowa,:
being the N. E. J of the N. E. I of section 1, ,township 89 north,
range 46 West, containing 'about forty acres; ayerring that
the plaintiff and his immediate grantor had been in.open4,
notorious, continuous and adverse possession for more than
ten years under' a claim of title and that the plaintiff was then
•in the possession of the same; and that defendant'made some
"claim to the said. estate, and prayed that he be quieted in his.
title and that defendant be estopped from setting up any
claim adverse to his .own.
.Defendant answered and set up general denials and that the
defendant was. the owner of the premises by virtue of an
act of Congress of May 15, 1856,. making a -grant of lands to
the,"State of Iowa in alternate sections, in aid of the construc'tion of certain railways in that State; whereby the lands were
granted .to the 'State of Iowa in trust for the railway companies;:that the act. and trust- were' duly accepted by the State
of. Iowa, by act of its legislature, approVed July 14, 1856;
that'thereafter, by the act of 'April 7, 1868, of the- same state
legislature, the' Iowa Falls & Sioux City Railroad Company
was designated to. construct and conpete the portion of the'
railroad west Of Iowa Falls, and 'the State granted, on conditions contained in said act,. the tinearned portions of Said,
lands west of Iowa Falls to the said Iowa Falls. & Sioux City
Railroad Company, 'and that all the terms of the act had been
complied with and that .the same were rightfully subject to
the certification and con-Veyance'to the said railway company;
which was. the grantor of the -defendant.
A reply and amendment were filed, and also a supplemental

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

206 U. S.

answer setting forth that the lands on the twenty-fourth of January, 1903, since the former answer in the case, had been duly
certified to the State of Iowa in trust for the Iowa Falls and
Sioux City Railroad Company, and had been subsequently
patented to the railroad company by the Governor of the State.
on February 2, 1903, and that all the rights and title of the
railway company had been succeeded to by the defendant,
•the Iowa Railroad Land Company, and prayed to be quieted
in its title as against the plaintiff. By an amended reply the
plaintiff reiterated that for more than ten years prior to the
commencement of the suit, plaintiff and his immediate grantor
had been in open, notorious, continuous and adverse possession of the premises under a claim of right and color of title,
and that plaintiff was then in possession of the same.
The lands in question are within the place limits of the grant
to the State of Iowa by the act of May 15, 1856. 11 Stat. 9.
By the act of the legislature of Iowa, passed July 14, 1856,
'the lands were granted to the Dubuque & Pacific Railroad
Company. The map of defii.'te location of the line of the road
was filed in the office of the Commissioner of the General Land
Office of the United' States on-October 11, 1856, and accepted
on October 13, 1856.
The legislature of Iowa, on April 7, 1868, passed a statute
(Iowa Laws, 1868, chap. 124, pp. 164-167), designating the
Iowa Falls & Sioux City Railroad Company (grantor ,of the
plaintiff in error) to construct and complete the uncompleted
portion of .the road west of Iowa Falls. Sec. 1 of the act legalized and confirmed the contract between the Dubuque and
Sioux City Railroad.• Company and the Iowa Falls & Sioux
City Railroad Company "transferring so much of the Dubuque and Sioux City [successor of the Dubuque and Pacific]
:Railroad as remains to be constructed, together with the
franchises, right .of way, depot grounds, and other appurtenances of said ioad to be 'completed, also transferring all
right and title of the said -Dubuque and Sioux City Railroad
"Company to so'much of the lands granted by Congress to aid

IOWA RAILROAD LAND CO. v. BLUMER.
206 U. S.

Statement of the.Case.

in the construction of said road as shall appertain to, or be
legally applicable to the construction of the uncompleted
part of the Dubuque and Sioux City Railroad, as aforesaid,
except as to the lands hereinafter granted to' the Dubuque,
Bellevue and Sabula Railroad Company." Sec. 4 of that act
provides: ''That so much of land grant as is applicable to the
uncompleted portion of the ;road aforesaid, west- of Iowa
Falls

is hereby conferred upon the said Iowa Falls &

Sioux City Railroad Company, subject to the terms and
conditions'of the act of Congress granting the said lands,
dated the 15th day of May, A. D. 1856, and the act amendatory
thereto and the act of Congress. passed the present session"
(subject to certain conditions as to the time and manner of
construction).
The railroad company complied with this act as to the completion ofd the road, having done so -by January 1,. 1872, also
complying with the act of' Congress of March 2, 1868, 15 Stat.
38, requiring the completion of the road by that date. The
'tract of land in controversy was again selected and designated
by the Iowa Falls &Sioux City Railroad Company, on June, 19i
1884, and on April 24, 1885, as -ands to which the company
was entitled under said land grants, and said last named selection was accepted by the register and receiver, and crtified'
to the Commissioner of the General Land Office at Washington, May 13, 1885.
.In December,. 1858, the larids were listed for the benefit of
,the Dubuque & Pacific (since Iowa Falls & Sioux City) grant
under the act of May 15, 1856, but after-wards, on February 21.,
1859, the tract was included in a selection of the State of Iowa
under the Swamp Land Grant. Under the order, of the Secretary of the Interior the lands were stricken from the . certified
list' with a view of determining the claim of the State under
the Swamp Land Grant,. which claim was finally rejected on
Febriuary 16, 1878.The lands were ;certified pending the suit, January. 20,,1903,
and .on -February 2; 1903, the lands were patented by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

206 U. S.

Governor of Iowa to the Iowa Falls & Sioux City Pailroad
Company.
On October 2, 1883, John Carraher (predecessor in title
of the defendant in error) made application to the local land
office at. Des Moines, Iowa, to enter the lands under the Timber Culture Act, 20 Stat. 113. His application was rejected
and Carraher appealed. The rejection was because of cbnflict
with -the railroad grant. On December 3, 1883, the Commissioner affirmed this action. Carraher 'appealed to the Secretary of the.Interior. Afterwards, July 17, 1891, the Secretary
approved the decisions and rejected the claim of Carraher.
Pending his appeal, on May 31, 1888, Carraher made another
.timber culture entry (No. 607). When the Secretary's decision
of June 17, 1891, finally rejecting the first application of Carraher Was promulgated by the. Commissioner (July 11, 1891),
it 'was also directed that the second timber culture entry (of
May 31, 1888), be cancelled on the ground that it had been'
allowed without authority.
The delay in certifying the lands after the final decision
against Cairaher is thus 'accounted for by Mr. Samuel S.
Burdett, at one time Commissioner-of the General Land Office,'
and attorney for the plaintiff in error from June, 1888:
"On July 15, 1891, my firm. advised the Iowa Railroad Land
Company of the Commissioner's action of July 11, 1891, in
which the Carraher entry had been cancelled and received
in reply the letter thereto attached' and marked 'Exhibit
B' from. P. E. Hall, president, dated July.28, 1801, in which
he asked that ye 'take. such steps as will) result in the tract
in question being certified.to the State for our benefit.'
"Thereafter, by personal, application 'by myself and other
members of my firm,. effort was made to secure the due certification of. the land under ,the grant, -resulting in a promise
from .the proper officials of the' General Land Office, given on'
or about' October 1, .1891, that the tract would be included
in a patent which was then about to be prepared. .
The duty of certifying the tract rested' with the proper

IOWA RAILROAD LAND CO. v. BLUMER.
206 U.S.

Statement of the Case.

officials of the General Land Office, and wasin fact a mere
clerical duty. No rule required the filing 'of an application
in writing for, the certification of lands. embraced in a pending
selection, and the practice of my firm in such matters was to
urge, by personal request, the- proper officials of the General
Land Office to take up 'such lists and prepare the necessary
certificate for the action of the Commissioner and Secretary.
This was-what was done.with respect to the tract in question
here, and our requests in the matter resulted in the promise
that the land would be included in a patent, such as set out
in my.firm's letter of that date, to P. E. Hall, president,
Exhibit 'C.' In the multitude of business *transacted by my
firm in the years succeeding the action referred to, it-is imp~ssible for me [to] recollect the 7details of this particular matter,
nor do I recollect the circumstances under which the.promise
referred to in said letter was given, but that it was made to
me or to some member of my firm, as a result of urgent:requests for proper action, is certain, or the said letter of my
firm, of Octdber' 1, 1891, Exhibit 'C,' would not have been
written. It was the practice of my firm, in all matters in our
hands, from time to time, to call them up by personal application, with a view to. securihg action. When the, certification
finally issued on January 22, 1903, it was in response to a
personal and urgent request from my firm.
"I know of no delay whatever caused by either the Iowa
Railroad. Land Company or its predecessors in interest, or
by any of its agents*or attorneys, and certainly none 'by myself'
or my firm in securing the final issuance of title by the United
States to the tract of land in question. The delay in certifyingthe said land,. after the Secretary's 'action of. July 17, 1891,
was wholly due to the want of action by the General Land
Office, the company and .its' agents having performed every
"duty in timely manner required by the rules of the Department.
,"The first cause of delay in final certification of said tract
under the aforesaid railroad grant of May 15, 1856, was the
selection by the State of Iowa, under the Swamp Land Grant

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

206 U. S.

of 1850, which was filed February 21, 1859, and embraced
said tract, which selection was not finally disposed of by the
Land Department until 1878.
"The next cause of delay was the appeal of John Carraher
from the decision of the Commissioner of the General Land
Office, dated December 3, 1883, to make entry of said tract
under the provision of the timber culture law. Delay was next
caused by the loss of Carraher's application papers in the
'General Land Office, which is mentioned in the letter of the
Commissioner to Mr. Van Deventer, dated September 6,
1887, Doe. No. 1, of this deposition, and in that of the Commissioner -to Geo. W. Wakefield, Esq., Doe. No. 4, of this
deposition. The next cause of delay appears to have grown
out of the contention made in behalf of Carraher in support
of his appeal, that the railroad grant had been fully satisfied,
and that this tract was not needed to fill up the quota of lands
due under the grant. This made necessary the adjustment
of the grant which took place on April 9, 1891, as already
detailed.
"Thereafter the Secretary disposed of Carraher's appeal
on June 17, 1891. The delay in certifying the land under
grant which subsequently ensued, occurred in the General
Land Office. As to the causes of this last deldy, I have no
certain knowledge, but I can state it as a fact, that between
the date of the Secretary's final decision on the Carraher application, down to a very recent date, the railroad division
of the General Land Office has been overburdened with work
consequent upon the duty of adjusting all of the railroad land
grants made by Congress in aid of railroads, which was cast
upon the Land Department by the provisions of the act of
March 3, 1887, 24 S~ts. at Large, p. 556. For the most of
the time during that period the force :of clerks in that division
was insufficient to promptly perform the necessary labor.
attendant upon'such adjustments and the conveyance of lands
under the grants. The delay in certifying the tract in question
may have been due to these conditions."

IOWA RAILROAD LAND CO. v. BLUMER.
206 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Mr. Charles A. Clark for plaintiff in error:
The claims of plaintiff in error, specially set up and pleaded,
of title to the land under a grant and certification, the equivalent of a patent from the United States, has been denied by
the court below. Also its like claim that title by prescription
could not be acquired against it while certification, was refused
under the railroad grant and while the title remained in the
United States. These present Federal questions.
Carraher's claim under the timber culture entry was not a
claim to title in fee which alone can furnish the basis for title
by prescription. Ricard v. Williams, 7 Wheat. 59.
Nor can a prescriptive title arise with no, claim of right.
Harvey v. Tyler, 2 Wall. 328; Society for Prop. of Gosp. v.
Town of Paulot, 4 Pet. 480.
A claim under a sheriff's deed void for want of jurisdiction
will not support title by prescription. Walker v. Turner, 9
Wheat. 541.
There can be no color of title in an occupant of land who
does not hold under an instrument or proceeding or law purporting to transfer the title or to give the right of possession.
Nor can good faith be affirmed of a party in holding ad,versely where he knows he has no title and that under the law
he can acquire none. Deffeback v. Jawke, 115 U. S. 392, 407;
Sparks v. Pierce,' 115 U. S. 412; Litchfield v. Sewell, 97 Iowa,
251; Hayes v. United States, 175 U. S. 260.,
Under the statute of limitations of Iowa relating to lands, title
by pr~scription cannot be acquired in the absence of an honest,
bona fide, good faith claim of title. LItchfield v. Sewell, 97
Iowa, 260; Wright v.'Xeithler, 71Iowa, 92; Smith v. Young,
89 Iowa, 340; Clark V. Sexton, 122 Iowa, 313; Snell v. Mecham,
80 Iowa, 55.
'No such good faith is shown on Carraher's part. The facts
to which attention has been called, supra, conclusively show
bad faith on his part.,
Courts' cannot interfere while title is withheld by Land
Department, in administration of the grant. Humbird v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

206 U. S.

Avery, 195 U. S. 498, and cases cited; Oregon v. Hitchcock,
202 U. S. 70.
The statute of limitations cannot run or title by prescription
have its inception ,while the Land Department withholds the
title in the administration of the grant. Gibson v. Choteau,
131 Wall. 92; Redfield v. Parks, 132 U. S. 246, and cases there
cited; Morrow v. Whitney, 95 U. S. 557; North Pac. Ry. Co. v.
Traill Co., 115 U. S. 600; Railway Co. v. Prescott, 16 Wall. 603;
Railway Co. v. McShane, 22 Wall. 444; Churchill v. Sowards,
78 Iowa, 473; Durham v. Hoosman, 88 Iowa, 36; Dickerson v.
Yetzer, 53 Iowa, 681; Grant

'.

Railway Co., 54 Iowa, 673;

United States v. MontanaMfg. Co., 196 U. S. 577.
Cancellation. of timber culture , entry cannot be collaterally
assailed. Brown v. Gurney, 201 U. S. 193; Steele v. Smelting Co.,
106 U. S. 447; Smelting Co. v. Kemp, 104 U. S; 636.
Mr. Constant R. Marks and Mr. Henry C. Gardiner,for defendant in error, submitted:
The grant under which the defendant claimed titleih this
case was a grant in prwsenti, under which: title passed from the
Government to the railroad company upon the filing of the map
of definite location, as was done in this case on October '13,
1856. C., R. I. & P. Ry. Co. v. Grinnell, 51 Iowa, 476; Sioux
City &c. Co., v. Griffy, 72 Iowa, 505; S. C., 143 U. S. 32;
B. & M. R. R. Co. v. Lawson, 58 Iowa, 145; Iowa Falls & S.
C. Ry. Co. v. Beck, 67 Iowa, 421; C., B. &-Q. R. Co. v. Lewis,
53, Iowa, 101; Courtright v. Railway Co., 35 Iowa, 386.
One can hold in subservience to the Government, invoking
the aid of its Land Department and then, when. the railroad
company obtains title, use that holding as' an honest claim of
right in sustaihing adverse possession against the railroad
company. C6le v. Railroad Co., 76 Iowa, 185.
One can obtain color of title and enter into possession while
the title is in the Government,. and when the title passes to
the railroad company hold adversely against the latter until
the statute has run, under the same color of title and posses-

.. IOWA RAILROAD LAND CO. v. BLUMER.4
206 U. S.

401'

Opinion of the Court.

sion. Railroad Co. V. Allfree, 64 Iowa, 500; Sater v. Meadows,
68 Iowa, 507.
As a general rule of all courts of last resort, the Statute of
Limitations will begin to run against one claiming title from
the Government. from the date of his compliance with the
requirements of the Government in favor'of one holding ad-.
verse possession of the real estate. Dolen v. Black, 67 N. W.
Rep. (Neb.) 760; Udell v. Peak, 7 S. W.. Rep. (Tex.) 786;
Patten v. Scott, 12 Atl. Rep. .(Pa.) 292; Hayes v. Martin, 45
California, 559.
MR. JusTICE DAY, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The original grant of,- May, 1856, was in prcesenti. The
title passed from the United States and vested in the State
'of Iowa on October 13, 1856, when the map of definite location
was lodged in the General Land Office, and the right of the
company then attached. -Iowa.Falls Land Company v. Griffy,
143 U. S' 32.
Under the decisions made by this court in Desert Salt Company v. Tarpey, 142 U. S. 241, and Toltec Ranch Company v.
- Cook, 191 U S.'532, notwithstanding the patent had ijot been
'issued, the railway coImpany, ,grantor of the plaintiff in error,
having succeeded to the right and title of the original company
and complied "with all the terms and conditions of the grant,
as required in :the legislation of. Congress and the acts of the
Iowa legislature afte r the acceptance of the grant by the State,
was lin'a position and clothed with the requisite title in' order
to transmit the-same to another who might have recovered
possession' of thelands, and it could itself havecbrought an
action in ejectment to .oust one holding adverse 'possession
thereof, and being .clothed with these rights was in such position that the' Statute 'of Limitations would,'run against it
in favor of one who occupied the premises by adverse possession Under color, of title. This Was distinctly decided in the
Toltec Ranch Company case, wherein it was held that the Stat-

492.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

ute of.Linitations would run against the railroad company, thus
*situated toward the lands,'although the patent had not issued.,
it is sought to withdraw this- case from. the application of
the doctrine of Salt Co.v. Tarpey, and Toltec Ranch Company V...
Cook.. It is argued that § 4 of the act of May, 1856, provided
that if the roads Were not completed in ten years the unsold
lands should revert to the United States; that on March 10,
1868, the State of Iowa resumed the grant of lands as made
to the original grantees; that by act, of June 2, 1864, Congress
provided in section 8:
"That no .lands hereby granted shall be'certified to either
of said companies until. the Governor of the State of Iowa
shall. certify to the Secretary of .the.Interior that the said company has completed, ready forthe rolling stock, within one
year from .the first:day of July next, a section of not-less than
twenty miles from the present -terminus of the completed
portion o*f
said railroad, and ineach year thereafter an 'additiona section of twenty miles.; but te *numberof sections
per mile.-originally authorized shall be certified to each compaiy, upon proof, as, aforesaid, of -the completion of the additional.secti.ons of the road as aforesaid; and upon the failure
.of either company to complete either section as aforesaid,
to be annually built, the. portion of the land r~mainiig' uncertified shall become subject to the -control and dispositr6n .of. the
legislature .of the State ' of Iowa, to. aid in the. completion of
such road."
And, it is argued, 'that the effect of this section was to hold
'the legal title until the railways were built and completed,
as. therein specified, and that the Iowa Falls and Sioux City
Railroad'Company. never took the legal title to the lands in
"controversy until certified under section 8, of the act of 1864,
which, it is alleged, was "not until, January 20,. 1903, followed
by.the Governor's p4tent of February 2, 1903.
'But when the grant 'is in .prmsenti, and nothing remains to
.be done for the administration of the grant in the Land Department, and the conditions of the grant have been complied

IOWA RAILROAD LAND CO., v. BLUMER.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

with and the grant fully earned, as in this case, notwithstanding
the want of final certification and the issue of the patent, the
railroad company had such title as would enable it to maintain ejectment against one wrongfully on the lands, and title
by prescription would run against it in favor of one in adverse
possession under color of title. Salt Co. v. Tarpey, and Toltec Ranch Co. v. Cook' supra.
Applying and giving weight to the decisions thus recently
rendered ,inthis court, we think the debatable proposition
in the case concerns not the title of the railway company,,
or its right to have maintained an action to recover the premises,
but involves the right of Carraher, and the defendant in error
as his successor, to claim the title to the premises by adverse
possession.
We think the record discloses that for more than ten years
required by the Iowa statute to ripen such title, .Carraher
was in possession of the premises. He had planted a large
number of trees; caused the lands to be cultivated; had raised
crops; had rented 'the lands to others,. and was understood
-to be claiming the 9 wnership. The answer of plaintiff in error
to this claim of title is that Carraher was not in possession of
the premises claiming title in good faith.
The record shows that in 1883, by an entry under the Timber
Culture Act, Carraher clAimed this forty acre tract. As we
have seen in'the statement preceding this opinion, his application was' rejected by the Register of the General Land Office,
whose decision was affirmed by the Commissioner and ultimately by the Secretary of the Interior. Pending his appeal,
Carraher made a second application for the lands to the Register of the. Land Office, and a receiver's receipt was issued
to-him. This receiver's receipt was dated May 31, 1888, and
'is
as follows:
Application No. 607.
"Receiver's Receipt No;. 607.
"Receiver's Office, Des Moines, Iowa, May 31st, 1888.
* "Received of John Carraher the sum of. Nine Dollars-

494

.

4 OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

cents, being the amount of fee and compensation of Register
and- Receiver for the entry- of Northeast of N. E: quarter
of Section one, in township 89 of range 46,. under the first section of the act of Congress approved June 14th, 1878, entitled
'An act to amend an act entitled an act to encourage the growth
of timber on the Western Prairies.'
"$9.00.
M. V. MCHENRY, Receiver.
"Endorsed: State of Iowa, Woodbury County,: Filed for
record this 9th. day of Dec.J 1891, at 2 o'clock P.M., and recorded in Book 40 Lands, page 162, C..A. DeMun, Recorder.
P. Shontz, Deputy."
It was enclosed to Carraher in a letter, of which the following
is acopy:
"Mr. John Carraher.
Sioux City, Iowa, June 2, 1888.
"My Dear Sir: I have the pleasure of handing you herewith
-your timber Culture entry Receiver's receipt No. 607 for
N. E. of N. E. ,1, 89, 46.
"Respectfully,

GEO. W. WAKEFIELD.

"P. S, You can take possession and proceed to comply with
the timber culture laws."
After this receiver's receipt and letter, Carraher went into
possession in the manner we have already. stated and held
it until 1901, when, shortly before his deathi he conveyed
the premises to the defendant' in error:' The contention is
that this possession could not have been in good faith with
any expectation of obtaining, title from the Government at
the conclusion of the eight: years required by law in Which
to earn, it; that Carraher knew that his first. application under
the Timber Culture Act had been, rejected, and afterwards
that.decision was affirmed on appeal in 1891, and that he could
not have .continued in the occupation of the premises in good
faith under claim of title.
The record shows that when the Secretary of the Interior
(July 11- 1891), affirmed the :decision against Carraher's first

IOWA RAILROAD LAND CO. v. BLUMER.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

timber culture entry the Commissioner in advising the Register
and Receiver at Des Moines by letter of July.13, 1891, of that
decision, added: "It appears that on May 31, 1888, more than
three years after the rejection of his application, and while
his case was pending before the Secretary of the Interior. on
appeal, your office allowed Carraher to make timber culture
entry 607 of the land. The action was without authority
and the entry has this day been cancelled." It does not appear
that Carraher was notified that this .entry 607 had been cancelled, nor was he ever called upon to appear in reference to
the same, and the letter of the Commissioner discloses that
the Register of the Land Office at Des Moines should not have
allowed the entry -to be made and that it was summarily
cancelled without notice or hearing. Carraher had been advised by the letter from his counsel, who had become a judge
of a court in Iowa, that he might take possession and proceed
to comply with the timber 'culture law. As far as the record
shows, he heard nothing further from his entry, knew nothing
of its summary cancellation, 'and no attempt was made to
disturb his possession of the premises.
The Supreme Court of Iowa held that there was nothing
in these facts to show that Carraher was not acting in good
faith, and with the belief that he would acquire title under
the last: entry under the Timber Culture Act, and we are not
prepared.to disturb this holding.
After 1891, as we have seen, the railway company was in
position to have ousted him from the premises and asserted
its superior title and right. It did not attempt to do this,,
and so far as the record. discloses made no objection to Carraher
planting and cultivating the trees required by the act of
Congress to perfect his title under the second application.
His possession was certainly open, notorious, continuous and
,adverse, and unless he was acting in bad faith, was such as
would ripen into full title as against the railway company,
it failing to assert its rights within the period of the Statute
of Limitations. While until the time had run required by the

496 -,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

206 U. S.

Timber Culture Act, Carraher would have been in no position
to claim title as against the Government, he was occupying.
a hostile attitude toward the railway company, and, while

recognizing title in the United States, he expected to acquire,
title from it, had excluded all others from the use and occupation of the land and held under no other title. The Supreme
Court of Iowa has held that under such circumstances the
statute of. limttations of Iowa would run in his favor as against
the railroad company, and we find no reason to disturb that
conclusion. And for more than ten years that company was
insuch position under its grant that it might have maintained
an action in ejectment and asserted its title to the premises
as against Carraher.
We find no error in the judgment of the Supreme 'Court

of Iowa and it will be
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER concurs in the judgment.

VICKSBURG v. VICKSBURG WATERWORKS COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT. OF MISSISSIPPI.
,No. 275. Argued April 24, 1907.-Decided May 27, 1907.
A decree must be read in the light of the issues involved in the pleadings and
the, relief sought, and a decree in a suit brought by a water compaiiy
against a municipality to enjoin it from regulating rates does not finally
dispose of the right of the city to regulate rates under a law passed after
the contract went into effect and after the bill was filed.
A State may, in matters of proprietary rights, exclude itself and authorize its
municipal corpbrations to exclude themselves, from the right of regulation
of such matters as water rates.'
In view of the decisions of the highest court of Mississippi a municipality of
that State may, under a broad grant of legislative authority conferred
without restrictions or conditions, make a contract with a corporation,
fixing a maximum rate at which water should be supplied to the inhabi-

