OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

206 U. S.

ELLIS v. UNITED STATES.
EASTERN DREDGING COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
SAME v. SAME.
SAME v. SAME.
BAY STATE DREDGING COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
SAME v. SAME.
SAME v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
Nos. 567, 664, 665, 666, 667, 668, 669.

Argued April 23, 24, 1907.-Decided May 13,
1907.

The provisions in the act of August 1, .1892, 27 Stat. 340, limiting the hours
of laborers and mechanics employed by the United States or any contractor or subcontractor upon any of the public works of the United
States to eight hours per day except in cases of extraordinary emergency,
and imposing penalties for the violationi thereof, are constitutional and
within the powers of Congress. In this respect Congress has -the same
power as a State has over the construction of its public works. Atkin
v. Kanscs, 191 U. S. 207.
An act of Congress otherwise valid is not unconstitutional because the
motive in enacting it was to secure certain advantages for conditions of
labor not subject to the general control of Congress.
Although, in the absence of special laws, the Government, purely as a contractor, may stand like a private person, it does not, by making a contract, waiv6 its sovereignty or give ut its Dower to make laws which
render criminal a breach of the contract.
The disappointment of a contractor with regard to obtaining some of his
materials did not, under the circumstances of this case, amount to an
extraordinary emergency within the. meaning of the statute and justify
him in having laborers work more than eight hours.
One who intentionally adopts certain. conduct in certain circumstances
known to him, which conduct is unlawful, intentionally breaks the law.
Persons employed on dredges and sco,,vs, In dredging a channel in a harbor
are'not within the meaning of the act'of'August 1,-1892, laborers or mechanics employed on any of the public works of the United States.

facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. D. T. Watson, for plaintiff in error Ellis, submitted:
THE

The right of the individual to dispose of his labor upon such
terms as he deems best, is undoubted, and admitted in Atkin

ELLIS v. UNITED STATES.
206 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

v. Kansas, 191 U. S. 223. If he may dispose of it at all, then
the extent of the disposition is a matter optional with himself.
The men who worked on the pier did so voluntarily. The sole
crime of Ellis was that he did not forcibly restrain them from
the work.
The great weight, if not the universal voice of authority, is to
the effect that an adult may, if he sees fit, engage for what time
he sees fit in ordinary employments not- dangerous, hazardous
or injurious to life, limb or health, and he has that right, as
part of his liberty. Under the Preamble of the Federal Constitution, and Article V of the Amendments the power delegated
by'the people to the Congress does not include the power to de-,
prive him of his liberty. Lochner v. New York, 198-U. S. 53.
The laborer -can work nowhere unless employed. He works
under contract. To take from him one of the places where he
may work over eight hours, public work, even if the contractor
is willing to employ him, deprives him of part of his liberty and
is unconstitutional. People v. OrangeCo., 175 N. Y. 84; Articles
in Central. Law Journal, No. 11, pp. 147, 163, 181, 198; No. 58,
361; Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578, 591; Holden v. Hardy,
169 U. S. 366, 391; Williams v. Fears, 179 U. S. 270, 274;
Butchers' Union v. Crescent City, 111 U. S. 746-757.
There is no pretense in the present case that the kind Of work
done was hazardous-or unhealthy-or in any way dangerous
to life or limb. It was not of a class with such cases as Holden
v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366.
It is one thing to hold that a State or municipality may by
contract restrict the hours of labor, for by entering into the
contract each person waives his right to the constitutional
protection. It is entirely another thing to make it a crime for
a man to insist on his constitutional right to labor more than
eight hours a day.
The Act of 1892 is constitutional in so far as it prohibits the
Departments from contracting for more than eight hours' labor
per day on public works, but it is unconstitutional in so far as it
makes it a crime for one who has come into contractual rela-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for the Eastern Dredging Co.

206 U. S.

tions with the Government for that public work to permit some
other man to work more than eight hours per day.
In this case Ellis simply permitted two men to work more
than eight hours a day. He did not force them to work more
than eight hours a day; he owed no duty to the Government to
enforce its laws as a police officer or a sheriff. His relation to
the Government was only and solely contractual so far as the
pier was concerned; his contract did not contain qny covenant
that he was to oversee and prevent men from working on the
pier more than eight hours a day, or if it did, if it be said that
the Act of 1892 is read into Ellis's contract with the Government
and made part of it, and Ellis agrees to enforce the act so far
as the pier is concerned, still his relations with the Government
are contractual and contractual only.
Mr. Edward E. Blodgett, with whom Mr. G. Philip Wardner
was on the brief, for the Eastern Dredging Company:
Men engaged in dredging a channel in Boston Harbor cannot
be said to be employed upon any of the public works of the
United States or of the District of Columbia. As to what are
"public works" see Century Dictionary, p. 4830. Ellis v.
Common Council of Grand Rapids, 123 Michigan, 567; Winters
v. Duluth, 82 Minnesota, 127; Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law, 2d
ed., Vol. 23, p. 459.
The performance by the United States Government of any
of its governmental functions may be said to be public work;
but no one can be said to be employed'on the public works of
the United States unless he is employed upon some physical,
tangible structure actually made or erected by the hand of
man, and the property of the United States Government.
The place where the dredging was being done was not owned
by and had never been ceded to the Government of the United
States, and was not under its control, except so far as the navigable waters of Boston Harbor were under its control.
The persons alleged in the informations to have been employed in;violation of law were not laborers or mechanics.

ELLIS v. UNITED STATES.
206 U. S.

Argument for the Eastern Dredging Co.

The tug, the dredge and the scow were clearly vessels within
the admiralty jurisdiction of the United States.
As concerns the tug, there can of course be no dispute.
Nor is there room for any doubt in relation to the dredge and
scow.
The word vessel includes every description of water craft
or other artificial contrivance used or capable of being used as a
means of transportation on water. Rev. Stat., §3. By §4612,
Rev. Stat. it is provided that in the construction of Title 53 of
the Revised Statutes relating to merchant seamen "The term
'vessel' shall be understood to comprehend every description
of vessel navigating on any sea or channel, lake or river, to
which the provisions of this-Title may be applicable."
In reality the dredge and the scows are to be regarded as one
plant or instrument for dredging and transporting mud.
But even if they be regarded separately, it still appears that
the scows were used for transporting mud, and that the dredge
was used for transporting her crew and the dredging equipment
necessary to dig up the mud and put it into the scowg, and
therefore are both vessels as known to the law. The General
Cass, Brown, Adm., 334; a. c. Fed. Cas. No. 5307 (Scow); Endner v. Greco, 3 Fed. Rep. 411 (Scows); The Alabama, 19 Fed.
Rep. 544, aff'd. 22 Fed. Rep. 449 (Dredge and Scows); The Pioneer, 30 Fed. Rep. 206 (Dredge); Disbrowv. Walsh Bros., 36 Fed.
Rep. 607 (Barge); The Atlantic, 53 Fed. Rep. 607 (Dredge);
The Starbuck, 61 Fed. Rep. 502 (Dredge); The International,
83 Fed. Rep. 840 (Dredge and Scows); Lawrence v. Flat-boat,
84 Fed. Rep. 200 (Flat-boat with pile-driver); McRae v. Bowers
Dredging Co., 86 Fed. Rep. 344 (Dredge); Steam Dredge No. 1,
87 Fed. Rep. 760 (Dredge); McMaster v. One Dredge, 95 Fed.
Rep. 832 (Dredge); Bowers Hydraulic Dredging Co. v. Federal
Contracting Co,, 148 Fed. Rep. 290 (Dredge).
If the tug, the dredge and the scows were vessels, then the
men employed to operate them were seamen.
There will, of course, be no dispute about the master and
mate of the tug. Curtis' Merchant Seamen, p. 5; Benedict

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for the United States.

206 U. S.

Adm. Prct., 3d. ed, § 278; Hughes on Adm., p. 21. The law
is equally clear as to the engineer and fireman on the tug.
Wilson v. The Ohio, Gilpin, 505; Gurney v. Crockett, Abbott's
Adm. 490.
The others-namely, the master, fireman, cranesman, and
deck hands on the dredge, and the scowman-are seamen, for
the reason that they were each of them one of the crew of the
vessel on which they were employed, and they each of them cooperated in the operation, maintenance, and navigation of these
vessels.
Mr. W. Orison Underwood, with whom Mr. Henry F. Knight
was on the brief, for Bay State Dredging Company.
The Solicitor General, the Attorney General and Mr. Otis J.
Carlton, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, for the
United States:
1. The Act of August 1, 1892, chapter 352 (27 Stat. 340),
known as the eight-hour law, is constitutional.
The first eight-hour law, act of June 25, 1868, chapter 72 (15
Stat. 77) was twice before this court, but in neither case was
it necessary to pass on its validity. United States v. Martin,
94,'U. S.400; United States y.Driscoll, 96 U..S. 421. In those
cases the statute was considered as in the nature of a direction
from a principal to his agent that eight hours is the proper
length of time for a day's work: contracts fixing a different
length of time are legal (Martin's case, supra); and the statute
does not apply to the employ6s of independent contractors
(Driscoll'scase, supra). The act of 1892 was passed because of
the interpretation given to the act of 1868 in those cases and
the absence of a penal provision, preserving the principle of the
prior statute, to insure its effective execution. The validity
of neither act has ever been questioned. United States v.
Ollinger, 55 Fed. Rep. 959; United States v. Jefferson, 60 Fed.
Rep. 736; United States v. John Kelso Company, 86 Fed. Rep.
304; United States v. San Francisco Bridge Company, 88 Fed.
Rep. 891; Opin. A. G. 530; 13 ib. 29, 424; 14 ib. 37, 128; 16 ib.

ELLIS v, UNITED STATES.
206 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

58; 17 ib.341; 18 ib. 389; 20 b. 445, 454, 459, 487, 500; 21 lb.
32; 25 ib. 441, 465; 26 ib. 1, 30, 36, 64. In 25 Opin. A. G. 441,
444, the theory upon which this law was passed is well statedthat the Government, as an employer of labor, may dictate
the terms upon which its work shall be conducted. Cases like
Lochner v. New York, 198 U. S. 53, may be distinguished because the act of 1892 does not interfere with the conduct of
private business; it merely prescribes the terms upon which
the Government will permit labor to be employed upon its
public works. Section 3 expressly limits the operation of the
act to contracts entered into after its passage. Atkin v. Kansas,
191 U. S. 207, holding valid a state eight-hour law precisely
similar to act of 1892 under the Fourteenth Amendment,
which is like the Fifth Amendment, upon which appellants
rely, is absolutely controlling.
2. Deepening a channel is "public works of the United
States." The very work upon which the dredging companies
were engaged was authorized by statutes defining the work, in
-their titles and enacting clauses, as public works. Act June 13,
1902, chapter 1079 (32 Stat. 331, 332), act March 3, 1905,
chapter 1482 (33 Stat. 1118). Ellis's work was authorized in an
appropriation act under subhead, "Public Works." 33 Stat.
1092, 1101. Before and since 1892 works of a character like
those upon which each of the appellants was engaged have been
denominated public works by Congress. 20 Stat. 152, 363; 21
Stat. 8, 180, 468; 22 Stat. 191; 24 Stat. 310, 581, 584; 25 Stat.
400, 462, 813; 26 Stat. 193, 426, 803; 27 Stat. 88, 240, 721; 28
Stat. 130, 831; 29 Stat. 202, 367, 654; 30 Stat. 377,1030, 1121;
31 Stat. 692, 1116; 32 Stat. 331; 33 Stat. 333, 1101, 1117.
Congress, even by later enactments, may define terms of other
acts. Johnson v. The Southern Pacific Company, 196 U. S. 1,
21, and cases cited. In United States v. Jeflerson, 60 Fed. Rep.
736, removing obstructions to navigation was held to be public works. That dredging is public work, see 26 Opin. A. G.
30, 34; 23 l. 174, 176. It is immaterial that a State has political
jurisdiction over the place where the works are being con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for the United States.

206 U. S.

structed. United States v. San Francisco Bridge Company, 88
Fed. Rep. 304.
3. The exception "in.case of extraordinary emergency" only
applies to sudden, unexpected happenings not of the customary, usual, or regular kind, demanding prompt action to avert
imminent danger to life, limb, health or property; urgent
situations which can be foreseen in time to avoid the necessity
of overtime work must be guarded against solely by putting additional shifts at work; and possibility of pecuniary loss is not
enough to justify continuously working men overtime. See definitions of "emergency" and "extraordinary" in Century DicDebates, Cong. Rec.,
tionary, Standard, Webster, Worcester.
vol. 23, pages 5724, 5728, 5729; vol. 23, Appendix, pages 452
et seq.; and the Senate and House Reports accompanying
H. R. 8537. Debates and reports of committees which will
be examined to find the situation as it existed at the time
the act of 1892 was under consideration and was pressed upon
the attention of Congress. United States v. Union Pacific Railroad, 91 U. S. 72, 79; Church of the Holy Trinity v. United States,
143 U. S. 457; United States v. Laws, 163 U. S. 258; American
Net and Twine Company v. Worthington; 141 U. S. 468; Dunlap
v. United Staies, 173 U. S. 65, show that the purpose of Congress
was to secure better citizens by promoting the educational,
social and moral elevation of the industrial classes. The exception to the law will not be construed so as to defeat the purposes
of Congress. People v. Waring, 64 N. Y. Suppl. 865; 52 App.
Div. N. Y. 36, may be distinguished.
4. The application of the term "laborers and mechanics" to
employ~s engaged in ordinary dredging operations upon the
ordinary non-seagoing dredge and attendant tugs and scows.
a. The term applies to all who come within the ordinary
meaning of the words, irrespective of the manner in which they
are paid. 12 'Opin. A. G. 530, 533; 25 Opin. A. G. 465. See,
also, 18 Opin. A. G. 389, 391. 14 Opin. A. G. 128, stating that
act of 1868 is limited to employ~s paid a day's wages for a day's
work, and Billinsley v. Marshall County, 5 Kan. App. 435,

ELLIS v. UNITED STATES
206 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

where there is a similar intimation, will not be followed, for
to construe the act of 1892 as limited to employs paid by the
day would enable the purpose of the act to be defeated by paying weekly or monthly wages.
b. The ordinary meaning of the term includes employ~s on
the dredge and the scowman. Deck hands, while engaged upon
the work of removing obstructions to navigation, are laborers
within act of 1892. United States v. Jefferson, 60 Fed. Rep.
736. Fireman on land (United States v. Martin, 94 U. S. 400)
and on board ship (Wilson v. Zulueta, 14 Q. B. 405) are laborers. See, also, 26 Opin. A. G. 64. Locomotive engineers
are mechanics. Sanner v. Shivers, 76 Georgia, 335; State ex
rel. I. X. L. Grocery Company v. Land, 108 Louisiana, 512.
Application of the act of 1892 to Government Printing Office
(25 Stat. 57; 28 Stat. 607) shows that word "mechanics"
applies to those engaged in operating and tending machines.
c. Employ~s named are not seamen. If their employment
can be said to be so peculiar as to take them out of the act it is
only while the dredge is being towed from port to port. A
dredge fixed in position and operating upon an excavation
under water is like a land steam shovel operating on land.
Cases holdiiig dredges and scows to be vessels .(The International, 89 Fed. Rep. 484) rest upon definition of "vessel." Rev,
Stats. § 3. Properly speaking, they are not vessels. United
States v. The Ohio, 27 Fed. Cas. No. 15,915; United States v.
The Pennsylvania Canal Boat, 27 Fed. Cas. No. 16,027.
d. These views are supported by considering evils designed
to be remedied by the statute. Committee reports and debates
show that, during the thirty years preceding 1892, there had
been so many mechanical inventions brought into use that the
labor market had become congested and there was not sufficient
remunerative employment for all who wished to work. By its
definitions of "public works" it is clear that Congress intended
the act of 1892 to apply to dredging operations; and in view
of the evil which the statute was designed to cure, none of those
upon the labor-saving device known as a dredge, who come

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

within the ordinary meaning of "laborers and mechanics"
can be worked overtime lawfully, upon ordinary occasions.
e. Executive interpretation of act of 1892 cannot control
because meaning of the statute is plain and unambiguous.
Houghton v. Payne, 194 U. S. 88, 100. The action of the War
Department, which down to July, 1906, did not consider that
the, act of 1892 applied to employ6s on government dredges, is
now abandoned as to deck hands and some others, and it was
founded, upon a misconception of an opinion by Attorney
General Miller (20 Opin. A. G. 459). His opinion that the act
of 1892 does not apply to "sailors or others on shipboard" does
not refer to dredges; the question before him related only to
those on "vessels;" dredges are not properly classed as vessels
nor are their employds to be regarded as sailors during the
performance of an ordinary dredging operation. The action of
the War Department is now partly abandoned and is no longer
insisted on. See, orders, memoranda, letters, etc., in appendix
to brief, showing fully the past and present attitude of the
War Department. Since passage of the act' of August 13, 1894
(28 Stat. 278), -requiring contractors upon the public works
to give bonds for'the protection of persons furnishing materials
and labor, contractors upon dredging works have been required to give bonds.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

These are an indictment and .ilformations under the Act of
August 1, 1892, c. 352,. 27 Stat. 340, "Relating to the Limitation of the Hours of Daily Service of Laborers and Mechanics
Employed upon the Puulic Works of the United States and of
the District of Columbia." They allbring up the question of
the constitutionality of theact, and they severally present some
subordinate matters, which will be considered under the respective cases.
The act limits the service and employment of all laborers
and mechanics employed by the United States, by the District

ELLIS v. UNITED STATES.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court,

of Columbia, or by any contractor or subcontractor upon any
of the public works of the United States or the District, to eight
hours in any one calendar day, and makes it unlawful "to re-.
quire or permit any such laborer- or mechanic to work more
than eight hours in any calendar day except in case of extraordinary emergency."
By §2 "any officer or agent of -the
Government of the United States or of the District of Columbia,
or any contractor or subcontractor whose duty it shall be to
employ, direct, or control any laborer or mechanic employed
upon any of the public works of the Unitea States or of the
District of Columbia who shall intentionally violate any provision of this act, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and
for each and every such offense shall upon conviction be punished by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars or by imprisonment for not more than six months, or by both such fine
and imprisonment, in the discretion of the courthaving jurisdiction thereof." The plaintiffs in error were contractors within
the scope of the act, were found guilty and were firmed. They
all requested rulings that the act was unconstitutional, excepted
to the refusal so to rule, and on that ground brought their cases
to this court.
The contention that the act is unconstitutional is not frivolous, since it may be argued that there are relevant distinctions
between the power of the United States and that of a State.
But the arguments naturally urged against such a statute apply
equally for the most part to the two jurisdictions, and are
answered, so far as a State is concerned, by Atkin v. Kansas,
191 U. S. 207. In that case a contractor for work upon a municipal boulevard was sentenced to a fine under a similar law of
Kansas, and the statute was upheld. We see no reason to deny
to the United States the power thus e&tablished for the States.
Like the States, it may sanction the requirements made of
contractors employed upon its public works by penalties in
case those requirements are not fulfilled. It would-be a strong
thing to say that a legislature that had power to forbid or to
authorize and enforce a contract had not also the power to

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

make a breach of it criminal, but however that may be, Congress, as incident to its power to authorize and enforce contracts for public works, may require that they shall be carried
out only in a way consistent with its views of public policy, and
may punish a departure from that way. It is true that it has
not the general power of legislation possessed by the legislatures
of the States, and it may be true that the object of this law is of
a kind not subject to its general control. But the power that
it has over the mode in which contracts with the United States
shall be performed cannot be limited by a speculation as to
motives. If the motive be conceded, however, the fact that
Congress has not general control over the conditions of labor
does not make unconstitutional a law otherwise valid, because
the purpose of the law is to secure to it certain advantages, so
far as the law goes.
One other argument is put forward, but it hardly needs an
answer. A ruling was asked in Ellis's case, and is attempted
to be sustained, to the effect that the Government waived its
sovereignty by making a contract, and that even if the Act of
1892 were read into the contract, a breach of its requirements
would be only a breach of contract and could not be made a
crime. This is a mere confusion of ideas. The Government
purely as contractor, in the absence of special laws, may stand
like a private person, but by making a contract it does not give
up its power to make a law, and it may make a law like the present for the reasons that we have stated. We are of opinion that
the act is not contrary to the Constitution of the United States.
We pass to the subordinate matters not common to all the
cases. In Ellis's case the plaintiff in error agreed to construct
-and complete pier No. 2 at the Boston Navy Yard, within six
months, according to. certain specifications and at a certain
price: He found more difficulty than he expected, although
he expected some trouble, in getting certain oak and pine piles
called for by the contract, and, having been delayed by that
cause, he permitted his associate in the business to employ
men for nine hours, in the hurry to get the work done. The

ELLIS v. UNITED STATES.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

judge instructed the jury that the evidence did not show an
"extraordinary emergency" within the meaning of the act. The
judge was right in ruling upon the matter. Even if, as in other
instances, a nice case might be left to the jury, what emergencies are within the statute is merely a constituent element of a
question of law, since the determination of that element determines the extent of the statutory prohibition and is material
only to that end. The ruling was correct. It needs no argument to show that the disappointment of a contractor with regard to obtaining some of his materials, a matter which he knew
involved some difficulty of which he took the risk, does not
create such an emergency as is contemplated in the exception to
the law. Again, the construction of the pier was desirable for
the more convenient repair of -warships, but it was not essential.
Vessels had been docked without it since 1835 or 1836, so that
there was no hot haste on that account, if under any circumstances that kind of need would have been enough.
There is only one other question raised in Ellis's case. It is
admitted that he was a contractor within the meaning of the
act and that the workmen permitted to work more than eight
hours a day were employed upon "public works," and it is not
denied that these workmen were "mechanics." The jury were
instructed, subject to exception, that if the defendant intended
to permit the men to work over eight hours on the calendar day
named he intended to violate the statute. The argument
against the instruction is that the word "intentionally" in
the statute requires knowledge of the law, or at least that to
be convicted Ellis must not have supposed, even mistakenly,
that there was an emergency extraordinary enough to justify
his conduct. The latter proposition is only the former a little
disguised. Both are without foundation. If a man intentionally adopts certain conduct in certain circumstances known
to him, and that conduct is forbidden by the law under those
circumstances, he intentionally breaks the law in the only sense
in which the law ever considers intent. The judgment in this
case must be affirmed.
VPL. ccVI--:17

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

The three cases against the Eastern Dredging Company were
informations for employing certain men, alleged to be laborers
or mechanics, more than eight hours a day upon what was
alleged to be one of the public works of the United States, viz.,
dredging a portion of the thirty-five foot channel, so called, in
Boston Harbor. The cases against the Bay State Dredging
Company were similar, except that the place was Chelsea Creek
in Boston Harbor. Of the former, No. 664 was in three counts
for employing two deck hands and an assistant craneman and
deck hand upon a dredge; No. 665 was for employing the master, craneman and fireman of the dredge; and No. 666 was for
employing, the captain, mate, engineer, and foreman pf a tug
that towed a scow, etc., and a man in charge of the scow. Of
the Bay State Dredging Company cases, No. 667 was for employing the captain, mate and fireman of a dredge; No. 668
was for employing a craneman and deck hand on the dredge;
and No. 669 was for employing a scowman and the captain and
engineer of a tug. The offenses were admitted or proved subject to the questions that already have been considered, and to
the further questions whether the dredging was upon one of
the public works of the United States and whether the persons
employed were laborers or mechanics within the meaning of
the act, with one or two lesser points that will not need to be
discussed.
Both of the phrases to be construed admit a broad enough
interpretation to cover these cases, but the question is whether
that interpretation is reasonable, and, in a penal statute, fair.
Certainly they may be read in a narrower sense with at least
equal ease. The statute says, "laborers and mechanics .
employed

.

.

.

upon any of the public works."

It does

not say, and no one supposes it to mean, "any public work."
The words "upon" and "any of the,'" and the plural "works"
import that the objects of labor referred to have some kind of
permanent existence and structural unity, and .are severally
capable of being regarded as complete wholes. The fact that
the persons mentioned as employed upon them are laborers and.

ELLIS v. UNITED STATES.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

mechanics, words admitted not to include seamen, points in
the direction of structures and away from the sea. The very
great difficulty, if not impossibility, of dredging in the ocean,
if such a law is to govern it, is a reason for giving the defendants
the benefit of a doubt; and the fact that until last year the
Government worked dredging crews more than eight hours is a
practical construction not without its weight. A change seems
to have been made simply for the sake of consistency between
the different departments of the Government, as is stated in
an order of the Secretary of War. A different conclusion is
sought to be drawn from some appropriation acts, but they
simply refer to the improvement of harbors in general terms
among the public works for which appropriations are made.
The dimprovement of a harbor may consist in the erection of
structures as well as in the widening of a channel, or the explosion of a rock. It is unnecessary to lay special stress on the
title to the soil in which the qhannels were dug, but it may be
noticed that it was not in the United States. The .language
of the acts is "public works of the United States." As the
works are things upon which the labor is expended,. the most
natural meaning of "of the United States" is belonging to the
United States.
The words laborers and mechanics are admitted not to apply
to seamen as that name commonly is used. Therefore it was
contended but faintly that the masters of the tugs could
not be
employed more than eight hours. But the argument does not
stop with masters of tugs, or even With mates, engineers and
firemen of the same. Wilson V. The Ohio, Gilpin, 505; Holt v.
Cummings, 102 Pa. St..- 212. The scows and floating dredges
were vessels. Rev. Stat. §§3, 4612. They were within the
admiralty jurisdiction of the United States. The Robert W.
Parsons, 191 U. S.17. (A number of cases as to dredges in
the Circuit and District Courts are referred to in Brown Hydraulic Dredging Co. v. Federal Contracting Co., 148 Fed. Rep,
290.) Therefore all of the hands mentioned in the information$
Were seamen within the definition in an earlier statute of the'

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
MOODY,

J.; dissenting.

206 U. S.

United States. Rev. Stat. § 4612; Saylor v. Taylor, 77 Fed.
Rep. 476; S. C., 23 C. C. A. 343. See also Act of March 3, 1875,
c. 156, § 3; 18 Stat."485; Bean v. Stupart, 1 Dougl. 11; Disbrow
v. The Walsh Brothers, 36 Fed. Rep. 607. They all require
something of the training and are liable to be called upon for
more or less of the services required of ordinary seamen. The
reasons which exclude the latter from the statute apply, although perhaps in a less degree, to them. Whatever the nature
of their work it is incident to their employment on the dredges
and scows as in the case of an engineer or coal shoveller on
board ship. Without further elaboration of details we are of
opinion that the persorls employed by the two defendant companies were not laborers or mechanics and were not employed
upon any of the public works of the United States within the
meaning of the act. As in other cases where a broad distinction
is ,admitted, it ultimately becomes necessary to draw a line,
and the determination of the precise place of that line in nice
cases always seems somewhat technical, but still the line must
be drawn.
Judgment in 567 affirmed.
Judgments in 664, 665, 666, 667, 668 and 669 reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MOODY took no part in the decision of 567.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA is of opinion that the jwork upon the
dredging of Chelsea Creek was within the act. In other particulars he agrees with the judgment of the court.

MR. JUSTICE MOODY dissenting in Nos. 664, 665, 666, 667,
668 and 669.
I am unable to agree with the opinion of the court, so far
as it relates to the employment for more than eight hours a
day of the men engaged in work on the dredges and scows.
The cases are of such general importance that I am unwilling
to allow the reasons for my disagreement to remain undisclosed.

ELLIS v. UNITED STATES.
206 U. S.

MOODY,

J., dissenting.

The first question is whether the men named in the informations were employed by the defendants "upon any of the
public works of the United States" within the meaning of
those words as Congress used them. Let it be conceded, as
I think it should be, that "any of the public works" is a
narrower expression than "any public work" would be; that
public works must "have some kind of permanent existence
and structural unity and be severally capable of being regarded as complete wholes," and still the works here in question fall within the description. The dredging of channels
in our waterways is not mere digging. It has for its purpose
.the creation of something with as visible 'a form as a cellar to
a house, a sunken road, a well, a tidal basin or a sea-level
canal. Surely all these are "works j ' and if constructed by
the Government, "public works." Artificial waterways may
not be so easily read out of the statute by any definition, and
I cannot resist the belief that the definition accepted in the
,opinion of the court does not accomplish it.
Let us consider the history of one of these artificial approaches from the sea, such as the channel in Boston Harbor,
and see whether, when it is completed, it ought not to be
regarded as a complete whole, having a permanent existence
and structural unity. When a work of this kind*is proposed
the engineers of the Army, first obtaining the authority from
Congress, survey the region, consider the commercial reasons
which support the project and make plans for it and estimates
of its cost. Upon consideration of the engineers' report, Congress, if it approves the project, makes an appropriation for
its construction, designating it expressly as of the 'public
works" of the United States. For example, the appropriation
for one of the works in question in these cases is in the following terms: "The following sums of money . ...
. . . for the construction "'.
hereby appropriated

are
.

For imof the public works hereinafter named;
proving said harbor in accordance with the report submitted
in House Document, iaumber one hundred and nineteen,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
MOODY,

J., dissenting.

206 V. S.

Fifty-sixth Congress, Second Session, by providing channels
thirty-five feet deep,

six hundred thousand dollars."

That is to say, at the very threshold of the inquiry we find that
the Congress which had forbidden a longer day's work than
eight hours upon "the public works of the United States"
had, upon undertaking this very work, deliberately called it a
"public work." The cogency of the argument arising from
the use of the same words in the eight-hour law, as in the appropriation law, cannot be met by the suggestion that it is
.easy to read the words in the eight-hour law in a narrower
sense than they were used in the appropriation law. The
question here is not how the words may be interpreted, but
how they ought to be interpreted. There is no necessity to
explore the possibilities of escape from the intention which
Congress has made sufficiently plain.
In the Digest of Appropriations, made and published under
the direction of Congress, these constructions are constantly
denominated as "works," and of course they are "public."
After the channel is completed, it is buoyed and lighted by
the Government, and frequently defended by land fortifications constructed for that purpose. Sometimes breakwaters
or jetties are constructed for the purpose of preserving it from
impairment. The General -Appropriation Act of September 19,
1890, 26 Stat. 426, contains some provisions of permanent
law, which are material here. It begins by appropriating
"for the construction, completion, repair and preservation
of the public works hereinafter named." Then follow many
specific appropriations for the improvement of rivers and
harbors. Section 3717 of the Revised Statutes was as follows:
"Whenever the Secretary of War invites proposals for any
works, or for any material or labor for any works, there shall
be separate proposals and separate contracts for each work,
and also for each class of material or labor for each work."
Section 2 of this act provided that that section of the Revised
Statutes should not be construed to prohibit "the cumulation
of two or more works of river and harbor improvements in

ELLIS v. UNITED STATES.
206 U. S.

MOODY, J., dissenting.

the same proposal and contract, where such works are situated
in the same region and of the same kind or character." Of
course the works here referred to are public works. Section
6 prohibits the deposit of material in'harbors, navigable rivers
or waters of the United States. Section 7, as amended by
section 3 of the Act of July 13, 1892, 27 Stat. 88, 110, makes
it unlawful "to excavate or fill, or in any manner to alter or
modify the course, location, condition or capacity of any port,
roadstead, haven, harbor, harbor of refuge, or inclosure within
the limits of any breakwater or of the channel of any navigable
water of the United States, unless approved and authorized
by the Secretary of War." The Act of March 3, 1899, 30 Stat.
1151, makes additional safeguard against the obstruction of
navigable channels. Thus Congress, which 'has created these
artificial channels keeps them under the constant repair, supervision, control and protection of the Government. When
the work is done the Government, through the Navy Department and the Coast and Geodetic Survey, makes, publishes
and issues charts which show their length, depth and width
in the minutest detail, and the buoys and lights which enable
the mariner to use them with safety. He, like Congress, enters
upon the channels regarding them as completed wholes, as
having a permanent existence, and, if he strays beyond their
limits, he will quickly discover that they have a tangible form
and structural unity. Doubtless they are subject to alteration
by the action of the elements, but so is a building, and, given.
the constant repair and care which all structures need in order
to prevent their disintegration, they are as permanent as the
Capitol building itself. Quotations from acts of Congress
might be multipled indefinitely showing that with respect to
channels Congress had appropriated for them as "works"
and for their repair and maintenance as "works;" but if the
acts already referred to will not show that. Congress regarded
such waterways as public works, no number of others will
do it. I suppose it ,would be conceded that breakwaters or
jetties were public works. Is it to be supposed that Congress

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
MOODY

J., dissenting.

206 U. S.

intended that men who work on them should work only eight
hours a day, while those who work near by on the channel
itself should be exempted from this restriction? I conclude,
therefore, that the labor performed was upon "the public
works of the United States."
'The eight-hour day is prescribed by the statute, only for
laborers and mechanics. These words of description have
never been supposed to include and would not include all those
who do work of any kind. Although the extent of' these words
is somewhat vague, nevertheless they were used in a technical
sense to describe classes of employ~s. The second question
is whether the men named in the information were laborers
or mechancis.
Seamen, whether employed in the Navy or other marine
service of the United States or by contractors with the United
States, are not laborers or mechanics. They, while laboring
as seamen, could no more be brought within the limits of an
eight-hour day than a physician, a lawyer, or a clergyman.
They have always been regarded with special favor by all
governments, and a series of laws specially applicable to them
control and affect their conditions of labor. The men employed
on the seagoing tug, from the master down, were seamen, and
their work was the work of seamen, and the conviction with
respect to them was, I agree, erroneous. Those who are employed upon the dredges and scows were not, in respect of
the work they were actually doing, in any proper sense, seamen.
The master and engineer of the dredge were not licensed, and
the men employed upon it seemed not to have entered into
any contract of shipment.. They were employed usually from
those who had served in the merchant marine. They had
doubtless acquired the skill and aptitude which especially
fitted them for work upon the dredges, which required some
handling of lines and some other minor things in which sailors
become expert. But because a man has acquired in one occupation skill which fits him for another it does not follow that,
when he passes from one occupation'to the other, the work

ELLIS v. UNITED STATES.
206 U. S.

MOODY, J., dissenting.

which he does in the new employment entitles him rightfully
to be called by the old name. The sailor who is appointed the
keeper of a lighthouse may have received his appointment
because he was once a sailor, but nevertheless when he enters
into the new service he is a lighthouse keeper and not a sailor.
The occupation of dredging is not the only one for which life
on the sea educates a man. There is a constant demand, for.
instance, for those who have an honorable discharge from the
Navy for employment in civil life. The qualities of obedience,,
of daring, of fidelity, of the capacity for quick adaptation of
insufficient means to the end which may be desired, all the
result of training upon the sea, are qualities which are needed
in many stations of civil life, but when men have reached
those stations by reason of qualities developed in them while
seamen they are no longer sailors. The work of the dredgemen and scowmen may be described in a sentence. They
were digging a channel and emptying the material excavated
in the sea. All those who were engaged in the work may fairly
be described as either laborers or mechanics. They had nothing
whatever to do with navigation. Neither. the dredges nor the
scows had steering gear, sails or other methods of self-propulsion. They were towed to the place where the work was to
be done and there left to do it.
It does not seem to be important that for some purposes
the scows and dredges were vessels, or those employed upon
them for some purposes are deemed seamen. The question here
is what were the men when they were engaged in the work of
excavation? Were the men at that time employed as seamen,
doing the work of seamen, or as laborers and mechanics, doing
the work of laborers and mechanics? I think they then were
laborers or mechanics, and employed as such, and that their
occupation is deter.'ined, not by what they have done in the
past, or by what their employers chose to call them, but by
what they were doing when the Government invoked the law
for their benefit. If they were then doing the work of laborers
and mechanics,. whatever they may have done in the past,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
MOODY, J., diSaenting.

206 U; S.

which constitutes a motive for their employment, or by whatever name they were employed, .they were, or rather their.
labor was, ;within the restrictions as to hours prescribed bythe law. Nor was their work. in dredging incident to their
employment. on the dredges, but 4uite. the reverse. They
never would have been employed at all except for dredging.
They never would have set foot on the dredge save tojuse it
as a platform on which to do the work of laborers andmechanics.
It should not be forgotten that the object of this statute, in
which is embodied an expression of a great public policy, is to
regulate labor of the kind namied, and the men concerned are
in or out of its prohibitions solely by reason of the kind of labor
they perform.. How can it be material here whether tht dredge
is or is not a vessel within the admiralty jurisdiction or that
in the construction of two specifically named statutes all those
upon it are deemed to be seaman? There is no artificial statutorY construction prescribed for this art, and what the' men
on it. are-is left, under this act,. to be determined according
to the truth and fact, and the test to be applied is thd nature
of the labor they actually perform. They were employed todo the work of laborers and. mechanics, in the main they
actually did that work, and. whatever they did which -was of the
'nature of seamen's work was a mere incident .to the fact that
they labored upon. a floating platform instead of upon the dry
land..
It is -conceded in the opinion of the court that the statute
-admits of. an interpretation which brings these
cases -Within it.
May not more be. said? Are not these cases fairly. within the
plain words of the act? If this be so, then the rule of-strict
interpretation, applicable to .penal laws, a rule which has lost
all of its ancient rigor, if indeed it is now more than a lifeless
form (United States v. Lacher, 134 U. S.. 624, 628), cannot be
used to take' them out. When the intention of- the legislature
is reasonably clear,' the courts have no duty except to carry
it-out. .The rule for the construction of penal statutes is sat-,
isfied if the words are not enlarged beyond. their natural Inean-

STONE v. SOUTHERN ILLINOIS BRIDGE CO.
206 U. S.

267

Syllabus.

ing, and it does not require that they shall be restricted to less
than that.
The impossibility or difficulty of applying this law to the
operations of dredging, which upon the evidence, I think,
amounts to no more than that it would result in an inconvenience, which the defendants may readily avoid by refusing
to contract with the Government, is a consideration fit to be
addressed to Congress rather than to this court.
I am authorized to say that MR. JUSTICE HARLAN
MR. JUSTICE DAY concur in this dissent.

and

STONE v. SOUTHERN ILLINOIS AND MISSOURI
BRIDGE COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME *COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 253.

Argued March 24, 25, 1907.-Decided May 13, 1907,

Whether the statutes. of a State authorize the incorporation of a bridge
company to construct a bridge over a navigable river separating it from
another State; whether such statutes confer the right of eminent domain
on a corporation of another State, and whether such a corporation can
exercise therein powers other than those conferred by the State of its
creation, are all questions of state'law, involving no Federal questions,
and the rulings of the. highest court of the State are final and conclusive
upon this court.
The act of January 26, 1901, 31 Stat. 741, .having authorized the construction by. an Illinois corporation of a .bridge and approaches across the
Mississippi River, it is within the power' of one of the States within which
the bridge was. constructed to authorize extensions thereof and connections therewith necessary 'and proper to make it available for the use
contemplated by the statute, and although such extensions and connections were not within the plans and specifications of the bridge itself and
its approaches as approved by the Secretary of War, the condemnation
of land necessary for the bridge company to construct them is not in contrav'ention of § 9 of the act of March 3, 1899, 30 Stat. 1151, making it
unlawful to deviate in the construction of any bridge over navigable
waters from the plans approved by the Secretary of War.
194 Missouri, 175, affirmed.

