OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

206 U. S.

KANSAS v. COLORADO et al. DEFENDANTS, AND THE
UNITED STATES. INTERVENOR.
IN EQUITY.
No. 3, Original,. Argued December, 17, 18, 19, 20, 1906.-Decided May 13, 1007.

Kansas having brought in this court an original suit to restrain Colorado
and certain corporations organized under its laws from diverting the
water of the Arkansas River for ihe irrigation of-lands in Colorado,
thereby, as alleged, preventing the natural and customary flow of the
river into Kansas and through its territory, the United States filed an
intervening petition claiming a right to control the waters of the river
to aid in the reclamation of arid lands. It was not claimed that the
diversion of the waters tended to diminish the navigability of the river.
Held, that:
The Government of the United States is one of enumerated powers; that
it has no inherent powers of sovereignty; that the enumeration of the
powers granted is to be found in the Constitution of the United States, and
in that alone; that the manifest purpose of the Tenth Amendment to
the Constitution is to put beyond dispute the proposition that all powers
not granted are reserved to the people, and that if in the changes of the
years further powers ought to be possessed by Congress they must be
obtained by a new grant from the people. While Congress has general
legislative jurisdiction over the Territories and may control the flow of
waters in their streams, it has no power to control a like flow within the
limits of a State except to preserve -or improve the navigability of the
stream; that the full control over those waters is, subject to the exception
named, vested in the State. Hence the intervening. petition of the
United States is dismissed, without prejudice to any action which it may
see fit to take in respect to the use of the water for maintaining or improving the navigability of the river.
The controversy between the parties plaintiff and defendant is one of a
justiciable nature. By the Constitution the entire judicial power of the
United States is vested in its courts, specifically'included therein being
a grant to the Suprerhe Court of jurisdiction over controversies beween
two or more States.
In a qualified sense and to a limited extent the separate States are sovereign
and independent, and the relations between them partake something of
the nature of international law. This court in appropri ate cases enforces
the principles of that law, and in addition by its decisions of controversies
between two or more States is constructing what may not improperly
be called a body of interstate law.

KANSAS v. COLORADO.
206 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

In a suit brought by a State which recognizes the right of riparian proprietors to the use of flowing waters for purposes of irrigation, subject to
the condition of an equitable apportionment, against a State which affirms
a public right in flowing waters, it is not unreasonable to enforce against
the plaintiff its own local rule.
While from the testimony it is apparent that the diversion of the waters
of the Arkansas River by Colorado for purposes of irrigation does diminish the volume of water flowing into Kansas, yet it does not destroy
the entire flow. The benefit to Colorado in the reclamation of arid lands
has been great, and ought not lightly to be destroyed.
The detriment to Kansas by the diminution of the flow of the water, while
substantial, is not.so great as to make the appropriation of the part of the
water by Colorado an inequitable apportionment between the two States.
While a right to present relief is not proved and this suit is dismissed, it is
dismissed without prejudice to the right of Kansas to initiate new proceedings whenever it shall appear that through a material increase in the
depletion of the waters of the Arkansas River by the defendants, the
substantial interests of Kansas are being injured to the extent of destroying the equitable apportionment of benefits between the two States.

ON May 20, 1901, pursuant to a resolution passed by the
legislature of Kansas (Laws Kansas, 1901, chap. 425), and
upon leave obtained, the State of Kansas filed its bill in equity
in this court against the State of Colorado. To this bill the
defendant demurred. After argument on the demurrer this
court held that the case ought not to be disposed of on the
mere averments of the bill, and, therefore, overruled the demurrer without prejudice to any question defendant might
present. Leave was also given to answer. 185 U. S. 125.
In delivering the opinion of the court the Chief Justice disclosed in the following words the general character of the
controversy, and the conclusions arrived at (p. 145):
"The gravamen of the bill is that the State of Colorado, acting directly herself, as well as through private persons thereto
licensed, is depriving and threatening to deprive the State of
Kansas and its inhabitants of all the water heretofore accustomed to flow in the Arkansas River through its channel on
the surface, and through a subterranean course across the'Stato
of Kansas; that this is threatened not only by the impounding,
and the use of the water at the river's source, but as it flows

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

206 U. S.

after reaching the river. Injury, it is averred, is being, and
would be, thereby inflicted on the State of Kansas as an individual owner, and on all the inhabitants of the State, and
especially on the inhabitants of that part of the State lying
in the Arkansas'Valley. The injury is asserted to be threatened, and as being wrought, in respect of lands located on the
banks of the river; lands lying on the line of a subterranean
flow; and lands lying some distance from the river, either above
or below ground, but dependent on the river for a supply of
water. And it is insisted that Colorado in doing this is violating the fundamental principle 'that one must use his own so
as not to destroy the legal rights of another.
"The State of Kansas appeals to the rule of the common law
that owners of lands on the banks of a river are entitled to the
continual flow of the stream, and while she concedes that this
rulehas been modified in the Western States so that flowing
'water may be appropriated to mining purposes and for the
reclamation of arid lands, and the doctrine of prior appropriation obtains, yet she says that that modification has not gone
so far as to justify the destruction of the rights of other States
and their inhabitants altogether; and that the acts of Congress
of 1866 and subsequently, while recognizing the prior appropriation of water as in contravention of the common law rule
as to a continuous flow, have not attempted to recognize it as
rightful to that extent. In other words, Kansas contends that
Colorado cannot absolutely destroy her rights, and seeks some
mode of accommodation as between them, while she further
insists that she occupies, for reasons given, the position of a
prior appropriator herself, if put to that contention as between
her and Colorado.
"Sitting, as it were, as an international, as well as a domestic
tribunal, we apply Federal law, state law, and international
law, as the exigencies of the particular case may demand, and
we are unwilling, in this case, to proceed on the mere technical
admissions made by the demurrer. Nor do we regard it as
necessary, whatever inperfections a close analysis of the pend-

KANSAS v. COLORADO.
206 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

ing bill may disclose, to compel its amendment at this stage of
the litigation. We think proof should be made as to whether
Colorado is herself actually threatening to wholly exhaust the
flow of the Arkansas River in Kansas; whether what is described in the bill as the 'underflow' is a subterranean stream
flowing in a known and defined channel, and not merely water
percolating through the strata below; whether certain persons,
firms, and corporations in Colorado must be made parties
hereto; what lands in Kansas are actually situated on the
banks of the river, and what, either in Colorado or Kansas, are
absolutely dependent on water therefrom; the extent of the
watershed or the drainage area of the Arkansas River; the
possibilities of the maintenance of a sustained flow through
the control of flood waters; in short, the circumstances, a
variation in which might induce the court to either grant,
modify, or deny the relief sought or any part thereof."
On August 17, 1903, Kansas filed an amended bill, naming
as defendants Colorado and quite a number of corporations,
who were charged to be engaged in depleting the flow of water
in the Arkansas River. - Colorado and several of the corporations answered. For reasons which will be apparent from the
opinion the defenses of these corporations will not be considered apart from those of Colorado. On March 21, 1904, the
United States, upon leave, filed its petition of intervention.
The issue between these several parties having been perfected
by replications, a commissioner was appointed to take evidence, and after that had been taken and abstracts prepared
counsel for the respective parties were heard in, argument,
and upon the pleadings and testimony the case was submitted.
In order that the issue between the three principal parties,
Kansas, Colorado and the United States, may be fully disclosed-although by so doing we prolong considerably this
opinion-we quote abstracts of the pleadings and statements
thereof made by the respective counsel. Counsel for Kansas
say:
VOL. COVI-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

206 U. S.

"The bill of complaint alleges that the State of Kansas was
admitted into the .Union on January 29, 1861, that the State
of Colorado was admitted on August 1, 1876, and that the other
defendants are corporations organized, chartered and doing
business in the State of Colorado; that the Arkansas River
rises in the Rocky Mountains, in the State of Colorado, and,
flowing in a southeasterly direction for a distance of about
280 miles, crosses the boundary. into the State of Kansas; that
the river then flows in an easterly and southeasterly direction
through the State of Kansas for a distance of about 300 miles,
then through Oklahoma, Indian Territory and Arkansas, on its
way to the sea. Through the State of Kansas the Arkansas
Valley is a level plain but a few feet above the normal level of
the river, and is from two to twenty-five miles in width. Back
to the foot hills on either side there are bottom lands which
are saturated and sub-irrigated by the underflow from the
river, and are fertile and productive almost beyond comparison. The Arkansas River is a meandered stream through the
State of Kansas, and under the laws and departmental rules
and regulations of the United States it is a navigable river
through the State of Kansas, and was, in fact, navigable and
navigated from the city of Wichita south to its mouth; and
that the complainant is the owner of the bed of the stream
between the meandered lines, in trust for the people of the
State; that the complainant is the owner of two tracts of land
bordering upon the river, one at Hutchinson and one at Dodge
City, upon which state institutions are maintained-one as a
reform school and the other as a soldiers' home. That wheh
the State of Kansas was admitted into the Union it became
the owner for school purposes of sections 16 and 36 of each
Congressional township, of. which the complainant still owns
many thousand acres, much of which borders on the Arkansas
River. That by act of Congress of March 3, 1863, the coinplainant became the owner of each odd-numbered section of
land in the Arkansas Valley, and has since conveyed the whole
of this land for the purposes specified. That by the year 1868

KANSAS v. COLORADO.
206 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

the land in the Arkansas Valley began to be taken by actual
settlers, and by the year 1875 practically all the bottom lands
in the east or lower half of the valley were entered and settled,
and title- obtained from the United States or the State of
Kansas; and by the year 1882 the west or upper half of the
valley was so entered and settled and like titles obtained. By
the year 1873 a railroad was built through the entire length of
the valley, and immediately after their settlement these bottom
lands were extensively cultivated, large crops of agricultural
products were raised, towns and cities sprang up, population
rapidly increased, and by the year 1883 practically all the
bottom lands of the Arkansas Valley were in a state of successful and prosperous cultivation; that the waters of the Arkansas
River furnished the foundation for this prosperity. These
waters furnished a wholesome and ample supply for domestic
purposes, for the wat6ring of stock, for power for operating
mills and factories, for saturating and sub-irrigating the bottom
lands back to the uplands on either side of the river, so that
crops thereon were not only bounteous but practically certain,
and in the western portion of the valley these waters were
appropriated and used for surface irrigation, to supplant the
scanty rainfall in that region. That by reason of these uses
of the waters of the Arkansas River, and the almost unvarying
water level beneath these bottom lands being near the surface,
the lands in the Arkansas Valley in the State of Kansas were
of great and permanent value to the owners and settlers thereon,
and those upon the tax rolls of the State of Kansas yielded a
large and increasing revenue tQ the complainant for state
purposes.
"That after the lands in the Arkansas Valley had been settled
and raised to a high state of cultivation, all the bottom lands
in the valley being riparian lands and directly affected by the
presence and flow of the river, and after parts of the flow of the
river had been used for manufacturing and milling purposes,
and after the riparian lands had been largely and extensively
irrigated in the valley of the river in the western portion of

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

206 U. S.

Kansas, and after portions of the land so belonging to the
complainant had been sold and conveyed, the State of Colorado and other defendants began systematically appropriating
and diverting the waters of the Arkansas River, in the State
of Colorado, between Cafion City and the Kansas state line,
for the purpose of irrigating dry, barren, arid, non-riparian and
non-saturated lands lying on either side of the river, and often
many miles therefrom, and by the year 1891 all the natural
and normal waters and a large portion of the flood waters of
the Arkansas River were so appropriated and diverted and
actually applied to these dry, barren, arid, non-riparian and
non-saturated lands in the State of Colorado, said diversions
increasing from year to year, as their means of diversion became
more complete and perfect, so the average flow of the river
was greatly and permanently diminished and the normal flow
of the river, exclusive of floods, was wholly and permanently
destroyed, and navigability of the river where navigable before
has been ruined, the power for manufacturing purposes greatly
diminished, the surface of the underfiow beneath the bottom
lands has been lowered about five feet, and the water for the
irrigation ditches in the western part of Kansas has been entirely cut off. The loss sustained by the complainant and its
citizens has been great and incalculable. The benefits of river
navigation are gone; the cheap water power has been replaced
by the costly steam power; the productiveness and value of the
bottom lands have-been greatly diminished; the irrigation
ditches are left dry and the lands uncultivated, and the revenues
of the State of Kansas and its municipalities have -been materially decreased. Against this loss and injury the complainant
prays the assistance of this court."
In the brief of counsel for Colorado it is said:
"The -contention of the defendant, State of Colorado, as jo
the facts, may be concisely stated as follows: The Arkansas
River, popularly so called, is substantially two rivers, one a
perennial stream rising in the mountains of Colorado and flowing down to the plains, and. this Colorado Arkansas, when the

KANSAS v. COLORADO.
206 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

river was permitted to run as it was accustomed to run, prior
to the period of irrigation, poured into the sands of western
Kansas, and at times of low water the river as- a stream entirely disappeared. Its waters were to some extent evaporated,
and as to the residue, were absorbed and swallowed up in the
sands. So that from the vicinity, of the state line between
Kansas and Colorado on eastwardly, as far, at least, as Great
Bend, if not farther, at such times of low water there was no
flowing Arkansas River. Farther east, however, a new river
arose, even at such times of low water, and partly from springs,
partly from the drainage of the water table of the country
supplied by rainfall, and partly from the surface drainage of
an extensiVe territory, this river gradually again became a
perennial stream, so that south of Wichita, and from there on
to the mouth of the river, the Kansas Arkansas, as a new and
separate stream, had a constant flow. Such, as the river was
accustomed to flow, was the Arkansas of the period prior to
irrigation. It was a 'broken river.' It is true that at all
times in early years, and now, the Arkansas River at times
of flood, or of what might be called high water, has a continuous
flow from its source to its mouth, but a flow, even in times of
flood or high water, which diminishes through the sandy waste
east of the Colorado state line above described, so that often-:
times even a flood in Colorado would be completely lost before
it had passed over this arid stretch of sandy channel, and high
water would always be diminished in flow through the same
stretch of country. This river is as if it were a current of
water passing over a sieve; if the current be slow and the
volume not excessive, all of it sinks through the sieve and none
passes on beyond; when the current is rapid and the volume
is large, still a large amount sinks in the sieve, and the residue
passes on beyond.
"Now, the irrigators of Colorado have confined their actions
to the Colorado Arkansas above described. They have taken
the waters of the perennial stream before it reaches this sieve,
through which it wasted; they have lifted that stream out of

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

206 U. S.

the sandy channel in which it had flowed and applied it to
beneficial uses upon the land; carried the body of it along at a
higher level than where it was accustomed to run, and they
finally restore it, practically undiminished in volume, so far as
regards practical use, at points in the ancient channel farther
east than the river at low water was accustomed to flow before
the period of irrigation. The effect of the diversion of this
water in Colorado, the carrying of it forward'on a higher level,
the return of waters, partly through seepage and partly through
direct delivery at waste gates, and the effect of this process in
extending eastward the perennial flow, will be fully discussed
in the course of the argument to follow. It is sufficient in this
preliminary statement -to say that it is admitted by the complainant that in the course of a twelvemonth there is a vast
amount of high and flood waters of the Arkansas that are
never captured by man, that are of no use, but rather of injury
to Kansas riparian proprietors, and, so far as any beneficial use
is concerned, are absolutely wasted and lost. Kansas does not
claim that she has not abundance of water in times Qf flood
or in times of high water; her complaint is based upon the
alleged fact that she does not have what she was accustomed
to have in periods of low water, whereas, in fact, as contended
by the State of Colorado, the diversion of water in Colorado
into ditches and reservoirs, continuing, as it does, throughout
the year, in times of flood and in times of high water, has the
effect, through seepage and return waters, to give perennial
vitality to portions of this stream during what would otherwise
be periods of depression or suspension of flow."
The substance of the petition in intervention is thus stated
by counsel for the Government:
','The

first paragraph of the said petition describes the

Arkansas River from its source to its mouth, and alleges that
it is not navigable in the States of Qolorado and Kansas nor
the Territory of Oklahoma, but is navigable in the State of
Arkansas and the Indian Territory.
"In the second paragraph it is alleged that the lands located

KANSAS โข v. COLORADO.
206 U. S.

"

Statement of the Case.

within the watershed of the river west of the ninety-ninth
degree of longitude are arid lands.
"The third paragraph alleges that within said watershed
there are 1,000,000 acres of public lands that are uninhabitable
and unsalable.
"The fourth paragraph alleges that said lands can only be
made habitable, productive, and salable by impounding and
storing flood and other waters in said watershed to the end that
the said waters may be used to reclaim said land.
"The fifth paragraph alleges that. there is not sufficient
moisture from rainfall to render the soil capable of.producing
crops in paying quantities in the- watershed so described, and
that they can only be made to produce crops by irrigation;
that the common law doctrine of riparian rights is not applicable to conditions in the atrid region and has been abolished
by statute and'by usage and custom; that there has been established in its stead in said region a doctrine to the effect that the
waters of natural streams and the flood-and other waters may.
be impounded, appropriatea, div~rted, and used for the purpose
of reclaiming and irrigating the arid land' therein, and that
the prior appropriation of such'.waters for such purpose gives
a prior and superior right to the water of the stream.
"The sixth paragraph alleges that legislation of Congress,
decisions of courts, and acts of the executive department have
sanctioned and approved the use of water for irrigation purposes in the arid region and that he who is prior in time is prior
in right, and that it is recognized tthat the common-law-doctrine
of riparian rights is not applicable to the public land owned
by the United States in the arid region.
"The seventh paragraph alleges that in accordance with and
in reliance upon the doctrine of the use of water for irrigation
purposes the inhabitants of the arid portion of the United
States have appropriated and used the waters of streams
therein to reclaim and make productive and profitable about
10,000,000 acres of land, which now support a population of
many millions, and that the inhabitants of Colorado and Kansaa

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Cae.

206 U. S.

within the watershed of the Arkansas River have by irrigation
from said river made productive and profitable about 200,000
acres of land, which provide homes for and support a population of many thousands.
"The eighth paragraph alleges that the common law doctrine
of riparian rights is not applicable to riparian lands within the
arid region, and that only by the use of waters of natural
streams and flood waters for irrigation and other beneficial
purposes can the lands in the arid region be made productive,
and only by such use can additional areas be reclaimed and
rendered productive and salable.
"The ninth paragraph recites the passage of the so-called
reclamation act of June 17, 1902.
"The tenth paragraph alleges that about 60,000,000 acres
of land belonging to the United States within the arid region
can be reclaimed under the provisions of the so-called -reclamation act.
"The eleventh paragraph alleges that the amount of land
that can be so reclaimed will support a population of many
millions.
"The twelfth paragraph alleges that under the operation of
the said reclamation act 100,000 acres of public land can be
reclaimed within the watershed of the Arkansas River west of
the ninety-ninth degree west.
"The thirteenth paragraph alleges that the lands when so
reclaimed will support a population of not less than 50,000.
"The fourteenth paragraph alleges that under the operation
of the so-called reclamation act about $1,000,000 has been
expended in exploring, procuring, and setting apart sites upon
which reservoirs and dams contemplated by the act can bp
constructed and maintained; that contracts have been let for
the construction of reservoirs, which, when completed, will
cost over two millions and will have a storage capacity to
reclaim 500,000 acres of arid land, which land when reclaimed
will sustain a population of not less than 250,000; that plans
are contemplated for the expenditure of $20,000,000 under

KANSAS v. COLORADO.
206 U. S.

Argument for Complainant.

said act, to irrigate about 1,000,000 acres of arid public
lands.
"The fifteenth paragraph recites that there are $16,000,000
available under the so-called reclamation act.
"The sixteenth paragraph sets forth the contention of
Kansas as seen in its amended bill of complaint, viz., that it
is entitled to have the waters of the Arkansas River, which
rises in Colorado, flow uninterrupted and unimpeded into
Kansas.
"The seventeenth paragraph sets forth the contention of
Colorado in respect to its claim of ownership, viz., that under
the provisions of its constitution it is the owner of all waters
within that State.
"The eighteenth paragraph is as follows:
" 'That neither the contention of the State of Colorado nor
the contention of the State of Kansas is correct; nor does either
contention accord with the doctrine prevailing in the arid
region in respect to the waters of natural streams and of flood
and other waters. That either contention, if sustained, would
defeat the object, intent, and purpose of the reclamation act,
prevent the settlement and sale of the arid lands belonging
to the United States, and especially those within the watershed
of the Arkansas River west of the ninety-ninth degree west
longitude, and would otherwise work great damage to the interests of the United States.' "
Mr. C. C. Coleman, Attorney General of the State of Kansas,
Mr. S. S. Ashbaugh, Mr. N. H. Loomis and Mr. F. Dumont
Smith for complainant:
The State of Kansas may maintain this suit, first, by virtue
of its own sovereignty; second, as -the owner of the bed of the
Arkansas River; third, as the owner of riparian lands in the
Arkansas Valley; fourth, as parens patrie, guardian, or trustee,
for any considerable portion of its territory or citizens affected
by any unlawful diversion of the waters of the river; and fifth,
because its revenue derived from taxation has been directly

OCTOBER TERM, 1906..
Argument for Complainant.

dinminished by such diversion.

206 U. S.

Such cause is justiciable in

this court, the defendants are each necessary and proper
parties, and this court has jurisdiction and power to grant
relief.
The jurisdiction of this court-over the cause of action was
exhaustively argued upon the demurrer, and was then practically decided, I85 U. S. 125.
The State of Kansas appears in all of its capacities known
to the law, and alleges and has proved that its injuries have
been brought about directly by the defendants named in the
amended bill. One of these defendants is the State of Colorado,
and the co-defendants are corporations and citizens -of the
State of Colorado. Thus, within the language of the Constitution, the court has original jurisdiction of the parties, and,
because of the facts alleged and proved, the court has also
jurisdiction of the subject-matter of the controversy.
The common law, including the doctrine of riparian rights
as therein formulated, embraced the whole territgry involved
in this controversy down to August 1, 1876, when Colorado
became a State. Many of the rights herein claimed became
vested in the complainant arid in those for whom it sues before
that date, and all the rights claimied were prior and vested
before the injuries complained of, and all ripened into a rule of"
property, and could not be changed or diyested by subsequent
customs or enactments in Colorado without the consent of
the vested owners of those rights. Clark v.Allaman, 80 Pao.
Rep. 571.
The court will take judicial, notice of the settlement and
development of Kansas; and that, prior, to 1868 its territory
had become occupied, its lands 'had .been-established, and its
institutions had become fixed. It 'must be also admitted that
prior to 1868 the rule of the common-law as to riparian rights
in Kansas prevailed in all its vigor, and -without any qualification whatever.
Kansas is a common law State so far as the doctrine of
riparian rights is concerned, but, like the States of California,

KANSAS v. COLORADO.
206 U. S.

Argument for Complainant.

Oregon, Washington, North and South Dakota, Nebraska,
and Texas, has adopted a rule that will allow the largest
development of its territory consistent with the rights of all
its citizens.
Riparian ownership does not depend upon geographical
lines, nor political subdivisions of land. Riparian lands, according. to these authorities, are such as are directly affected
by the presence of the river. The level of the underflow
corresponds with the level of the water in the river back to
the uplands, and, according to this rule every acre of land in
the Arkansas Valley is riparian land, bought, sold, cultivated
and its value fixed according to the volume of water in the
river, and every principle of common law makes these lands
riparian to the Arkansas River, and their owners riparian proprietors. Kansas insists upon the preservation of the doctrine
of riparian rights within its own territory, but does not insist
that the doctrine of riparian rights shall be extended over
the territory of any arid State Where its presence would not
be suitable, and - where its existence has been abrogated by
the Constitution, the laws, and judicial decisions.
The defendants do not appear in this case, either in their
answers or in the evidence adduced by them, as riparian
owners along the Arkansas.River, having full riparian rights
and demanding a reasonable and equal amount of these waters
under the-common law doctrine. They appear with a different
system; under different laws, upon a different basis, using the
water for a different purpose, all subsequent to the prior
rights of the State of Kansas and its citizens, demanding the
right to take the whole of the flow of the river and actually
appropriating and using it all. They plead the new system
of taking the water out and away from the river and putting
it upon dry and arid lands, many miles from the river itself,
and on land that never felt -the effects of the river before, and
on lands of which the waters of the river were never part nor
parcel, and all this was done subsequent to the vesting of the
prior rights in the State of Kansas and its citizens, and re-

80

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Complainant.

206 U. S.

suiting in the injuries hereinbefore enumerated. Thus, the
common law rights of Kansas and its citizens have been invaded by a subsequent and different system, framed upon a
different theory, and built upon a different basis, and in a
different State. These defendants now claim that they should
be protected in their different and subsequent systems because
they live and operate on the other side of the state line.
The right of the complainant and those for whom it sues is
a right to the usual and normal flow of the river "as it was
accustomed to run" during. ordinary years prior to the unlawful diversion complained of, and exclusive of - floods and
unusual high waters.
The right of a riparian owner to the flow of the stream
"as it is accustomed to run" in our judgment does not include
extraordinary high waters, or floods, or times of unusual
drought and low water. The words "as it is accustomed to
run" mean in our judgment the normal or usual flow of the
river from year to year. In the case of the Arkansas River
this is not at all difficult to define. Let us illustrate. Before
the unlawful diversion by Colorado there was always a season
of high water in June, known as the June rise, caused by the
melting snows in the mountains and foot-hills of Colorado,
which gradually swelled the current until it was about bank
full, at which stage it ran from four to six weeks, from whence
it gradually subsided to its normal summer flow. This June
rise was as regular as the recurrence of the seasons, not-only
in time but in volume. It was a part, in short, of the normal
flow of the river, as distinguished from the extraordinary
floods caused by unusual rainfall either in the mountains or
uplands of Colorado or along the tributaries of the river in
that State. Our contention is that the June rise was part of
the normal flow of the river to -which the riparian owners in
Kansas were entitled. It fulfilled a great purpose in the
economy of the Arkansas Valley in Kansas, filling the river from
bank to bank, raising the water-level to a point where the
pressure of the water was sufficient to bear in every direction.

KANSAS v. COLORADO.
U.S.
L06

Argument for Oomplainant.

The underflow of the Arkansas River in Kansas is a welldefined subterranean stream, distinct from under-ground or
percolating waters, the right to which vests in the owner of
the surface, and its unlawful diversion, deprivation or diminution is a substantial wrong, for which equity will grant relief.
The use of the water of the river for water power at Arkansas
City became a vested right, and as to that right the'subsequent
diversion of the water by Colorado, decreasing if not wholly
destroying such water power, is a continuing wrong which
equity will enjoin. The water-power company at Arkansas
City used the water of the river for power purposes under the
authority of the common law, turning the water back into the
Arkansas River after its use. The rights that were built up
between the years 1881 and 1890 were property rights under
the doctrine of the common law authorizing the diversion of
the waters of the stream for these purposes. Kimberly v.
Hewitt, 75 Wisconsin,- 374; Union Water Power Co. v. Auburn,
90-Maine, 65. The right to use water of a river for furnishing
power, without diminution of its flow is a riparian right which
attaches to the land. It vests in the ownership of the land,
anid as such it cannot be injuriously affected by the upper
riparian owner, as has been done in this case by the diversion
of the water in Colorado.
The rights of Kansas and those for whom it sues accrued
and were vested prior to the existence of Colorado as a State.
When, on August 1, 1876, the territory of Colorado was erected
into one of the States of the Union and became a political
sovereignty, a greater portion of the Arkansas valley had been
settled. They had settled upon and bought their lands from
the Government and other settlers because of the flow of the
Arkansas River, because of the great advantages to be found
in this valley, that are set forth in our testimony. They
bought under the common law, which attached to all of this
territory, and fixed and defined the rights of every landowner
from Arkansas City to the Rocky Mountains. These rights
so acquired were as sacred to each of these owners as the right

62

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for the State of Colorado.

206 U. S.

to life or liberty. No court, no State nor the Federal Government, could in any wise impair those rights. 1 Farnham on
Waters and Water Rights, p. 29; Pine v. New York, 112 Fed.
Rep. 98; Holyoke Water Co. v. River Co., 22 Blatchf. 131; S. C.,
20 Fed. Rep. 71; Ruz v. St. Louis, 7 Fed. Rep. 438; Howell v.
Johnson, 89 Fed. Rep. 556; Hoge v. Eaton, 135 Fed. Rep. 411;
4 Am. Law Register, 385.
Mr. N. C. Miller, Attorney General of the State of Colorado,
Mr. Joel F. Vaile and Mr. Clyde C. Dawson, with whom
Mr. Charles D. Hayt, Mr. Platt Rogers, Mr. C. W. Waterman,
Mr. F. E. Gregg, Mr. W. R. Ramsey and Mr. I. B. Melville
were on the brief, for the State of Colorado:
The Arkansas River, ut currere solebat, has always been an
intermittent stream, and, in times of low water, has been a
"broken river."
From the earliest times the Arkansas River through Western
Kansas has been merely a bed of sand, with practically no
flowing water during a large part of the year, and this strip
of bare sand bed separates the perennial Arkansas of Southern
Kansas from the perennial Arkansas of Colorado during all
times of low water, making a "broken river." This fact is so
thoroughly established by written history and oral testimony
as to preclude any possible refutation.
The diversion and use of the waters of the ColoradoArkansas
have not diminished the "low water" flow of the river in Kansas.
The diversion and use of the waters of the Colorado Arkansas
have not diminished the so-called "underflow" in the Arkansas valley in Kansas.
The diversion and use of the waters of the Colorado Arkansas
have not caused the bed of the stream in Kansas to be narrowed, nor islands to form therein, nor the dangers from flood
to increase.
Colorado, relying upon its right to utilize the waters of its
natural streams upon adjacent lands, has converted arid and

KANSAS v. COLORADO.
206 U. S.

Argument for the State of Colorado.

uninhabited wastes into populous districts, with productive
farms and thriving towns and industries.
Colorado is essentially an arid State, and, except in isolated
places, irrigation is absolutely necessary to the successful
cultivation of the -land.
Even if Kansas possesses riparian rights to the full extent
claimed by her, yet she has no right of action in the absence
of injury, inflicted or threatened.
The evidence has been taken. We respectfully insist that
absolutely no injury has been shown. This is not even a case of
damnum absque inJuria, because we may fairly say that no
damage has been proved to result in the slightest degree from
Colorado irrigation in any 'of the particulars alleged in the
'amended bill. See Missouriv. Illinois, 200 U. S.496.
The owners of lands bordering on the Arkansas River in
Kansas have no vested rights in the Arkansas River which
complainant as parens patrix can assert against the defendants.
Angell on Watercourses, 7th ed., ยง 5; Tyler v. Wilkinson,
4 Mason, 397; Tomlin v. Dubuque, &c. R. R. Co., 32 Iowa,
106; People v. Appraisers, 33 N. Y. 461; Wood v. Fowler,
26 Kansas, 682; Crawford v. Hathaway, 93 N. W. Rep.
781.
Under the principles of the common law which have resulted
in the doctrine of "riparian rights," the inhabitants of arid
lands along the upper reaches of the Arkansas Riv-er have a
prior right ex jure naturae to the beneficial use of its water to
the full extent required for their adequate sustenance and
welfare. Riparian rights at common law include the right
to irrigate riparian lands. Clark v. Allaman, 80 Pac. Rep.
571, 584; Crawford Co. v. Hathaway (Neb.), 93 N. W. Rep.
781; S. C., Crawford Co. v. Hall (Neb.), 60 L. R. A. 889,
897; Weston v. Alden, 8 Massachusetts, 135, 136. See also
Anthony v. Lapham, 5 Pick. 175; Elliott v. Fitchburg R. R. Co.,
10 Cush. 191, 194; Hazeltine v. Case, 46 Wisconsin, 391, 394;
Evans v. Merriweather, 3 Scam. (Ill.) 492, 496; Wadsworth
v. Tillotson, 15 Connecticut, 366; Rhodes v. Whitehead, 27 Texas,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for the United States.

206 U. S.

304, 310; 30 Am. & Eng,-Enc. of Law, 2d ed. (b), 358, and
authorities cited in Note 1, 359.
To hold that under given conditions the natural wants of
man may justify him in diverting a watercourse for the irrigation of his arid lands is not a departure from the common
law. It is a question of the proper application of the principles
of the common law. The common law recognizes clearly the
right to irrigate as a riparian right. The question of the rank
of that right as compared with other uses is a question to be
determined by circumstances and conditions, and the necessities of humanity. The common law, by its very nature,
and the principles which compose it, looks to these special
circumstances to determine the scope and limitation of a
general rule when applied to a particular case. Many authorities say that in America we have adopted the common
law of England, only so far as it is suited to the conditions
and wants of our people, even though the expressed letter
of the statutory adoption may be more strongly expressed.
All such statements of the rule sustain also the doctrine that
in construing the common law as to its application, we should,
within the reasonable limits of the general principles involved,
be guided by the conditions and wants of the people. Van
Ness v. Pacard.2 Pet. 137, 144, 145; Wheaton et al. v. Peters
et al., 8 Pet. 591, 659.
In view of the condition -and wants of the people of the arid
section of the United States, the use of water in the irrigation
of lands takes the rank of a necessary use, affected by the same
rules as apply to other necessary uses of humanity as recognized
by the common law.
The Solicitor General, Mr. Assistant Attorney General Campbell and Mr. A. C. Campbell, with whom The Attorney General
was on the brief, for the United States:
. The United States does not agree with either State. Their
powers of internal police are exhausted at the boundary, and
yet the effects are claimed to pass beyond. There is a con-

KANSAS v. COLORADO.
206 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

flict which only the national sovereignty is competent to
settle.
Assuming that there is power somewhere outside the two
States to adjust the dispute, the principle of law to be found
and applied will inaugurate a new law of waters on interstate
on main streams which actually cross state
streams-that is,
lines. The strict common law rule of riparian rights cannot
control this new law for the arid region. The common law
would not be the pervading and permanent institution which
it is if it had not contained the seeds of growth and free development; not to break down constitutions and laws, but to
adapt them to new times, places and conditions. Hurtado v.
California, 110 U. S.516, 531; Woodman v. Pitman, 79 Maine,
456.
Irrigation was always a common law use, and a "new
combination" of the common law is taking shape here, because
the doctrine of reasonable use. is qualifying the unrelieved
common law rule. 'In Clark v. Nash, 198 U. S.361, 370, the
court apprbved the idea of an evolution of law to meet the new
coriditions and necessities of irrigation.
In Wyoming, under a clause in her constitution, similar to
the Colorado law, it-is not now maintained that'the upper State
can take all the water of an' interstate stream regardless of
prior appropriators inthe lower State. The claim means in
the last analysis the right to make war, which with, the right
of :compact Was surrendered by the States. The very fact
that the controversy is jdsticiable here is proof that Colorado,
cannot do as she sees fit witlout accuntability. She is a
sovereign State of this Union, but, not a sovereign nation.
There is a higher sovereignty.' "All the States have transferred the decision of their controversies.to this court." Rhode
Island v. Massachusetts, 12 Pet. 743.
The fundamental question is whether power exists anywhere to compose this dispute. This court is a branch of the
sovereign power of the Nation. It has taken jurisdiction of
such controversies between States under its constitutional
VOL. CCVI-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for- the United States.

206 U. S.

grant of authority, and has acted upon them with conclusive
effect. The people rest confidently on the power and competence of the court always to adjust any controversy between
States coming within its jurisdiction as defined by the Constitution and statutes. But the court is not a legislature.
Beneath the judicial jurisdiction, and controlling it, there
appears always the inquiry as to the basis in power and competence for national intervention in any form.
In Missouri v. Illinois, 200 U. S. 496, the scope
of the de-was
intimated
as to
carefully
restricted;
nothing
cision was
Federal power in such a controversy; but it is noted that
Congress hud not acted on the matter, and an obvious inference
is that the sovereign power of Congress as well as the sovereign
power of this court might deal with such a controversy.
Commerce is intercourse; the word imports intercourse in the
broadest sense. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 189. That is
the tendency of later decisions of the court following Marshall's
definition. The word in its wide signification means all sorts
of communications and correspondences, dealings, comminglings and interchanges. Commerce is not restricted to tride
and traffic, or navigation or transportation; no one can now
say definitely what movements and interactions across state
lines may not be embraced within its meaning. When to the
power over interstate commerce, so regarded, the powers
necessary to carry that power into effect are added, it may
well be that conflicting irrigation rights between two States
on the waters of a stream passing from one State to another
involve the power over interstate commerce. Water is sold
for irrigation and flows downstream and along ditches to the
point of delivery.
But assuming for the purpose of argument, without at all
conceding, that this case does not clearly fall within an enumerated power and the implied powers necessary to effectuate
it, there is the doctrine of sovereign and inherent power. Advancing that doctrine may seem to challenge great decisions
of the court, butit is more than a theory. It is well recognized.

KANSAS v. COLORADO.
206 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

It is indeed established, although its full development is of
recent date; and in clear and concrete form it has perhaps only
been applied once. And first it must be said, that there is no
sharp line between implied powers and inherent powers. The
expansion of implied powers and the existence of inherent
powers lie close together.
"This Government is acknowledged by all to be one of
enumerated powers." Marshall in McCulloch v.- Maryland,
4 Wheat. 405. "The Government, then, of the United States
can claim no powers which are not. granted to it by the Constitution, and the powers actually granted must be such as are
expressly given or given by necessary implication." Story in
Martin v. Hunter's Lessee, 1 Wheat. 326. "The Government
of the United States is one of delegated, limited, and enumerated powers." United States v. Harris,106 U. S.635. Yet
Marshall also said in the same passage: "But the question respecting the extent of the powers actually granted is perpetually
arising and will probably continue to arise as long as our system
shall exist." And Story said it could not be foreseen what
.new changes and modifications of power might be indispensable
to effectuate the general objects of. the charter; and restrictions and specifications which at the 'present might seem
salutary might in the end prove the overthrow of the system
itself. Hence its powers are expressed in general terms. Martin
v. Hunter, supra. See Marshall, Ch. J., in Gibbons v. Odgen,
9 Wheat. 195, and Mr. Justice Wilson in his speech at the Pennsylvania Constitutional Convention of 1787, 1 Andrews' "Works
of James Wilson," 533. Congress has often exercised, without
question, powers that are not expressly given nor ancillary to
any single enumerated power, but which are resulting powers
arising from the aggregate powers of the Government. Second
Legal Tender Cases, 12 Wall. 457, 534; and see also 110 U. S.
421.
There can be no more obvious and necessary occasion for
invoking the doctrine of inherent sovereignty and of implied
powers (resting on Chief Justice Marshall's reasoning) than

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for the United States.

206 U. S.

where there is a. conflict of law and interest between two or
more States. The "resulting powers" of Judge Story would
most properly take effect there.
Whatever the particular matter of internal police may be,
the respective "rights" or jurisdiction involved, whether
Federal or state, should be measured by the test whether
they concern only the rights of a State or its citizens within a
State, or affect other States and their citizcns and the citizens
of the United States in general. The power of a State is restricted t6 its own organism and function as a separate entity
of government.
Where 8tate antagonism to another State or the Nation
begins, the state sovereignty ends, and that is at just the
point whore the matters of exclusive .regulation within the
state boundaries, the things done by or in the State, tend
to pass over into the other. limited sovereignties, and then
the exclusive power, the resetved power, falls, or rather stops.
The, problem, then, does not involve the taking away prerogatives from a State wholly operating within its own confines, but only involves the taking up these prerogatives at
the state lines and supplementing them by national co6peration
or control so as to amalgamate or reconcile the separate forces.
There is a gap -and vacancy of sovereignty somewhere if the
sovereign and inherent power of one State is restricted to its
own territory (which of course it is), and there is no sovereign
and inherent power in the Nation to regulate where the powers.
of two or more States overlap, and so clash, and injurei-each
other and the aggregate interests. This, entails no loss of
powers reserved to the States; if it does we are in a vise-both
the States and the Nation powerless at the very point where
competent power is most essential.
This element' of sovereign power was never reserved to the
Statesi In the ;nature of things it could not have been, being
the .power to restrain the-state authority when by its necessary
effect it passed beyond its own borders. This was the very
pretension, or the very danger, rather, which all the States

KANSAS v. COLORADO.
206 U. S.

Argument'for the United States.

wished to put down in order that one State should not become
prepotent. "Would the people of any one State trust those
of another with a power to control the most insignificant
operations of their state government? We know they would
not." McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 431.
Would Federal administration and control of irrigation on
interstate streams, subject to regard for the different state
laws as directed by Congress, and always subject to the power
and jurisdiction of this court to pass upon interstate controversies, encroach in anyrespect wpon the powers reserved
to the States or the people? The powers reserved to the
States are powers confined wholly to their respective borders.
The powers reserved to the people relate to possible encroachments on their personal and-individual rights of life, liberty,
and the pursuit of happiness. At least the language of the
Tenth Amendment cannot reasonably mean that the underlying sovereignty of the people has thereby withheld from
the sovereignty which they have created an essential branch
of national power without which the Government is not completely sovereign within its sphere-essential because neither
the separate States nor the people at large can deal with it
-effectively or indeed at all. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat.
406. The function and power of the Government,. on the
legislative and executive side, in reference to the distribution
of the flow of the Arkansas River, are involved in this case.
The decree should embrace in terms or in effect a recognition of the national. law and of the Government's right to
direct the matter of water distribution on this non-navigable
interstate stream.
The great principle here and whenever it is a question of
conflict between States or between a State and the Nation is
that the Constitution and the laws made in pursuance thereof
are supreme; that they control the constitution and laws of
the respective States, and cannot be controlled by them.
The powers of Congress are not given by the people of a single
State; they are given by the people of the United States to a

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for the United States.

206 U. S.

Government whose laws, made in pursuance of the Constitution, are declared to be supreme. Consequently, the people
of a single State cannot confer a sovereignty which will extend
over them. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 426, 429.
As to the particular facts involved, the petition for intervention alleged, and the evidence shows, that within the watershed of the -Arkansas River in Colorado and Kansas there are
about one hundred thousand acres of public arid land, which
can only be reclaimed and made habitable by the application
thereto of the waters of said stream; that in the arid region of
the United States from sixty million to one hundred and fifty
million acres of public land now valueless and uninhabited may
be reclaimed by irrigation and made to sustain a population
of one hundred million persons; that within the forty-seven
Indian reservations within the arid region, which reservations
aggregate forty-eight million acres, there are located about
one hundred and sixteen thousand Indians; that to support
them it is necessary to irrigate lands within the reservation;
and that the Government is assisting the Indians in reclaiming
them.
That over ten million acres of land originally arid have
already been reclaimed by irrigation at a cost of over two
hundred million dollars, and are greater in extent than all the
cultivated lands within the New England States. That these
lands and improvements are worth not less than five hundred
million dollars and support directly and indirectly over five
million persons'. Of these ten million acres, at least two million
are in the State of Colorado, and they are capable of raising
crops of the value of over forty million dollars annually.
Within the watershed of the Arkansas River in Colorado there
are over three hundred thousand acres of irrigated land, and
in the same watershed in Kansas, about thirty thousand acres.
The relief sought by complainant would require a decree
of the court, the principle of which if enforced would be to
prevent the reclamation and cultivation of any of the public
lands within the arid belt and have the effect of Teturning to

KANSAS v. COLORADO.206 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

their original condition lands which have already been reclaimed. A decree sustaining Colorado's .-contention to the
effect that it has "plenary and exclusive right and power to
control and regulate the use of non-navigable streams within
its boundaries," whether state or interstate, would have the
effect, if the doctrine on which it was based was enforced,
of measureably limiting the amount of arid lands which would
otherwise be reclaimed. In view of these facts, and the further
fact that the Government by the, so-called Reclamation Act
of June 17, 1902, 32 Stats. 388, had adopted a-s cheme to reclaim its arid lands by irrigation, its interests will undoubtedly
be affected one way or the other, by any decree- or judgmentof the court. Hence'it has the right to intervene and-be heard
"before the judgment is giveh," although it is not to be recognized as a party to the suit, in a technical sense, or entitled
to any decree in its favor. Florida V. Georgia,.1-7 How. 478,
495.
has
As intervenor, the Government admits that the
jurisdiction of the subject matter of. the action. It denies
that Kansas owns th6 bod of the river in said State. It-contends that only the shores and beds of navigable waters are
reserved to the State by the Federal Constitution, and that
within the definition of -avigable waters, as set forth in the
case of The Daniel Ball, 10 Wall. 557, 563, and approved
in the cases of The Montello, 20 Wall. 430, 439; Escanaba
Company v. Chicago, 107 U.. S.678, 682; Miller v. New York,
109 U. S.385, 395; Packer v. Bird, 137 U. S.661, 666;. Leovy
v. United States, 177-U. S.621; Wood..v. Fowler, 26 Kansas,
682; and Farnum -on Waters, 67; the Arkansas River is not
navigable in Kansas, hence the abutting owners on the stream
when they obtained title- from the Government, also acquired
title to its bed. See Railroad Co. v. Schurmeir, 7 Wall. 272,
286, 287; Whittaker v. McBride, 197 U. S.510; Indianav. Milk,
11 Fed. Rep. 389; Steinbuchel v. Lane, 59 Kansas, 7; ยง2476,
Rev. Stats.
The evidence shows thatthe use of the waters of the stream
-court

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for the United States.:

206 U. S.

in Colorado for irrigation purposes has not -interfered with
its navigable capacity where, navigation is a iecognized fact,
hence no duty devolves upon the intervenor to aid complainant in securing a decree to enjoin Colorado from using
the waters to the end that navigation be protected and preserved. United States v. Rio Grande Dam & Irrigation Co.,
174 U. S. 690, 709.
It is indispensable to the future growth and prosperity of
the Nation that the public arid lands be reclaimed and cultivated. "Man and the Earth," by Shaler, 73,,74, 120; "Water
and Water Rights," 3 Farnum, 1895a. And public policy,
which is but the manifest will of the people of the Nation, and
which is seen in public acts, legislative, executive and judicial,
and which varies with the habits, capacities, opportunities
and needs of the people, recognizes that the arid lands in the
largest measure possible should be reclaimed, settled and
cultivated. Wakefield v. Van Tassell, 66 N: E. Rep. 830;
Lux v. Haggin, 10 Pac. Rep. 674, 702; Giant Powder Company
v. Oregon &c., 42 Fed. Rep. 470, 474; Jacoby v. Denton, 25
Arkansas, 625, 634; St. Louis Mining Company v. Montana,
171 U. S. 650, 655. See acts of July 26, 1866, 14 Stats. 253;
July 9, 1870, 17 Stats. 218; March 3, 1877, 19 Stats. 377;
March 3, 1891, 26 Stats. 1096, 1101; August 4,1894, 28 Stats.
422, sec. 4; June 17, 1902, 32 Stats. 388; also Executive Messages, Cong. Rec., 57th Cong., 1st sess., vol. 35, pp. 85, 86; 2d
sess., vol. 36, p. 11; 58th Congress, 2d sess., vol. 38, p. 7, vol. 39,
p. 14; and 59th Cong., vol.40, p. 100; also Atchison v. Petersen,
20 Wall. 507, 513; Basey v. Gallagher, 20 Wall. 670, 681, 682;
Tartar v. Spring Creek Co., 5 California, 397; Jennison v. Kirk,
98 U. S. 453, 460; Broder v. Water Company, 101 U. S.274,
276; Fallbrook Irrigation District v. Bradley, 164 U. S. 112;
United States v. Rio Grande Co., 174 U. S.690; Gutierresv. Albuquerque L. & I. Co.,188 U. S.545; Clark v. Nash, 198 U. S.361.
Under the strict common law doctrine of riparian rights a
riparian owner is entitled to have the stream come to him in
its natural state in flow, quantity and quality, and it must go

KANSAS v. COLORADO.'
206 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

from his land in like manner, unobstructed in its passage. Col.
Law Review, No. 8, p. 505. He has a natural and equal right
to the use of the water in the stream adjacent to his land
without diminution or alteration. He only can employ or
suffer the employment of the waters for any purpose. Lux v.
Haggin, 10 Pac. Rep. 674, 755. The California doctrine perrnits a reasonable use of the Water of a stream to irrigate
riparian lands. What is a reasonable use and what are riparian
lands have never been clearly defined by the courts which
have approved this doctrine. Upon neither question can the
decisions of the courts be harmonized or reconciled. See Lux v.
Haggin, supra; Gould v..Eaton, 117 California, 539; Katz v.
Walkinshaw, 70 California, 663 and 74 California, 735; Crawford v. Hathaway, supra, and Clark v. Alleman, 80 Pac. Rep.
571; Irrigation Institutions (Mead), 322, 323. The common
law doctrine of riparian rights does not exist in Colorado. The
doctrine which has'been established there is that of appropriation of the waters of streams and the application of the
same to beneficial use. See Colorado Constitution, art. 16,
sec. 5; Coffin v. Left Hand Ditch Co., 6 Colorado, 443, 447.
A State has the right to change the common law rule in respect
to the waters of streams within its boundaries, subject to the
following limitations: First. That in the absence of specific
authority from Congress a State cannot by its legislation destroy the right of the United States, as the owner of lands
bordering on a stream, to the continued flow of its waters; so
far at least as may be necessary for the beneficial use of the
Second. That it is limited by the
government property.
superior power of the General Government to secure the uninterrupted navigability of all navigable streams within the
limits of the United States. United States v. Rio Grande, &c.
Co., supra, p. 703. In Kansas the California doctrine prevails.
Clark v. Allaman, supra. The doctrine which has been established in Colorado and the doctrine which seems to prevail
in Kansas are in conflict with each other and both cannot be
enforced in respect to the waters of the Arkansas River.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for the United States.

206 U. S.

Stowell v. Johnson, 26 Pac. Rep. 290; Works on Irrigation, 17:

-

The evidence clearly establishes the proposition that the
application of either the strict common law doctrine of riparian rights or: the so-called California doctrine to the waters
of streams in the arid region, state or interstate, would have
the result of preventing the- reclamation and cultivation of
-public arid lands and defeat the policy of the Government
with respect thereto and would-obstruct the administration
of the so-called Reclamation Act of June 17, 1902. The evidence further shows that should it be held as contended for
by Colorado that a State by reason of its sovereignty has absolute control of and dominion over the waters of an interstate
stream while the same are within its boundaries the ultimate
effect would be in large measure to prevent the reclamation
and cultivation of the public arid lands. But irrespective of
the effect of such doctrine the same is untenable as a matter
of law. New Hampshire v. Louisiana et' al., 108 U. S. 76, 90;
Pine v. New York City, 112 Fed. Rep. 98; S. C., 185 U. S. 93;
Howell v. Johnson, 89 Fed. Rep. 556; Perkins v. Groff, 114
Fed. Rep, 441; Morris v. Bean, 123 Fed, Rep. 618; S. C., 146
Fed. Rep. 423; Miller & Lux v. Rickey, 127 Fed. Rep. 573;
Anderson v. Bassman, 140 Fed. Rep. 10; Willey v. Decker,
73 Pac. Rep. 210.
'Each State has certain rights to the waters of an interstate
stream. The right of either cannot be destroyed by the
other. Manifestly the law of neither State extends beyond
its boundaries. NeitherColorado nor any of its citizens can by
legal proceedings in Kansas acquire the, right to appropriate
the waters of a stream in Colorado. Pine v. New York
City, 185 U. S. 105. When, therefore, a dispute arises in
respect to 'thewaters of an interstate stream, such as involved
in the present proceeding, the question to be determined is,
What rule of law shall.be applied, 'and what- tribunal has the
power to enforce the rule? The Government contends that
this court has the power to find, apply.and to enforce the

KANSAS v. COLORADO.
206 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

proper rule. That it should find the same outside of the law of
either State, not within the common law doctrine of riparian
rights, strict or modified, but within the maxim salus populi
est suprema lex. The rule to be applied should be one capable
of enforcement and of uniform application in both States.
The rule which meets the requirements is not "water runs;
let it run;" but that "water irrigates; let it irrigate." In other
words, that such waters may be appropriated and used to
irrigate land within the watershed of the stream, "leaving,
however,' sufficient in or returning sufficient to the beds of
the streams for domestic, household and stock purposes,"
subject, also, to the limitation that priority of time of appropriation determines priority of right, irrespective of state lines.
The application and enforcement of such rule will not interfere
with any vested right of the State of Kansas or any of its
citizens, such as are protected by the Federal Constitution,
for the reason that the superior rights of riparian owners to
the waters of a stream in the arid region are not the same as
in the humid belt (Clark v. Nash, 198 U. S. 361, 370) and of
necessity are limited to the use of such waters for domestic
purposes, which include, of course, water sufficient for ive
stock purposes. The evidence in the case shows that the use
of the waters above for irrigation purposes, if confined within
the watershed of the stream, returns to the stream by seepage
sufficient water for domestic purposes below. This being the
effect of irrigation above the superior right to riparian owners
below is not affected. While the Constitution prohibits the
practical destruction or material impairment of property
(Manigaultv. Springs, 199 U. S. 473), yet, generally speaking,
the evidence in this case shows that irrigation above neither
destroys nor materially impairs riparian lands below.
In respect to the so-called "underflow," the evidence of the
government witnesses shows that it is percolating waters and
not a subterranean stream; further, that its source is rainfall
and not the river.
Sub-surface waters are presumed to be percolating waters,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for the Defendant, The Colorado Fuel & Iron Co.

206 U. S.

hence the burden of proof to show that they flow in a well defined channel is upon the party who denies that they are percolating waters. Barclay v. Abraham (Iowa), 64 L. R. A. 255.
Where the common law doctrine- of riparian rights prevails,
subterranean waters when they flow in a well defined channel
are subject to the same rules of law as surface streams. Percolating waters belong to the owner of the land underneath
which they ate found, and adjacent landowners have no
correlative rights to them. Ohio Oil Company v. -Indiana,
177 U. S. 190, 204, 207. In those localities where the doctrine
of the appropriation and use of waters for irrigation purposes
exists the law in respect to subterranean waters is the same
as in respect to surface waters. See "Water Rights in the
Western States" by Wiel, ยงยง 77, 78; Katz v. Walkinshaw, 64
L. R. A. 236; Long on Irrigation, ยง 33.
In the State of Kansas subterranean waters may be appropriated and used for irrigation purposes, See General
Statutes of Kansas, 1901, ยงยง 3631, 3632, 3633.
Mr. David C. Beaman, with whom Mr. Cass E. Herringten
and Mr. Fred Herrington were on the brief, for the defendant,
The Colorado Fuel & Iron Company:
The averment of the bill is that the defendants are diverting
and using the waters of the river for agricultural purposes.
This defendant is a manufacturer of steel and iron products and
not engaged in agriculture, and the bill is, as to it, misconceived.
Kansas claims under the riparian doctrine. The use of water
by this defendant is within that doctrine. But this defendant
does not by this claim waive its claim to the use of water for
beneficial purposes under the laws of Colorado.
The Sugar Loaf reservoir of this defendant, at the head of
the Arkansas River, was established by the Governnient (13
L. D. 93), purchased by this defendant, and the use of water
therein by it authorized, -under act of Congress (29 Stats. 603)
and this court cannot interfere. Wisconsin v. Duluth, 96 U. S.
387.,

KANSAS v. COLORADO.
206 U. S. Argument for the Defendant, The Colorado Fuel & Iron Co.

Kansas does not in this suit represent the majority of her
citizens, but a small faction only, and should be defeated on
that ground. New Yorkv. Louisiana, 108 U. S. 76.
The -mountain ranges constitute an effectual barrier t6 the
passage of moisture in the trade winds from the west, this
moisture being condensed by the low temperature of these
ranges is precipitated thereon as snow and rain, thus depriving
the eastern portion of Colorado of its due share of direct
precipitation. This eastern portion is now merely taking out
by ditches for irrigation and utilizing its share of the precipitation as it melts and runs down, and which, but for this barrier,
it would have received direct from the clouds.
The flow of the Arkansas River in the summer season never
was constant. Before irrigation began in Colorado, and as
early as 1806, and ever since, the river has been dry in the
summer season for 200 miles in Colorado and Kansas.
The underflow, which Kansas claims is lessened to her injury, is not wholly dependent on the river, and has been
materially lessened by absorption consequent on cultivation
in Kansas and Colorado. Its coutinuance is not in any event
a riparian right..
Prior to irrigation in Colorado, Kansas passed laws recognizing irrigation in Western Kansas, and many ditches were
there taken out and water used for irrigation, and thus she
has aided in producing the result she complains of. Campbell v. Grimes, 64 Pac. Rep. 62; Koen v. Klein, 65 Pac. Rep.
684.
Measured, therefore, in her own "half bushel"
as this court
says she must be, Kansas has no ground of complaint. Missouri v. Illinois, 200 U. S. 496.
Colorado (as well as every other arid State) is in idependent nation in respect to the control and use (I things
which nature has supplied her within her own territory, in
so far as such use is necessary to the development of her
resources and the comfort of her people; among these are the
waters of her streams.

78

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for the Defendant, The Colorado Fuel & Iron Co.

206 U. S.

Self-preservation is the highest right and duty of a INation
and a State.. To this end either may use its internal resources
for the benefit of its people, even if those of a friendly Nation
or State may thereby be the sufferers. This right to the waters
lies at the foundation of the existence of the arid States.
Aside from the question of navigation, which is not here
involved, this right has never been, in terms or by implication,
surrendered. *By the Federal compact, it was impliedly at
least agreed that no State would wantonly injure a sister
State, but it was not agreed that any . State would deny to
her own people that which is'necessary for their prosperity
and existence, simply because it might be of equal necessity
to a sister State.. Texas v. White, 7 Wall. 725; Escanaba v.
Chicago, 107 U. S. 678; In re Waters of the Rio Grande, 21
Op. Atty.,Gen. 274.
The power of the, States to protect the lives, health and
prosperity of their citizens, to govern men and things within
the limits of their dominion, is a power originally and always
belonging to the States, not surrendered by them to the
General Government, nor restrained by the Federal Constitution, and is essentially exclusive. United Statesv. Knight, 156
U. S. 11.
Analogous to the sovereign right of a State to the water,
is the right to the game and fish, which, like the water, are
transitory in character, passing from State to State, being
the property of that State in which they for the time being
are. Manchester v. Massachusetts, 139 U. S. 240; Geer v.
Connecticut, 161 U. S. 519; Ward v. Racehorse, 163 U. S. 504;
Manigault v. Springs, 199 U. S. 473.
The contention for Federal control of waters of "interstate
streams" is whblly untenable.
All streams in the arid States of 'the middle west, except a
few which sink, are of necessity interstate, unless the fact that
a -stream bears the same name in two or more States, is the
test. This cannot be the test of interstate character.
Therefore the contention must include all the streams of

KANSAS v. COLORADO.
206'U. S.

Counsel for The Arkansas Valley Sugar Beet, &c. Co.

the middle west, and result in wiping out all state control
whatever.
Congress fixes the policy of the Government. In ten or
more acts relating to arid and desert lands, beginning ,!ith
the year 1866, Congress has not only recognized the right
of appropriation of water in the arid States for beneficial uses,
but has also recognized the right of each State to control
the same within its boundaries. The Reclamation Act of
June 17, 1902 (32 Stats. 388), not only expressly recognizes
state control of the water, but requires the Secretary of the
Interior in carrying out the act to proceed under the state
laws in respect to such control, and this has been done by the
reclamation service in all cases.
The control of irrigation having thus been left to each of
the several States by Congress, there has grown up in each
State its own system of administration, and it would be impossible now to disturb these administrative regulations
without causing endless confusion, even if Congress or this
court had the right to do so.
The Reclamation Act can be successfully carried out only
under state laws, whereby the rights of users thereunder can
be fixed and protected.
The denial of state control would leave the appropriation
and use of water without any administrative control whatever, and result in the serious impairment of the value of lands
now dependent thereon and acquired under that doctrine as
recognized for the last 40 years in the laws and customs of
the arid States, while the affirmance of the riparian doctrine
would return the arid west to its original desert condition,
and result in incalculable injury to millions of people, and also
put an end to the reclamation of public lands under the act
in reference thereto.
Mr. Platt Rogers, with whom Mr. John F. Shafroth and
Mr. Frank E. Gregg were on the brief, for the defendant,
The Arkansas Valley Sugar Beet and Irrigated Land Company.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

Mr. C. C. Goodale filed a separate brief on behalf of the defendant, the Graham Ditch Company.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

While we said in overruling the demurrer that "this court,
speaking broaUly, has jurisdiction," we contemplated further
consideration of both the fact and the extent of our jurisdietion, to be fully determined after the facts, were presented.'
We therefore commence with this inquiry. And first of our
jurisdiction of the controversy between Kansas and Colorado.
This suit involves no question of boundary or of the limits
of territorial jurisdiction. Other and incorporeal rights are
claimed by the respective'litigants. Controversies between the
States are becoming frequent, and in the rapidly changing conditions of life and business are likely to become still more so.
Involving as they do the rights of. political communities, which
in many respects are sovereign and independent, they present
not infrequently questions of far-reaching import and of exceeding difficulty.
It is well, therefore, to consider the foundations of our jurisdiction over controversies between States. It is no longer open
to question that by the Constitution a nation was brought into
being, and that that instrument was not merely operative to
establish a closer union or league of States. Whatever powers
of government were granted to the Nation or reserved to the
States (and for the description and limitation of those powers
we must always accept the Constitution as alone and absolutely controlling), there was created a nation to be known as
the United States of America, and as such then assumed its
place among the nations of the world.
The first resolution passed by the convention that framed
the Constitution, sitting as a committee of the whole, was:
"Resolved, That it is the opinion of this committee that a
national government ought to be established, consisting of a

KANSAS v. COLORADO.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

supreme legislative, judiciary, and executive." 1 Eliot's Debates, 151.
In M'Culloch v. State of Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 404,
Chief Justice Marshall said:
"The government of the Union, then (whatever may be
the influence of this fact on the case), is, emphatically, and
truly, a government of the people. In form and in substance
it emanates from them. Its powers are granted by them,
and are to be exercised directly on them, and for their benefit."
See also Martin v. Hunter's Lessee, 1 Wheat. 304, 324,
opinion by Mr. Justice Story.
In Dred Scott v. Sandford, 19 How. 393, 441, Chief Justice Taney observed:
"The new government was not a mere change in a dynasty,
or in a form of government, leaving the nation or sovereignty
the same, and clothed with all the rights, and bound by all
the obligations of the preceding one. But, when the present
United States came into existence under the new government,
it was a new political body, a new nation, then for the first
time taking its place in the family of nations."
And in Miller on the Constitution of the United States, p. 83,
referring to the adoption of the Constitution, that learned jurist
said: "It was then that a nation was born."
In the Constitution are provisions in separate articles for the
three great departments of governmcnt-legislatve, executive
and judicial. But there is this significant difference in the
grants of powers to these departments: The first article, treating of legislative powers, does not make a general grant of
legislative power. It reads: "Article I, Section 1. All legislative powers herein granted shall be vested in a Congress,"
etc.; and then in Article VIII imentions and defines the legislative powers that are granted. By reason of the fact that
there is no general grant of legislative power it has become an
accepted constitutional rule that this is a government of enumerated powers.
VOL. CCVI-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

In M'Culloch v. State of Maryland, supra, 405, Chief Justice Marshall said:.
"This government is acknowledged by all to be one of enumerated powers. The principle, that it can exercise only the
powers granted to it, would seem too apparent to have required
to be enforced by all those arguments which its enlightened
friends, while it was depending before the people, found it necessary to urge. That principle is now universally admitted."
On the other hand, in Article III, which treats of the judicial
department-and this is important for Our present consideration-we find that section 1 reads that " the judicial power of
the United States, shall be vested in one Supreme Court, and
in such inferior courts as the Congress may from time to time
ordain and establish." By this is granted the entire judicial
power of the Nation. Sectioa 2, which provides that "the
judicial power shall extend to all cases, in law and equity,
arising under this Constitution, the laws of the United States,"
etc., is not a limitation nor an enumeration. It is a definite
declaration, a provision that the judicial- power shall extend to
-that is, shall include-the several matters particularly mei tioned, leaving unrestricted the general grant of the entire
judicial power. There may be, of course, limitations on that
grant of power, but if there are any they must be expressed,
for otherwise the general grant would vest in the courts all
the judicial power which the new Nation was capable of exercising. Construing this article in the early case of Chisholm
v. Georgia, 2 Dall. 419, the court held that the judicial power
of the Supreme Court extended to a suit brought against a
State by a citizen of another State. In announcing his opinion in the case, Mr. Justice Wilson said (p. 453):
"This question, important in itself, will depend on others
more important still; and may, perhaps,- be ultimately resolved
into one, no less radical than this-Do the people of the United
States form a nation?"
In reference to this question attention may, however, properly be called to Hans v. Louisiana, 134 U. S. 1.

KANSAS v. COLORADO.
206 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

The decision in Chisholm v. Georgia led to the adoption of the
Eleventh Amendment to the Constitution, withdrawing from
the judicial power of the United States every suit in law or
equity commenced or prosecuted against one of the United
States by citizens of another State or citizens or subjects of a i.
foreign state. This Amendment refers only to suits and actions
by individuals, leaving undisturbed the jurisdiction over suits
or actions by one State against another. As said by Chief
Justice Marshall in Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264, 407:
"The amendment, therefore, extended to suits commenced or
prosecuted by individuals, but not to those brought by States.'
See also South Dakota v. North Carolina, 192 U. S.286.
Speaking generally, it may be observed that the judicial
power of a nation extends to all controversies justiciable in
their nature, the parties to which or the property involved in
which may be reached by judicial process, and when the judicial
power of the United States was vested in the Supreme arid
other courts all the judicial-power which the Nation was capalAe
of exercising was vested in those tribunals, and unless there be
some limitations expressed in the Constitution it must be held
to embrace all controversies of a justiciable. nature arising
within the territorial limits of the Nation, no matter who may
be the parties thereto. This general truth is not inconsistent
with the decisions that no suit or action can be maintained
against the Nation in any of its courts without its consent, for
they only recognize the obvious truth that a nation is not'without its consent subject to the controlling action of any of its
instrumentalities or agencies. The creature cannot rule the
creator. Kawananakoa v. Polyblank, Trustee, &c., 205 U. S.
349. Nor is it inconsistent with the ruling in Wisconsin v.
Pelican Insurance' Company, 127 U. S. 265, that an original
action cannot be maintained in this court by one State to enforce its penal laws against a citizen of another State. That
was no denial of the jurisdiction of the court, but a decision
upon the merits of the claim of the State.
These considerations lead to the propositions that when a

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

legislative power is claimed for the National Qovernment the
question is whether that power is one of those granted by the
Constitution, either in terms or by necessary implication,
whereas in respect to judicial functions the question is whether
there be any limitations expressed in the Constitution on the
general grant of national power.
We may also notice a matter in respect thereto referred to
at length in Missouri v. Illinois & Chicago District, 180 U. S.
208, 220. The ninth article of the Articles of Confederation
provided that "the United States in Congress assembled shall
also be the last resort on appeal in all disputes and differences
now subsisting or that hereafter may arise between two- or
more States, concerning boundary, jurisdiction or any other
cause whatever." In the early drafts of the Constitution provision was made giving to the Supreme Court "jurisdiction of
controversies between two or more States, except such as shall
regard territory or jurisdiction," and -also that the Senate
should have exclusive power to regulate the manner of deciding the disputes and controversies between the States respecting
jurisdiction or territory. As finally adopted, the Constitution
omits all provisions for the Senate taking cognizance of disputes between the States and leaves out the exception referred
to in the jurisdiction granted to the Supreme Court. That
carries with it a very direct recognition of the fact that to the
Supreme Court is granted jurisdiction of all controversies between the States which are justiciable in their nature. "All
the States have transferred the decision of their controversies
to this court; each had a right to demand of it the exercise
of the power which they had made judicial by the Confederation of 1781 and 1788; that we should do that which neither
States nor Congress could do, settle the controversies between
them." Rhode Island v. Massachusetts, 12 Pet. 657, 743.
Under the same general grant of judicial power jurisdiction
over suits brought by the United States has been sustained.
United States v..Texas, 143 U. S. 621; S. C., 162 U. S. 1; United
States v. Michigan, 190 U. S. 379.

KANSAS v. COLORADO.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The exemption of the United States to suit in one of its own
courts without its consent has been repeatedly recognized.
Kansas v. United States, 204 U. S. 331, 341, and cases cited.
Turning now to the controversy as here presented, it is
whether Kansas has a right to the continuous flow of the waters
of the Arkansas River, as that flow existed before any human
interference therewith, or Colorado the right to appropriate the
waters of that stream so as to prevent that continuous flow,
or that the amount of the flow is subject to the supefior authority and supervisory control of the United States. While
several of the defendant corporations have answered, it is
unnecessary to specially consider their defenses, for if the case
against Colorado fails it fails also as against them. Colorado
denies that it is in any substantial manner diminishing the
flow of the Arkansas River into 'Kansas. If -that be true then
it is in no way infringing upon the rights of Kansas. If it is
diminishing that flow has it an absolute right to determine
for itself the extent to which it will diminish it, even to the
entire appropriation of the water? And if it has not that absolute right is the amount of appropriation that it is now making such an infringement upon the rights of Kansas as to call
for judicial interference? Is the question one solely between
the States or is the'matter subject to national legislative regulation, and, if the latter, to what extent has that regulation been
carried? Clearly this controversy is one of a justiciable nature.
The right to the flow of a stream was one recognized at common
law, for a trespass upon which a cause of action existed.
The primary question is, of course, of national control. For,
if the Nation has a right to regulate the flow of the waters, we
must inquire what it has done in the way of regulation. If it
has done nothing the further question will then arise, what are
the respective rights of the two States in the absence of national
regulation? Congress has, by virtue of the grant to it of power
to regulate commence "among the several States," extensive
control over the highways, natural or artificial, upon which
such commerce may be carried. It may prevent or remove

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

obstructions in the natural waterways and preserve the navigability of those ways. In United States v. Rio Grande Irrigation
Company, 174 U. S. 690, in which was considered the validity
of the appropriation of the water of a stream by virtue of local
legislation, so far as such appropriation affected the navigability of the stream, we said (p. 703):
"Although this power of changing the common law rule as
to streams within its dominion undoubtedly belongs to each
State, yet two limitations must be recognized: First, that in
the absence of specific authority from Congress a State cannot
by its legislation destroy the right of the United States, as the
owner of lands bordering on a stream, to the continued flow
of its waters; so far at least as may be necessary for the beneficial uses of the Government property. Second, that it is
limited by the superior power of the General Government to
secure the uninterrupted navigability of all navigable streams
within the limits of the United States. In other words, the
jurisdiction of the General Government over interstate commerce and its natural highways vests in that Government the
right to take all needed measures to preserve the navigability
of the navigable watercourses of the country even against any
state action."
It follows from this that if in the present case the National
Government was asserting, as against either Kansas or Colorado, that the appropriation for the purposes of irrigation of
the waters of the Arkansas was affecting the navigability of
the stream, it would become our dutyto determine the truth
of the charge. But the Government makes no such contention. On the contrary, it distinctly asserts that the Arkansas
River is not now and never was practically navigable beyond
Fort Gibson in the Indian Territory, and nowhere claims that
any appropriation of the waters by Kansas or Colorado affects
its navigability.
It rests its petition of intervention upon its alleged duty of
legislating for the reclamation of arid lands; alleges that in or
near the Arkansas River, as it runs through Kansas and Colo-

KANSAS v. COLORADO.
206 U. S.

Opinion-of the Court.

rado, are large tracts of those lands; that the National Government is itself the owner of many thousands of acres; that it
has the right to make such legislative provision as in its judgment is needful for the reclamation of all these arid lands and
for that purpose to appropriate the accessible waters.
In support of the main proposition' it is stated in the brief
of its counsel:

"That the doctrine of riparian rights is inapplicable to conditions prevailing in the arid region; that such doctrine, if applicable in said region, would prevent the sale, reclamation,
and cultivation of the public arid lands, and, defeat the policy
of the Government in respect thereto; that the doctrine which
is applicable to conditions in said arid region, and which prevails therein, is that the waters of natural streams may be used
to irrigate and cultivate arid lands, whether riparian or nonriparian, and that the priority of appropriation of such waters
and the application of the same for beneficial purposes establishes a prior and superior right."
In other words, the determination of the rights of the two
States inter sese in regard to the flow of waters in the Arkansas
River is subordinate to a superior right on the part of the
National Government to control the whole system of the reclamation of arid lands. That involves the question whether the
reclamation of arid lands is one of the powers granted to the
General Government. As heretofore stated, the constant declaration of this court from the beginning is that this Government is one of enumerated powers. "The Government, then,
of the United States, can claim -nopowers which are not granted
to ii by the Constitution, and the powers actually granted,
must be such as are expressly given, or given by necessary
implication." Story, J., in Martinv. Hunter's Lessee, 1 Wheat.
304, 326. "The Government of the United States is one of
delegated, limited, and enumerated powers." United States.v.
Harris,106 U. S. 629, 635.
Turning to the enumeration of the powers granted to Congress by the eighth section of the first article of the Constitu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

tion, it is enough to say that no one of them by Any implication refers to the reclamation of arid lands. The last
paragraph of the section which authorizes Congress to make
all laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying into
execution the foregoing powers, and all other powers vested
by this Constitution in the Government of the United States,
or in any department or office thereof, is not the delegation
of a new and independent power, but simply provision for
making effective the powers theretofore mentioned. The construction of that paragraph was precisely stated by Chief
Justice Marshall in these words: "We think the sound construction of the Constitution must allow to the national legislature.tilat discretion, with respect to the means by which the
powers it confers are to be carried into execution, which will
enable that body to perform the high duties assigned to it, in
the manner most beneficial to the people. Let the end be
legitimate, let it be within the scope of the Constitution, and
all means which are appropriate, which are plainly adapted to
that end, which are not prohibited, but consist with the letter
and spirit of the Constitution, are constitutional "-a statement which has become the settled rule of construction: From
this and other declarations it is clear that the Constitution is
not to be construed technically and narrowly, as an indictment, or even as a grant presumably against the interest of
the grantor, and passing only that which is clearly included
within its language, but as creating a system of government
whose provisions are designed to make effective and operative
all the governmental powers granted. Yet while so construed
it still is true that no independent and unmentioned power
passes to the National Government or can rightfully be exercised by the Congress.
We must look beyond section 8 for Congressional authority
over arid lands, and it is said to be found in the second paragraph of section 3 of Article IV, reading: "The Congress shall
have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging

KANSAS v. COLORADO.
206 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

to the United States; and nothing in this Constitution shall
be so construed as to prejudice any claims of the United States,
or of any particular State."
The full scope of this paragraph has never been definitely
settled. Primarily, at least, it is a grant of power to the United
States of control over its property. That is implied by the
words"' territory or other property." It is true it has been
referred to in some decisions as granting political and legislative control over the Territories as distinguished from the
States of the Union. It is unnecessary in the present case
to consider whether the language justifies this construction.
Certainly we have no disposition to limit or qualify the expressions which have heretofore fallen from this court in respect thereto. But clearly it does not grant to Congress any
legislative control over the States, and must, so far as they are
concerned, be limited to authority over the property belonging to the United States within their limits. Appreciating the
force of this, counsel for the Government relies upon "'the doctrine of sovereign and inherent power," adding "I am aware
that in advancing this doctrine I seem to challenge great decisions of the court, and I speak with deference." His argument runs substantially along this line: All legislative power
must be vested in either the state or the National Government;
no legislative powers belong to a state government other than
those which affect solely the internal affairs of that State;
consequently all powers which are national in their scope must
be found vested in the Congress of the United States. But the
proposition that there are legislative powers affecting the Nation
as a whole which belong fo, although not expressed in the grant
of powers, is in direct conflict with the doctrine that this is a
government of enumerated powers' That this is such a government clearly appears from the Constitution, independently
of the Amendments, for otherwise theve would be an instrument granting certain specified things made operative to grant
other and distinct things. This natural construction of the
original body of the Constitution is made absolutely certain

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

by the Tenth Amendment. This amendment, which was seemingly adopted with prescience of just such contention as the
present, disclosed the widespread fear that the National Government might, under the pressure of a supposed general welfare,
attempt to exercise powers which had not been granted. With
equal determination the framers intended that no such assumption should ever find justification in the organic act, and that
if in the future further powers seemed necessary they should
be granted by the people in the manner they had provided for
amending that act. It reads: "The powers not delegated to the
United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the
States, are reserved, to the States respectively, or to the people." The argument of counsel ignores the principal factor
in this article, to wit, " the people." Its principal purpose
was not the distribution of power between the United States
and the States, but a reservation to the people of all powers not granted. The preamble of the Constitution declares
who framed it, "we the people of the United States," not
the people of one State, but the people of all the States, and
Article X reserves to the people of all the States the powers
not delegated to the United States. The powers affecting
the internal affairs of the States not granted to the United
States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States,
are reserved to the States respectively, and all powers of a
national character which are not delegated to the National
Government by the Constitution are reserved to the people
of the United States. The people who adopted the Constitution knew that in the nature of things they could not
foresee all the questions which might arise in the future, all the
circumstances which might call for the exercise of further
national powers than those granted to the United States, and
after making provision for an amendment to the Constitution
by which any needed additional powers would be granted,
they reserved to themselves all powers not so delegated. This
Article X is not to be shorn of its meaning by any narrow or
technical construction, but is to be considered fairly and

KANSAS v. COLORADO.
206 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

liberally so as to give effect to its scope and meaning. As
we said, construing an express limitation on the powers
of Congress, in Fairbank v. United States, 181 U. S. 283,
288:
"We are not here confronted with a question of the extent
of the powers of Congress but one of the limitations imposed
by the Constitution on its action, and it seems to us clear that
the same rule and spirit of construction must also be recognized. If powers granted are to be taken as broadly granted
and as carrying with them authority to pass those acts which
may be reasonably necessary to carry them into full execution; in other words, if the Constitution in its grant of powers
is to be so construed that Congress shall be able to carry into
full effect the powers granted, it is equally imperative that
where prohibition or limitation is placed upon the power of
Congress that prohibition or limitation should be enforced in
its spirit and to its entirety. It would be a strange rule of
construction that language granting powers is to be liberally
construed and that language of restriction is to be narrowly
and technically construed. Especially is this true when in
respect to grants of powers there is as heretofore noticed the
help found in the last clause of the eighth section, and no such
helping clause in respect to prohibitions and limitations. The
true spirit of constitutional interpretation in both directions
is to give full, liberal construction to the language, aiming
ever to show fidelity to the spirit and purpose."
This very matter of the reclamation of arid lands illustrates
this: At the time of the adoption of the Constitution within
the known and conceded limits of the United States there were
no large tracts of arid land, and nothing which called for any
further action than that which might be taken by the legislature of the State, in which any particular tract of such land
was to be found, and the Constitution, therefore, makes no
prevision for a national control of the arid regions or their
reclamation. But, as our national territory has been enlarged,'
we have within our borders extensive tracts of arid lands

92

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

which ought to be reclaimed, and it may well be that no power
is adequate for their reclamation other than that of the National Government. But if no such power has been granted,
none can be exercised.
It does not follow from this that the National Government is
entirely powerless in respect to this matter. These arid lands
are largelywithin the'Territories, and ov-er them by virtue of
the second paragraph of section 3 of Article IV heretofore
quoted, or by virtue of the power vested in the National Government to acquire territory.by treaties, Congress has full power
of legislation, subject to no restrictions 6ther than those expressly named in the Constitution, and, therefore, it may
legislate in respect to all arid.lands within their limits. As to
those lands 'within the limits of the States, at least of the
Western States, the National Government. is the most considerable owner and has pQwer to dispose of and make all needful
rules and regulations respecting its property. We-do not mean
that 'its legislation can override state laws' in respect to the
general subject of reclamation. While arid lands are to be
found, mainly if not only in the Western and newer States,
yet the powers of the National Government within the limits
of those,States are the same'(no .greater and no less) than those
within the limits of the original thirteen, and it would be
strange if, in the absence of a definite grant of power, the
National Government could enter the territory of the States
along the Atlantic and legislate in respect to improving by
irrigation or otherwise the lands within their borders. Nor
do we understand that hitherto Congress has acted in disregard to-this limitation. As said by 'Mr. Justice White, delivering the opinion of the court in Gutierres v. Albuquerque
Land Company, 188 U. S. 545, 554, after referring to previous
legislation:
"It may be observed 'that the 'purport of the previous acts
is reflexively illustrated-by the Act of June 17, 1902, 32 Stat.
388. That act appropriated the receipts from the sale and
disposal of the public lands in certain States and' Territories

KANSAS v. COLORADO.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to the construction of irrigation works for the reclamation of
arid lands. The eighth section of the act is as follows:
" 'SEC. 8. That nothing in this act shall be construed as
affecting or intending to affect or to in any way interfere with
the laws of any State or Territory relating to the control, appropriation, use, or distribution of water used in irrigation, or
any vested right acquired thereunder, and the Secretary of the
Interior, in carrying out the provisions of this act, shall proceed in conformity with such laws, and nothing herein shall
in any way affect any right of any State or of the Federal
Government or of any landowner, appropriator, or user of
water in, to, or from any interstate stream or the waters thereof:
Provided, That the right to the use of the water acquired under
the provisions of this act shall be appurtenant to the land
irrigated, and beneficial use shall be the basis, the measure,
and the limit of the right.' "
But it is useless to pursue the inquiry further in this direction. It is enough for the purposes of this case 'that each State
has full jurisdiction over the lands within its borders, including
the beds of streams and other waters. Martin v. Waddell, 16
Pet. 367; Pollard v. Hagan, 3 How. 212; Goodtitle v. Kibbe, 9
How. 471; Barney v. Keokuk, 94 U. S. 324; St. Louis v. Myers,
113 U. S. 566; Packer v. Bird, 137 U. S. 661; Hardin v. Jordan,
140 U. S. 371; Kaukauna Water Power Company v. Green Bay
& Mississippi Canal Company, 142 U. S. 254; Shively v.
Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1; Water Power Company v. Water Commissioners, 168 U. S. 349; Kean v. Calumet Canal Company, 190
U. S. 452. In Barney v. Keokuk, supra, Mr. Justice Bradley
said (p. 338):
"And since this court, in the case of The Genesee Chief, 12
id. 443, has declared that the Great Lakes and other navigable
waters of the country, above as well as below the flow of the
tide, are, in the strictest sense, entitled to the denomination
admiralty jurisdicof navigable waters, and amenable to the
tion, there seems to be no sound reasons for adhering to the old
rule as to the proprietorship of the beds and shores of such

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U..S.

waters. It properly belongs to the States by their inherent
sovereignty, and the United States has wisely abstained from
extending (if it could extend) its survey and grants beyond
the limits of high water."
In Hardin v. Jordan, supra, the same Justice, after stating
that the title to the shore and lands under water is in the State,
added (pp. 381, 382):
"Such title being in the State, the lands are subject to state
regulation and control, under the condition, however, of not
interfering with the regulations which may be made by Congress with regard to public navigation and commerce.
Sometimes large areas so reclaimed are occupied by cities, and
are put to other public or private uses, state control and ownership therein being supreme, subject only to the paramount
authority of Congress in making regulations of commerce, and
in subjecting the lands to the necessities and uses of commerce.

.

.

.

This right of the States to regulate and con-

trol the shores of tide waters, and the land under them, is the
same as that which is exerco ed by the Crown in England. In
this country the same rule has been extended to our great
navigable lakes, which are treated as inland seas; and also, in
some of the States, to navigable rivers, as the Mississippi, the
Missouri, the Ohio, and, in Pennsylvania, to all the permanent
rivers of the State; but it depends on the law of each State to
what waters and to what extent this prerogative of the State
over the lands under water shall be exercised."
It may determine for itself whether the common law rule
in respect to riparian rights or that doctrine which obtains in
the arid regions of the West of the appropriation of waters for
the purposes of irrigation shall control. Congress cannot enforce either rule upon-any State. It is undoubtedly true that
the early settlers brought to this country the common law of
England, and that that common law throws light on the
meaning and scope of the Constitution of the United States,
and is also in many States expressly recognized as of controlling force in the absence of express statute. As said by Mr.

KANSAS v. COLORADO.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Justice Gray in United States v. Wong Kim Ark, 169 U. S. 649,
654:
"In this, as in other respects, it must be interpreted in the
light of the common law, the principles and history of which
were familiarly known to the framers of the Constitution.
Minor v. Happersett, 21 Wall. 162; Ex parte Wilson, 114 U. S.
417, 422; Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S.616, 624, 625; Smith
v. Alabama, 124 U. S.465. The language of the Constitution,
as has been well said, could not be understood without reference to the common law. 1 Kent, Com., 336; Bradley, J., in
Moore v. United States, 91 U. S. 270, 274."
In the argument on the demurrer counsel for plaintiff endeavored to show that Congress had expressly imposed the
common law on all this territory prior to its formation into
States. See also the opinion of the Supreme Court of Kansas
in Clark v. Allaman, 71 Kansas, 206. But when the States of
Kansas and Colorado were admitted into the Union they were
admitted with the full powers of local sovereignty which belonged to other States, Pollard v. Hagan, supra; Shively v.
Bowlby, supra; Hardin v. Shedd, 190 U. S.508, 519; and Colorado by its legislation has recognized the right of appropriating
the flowing waters to the purposes of irrigation. Now the
question arises between two States, one recognizing generally
the common law rule of riparian rights and the other prescribing the doctrine of the public ownership of flowing water.
Neither State can legislate for or impose its own policy upon
the other. A stream flows through the two and a controversy
is presented as to the flow of that stream. It does not follow,
however, that because Congress cannot determine the rule
which shall control between the two States or because neither
State can enforce its own policy upon the other, that the controversy ceases to be one of a justiciable nature, or that there
is no power which can take cognizance of the controversy and
determine the relative rights of the two States. Indeed, the
disagreement, coupled with its effect upon a stream passing
through the two States, makes a matter for investigation and

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

determination by this court. It has been said that there is no
common law of the United States as distinguished from the
common law of the several States. This contention was made
in Western Union Telegraph Company v. Call Publishing Company, 181 U. S. 92, in which it was asserted that, as Congress
having sole jurisdiction over interstate commerce had prescribed no rates for interstate telegraph communications, there
was no limit on the power of a telegraph company in respect
thereto. After referring to the general contention, we said
(pp. 101, 102):
"Properly understood, no exceptions can be taken to declarations of this kind. There is no body of Federal common law
separate and distinct from the common law existing in the
several States in the sense that there is a body of statute law
enacted by Congress separate and distinct from the body of
statute law enacted by the several States. But it is an entirely different thing to hold that there is no common law in
force generally throughout the United States, and that the
countless multitude of interstate commercial transactions are
subject to no rules and burdened by no restrictions other than
those expressed in the statutes of Congress.

.

.

Can it

be that the great multitude of interstate commercial transactions are freed from the burdens created by the common law
as so defined, and are subject to no rule except that to be found
in the statutes of Congress? We are clearly of opinion that this
cannot be so, and that the principles of the common law are
operative upon all interstate commercial transactions except
so far as they are modified by Congressional enactment."
What is the common law? Kent says (vol. 1, p. 471):
"The common law includes those principles, usages and rules
of action applicable to the government and security of persons
and property, which do not rest for their authority upon any
express and positive declaration of the will of the legislature."
As it does not rest on any statute or other written declaration of the sovereign, there must, as to each principle thereof,
be a first statement. Those statements are found in the deci-

KANSAS v. COLORADO.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

sions of courts, and the first statement presents the principle
as certainly as the last. Multiplication of declarations merely
adds certainty. For after all, the common law-is but the accumulated expressions of the various judicial tribunals in their
efforts to ascertain what is rightand just_ between individuals
in respect to private disputes. -As Congress cannot make compacts between the States, as it. cannot, in respect to certain
matters, by legislation, compel their separate action; disputes
between them must be settled either by force or else by appeal
to tribunals empowered to determine the right and wrong
thereof. Force under our system of Government is eliminated.
The clear lahguage of the Constitution Vests in this court the
power to settle those disputes. We have exercised that power
in a variety of instances, determining in the several instances
the justice of the dispute. Nor is our jurisdiction ousted, even
if, because Kansas and Colorado are States sovereign and independent in local matters, the relations between them depend
in any respect upon principles of international law. International law is no alien in this tribunal. In The Paquete
Habana, 175 U. S. 677, 700, Mr. Justice Gray declared:
"International law is part of our law, and must be ascertained and administered by the courts of justice of appropriate jurisdiction, as often as questions of right depending
upon it are duly presented for their determination."
And in delivering the opinion on the demurrer in this case
Chief Justice Fuller said (185 U. S. 146):
"Sitting, as it were, as an international, as well as a domestic
tribunal, we apply Federal law, state law, and international
law, as the exigencies of the particular case may demand."
One cardinal rule, underlying all the relations of the States
to each other, is that of equality of right. Each State stands
on the same level with all the rest. It can impose its own legislation on no one of the others, and is bound to yield its own
views to none. Yet, whenever, as in the case of Missouri v.
Illinois, 180 U. S.208, the action of one State reaches through
the agency of natural laws into the territory of another State,
VOL. ccvi-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

the question of the extent and the limitations of the rights of
the .two States becomes a matter of justiciable dispute between
them, and this court is cPaled upon to settle that dispute in
such a way as will recognize the.equal rights of both and at the
same time establih justice between them. In other words,
through these successive disputes and decisions this court is
practically building up what may not improperly be called
interstate common law. This very case presents a significant
illustration. Before either Kansas or Colorado was settled the
Arkansas River was a stream running through the territory
which now composes these two States. Arid lands abound in
C olorado. , Reclamation is possible only by the application of
water, and the extreme contention of Colorado is that it has a
right to appropriate all the wat 7 s of this stream for the-purposes of irrigating its soil and -making more valuable its own
territory. But the appropriation of the entire flow of the river
would naturally tend to make the lands along the stream in
Kansas less arable.- It would be taking from the adjacent
territory, that which had been the customary natural means
of preserving its arable character. On the other hand, the
possible contention of Kansas, that the flowing water in the
Arkansas must, in accordance with the extreme doctrine of
the common law of England, be left to flow as it was wont to
flow, no portion of it being appropriated in Colorado for .the
purposes of irrigation, would have the effect to perpetuate a
desert condition in portions of Colorado beyond the power of
reclamation. Surely here is a dispute of a justiciable nature
which must and ought to be tried and determined. If the two
States were absolutely independent nations it would be settled by treaty or by force. Neither of these ways being practicable, it must be settled by decision of this court.
It will be perceived that Kansas asserts a pecuniary interest
as the owner of certain tracts along the banks of the Arkansas
and as the owner of the bed of the stream, We need not stop
to consider what rights such private ownership of property
might give.

KANSAS v. COLORADO.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

In deciding this case on demurrer we said (185 U. S. 142),
referring to the opinion in Missouri v. Illinois:
"As will be perceived, the court there ruled that
the mere
fact that a State had no pecuniary interest in the controversy,
would not defeat the original jurisdiction of this court, which
might be invoked by the State as parens patrice, trustee,
guardian or representative of all or a considerable portion of
its citizens; and that the threatened pollution of the waters of
a river flowing between States, under the authority of one of
them, thereby putting the health and comfort of the citizens
of the other in jeopardy, presented a cause of action justiciable
under the Constitution.
"In the case before us, the State of Kansas files her bill as
representing and on behalf of her citizens, as well as in vindication of her alleged rights as an individual owner, and seeks
relief in respect of being deprived of the waters of the river
accustomed to flow through and across the State, and the
consequent destruction of the property of herself and of her
citizens and injury to their health and comfort. The action
complained of is state action and not the action of state officers
in abuse or excess of their powers."
It is the State of Kansas which invokes the action of this
court, charging that through the action of Colorado a large
portion of its territory is threatened with disaster. In this
respect it is in no manner evading the provisions of the Eleventh
Amendment to the Federal Constitution. It is not acting
directly and solely for the benefit of any individual citizen to
protect his riparian rights. Beyond its property rights it has
an interest as a State in this large tract of land bordering on
the Arkansas River. Its prosperity affects the general welfare
of the State. The controversy rises, therefore, above a mere
question of local private right and involves a matter of state
.interest, and must be considered from that standpoint. Georgia
v. Tennessee Copper Co., decided this day, post, p. 230.
This changes in some respect the scope of our inquiry. It is
not limited to the simple matter of whether any portion of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

waters of the Atkansas is withheld by Colorado. We must
consider. the effect of what has been done upon the conditions
in the respective States and so adjust the dispute upon the
basis of equality-of rights as to secure as far as possible to
Colorado the benefits of irrigation without depriving Kansas
of the like beneficial effects of a flowing stream. A little reflection will make this clear. Suppose the controversy was
between two individuals, upper and lower riparian owners on
*alittle stream with rocky bank and rocky bottom. The question properly might be limited to the single one of the diminution of the flow by the upper riparian proprietor. The lower
riparian proprietor might insist that he was entitled to the full,
undiminished and unpolluted flow of the water of the stream
as it had been wont to run. It would not be a defense on the
part of the upper riparian proprietor that by the use to which
he. had appropriated the water he had benefited the lower proprietor, or that the latter had received in any, other respects
an equivalent. The question would be one of legal right,
narrowed to place, amount of flow and freedom from pollution.
We do not intimate that entirely different considerations
obtain in a controversy between two States. Colorado could
not be upheld in appropriating the entire flow of the Arkansas
River, on the ground that it is willing to give, and does give,
to Kansas something else- which may be considered of equal
value. That would be equivalent to this court's making a
contract between the two States, and that it is not authorized
to do. But we are justified in looking at the question not
narrowly and solely as to the amount of the flow in the channel
of the Arkansas River, inquiring merely whether any portion
thereof is appropriated by Colorado, but we may properly
consider what, in case a portion of that flow is appropriated
by Colorado, are the effectsof such appropriation upon Kansas.
territory. For instance, if there be many thousands of acres
in Colorado destitute of vegetation, which by the taking of
water from the Arkansas River and in no other way can be

KANSAS v. COLORADO.
206 U. S.

. 01

Opinion of the Court.

made valuable as arable lands producing an abundance of
vegetable growth, and this transformation of desert land has
the effect, through percolation of water in the soil, or in any
other way, of giving to Kansas territory, although not in the
Arkansas Valley, a benefit from water as great as that which
would enure by keeping the flow of the Arkansas in its channel
undiminished, then we may rightfully regard the usefulness
to Colorado as justifying its action, although the locality of the
benefit which the flow of the Arkansas through Kansas has
territorially changed. Science may not as yet be able to give
positive information as to the processes by which the distribution of water over certain territory has operation beyond the
mere limits of the area in which the water is distributed, but
they who have dwelt in the-West know that there are constant changes in the productiveness of different portions of the
territory, owing, apparently, to a wider and more constant
distribution of water. To illustrate, the early settlers of
Kansas territory found that farming was unsuccessful unless
confined to its eastern 100 or 120 miles. West of that crops
were almost always a failure, but now that region is the home
of a large population, with crops as certain as those elsewhere,
and yet this change has not been brought about by irrigation.
A common belief is that the original sod was largely impervious
to water, that when the spring rains came the water, instead of
sinking into the ground, filled the watercourses to overflowing
and ran off to the Gulf of Mexico. There was no water in the
soil to go up in vapor and come down in showers, and the constant heat of summer destroyed the crops; but after the sod
had once been turned the water from those rains largely sank
into the ground, and then as the summer came on went up in
vapor and came down in showers, and so by continued watering prevented the burning up of the growing crops. We do
not mean to say that science has demonstrated this to be the
operating cause or that other theories are not propounded,
but the fact is that, instead of stopping at a distance of 120
miles from the Missouri River, the area of cultivated and

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

profitably cultivated land has extended 150 to 200 -miles
further west, and seems to be steadily moving towards the
western boundary of the State. Now if there is this change
gradually moving westward from the Missouri River, is it altogether an unreasonable expectation that as the arid lands of
Colorado are irrigated and become from year to year covered
with vegetation,. there will move eastward from Colorado an
extension of the area of arable lands until, between the Missouri
River and the mountains of Colorado, there shall be no land
which is not as fully subject to cultivation as lands elsewhere
in the country?. Will not the productiveness of Kansas as a
whole, its-capacity to support an increasing population, be
increased by the use of the water in Colorado for irrigation?
May we not consider some -appropriation by Colorado of the
waters of the Arkansas to the irrigation and reclamation of its
arid lands as a reasonable exercise of its sovereignty and as not
unreasonably trespassing upon any rights of Kansas? And
here we must notice the local law of Kansas as declared by
its Supreme Court, premising that the views expressed in this
opinion are to be confined to a case in'which the facts and the
local law of the two States are as here disclosed. In Clark v.
Allaman, 71 Kansas, 206, is an exhaustive discussion of the
question, Mr. Justice Burch delivering the unanimous opinion
of the court. In the syllabus, which by statute (Compiled
Laws, Kansas, p. 317, sec. 14) is prepared by the justice writing the opinion, and states the law of the case, are these paragraphs:
"The use of the water of a running stream for irrigation,
after its primary uses for quenching thirst and other domestic
requirements have been subserved, is one of the common law
rights of a riparian proprietor.
"The use of water by a riparian proprietor for irrigation
purposes must be reasonable under all the circumstances,,and
the right must be exercised with due regard to the equal right
of every Other riparian owner along the course of the stream.
"A diminution of the flow of water over riparian land caused

KANSAS v. COLORADO.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

by its use for irrigation purposes by upper riparian proprietors
occasions no injury for which damages may be allowed unless it
results in subtracting from the Value of the land by interfering with the reasonable uses of the water which the landowner
is able to enjoy.
"Ii determining the quantity of land tributary to and lying
along a stream which a single proprietor may irrigate the
principle of equality of right with others should control, irrespective of the accidental matter of governmental subdivisions
of the land."
And in the opinion, on pages 242, 243, are quoted these observations of Chief Justice Shaw in the case of Elliott v. Fitchburg Railroad Company, 10 Cush. 191, 193, 196:
"The right to flowing water is now well settled to be a
right incident to property in the land; it is a right publici juris,
of such a character, that.whilst it is common and equal to all,
through whose land it runs, and no one can obstruct or divert
it, yet, as one of the beneficial gifts of Providence, each proprietor has a right to a just and reasonable use of it, as it passes
through his land; and so long as it is not wholly obstructed or
diverted, or no larger appropriation of the water running
through it is made than a just and reasonable use, it cannot
be said to be wrongful or injurious to a proprietor lower down.
What is such a just and reasonable use, may often be a difficult question, depending on various circumstances. To take
a quantity of water from a large running stream for agriculture
or manufacturing purposes, would cause no sensible or practicable diminution of the benefit, to the prejudice of a lower proprietor; whereas, taking the same quantity from a small running brook passing through many farms, would be of great
and manifest injury to those below, who need it for dome,.ic
supply or watering cattle; and therefore it would be an unreasonable use of the water, and an action would lie in the
latter case and not in the former. It is, therefore, to a considerable extent a question of degree; still, the rule is the same,
that each proprietor has a right to a reasonable use of it, for

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

his own benefit, for domestic use, and for manufacturing and
agricultural purposes.
"That a portion of the water of a stream may be used for
the purpose of irrigating land, we think is w6ll established as
one of the rights of the proprietors of the soil along or through
which it passes. Yet a proprietor cannot under color of that
right, or for the actual purpose of-irrigating his own land,
wholly abstract or divert, the watercourse, or take such an unreasonable quantity of water, or make such unreasonable-use
of it, as to deprive other proprietors of the, substantial benefits
which they might derive from it, if not diverted or used unreasonably.
"This rule, that no riparian proprietor can wholly abstract
or divert a watercourse, by which it would cease to-be a running stream, or use it unreasonably in its passage, and thereby
deprive a lower proprietor of a quality of his property, deemed
in law incir"ental and beneficial, necessarily flows from the
principle that the right to the reasonable and beneficial use of
a running stream is common to all the riparian proprietors,
and so, each is bound so to use his common right, as not essentially to prevent or interfere with an equally beneficial
enjoyment of the common right, by all the proprietors. .
"The right to the use of flowing water is publici juris, and
common to all the riparian proprietors; it is not an absolute
and exolusive right to all the water flowing past their land,
so that any obstruction would give a cause of action; but it is
a right to the flow and enjoyment of t6e water, subject to a
similar right in all the proprietors, to the reasonable enjoyment of the same gift of Providence. It is, therefore, only for
an abstraction and deprivation of this common benefit, or for
an unreasonable and unauthorized use of it, that an action
will lie."
As Kansas thus recognizes the right of appropriating the
waters of a stream for the purposes of irrigation, subject to the
condition of an equitable division between the riparian proprietors, she cannot complain if the same rule is administered

KANSAS v. COLORADO.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

between herself and a sister State. And this is especially true
when the waters are, except for domestic purposes, practically
useful only for purposes of irrigation. The Arkansas River,
from its source to the eastern end of the Royal Gorge, is a
mountain torrent, coming down between rocky banks and over
a 'rocky bed. Along this distance it is of comparatively little
use for irrigation purposes. After it debouches from the
Royal Gorge it enters a valley, in which it wanders from one
side to the other.through eastern Colorado, southwestern Kansas and into Oklahoma, with but a slight descent, and presenting but little opportunities for the development of water power
through falls or by dams. Its length in Kansas is about three
hundred and fifty miles, and the descent is only 2,320 feet, or
less than seven feet to a mile. There are substantially no falls,
no- narrow passageways in which dams can" be readily constructed for the development, of water power; and while there
are some, in eastern Colorado, yet they are. of little elevation
and mainly to assist in the storing of water for purposes of
irrigation. So that, if the extreme rule of the common law
were enforced, Oklahoma having the same right to insist that
there should be no diversion of the stream in Kansas for the
purposes of irrigation that Kansas has in respect to Colorado,
the result would be that the waters, except for the meagre
amount required for domestic purposes, would flow through
eastern Colorado and Kansas and be of comparatively little
advantage to either State, and both would lose the great benefit which comes from the use of the water for irrigation. The
drainage area of the Arkansas River in Colorado is 26,000
square miles; in Kansas, 20,000 square miles; and all this area,
unless- the stream can -be used for purposes of irrigation, would
be left to the slow development which comes from the cultivation of the soil.
The testimony in this case is voluminous, amounting to.
8,559 typewritten pages, with 122 exhibits, and it would be
impossible to make a full statement of facts without an extravagant extension of this opinion, which is already too long,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

and yet some facts must be stated to indicate the basis for the
conclusion to which we have come. It must also be noted
that, as might be expected in such a volume of testimony,
coming as it does from three hundred and forty-seven witnesses, there is no little contradiction and a good deal of confusion, and this contradiction is to be found not merely in the
testimony of witnesses, but also in the exhibits, among which
are reports from the officials of the Government and
the two
States. We have endeavored to deduce from this volume
those matters which seem most clearly proved, and must, as
to other matters, be content to generalize and state that which
seems to. be the tendency of the evidence.
Colorado is divided into five irrigating divisions, each of
which is in charge of a division engineer. That which includes
the drainage area of the Arkansas is District No. 2, divided
into eleven districts. Under the laws of Colorado, irrigating
ditches have been established in this district and the amount
of water which each may take from the river decreed. In
addition some reservoirs have been built for storing the surplus
waters which come down in times of flood, and this adds largely
to the amount available for irrigation. The storage capacity of
six of these reservoirs is shown to be 8,527,673,652 cubic feet.
The significance and value of these reservoirs can be appreciated when we remember that the Arkansas, like many other
streams, has-its origin in the mountain districts of Colorado,
and that by the melting of thesnows almost every year there
is a flood. The amount of water authorized to be taken by
the ditches from the river is, as alleged in the bill, 4,200 cubic
feet, and from its affluents and tributaries 4,300 feet. (Whenever this term is used in reference to the flow of water it means
the number of cubic feet that pass in a second.) The average
flow of the river, as it comes out of the Royal Gorge at Cafion
City, is as shown by official measurements for a series of years,
750 cubic feet. So that it appears that the irrigating ditches
are authorized to take from the Arkansas River much more
water than passes in the channel into the valley. It is not clear

KANSAS v. COLORADO.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

what surplus water, if any, comes out of the tributaries.
There are some twenty-five of them, the average flow from
four of which into the:Arkansas is 313 cubic feet. Aside from
this surplus water some may be returned through overflow of
the ditches or from seepage. What either of these amounts
may be is not disclosed.' Indeed, the extent to which seepage
operates in adding to the flow of a stream, or in distributing
water through lands adjacent to those upon which water is
poured, is something proof of which must necessarily be almost
impossible. We may note the fact that a tract, bordering upon
land which has been flooded, shows by its increasing yegetation that it has received in some way the benefit of water, and
yet the amount of the water passing by seepage may never be
definitely known. The underground movement of water will
always be 'a problem of uncertainty. We know that when
water is turned upon dry and barren soil the barrenness disappears, vegetation is developed, and that which was a desert
becomes a garden. It is the magic 'of transformation; the
wilderness budding and blossoming as the rose. The writer
of this opinion recalls a conversation with Bayard Taylor, the
celebrated traveler, in which the latter stated that nothing had
contributed so much to secure the steady control of the French
in Algiers as the fact that after taking possession of that territory they sank artesian wells on the borders of the desert, and
thus reclaimed portions of it, for the Arabs believed that
people who could reclaim the desert were possessed'of a power
that could not be withstood.
Further, adjacent barren ground is slowly but surely affected, and itself begins to increase its vegetation. We may
not be entirely-sure as to the methods by which this change
is accomplished, although the result is undoubted. It may be
that water percolating under the surface has reached this adjacent ground. Perhaps the vegetation, which we know attracts moisture from the air, may increase the rainfall, and
thus affect the adjacent barren regions.
It appears that prior to 1885 there was-comparatively little

108

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

water taken from the Arkansas for irrigation .purposes-certainly not enough to make any perceptible impression on the
flow of the river-but about that time certain corporations
commenced the work of irrigation on a large scale, with ditches,
some of which might well be called canals. Thus, in 1884
work was commenced on ditches capable of carrying off 450
cubic feet; in 1887 others capable of carrying off 1,481 cubic
feet, and in 1890 still others carrying 1,705 cubic feet. Most
of these were completed within two years after the commencement of the several works. By the year 1902, according to
the report of the Census Bureau of the United States, there
Were 300,115 acres, in: 4,557 farms, actually irrigated.
The counties in Colorado, from Caflon City eastward, through
which the Arkansas runs are Fremont, Pueblo, Otero, Bent and
Prowers. The following tables prepared by the defendants
from various census reports show the population, number of
acres cultivated and total value of farm products in these
several counties for the years 1880, 1890' and 1900:

Population.
County.
1880.

1890.

4,735
.9,156
....
Fremont. ..................
31,491
7,617
Pueblo ...................
Otero...................................... .4,192
1,313
.1,654
Bent:
1,969
Prowers ....*......... *...........................
Making in the aggregate..............

14,006

48,121

1900.
15,636
34,448
11,522
3,049
3,766
68,421

KANSAS v. COLORADO.
206 U. S.

County.

109

Opinion of the Court.

No. of acres cultivated.
1880.

Fremont.. 16,160
Pueblo... 51,984
Otero ............
Bent .
30,921
Prowers ..........
98,975

1890.
52,868
100,697
61,347
30,058
46,447

j291,417

1900.

Value of Farm Products.
1880.

1890.

109,488 $ 76,900 $237,980
478,821
136,184
244,580
244,594
208,860
118,485
105,62i
35,070
217,332 .........
60,500
1,168,720

$318,705

$786,990

1900.

$

472,293
691,693
1,089,344
670,541
465,688

$3,389,5b9

These tables disclose a very marked development in the
population, area of land cultivated and amount of agricultural
products. Whatever has been effective in bringing about this
development is certainly entitled to recognition, and should
not be wantonly or unnecessarily destroyed or interfered with.
That this development is largely owing to irrigation is something of which from a consideration of the testimony there
can be no reasonable doubt. It has been a prime factor in
securing this result, and before, at the instance of a sister State,
this effective cause of Colorado's development is destroyed or
materially interfered with, it should be clear that such sister
State has not merely some technical right, but also a right
with a corresponding benefit.
It may be asked why cultivation in Colorado without irrigation may not have the same effect that has attended the cultivation in Kansas west of where it was productive when the
territory was first settled. It may possibly have such effect
to some degree, but it must be remembered that the land in
Colorado is many hundred feet in elevation above that in
Kansas; that large portions of it are absolutely destitute of
sod, and that cultivation would have comparatively little
effect upon the retention of water. Add further the fact that
the rainfall in Colorado is less. than that in Kansas, and it
would seem almost certain that reliance upon mere cultivation of the soil would not have anything like the effect in Colo-

110

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

rado that it has had in Kansas, and that the barrenness which
characterized portions of the territory of Colorado would have
continued for an indefinite time unless relieved by irrigation.
Turning to Kansas, the counties along the Arkansas River,
commencing from the Colorado line are: Hamilton, Kearney,
Finney, Gray, Ford, Edwards, Pawnee, Barton, Rice, Reno,
Sedgwick, Sumner, Cowley. Taking the same years as are
given for the Colorado counties, the population is shown to be:
Population.
County.
1880.

1890.

Hamilton.............................
168
Kearney ..............................
159
Finney
........
Gray. ................................
Ford.............
...
3,122
Edwards............................
2,409
Pawnee .............
.. ..
5,396
Barton ............................
10,318
Rice ............
...............
9,292
Reno ...... ........................
12,826
Sedgwick ...........................
. 18,753
Sumner...............................
20,812
Cowley............................
21,538

2,027
1,571
3,350
2,415
5,308
3,600
5,204
13,172
14,451
27,079
43,626
30,271
34,478

104,793

186,552

1900.

1,426
1,107
3,469
1,264
5,497
3,682
5,084
13,784
14,745
29,027
44,037
25,631
30,156
.178,909

We have been furnished by the United States Census Office
with statistics of the corn and wheat crops of those counties
from the years 1889 to 1904. Corn, wheat and hay are the
leading crops in Kansas. It would unnecessarily prolong this
opinion to copy these tables in full, so we -give the figures for
1890, 1895, 1900 and 1904:

KANSAS v. COLORADO.
Opinion of the Court.

.206 U. S.

Acreage and Production of Corn and Wheat in Kansas-13 Counties.
CORN.
YEAR.

COUNTY.
ACRES.

1890.

Hamilton .........

ACRES.

BUSHELS.

400
8,720
48,460
2,465
12,464
20,580
2,720
25,662
329,520
989,720
744,535
267,680
887,474

449
586
1,410
3,335
7,190
.
8,876
39,464
99,738
52,941
35,121
52,506
134,352
28,073

6,636
10,658
24,740
38,724
107,295
168,094
591,402
1,294,639
792,345
351,210
944,804
2,149,116
282,666

288,322

3,340,400

464,041

6,762,329

Hamilton ..........
404
Kearney..........
914
Finney...........
2,058
Gray......... .....
.1,115
Ford.............
12,145
Edwards .........
21,222
Pawnee.... I .....
19,076
Barton ...........
103,831
Rice..............
153,256
Reno..............
205,745
Sedgwick .........
190,646
Sumner ...........
181,642
Cowley ...........
133,745

3,232
5,698
20,580
11,150
194,320
212,220
152,608
778,732
3,371,632
7,406,820
5,147,442
2,179,704
2,674,900

4,360
2,917
27,428
12,297
36,626
47,479
113,980
179,761
127,200
89,973
93,351
248,115
89,866

12,576
6,430
69,801
12,309
109,914
94,958
342,075
359,284
254,394
314,573
279,711
619,884
673,822

1,025,799 22,159,038

1,073,353

3,149,731

Finney ...........
Gray .............
Ford .............
Edwards... ......
Pawnee ..........
Barton ...........
Rice .............
Reno ..............
Sedgwick .........
Sumner. ; ........
Cowley ............
Totals .......

Totals .......
1900.

BUSHELS.

80
872
2,423
493
1,558
2,058
544
3,666
27,460
98,972
67,685
19,120
63,391

I Kearney ...........

1895.

WHEAT.

Hamilton .......
Kearney ...........
Finney.........
Gray ..............
Ford .............
Edwards........
Pawnee...........
.Barton...........
R ice .............
R eno ..............
Sedgwick .........
Sumner ..........
Cowley..........
Totals .......

266
538
1,213
2,001
11,215
25,032
16,257
32,649
71,151
199,150
.153,635
102,057
121,398

3,990
11,298
18,195
30,015
145,795
325,416
146,313
.261,192
355,755
1,991,500
2,766,430
2,143,197
2,792,154

155
506
427
4,023
23,416
43,525
115,931
254,130
148,597
110,404
123,339
288,133
79,948

1,550
5,492'
4,234
59,605
444,904
696,400
1,969,801
5,081,352
3,120,537
2,097,2,76
2,589,811
5,761,260
1,439,064

736,562

10,991,250

1,192,534

23,271,286

OCTOBER TERM,. 1906.

112

206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Acreage and Production of Corn and Wheat in Kansas-13 Counties-Cont.
CORN.
YEAR .

1904.

WHEAT..

COUNTY.
BUSHELS.

ACRES.

BUSHELS.

ACRES.

Hamilton.........
Kearney..........
Finney ...........
Gray..............
Ford.*
Edwards...........
Pawnee ...........
Barton ............
.
Rice. *..........
Reno .............
Sedgwick.........
Sumner ..........
Cowley...........

120
306
759
1,579
10,631
23,396
.13,272
26,984
59,851
138,899
132,374
79,808
109,708

1,800
6,120
7,590
25,264
170,096
584,900
331,800
728,568
1,556,126
4,028,071
3,441,724
1,995,200
2,962,116

271
536
7,012
17,268
72,917
130,313
162,970
262,673
160,853
207,002
151,635
294,489
68,477

2,297
6,244
37,382
69,590
365,299
1,302,834
1,629,246
3,414,731
2,251,838
3,518,752
1,971,255
3,828,192
821,652

Totals .........

597,687

15,839,375

1,536,416

19,219,312

Comparing the tables of population it will be perceived that
both the -counties in Colorado and Kansas made a considerable
increase in the years from 1880 to 1890; that while the Colorado counties continued their increase from 1890 to 1900, the
Kansas counties lost. As the withdrawal'of water in Colorado
for irrigating purposes became substantially effective about
the year 1890; it might, if nothing else appeared, not unreasonably be concluded that the diminished flow of the river
in Kansas, caused by the action of Colorado, had resulted in
making the land more unproductive, and hence induced settlers to leave the State. As against this it should be noted,
as a matter of history, that in the years preceding 1890, Kansas
passed shrough a period of depression, with crops largely a
failure in different parts of the State. But, more than that,
in 1889 Oklahoma, lying directly south of Kansas, was opened
for settlement and immediately there was a large immigration
into that territory- coming from all parts -of the West, and
especially from the State of Kansas, induced by glowing reports of its great possibilities. The population of Oklahoma,

KANSAS v. COLORADO.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

as shown by the United States census, was, in 1890, 61,834,
and in 1900, 348,331.
Turning to the tables of the corn and wheat products, they
do not disclose any marked injury which can be attributed to
a diminution of the flow of the river: While there is a variance
in the amount produced in the different counties from year to
year, it is a variance no more than that which'will be found
in other parts of the Union, and although the population from
1890 to 1900 in fact diminished, the amount of both the corn
and wheat product largely increased. Not only was tne total
product increased, but the productiveness per acre seems to
have been materially improved. Take the corn crop, and per
acre, it was, in 1890, 12 bushels and a fraction; in 1895, 21 and
a fraction, in 1900, 15, and in 1904, 28 bushels. Of wheat,
the product per acre in 1890 was nearly 15 bushels; in 1895 it
was only about 3 bushels. (For some reason,-while that was
a good year for corn, it seems to have been a bad year for
wheat.) But in 1900 the product per acre rose to 19 bushels,
and in 1904 it was 12 bushels.
These are official figures taken from the United States census
reports, and they tend strongly to show that the withdrawal
of the water in Colorado for purposes of irrigation has not
proved a source of serious detriment to the Kansas counties
along the Arkansas River. It is not strange that the western
counties show the least development, for being nearest the
irrigation in Colorado, they would ba'most affected thereby.
At one time there were some irrigating ditches in these western
counties, which promised to be valuable in supplying water
and thus increasing, the productiveness of the lands in the
vicinity of the stream, and it is true that those ditches have
ceased to be of much yalue, the flow in them having largely
diminished.
It cannot be denied in view of all'the testimony (for that.
which we have quoted is but a sample of much more bearing
upon the question), that the diminution of the flow of water
in the river by the irrigation of Colorado has worked some
VOL. CCVI-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

.detriment to the southwestern part of Kansas, and yet when
we compare the amount of this detriment with the great benefit which has obviously resulted to the counties in Colorado,
it would seem that equality of right and equity between the
two States forbids any interference with the present withdrawal of water in Colorado for purposes of irrigation.
Many other matters have been presented and discussed.
We have examined and fully considered them, but, as heretofore stated, we shall have to content ourselves with merely
general observations respecting them. Evidence has been
offered of an alleged underflow of the river as it passes through
the State of Kansas, and it seems to be the contention on the
part of Kansas that beneath the surface there is, as it were, a
second river with the same course as that on the surface, but
with a distinct and continuous flow as of a separate stream.
We are of the opinion that the testimony does not warrant the
finding of such second and subterranean stream. If the bed
of a stream is not solid rock, but earth through which water
will percolate, and, as alleged in plaintiff's bill, the "valley of
the river in the State of Kansas is composed of sand covered
with alluvial soil," undoubtedly water will be found many feet
below the surface, and' the lighter the soil the more easily will
it find its way downward and the more water will be discoverable by wells or other modes of exploring the subsurface.
Undoubtedly, too, in many places there may be corresponding
to the flow on the surface a current beneath the surface, but
the presence of such subsurface water; even though in places
of considerable amount and running in the same direction, is
something very different from an independent subsurface river
flowing continuously from the Colorado line through the State
of Kansas. It is not properly denominated a second and subsurface stream. It is rather to be regarded as merely the accumulation of water which will always be found beneath the
bed of any stream whose bottom is not solid rock. Naturally,
the-more abundant the flow of the surface stream and the wider
its channel the more of this subsurface water there will be. . If

KANSAS v. COLORADO.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the entire volume of water passing down the surface was taken
away the subsurface water would gradually disappear and in
that way the amount of the flow in the surfaqe channel coming
from Colorado into Kansas may affect the amount of water
beneath the subsurface. As -subsurface water, it percolates on
either side as well as moves along the course of the river, andthe more abundant the subsurface water the further it will
reach in its percolations on either side as well as more distinct
will be its movement down the course of the stream. The testimony, therefore, given in reference to this subsurface water,
its amount and its flow bears only upon the question of the
diminution of the flow from Colorado into Kansas caused by
the appropriation in the former State of the waters for the
purposes of irrigation.
Equally untenable is the contention of Colorado that there
are really two rivers, one commencing in the mountains of
Colorado and terminating at or near the state line, and the
other commencing at or near the place where the former ends,
and from springs and branches starting a new stream to flow
onward through Kansas and Oklahoma towards the Gulf of
Mexico. From time immemorial the existence of a single continuous river has been recognized by geographers, explorers
and travelers. That there is a great variance in the amount
of water flowing down the channel at different seasons of the
year and in different years is undoubted; that at times the
entire bed of the channel has been in places dry is evident
from the testimony. In that way it may be called a broken
river. But this is a fact common to all streams having their
origin in a mountainous region, and whose volume is largely
affected by the melting of the mountain snows. Thus, from
one of complainant's exhibits furnished by the United States
Geological Survey, the mean monthly flow at Cafion City at
the mouth of the Royal Gorge for the years 1890, 1895 and
1900 is as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

Arkansas River-Cahon City. Mean Monthly Discharge in
Second Feet.

January ....................................
February ...................................
March ......................................
April .......................................
May.....................................
June .......................................
July.......................................
August .....................................
September..................................
October ........................
..
.........
November ...................................
December ...................................

1890.

1895.

310
363
320
477
2,090
2,611
1,571
. 670
. 519
531
522
. 502

344
361
471
868
1,506
1,900
1,413
1,095
635
505
499
444

.
.

1900.
a 345
a 353
a 439
736
2,251
3,492
891
273
211
241
2
6Ui
298

a Approximate.

Doubtless the variance at different seasons of the year is
more regular and more pronounced than in those streams
whose sources are only slightly elevated and the rise and fall
of whose, waters is mainly owing to rains. Contrasting, for
instance, the Hudson with the Missouri, illustrates this. When
the June flood comes down the Missouri River it is a mighty
torrent. One can stand on the bluffs at Kansas City and see
an enormous volume of water, extending in width from two
to five miles to the bluffs on the other side of the river, flowing
onward with tremendous velocity and force, and yet at other
times the entire flow of the Missouri River passes between two
piers of the railroad bridge across the river at that point. No
such difference between high and low water appears in the
Hudson. In the days when navigation west of the Mississippi
was largely by steamboats on the Missouri River, it was familiar
experience for the flat-bottomed steamboats, drawing but
little water, to be aground on sandbars and detained for hours
in efforts to cross them. Gen. Doniphan commanded an
expedition which marched from Fort Leavenworth in 1846 up
the 'Arkansas Valley and into the Territory of New Mexico.
He did not enter the valley again until shortly before his death
in 1887, and when asked what he recognized replied that there

KANSAS v. COLORADO.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

were one or two natural objects like Pawnee rock that appeared as they did when he marched up the valley; the river
was the same but all else was changed, and the valley instead
of being destitute of human occupation was filled with farm
houses and farms, villages and cities-something that he had
never expected would be seen in his day.
Summing up our conclusions, we are of the opinion that the
contention of Colorado of two streams cannot be sustained;
that the appropriation of the waters of the Arkansas by.Colorado, for purposes of irrigation, has diminished the flow of
water into the State of Kansas; that the result of that appropriafion has been the reclamation of large areas in Colorado,
transforming thousands of acres into fertile fields and rendering possible their -occupation and cultivation when otherwise
they would have contifiued barren and unoccupied; that while
-the influence of such diminution has been of perceptible injury
to portions of the Arkansas Valley in Kansas, particularly those
portions closest to the Colorado line, yet to the great body of
the valley it has worked little, if any, detriment, and regarding
the interests of both States and the right of each to receive
benefit through irrigatiorr and in any other manner from the
waters of this stream, we are not satisfied that Kansas has
made out a case entitling it to a decree. At the same time it
is obvious that if the depletion of the waters of the river by
Colorado continues to increase there will come a time when
Kansas may justly say that there is no longer an equitable
division of benefits and may rightfully call for relief against
the action of Colorado, its corporations and citizens in appropriating the waters of the Arkansas for irrigation purposes.
The decree which, therefore, will be entered will be one dismissing the petition of the intervenor, without prejudice to the
rights of the United States to take such action as it shall deem
necessary to preserve or improve the navigability of the Arkansas River. The decree will also dismiss the bill of the
State of Kansas as against all the defendants, without prejudice
to the right of the plaintiff to institute new proceedings when -

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
206 U. S.

Syllabus.

ever it shall appear that through a material increase in the
depletion of the waters of the Arkansas by Colorado, its corporations or citizens, the substantial interests of Kansas are being
injured to the extent of destroying the equitable apportionment of benefits between the two States resulting from the flow
of the river. Each party will pay its own costs.
In closing, we may say that the parties to this litigation
have approached the investigation of the questions in the most
honorable spirit, seeking to present'fully the facts as they
could be ascertained from witnesses and discussing the evidence and questions of law with marked research and ability.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

and MR.

JUSTICE MCKENNA

the result.
MR.

JUSTICE MOODY

I

concur in

took no part in the decision of this case.

UNITED STATES v. WILLIAM CRAMP & SONS SHIP &
ENGINE BUILDING COMPANY.
WILLIAM CRAMP & SONS SHIP & ENGINE BUILDING
COMPANY, APPELLANT, v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Nos. 263, 264.

Argued April 18, 19, 1907.-Decided May 13, 1907.

In a contract made between a building company and the United States for
the construction of a battleship at a cost of over three millions of dollars
it was provided that a special reserve of sixty thousand dollars should

be held until the vessel had been finally tried and then paid to the company "on the execution of a final release to the United States in such
form as shall be approved by the Secretary of the Navy, of all claims of
any kind or description under or by virtue of said contract." The vessel
having been built and the final trial had, all moneys were paid on the
execution by the company of a stipulation to "remise, release and forever
discharge the United States of and from all and all manner of debts, dues,
sums and sums of money, accounts, reckonings, claims and demands whatsoever, in law or in equity, for or by reason of or on account of the con.struction of said vessel under the contract aforesaid." Held, that:
In the absence of anything to the contrary, It will be assumed that the release which was executed was the one stipulated for in the original con-

