OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

by disregarding fundamental rules of real property governing
in the island, thereby creating confusion and uncertainty, and
hence tending to the destruction of the rights of innocent third
.parties. Especially is this conclusion rendered necessary when
a consideration, previously adverted to, is again called to mind,
that is, that all the local law of Port6 Rico is within the legislative control of Congress. The considerations which we have
thus expounded are illustrated in various other aspects by
previous rulings, concerning the construction and import of
the Foraker Act. Crowley v. United States, 194 U. S. 461;
Rodriguez v. United States, 198 U. S. 156; Seralles v. Esbri, 200
U.,S. 103; American R. Co. v.Castro, 200 U. S. 453.
The decree of the District Court for Porto Rico must be reversed,
and the cause remanded for further proceedings conformable
to this opinion.

UNITED STATES v. HEINSZEN & COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE. COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 580.

Congress in dealing
authority to such
agents as fully as
act of Congress.
The act of June 30,

Argued April 9, 10, 1907.-Decided May 27, 1907.

with the Philippine Islands may delegate legislative
agencies as it may select and may ratify the acts of
if such acts had been specially authorized by a prior
1906, 34 Stat. 636, legalizing and ratifying the imposi-

tion and collection of duties by the authorities of the United States in
the. Philippine Islands prior to March 8, 1902, was within the power of
Congress and can be given effect without depriving persons who had paid
such duties of their property without due process of law or taking their
property for public use without compensation in violation of the Fifth.
Amendment.
The mere commencement of a suit does not affect the right of Congress to
ratify executive acts and the fact that at the time the ratifying statute
was enacted actions were pending for the recovery of sums paid does not
cause the statute to be repugnant to the Constitution. References in
De Lima v. Bidwell, 182 U. S., as to want of power to ratify after suit
brought are to be regarded as obiter dida.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

370

UNITED STATES v. HEINSZEN & CO.
206 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

The Attorney General, the Solicitor General and Mr. Assistant
Attorney General Van Orsdel, with whom Mr. George M. Anderson was on the brief, for appellant:
This case is essentially different from the case of Warner.,
Barnes & Co. v. United States, 197 U. S. 419. "The judgment
in that case was res adjudicataonly of the issue then.presented,
of the facts as they then appeared, and of the legislation then
existing." Utter v. Franklin, 172 U. S. 416. Here the issues
are altogether new-the lack of protest and the power of
Congress to ratify under the new act of 1906. The matter. of
protest .was not raised before until rehearing, and the court will
recall the suggestion then made from the bench that the defense
came too late. Here it has been emphasized from the start.
The petition asserts actual duress because the regulations
provided that vessels should be placed under military guard
until discharge. That regulation applied, of course,, to all
vessels, and would excuse failure to protest on importations
from foreign countries as well as from the United States. The
phrase "military guard" means only customs control, and, that
is the very term employed in the amendment to this particular
paragraph of the regulations dated May 24, 1899. The law
and customs regulations of the United States require exactly
the same control by boarding, examination and custody pending discharge under civilian inspectors. If this was duress,
then the same compulsion and-extortion to prevent smuggling
and secure duties are practiced daily at all ports of the United
States.
If there is no.compulsion, payment: is voluntary and protest
will not avail. Where there can be a recovery, protest is
necessary. It is so in all tax cases and especially in customs
cases.
Protest is doubtless and necessarily a rule of all customs
law. It was the rule of the Spanish law of the Philippines,
which was equivalent to an express statute. It was the rule
of these regulations (par. 10). Of course this is a customs case,
although not one under the Customs Administrative Act of

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellant.

206 U. S.

the United States. Counsel say not, that it is military contribution. But their previous victory rested on the basis that the
military exaction ceased on April 11, 1899.
There was no protest or objection whatever here. The claim
was an afterthought, and the courts do not regard that position
with favor. It is noticed in Dewell v. Mix, 116 Fed. Rep.,
a customs case; and in similar terms in Newhall v. Jordan,
149 Fed. Rep., advance sheets, and the objection is concisely
put in the Chesebrough case, 192 U. S. 253; and see also the
Ednmonston case, 181 U. S. 504.
. No distinction can be drawn because here the suit is against
the United States and not against the agent. Elliott v. Swartwout, 10 Pet. 153.
The act of 1906 encounters the limitations of De Lima vi
Bidwell, 182 U. S. 1, and has done so in clear terms, from
which there is no escape so far as intention is concerned.
De Lima v. Bidwell simply holds that an act not retroactive
in terms could not have that effect as to duties theretofore
paid under protest for which an action to recover back had
already been-brought.
But see Grim v. School District, dealing with taxation for
the public use, to effect that if an act of assembly be within
the legitimate scope of legislative power, it is not a valid objection that it divests vested rights even. after suit brought;
that if the legislature had the antecedent power to authorize
a tax, they could cure a want of authority as well as a mere
irregularity in levying it by a retroactive law. If the use is
public, if it is taxation, the rule against divesting vested rights
for private benefit does not apply. It was not the less taxation
because the tax was levied without authority at the time,
and the question now is as to the effect of the validating act.
It was taxation and just taxation although not valid taxation.
There was due process of law through protest and appeal
which the claimants failed to invoke at the proper time. The
claimants have no- equities; they collected the duties from
their customers and they :received the usual compensation

UNITED STATES v. HEINSZEN & CO.
206 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

for a tax in the maintenance of a Government which made

life and property safe and their business possible. In the
De Lima case the retroactive intention and effect were not
clear, and protest was duly made. Here the case is quite
otherwise as to both matters.
This is a question of constitutional power, not of expediency
or even fairness, although no just mind need shrink from
giving full effect to this law on the ground that it is repugnant
to the spirit of our institutions or the principles of natural
justice.
Counsel say that our authorities do not apply because
before the Fourteenth Amendment was adopted the only ri
straint on the ,States in this dofnain was as to impairing the
obligation of contracts or passing ex post facto laws. There
is no case which says that the law which did noi impair a
contract or was not ex post facto was not however due process
of law and yet could be enforced. For the most part the
authorities on retroactive legislation cited in the opposing
brief either do not refer to taxation at all but to the familiar
case (as in Wilkinson v. Leland, Palairet's Appeal, etc.) of
transferring the property of A. to B. and thus divesting vested
estates; or else, in the tax cases, the citizen had never had his
day in court at all, at any time, or the act was only intended
to cure irregularities-and not to validate a total want of authority.
As to what is a vested right see Kent's definition, "An immediate right of present enjoyment or a present fixed right of
future enjoyment;" and Cooley's, "Rights are vested in contradistinction to being expectant or contingent. They are
vested when the right of enjoyment, present or prospective,
has become the property of some particular person or persons,
as a present interest." Now if our military authorities should
take some tangible piece of property for the use of the Quartermaster's Department, 'let us say, without any relation, of
course, to the owner's obligation to contribute his share .to
the supporf of Government, that would be a taking of private

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellees.

206 U. S.

property for, public use, and compensation would be due.
That right would be vested by the Constitution. The right
here involved is property, in a qualified sense, because it is a
right of action; but it is not a vested right. It is not manifestly
contingent-a mere right of action. Such a right of action is
not to be regarded as vesting or as constituting property until
recovery has been finally adjudged. The bringing of suit is
the mere assertion of an undetermined right. Before judgment all is contingent; the right is inchoate, not complete;
there is a right to bring suit which may of course be taken
away bef6re suit brought, but the included and underlying
right of property into which the action may eventually ripen
is only inchoate. Evans v. McFadden, 105 Fed. Rep. 293,
affirmed 185 U. S. 505.
By the act of 1906 Congress did not take any right of the
claimants vested beyond the power of the legislature. The
fact that the right will not be beyond controversy unless and
until this court adjudges this case in their favor is proof of
that statement. The act in effect said, as it constitutionally
might do-In these cases the United States, the sovereign,
declines to be sued; it withdraws its consent; so far at least
as such claims are concerned, not already reduced to judgment, it denies the right to sue.
Mr. FredericR. Coudert and Mr. Henry M. Ward, with whom
Mr. John G. Carlisle and Mr. Paul Fuller were on the brief,
for' appellees:
The decisions of this court in De Lima v. Bidwell, Dooley v.
United States and Lincoln and Warner Barnes v. United States
hold that Congress has.-not the power to ratify the collection
of moneys exacted without warrant of Jaw under the circumstances disclosed by the record now before the court.
As to the power of-Congress to ratify the illegal exaction of
moneys after suit brought for their recovery, see De Lima v.
Bidwell, 182 U. S. 1, 199.
Legislatures cannot by retroactive laws impair vested

UNITED STATES v. HEINSZEN & CO.
206 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

rights without violating the provision common to both state
and Federal constitations-that no man shall be deprived
of his property without due process of law. Kennett's Petition, 24'N. H. 139; Alter's Appeal, 67 Pa. St. 341; Norman v.
Heist, 5 W. & S. 171; Donovan v. Pitcher, 53 Alabama, 411;
Palairet'sAppeal, 67 Pa. St. 479; State v. Warren, 28 Maryland, 338.
Congress cannot validate the illegal action of the officers of
the Government in exacting moneys from these claimants
under the guise of duties but without any warrant of law,
after, as in the case at bar, suit has been instituted for their
recovery.
"The supposition that the Government will not pay its
debts, or will not do justice is not to be indulged." Gibbons v.
United States, 8 Wall. 274.
The act of 1906 must not be interpreted as in conflict with
De Lima v. Bidwell and Warner, Barnes & Co. v. United States,
unless no other construction can be adopted. If the court cannot adopt the construction suggested, then the decisions of this
court in De Lima v. Bidwell and the Lincoln and Warner Barnes
case on this point are conclusive and require this court to hold
that with respect to the rights of these claimants and of others
similarly situated, the act of June 30, 1906, is of no effect.
In view of the findings of fact in the case at bar, the decision
of this court in Dooley v. United States, and Lincoln and Warner
Barnes v. United States, are conclusive upon the question of
voluntary payment.
The facts as found by the Court of Claims in this case establish the legal conclusion that the payment of the duties was
involuntary.
The final fact to be ascertained by the court must be not
what was the actual state of mind of the plaintiff but what,
under the circumstances of the particular case was his "legal
state of mind;" whether a volunteer or a victim of overweening necessity. Maxwell v. Griswold, 10 How. 242, 256;
Robertson v; Frank Brothers, 132 U. S. 17, 22,.23; 1 Wharton on'

" 376

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellees.

206 U. S.

Contracts, § 147; Hackley v. Headley, 45 Michigan, 569, 574,
576.
The rule of law being thus clearly settled,, what were the
admitted, unquestioned facts in this case -from which the
court must conclude that the payment was involuntary?
When the complainahts' vessel arrived from the domestic
port of New York at the equally domestic port of Manilla she
found herself and her cargo in possession of Federal troops,
whose presence, however otherwise desirable, was designed
to and very effectually did prevent claimants from taking
possession of their goods and plying their trade. This situation,
so obviously detrimental to plairitiff'9 property and business,
could. only be effectually determined by his paying the ransom
demanded, i. e., the alleged duties or military contributions-.
admittedly illegal exactions,
It is true they might have relinquished the goods to the
military guard and abandoned their business and property,
or again they might have sailed away, but as this court h'rs
said this was only a choice of evils and one which they were
not bound to make. It was in fact no choice at all since the
theory of free will cannot hold its own against the doctrine
of inevitable necessity in the form of imminent and potentially
persuasive bayonets.
The importer whose gnods are in the safe-keeping of Krag
Jorgensens over whose action he has no control, cannot be
successfully likened to the man who buys- a revenue stamp
from the peaceful apothecary and then sues the Government,
on the ground that he feared the law. if he did not stamp his
manifest.
I The act of June -30, 1906; in so far as it attempts to deprive
claimants here of their right to the moneys which the United
States have in their hands justly and equitably belonging to
claimants is unconstitutional and void.
The Constitution is everywhere applicable to the actions
of. the Government, the only open question being as to which
clauses extend to governmental operation in the new and as

UNITED STATES v. HEINSZEN & CO.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

yet "unincorporated" possessions acquired from Spain by the
Treaty of Paris. Dorr v. United States, 195 U. S. 138.
The right to property is fundamental and Congress can no
more resort to confiscation in the new lands than elsewhere
in our broad domain. United States v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196;
Sinking Fund Cases, 99 U. S. 710, 738; Dent v. West Virginia,
129 U. S. 114, 124.
It is immaterial that the taking of property assumes the
guise of taxation: in determining what is due process of law
regard must be had to substance, not to form. Chicago R. R.
Co. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226, 235; Union Transit Co. v. Ky.,
199 U. S. 194; Angle v. Chicago R. R. Co., 151 U. S. 1, 19;
Sturgis v. Carter, 114 U. S. 511, 519; United States v. Burr,
159 U. S. 78, 84, 85.
The section of the act of June 30, 1906, under consideration
is in substance and effect an ex post facto law prohibited by
Art. 1, § 9 of the Constitution. It deprives claimants and
others similarly situated of their :property, of 'their money
held by the United States. The term ex post lacto has reference to crimes and penalties, but the question is not of the
form of the enactment but of its substance and effect.
The substance and effect of this act is to deprive claimants
of their property. That is a penalty, a punishment in substance
as much as though it were a fine. A fine would have been ex
post facto, a penalty for having done an act innocent at the
time it was done. There is no difference in substance and
effect between such a fine and this act now before us. The
substance and effect are the same; the difference is in form
and verbiage only. The prohibitions in the Constitution are
not to be evaded by mere matter of form. These prohibitions
annul every act by which the result which they were intended
to prevent might be accomplished. Cummings v. Missouri,
4 Wall. 277, 325.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.

In an endeavor to clarify the consideration of this contro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

versy we invert somewhat the order in which the facts have
been stated in the findings below and refer to previous rulings
of this court pertinent to thesubject in hand, besides supplementing the same by a reference to relevant matters of public
history, of which we take judicial notice.
After the Philippine Islands came under the military control of the United States the President, on July 12, 1898, issued
an order providing for the enforcement by the military power
in those islands of a system of tariff duties. This order, promulgated by the Secretary of War, was accompanied with an
enumeration of the tariff proposed and regulations for the
collection of the same. However, for causes which need not
be referred to, the tariff in question was subsequently modified
and did not go into operation until November, 1898.
The duties imposed by this tariff were levied on goods coming into the Philippine Islands, whether from the United States
or other countries. This tariff was in force. when the treaty
of peace was signed (December 10, 1898), when the treaty
was ratified (April 11, 1899), and was continued by the Philippine Commission appointed by the President in April, 1900.
Indeed, the civil government, as established in the islands
by the President, either in virtue of his inherent authority or
as a result of the power recognized and conferred by the act'
of Congress, approved March 2, 1901 (31 Stat. L..910), continued the original tariff in force, except as to some modifications not material to be noticed, and formulated its provisions
in the shape of a legislative act entitled "An act to revise and
amend the tariff laws of the Philippine Archipelago." And
this tariff was in force in March, 1902, when it was expressly
approved and continued by Congress. 32 Stat. 54.
In December, 1901, the cases of De Lima V. Bidwell and
Dooley v. United States were, by this court, decided. 182
U. S. 1, 222. The first case involved the right to recover duties
paid under protest to the collector of the port of New-York
-upon sugar brought' into the United. States from the island of
Porto Rico during the autumn of 1899 and subsequent to

UNITED STATES v. HEINSZEN & CO.
206 U. S.

1 379

Opinion of the Court.

the cession of the island. The second case involved the right
to recover the amount of certain duties on goods carried into
Porto Rico from the United States between July 6, 1898, and
May 1, 1900, the duties in question having been levied by
authority of the general in command of the army of occupation or subsequently by order of the President as commanderin-chief. In the first case (De Lima v. Bidwell) it was decided
that, as the effect of the ratification of the treaty was to take
the island of Porto Rico out of the category of foreign territory
within the meaning of that word as used in existing tariff laws
of the United States, no right remained to enforce, against
goods coming -from Porto Rico into the United States, the
previously enacted tariff of duties, although, considering the
terms of the treaty and the relation of the island to the United
States, Congress had power to impose a tariff on goods coming
from that island into the United States. As a corollary of the
doctrine announced in De Lima v. Bidwell, in the second case
(Dooley v. The United Stites) it was held that whilst the President, as commander-in-chief, had authority to impose tariff
duties in Porto Rico on goods coming into that country from
the United States prior to the ratification of the treaty, no
such executive power existed after that ratification. It was
consequently held that none of the duties paid prior to the
ratification of the treaty could be recovered,. whilst those paid
subsequently could be.
In the following year (December 2, 1901) another case,
entitled Dooley v. The United States, was decided. 183 U. S.
151. That case involved the validity of tariff duties levied
in Porto Rico on goods brought into that island from the
United States, the duties in question having been imposed
after the ratification of the treaty and in and by virtue of the
act of Congress known as the Foraker Act. Applying the
principles announced in the' previous cases just referred to,
it was held that the duties were lawful because, although
collected after the ratification, they were imposed not simply
by virtue of the. authority of the President, acting under.

380-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

the military power, but in conformity to a valid act of Congress.
And on the same day with the foregoing the case of Fourteen
Diamond Rings was decided. 183 U. S. 176. That case involved the validity of tariff duties levied on diamond rings
brought from the Philippine Islands into the United States.
Adhering to the doctrine settled by the prior rulings, it was
held that, as the Philippine Islands, by the ratification of the
treaty, had ceased to be foreign within the meaning of the
tariff laws, the imposition of the duties complained of was
unlawful. In the course of the opinion the effect of the treaty
as applied in the previous cases to Porto Rico waA pointed out,
and the status of the Philippine Islands in virtue of the treaty
was, in effect, held to be controlled by the former decisions.
In April, 1905, the two cases of Lincoln v. The United States
and Warner, Barnes & Co., Limited, v. The United States were
by this court decided. 197 U. S. 419: The cases came here
one on error to the District Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York, and the other by appeal from
the Court of Claims. The one (Lincoln case) was commenced
on March 29, 1902; the other (Warner, .3arnes & Co. case) on
January 17, 1902. In both cases recovery from the United
States was sought of the amount of duty paid upon goods
taken from the United States into the Philippine Islands after
the ratification of the treaty with Spain and before the passage
of the act of Congress of March 8, 1902. Reversing the judgments which had been rendered below in both cases in favor
of the United States, it was declared that there was nothing
in the situation of the Philippine Islands which took that
territory out of the reach of the doctrine announced in the
previous cases which we have reviewed, and it was therefore
decided that the President was without power, after the ratification of the treaty, in the absence of express authority from
Congress, to impose the tariff duties in question. A contention
on the part of the United States that Congress by the second
section of the act approved July 1, 1902 (entitled "An act

UNITED STATES v. HEINSZEN & CO.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

temporarily to provide for the administration of the affairs of
civil government in the Philippine Islands, and for other purposes"), had ratified the action of the President in imposing
and collecting the duties in cntroversy, therefore no recovery
could be had, was held to be unfounded, for grounds stated in
the opinion, to which we shall hereafter advert. The case was
heard upon rehearing, and in a decision announced on May 28,
1906, the views previously entertained by the court were
reiterated and adhered to. 202 U. S. 484. In the month
following (June, 1906) Congress passed an act containing a
provision which reads as follows (34 Stat. L. 636):
"That the tariff duties, both import and export, imposed
b*y the authorities of the United States or of the provisional
military government thereof in the Philippine Islands prior to
March eight, nineteen hundred and two, at all ports and places
in said islands, upon all goods, wares, and merchandise imported into said islands from the United States, or from foreign
countries, or exported from said islands, are hereby legalized
and ratified, and the collection of all such duties prior to March
eight, nineteen hundred and two, is hereby legalized and ratified
and confirmed as fully to all intents and purposes as if the same
had by prior act of Congress been specifically authorized and
directed."
Now this case was commenced, after the decision in the
Fourteen Diamond Rings, to recover the amount of tariff
duties exacted in the Philippine Islands on merchandise brought
from the United States, the duties having been collected under
the authority of the order of the President after the ratification
of the treaty, but before the time when Congress, by § 1 of the
act of March 8, 1902, had enacted tariff duties for the Philippine Islands. The case was pending in the Court of Claims when
the Lincoln and Warner, Barnes & Co. cases were decided by
.this cQurt. It was found by the court below that the military
officers of the United States collected the duties and paid over
the amount thereof to the treasurer of the Philippine Islands,
and that the money was disbursed for the expenses of that

382

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

government without going into the Treasury of the United
States. Considering that the original illegality of the duties
complained of was established by the previous decisions of this
court and that the act of Congress of June 30, 1906, ratifying
the collection of duties was beyond the power of Congress to
enact, the court below rendered judgment against the United
States for the amount of duties paid.
Applying the doctrine settled by this court in the cases to
which we have referred, concerning the power to levy tariff
duties under the authority of the President, on goods taken
from the United States into Porto Rico and the Philippine
Islands, or brought into the United States from either of such
countries subsequent to the ratification of the treaty and prior
to the levy by Congress of tariff duties, it is obvious that the
court below correctly held that such tariff exactions were illegal.
It follows therefore that the only question open for consideration is whether the court below erred in refusing to give effect
to the act of Congress of June 30, 1906, which ratified the collection of the duties levied under the order of' the President.
As the text of the act of Congress is unambiguous and manifests as explicitly as can be done the purpose of Congress to
ratify, the case comes to the simple question whether Congress
possessed the power to ratify which it assumed to exercise.
When the controversy is thus reduced to its ultimate issue we
think the error committed by the court below, both in reason
and authority, is readily demonstrable.
That where an agent, without precedent authority, has exercised in the name of a principal a power which the principal
had the capacity to bestow, the principal.may ratify and affirm
the unauthorized act, and thus retroactively give it validity
when rights of third persons have not intervened, is so elementary as to need but statement. *That the power of ratification
as to matters within their authority may be exercised by Congress, state governments or municipal corporations, is also
elementary. We shall not stop to review'the whole subject or
cite the numerous cases coutained in. the books dealing with

UNITED STATES v. HEINSZEN & CO.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the matter, but content ourselves with referring to two cases
as to the power of Congress, which are apposite and illustrative.
In Hamilton v. Dillin, 21 Wall. 73, the facts were as follows:
.During the Civil War the Secretary of the Treasury, with the
sanction of the President, adopted rules and regulations for
granting permits to trade between the belligerent lines. One of
these rules exacted the payment of a contribution, styled a fee,
of four cents a pound on cotton purchased. Hamilton having
taken a permit and paid Dillin, surveyor of the port of Nashville, Tennessee, under the regulations, a sum of money for a
permit to trade in cotton, sued to recover the same as having
been illegally exacted. In deciding the case .(p. .88) the court
came to consider whether "the action of the executive was authorized, or, if not originally authorized, was confirmed by
Congress." Both these questions were determined in the affirmative. When the court came to consider the legislation relied
upon as.having confirmed the-acts of the President in establishing the regulations in question, after stating the same the
court'declared, "We are also of opinion that the act of July 2,
1864, recognized and confirmed the regulations in question."
Mattingly v. The District of Columbia, 97 U. S. 687, concerned
the.validity of an act of Congress in effect confirming the doings
of the board of public works of the District of Columbia touching the improvement of streets and roads and ratifying certain
void assessments for street improvements. The court said
(p. 690):
"We do not propose to inquire whether the charges of the
bill are well founded. ^Such an inquiry can have no bearing
upon-the case as it now stands; for were it conceded that the
board of public works had no authority to do the work that
was done at the time when it was done, and consequently no
authority to make an assessment of a part of its cost upon the
complainant's property, or to assess in the manner in which
the assessment was made, the concession would not dispose of
the case, or establish that the complainants have a right to the
equitable relief for which they pray. There has been Congres-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

sional legislation since 1872, the effect of which upon the assessments is controlling. There were also acts of the legislative
assembly of the District, which Very forcibly imply a confirmation of the acts and assessments of the board of which the bill
complains. If Congress or the legislative assembly had power
to commit to the board the duty of making the improvements,
and the power to prescribe that the assessments should be made
in the manner in which they were made, it had power to ratify
the acts which it might have authorized. And the ratification,
if 'made, was equivalent to an original authority, according to
the maxim, 'Omnis ratihabitio retrotrahitur et mandato priori
wquiparatur.' U der the Constitution Congress had power to
exercise exclusive legislation in all cases whatsoever over the
District, and this includes the power of taxation. Cohen v.
Virgiiia, 6 Wheat. 264. Congress may legislate within the
District; respecting the people and property therein, as may the
legislature of any State over any of its subordinate municipalities. It -may therefoie cure irregularities, and confirm proceedings which without the confirmation would be void, because
unauthorized, provided such confirmation does not interfere
with intervening rights."
It is then evident, speaking generally, both on principle and
authority, that Congress had the power to pass the ratifying
act of June 30, 1906, and that that act bars the plaintiff's right
to recover, unless by theapplication of some exception this case
is taken out of the operation of the general rule. And this
brings us to consider the several propositions relied upon at
bar to establish that such is the case.
First. Whilst it is admitted that Congress had the power to
levy tar iff duties on goods coming into the United States from
the Philippine Islands or coming into such islands from the
United States after the ratification of the treaty, it is yet urged
that as that body was without authority to delegate to the
President the legislative power of prescribing a tariff of duties,
it hence ,could not by ratification make valid the exercise by
the President of a legislative authority which could not have

UNITED -STATES v. HEINSZEN & CO.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

been delegated to him in the first instance. But the premise
upon which this proposition rests presupposes that Congress in
dealing with the Philippine Islands may not, growing out of
the relation of those islands to the United States, delegate legislative authority toP such agencies as it may select, a proposition.
which is not now open for discussion. Dorr v. United States,
195 U.'S. 133.
Second. As the-duties collected were illegal, it is insisted that
for the purpose of testing the validity of the act of Congress
the fact of such collection must be put out of view, and the act
ratifying the exaction must'be treated as if it were solely an
original exercise by Congress of the taxing powel:, This being
done, it is said, reduces the case to the inquiry, Had.Congress'
power, 'years after goods which were entitled to free entry had
been brought into the Philippine. Islands, to retroactively impose tariff duties upon the consummated act of bringing the
goods into that country? But the proposition begs the question
for decision, by shutting out from view the potential fact that
when the goods were brought into 'the Philippine Islands there
was a tariff in existence -under which duties were exacted in
the name of the. United States. Indeed the contention goes
further even than this, since it entirely disregards the important
consideration that although the duties were illegally exacted
the illegality was not the result of an inherent want of power in
the United States to have authorized the imposition of the
duties, but simply arose from the failure to delegate to the.
official. the authority essential to give immediate validity to
his conduct in enforcing the payment of the duties.. And when,
these. misconceptions are borne. in. mind it results that the unsoundness of the pfoposition'relied upon is demonstrated by.
the application of the elementary principle, of ratification to
which we have' previously referred.' Moreover, the-fallacy
.which the proposition involves becomes yet more obvious when
it is observed that the contention cannot' even be formulated
without misstating the nature of the act of Congress; in other
words,, without treating that act as retrospective,(legislation
voi.. cov-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

enacting a tariff, when on its very face the act is but an exercise
of the conceded power dependent upon the law of agency to
ratify an act done on behalf of the United States which the
United States could have originally authorized.
Third. It is urged that the ratifying statute cannot be given
effect without violating the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution, since to give efficacy to the act would deprive the claimants
of their property without due process of law, or would appropriate the same for public use without just compensation.
This rests'upon these two contentions: It is said that the money
paid to discharge the illegally exacted duties after payment, as
before, "justly and,equitably belonged" to the claimants, and
that the, title thereto continued in them as a vepted right of.
prbperty. It is consequently insisted that the right to recover
the money could not be taken away without violating the Fifth
Amendment, as statpd. But here, again, the argument disregards the fact that when the duties were illegally exacted in
the name of the United States Congress possessed the power to
have authorized their imposition in the mode in Which they were
enforced, and hence from the very moment of collection a rightin Congress to ratify the transaction, if it saw fit to do'so, was
engendered. In other words, as a necessary result of the power
to ratify, it followed that the right to recover the duties in
question Was subject tb the exercise by Congress 6f its undoubted power to ratify. To.hold to the contrary would be to
say that whilst the unauthorized act of an officer done on behalf
of the. United States was subject to ratification by the United
States, yet if the officer acted without authority the act when
performed annihilated the power to ratify; that is, that the very
condition which engendered- the power destroyed it,
But if it be conceded that the claim to a return of the moneys
paid in discharge of the exacted duties was in a sense a vested
right, it in principle, as we'have already observed, would be but
the 'character of right referred to by Kent in his Commentaries,
where, in treating of the validity of statutes retroactively operating on certain classes of rights, it is said (Vol. 2. pp. 4 15 , 416):

UNITED STATES v. HEINSZEN & CO.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"The legal rights affected in those cases by the statutes were
deemed to have been vested subject to the equity existing
against them, and which the statutes recognized and enforced.
Goshen v. Stonington, 4 Connecticut 209; Wilkinson v. Leland,
2 Peters, 627; Langdon v. Strong, 2 Vermont, 234; Watson v.
Mercer, 8 Peters, 88; 3 Story's Comm. on the Constitution, 267."
Nor does the mere fact that at the time the ratifying statute
was enacted this, action was pending for the recovery of the
sums paid cause the statute to be repugnant to 'the Constitution. The mere commencement of the suit did not change the
nature of the right. Hence again if it be conceded that the
capacity to prosecute the pending suit to judgment was in a
sense a vested right, certainly also the power of the United
States to ratify was, to say the least, a right of as high a character. To arrogate to themselves the authority to divest the
right of the United State§ to ratify is then in reason the assumption upon which the asserted right of the claimants to recover
must rest.
Considering how' far the bringing of actions would operate
to deprive government of the power to enact curative statutes
which, if the actions had not been.brought, would have been
unquestionably valid, Cooley, in his Cofistitutional Limitations, says (7th ed., p. 543):
"Nor is it important, in any of the cases to which we have
referred, that the legislative act,, which cures the irregularity,
defect or want of original authority, was passed after suit
brought, in which such irregularity or defect, became matter of
importance. The bringing of suits vests in a party no right to
a particular decision; Bacon V. Callender, 6 Massachusetts, 303;
Butler v. Palmer, 1 Hill, 324; Cowgill V. Long, 15 Illinois, 202;
Miller v. Graham, 17 Ohio St. 1; State v. Squires, 26 Iowa, 340;
Pattersonv. Philbrook, 9 Massachusetts, 151, and his case must
be determined on the law as it stands, not when the suit was
brought, but wh~n the judgment is rendered. Watson v. MercIer, 8 Pet. 88; Mather v. Chapman, 6 Connecticut, 54; People v.
Supervisors &c., 20 Michigan, 95; Satterlee v. Matthewson, 16

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

S. & R. 169, "and 2 Pet. 380; Excelsior Mfg. Co. v. Keyser, 62
Mississippi, 155; Phenix Ins. Co. v. Pollard,-63 Mississippi, 641;
McLane v. Bonn, 70 Iowa, 752, 30 N. W. Rep. 478; Johnson v.
Richardson, 44 Ark. 365.

.

.

And the following cases, in various forms, illustrate the application of the principle: United States v. Morris, 10 Wheat. 246;
Grim v. School Dist., 57 Pa. St. 433) 438; City of Chester v.
Black, 132 Pa. St. 568; Price v. Huey, 22 Indiana, 18; Welch v.
Wadsworth, 30 Connecticut, 149, 158; Rich v. Flanders,39 N. H.
310, 311; Iowa Railroad Land Co. v. Soper, 39 Iowa, 112, 119;
Ferry v. Campbell, 110 Iowa, 290; M1fills v. Geer, 111 Georgia,
275, 279, 287, 288.
Fourth. Aside, however, from principle and the general
result of the adjudged cases, it is finally insisted that the want
of power in Congress to ratify the collection of the duties in
question under the circumstances here disclosed conclusively
results from the decision in.De Lima v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 1.
As we have seen, that case concerned the validity of collections
of duties in the port of New York on goods brought into the
United States from Porto Rico, and whilst insisting on the
legality of the duties, the Government at the same time urged
that; even if originally invalid, they had yet been ratified as
the result of provisions of a specified act of Congress which had
been passed after the suit to recover the duties had been commenced. As that portion of the duties sued for which had been
collected after ratification of the treaty were decided to be
illegal, it followed that a decision as to the question of ratification was required. In passing upon the subject, after intimating doubt as to whether the act relied upon, as manifesting the
intention of Congress to ratify, was intended to have that effect,
it was remarked (p. 199):
"It can clearly have no retroactive effect as to moneys theretofore paid under protest, for which an action to recover back had
already
been brought, As the action in this case was brought
March 13,
1900, eleven days before the act was passed,
the right
to recover the money sued for could not be taken away by a

UNITED STATES v. HEINSZEN & CO.
206 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

subsequent act of Congress. Plaintiffs sue in assumpsit for
money which the collector has in his hands, justly and equitably
belonging to them. To say that Congress could by a subsequent
act deprive them of the right to prtse'ute this action, would
be beyond its power. In any event, it should not be interpreted
so as to make it retroactive. Kennett's Petition, 24 N. H. 139;
Alter's Appeal, 67 Pa. St..341; Normanv. Heist, 5 W. & S. 171;
Donovan v. Pitcher, 53 Alabama, 411; Palairet'sAppeal- 67 Pa.
St. 479; State v. Warren, 28 Maryland, 338."
Now, considering the language just quoted in connection
with the doubt expressed as to the import of the alleged ratifying Statute, it results that the reasoning employed stated two
considerations, first, the want of po.er in Congress to ratify
after suit brought; and second, the duty of construing the statute relied upon so as not to produce ratification, in view of its
ambiguity. As the question of construction was last stated and
that question was declared to be "in any event" decisive, we
think the observations made concerning the want of .power to
ratify after suit brought must be regarded as not having -been
necessary to the decision rendered, and therefore must be
treated as obiter. And this interpretation was, we think,
applied in the cases of Lincoln v. Uiited States and Warner,
Barnes & Co. v. United States, supra. •In those cases, as we
have said, one of the defenses insisted upon by the Government
was a ratification alleged to have been operated by the act of
Congress of July 1, 1902, which was passed after the bringing
of the actions to recover. It is patent on the face of the opinion
announced on the original hearing that the decision Was exclusively based upon the ground that the act of Congress was
so ambiguous concerning the ratification relied upon that it
should not be implied that such ratification was contemplated.,
And it is to be observed that De Lima v. Bidwell was not overloked, since that case was referred to in the course of the
opinion. On the rehearing the case was argued On questions submitted by the court, viz., whether the act relied upon manifested the purpose to ratify, and if it did, whether Congress had

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

power so to do. In the opinion on the rehearing, while the
court reiterated the view previously expressed, that the act
could not be treated as ratifying the collection of the duties
sought to be recovered because of its ambiguity in that regard,
yet itexpressly recognized the power in Congress to ratify, and
in effect declared thatas to those things to which the alleged
ratifying act clearly applied ratification had resulted. This is
so, since in the course of the opinion, in answering the argument
that the alleged ratifying statute would be meaningless unless
it was held applicable to the particular duties in controversy,
it was pointed out (p. 499) that there were duties which had
been levied and collected other than those in controversy to
which the act clearly applied, and "that question (as to them)
was put at rest by this ratification." Further, in calling attention to the ambiguity in the ratifying statute relied upon and
the resulting doubt whether it embraced all duties, it was
pointed out-that the fact that actions were pending at the time
of the passage of the ratifying act lent cogency to the view that
if Congress had intended by the ratification to affect them, it
would have' explicitly so declared. On this subject the court
said (p. 498):
"This construction is favored by the consideration that the
suits had been. begun when the act of July 1, 1902, was passed,
and that, even if Congress could deprive plaintiffs of their
vested rights in process of being asserted, Hamilton v. Dillin,
21 Wall. 73, still it is not to be presumed to do so on language
which, literally taken, has a narrower sense."
Certainly, this language, particularly in view of the reference
made to Hamilton v. Dillin, is wholly incompatible with the
conception that the observation As to pending actions made in
De Lima v: Bidwell was to be taken as having settled the proposition that a power to ratify which otherwise obtained could
not be exerted after suit brought.
Be this as it may, however, as after deliberate consideration
we are of opinion that the mere bringing of this action did not
deprive Congress of its power to ratify the collections made by

UNITED STATES v. HINSZEN & CO.
206 U. S.

Harlan, J., condurring.

its officers in the Dame- of the United States of the moneys
sought to be recovered in this action,, we may not allow the
remarks made in De Lima v. Bidwell under,.the circumstances
stated to-,control our judgment.
There was much discussion at bar concerning whether the "
payments of the duties were voluntary. AS it would seem that
the circumstances surrounding these payments were substantially like unto those existihg in the Lincoln and Warner, Barnes
& Co. cases, in which the opinions of the court made no reference
to the question of voluntary payment; we have concluded to
pass, that question by, as our conclusion on the subject of ratification disposes of the controversy..
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER

MR.

JUSTICE

and

MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM

dissent.

MOODY took no part in the decisionof the cause.

MR. JUSTICE HARLAN concurring:

By the act of 1906, 34 Stat. 636, Congress legalized, ratified
'and confirmed, as fully to all intents and purposes as if the same
had by prior act been specific'ally authorized and directed,, the
collection of all duties, both*import and export, impposed by
the authorities of the United States or, of 'the provisional
tmilitary government in the Philippine Islands, prior to Maich8,'
1902, at all ports and places in said Islands, from the United
States or from foreign countries. Intetpreted in the light of
previous and pending litigation,- this act should be *construed
as denying the authority of any court to take cognizance of a
suit brought against the United States to recover any claim'
arising out of such collections. Th~e act should, theruefore, be
construed as withdrawing the consent of the Unitfd States to
be suted on' account of claims of that character. In this view, it
was error to render judgment against the United States, what:evermight be the liability of the collector, if his exaction of

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

206 U. S.

the duties in question was without authority of law. Upon
this ground alone, and without considering any of the questions
discussed."in the opinion of the court, I concur in the judgment
of reversal.

BUCK v. BEACH, TREASURER OF TIPPECANOE
COUNTY, INDIANA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME. COURT OF THE STATE OF INDIANA.
No. 14. Argued March 22, 1907.-Decided May 27. 1907.
The old rule of mobilia sequuntur personam has been modified so that the
owner of personal property may be taxed on its account at its situs although not his residence, or domicil; but the mere presence of notes
within a State which is not the residenc6 or domicil of the owner does'
not bring the debts of which they are the written evidence within the
taxing jurisdiction of that State, and a tax thereon by that State is illegal
and void under the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
An attempt to escape'p'roper taxation in one State on the debt represented
by a note does not confer jurisdiction on another State, not the residence
or domicil of the owner, to tax the note on account of its mere presence
therein.
Mortgage notes made and payable in Ohio and secured by mortgages on
property in that State, the owner whereof resides in New York, are not
taxable in Indiana because they are therein for safe keeping.

against the plaintiff in error (who was defendant
below) was .recovered in a state Circuit Court in Indiana, which
was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State (164 Indiana,,
37), and the plaintiff in error brings the case here to review that
judgment. The predecessor of the defendant in error, being at
the time treasurer of Tippecanoe County, in the State of Indiana, brought this action in 1897 against the plaintiff in error
to subject funds.in his hands to the payment of taxes alleged to
be due from the estate of one Job M. Nash, deceased, which
taxes had been assessed in above county and State in 1894, after
the death of Nash, onpersonal property of the deceased that
JUDGMENT

