OCTOBER TERM, 1906.

536

Statement of the Case.

206 U. S.

SAUER v. CITY OF NEW YORK..
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YOR':.
No. 130.

Argued March 21, 1907.-Decided May 27, 1907.

While under the law of the State of New York the owner of land abutting on
a street has easements of access, light and air as against the erection of an
elevated railway by or for a private corporation for its own exclusive purposes, he has no such easements as against the public ,use of the streets, or
any such structure which may be erected upon the street to subserve and
promote the public use, and he is not therefore deprived of his property
without due process of law by the erection of such a structure for the
public use.
The decision of the Court of Appeals of the State of New York in the Elevated
RailroadCases related to the structure of an elevated railroad for a private
corporation and did not create any contract within the impairment of
obligation clause of the Constitution of the United States between the
City of New York and owners of property abutting on the streets which
would be violated by the change of grade or erection of a viaduct for public
use of the city.
These rules applied to the case of an abutting owner on 155th Street in New
York City and held, that the erection 6f the viaduct therein was merely 4
change of grade and that he was not thereby deprived of his property
* without due process of law nor was the obligation of any contract impaired
* by the judgment of the Court of Appeals holding that the rule of the
Elevated Railroad Cases did not apply in such a case. Muldker v. Harlem
R. R. Co., 197 U. S. 544, distinguished.

GEORGE W. SAUER, the intestate of the plaintiffs in error
(hereafter called the plaintiff) became, on, July 1, 1886, the
owner in fee simple of a parcel. of land on the Corner of One Hundred and Fifty-fifth street and Eighth avenve, in the city of
New York. There was then upon the land a building, used as
a place of public resort. The city of New York was and is
the owner of the fee of One Hundred and Fifty-fifth street
and Eighth avenue, which, it holds in trust for the 'public
for highways.
Before the passage of the act hereinafter referred to One
Hundred and Fifty-fifth street.had been graded from Eighth

SAUER v. NEW YORK.
206 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

avenue in a westerly direction, until it reached a high and,
for street uses, impassable bluff, on the summit of which ran..
St. Nicholas place, a public highway. The street as laid .out
on the records, ascends the bluff, and continues westerly to
the Hudson River. It extends easterly to the Harlem River
at a point where the river is bridged by McComb's Dam Bridge.
In 1887 the legislature of the State of New York enacted
a law which authorized the city of New York, for the 'purpose
of improving and regulating the use of One Hundred and
Fifty-fifth street, to construct over said street from St. Nicholas
place to McComb's Dam Bridge. an elevated iron viaduct for
the public travel, with the proviso that no railways should
be permitted upon it. There was no provision for damages
to the owners of land abutting on the street. Subsequently
the viaduct was constructed, resting upon iron columnsplaced
in the roadway. The surface of the viaduct consisted of
asphalt and paving blocks laid on iron beams. Opposite the
plaintiff's land it is sixty-three feet wide and about fifty feet
above the surface of the original street, which, except as interfered with by the viaduct, remains .unobstructed for public
travel. At the junction of the street with Eighth avenue
it is widened into a quadrangular platform, 80 by 160 feet
in extent. Near the plaintiff's land the viaduct may be reaehed
by a stairway. By the construction and maintenance of the
viaduct the plaintiff's access to his land and the free and
uninterrupted use of light and air have been impaired, and
the value of his property has been decreased by reason of the
dust, -dirt, and noise occasioned by the structure. This action
was brought to enjoin the defendant frhin maintainin'g the
viaduct, or, in the alternative, for the recovery of. damages
caused by it. There was judgment for the defendant by the
Supreme Court, affirmed by the Appellate Division and the
Court of Appeals. 180 N. Y. 27. After the last decision the
case was remitted to the Supreme Court, where there was
final judgment for the defendant, and it is now here on writ
of error under the claim that-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

206 U. S.

First. Plaintiff has been deprived of his property without
due process of law, in violation of § 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States; and
Second. That the act under which the viaduct was constructed, as construed by the court, impairs the obligation
of a contract, in violation of § 10, Article I, of the Constitution
of the United States.
Mr. Abram I. Elkus, with whom Mr. CarlisleJ. Gleason was
on the brief, for plaintiffs in error:
Plaintiff established a contract within the contract clause
of the Federal Constitution, and his easements of light, air
and access were property which could not be taken without
due process of law. The New York courts have repeatedly
declared that the proceedings under which streets in New
York City have been opened constitute a contract with the
abutting owners.
The statute under which these streets are opened provides
that while the city shall be seized in fee of the streets, nevertheless, that the same be kept open for or as a part of the
public street. Laws of 1813, Chap.,86, § 178; Laws of 1888,
Chap. 402, § 990; Greater New York Charter, § 990, Chap. 418;
Laws of 1903' Sto~y v. N. Y. El. R. Co., 90 N. Y. 122; Kane
v. N. Y. El. R. Co., 125 N. Y. 164, .177.
The plaintiff is entitled to enforce this contract. United
States v. Ill. Central R. Co., 154 U. S. 225, 238; Fisk v. Jefferson Police Jury, 116 U. S. 132.
By the law of New York, the owner of premises abutting
upon the public street has easements of light, air and access
in the street, and these easements are property within the protection of the Constitution.
The act in question is unconstitutional and void in providing for the erection of the elevated driveway or viaduct
without regard to plaintiffs' property or contract rights.
By New York law the building of an elevated railroad is
a use of the streets inconsistent with the covenant that they

SAUER v. NEW YORK.
206 U. S.

539

Arkument for Defendant in Error.

shall be maintained as open publlh' streets,, and is also a taking
of plaintiffs' property. Story v. N. Y. El. R. Co., 90 N. Y. 122,
and other elevated cases; Muhlker v. N. Y. & H. R. R. Co.,
197 U. S: 544.
It was not the railroad but the permanent structure which
formed the basis of -the elevated railroad decisions. See opinion of Danforth, J., in the Story case, p. 161; opinion of
Tracy, J., p. 169. Kellinger v. Forty-second Street 1M. R. Co.,
50 N. Y. 206; Fobes v. R. W. & 0. R. R. Co., 121 N. Y.
505.
The Elevated Railroad decisions declare such an injury to
be a tarcing of property, as well as a breach of the contract to
maintain the streets as open streets. Muhlker v. N. Y. & H.
R. Co., 197 U. S. 544; Birrell v. N. Y. & H. R. Co., 198 U. S.
-390; Kierns v. N. Y. & H. R. Co., 198 U. S. 390.
This case is stronger for the abutter than the Muhlker case.
Plaintiff's contract right arises by virtue of the act of 1813
and the rule of property laid down in the Story case in 1882,
which' has been constantly reiterated by the New York
courts.
Upon the faith of the statutory contract and the judicial
construction given it plaintiff purchased his property in 1886,
thus becoming a party to that contract, which extended to all
abutters.
The construction of a statute by a state court becomes a
part of the statute, and rights acquired under it may not be
impaired by- a change of construction. Ohio Life Ins. Co. v.
Debolt, 16 How. 416; Gelpecke v. Dubuque, 1 Wall. 175; Louisi'anav. Pillsbury, 105 U. S. 278.
Mr. ChandlerP. Anderon filed a brief as amicus curim by
leave of 'the court.
Mr. Theodore Connoly, with whom Mr. Terence Farley was
on the brief, for defendant in error:
Chapter 576 of the Laws of 1887 does not deprive the plain-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

206 U. S.

tiffs in error of any property without due process of law, nor
does it violate any of the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The law in the State of New York is well settled that consequential damages caused by the construction or maintenance
of a public improvement, authorized by statute, does not constitute a "taking" within the meaning of the constitutional
provision. Uppington v. City of New York, 165 N. Y. 222, 229.
In Uppington v. City of New York, 165 N. Y. 222, already
cited, the injury was permanent, and the doctrine of the case
of Transportation Company v. Chicago has been often applied
by this court to cases of permanent injury, among others in
the cases of Gibson v. United States, 166 U. S. 269, 275; Wabash R. R. Co. v.- Defiance, 167 U. S. 88; Bauman v. Ross,
167 U. S. 548, 587; Meyer v. Richmond, 172 U. S. 82, 97;
Scranton v. Wheeler, 179 U. S. 141, 155; C., B. & Q. Railway
Co. v. DrainageCommissioners, 200 U. S. 561, 583; West Chicago
R. R. Co. v. Chicago, 201 U. S. 506, 526.
The construction of the viaduct is practically a change
of grade.
It has been urged by plaintiffs in error that-the cqnstruction
of the viaduct is not a change of grade and therefore that the
change of grade cases cited do not apply to the present case.
The work is, in any event, substantially a change of grade,
whether it may be technically so or not, and being such, the
case at bar is certainly within the reasoning of the authorities
which hold that for a change of grade legally made the city
is not liable to abutting owners for damages.
In solving the question as to what is a proper and public
use of the streets regard must be had to the changing conditions of city life.
With the march of improvement, new street uses arise.
Sun Publishing Association v. The Mayor, 152 N. Y. 257.
. The legislation in question, designed for the improvement
of One Hundred and Fifty-fifth street so as to make it more
convenient and safer to the travelling public, is a police regu-

SAUER v. NEW YORK.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court,

lation and the constitutional prohibition against the taking
of private property without compensation was not intended
as a limitation upon the police powers of the State. C., B. &
Q. Railway v. DrainageCommissioners, 200 U. S.561, 583-585;
Jones v. Brim, 165 U. S. 182.
The legislation in question contravenes impairment of contract clause of the Constitution.
The Muhlker case, 197 U. S. 544 and the Birrell case, 198
U. S. 390 can be distinguished. And see Mead v. Portland,
200 U. S. 148, 163, holding that while the interpretation of
a local ordinance or a statute by the highest court of the State
is not indisputable and, even though it may conflict with
other decisions of the courts of the State, if it does not conflict
with any decision made prior to the inception of the rights
involved, this court will lean to an agreement with the state
court. Citing Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20.
MR. JUSTICE MOODY, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The acts of the defendant for which the plaintiff sought
a remedy in the courts of New York may be simply stated.
The plaintiff owned land with buildings thereon situated at
the junction of One Hundred and Fifty-fifth street and Eighth
avenue, two public highways, in which the fee was vested in
the city upon the trust that they should be forever kept open
as public streets. As One Hundred and Fifty-fifth street was
graded at the time the plaintiff acquired his title, it was isolated
to a considerable extent from the street system of the city.
Its west end ran into a high and practically impassable bluff,
which rendered further progress in that direction impossible.
The east end ran to the bank of the Harlem River at a grade
which rendered access to McComb's Dam Bridge, which
crossed the river at that point, impossible. Under legislative
authority the city constructed, solely for public travel, a viaduct over One Hundred and Fifty-fifth street, beginning at

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

the bridge and thence running with gradual ascent to the
top of the bluff. This viaduct enabled travellers to use One
Hundred and Fifty-fifth street, in connection with other
streets of the city, from which it had previously been disconnected. The viaduct rested upon columns planted in the street,
and they, and the viaduct itself, to a material extent impaired
the plaintiff's access to his land and the free admission .to
it of light and air. The plaintiff, in his complaint, alleged
that this structure was unlawful, because the law under which
it was constructed did not provide for compensation for the
injury to his private property in the easements of access,
light, and air, appurtenant to his estate. The Court of Appeals
denied the plaintiff the relief which he sought, upon the ground
that under the law of New York he had no easements of access,
light, or air, as against any improvement of the street for the
purpose of adapting it to public travel. In other words, the
court in effect decided that the property, alleged to have been
injured did not exist. The reasons upon which the decision
of that court proceeded will appear by quotations from the
opinion of the court, delivered by Judge Haight. Judge
Haight said (p. 30):
"The fee of the street having been acquired according to
the provisions of the statute, we must assume that full compensation was made to the owners of the lands through which
the streets and avenues were laid out, and that thereafter
the owners of land abutting thereon hold their title subject
to all the legitimate and proper uses to which the streets and
public highways may be devoted. As such owners they are
subject to the right of the public to grade and improve the
streets, and they are presumed to have been compensated
for any future improvement or change in the surface or grade
rendered necessary for the convenience of public travel,
especially in cities where the growth of population increases
the use of highways. The rule may be different as to peculiar
and extraordinary changes made for-some ulterior purpose
other than the improvement of the street, as, for instance,

SAUER v. NEW YORK.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

where the natural surface has been changed by artificial means,
such as the construction of a railroad embankment, or a
bridge over a railroad, making elevated approaches necessary.
But as to changes from the natural contour of the surface
rendered necessary in order to adapt the street to the free'and
easy passage of the public, they may be lawfully made without
additional compensation to the' abutting owners, and for
that purpose bridges may be constructed over streams and
viaducts over ravines, with approaches thereto from intersecting streets.
. (p. 33). In the case under consideration
as we have seen, One Hundred and Fifty-fifth street continued
west to Bradhurst avenue. There it met a steep bluff seventy
feet high, on the top of which was St. Nicholas place. The
title of the street up the bluff had been acquired and recorded,
but it had never been opened and worked as a street. The
bluff Was the natural contour of the surface, and for the purpose of facilitating -easy and safe travel of the public from
St. Nicholas place to other portions of the city the legislature
authorized the construction of the viaduct in question. It is
devoted to ordinary traffic by teams, vehicles, and pedestrians.
It is prohibited for railroad purposes. It is one of the uses
to which public highways are primarily opened and devoted.
It was constructed under legislative authority in the exercise
6f governmental powers for a public purpose. It is not, therefore, a nuisance, and the plaintiff is not entitled to have 'its
maintenance enjoined or to recover in this action the consequential damages sustained."
The plaintiff now contends that the judgment afterwards
rendered by the Supreme Court of New York, in conformity
with the opinion of the Court of Appeals, denied rights secured
to him by the Federal Constitution. This contention presents
the only question for our determination, and the correctness
of the .principles of local land law applied by the state courts
is not open to inquiry here, unless it has some bearing upon
that question. But it may not be inappropriate to say that
the decision- of the Court of Appeals seems to be in full accord

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

with the decisions of all other courts in'which the same question
has arisen. The state courts have uniformly held that the
erection over a street of an elevated viaduct, intended for
general public travel and-not devoted to the exclusive use of
a private transportation corporation, is a legitimate street
improvement equivalent to a change of grade; and'that, as
in the case .of a change of grade, an owner of land abutting.'
on the street is not entitled to damages for the impairment
of access to his land and the lessening of the circulation of
light and air over it. 'Selden v. Jacksonville, 28 Florida, 558;
Willis v. Winona, 59 Minnesota, 27; Colclough v. Milwaukee,
92 Wisconsin, 182; Walish v. Milwaukee, 95 Wisconsin, 16;.
Home Building Company v. Roanoke, 91 Virginia, 52 (cited
with apparent approval by this court in Meyer v. Richmond,
172 U. S. 82, 95); Willetts Manufacturing Co. v. Mercer County,
62 N. J. Law, 95; Brand v. Multnomah County, 38 Oregon, 79;
Mead v. Portland, 45 Oregon, 1, affirmed by this court in 200
U.'S. 148; Sears v.. Crocker, 184 Massachusetts, 586; (Semble)
DeLucca v. North Little Rock, 142 Fed., Rep. 597.
The case of Willis v. Winona, supra is singularly like the
case at bar in its essential facts. There, as here, a viaduct
was constructed, connecting by a gradual ascent the level
of a public street with the level of a public bridge across the
Mississippi. An owner of land abutting on the street over
which the -viaduct was elevated was denied compensation for
his injuries, Mr. Justice Mitchell saying (p. 33):
"The bridge is just as, much a public highway as is Main
street, with which it connects; and, whether we consider the
approach as a part of the former or of the latter, it is merely
a part of the highway. The city having, as it was authorized
to do, established a new highway across the Mississippi, it
was necessary to connect it, for purposes of travel, with Main
and the other streets of the city. This it has done, in the only
way it could have been done, by what, in effect, amounts
merely to raising the grade of the centre of Main street in
front of the plaintiff's lot. It can make no difference in prin-

SAUER v. NEW YORK.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ciple whether this was done by filling up the street solidly,
or, as in this case, by supporting the way on stone or iron
columns. Neither is it important if the city raise the grade
of only a part of the street, leaving the remainder at a lower
grade.
"The doctrine of the 'courts everywhere, both in England
and in-this country (unless. Ohio and Kentucky are excepted),
is that so long as there. is: no application.of the street to purposes other than those of a highway, any establishment or
change 'of grade made lawfully, and not negligently performed,
does not.impose an additional servitude upon the street, and
hence is not within the constitutional inhibition against
taking private property without compensation, and is not
the basis of an action for daMages, unless there be. an express
statute to that effect.: That this is the rule, :and that the facts
of this case will fall within it, is too well established by the
decisions of this court to require the citation of authorities
of other jurisdictions.
"The New York .Elevated Railway,cases. cited by plaintiffare
not authority in. his'favor, for they recognize and. affirm the
very, doctrine that we have laid, down,- Story v., New York
Elevated L 'R. Co., 90 N. Y. 122, but hold that the construction*
and maintenance on the street of an elevated railroad operated
purposes
by steam, and which was not open to the public for
of travel -and traffic,- was a perversion of the street from street
uses, and inposed upon it an additional servitude, which.
entitled abutting owners to damages."
..The cases cited usually recognized" the authority of the
New York Elevated cases, hereinafter to be discussed, and
approved the distinction from them. made by Mr. Justice
Mitchell.
But, as has been said, we are not concerned primarily with
-the correctness- of the. rule adopted by the.Court of Appeals'
of New York and its conformity with authority. This court
does 'not hold the relation to the' controversy between these
parties which the Court of Appeals of New York had. It was
VOL. 'CvI-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U.. S.

the duty of that ,court'to ascertain, declare and apply the law
of New York, and its determination of that law is conclusive
upon this court. This court is not made, by the laws passed.
in pursuance of the Constitution, a court of appeal from the

highest courts of the States, except to a. very limited extent,
and for a precisely defined purpose. The limitation upon
-the. power of this court in the review of the decisions of the
courts of the States, though elementary and fundamental, is
'not infrequently. overlooked at the Bar, and unless
it is kept
steadily in mind much confusion of thought and argument.
.result. It seems worth while to refer to the •provisions of
the Constitution and laws which mark and define the relation
of this court to the courts of the State. Article III of the
Constitution ordains, among' other things, that "the judicial
power shall ex.tend to all cases in law and equity, arising under
this Constitution, the laws of the United States, and treaties
made, or which shall be made, under their authority,? and
that the appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court shall be
exercised under such regu.lations, as Congress shall make.
It Was from this' provision of the Constitution that Marshall
in Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264, derived the power :of this.
court to review the'. judgments of. the courts of the States,
and, -in defining the -appellate jurisdiction, the Chief Justice'
expressly 'limited it to questions concerniiig the Constitution,
laws and :treaties of the United States, commonly called'
Federal questions, and excluded'altogether the. thought that
under the Congressional regulation the jurisdiction included
any power to correct any . supposed errors of the 'state courts
in the 'determination of the state law. Such was the expressed
'limitation ofthe or-iginal judiciary act, in'its present
.frm:
found in section 709 of the Revised Statutes, w(hibh has- been
observed by this court in so many cases tha, the citation of,
them.would be an idle parade. It is enough
'refer to Mur-.
doe/ v. Memphis, 20 Wall. 590, where, 'after great ,cisideration,it was held that under the' judiciary' act, 'as ame'ded- to. its.
,present form;! this cou t, Was limited' to the consideai6in of'

SAUER v. NtW YORK.
206 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

the Federal questions named in the Constitution. This court,
whose highest function it is to confine all other- authorities
within the limits prescribed fQr them by the fundamental
law, ought certainly to be zealous to restrain itself within the
limits of its own jurisdiction, and not be insensibly tempted
beyond them by the thought that an unjustified or 'harsh rule
of law may have been applied by the state courts in the de:termination of a question committed exclusively to their care.
In the case at bar, therefore, we have to consider Solely
whether the judgment under review has denied to the plaintiffany right secured to him by, the Federal Constitution. He
complains;
First. That he was denied the due process of law secured
to him by the Fourteenth Amendment, in that -his property
Was taken without compeishtion; and
Second. That the law which authorized the construction"
of the 'iaduct, as interpreted by the Court of Appeals of. New<
York, *impaired the obligation of the contract with the city
of New York,- which is implied, from the laying "out of the
street, in violation of article I; § 10, paragraph 1, of the Concontentions may :profitably be: considered '
stitution.
separately.
Has the plaintiff been 'deprived of his property -without
due process of law?" The viaduct did not invade the plaintiff's.
land' It was entirely, outside that land. But it is said that
appurtenant to the land there were easements of access, light
and air, and that the construction. and operation of the viaduct
impaired these easements to such an extent as to constitute
a taking of them. .The- only question. which -need here be.
decided is-,whether .the plaintiff .had, as appurtenant to* his
land, easements of the kind described; in other words,.vWhether
-The.

the. property. which the plaintiff alleged was taken: exiSted
at all. The court -below has decided that.the, plaintiff had,,
no such easements; in other words, that there, was rio property
taken. :Itis. clear that undefr the law of New York an owner
::Of lanfid abutting on the street has easemeiits of access; light'

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

and air as against the erection of an elevated roadway by or
for a private corporation for its own exclusive purposes, but
that he has no such easements'as against the public use of
the streets or any structures which may be erected upon the
street to subserve and promote that public use. The same
law which declarep the easements defines, qualifies and limits
them. Surely such questions must be for the final determination of the state court. .It has authority to declare that the
'abutting land owner has no easement of any kind over tho
abutting street; it may determine that he has a limited easement; or it may determine that he has an absolute and unqualified easement. The right of an owner of land abutting on
public highways has been a fruitful source of litigation in
the courts of all the States, and the decisions have been conflicting, and often in the same State irreconcilable in principle.
The courts have modified or overraled their own decisions,
and each State has in the end fixed and limited, by legislation
or judicial decision, the rights of abutting owners in accordance
with its own view of the law and public policy. As has already
been pointed out, this court has neither the right nor the duty
to reconcile these conflicting decisions nor to reduce the law
of the various States to a uniform rule which it shall announce
and impose. Upon the ground, then, that under the law of
New York, as determined by its highest court, the plaintiff
never owned the easements which he claimed, and that therefore there was no property taken, we hold that no violation
of the Fourteenth Amendment is shown.
,The remaining question in the case is whether the judgment under review impaired the obligation of a contract.
It appears from the cases to be cited that the courts of New
York have expressed the rights of owners of land abutting
upon public streets to and over' those streets in terms of contract rather than in terms of title. In the city of New York
the city owns the fee of the- public streets (whether laid out
under the civil law of the Dutch regime; or as the result of
conveyances between the city and the owners of. land,- or by

SAUER v. NEW YORK.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

condemnation proceedings under the statutory law of the
State) upon a trust that they shall forever. be kept open as
public streets, which is'regarded as a covenant running with
the abutting land. Accepting, for the purposes of this discussion, the view that the plaintiff's rights have their origin
in a contract, then it must be that the terms of the trust and
the extent of the resulting covenant are for the courts- of
New York finally to decide and limit, providing that in doing
so they deny no Federal right of the owner. The plaintiff
asserts that the case of Story v. Elevated Railroad, 90 N. Y. 122,
decided in 1882, four years before he acquired title to the
property, interpreted the contract between the city of New
York and the owners of land abutting upon its streets as
assuring the owner easements of access, light and airi which
could not lawfully be iunpaired by the erectibn on the street
of an elevated structure designed for public travel; that he
is entitled to the benefit of his contract as thus interpreted,
and that the judgment of the court denyipg him its benefits
impaired its obligation. If the facts upon which this claim
is based are accurately stated, then the case comes within
the authority of Muhlker v. Railroad Co., 197 U. S. 544, which
holds that when the Court of Appeals has once interpreted
the contract existing between the land owner and the city
that interpretation becomes a part of the contract, upon which
one acquiring land may rely, and that any subsequent change
of it to his injury impairs -the obligation-of the contract. It
will be observed that it is an essential part of the plaintiff's
case that he should show that his contract had been interpreted
in the manner he states. It therefore becomes necessary to
examine the Story case, wherein, he asserts, such an interpretation was made. In order. fo ascertain precisely what that,
case decided'we may consider other decisions of th Court of
Appeals, though they are later in time than the acquisition
of the-plaintiff's title.
The plaintiff in the StQry case held the title to land, injuriously affected by the construction of an 'elevated railroad,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
20 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

as a successor to a grantee from the city. In the deed of the
city the land was bounded on the street and 'contained a
covenant 'that it should' "forever thereafter continue and
be for the free and common passage of, and as public streets
and ways for, the .inhabitants of said city, and all others
passing through or by the same, in like manner as other streets
of the same city now are, or lawfully ought to be.". It was
held that by virtue of this covenant, which ran with the land,:
the plaintiff was entitled to easements in the street of access,
and of free and uninter'rupted passage of light and, air; that
the, easements Were property Within the meaning of the constitution of the State, and could not lawfully be taken from
their owner" without compensation, and that the erection of.
the elevated structure Was. a taking.. The decision rested
upon the view that the erection of an -elevated structure for
railroad purposes was not a legitimate street use. "There is
no change,"' said Judge Danforth (p' 156), :"in the street
surface intended; but the elevation of a structure -useless for
general street purposes, and as foreign thereto as the house
in Vesey street; Coming v,' Lowerre, 6 Johns. Chan. 439, or
the freight depot, Barney v. Keokuk, 94.U. S. 324."
"The question 'here' pres~rited,'" 'said 'JUdge Tracy. (p. 174),
"is not whether the legislature has'the power to regulate and
contiol the public uses of the public streets of the.city, but
"'-whether. it has the power 'to grant to a railroad corporation
authority to' take possession. of such streets and appropriate
them to uses inconsistent -with and destructi'; of. their continued use as open public streets of the city.':
:In the case of Lahr v. Metropolitan Elevated RailroadCo., 104
N. Y. 268, decided._in 1887, the plaintiff .held title by 'mesne
conveyances from the owner, from whon the land for thestreet
been acquired 'by condemnation under. a statute, which
had
provided
that th land t" .taken should be' hed(p: 289)
"in'
keptand
be
appropriated
same'
'the
.,trust. nevertheless, that
.
. 'forever, in
open for or -as part of a public street
m:the said city
"'like 'manner as .other public streets
'

'.

'

SAUER v. NEW YORK.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

are, and of right ought to be."" It was contended that the
principle of the Story case should be confined to those who,
like Story, held title under a grant from the city with a covenant that the street should be kept open. But the court held
that there was no legal difference between the two cases, and
that from the condemnation statute a covenant running with
the land was implied .fo'r the benefit of its owners, and that".
the plaintiff was entitled to recover damages for the injury
to his zeasements of access, light,. and air. But, as. in the
Story case, the extent of the decision was carefully limited.
"The logical effect' of the decisionin the Story case,.' said
Chief Judge Ruger (p. 292), "is to so construe the Constitution,
as to operate as a restricti6n upon the. legislative power over
"the public streets opened" under the act of 1813, and confine
its exercise to such legislation,, as shall authorize their use
for street'purposes alone. -Whenever any 6ther use is attempted
'to be a uthorized; it, exceeds its constitutional, authority. Statu-tes relating to public streets which attempt to authorize their
use for additional :street uses are. obviously within the power
of the legislature to enact.".
in the case. of Kane v. Elevated R. R, Co., 125 N. Y. 164,
decidedin 1891, it appeared .that the street there' in question
was laid out during, the Dutch regme, ,when the town had
absolutedtitle to the fee of the streets,, with no easement over
:them in favor of the- abutting land.' But it was held by the
qourt that-by virtue of. crtain tlegisation, not- necessary here.'
to be stated, New York City 'owns the fee in; all of its streets
upon a:trust both for the public and the abutting land, that'
they shall forever be kept. open. as publicstreets, and .thatas
to. an abutting owner. this trust cannot be violated without compensation. But in the opinion the limits of the principle
were again caieftilly guarded.: It wa' said by Judge Andrews
(p. 175)': 'Undbr 'the decisions made 'there seems to be no
longer any doubtin this State that streets in a city. laid .out
and opened under charter provisions may, under legislative
and municipal authority,- be used for any public use consistent

552

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

with their preservation as public streets, and this, although,
the use may be new, and may seem to impose an additional
burden, and may subject lot owners to injury. The mere
disturbance of theii rights of light, air and access, by the
'interposition of a new street use, must be borne and gives no
right of action." And again (p. 185): "We conclude this part
of the case with the remark that neither the Story nor the
Lahr case imposes any limitations upon the legislative power
'over streets for street ases. They simply hold that the trust
upon which streets are held cannot be subverted by devoting
them to-other and inconsistent uses."
It would be difficult for words to show more clearly, than
those quoted from the opinions, that such a case, as that now
before us, was not within the scope of the decisions or of .the
reasons upon which they were founded, The difference between a structure erected for the ex-clusive use of a railroad
and one erected for the general use of the public was sharply
defined. It was only the former which the court had in view.
That the structure was elevated, and for that reason affected
access, light and air, was an important element in the decisions, but it was not the only essential elehent. The structures -in these cases were held to violate the land owners'
rights, 'not only because they, were elevated and thereby obstructed, access, light and air, but also because they were designed for the exclusive and permanent use of private corpor ations. The limitation of the scope of the decision to such
structures, erected for such purposes, appears not only in the
decisions themselves, but quite clearly from subsequent decisions of.. the Court of Appeals. In .the case of Fobes v. R.
W. & 0. R. R. Co., 121-N. Y. 505, Judge Peckham, now Mr.
Justice Peckham, -made the following statement of the effect
of the Story case. Certain portions of it are italicized here
for the, purpose of erpnhaizing the point. now under consideration. (p. 517; the'italics are ours)-.
*"It was not intended in the Story case to overrule or change
the law in regard to steam surface railroads. The case em-

SAUER v. NEW YORK.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

bodied the application of what was regarded as well-established
principles of law to a new combination of facts, such facts
amounting, as was determined, to an absolute and permanent
obstruction in a portion of the public street, and in a total and
exclusive use of such portion by the defendant, and such: permanent obstruction and total exclusive use, it was further held,
amounted to taking of some portion of the plaintiff's easement
in the street for :the purpose of furnishing light, air and access
to his adjoining lot. This absolute and permanent obstruction
of the street, and this total and exclusive use'of a portion thereof.
by the defendant were accomplished by the erection of a structure
for the elevated railroad of the defendant; which structure, is
fully described in the case as reported.
"The structure, by the, mere fact of its existence in the
street, permanently and at every moment of the day took
saway from the plaintiff'some portion of the light and air which
otherwise would have reached him, and, in a degree very
appreciable, interfered With .and took away* from him his
facility of access to his lot; such interference not being intermittent and. caused by the temporary use of the street by the
passage of the vehicles of the defendant while it was operating
its.road through the street, but caused by the iron posts and
by the superstructure imposed thereon, and existing for every
moment of the day and night. Such a permanent, total, ex'clusive and absolute appropriationof a portion of the street as
this structure amounted to was held to be illegal and wholly
beyond any legitimate or lawful use of a public street. The
taking of the property of the plaintiff in that case was held
to follow -upon the permanent and exclusive nature of the appropriationby the defendant of the public street, or some portion
thereo."
The distinctior-between' the erection of an elevated structure
for the exclusive use of a private corporation and the same
structure for the use of public travel is clearly illustrated in
the contrast in the decisions of Reining v. Railroad, 128 N. Y.
.157, and Talbot y. Railroad, 151 N. Y. 155. In the first case

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. 8.

it was held that the abutting land owner had the right to
compensation for the construetion of a viaduct in the street
for the pritically exclusive occupatiin of a railroad. In the
,.second case it was held that the abutting owner had no right
of'compensation for the erection of a public bridge with inplined approaches, and a gard wall, to carry travel, over a
railroad, although, the structure impaired the access to his
laud. We are not concerned with the question whether the
.distinction, between an'elevated structure for the exclusive
use of, a corporation 'and the same structure for the purposes
,of .public travel is, so: far as an abutting land owner is concerned, a just or harsh one, .provided it is a clear distinction
based upon real differences., We think that before the plaintiff
had acquired his title. the law of New York had plainly drawn
this distinction. The highest court of the State had held that
.the contract of' the owner of land abutting on streets entitled
him to the right of unimpaired access and uninterrupted circulation of light and air as'against an elevated structure erected
for. the eiclusive, use of a private corporation, had, with scrupulous care, refrained from holding that he had -thesame right
as against an elevated structure of the same kind erected foi
the purpose of publi c travel, and had pointed out plainly' the
essential distinction between the two cases. This distinction,
*as we have already seen, has been made or 'approved by the
courts of other States wherever the, occasion to consider it
arose, and"Itis a real and substantial distinction which arises
out of the trust upon which the. public owns the public high-,
ways.
The trust upon which streets are held is that they shall 'be
devoted to the uses of public travel. When' they,. or 'a substantial part of them,' are turned over to the exclusive use of
* asingle person or corporation, we see no reason why a state
court may not hold 'that it is. a' perversiofi of their legitimai
uses, a violation 'of the trust, .and the imposition: of a-new servitude. But the same court may consistently hold that withthe acquisition'of the fee, and :in accordance with the trust,'.1

SAUER v. NEW YORK.
206 U. S.

555

Opinion of the Court.

the city obtained the right to use the surface, the soil below,
and the space above the surface, in any manner which is plainly
designed to promote the ease, facility and safety of all those
who may desire to travel upon -the streets; and that the rights
attached to the adjoining land, or held by contract by its owner,
are subordinate to such uses, whether' they were foreseen or
notwhen the street was laid out. In earlier and simpler times
the surface of the streets was enough to accommodate all
travel. But under the more complex conditions of modern
urban life, with its high and populous buildings, and its rapid
interurban transportation, the requirements of public travel
are largely increased. Sometimes the increased demands may
be met by subways and sometimes by viaducts. The constructi'on of either, solely for public travel may well be held
by a state court to be a reasonable adaptation of the streets
to the uses for'which they were primarily designed. What we
might hold on these questions, where we had full jurisdiction
of the subject, it is not necessary here even to consider.
In basing its judgment on the broad, plain and approved
distinction between the abandonment of the street to private
uses and its further devotion to public uses, the court below
overruled none of its decisions, but, on the contrary, acted upon
the principles which they clearly declared. The plaintiff,
therefore, has not shown that in his case the state court has
changed, to his injury, the interpretation of his contract with
the city, Which it had previously made, and upon which he
had the right to rely. The case at bar is not within the authority of the Muhlker case. When Muhlker acquired his title
the elevated railroad 'cases had declared the law of New York
and it was here held that he had the right to rely upon his
contract as in them it had been interpreted. The structure
complained of was in the Muhlker case, as in the Elevated
Railroad case, one devoted to the exclusive use of a private
corporation. This court, in order to obtain jurisdiction and
to declare that a Federal right was violated,' was obliged to
hold, and did hold, that the two cases were identical, and that

OCTO3ER TERM, 1906.
MCKENNA, J., dissenting.

206 U. S.

in deciding the Muhlker case ,the Court of Appeals had in effect,
overruled the Elevated Railroad Cases, and this view was supported by the Court of Appeals itself in Lewis v. Railroad,
.162 N. Y. 202, where a plaintiff in like situation with Muhlker
.had obtained damages for exactly the same structure. The
theory upon which the Muhlker case stands and upon which
it was put in the'opinion of the court, is that in deciding against.
Milhlker the' 8tate court had overruled its own decisions, and
changed the 'interpretation of the contract upon which he-had
the right to rely. But the fundamental fact upon which the
decision in the Muhlker case fested, present there, is 'absent
in. the, case at bar. Here there was no overruling of decisions
and no change in the interpretation of the contract. There
was, therefore, no impairment of the obligation -of a contract,
and the decision was merely on a question of local law, with the-soundness of which we have no concern.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, dissenting:
I am unable to agree'with the opinion And judgment of the
court. I think this case cannot be distinguished in principle
from Muhlker v. Harlem Railroad Co., 197 U. S. 544; Burrell v.
New York & Harlem Railroad Co .and Kierns v. New York'
& Harlem Railroad Co., 198 U. S. 390. On the authority of
those cases the judgment in this case should be reversed.
Those cases were determined by Story v. Elevated Railroad,'
90 N. Y.' 122, and Lahr v. Metropolitan Elevated Railroad Co.,
104 N. Y. 268, known as the Elevated Railroad cases. The
structures there described are what are known as elevated
railroads, and may be presumed to be. familiar, and a structure
of substantially similar character was the subject. of the con-:
troversy in Muhlker v. Harlem Railroad Co., Burrell V. Same
and Kierns.v. Same. Its characteristic was elevation above.
-the surface of the street, and this was the point of the decisions.
Let me quote from. the Story case: But what," 'said the court,

SAUER v. NEW YORK.
206 U. S.

MCKENNA, J., dissenting.

"is the extent of this easement? What rights or privileges
are secured thereby? Generally, it may be said, it is to have
the street kept open, so that from it access may be had to the
lot and light, and air furnished across the open way. The
street occupies the surface,' and to its uses the rights of the
adjacent lots are subordinate, but above the surface there can
be no lawful obstruction to the access of light and air, to the
detriment of the abutting owner." And again, it was said
that the agreement-grant from the city-was "that if the
grantee would buy the lot abutting on the street he might
have the use of light and air over the open space [italics mine]
designated as a street." And yet, again (and the passage was
quoted in the Muhiler case, page 566): "Before any interest
passed to the city the owner of the land had from it .the benefit
of air and light. The public purpose of a street requires of the
soil the surface only." The Lahr case repeated the principle.
And it was said in the Muhlker case, in effect, that the disregard
of the distinction between the surface of a street and the space
above the surface would leave "remaining no vital element
of the Elevated Railroadcases."
It may be said'there was a qualification made in those cases
and recognized in the Muhlker case, that' it was not alone the
elevation of a .structure above the surface, but the elevation
of one "useless for general street purposes." I may accept the
limitation. The structure in the case at bar comes within
the characterization. It is useless for general street purposes.
,It obstructs the frontage of abutting lots and affords no access
to or from them in any proper sense. There is. a descent by
.stairs from it•
to the street below, but for pedestrians onlynecessarily not for vehicles'. But there is a like descent by.
stairs from elevated railroads to streets below, but this did not
save the roads from liability for. abutting property.
It must be borne in mind that this case is not disposed of
by making a contrast between the passage of a railroad and
the traffic on a street. The contrast is catching and only seems
'important. In New York a railroad is a street use and can be

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
McKENNA,

J., dissenting.

206 U. S.

imposed on the surface of a street without liability for consequential damages, and this even if it be a steam railroad..
Fobes v. R. W. & 0. R.' Co., 121 .N. Y. 505. The distinction,
therefore, was necessary to be made between the surface and
the open space over the surface. And we have seen that this
distinction Was noted in the cases and determined their judg'ment. In other words, the use of a street by a railroad was
decided to be a proper street use, and, therefore, whether put
upon the surface or above the surface, retained that character.
In either place it -was a proper street use and damages could
only have been consequent to Che elevation of the road above
the surface, to which, to quote again the Story case, the "public
purpose of a street" attached only.
The Elevated Railroad cases get significance from the arguments of counsel. Such arguments, of' course, are not necessarily a test of the decision. But they may be. The opinion
may respond accurately to them. We find' from the report
of the Story case that the argument of Mr. Evarts for the plaintiff was that "a permanent structure above the surface, and
an encroachment thereby, and by its use upon the appurte:
nant easement of the open frontage held by the abutting proprietors, was not covered by the original condemnation for
the public easement, which was -limited to a maintenance of
such open streets and perpetual frontage. People' v. Kerr,
27 N. Y. 188; Craigv. Rochester R..R. Co., 39 N. Y. 404."
Mr.. Choate, also for the property owners, submitted the
following: "The abutting owners on the streets have an interest
in the nature of property for all time in the streets above their
surface, and in having them kept open and unobstructed forever, of which they canno be deprived without being compensated." The contentions- express the invocation of the
property owner of the-court, and the court responded to and
sustained it. Is not that response rejected.in the case at-bar?
The structure: in the 'case towers as high as a house of five
stories and is plafited on columns, the size and, strength and
number of which'can easily be imagine, .'Does it need any
'

SAUER v. NEW YORK.
206 U. S.

McKENN., J., dissenting.

comment to describe its effect? The plaintiffs have really
no access 'to it from their land or from any building that may
be put upon their land, because they may not bridge the intervening gap. They have no other access to it but that which
I have described. The public has no access from it to plaintiffs'
property but that which I have described.
The buildings that stood upon the land when the. structure
was built were practically under its shadow.' Any buildings
that may be erected will be equally so. "To get above it,"
plaintiffs' counsel asserts, "the abuttor must build up five
stories," and it is only from such elevation that he may contemplate the traffic that passes his premises, and must pass
his premises. And even then, counsel also asserts, light can
only reach the abuttor "through a slit ten feet wide between
his eaves and the edge of the structure."- And to this measure
his right to an unobstructed frontage, his right to unobstructed
light and air, has been. reduced.. Is it p'ossible, that the law,
can see no legal detriment in this, no'impairment of the abuttor's: grant from thecity, no right to compensation?
I am not insensible of the strength of the reasoning, by which
this court sustains that conclusion, but certainly all lawyers
would not assent. to it. Indeed one must be a lawyer. to assent
to it. At times there seems to be a legdl result which takes
no account of the obviously practical result. At times there
seems 'to come an antithesis between legal sense and common
sense.
* I say this in no reproach of the -law And' its judgments.
. I say it in no reproach .to the opinion of-the court. I recognize
it proceeds upon distinctions which are intelligible, although
tWhen the original plintiff, George. Sauer, beca'e the owner of the'proly
erty .there were standing upon it certain frame buildings, which had .been'
used as a pleasure- resort. -In 1890 he eiarged and improved the buildings
at'great expense and occupied them at the time 'of the erection of the structure in controversy. These buildings w6re destroyed'in 1897 by fire, and
the land is now vacant. And it may be noted that Sauer having died pending this writ of error,. his administratrix and heirs have. been substituted
as parties plaintiff.

560

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
McKENNA,

J., dissenting.

206 U. S.

I do not assent to them. My purpose is only to express the
view. that the -legal opinion Which I hold has justification in
the serious practical consequences that the plaintiffs in error
have sustained, by the violation of a right/which this court
said, in the Muhlker caise, citing Barnett-v. Johnson, 15 N. J.
Eq. 481, was founded in - the "common practice and sense of
the world."
From my standppint, what the courts of States other than
New, York have decided is of no consequehce to the pending
controversy, and I take no time therefore to dispute the pertinence of their citation to justify the structure of which plaintiffs complain.
I am authorized to say that MR. JUSTICE DAY concurs in
.this. dissent.,

