AMERICAN EXPRESS CO. OF N. Y. v. KENTUCKY. 139
206 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

substantially the same. There was the same averment in the
indictment; and more than that, there was an express stipulation made between counsel pending the trial in these words:
"It is further agreed at this point that the whiskey about
which he witness testified was delivered by the Adams Express Company and received by it in its office in Cincinnati
in the usual course of business as a common. carrier, and
carried by it to Barbourville, Kentucky, by the method
commonly known as C. 0. D."
There is nothing, therefore, to distinguish this case in
principle from the preceding, and the same judgment will
be entered in this as in that.
MR.

JuSTICE HARLAN

dissented. See p. 141, post.

AMERICAN, EXPRESS COMPANY OF NEW YORK v.
KENTUCKY.
No. 583.

Argued April 17, 18, 1907.-Decided May 13, 1907.

ERROR TO THE COTJRT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.
Decided on authority of Adams Express Company v. Kentucky, ante, p. 129..
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Lawrence Maxwell, Jr., and Mr. Edmund F. Trabue,
with whom Mr. Joseph S. Graydon was on the brief, for plaintiffs
in error.1
Mr. Napoleon B. Hays, Attorney General of the State of
Kentucky, with whom Mr. Charles H. Morris was on the
brief, for defendant in error.1
1 For abstracts of arguments see ante, p. 131 et seq.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.

JUSTICE BREWER

206 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case, like the two preceding, was a prosecution of the
express company for a violation of the Kentucky statute in
respect to "C. 0. D." shipments. It was tried in the Circuit
Court before a jury, which returned a verdict of guilty and
fixed the penalty at one hundred dollars fine, which verdict
was sustained and judgment entered thereon by the Circuit Court. The company appealed to the Court of Appeals,
which affirmed the judgment, 97 S. W. Rep. 807, 30 Ky. Law
Reporter, 207, and thereupon the case was brought here on
writ of error.
The consignee testified that he did not give an order for
the shipment, while there was testimony on behalf of the
consignor that such an order was filed with it in the name
of the consignee and the shipment made upon that order.
The brief of the Attorney General in the Court of Appeals,
after referring to the testimony of a witness on behalf of the
company, said:
"It will appear from his evidence that he resides in Cincinnati, Ohio, and is manager for a wholesale liquor firm located
in said city; that on March 21st, 1905, he received an order
filed as an Exhibit 'X' from Richard Graham of Hodgensville, Ky., for an order of whiskey to be sent C. 0. D., for the
delivery of which the warrant herein was issued against the
appellant company; that upon this order the whiskey in
question was shipped to said Graham at Hodgensville, Ky.,
and delivered to him and the charges therefor paid to the appellant company, who returned the same to the said house or
firm in Cincinnati, Ohio. There is no proof to show that the.
express company had any knowledge or information as to the
contents of said package so delivered, and there is nothing
to show any notice to it whatever of the contents of said
package.
"We, however, desire the court to pass upon the question,

AMERICAN EXPRESS CO. OF N. Y. v. KENTUCKY. 141
206 U. S.

HARLAN, J., dissenting.

in order that the many complications growing out of transactions similar to this may be simplified, and the multitude of
litigations growing out of the same lessened, whether or not
a company similar to the appellant can legally accept the
price for whiskey shipped into a local option district contrary to law, thus constitute itself a collecting agency for one
who is under the shield of interstate commerce protected
and permitted to ship whiskey into such districts. We are
of opiftion that an express company has no inherent right
under the laws of this State or under the- protection of interstate commerce to assume a duty not required of it, as a common carrier, and to do that which is in violation of the laws
of this State. Because we believe that this record in its present shape does not show that the appeal from the police court
to the Circuit Court of Larue County was properly and legally taken, and for the further reason that the express company has no right, in violation -of law, to accept the price in
a local option district of whiskey shipped C. 0. D., we ask that
the judgment be affirmed."
In view of the concession and contention of the Attorney
General we are of the opinion that there is nothing to substantially distinguish this case from the preceding. The same
judgment, therefore, will be rendered in this case as in those.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, dissenting.
I do not think that these are cases of legitimate interstate
commerce. They show only devices or tricks by the express
company to evade or defeat the laws of Kentucky relating
to the sale of spirituous, vinous or malt liquors. I dissent
from the opinion and judgment in each case.

