OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

206 U. S.

HISCOCK v. VARICK BANK OF NEW-YORK.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 244. Argued March 15, 1907.-Decided May 13, 1907.
Individual policies on the life of iL partner held as collateral security for
his individual indebtedness can be sold by the creditor and applied to
the payment of such individual debt although Tthe debtor was also liable
for partnership debts; and if the policies are fairly sold by the creditor
he can prove for the balance of the individual debt and the whole of the
partnership debt.
The extent and validity of a pledge are local questions and the decisions of
the state court are binding on this court.
Under the law of New York a pledgor may waive strict performance of the
common law duties of the pledgee and if so waived a sale may be held
without notice, demand or advertisement.
The bankruptcy act does not deprive a lienor of any remedy with which
he is vested by the state law.
134 Fed. Rep. 101, affirmed.

GENERAL

order in bankruptcy, No. XXXVI, relates to "Ap-

peals," and subdivision 3 thereof provides: '"In every case in
which either party is entitled by the act to take an appeal to
the Supreme Court of the United States, the court from which
the appeal lies shall, at or before the time of entering its judgment or decree, make and file a finding of the facts, and its
conclusions of law thereon, stated separately; and the record
transmitted to the Supreme Court of the United States on
such an appeal shall consist only of the pleadings, the judgment
or decree, the finding of facts, and the conclusions of law."
The Circuit Court of Appeals, in pursuance thereof, made
and filed its findirg of the facts and its conclusions of law
thereon.
August 18, 1903, a petition in bankruptcy was filed against
the firm of Jacob M. Mertens & Company and the individual
members thereof.. They were adjudicated bankrupts Septem-

HISCOCK v. VARICK BANK OF NEW YORK.
206 U. S.

29

Statement of the Case.

ber 15, and on the following fourteenth of October plaintiff
in error was elected trustee in bankruptcy of both the copartnership and the individual estates. At the time the petition was filed the firm was indebted, to the Varick Bank to
the amount of $27,893.85, evidenced by notes made or en,dorsed or guaranteed by Mertens & Company, five of which
aggregating $22,500, four for $5,000 each, and one for $2,500,
were collateral notes. These notes were alike in form and
contained the following provision:
"On the non-performance of this promise or upon the nonpayment of any of the liabilities above mentioned, or upon
the failure of the undersigned forthwith, with or without
notice, to furnish satisfactory additional securities in case of
decline as aforesaid,-then, and in either such case, this note
shall forthwith become due and 'payable, without demand or
notice and full power and authority are hereby given to said
holder to sell, assign and deliver the whole of the said securities, or any part thereof, or any substitutes therefor, or any
additions thereto,' or any other securities or property given
•unto or left in the possession of the holder by the undersigned,
for safe keeping or otherwise, at any Broker's Board or at
public or private sale, at the option of the said holder, without
either demand, advertisement or notice of any kind, which
are hereby expressly waived. At any such sale the said holder
may purchase the whole or any part of the property sold, free
from any right of redemption on the part of the undersigned,
which is hereby waived and released. -In case of sale for any
cause, after deducting all costs or expenses of every kind for
collection, sale or delivery, the said holder may apply the
residue of the proceeds of the sale or sales so made, to pay
one or more or all of the said liabilities to it or him as to it or
him shall seem proper, whether then due or not due, making
proper rebate for interest on liabilities not then due, and returning the overplus, if any, to the undersigned, who agree
to be and remain liable to the said holder for any deficiency
arising upon such sale or sales. The undersigned do hereby

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Cam.

206 U. S.

authorize and empower the said Bank (but no other holder)
at its option, at any time, to appropriate and apply to the
payment and extinguishment of any obligations or liabilities
of the undersigned to it, whether now existing or hereafter
contracted any and all moneys now or hereafter in the hands
of the said Bank, on deposit or otherwise, to the credit of or
belonging to the undersigned, whether the said obligations
or liabilities are then due or not due."
Endorsed upon the back of each of these notes and signed
by J. M. Mertens & Co. and J. M. Mertens appeared the following:
"In consideration of one dollar paid to the undersigned,
and of the making, at the request of the undersigned, of the
loan evidenced by the within note, the undersigned hereby
jointly and severally' guarantee to the Varick Bank of New
York, N. Y., its successors, endorsers or assigns, the punctual
payment, at maturity, of the said loan, and hereby assent
to all the terms and conditions of the said note and consent
that the securities for the said loan may be exchanged or
surrendered from time to time, or the time of payment of
the said loan extended without notice to or further assent
from the undersigned, who will remain bound upon this
guarantee, notwithstanding such changes, surrender or extension."
On the day the petition was filed, Mertens individually
was indebted to the bank in the sum of $25,489.62. This
indebtedness was upon his guaranty of the five collateral
notes, of one of which he was also the maker, the balance
being based upon his endorsement of sundry notes of third
parties amounting to about $3,000. Mertens individually,
to secure the payment of the indebtedness to the bank, pledged
to it two policies of insurance upon his life, one for $50,000,
No. 417,171, and the other for $10,000, No. 252,314. The
$50,000 policy was a free Tontine policy, issued February 15,
1889, payable to Mertens or his estate, the yearly premium
was $1,750, and the Tontine dividend period expired Feb-

HISCOCK v. VARICK BANK OF NEW YORK.
206 U. S.

31

Statement of the Case.

ruary 15, 1909. The $10,000 policy was issued December 21,
1882, payable to Jennia Mertens, wife of the insured, but in
the event of her prior death, to the children of the insured,
and the annual premium was $272.50. It was a Tontine
savings policy and the Tontine period was completed December 21, 1902, at which time Mertens, as the insured, withdrew in cash the share of the surplus apportioned to the
policy, and continued it in force on the ordinary plan. On
March 16, 1901, Jennie Mertens and the children of Jacob
and Jennie executed an assignment of the $10,000 policy to
the bank. On March 25, 1901, J. M. Mertens joined with
his wife in executing a further assignment of the same policy'
to the bank. March 21, 1901, Mertens individually executed
an assignment of the $50,000 policy to the bank. These
assignments contained no power of sale. In addition the
policies were pledged to the bank under the terms of the
collateral notes and agreements of pledge. It appeared from
the proofs that the claim against Mertens individually was
secured by an individual deposit of Mertens of the sum of
$6,000 as collateral, in addition to the policies.
Obligations aggregating $1,691.93, endorsed by Mertens,
had matured and remained unpaid on August 18, and on
September 15, obligations aggregating $13,570.47 had matured and remained unpaid, and in the latter amount were
included two of the collateral notes for $5,000 each and some
$3,000 of the notes of third persons, endorsed by Mertens
individually.
On or before- September 14, 1903, the two policies were
delivered, to a duly licensed auctioneer by the attorneys of
the bank with instructions to sell 'the same at public auction.
at the New York Real Estate Office salesrooms, to the highest
bidder, and they were offered for sale and sold to the highest
bidder, an agent of the bank, -on September 14, the $50,000
policy for the sumof $7,000 and the $10,000 policy for the
sum of $3,250. No notice of. the sale was given to any one
except the bank. In due time the bank filed With the referee

OCTOBER TERM; 1906.
Statement of the Case.

206 U. S.

in bankruptcy two proofs of claim, one against the co-partnership estate aggregating $27,893.85, and another against
Mertens for the sum of $9,118.37. Thereafter the claims
were amended. Objections to both were filed by the trustee,
alleging in substance that the sales of the policies were illegal;
that the value of the securities held by the bank had not been
ascertained according to the provisions of the bankruptcy
act, and that the trustee still owned the equity.
No other evidonce than appearing above was offered by
the trustee on the hearing before the referee under the objections. The referee held, in substance, that the sale of the
policies was null and void, and that the value of the securities
had not been ascertained according to the provisions of section 57h of the bankruptcy act, and refused to allow either
claim against the estate or estates. Counsel for the trustee
moved for the referee to direct a method by which the security held by the bank should be liquidated and that in so
doing he direct the bank to resell the policies on notice to
the trustee. The motion was objected to, but was granted
by the referee. The bank petitioned for a review, and the
District Court of the United States for the Northern District
of New York on such review approved the referee's rulings.
134 Fed. Rep. 101. From the order of the District Court
the bank appealed to the United States Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit.. That court, as previously
stated, filed its finding of the facts and its conclusions of
law, which conclusions of law were as follo"w's;
"1. That the order made by the referee and by the District Court was a-rejection of the claims of the Varick Bank.
"2. That th policies in question did not belong to the partnership estate, and that the claim against the partnership.
should have been allowed in full.
"3. That the sale of the policies under the facts as stipulated was a good and valid sale and passed a good and valid
title to said policies to the Varick Bank.
" 4. That the value of said policies was properly liquidated

HISCOCK v. VARICK BANK OF NEW YORK.
206 U. S.

33

Argument for Appellant.

by said sale under the terms of section 57h of the Bankruptcy
Act and that under said section the referee had no power to
make the order directing a resale thereof.
"5. That said Bankruptcy Act did not suspend or enjoin
the exercise of said power of sale during the time between
the filing of the petition and the adjudication in bankruptcy.
"6. That the 6laimn against the individual estate of Jacob
M. Mertens should be allowed in full.
"7. That the burden of proving that said sale was unfair
was upon the trustee."
The order of the District Court was reversed and the case
remanded with instructions to proceed conformably with
the opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals. 144 Fed. Rep.
818. The case was ihen brought to this court on appeal.
Mr. Will B. Crowley, with whom Mr. Ceylon H. Lewis
was on the brief, for appellant:
Between the time of filing the petition and the adjudication,
the bankruptcy proceedings themselves were an injunction
against any sale of the policies in question. After filing the
petition, no sale could be held without leave of the court.
Whitney v. Wenman, 198 U. S. 539; Bryan v. Bernheimer,
181 U. S. 188; Mueller v. Nugent, 184 U. S. 1. See also Lee v.
Franklin Say. Inst., Fed. Cases, 8188; Conner v. Long, 104
U. S. 244; McHenry v. La Socitd Frangaise,95 U. S.60;
Wiswall V. Sampson, 14 How. 66; State Bank v. Cox, 143 Fed.
Rep. 93; In re Reynolds, 127 Fed. Rep. 762; In re Brooks,
91 Fed. Rep. 509; In re Antigo, 123. Fed. Rep. 254; In re
Gutman, 114 Fed. Rep. 1010; In re Krinski, 112 Fed. Rep.
"
975.'
The pretended sale of the insurance policies held as collateral was a sham-and was-invalid at commonj]aw.' It constituted no liquidation nor evidence of the valt of thopolicies,
,which, it appeared, were worth more.
A pledgee cannot become the purchaser of pledged securities
except by the express permission of the pledgor; a pledgee
VOL. ccvi-3..

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellant.

206 U. S.

is a trustee for the benefit of the pledgor. Pauly v. State
Loan Co., 165 U. S. 620. See also: Easton v. German American
Bank, 127 U. S. 537; Perry on Trusts, 4th ed., see. 602, o. x.;
Laclede Bank v. Richardson, 156 Missouri, 275; Dana v. Buckeye Co., 38 Ill. App. 371; Jones on Pledges, sec. 648; Story
on Bailments, secs. 318-345.
The $6,000 deposit and the value of the policies should also
be applied in reduction of the amount of the partnership
claim. The express terms of the promissory notes so require. Itdid not appear that the policies belonged to J. M.
Mertens.
In all cases of mutual debts or mutual credits between
the estate of a bankrupt and a creditor, the account shall be
stated and one debt shall be set off against the other, and
the balance only shall be allowed or paid.
If the bank waived the terms of the notes and relied upon
its legal rights to offset this deposit, then the time when the
set-off was required to be made was at the time of the filing
of the petition. Collier on Bankruptcy, 4th ed., 496; In re
City Bank, Fed. Cases, 2742; Drake v. Rollo, Fed. Cases, 4066.
No' liquidation of securities which is binding upon the
bankruptcy court, can be made by a creditor except as directed by the court. The "value" of the securities was not
determined and the referee had the right under §57d to refuse to be bound by the alleged sale. Whitney v. Wenman,
198 U. S. 539; McHenry v. Socicte"Francaise,95 U. S.60.
Whether the court must direct the manner of liquidation
or not, sec. 57h provides that before having a claim allowed
a secured creditor must deduct "the value of securities" held
by himr.
The referee had some discretion; he had a conscience to
satisfy; he was required to ascertain the value and deduct
it, and sec. 57d, which provides that the consideration 'of
claims may "be continubd for cause by the court upon its
own. motion," was ample authority for him to require further
evidence of the value of the policies before allowing the claims.

HISCOCK v. VARICK BANK OF NEW YORK.
206 U. S.

35

Argument for AppeUee.

This court has recently held that this power can be exercised.
Whitney v. Dresser,200 U. S. 536.
Mr. Frederick M. Czaki, with whom Mr. Louis Marshall
was on the brief, for appellee:
The bank was not a secured creditor within the meaning of
the term "secured creditor" as defined by the bankrupt act.
That "secured creditor" has a limited meaning in bankruptcy
must always be remembered. In effect, no creditor is secured
in bankruptcy unless there is a lien held by him, or accruing
to his benefit, upon the property of the bankrupt.
The copartnership estate is entirely distinct from that of
the individual. The assets must be separately administered,
and can in no way be so commingled as to deprive a creditor
holding security upon the individual estate of a partner from
proving the full amount of his debt against the copartnership
estate, irrespective as to whether he has or not filed a claim
against the individual estate. In re Noyes Bros., 127 Fed.
Rep. 286; Gorman v. Wright, 136 Fed. Rep. 164; Swarts v.
Fourth Natl. Bank of St. Louis, 117 Fed. Rep. 1; In re Swift,
106 Fed. Rep. 65; In re Heyman, 95 Fed. Rep. 800; In re Bingham, 94 Fed. Rep. 796; In re Headley, 97 Fed. Rep. 765-771;
In re Coe, Powers Co., 1 Am. Br. Rep. 275; Collier on Bankruptcy, 3d ed., 321; Madison Sp. Bank v. Pierce, 137 N. Y.
.444.
The filing of the verified. proof of debt established the appellee's prima facie case, and entitled it, in the absence of
proof under the objections, to the allowance of the claim.
Sec. 57, Sub. Div. G, Act of 1898; Whitney v. Dresser, 200
U. S. 532.
The appellant's failure to offer any evidence of the facts
and circumstances attending the sale, or the value of the
policies, affords a presumption that such evidence, if adduced,
would operate to the prejudice of his contentions that the sale
was fraudulent, and the prices paid inadequate.
The appellant was content to rest his case tipon the mutual

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Codrt.

206 U. S.

concessions made, and therefore his failure to call the witnesses concerned in the transaction raises the presumption,
that had he done so, their testimony would have negatived
the slightest inference of fraud or bad faith.. Kirby .v. Tallmadge, 160 U. S. 379; Runkle v. Burnham, 153-U. S.216-225;
Graves v. The United States, 150 U. S. 118, 120; Clilton v.
The United States, 4 How. 242, 244; Choctaw & M. R. Co. v.
Newton, 140 Fed. Rep. 225-238; Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co. v.
Ellis, 54 Fed. Rep. 481, 483.
The coritract of pledge expressly granted to the appellant
an absolute power of sale, coupled with an interest, which
would have survived the death, and did survive the insolvency of the pledgor. Dixon v. Ewart, 3 Merivale's Rep. 322;
Corder v. Morgan, 18 Vesey, 344; Knapp v. Alvord, 10 Paige
Ch.Rep. (N. Y.) 205; Houghtaling v. Marvin, 7 Barb. (N. Y.)
412; Hutchins v. Hebbard, 34 N. Y. 24, 27; Weber v. Bridgman, 113 N. Y. 600.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after making the foregoing
statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The errors assigned question the conclusions of' law.
We need spend no time on the objection that the referee's
order did not amount to the rejection of the claims. What
the referee said was: "As the proof now stands, I shall,
therefore, decline to allow either claim as established against
the estate or estates."
The District Judge recited the action of the referee as
disallowing both claims, and entering "an order prescribing
the method for ascertaining the value of such policies," and
concluded: "The orders of the referee disallowing the claims
are approved and affirmed." 134 Fed. Rep. 102, 104. And
entered an order accordingly.
The Circuit Court of Appeals held "that the order appealed*
from was, -in substance and effect, a rejection of the claims,"
and said: "The bank insisted that its claims were for a definite

HISCOCK
206 U. S.

I.

VARICK BANK OF NEW YORK.

37

Opinion of the Court.

amount, the amount stated in its proofs of debt less the sum
which it had already derived from the sale of the securities.
The decision not only disallowed these claims, but left the
bank remediless, unless it should consent to allow a different
reduction."
We think it perfectly clear that the policies did not belong
to the partnership estate. They insured the life of J. M. Mertens, and were payable, one to him or his legal representatives,
and the other, to his wife or children, or to him in the event
of their death before his. And they had been assigned to the
bank by him individually and the members of his family, as
early as March, 1901, as collateral security, as well as by the
collateral notes before mentioned. The fact that Mertens
individually was the owner 'was in effect conceded, and the
objections to the claims raised no issue in regard to it. That
the partnership on. some occasion may have pledged the
policies in conjunction with Mertens' separate individual
pledge had no special significance.
The notes provided that the holder might apply the proceeds of a sale to "pay one, or more, or all of the liabilities
due it, as it shall deem proper, whether due or not." And it
had the right according to the settled rule in equity and in
courts of bankruptcy to apply the proceeds of the collateral
in extinction of the individual debts. If the sale was a good
.and valid sale and the value of the policies was properly
liquidated thereby, and applied on the individual indebtedness,
it follows that the claim against the partnership should have
been allowed in full.
And also the claim against the individual estate of Mertens
for the balance, after deducting the $10,250 and the $6,000.
The contracts of pledge were made, executed and. to be
performed in the State of New York, and the rights of the
parties were governed by the law of that State. No preference
"under the bankruptcy act was alleged or proved, nor was
•there any allegation or proof that the pledge of the securities
was in fraud of the rights of the creditors'or trustee. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

questions of the extent and validity of the pledge were local
questions, and the decisions of the courts of New York are
to be followed by this court. York-Manufacturing Company v.
Cassell, 201 U. S. 344; Thompson v. Fairbanks, 196 1. S. 516,
522; Humphrey v. Tatman, 198 U. S. 91. Here there was an
absolute power of sale coupled with an interest. The bank
had had both title and possession of the policies for a period

of more than two years before the filing of the petition. It
had a valid debt against both the copartnership and individual eftates, which is not questioned. It could, therefore,
make a sale under the power granted, and transfer title in
its own name. Numerous decisions of the Court of Appeals
of the State of New York sustain contracts of pledge waiving
the right of the pledgor to exact strict performance of the
common law duties of a pledgee. In the absence of fraud,
the pledgee may buy at his own sale -held without notice, or
demand, or advertisement, when power so to do is expressly
granted by the pledgor. Baker v. Drake, 66 N. Y. 518; Williams v.. Trust Company, 133 N. Y. 660; Toplitz v. Bauer,
161 N. Y. 325. And see National Bank-v.-Baker, 128 Illinois,
533; McDowell v. Chicago Steel Works, 124 Illinois, 491; Farmers' National Bank v. Venner, 78 N. E. Rep. 540.
It must be remembered that the Circuit Court of Appeals
found that there was no fraud in fact in the sale. In respect
of that Judge Wallace, delivering the opinion, said:
"The court below regarded the sale made by the bank as
a fraudulent sale. There was no evidence of fraud, unless
the facts which have been referred to justify the inference
of fraud. "We are at a loss to understand how fraudulent
conduct, can justly be imputed- to a pledgee when it appears
that whatever was done in executing the power -of sale was
done -in full compliance with the -terms of the pledge, and
when there is no evidence that any unconscionable advantage
was taken of the pledgor or his creditors. Doubtless the
pledgee cannot avail himself of his authority, however unlimited, to sacrifice the property wantonly,' or to purchase

HISCOCK v. VARICK BANK OF NEW YORK.
206 U. S.

39

Opinion of the Court.

it himself at a valuation so inadequate as to suggest a frauduent purpose. If the valuation in this case was unfair, the
burden was on the trustee to prove the fact."
The trustee did not offer to prove that others were prepared
to purchase and might have done so but for want of information,
or that the policies had a greater value than was realized at
the sale, or that he was prepared to redeem the pledge for
the benefit of the estate, nor did he offer to do so. There was
nothing in the evidence tending to show a wanton sacrifice
or an intention to buy in at'so inadequate a price as to justify
the inference of a fraudulent purpose.
Counsel for the 'trustee contends that the policies were worth
more than was obtained at the sale, because the bank's agent,
after having borrowed on the-strength of the policies the exact
amount of his bid immediately after the sale, subsequently
borrowed thereon $2,622.75; and also that from the terms of
the $50,000 policy it appeared that on the completion of the
Tontine dividend period, February 15, 1909, the assured had
the privilege to withdraw in cash $18,823, and in addition
the surplus which might then be apportioned. And counsel
called attention in' his brief filed herein, February 26, 1907,
to the case of Hiscock, Trustee, v. Mertens then pending in
this court as demonstrating that the $50,000 policy was worth
more than was realized at the sale. But the $2,622.75 loan
covered the next ensuing premiums on the policies with interest; and the $7,000 paid for the $50,000 policy with interest
and the premiums of February, 1904, 1905, 1906, 1907 and
1908, with interest, and the last premium, would appear to
have aggregated a total cost of $21,346.50; While if resort could
be properly had to the record in another case to piece out the
evidence in this the opinion in Hiscock v. Mertens, decided
March 25, 205 U. S. 202, states that the evidence showed
that this particular policy had a surrender value of $6,574.
And as to the $10,000 policy no suggestion was-made that the
$3,250 was not a full price or even more, nor could there be
in reason, for as Ray, J., said, In re Meriens et al., 131 Fed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.
-

206 U. S.

Rep. 972, "it had become a simple life policy, payable to the
wife of the assured, if living at his death; if not living, to his
children, if any; and in default of child or children to the
personal representatives of the assured. This policy concededly is so conditioned and incumbered, and the interest
of the trustee therein, if any, is so remote and uncertain
that it is of no practical value to the estate." Clearly there is
nothing on the face of the record to justify a charge of fraud
on account of inadequacy.
Section 57h provides: "The value of securities held by secured creditors shall be determined by converting the same
into money according to the terms of the agreement pursuant to which such securities were delivered to such creditors
or by such creditors and the trustee, by agreement, arbitration,
compromise, or litigation, as the court may direct, and the
amount of such value shall be credited upon such claims, and
a dividend shall be paid only on the unpaid balance."
The court was by this subdivision empowered to direct
a disposition of the pledge, or the ascertainment of its value,
where the parties had failed to do so by their own agreement.
It is only when the securities have not been disposed of by
the creditor in accordance with his contract that the court
may direct what shall be done in the premises. Of course
where there is fraud or a proceeding contrary to the contract
the interposition of the court might properly be invoked.
According to the terms. of the bankrupt act, the title of the
bankrupt is vested in the trustee by operation of law as of
the date of the adjudication. Act of 1898, § 70, a. e. By the
act of 1867, it was provided that as soon as an assignee was
appointed and qualified the judge or register should, by instrument, assign or convey to him all of the property of the
bankrupt, and such assignment shall relate back to the commencement of the proceedings in bankruptcy, and by operation
of law shall vest the title to such estate, both real and personal,
in the assignee." But § 70a of the act of 1898 omits the provision that the trustee's title "shall relate back to the com-

CHAPMAN & DEWEY LAND CO. v. BIGELOW.

41

Syllabus.

206 U. S.

mencement of the proceedings in bankruptcy," and explicitly
states that it shall vest "as of the date he was adjudicated a
bankrupt." When the petition in the present case was filed
the bank had a valid lien upon these policies for the payment
of its debt. The contracts under which they were pledged
were valid and enforceable under the laws of New York where
the debt was incurred and the lien created. The bankruptcy
act did not attempt by any of its provisions to deprive a
lienor of any remedy which the law of the State vested him
with; on the other hand, it provided, § 67d: "Liens given or
accepted in good faith and not in contemplation of or in fraud
upon this act, and for a present consideration, which have
been recorded according to law, if record thereof was necessary
in order to impart notice, shall not be affected by this act."
Mueller v. Nuget, 184 U. S. 1, is not to the contrary, as
explained in York',Manufacturing Company v. Cassell, 201
U. S. 344.
Judgment affirmed.

CHAPMAN AND DEWEY LAND COMPANY v. BIGELOW.
ERROR TO THE SUPP'ME COURT OF THE STATE OF.ARKANSAS
No. 262.

Argued April 12, 15, 1907.-Decided May 13, 1907.

Writ of error to review decision of the state court, dismissing bill to remove
cloud on title to lands under water, dismissed for want of jurisdiction on
the findings of the court below and the authority of the cases cited.
The rejection as evidence, by the state court, of a letter written by the
Secretary of the Interior to the Commissioner of the Land Office, on the
ground that it was res inter alios, held, in this case proper and not to
present any Federal 4uestion.
Writ of error to review 92 S. W. Rep. 534, dismissed.

THE facts are stated in the opinioU of -the court.

