OCTOBER TERM,' 1906.
Argument for Appellant.

206 U. S.

ROMEU v. -TODD..
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF .HE

UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF PORTO RICO.
No. 269. Argued April 19. 1907.-Decided May 27. 1907.
'All the local law of Porto Rico is within the legislative control of Congress,
and under § 8 of the Foraker Act, 31 Stat. 79, the local law remains in
force until altered, amended or repealed by Congress or in the manner
provided in the act, and cannot be disregarded by the courts.
The local statutory law of real. property in Porto Rico, requiring the giving
and recording of.a cautionary notice of a.pending suit in order to affect
third parties dealing with the. recorded owner, not having been altered,
amended or repealed, applies to a suit brought, on the equity side of the
District Court of the United States for Porto Rico, and notwithstanding
the provisions of § 34 of the Foraker Act, constructive notice of the
pendency of such an action is not, in the absence of the cautionary notice
required by the local law, operative against innoceni 'purchasers.
The District Court of the United States is not a constitotional court of the
United States; its authority emanates wholly from Congress under the
sanction-of its power to govern territory occupying the relation that
Porto Rico does 'to the United States.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Frederick L. Cornwell, for appellant, submitted:
Under the laws of Porto Rico a conveyance of real property
can neither be attacked nor rescinded where such property is
legally in the hands of a third party who has not acted in bad
faith. Civil Code, Rev. Stat., 1902, § 1262.
A bona .fide possessor is deemed to be a person who is not
aware that there exists. in,
his title or the manner of acquiring
it, any flaw invalidating the same.
Civil Code, Rev. Stat., ed.
1902, see. 436.
As appellant purchased the -land in question after' making
due and diligent inquiry in the proper office as to the conditions
of the title thereto, acquiring the title and possession thereof
in good-faith and in a legal manner, fraud, cheat or deceit

ROMEU v. TODD.
206 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

being absent from the transaction, he having no knowledge of
any flaw in his title, and recorded the same according to law,
his title and possession are unassailable. Mortgage Law, § 36.
Good faith is always presumed, and any person averring bad
faith on the part of the possessor is bound to prove the same.
Civil Code, Rev. Stat., ed. 1902, §437.
The possessor who believes himself owner has in his favor the
legal presumption that he possesses under a just title, and he
cannot be compelled to show the same. Civil Code, Rev. Stat.,
ed. 1902, §450.
Under these provisions the title of the appellant is unassailable, there being no inscription of the lis pendens and he being
a purchaser in good faith.
In Porto Rico the registry of the- property is the only office
for the information' of prospective purchasers of land as to conditions of title thereto, and one who purchases land in litigation
from one of the parties to the suit acquires a good title if upon,
due search being made in said registry nothing is found that
will affect the title to be acquired. Mortgage Law, article 42.'
Execution of the Mortgage Law, article 91; 1 Galindo & Escosura, Commentaries on the Mortgage Legislation of Spain,. 102.
The equitable doctrine of lis pedens being inapplicable to
the case at bar, the United States District Court should have
decided as the insular court would do in the premises.
Federal courts are bound to decide precisely 'as the state
,courts ought to do, where their decision will affect titles to
real property. Hinde v. Vattier, 5 Pet. 398; 8 id. 170; ' Union
PacificRy. Co. v. Reed, 80 Fed. Rep. 234, 239; Hoge v. Magnes,
85 Fed. Rep. 355-357.
The United States courts also follow the decisions of the
highest court of a State where they settle rules of law relating
to peal property. Myers V. Reed, 17 Fed. Rep. 404; O'Connell
v. Reed, 5 C. C. A. 586; Belding v. Hebard, 43 C. C. A. 296-308.
Mr. N. B. K. Pettingill, for appellee, submitted:
If a litigation pending in any court of the United States

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellee.

206 U. S.

within the States had taken the same course as that herein involved, and the same question now brought before the court on
this appeal had come from a Federal court in any one of the
States, there can be no question how it would be decided, because there has been a uniform line of decisions as to the application of the equitable doctrine of Ks pendens, which is entirely
distinct from the statutory lis pendens provided for in many
States in suits at law. See Pomeroy's Equity Jurisprudence,
§§ 632 and 633; Murray v. Ballou; 1 Johns. Ch. 566; Union
Trust Co. v. Southern &c. Co.,'130 U. S.565; Mellen v. Moline Iron Works, 131 U. S.352; Murray v. Lylburn, 2 Johns.
Ch. 441; County of Warren v. Marcy, 97.U. S.105; Miller v.
Sherry, 2 Wall. 237; Terrell v. Allison, 21 Wall. 289; Lacassagne v. Chapuis, 144 U. S.119.
Congress intended to grant full equity powers to the United
States court established in Porto Rico; otherwise it could not
have jurisdiction of*all cases cognizant in the Circuit Courts,
nor could it proceed therein-in the same manner as a Circuit
Court. This provision has always been by that court interpreted as such a grant of power, and further, as a requirement
to maintain the distinction between the law and equity sides
of the court and the pleading and procedure to be followed on
each side, and that interpretation has had the tacit approval of
this court, by its. consideration and decision of cases purely
equitable in their nature, in Rodriguez v. Vivoni, 201 U. S.371,
-and Garrozi v. Dastas, 204 U. S.64.
While the engrafting of an equitable jurisdiction on the:laws
of Porto Rico constituted a departure from the system of law
formerly prevailing there, it does not follow that such departure
was not a beneficient exercise of the power of the new sovereign.
In any event such was the intention of the Congress and an
evidence of its desire to give to the new territory, by bestowing
upon it the dual system of courts existing'in the States, all the*
advantages for the most perfect administration of justice.
Noonan v..Braley, 2 Black, 499; Kirby v. Lake ShoreR. R. Co.,
120 U. S.130.

ROMEU v. TODD.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The main contention of appellant is that even courts of
equity of the United States in a State are bound by the statutory provisions for recording a lis pendens when such provision has been enacted in such State. But in this contention
counsel fail to distinguish between cases at law and cases in
equity, and an investigation of the cases cited will show that
they are cases upon the law side of the court. Vance v. Wesley,
85 Fed. Rep. 157 and Smith V. Gale, 144 U. S.509, discussed;
Bondurant v. Watson, 103 U. S., 281, distinguished.
MR.

JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

Robert H. Todd obtained a judgment in the United States
Provisional Court of Porto Rico in the year 1900 for the sum
of $2,946.05 against Pedro and Juan Agostini, and execution
to enforce the same was returned nulla, bona. Thereupon
Todd, in 1901, filed a bill in equity in the United States court
for the District of Porto Rico against the judgment debtors
,(the two Agostinis) and one Ana Merle -for the purpose of enforcing the judgment upon certain real property of which Ana
Merle stood upon the public records as the owner. The ground
was that the property had been paid for .with the money of the
Agostinis and was hence, liable to'be applied to their debts.
Without further detail it is only necessary to say that the court
decreed that a certain parcel of land described in the bill had
been purchased by Ana Merle with funds belonging to Pedro
Agostini, and said Agostini "was the owner, of the equitable
and beneficial title of the same." And it was ordered that to
pay the indebtedness to Todd,. the property, with the improvements thereon, be sold at public sale by a commissioner appointed for that purpose. Whilst this suit was pending, before
decree, the piece of real estate embraced by the decree was sold
by.Merle to Higinio Romeu, the plaintiff in error. The present
bill Was filed on behalf of Romeu against Todd to enjoin the
sale of this piece of property. The bill alleged the bringing of
the Todd . suit, the purchase of Romeu pending such suit, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

decree rendered therein as above stated -and the fact that the
decree was about to be executed. It was averred that the purchase by Romeu had been made for an adequate consideration,
with the utmost good faith and without knowledge of the, pendency of the Todd suit; that the property since it was bought
by Romeu had been largely improved by him, and that, as no
cautionary notice concerning the Todd suit, as authorized and
required by the law of Porto Rico, had been put upon the
records, the property acquired by Romeu under the circumstances: alleged was not subject, in Romeu's hands, to the Todd
-decree. A temporary restraining order was allowed. The bill
was demurred to on two grounds-first, that it stated no cause
of action, and second that, admitting all its averments to be
true, as the property was bought whilst the equity cause was
pending, the purchaser took subject to the lis pendens. The
demurrer was sustained, and, Romeu electing not to plead
further, a final decree was'made dismissing the bill.
The court below, in its opinion, ' assumed that under the local
law a third party in good faith purchasing from or dealing with
the registered owner of real estate, without notice in fact of
the existence of a pending suit concerning, the title to property, was not to be treated by operation of law as constructively
notified of

.the

pendency of the suit, unless the

.cautionary

notice, which the law of Porto Rico required to be put upon
the record, was given. But whilst so declaring,' it was nevertheless decided that the local rule of real property referred to
was not controlling in this case. This ruling Was based upon.
the conception that the constructive notice resulting from a
suit in equity in the United States court for Porto Rico was to
be imputed, irrespective of the positive requirements of the
local law. The court said:
"As this is a proceeding on the equity side of .the court it is
governed by-.the principles of equity followed bY the Federal
courts as distinghighed from suits at; law where local statutes
are adopted. As local laws have no binding force upon the
United States courts in matters of procedure. in equity and

ROMEU v. TODD.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

.maritime law, the laws of Porto Rico relating to filing of notice
of lis pendens have therefore no application in this case and the
sufficiency of this bill must be determined by the rules and
principles followed in like proceedings in the courts of the
United States. Stewart v. Wheeling & Lake Erie R. R. Co., 29
L.,R. A: 438."
Proceeding then to apply what it deemed to be the conclusive
force of decisions of this court, it was held that the pendency
of an equity cause in a court of the United States affecting real
property constituted constructive notice as. to third parties
and was therefore operative against those dealing with the
owner as to such property in good faith, any rule of state law.to
the contrary.
In the argument at bar on behalf of the appellee the correctness of the ground upon which the court based its decision is
insisted on as follows:
*'The main contention of appellant, however, seems to be
that even courts of equity of the United States in a State are
bound by the statutory provisions for recording a lis pendens
when such provision has been enacted in such State. But in
this contention counsel fail to distinguish between cases at law
and cases in equity,
Nevertheless, in substance, it is contended that even if the
court below was wrong in its reasoning, it was right in its conclusion. This rests on the proposition that the court mistakenly
assumed that the local law provided for a notice of the pendency
of suit of the character of the Todd case and protected an innocent purchaser where a notice was not given.
That issue arises, ' therefore, and as it underlies the question
whether the court should have, applied the local law, we come
first to ascertain the local law concerning notice and its effect.
It appears 'certain that .by the ancient Spanish law the sale
or the dismemberment by mortgage of the ownership of real
property, which was involved in a pending litigation, was forbidden. (Law 13, Tit. 7, Part 3; see also Pesolution of Novem
ber 29, 1770, referred to in commentaries upon the Spanish

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

mortgage legislation by D. Leon Galindo y De Vera, ed. 1903,
vol. 2, p. 594.) The result was that acts done in violation of.
the prohibitory law were Void, even as to innocent third parties.
But as pointed out by the author, just referred to, the prohibition in question. was. omitted from the Spanish Civil Code, and,
therefore, the right to deal with real property, involved in a
pending litigation, was no longer prohibited. And when the
c6mprehensivb system, known as the mortgage law, came to be
adopted,., the power of the record owner of real property involved- in litigation to mortgage f or coitract concerning the
same was not left to the: implication resulting from the disappearance of the' ancient .prohibitions, but was expressly
recogrized. by articles 71 and 107 of the mortgage laws. D.
Leon Galindo y De.Vera, in his commentaries, considering the
provisions of the mortgage law concerning the power of the*
owner of real property to deal.with it pendente lite, and of the
right of the plaintiff in a suit affecting such'property to..obtain
a cautionary n6tice, and his duty to record the same in order
to affect third parties, points out that these provisions were
the natural result of three considerations: respect for the rights
of property, regard for. the rights of one seqking redress in the
courts against such owner, and solicitude for the public interest.
Because.of the first the ownei was not deprived of his right to
dispose of his real property merely because'a suit relating to the
same had- been brought against him, but was .left free to make
contracts concerning the property, if ahyone could be found
willing to do so, and thusassume the risk of the pending litigation., On account of the second consideration a means was provided for giving a notice by' which one who brought suit w6uld
.be able to secure the results of an uitimatk decision in.his favor.
Because of the third those dealing in good faith, in reliance on
the public records, were protected from the risks of pending
-suits, unless the. cautionary notice was made and recorded
according to the statute.
That the esse nce of the statute was the protection of inno-cent third parties dealing with the recorded owner when no

365

ROMEU v. TODD.
206 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

cautionary notice had been given is obvious. Answering the
contrary contention, D. Leon Galindo y De Vera says (p. 192):
"That is not so; if the mortgagor has on the record the ownership of the properties in litigation and those who claim the properties have not made the cautionary notice on .the register, and
the writing establishing the mortgage does not show that the
properties are in litigation, the debtor can freely mortgage them,
and the mortgage will have effect, even when the decision of the
case is in favor of the plaintiffs, declaring that the ownership
of the properties mortgaged belongs to them."
See articles 71 and 107 of the "Mortgage Law for Cuba,
Proto Rico and the Philippine Islands," War Department
Translation, 1899, and see also title 2 of the same law concerning the method of recording instruments and the effect of such
record, and title 3 relating to cautionary notices.
Granting that the general result of the local law is as we have
just stated it,- the contention yet is that the character of the
Todd suit and the nature of the relief sought therein caused it
to be not within the scope of the mortgage law, and the provisions thereof for giving a cautionary notice. This is based
upon article 42 of the mortgage law, reading:
"Art. 42. Cautionary notices of their respective interests in
the "corresponding public registries may be demanded by:
"1. The person who enters suit for the ownership of the real
property, or for the creation, declaration, modification, or extinction of any property right.

"

And article 91 of the general regulations for the execution
of the mortgage law,' War Department Translation, 1899, as
follows:
"The person who brings action for ownership, referred to in
case No. 1 of article 42 of the law, may at the same time or
subsequently request that a cautionary notice thereof be made,
offering to indemnify any damages which may be caused the
defendant thereby, should he win the suit."
Now, it i1 said when the issues in the Todd suit are clearly
apprehended they were not within the purview of the articles

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.,
Opinionof. the Court.

206 U. S.

in question, since that suit did not seek to divest Ana Merle of
the ownership of the:-property standing in her name on the.
public records, but simply to subject such property to the payment. of the indebtedness due by the Agostinis to Todd. This,
however assumes that article 42 embraces only'sults having
for their object the entire divestiture of ownership-that is,
the divestiture of perfect ownership-whilst the text of the
article relied upon not only relates to suits so operating, but
also to those which seek the modification "or extension of any
property right." But even if the proposition relied upon
might find some color of supporl in a narrow and technical. construction of the piovisions of the mortgage law referred, to, its
unsoundness is, we think, demonstrated by a consideration of
other provisions of the law, especiallyarticles 2 and 23 of that
law, the first reading as follows:
"In the registries mentioned. in the preceding article shall .be
recorded:
-1.

instruments

transferring, or declaring ownership of

realty, or of property rights thereto.
"2. Instruments by which rights of use and occupancy,
emphyteusis, mortgage, annuity (censo), servitudes, and any
others by which estates are created, acknowledged, modified,
or extinguished."
The second (art. 23) reads as follows:
"The instruments mentioned-in articles 2 and 5, which are
not duly recorded or entered in the registry, cannot prejudice
third persons."
Mark the constructive power of the provision of the second
paragraph of article 2, requiring the registry, in order that they
may affect third parties, of all acts "by. which estates are cre-'
ated, acknowledged, modified or extinguished" when applied
to the words of article 43, providing for the registry of a cau.tionary notice, not only of all suits for the "ownership of real
property," but, likewise of suits brought "for the creation,
declaration, modification or extinction of an property right."
Besides,:.when the purpose of the mortgage law is borne in

ROMEU v. TODD.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

mind, it is apparent that the interpretation relied upon would
frustrate the very ends which the adoption of the law was
intended to subserve.
But, passing this view, it is, we think, clear that the proposition rests upon a misconception of the true import of the bill
in the Todd case. The property stood upon the records, not
in the name of the Agostinis, but in the name of Merle. The
bill alleged that the Agostinis, and not Merle, owned the property, because it had been bought and paid for by the former.
The purpose, therefore, of the suit was to change the recorded
title by in effect obtaining a decree placing the property in the
name of the real. owner. In the very nature of things, under
the civil law, the cause. of action thus asserted was ,not merely
revocatory (the Actio Pauliana of the Roman law), but was
an action to unmask a simulation. ' ' It was therfore essentially
revendicatory. .Bonnafon v. Wiltz, 10 La. Ann. 657; and see
the copious list of authorities illustrating the subject, compiled
in 2 Hennen's La. Dig. 1031, No. 1). The decree rendered
conforms to this conclusion. It held Pedro Agostini to be the
"owner of the equitable and beneficial title" to the property.
It therefore divested the registered owner, Merle, of every
essential element of .ownership. This is clearly the case, since,
the fructus, the uus and the abusus could not be in one who
was stripped of all beneficial interest. This becomes more
clearly manifest when it is borne in mind that the civil law prevailing in Porto Rico is oblivious concerning a technical or formal distinction between legal and equitable title. As beyond
peradventure, then, the suit and the decree took from the recorded owner the ownership upon which necessarily the innocent third party must have relied, we think it clearly follows
that the cautionary notice required by the provisions of the
mortgage law was essential to affect the innocent third person.
The remaining question, then, is, Was the local statutory
rule of real property, requiring the giving and recording of a
cautionary notice of the pending suit in order to affect innocent
third parties dealing with the recorded owner, applicable to a

368

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinionof the Court.

206 U. S.

suit brought .on the equity'side of the United Statts District
Court for Porto Rico? Let'us assume, for the sake ofaxgument,
that the lower court correctly reasoned that an innocent third
.-party would be' affected by the constructive notice resulting
froni the pendency of an equity cause in a: Circuit Court of the
United States sitting within a State. Again, let us further
assume, for the sake of argument, that it was correctly-held
.that the rule Nust stated would govern, alt hugh there had been
,.ho compliance with a statutory rule of. property prevailing in
such State requiring the recording of a notice of the pendency
of suits affecting real property, in order to make the same
operative' against innocent third parties. Neither of these concessions, we think, is here controlling. The District Court of
the United States for Porto Rico is in no sense a constitutional
court 6f the United States, and its authority- emanates wholly
from Congress -under the sanctioni of the power possessed by
that body to -govern territory occupying the relation to the
United States. which Porto Rico. does.. Now, by section. 8 of
the act dommonly known as the Foraker Ac't (31 Stat. 79,chap. 191) it is provided as follows:
"SEc. 8. That the aws and ordinances of Porto Rico now
in force continue in full force and effect, except as altered,
amended, or modified hereinafter, or as altered or -modified
by military orders and decrees -in force Iwhen this act shall
take effect, and so far as the same are not inconsistent or in
coflict with the statutory laws of the United States not localy inapplicable, or the provisions hereof, until aatered,
amended, or repealed by the legislative authority hereinafter
provided for PortoRico or by act of Congress of the United
States.
The provision just quoted, it may be added, is qualified by a
proviso repealing 6numerated provisions of the local laws
concerning marriage, divorce and other subjects.
Now, as a general proposition, it is cleatr that as a result of
the relation which Porto Rico, occupies .to the United States all
the local law- of that island has its ultimate sanction in the
-

ROMEU v. TODD.
206 U. S.

Opinionof the Court.

lawful exercise by Congress of its legislative authority.- So
also, as Congress has provided that the local law, "not inconsistent or in conflict with the statutory laws of the United
States," shall remain in force "until altered, amended, or repealed by the legislative authority- hereinafter provided for
Porto Rico or by act of Congress of theUnited States," itmust
follow that the local law of real property prevailing in the island
is controlling until changed, as provided by Congress. This
being true, we cannot assent to the conclusion that the 'court
of the United 'States created by Congress had the authority
to disreg~ad the local law which Congress by -express legislation
directed t' be continued in force. But it is said that the act
(sec. 34) in providing for the District Court of the United
States for Porto Rico declared, among other things, that that
court shall have, "in addition to the ordinary jurisdiction of
District-Courts of the United States,. jurisdiction of all cases
cognizant in the Circuit Courts of the United States, and shall.
proceed therein in the same manner as a Circuit Court." From'
this it is argued that the constructive notice resulting from the
equity cause in the District Court for Porto Rico must, in the
nature-of things, be operative against innocent purchaserfs
without reference to the local law prevailing for cautionary
notices and registry, if such result would flow from an equity
cause pending in a constitutional court of the United States
sitting within one of the States. But the proposition begs the
question, since it puts out of view the-express provision of the
act of Congress sanctioning a.nd enforcing the local law, except
in so far as Congress had deemed fit to abrogate the same.
Considering the manifest intent of Congress, we cannot close
our eyes to the fact that that body, in providing a government
for Porto Rico, evidently intended to preserve to the people of
that island the system of local law to which they had 'been
accustomed, nor can we, consistently with this enlightened
purpose, assent to the conclusion that the mere provision of
the act, by which a court was created to enforce the local law,
empowered the court so created to set at naught the local law
VOL. ow-2 4

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

by disregarding fundamental rules of real property governing
in the island, thereby creating confusion and uncertainty, and
hence tending to the destruction of the rights of innocent third
.parties. Especially is this conclusion rendered necessary when
a consideration, previously adverted to, is again called to mind,
that is, that all the local law of Port6 Rico is within the legislative control of Congress. The considerations which we have
thus expounded are illustrated in various other aspects by
previous rulings, concerning the construction and import of
the Foraker Act. Crowley v. United States, 194 U. S. 461;
Rodriguez v. United States, 198 U. S. 156; Seralles v. Esbri, 200
U.,S. 103; American R. Co. v.Castro, 200 U. S. 453.
The decree of the District Court for Porto Rico must be reversed,
and the cause remanded for further proceedings conformable
to this opinion.

UNITED STATES v. HEINSZEN & COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE. COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 580.

Congress in dealing
authority to such
agents as fully as
act of Congress.
The act of June 30,

Argued April 9, 10, 1907.-Decided May 27, 1907.

with the Philippine Islands may delegate legislative
agencies as it may select and may ratify the acts of
if such acts had been specially authorized by a prior
1906, 34 Stat. 636, legalizing and ratifying the imposi-

tion and collection of duties by the authorities of the United States in
the. Philippine Islands prior to March 8, 1902, was within the power of
Congress and can be given effect without depriving persons who had paid
such duties of their property without due process of law or taking their
property for public use without compensation in violation of the Fifth.
Amendment.
The mere commencement of a suit does not affect the right of Congress to
ratify executive acts and the fact that at the time the ratifying statute
was enacted actions were pending for the recovery of sums paid does not
cause the statute to be repugnant to the Constitution. References in
De Lima v. Bidwell, 182 U. S., as to want of power to ratify after suit
brought are to be regarded as obiter dida.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

370

