In re JAMES POLLITZ.
206 U.

Statement of the Case.

In re JAMES POLLITZ, PETITIONER.
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUS.
No. 16,original.

Argued April 8, 1907.-Decided-May 27, 1907.

The writ of mandamus cannot be used to perform the office of an appeal or
writ of error; it will not issue to compel the Circuit Court to reverse its decision refusing to remand a case removed by a defendant on the ground
that the controversy between it and the plaintiff is separate and fully
determinable without the presence of the other defendants _Such a decision being within the jurisdiction and discretion of the court should
be reviewed after final judgment by appeal or writ of error.

JAMES POLLITZ, a citizen of the State of New York, brought
suit in the .Supreme Court of the State of New York for the
county of New York against the'Wabash Railroad Company,
a, consolidated railroad corporation existing under the laws
of the States of Ohio, Michigan, Illinois and Missouri; and a
citizen of the State of Ohio.; and sundry other defendants,
chiefly citizens and residents of the State of New York,. being.
individual directors of the railroad company; lihe 4trust company, registrar of the stock of the railroad company; a committee representing debenture holders; mortgage trustees, etc.
The complaint alleged in substance that the railroad company
in 1906 entered' into certain negotiations for the retirement
of the debenture mortgage bonds of the company through
the issue of other securities, both bonds and stocks, and that
the plan to accomplish that end 'was subsequently authorized
.and approved bythe stockholders of the company and debenture mortgage bondholders, at a meeting at Toledo, October 22,
1906, at which the issue of certain new bonds and preferred
and common stock of the company and the exchange of certain new bonds, preferred and common stock, for the company's
debenture mortgage bonds was authorized and approved. The
complaint alleged that the plan of exchange was unlawful.
unauthorized, and contrary to the laws of the States in which

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

206 U. S.

the company was organized, and was unjust, inequitable and
injurious to complainant, who claimed to be the owner of
one thousand shares of the common capital stock of the railroad company. It was also alleged that ninety per cent. of
the debenture holders voted in favor of the exchange, and that
the plan had been carried out as to more than nine-tenths of
the debenture bonds, and new bonds and stocks to the requisite
amount had been issued. And it was prayed that the plan
"'be decreed and adjudged to be ultra vires, and that all said
bonds and the preferred and common stock, lsed and issued
and applied by the said Wabash Railroad Company for the
purpose and plan of said scheme be decreed and adjudged of
no effect." The complaint prayed in the alternative that if
the court should decree that Pollitz was not entitled to the
main relief he had asked,then that he might have an accounting by the defendant officers and directors of the railroad
company, etc., in respect of the new bonds and common and
preferred stock which had been issued under the plan of exchange.
The railroad company filed its petition to remove the case
into the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York, which set forth iri
substance the foregoing
matters, and further averred:
"That your petitioner disputes the claim against it as set
forth by the 'plaintiff in his complaint, and denies that the
plaintiff is entitled to the judgment and relief prayed for
against this.petitioner or to any judgment or 'relief against it;
and this-petitioner alleges that the fundamental and primary
controversy, as set forth in said complaint, is whether or not
the plan for the exchange of the debenture mortgage bonds
by this petitiofer, the authorization and creation by it of the
new securities in the said complaint set forth and the issue
of the same by it for the purpose of carrying said plan into
effect is, as alleged in.
said complaint, illegal, unlawful, void
and prohibited by the charter of this petitioner and the laws
under which it is incorporated; and whether said new se-

In re JAMES POLLITZ..
206 U. S.

Argument for Petitioner.

curities are, as alleged in said complaint, invalid and void;
and that such controversy is a separable and distinct controversy between the-plaintiff and this petitioner.
"That a complete determination of said controversy can
be had without the presence of any of the defendants in this
action other than this petitioner; and that all of said other
defendants are neither indispbnsable nor necessary parties
to the complete determination of said -controversy.
"That the foregoing controversy, which is solely between
the plaintiff and the petitioneri must be determined before
any other controversy alleged in the complaint can be considered and determined; and that said controversy between
the plaintiff and this petitioner, as above set forth, is separate
and distinct from any other or further controversy,
"That said fundamental and primary controversy herein
between the plaintiff and this petitioner is a controversy wholly
between citizens of different States-to wit: Between the
plaintiff, a citizen of the State of New York, and this petitioner,
a citizen of the State of Ohio."
The: cause was removed, and Pollitz made a motion to remand, which was denied by the Circuit Court, Lacombe, J.,
presiding.
Pollitz thereupon applied to this court on March 18 for leave
to file a petition for a writ of mandamus directing the cause
to be remanded to the state court. Leave to file. was granted
March "25, and a rule was entered thereon returnable April 8,
to which return was duly made to the effect that the order
denying the motion of Pollitz to remand the cause had been
made and entered in the exercise of the jurisdiction and
judicial discretion conferred" upon the circuit judge by law
and for the reasons. expresser in his opinion filed with the
order. The case was heard on the return to the rule.
Mr. Roger Foster for petitioner:
The Circuit Court of the United States had no original
jurisdiction of the case, since the presence of all the defendants

OCTOBER. TERM, 1906.
Argument for Petitioner.

206 U. S.

was indispensable to an adjudication concerning any part
of the relief prayed against the Wabash Railroad Company.
There can be no right to the removal of the case of a controversy, of which that court could not have taken original
jurisdiction. Ex parte Wisner, 203 U. S. 51.
There can be no separable controversy where all the parties
are indispensable to the determination of the matters in dispute between the plaintiff and the defendant, who seeks a
removal.
There tan be no removal, when an indispensable party to
the controversy is a' citizen of the same State as any party
on the side opposite to him. When the removal is because
there are twb controversies, the case must be separable into
parts, so that in one of them a controversy will be presented
wholly between tcitizens of different States, which can be fully
determined without the presence of the other parties. Gardner v. Brown, 21 Wall. 36; Hyde v. Ruble, 99 U. S. 407; FraserV.
Jennisen, 106 U. S. 191; Winchester v. Loud, 108 U. S. 130;
Shainwald v. Lewis, 108 U. S. 158; Ayers v. Wiswall, 112
U. S. 187; St. Louis & S. F. R. Co. v. Wilson,, 114 U. S. 60;
Torrence v. Shedd, 144 U. S. 527; Merchants' Cotton Press &
Storage Co. v. Insurance Co. of North America, 151 U. S. 368;
Bixby v. Couse, Fed. Cas. No. 1451; S. C., 8 Blatchf. 73; Maine
v. Gilman,'11 Fed. Rep. 214; Connell v. Utica,'U. & E. R. Co.,
'13 Fed. Rep. 241; New Jersey Zinc & Iron Co. v. Trotter,
18 Fed._Rep. 337; Gudger v. Western N. C. R. Co., 21 Fed.
Rep., 81; Capital City Bank v. Hodgin, 22 Fed. Rep. 209;
Snow V. Smith, 88 Fed. Rep. 657; Insurance Co. of North
America v. Delaware Mut. Ins. Co., 50 Fed. Rep. 243; Burke v.
Flood,' 1 Fed. Rep. 541; Lyddy v. Gano, 26 Fed. Rep. 177;
Perrin, v: Lepper, 26 Fed. Rep. 545; Vinal v. Continental
Const. & Imp. Co., 35 Fed. Rep. 673; Rogers v. Van Nortwtck,
45. Fed. Rep. 513; Barth v. Coler, 60 Fed. Rep. 466; Carter v.
Scott, 82 Georgia, 297; $. C., 8 S. E. Rep. 421; Burch v. Davenport & St. P. R. Co., 46 Iowa, 449; S. C., 26 Am. Rep. 150;
Succession of Townsend v. Sykes, 38 La. Ann.' 410; National

In re JAMES POLLITZ.
206 U. S.

Argument for Petitioner.

Docks & New Jersey Junction Connecting Ry. Co. v., Pennsylvania R. Co., 52 N. J. Eq. (7 Dick.) 58; S. C., 28 Atl. 71.
Where there are separate remedies against the seyeral
parties upon the same cause of action, there is no separable
controversy. Gudger v. Western N. C. R. Ca., 21 Fed. Rep. 81;
Winchester v. Loud, 108 U. S. 130; Merchants' Cotton Press &
Storage Co. v., Insurance Co. of N. A. 151 U. S. 368; Ayers v.
Wiswall, 112 U. S. 187.
Where defendants are interested in separate parts of the
same subject matter, no separable controversy is presented.
Temple v. Smith, 4 Fed. Rep. 392; Merchants' Nat. Bank v.
Thompson, 4 Fed: Rep. 876; Freidlerv. Chotard, 19 Fed. Rep.
227; In re City of Chicago, 64 Fed. Rep. 897.
The trustees of the new mortgage, the issue of bonds under
which is attacked, and probably some other representatives
of the bondholders, by whom the complaint prays that a reexchange may be compelled of whatever has been exchanged,
and that a further exchange may be enjoined; the depositary
of the new securities, the registrar of the new stock, and the
directors charged with fraud, are all indispensable parties
to the relief here sought. Brown v. Trousdale, 138 U. S. 389.
Every party to a contract is a necessary party in a suit to
set it aside, or unless its performance would amount to a
nuisance to enjoin a person from bringing it into effect. Northern Ind. R. Co. v. Michigan C. R. Co., 15 How. 233; Shields v.
Barrow, 17 How. 130; Coiron V. Millaudon, 19 How. 113; .Jaylords v. Kelshaw, 1 Wall. 81; Ribon v. Railroad Cos., 16 Wall.
446; Lawrence v. Wirtz, 1 Wash. C. C. 417; Tobin v. Walkinshaw, 1 .McAll. 26; Bell v. Donohoe, 17 Fed. Rep. 710; Florence
S. Mach. Co. v. Singer Mfg. Co., 4'Fisher's Pat. Cas. 329;
S. C., 8 Blatchf. 113; Chadbourne v. Coe, 45 Fed. Rep. 822;
Empire C. & T. Co. v, Empire C. & M. Co., 150 U. S.
159; New Orleans W. Co. v. New Orleans, 164 U. S. 471;
S. C., in C.,C. A.- 51 Fed. Rep. 479; Clarke v. Great Northern
Ry. Co., 81 Fed. Rep. 282; Wall v. Thomas, 41 Fed. Rep. 620;
Raphael v. Trask, 118 Fed. Rep. 777.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Petitioner.

206 U. S.

Since both the debenture bondholders and the holders
of the new bonds are numerous, it is absolutely indispensable
that some one should be made a .party to protect their interests.
The trustee of the mortgage is, consequently, an indispensable
party. Ribon v. Railroad Co., 16 Wall. .446; Wenger v. Chicago & E. R. Co., 114 Fed. Rep. 34.
The bondholders' committee is also an indispensable party,
being a party to the original contract which provided for this
illegal exchange of securities. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co. v.
Cape Fear & Y. V. Ry. Co., 71 Fed. Rep. 38.
The trustee of an active trust is always an indispensable
party, Knapp v. Railroad Co., 20 Wall. 117; Rust v. Britol
Silver Co., 58 Fed. Rep. 611; Tell v. Walker, Fed. Cas.
No. 13,812; Thair v. Life Association -of America, 112 U. S.
717; Pepper v. Fordysche, 119 U. S. 469.
The registrar of the stock, the Mercantile Trust Company,
and the United States Mortgage and Trust Company, which is
the-depositary of the new bonds, are also indispensable parties.
It is well settled that a stakeholder in the possession of
property is an indispensable party to a suit affecting the same.
Wilson v. Oswego Twp., 151 U. S. 56; Massachusetts & S. Constr.
Co. v: Cane Creek Twp., 155 U. S. 283; Scoutt v. Keck, 73 Fed.
Rep. 900.
The remand was not denied because of the pendency of
any other suit in the Federal court; and had that been so,
'it would have been no justification for the removal.
Neither the opinion of Judge Lacombe, nor his order, nor
the petition for the removal, makes any reference to any
previous suit in the Federal court, as an alleged ground for
the removal. The respondents are bound by the record below.
They cannot ask this court to take judicial notice of papers
below that are not recited in the order.
Were. it otherwise, the courts would be liable to be misled
by garbled statements of the .contents of their records, not
verified by affidavit, nor by the certification of the clerk.
Thornton v. Carson, 7 Cranch, 596; Pennsylvania Co. v. Ben-

In re JAMES POLLITZ,
.206 U. S.

Argument for Respondents.

der, 148 U. S. 255; Rout v. Ninde, 118 Indiana, 123; S. C., 20
N. E. Rep. 704; Magee v. Hartzell, 7 Kan. App. 489; S. C.,
54 Pac. 129;..Dours.v. Cazentre, McGloin (La.), 251; Stockbridge v. Fahnestock, 87 Maryland, 127; S. C., 39 Atl. 95;
Scott v. Scott, 17 Maryland, 78; Cherry v. Baker, 17 Maryland,
75; Lyon v. Boilvin, 7 Illinois, 629.
Were the record of the suit, to which the respondents
referred, to be examined, it would be found to be entirely
different from that which is the subject'of the present review,
and that the present case in no respect could be deemed
ancillary to the same.
Even, however, were the suit below ancillary to one previously
brought, of which there is no suggestion in the pleading or the
record, still that Would constitute no ground for the removal.
In Gilmore v. Herrick, 93 Fed. Rep. 525, Judge Taft said:
"There is no language in any removal act which justifies the
removal of a cause from a state. court to a Federal court, on
the ground that it is ancillary to a suit in a Federal court."
To the same effect are Ray v. Pierce, 81 Fed. Rep. 881; Pitkin
V. Cowen, 91 Fed. Rep. 599; State Trust Co. v. Kansas City,
P. &. G. R. Co., 110 Fed. Rep. 10.
Mandamus is the proper remedy.
It would be a needless waste of time- of the court below to
reserve a decision upon this vital point of jurisdiction until
after a final hearing on the, merits. Ex parte Wisner, 203
U. S. 51.
Mr. Rush Taggart, with whom Mr.- Lawrence Greer was on
the brief; for respondents:
Mandamus is not the proper remedy.
•..Where the record discloses no lack of jurisdiction, and where
judicial acts have been performed by the inferior court, these
may not be reviewed in any, other manner than that properly
prescribed through writ of error or appeal. United States v.
Lawrence, 3 Dall. 42; Ex parte Bradstreet,7- Pet. 634' Ex parte
Bradley, 7 Wall. 364; Ins. Co. v. CoInstock, 16 Wall. 258;

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of. the Court.

206 U. S.

R. R. Co. v. Wiswall, 23 Wall. 507; Ex parte Loring, 94 U. S.
418; Virginia v. Rives,. 100'U. S. 313; In re Rice, 155 U. S. 396;.
In re Atlantic City R. R., 164 U. S. 693. Ex, parte Wisner
distinguished.
The proper and adequate remedy is by appeal after entry
of final judgment or decree.
*The writ of mandamus, cannot be used to perform the functions of an alpeal or writ of error, .and is only granted when
there is no other adequate remedy available. In this case
the petitioner has an adequate remedy .by way of an appeal
or writ of error.
The whole issue upon the motion to remand is, whether a
complete determination of a separable controversy can be
had "without the presence of the defendants other than the
Wabash Railroad Company, and this question has been judicially determined by the proper tribunal, to which it was
regularly- presented. To' issue a writ of mandamus to that
tribunal, directing the remand of the action, would constitute a
prematur review and reversal of this judicial determination
in a manner not permitted by law.
Whether or not the other defendants were indispensable
parties "; whether or not a separable controversy existed, are
judicial questions which have been decided by the proper
tribunal; whose decision thereon is final until reversed in the
regular manner.
The correctness or incorrectness of the judicial action taken
by the court below in deciding these questions cannot be reviewed by this court at this time and in the manner sought.
Thie petitioner must await the entry of a final judgment before
attempting to review by appeal the action of the&court below.
Graves v. Corbi, 132 U. S. 571; Mo. Pac.Ry. Co. v. Fitzgerald,
160-U. S. 556; The Removal Cases, 100 U. S. 457.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The suit 'was commenced- in the state court by a citizen

In re JAMES POLLITZ.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and resident of the city, county and State of New York against
a corporation, a citizen of the State of Ohio, and other defendants, many of whom were residents and citizens of the State
of New York, the value of the matter in dispute, exclusive of
interest and costs, exceeding the jurisdictional sum.
The defendant, the Wabash Railroad Company, a citizen
of Ohio, filed its petition and bond in proper form for the
removal of the suit into the United States Circuit Court for
the Southern District of New York, on the ground of,separable
controversy so far as it was concerned, and it was removed
*accordingly, A motion to remand was made and denied by
the Circuit Court, which held that the controversy was separa.ble, and that the other defendants were 'not indispensable
or necessary parties to the complete determination of that
separable controversy.
The issue on the mQtion to remand was whether such determination could be. had without the presence of defendants
other than the Wabash Railroad Company, and this was,
judicially determined by the Circuit 'Court, to which the decision was by law committed.
The application- to this court is for the issue of the writ of
mandamus directing the Circuit Court to reverse its decision,.
although in its nature a judicial act and within the scope of
its jurisdiction and discretion.
But mandamus cannot be issued to compel the court below
to decide a matter before'it in a particular way or to review
its judicial action had in the exercise of legitimate jurisdiction,
nor can the writ be used to perform the office of an appeal or
writ of error.
Where the court refuses to take jurisdiction of a case and
procced to judgment therein, when it is its duty to do so and
there is no other remedy, mandamus will lie unless the authority to issue it has been taken away by statute. In re
Grossmayer, Petitioner; 177 U. S. 48; In re Hohorst, Petitioner,
150 U. S. 653. And so where the court assumes to exercise
-jurisdiction: on removal when 6n the face of the record abso-

332

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of. the Court.

206 U. S.

lutly no jurisdiction has attached. Virginia v. Paul, 148
U. S. 107; Ex parte Wisner, 203 U. S. 449.
"In In re Hohorst, Petitioner, 150 U. S. 653, the bill was
filed in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of New. York against a corporation and certain other
defendants, and was dismissed. against the corporation for
want of jurisdiction. From that order complainant took an
appeal to this court, which was dismissed for want of juris,diction because the order, not disposing of the case as to all
the defendants, was not a final decree from which an appeal
would lie. 148 U. S. 262, Thereupon an 'application was
made to this court for leave to file a petition for a writ of
mandamus to the judges of the Circuit Court to take jurisdiction and to proceed against the company in the suit. Leave
was granted and a rule to show cause entered thereon, upon
the return to which the writ '-of mandamus was awarded."
'in re Atlantic City Railroad, 164 U. S.633.
In Ex parte Wisner, Wisner, a citizen of the State of Michigan,
commenced an action at law in the Circuit Court for the city
of St. Louis, State' of Missouri, against Beardsley, a citizen
of the State of Louisiana. After service of summons on Beards.ley, he filed his petition to remove the actioh from the state
court into the Circuit Court of the United' States for the Eastern
District of Missouri,' on the ground of diversity of citizenship,
with the proper bond, and an order of removal was made by
the state court, and the transcript of record was filed in the
Circuit Court. Wisner (who had had. no choice but to sue in
the state court) at once moved to remand the case, on the
ground -that the suit did not raise a controversy within the
jurisdiction of: the Circuit Court, and that as it appeared on
,the face of the.record that plaintiff was a citizen and resident
of Michigan, and defendant a citizen and resident of Louisiana,
the case was not one .within the original jurisdiction of 'the
Circuit Court, in accordance with the statute providing that
where' jurisdiction is founded only on the fact that tie action
is between citizens of different States, suit shall -be.-brought

GRAFTON v. UNITED STATES.
206 U. S.

Syllabus.

only in the district of the residence of either the plaintiff or
the defendant. The motion to remand was denied, and Wisner
applied to this court for a writ of mandamus which was subsequently awarded.
In the present case the removal was granted and sustained
on the ground that there was a controversy between the removing defendant and plaintiff, which could be fully determined as between them without the presence of the other defendants. That being so, the suit might have been brought.
originally in the Circuit Court against the railroad company
as sole defendant.
If the ruling of the Circuit Pourt was erroneous, as is contended, but which we do not intimate, it may be reviewed
after final decree on appeal or error. Missouri Pacific Railway
Company v. Fitzgerald, 160 U. S. 556, 582.
Rule discharged; petition dismissed.

HOMER E. GRAFTON, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR v. THE
UNITED STATES.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
No. 358.

Argued March 18, 19, 1907.-Decided May 27, 1907.

The prohibition of double jeopardy is applicable to all criminal prosecutions in the Philippine Islands.
A person is not put in second jeopardy unless his prior acquittal or conviction waf by a court having jurisdiction to try him for the offense

charged.
The judgment of a court-martial having jurisdiction to try an officer or
soldierfor a crime is entitled to the same finality and conclusiveness as
to the issues involved as the judgment of a civil court in cases within its
jurisdiction is entitled to.
General courts-martial may take cognizance, under the 62d article of war,
of all crimes, not capital, committed against public law by an officer or
soldier of the Army within the limits of the territory within which he is
serving; and, while this jurisdiction .is not exclusive, but only concur-

