OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

206 U. S.

the duties in question was without authority of law. Upon
this ground alone, and without considering any of the questions
discussed."in the opinion of the court, I concur in the judgment
of reversal.

BUCK v. BEACH, TREASURER OF TIPPECANOE
COUNTY, INDIANA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME. COURT OF THE STATE OF INDIANA.
No. 14. Argued March 22, 1907.-Decided May 27. 1907.
The old rule of mobilia sequuntur personam has been modified so that the
owner of personal property may be taxed on its account at its situs although not his residence, or domicil; but the mere presence of notes
within a State which is not the residenc6 or domicil of the owner does'
not bring the debts of which they are the written evidence within the
taxing jurisdiction of that State, and a tax thereon by that State is illegal
and void under the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
An attempt to escape'p'roper taxation in one State on the debt represented
by a note does not confer jurisdiction on another State, not the residence
or domicil of the owner, to tax the note on account of its mere presence
therein.
Mortgage notes made and payable in Ohio and secured by mortgages on
property in that State, the owner whereof resides in New York, are not
taxable in Indiana because they are therein for safe keeping.

against the plaintiff in error (who was defendant
below) was .recovered in a state Circuit Court in Indiana, which
was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State (164 Indiana,,
37), and the plaintiff in error brings the case here to review that
judgment. The predecessor of the defendant in error, being at
the time treasurer of Tippecanoe County, in the State of Indiana, brought this action in 1897 against the plaintiff in error
to subject funds.in his hands to the payment of taxes alleged to
be due from the estate of one Job M. Nash, deceased, which
taxes had been assessed in above county and State in 1894, after
the death of Nash, onpersonal property of the deceased that
JUDGMENT

BUCK v. BEACH.
206 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

had been omitted from the tax list in his lifetime, during the
years 1881 to 1893, both inclusive.
The point in dispute between the parties relates to the assessment for omitted property on what are called the "Ohio notes,"
the .plaintiff in error insisting that such assessment was illegal
as beyond the jurisdiction of the State to impose.
The material facts are not really in dispute. It appears that
Nash died in 1893, at that time, and for more than twenty
years prior thereto, a resident of the city and State of New York.
He left a will which was admitted to probate in Hamilton
County, Ohio, and his executors qualified there. They thereafter refused to pay the tax imposed upon the Ohio notes in
Indiana. By the terms of the will a trust was created, and part
of the personal property constituting such trust (more than
enough to pay thetaxes in dispute) was turned over to James
Buck, plaintiff in. error and one of the two trustees named in
the will. He resided in Lafayette, in the State of Indiana, and
the other trustee resided- in Cincinnati, in the State of Ohio.
From this fund, in the hands of Buck, the defendant in error
asked to have the taxes paid which had been assessed, as above
stated, and which he claimed were due the State. This was
refused, and this action was thereupon commenced.
A former action had been brought by the trustees for relief
by injunction against the predecessor of the defendant in error
to enjoin him from seizing upon or interfering with the trust
fund for the payment of the taxes in dispute, and in that action
the trustees had been unsuccessful. Buck v. Miller. 147 Indiana, 586, decided in 1896.
The amount assessed on the estate of decedent upon the
"Ohio notes" from 1884 to 1893, on account of omitted assessments during those years, aside from the penalties for nonpayment, was $36,357,71.
During the above-mentioned years, while the decedent was,
as stated, a resident of the State of New York, he had a large
sum of money invested in the States of Ohio and Indiana,
approximating $750,000. The money loaned by him in Ohio

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

206 U. S.

was evidenced by Ohio notes,. made by the borrowers, who were
residents of Ohio, the payment of the money borrowed being.
secured by mortgages on lands situated in Ohio. The moneys
loaned in Ohio were loaned through an agent of Mr. Nash,
residing in Cincinnati. The notes were dated and payable in
Cincinnati, to the order of Mr. Nash, but were not endorsed by
him, and "all renewals and.payments on account of them were
made to his agent in Cincinnati. All moneys paid upon or by
reason of these notes were deposited in a bank in Cincinnati to
the credit of Mr. Nash, and no part thereof was sent to Indiana.
The Cincinnati agent c6mmenTged loaning decedent's xIoney
about 1860, and, upon the removal of decedent to New York
in 1870, and until his death,, in 1893, the agent made investments on decedent's behalf in Ohio, collected the principal and
interest upon his mortgage loans and had general charge of his
financial interests in that State.
James Buck was the agent of decedent at Lafayette, in the
State: of Indiana, for many years preceding the death of Mr.
Nash. The Ohio notes were sent to him from Cincinnati by
the agent there, daring the years in question, together with the
mortgages securing the payment of the notes, and they were
kept in a safe at Lafayette, Indiana, by Mr. Buck, but no business 'was transacted in regard to them nor any use made of
them in Indiana, 'otherwise than' that a short time before the
interest on or principal of the notes became due they were sent
to the Ohio agent to'have the interest payments made to him
endorsed upon them, or to be delivered up if the principal were
paid.
Nothing else was done in Indiana in regard to the notes,
except that a few days prior to the first day of April in each year
(which is the day upon which assessments for taxes are, by law,
made in the State of Indiana) Mr. Buck sent the not -s and
mortgages to the Ohio agent, and a few days subsequeit to
that day in each year' the same were returned by the Chio
agent to Mr. Buck, who retained them in his possession,
When the Ohio notes and mortgages were sent from Cincin-

BUCK v. BEACH.
206 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

nati to Mr. Buck by the Ohio agent, Mr. Buck made a record of
their receipt in a book kept by him for that purpose, showing
the dates and amounts of the notes and when due, and whenever payment or renewal of said notes was reported by the
Ohio agent to the Indiana agent, he made entries of the facts
in the register kept by him.
Mr. Buck also had possession of the notes and mortgages
given to Mr. Nash for moneys loaned in the State of Indiana,
and such moneys were invested and reinvested in that State
during these years, and the taxes thereon were duly paid.
Mrs Buck transacted no business directly with the makers
of the Ohio notes or mortgages but, as stated, sent the notes
to the Ohio agent for any business to be done in regard to them.
During Mr. Buck's agency money was sometimes sent to him
at Lafayette from Cincinnati to be invested, which money was
placed on deposit in the bank in Indiana and loaned for Mr.
Nash. Such moneys have nothing to do with the "Ohio notes"
in issue in this a tion.
During these 3;qars, at least from 1886, Mr. Buck was authorized by virtue. of. a,power of attorney from Mr. Nash to satisfy
when due and when the money was paid all notes and mortgages, but so far' as.the Ohio notes and mortgages were concerned he never assumed to satisfy any of them or receive payment for the same.- That was all done by the Ohio agent at
Cincinnati.
Mr. W. H. H. Miller arid Mr. Byron W. Langdon for plaintiff
in error:
The presence of the Ohio notes in Indiana did not constitute
taxable property in that-State.
. The powers of taxation of a State are uncontrollable
except
as restrained by the provisions of the Federal Constitution.
McCullough v. State of Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 418, 428, 429.
These powers can only be exercised over persons, property
and business within the jurisdiction of the State. State Tax
on Foreign-HeldBonds, 15 Wall. 300, 319; Dewey v. Des Moines,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Pli.ntiff in Error.

.

206 U. S.

173 U. S. 193, 204; Louisville & J.Ferry Co. v. Kentucky, 188
U. S.385, 396, 397, 398.'.
The powers of taxation are solely vested in the law-making
department of the State. See. 1, Art. 10, Const. Indiana.
There must be statutory warrant for taxation. New Orleans
•v. Stempel, 175 U.. S.309, 312.
There was no statute of Indiana concerning the. taxation ofthe transfer of property by death or: otherwise; or, the taxing of
title papers or written instruments themselves, apart and distinguished from the property interests or rights to which they
related, or by which they wer&.-evidenced; or, on account of
the business of loaning, collecting, reloaning or investment of
*money in- the State.
A debt is not a corpus capable of a local position, but purely
a Jus incorporale, and contracts respecting personal property
and debts are now universally treated as haying ,no sitW or.
locality, and they follow the person of the owner in -point of
.ight, although the remedy on them must be according'to the
law of th6 place where they are sought to be enforced. Story
on Conflict of Laws, §§ 362, 399; Kirtland v. Hotchkiss, 100
U. S.491.
The obligations of the borrowers of Nash's money were.to
return it to him, and they were personal to. them, because noone else received the loans, and also on.account of. their express
promise.to pay..
These, promises or obligations being inseparable from the
*borrowers, they were- intangible and were where the borrowers'
were, and their permanent siti were at the domicil of the-borrowers in Ohio. The situs of the mortgaged lands was likewise,
..in Ohio, and, therefore not taxable in Indiana.
In case of a non-resident the money due him, in the taxing
State, is the only subject of taxation, and not-his paper evi-.
dence. Catlin V'.Hull, 21 Vermont, 152; Board v. Davenport,
40 Illinois, 197, 209; Goldgart v..People, 1061Ilinois, 25; In re
JefferSon, 35 Minnesota, 215; Fitchv. York County, 19 Nebraska,
50; Savings & Loan Society V.Multnomah County, 169 U. S. 422;'

BUCK v. BEACH.
206 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

New Orleans v. Stempel, 175 U. S..309; Bristol v. Washington
County, i77 U. S. 133.
Assuming that Nash and his debtors owning liroperty were
without the jurisdiction of Indiana, and that the physical
presence of the Ohio notes did not constitute taxable property
in that State, the taxes assessed on them were' without just
foundation and are illegal, and the State of Indiana would, by
enforcing the collection of them by its officers, deprive. the plaintiff in error of his trust property, without due process of law.
Mr. William 1?. Wood, with whom Mr. Cassius C. Hadley
and Mr. J. Frank Hanly were on the brief, for defendant in
error:
The State cannot be deprived of. its right to tax .property
within its jurisdiction by the owner thereof removing the prop-.
erty temporarily out of its jurisdiction for the purpose of
avoiding taxation thereon. Dundee Company v. School District, 19 Fed. Rep. 368; Savings Society v. Multnomah Co., 169
U. S. 421; Connecticut Co. v. Town of Monroe, 52 Atl. Rep.
(N. H.) 942; H. M. Loud & Sons Lumber Co. v. Elmer Township, 123 Michigar,.61; Shotwell v. Moore, 129 U. S. 596; Ogden,
Treas., v. Walker, 59 Indiana, 460; Senour v. Matchett, 140
Indiana, 640; Crowder v. Riggs, 123 Indiana, 160; Diamond
Match Co. v. Ontonagon, 188 U. S.91.
In determining what the law of a State is, this court will look
not only at' the state constitution and statutes, but at decisions
of its highest court giving construction to them, and the construction given the statute of a State by its highest court will
be adopted by this court. Wade v. Travis County 174 U. S. 508;
New Orleans v. Stempel, 175 U. S., 316; Stockard v. Morgan,
185 1iJ. S. 30; Williams v. Parker, 188 U. S. 504; Williams v.
Eggleston, 170 U. S. 311; Board of Liquidation v. Louisiana,
179 U. S. 63$; Yazoo & Mississippi Valley Railroad Co. v.
Adams, 181 U. S. 583; Mead v. Portland,200 U. S. 164;.Armour
Packing Co. v. Lacy, 200 U. S. 234, 236.
The General Assembly of Indiana has power to make notes,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

206 U. S.

mortgages, bonds an T other evidences of indebtedness' taxable.
The question as to the taxability of such property is therefore
one of will or intention aid not of power. Hart v. Smith, 159
Indiana, 185, 188, 193; Gallup v. Schmidt, 154 Indiana, 203;
Western &c. Co. v. Halliday, 110 Fed. Rep. 264; Pullman's &c.
(o. v. Commonwe.alth of Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18; Finch v.
County of York, 26 N. W. Rep. (Neb.) 590; Hutchinson v.
Board, 23 N. W. Rep. (Ia.) 250; Tappan v. Merchants' Bank,
19 Wallace, 490; Savings Society: v. Multnomah, Co., 169 U. S.
421; Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517.
Notes, bonds, mortgages and other evidences of indebtedness are ,' property" within the meaning of the Constitution,
and ought te be assessed for taxation.- In the construction of
the legislative scheme of taxation the court ought to impute to
the General Assembly an intent to obey the constitutional mandate, if its enactments fairly admit of such construction. Hart
v. Smith, 159 Indiana, 185.
It is not essential that both the owner and the thing assessed
should b6 within the jurisdiction: of the State. It is sufficient
if either is within such jurisdiction. Pullman's Co. v. Commonwealth, 141 U. S. 18; Goldgart v. People, 106 Illinois, 28; In re
Romaine Estate, 127 N., Y. 88; In re Whiting Estate, 150 N. Y.
29; in re Morgan Estate, 150 N. Y. 35; In re Houdayer Estate,
150 N. Y. 37.
The Ohio notes were notkept by plaintiff in error in Lafayette for clerical convenience. They were kept there permanently.. They had at no time any other permanent location.
They were kept there and held and controlled by Buck, as the
agent of Nash, under such circumstances as to give them a
taxable situs in Indiana: Acts 1891, p. 199, §3; Acts 1891, p.
199, § 4; Acts 1891, p. 201, § 11; Buck v. Miller, 147 Indiana,
589; Tousey v. Bell, 23 Indiana, 426; Schmidt v. Failey, 148
Indiana, 153; Powell v. City, 21 Indiana, 340; Rieman v. Shepard,. 27 Indiana, 289; Standard Oil Co. v. Combls, 96 Indiana,
1I83; Board v. StandardOil Co., 103 Indiana, 304..
The notes and mortgages, upon which the assessment in this

BUCK v. BEACH.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

case is based, had a "business situs" in the city of Lafayette
within the meaning of the law. Acts 1891, p. 199, § 3; Acts
1891, p. 199, § 4; Acts 1891, p. 201, § 11; Buck v. Miller, 147
Indiana, 589; Tousey v. Bell, 23 Indiana, 426; Schmidt v.
Failey, 148 Indiana, 153; Powell v. City, 21 Indiana, 340; Rieman v. Shepard, 27 Indiana, 289; Standard Oil Co. v. Combs,

96 Indiana, 183; Board v. Standard Oil Co., 103 Indiana, 304;
Western &c. Co. v. Halliday, i10 Fed. Rep. 263.
Bank bills, municipal bonds, prormfissory notes and real estate
mortgages have such a concrete form that they are subject to
taxation where found, irrespective of the domicil of the owner.
If such evidences of indebtedness are kept for an indefinite
period, and are given a permanent location within the limits
of the State, they are subject to taxation. Buck v. Miller, 147
Indiana, 586; Tousey v. Bell, 23 Indiana, 426; Western: &c. Co.
v. Halliday, 110 Fed. Rep. 264; Black Hawk v. Dorris,90 N. W.
Rep. (Ia.) 90; Arosin v. London Co., 83 N. W. Rep. (Minn.)
340; People v. Board, 48 N. Y. 390; People ex rel. v. Smith, 88
N. Y. 581; People v. Gaus, 61 N. E. Rep. (N. Y.) 989; Comptoir v. Board, 27 So. Rep. (La.) 805.
No question in the case at bar, apart from the specific constitutional-objection that the assessment of the property in issue
contravenes §1, Art. '14, of the Federal 'Constitution, is subject to review in this court. Blackstone v. Miller, 188 U. S. 207.
The assessment of the property in issue in this cause does not
contravene § 1, Art. 14, of the Federal Constitution. Acts
1891, p. 199, § 4; § 1, Art. 14, U. S. Const.; Pullman &c. Co.
v. Commonwealth, 141 U. S. 18; New Orleans v. Stempel, 175
U. S. 309; Savings Society v. Multnomah Co., 169 U. S. 421;
Comptoir &c. Co. v. Board, 27 So. Rep. 805.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The only question involved here is in regard to the taxability
of the Ohio notes in the State of Indiana.
The plaintiff in error asserts that the simple physical presence

--400.

"'400OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
-Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

of the Ohio notes in Indiana- payable to and not endorsed by
the decedent, did not. constitute -taxable property there,..
because such notes were given and were payable and were paid
in Ohio by residents of Ohio, and to a non-resident of Indiana,
and for.. loans made in Ohio, the capital represented .by -such
notes hiever having been used in business in Indiana, and he.
insists that a 'tax upon such capital or upon the notes themselves as representing that capital is an illegal tax, .and that
to take property in payment of',such gn illegal tax is to take
without due process, of law and constitutes. a violation of
it.
the Foirteenth Amendment.
If the, facts in this 'case constituted the debts evidenced by
the Ohio notes property in the jurisdiction of the State of
Indiana at the time when such taxes were imposed, then the
tax was valid, if there. were statutory -authority of that State
for the same. The state court Has held that there was such
authority, 'Buck v. Miller, 147 Indiana, . 586; Buck v. Beach,
.1.64 Indiana, 37, being the. case at bar, and that construction
•of. the statute concludes this court. Delaware &c. Co. v.
Pennsylvania' 198 ,U, S. 341, 352.
The sole question then for this court is whether the mere
presence of the notes. in Indiana .constituted the debts- of which
the notes were the written '.evidence, property within :the
juiisdiction of -hat State, so .that' such d~bts could be therein
taxed..
Generally, property, in order to be the subject of taxation
must be within the jurisdiction of the power-assuming to tax.
State Tax on Foreign-heldBonds, 15 Wall. 300; Erie RailroadV.
Pennsylvania, 153 U. S. 628, 646; Savings Society v. Multnomah County, 169 U. S.421,. 427; Loiisvitle &c. v. Kentucky,
385; 'Deldwate.&c. v."-Pennslyvania, 198 U' S. 341;
188 ILS.
Union Transit Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. -S. 194; Metropolitan
Ins, Co. v. New Orleans,' 205 U. S.395.
If., regard to tangible property the old rule was 'mobilia
sequunter personam, by which personal property was supposed
to follow the person of its owner, and-to be subject to the'law

BUCK5 v. BEACH.
206 U. S.

Opinioa of the Court.

of the owner's domicil. For the purpose of taxation, however,
it has long been held-thatpersonal property ny be separated
from its owner, and he may.be taxed on its.accunt at the place
where the property is, although it is not the place of his own
domicil, and even if he is not a citizen or resident of the State
which imposes the tax. Pullman Palace Car Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18, 22; Tappan v. Merchants' National Bank,
19 Wall. 490; People ex rel. Hoyt v. The Commissioner of Taxes,
23 N. Y. 224, 240. The same rule applies to intangible property.
Generally speaking,, intangible property in the nature of a
debt may be regarded, for the purposes of taxation, as situated
at the domicil of the -creditot and within the jurisdiction of
the State where he has such domicil. It is. property within that
State. Thus it has been held that a debt owned by a citizen
of one State against a- citizen of another State and evidenced
by the bond of the debtor, secured by a deed of trust or mortgage upon real estate situated in the State where the debtor
resides, is properly taxed by the State of the residence of the,
creditor, if the statute of that State so provides, and such tax
violates no provision of -the Federal Constitution. Kirtland v.
Hotchkiss, 100 U. S.491, 498.
Rejecting the fiction of law in regard to the situs of personal
property, including therein -choses in action, the courts of
Indiana have asserted jurisdiction by reason of the statute of
that State over these Ohio notes for the purpose of taxation
in Indiana, founded upon the simple fact that such notes were
placed in the latter State by the Ohio agent of th6 decedent
under the circumstances, above set forth. The Supreme Court
of Indiana refused to accept the testimony of the agents that
the Ohio- notes were sent to Lafayette merely for safe keeping,
and for clerical convenience, and shid that "the court below
was authorized to make the opposite deduction from the.
uniform course 0f the business in respect to the keeping of
said notes and mortgages and from the evidence that decedent
gave the direction which established the practice that was
pursued in that particular. More than that, the evidence
VOL. ccvi--26

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

clearly warranted the conclusion that Buck was vested with
a control of said notes and securities for the purposes of enabling
decedent to escape taxation in Ohio. We must, therefore,
conclude, in support of the general finding, that the court
below found that in the conducting of the business of the Ohio
agency the decedent separated from said business the possession
of said notes and mortgages and vested the right to such
possession in said Buck. There was no return for taxation of
said notes, or of the investments represented by them, either
in Ohio or in New York during the lifetime of the decedent."
Taking this to be a finding of fact by the Supreme Court of
the State, it is plain that the action of the decedent in sending
the Ohio notes into the State of Indiana for the purpose stated
(whether successful or not), was improper and unjustifiable.
The record does show; however, that the executors subsequently paid the Ohio authorities over $40,000 for taxes on
the moneys invested in Ohio.
But an attempt to escape proper taxation in Ohio does not
confer jurisdiction to tax property asserted to be in Indiana,
which really lies outsioe and beyond the jurisdiction of that
State. Jurisdiction of the State of Indiana to tax is not conferred or strengthened by reason of the motive which may
have prompted the decedent to send into the State of Indiana
these evidences of debts owing him by residents of Ohio.
The question still remains, was there any property within
the jurisdiction of the State of Indiana; so as to permit that
State to tax it, simply because of the presence of the Ohio
notes in that State? It was not the value of the paper as a
tangible. thing, on which these promises to pay the debts
existing in Ohio were written, that was taxed by that State.
The property really taxed was the debt itself, as each -eparate
note was taxed at the full amount of the debt named therein
or due thereon. And jurisdiction over these debts for the purpose of taxation was asserted and exercised solely by reason
of the physical presence in Indiana of the notes themselves,

BUCK v. BEACH.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

although they were only written evidence of the existence
of the debts which were in fact thereby taxed.
A distinction has been sometimes taken between bonds and
other specialty debts belonging to the deceased, on the one
hand, and simple contract debts on the other, for the purpose
of probate jurisdiction, and the probate' court, where the bonds
are found, has been held to have jurisdiction to grant probate,
while in the other class of debts (including promissory notes)
jurisdiction has attached to the probate court where the debtor
resided at the death of the creditor. 1,Williams on Executors,
6th Am. from 7th English ed., bottom paging288, 290, note [h];
Wyman v. Halstead Adm'r, 109 U. S.654. See also Beers v.
Shannon, 73 N. Y. 292, 299; Owen v. Miller, 10 Ohio St.
136.
Under such rule, the debts here in question were not property
within the State of Indiana, nor were the. promissory notes
themselves, which were only evidence of such debts. The
rule giving jurisdiction where the, specialty may be found,
has no application to a promissory note. Assuming such a
rule, the case here is not covered by it.
Question's of the validity of state taxation with reference
to the Federal 'Constitution have become quite frequent in
this court within the last few years. The case of Metropolitan
Life Insurance Company v.-The City of New Orleans, 205 U. S.
395, is the latest. The question there was in relation to the
validity of certain taxes assessed in the city of New Orleans
against the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company by reason of
the company doing business in lending money to the holders
of its policies in New .Orleans. The domicil of the company
was in the city of New York, and the evidences of the credits,
in the form of notes, were kept most of the time in New York,
being sent to New.Orleanswhen due. The tax was, under the
laws of the State of Louisiana, levied on the "credits, money
loaned, bills receivable," etc., of the plaintiff in error and its
amount was ascertained by computing the sum of the face
value of all the notes held by the company inNew Orleans

-

-. OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of theCourt.

206 U. S.

at the time of the assessment. The 4ssessment was made
under an act which provided that "bills receivable, obligations,
or credits arising from the business.done in this State," shall
be assessable at the business domicil of. the non-resident,
the assessment being made in such a way under the statute
as would "represent in their aggregate a fair average on the
capital,,both cash and credits, employed in the business of
the party or parties to be assessed." The tax was sustained
because, as is stated in the opinion of the court, which was
delivered by Mr. Justice Moody, "the insurance company
chose to enter into the business of lending money within the
State of Louisiana, and employed a local agent to conduct
that business. It was,conducted under the laws of the State.
The State undertook to tax the capital employed in the business precisely as it taxed the capital of its own citizens in
like situation. For the purpose of arriving at the amount of
capital actually employed, it caused the credits arising out of
the business to be assessed. We think the State had the power
to do this, and that the foreigner doing business cannot escape
taxation upon his capital by removing temporarily from the
State evidences, of credits in the form of notes. Under such
circumstances, they have a taxable, situs, in the State of their
origin." The temporary absence of the notes, given for the
loans, from the State (being in'New York, the domicil of
the company) except when they became due, was regarded
as unimportant. The law, it was said, regarded the place of
thdir origin as their true home, to which they would return
to be paid, and their temporary absence, however long continued, was left out of account.
The prior cases of New Orleans y. Stempel, 175 U. S. 309,
and Board of Assessors v. Comptoir National, 191 U. S. 388,
were also cited. In the first there was a tax on credits, evidenced by notes (secured by mortgages on real estate in New
Orleans) which the owner a non-resident, who hjd,inherited
them, left in Louisiana in the possession of an agent, who
collected the principal and interest as they became due. The

BUCK v. BEACH.
206 U.S.

405

Opinion of the Court.

capital of the owner was thus invested in the State, and was
thereby subject to taxation there, and the notes did not alter
the nature of the, debt, but were merely evidence of it. In
the latter case a foreign banking company did business in
New Orleans, and through an agent lent money which was
evidenced by checks drawn upon the agent, treated as overdrafts and secured by collateral, the checks and collateral.
remaining in the hands of the agent until the transactions
were closed. The credits thus evidenced were held taxable
in Louisiana. The corporation was held to be doing business
and had capital employed in the city of New Orleans, to the
extent of the assessment made upon it therein.
In Bristol v. Washington County, 177 U. 'S. 133, the assessment was upheld because it appeared that the person assessed
.was doing business in Minnesota through an agent, in lending
money in that State, which was secured by mortgages on real
property therein. The amount of money thus invested in
that State was held to be properly taxable therein.
In Savings & Loan Society v. Multnomah County, 169 U. S.
421, the assessment was upon the real estate mortgaged,
the interest of. the mortgagee therein being taxed to him and
the rest to the mortgagor,, and it was held by this court that
the fact that the mortgage was owned by a citizen of another
State, and in his possession outside of the State .of Oregon,
where the real estate was situated, did not violate the Fourteenth Amendment. It was stated that "The State may
tax real estate mortgaged, as '-it may all other property within
its jurisdiction, at its full value. It. may do this,'either by
taxing the whole o the mortgagor, or by taxing .to the-mortgagee the interest therein represented by the mortgage, and
to the mortgagor the remaining interest in the land. And it.
may, for the purposes of taxation, either treat the mortgage
debt as personal projerty, to be taxed like other choses in
action, to the creditor at his domicil; or treat the mortgagee's
interest in the land as real estate, to be taxed to- him, like
other real property at its situs." Under the statute of Oregon

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

the assessment was made against the mortgagee upon his
interest in the land as real estate.
There are no cases in this court where an assessment such
as the one before us has been involved. We have not had a
case where neither the party assessed nor the debtor was a
resident of or present in the State where the tax was imposed,
and where no business was done therein by the owner of the
notes or his agent relating in any way to the capital evidenced
by the notes assessed for taxation. We cannot assent to the
doctrine that the mere presence of evidences of debt, such as
these notes, under the circumstances already stated, amounts
to the presence of property within the State for taxation.
That promissory notes may be the subject of larceny, as stated
in 48 N. Y. cited below, does not make the debts evidenced
by them, property liable to taxation within the State where
there is no other fact than the presence of the notes upon
which to base the claim.
In People v. The Board of Trustees &c,, 48 N. Y. 390, itwas
held that money due upon a contract for the sale of land was
personal property, and that where. such contract belonging
to a non-resident was, in the hands of a resident agent, it
might, for the purposes of municipal taxation, be assessed
to the agent and taxed. In the opinion Judge Earl said:
"The debts due upon these contracts are personal estate, the
same as if they were due upon notes or bonds; and such personal estate may be said to exist where the obligations for
payment are held." The contracts spoken of in that case were
contracts for the sale of land by a non-resident owner to
persons within the county where the lands were situated.
The debtors resided within the State, and the agent of the
non-resident for the sale of the land resided in the State and
had possession of the contracts. A different case as to its facts
from the one before us.
In People v. Smith, 88 N. Y. 576, jurisdiction to tax in
New York was denied under the statute of that State, because
the personal estate was not within the State, although the

BUCK v. BEACH.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

same principle, page 581 as contained in 48 N. Y., supra, was
asserted.
If payment of these notes had to be enforced it would not
be to the courts of Indiana that the owner would resort.
He would have to go to Ohio to find the debtor as well as the
lands mortgaged as security for the payment of the notes. It
is true that if the notes were stolen while in Indiana, and they
were therein a subject of larceny, the Indiana courts would
have to be resorted to for the punishment of the thieves.
That would be in vindication of the general criminal justice
of the State. This consideration, however, is not near enough
to the question involved to cause us to change our views of
the law in regard to the taxation of property, and make that
property within the State, which we think is clearly outside it.
Although public securities, consisting of state bomids and
bonds of municipal bodies, and circulating notes of banking
institutions have sometimes been treated as property in the
place where they were found, though removed from the domicil of the owner, State Tax on Foreign-held-Bonds, 15 Wall.
300, 324, it has not been held in this court that simple contract
debts, though evidenced by promissory notes, can under the
facts herein stated be treated as property and taxed in the
State where the notes may be found.
As is said in the above cited case at page 320: "All the
property there can be in the nature of things in debts of corporations, belongs to the creditors, to whom they are payable, and follows their domicil, wherever that may be. Their
debts can have no locality separate from the parties to whom
they are due. This principle might be stated in many different
ways, and supported by citations from. numerous adjudications, but no number of authorities, and no forms of expressions
could add anything to its obvious truth, which is recognized
upon its simple statement."
The cases cited in Metropolitan Insurance Co. case, supra,
show that this rule is enlarged to the extent of holding that
capital, evidenced by written instruments, invested in a

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

State may be taxel by the authorities of the State, although
their owner is a non-resident and such evidences of debt are
temporarily outside of the State when the assessment is made.
Although the language of the opinion in the case of State Tax
on Foreign-held Bonds, supra, has been somewhat restricted
o far as regards the character of the interest of the mortgagee
in the land mortgaged, Savings &c. Society' v. Multnomah
County, 169 U.. S. 421, 428, the principle upon which the case
itself was decided has not been otherwise shaken by the later
cases. New Orleans v. Stempel, 175 U. S. 309, 319, 320; Blackstone v. Miller, 188 U. S.189, 206. In the Stempel case, supra,
the notes, as we have said, represented the capital of the owner
invested in the State, and the capital was taxed, although
the owner was a non-resident.
Cases arising under collateral inheritance tax or succession
tax-acts ha~e been cited as affording foundation for the right
.to tax as herein asserted. The foundation upon which such
acts rest is different from that which exists where the assessment is levied upon property. The succession or inheritance
tax is not a tax on property, as has been frequently held by
this court, Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41, and Blackstone v.
Miller, 188 U. S. 189, and therefore the decisions arising under
such inheritance tax cases are not in point.
Our decision in this case has no tendency to aid the owner
of taxable property in any effort to avoid or evade proper
and legitimate taxation. The presence of the notes in Indiana.
formed no bar to the right, if it otherwise existed, of taxing
the debts, evidenced by the notes, in Ohio. It does,' however,
tend to prevent, the taxation in one State of property in the
shape of debts not existing there and which if so taxed would
make double taxation almost sure, which is certainly not
to be desired and ought, wherever possible, to be prevented.
For the reason that as the assessment in this case was made
upon property which was never within the jurisdiction of the
State of Indiana the State had no power to tax it, and the

BUCK v. BEACH.
206 U. S.

DAY, J., dissenting.

enforcement of such a tax would be the taking of property
without due process of law.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Indiana is reversed
and the case remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with the opinion of this court.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE DAY,

dissenting:

I am unable to concur in the opinion and judgment of the
court in this case and believe that its importance and farreaching effect warrant a statement of the grounds upon which
I differ.
Before stating the view which it seems to me should be
controlling I believe that the statement of facts, as outlined
by the learned justice speaking for the court, should be somewhat amplified with a view to a more complete showing of
the case.
The office in Lafayette, Indiana, was the office, of Nash,
for which he paid the rent. The safes in which the notes were
kept in this office were the safes of Nash, and the power of
attorney under which the agent held the "Ohio notes" not
only authorized him to enter satisfaction of them when paid,
but gave him complete control and dominion over them with
power of sale. And while it does not clearly appear that the
proceeds of the notes in question were reinvested by the agent
in Indiana, it does appear that after 1886 large sums of money
were sent from Cincinnati to Lafayette and were invested
by Nash's agent .in Indiana. Furthermore, in the opinion it
is said that the executors, subsequently to the death of Nash,
paid over $40,000 of taxes on money invested in Ohio. It
does appear that after the death of Nash, under the Ohio
law the auditor of Hamilton County instituted a proceeding
for the collection of five years (of the thirteen here involved)
of back taxes upon some of the notes representing the Ohio
investments, and rather than litigate, a settlement was made

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
DAY, J., dissenting.

206 U. S.

by the executors for this five years' claim in the sum of $40,000.
Whether that was for the notes here in question the record
does not disolose. As the Ohio agent testified, only a part of
the Ohio notes were sent to Indiana, and others in large amounts
were kept in Ohio. We know of 'no statute in Ohio which
would tax the notes permanently kept in Indiana, and none
is pointed out. The Supreme Court of Indiana in this case
reached the conclusion that these particular notes were not
taxable in Ohio. Of course the settlement of the claim could
not affect the legal proposition here involved, but for accuracy of statement it must not be regarded that equitably
the claim for taxes upon these notes has been satisfied. On
the contrary, this record discloses that by the scheme adopted
more than three-quarters of a million of dollars in capital invested in notes and mortgages successfully evaded taxes
during Nash's lifetime in New York, where he was domiciled,
and in Ohio and Indiana, where his agents were loaning his
money for him and where his notes and mortgages, the results of such loans, were held for him.
Accepting the decision of the Supreme Court of the State
that a statute of the State has undertaken to tax these notes,
it is now held that the Constitution of the United States prevents such taxation of notes and mortgages held under the
protection and within the power of the State by the agent
of a non-resident owner, although such agent holds the securities in an office belonging to the owner, in a safe provided by
him, with a power of attorney which gives him full dominion over them, and for the convenience of the owner keeps
a book in which transactions concerning them are recorded
at tle instance of the owner, and sends them out for collection.
These notes were sent beyond the borders of the State of
Indiana only for collection, or for the few days when they
were supposed to be liable for taxation, and, when such danger
was thought to be past, returned to the agent in Indiana.
I agree that a debt intangible in form cannot acquire a
,*tus for the purpose of taxation, but I submit that when a

BUCK v. BEACH.
206 U. S.

DAY,

J., dissenting.

debt takes the shape of note and mortgage it may, if the State,
in the exercise of its taxing power so wills, acquire a situs
separate from 'the domicil of the owner under the circumstances shown in this case. I concede that the precise point
here involved has not been decided in previous cases in this
court, but in my view the principles declared in this court
were followed in the Supreme Court of 'Indiana and require
the affirmance of its judgment.
This court in a series of cases has held that notes, bonds
and mortgages may acquire a situs at the place where they
are held. Some of the cases are: New Orleans v. Stempel,
175 U. S. 309; Bristol v. Washington County, 177 U. S. 133;
Blackstone v. Miller, 188 U. S. 189; Board of Assessors v.
Comptoir National, 191 U. S. 388, 403; Carstairs v. Cochran,
193 U. S. 10; Scottish Union & 'Nat. Ins. Co. v. Bowland,
196 U. S. 611.
It would unnecessarily extend this dissent to analyze these
cases. Brief reference to some of them, in my judgment, shows
that 'the principles therein declared, when extended to this.
case, would warrant the State, if it so chose in exerting its
taxing power, to reach notes and mortgages. held within its
jurisdiction under the circumstances which we have detailed.
In New Orleans v. Stempel, 175 U. S. 309, a tax on credits
evidenced by notes and secured by mortgages was'upheld,
where the owner left. them. in Louisiana in the possession of
an agent who collected the same as they fell due.,- There was
no'fact of investment and reinvestment of capital in the case,
and the court, speaking through Mr. Justice Brewer, said:
• "This matter of situs may be regarded in another aspect.
In the absence of statute, bills and notes are treated as choses
in action and are not subject to levy and sale on execution,
but by the statutes of many States they are made so subject
to seiiure and sale as any tangible personal property. 1 Freeman on Executions, § 112; 4 Am. and Eng. Enc. of Law, 2d ed.,
282; 11 Am. and Eng. Enc. of Law, 2d ed., 623. Among the
States referred to in these authorities as having statutes war-

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906..
DAY, J.,. dissenting.

206 U. S.

ranting such levy and sale are California, Indiana, Kentucky,
New York, Tennessee, Iowa, and Louisiana. Brown v. Anderson, 4 Martin (N. S.), 416, affirmed the rightfulness of such a levy
and sale. In Fluker v. Bullard, 2 La. Ann. 338, it was held
that if a note was not taken into the actual possession of the
sheriff a sale by him on an execution conveyed no title on the
purchaser, the court saying: 'In the case of Simpson v. Allain,
.it was held that, in order to make a valid seizure of tangible
property, it is necessary that the sheriff should take the property levied upon into actual'possession.' 7 Rob. 504. In the
case of Gobeau v. New Orleans & Nashville Railroad Company
the same doctrine is still more distinctly announced. The
court there says: 'From all the different provisions of our
laws above referred to, can it be controverted that, in order
to have them carried into effect, the sheriff must necessarily
take the property seized into his possession? This is the essence
of the- seizure. It cannot exist without such possession.'
6 Rob. 348. It is clear, under these authorities, that the sheriff
effected no seizure of the note in controversy, and consequently
his subsequent adjudication of it conferred no title on Bailey.
"The same doctrine was reaffirmed in Stocto v. Stanbrough,
3 La. Ann. 390. Now if property can have such a situs within
the State as to be subject to seizure and sale on execution,
it would seem to follow that the State has power to establish
a like situs within the State for: the purpo)pes of taxation.
It has also been held that a note may be made the subject
of seizure and delivery in a replevin suit. Graft v. Shannon,
7 Iowa, 508; Smith v. Eals, 81 Iowa, 235; Pritchardy. Norwood, 155 Massachusetts, 539.
"It is well settled that bank bills and municipal bonds are
in such a concrete tangible form that they are subject to taxation where found, irrespective of the domicil of the owner,
are subject to levy and sale on execution and to seizure and
delivery upon replevin; and, yet, they ire but promises to
pay, evidences of existing indebtedness. Notes and mortgages are of the same nature; and, while they may not have be-

BUCK v. BEACH.,
206 U. S.

DAY, J., dissenting.

come so generally recognized as tangible personal property, yet
they have such a concrete form that we see no reason why a State
may not declare that, if found within its limits, they shall be
subject to taxation."
In commenting on this case and State Assessors v. Comptoire
National &c., 191 U. S. 388, Mr. Justice Moody, speaking
for the court in the late case of Metropolitan Life Ins. Co. v.
New Orleans, 205 U. S. 395, said: "In both of these cases the
written evidences of the credits were continuously present in
the State, and their presence was clearly the dominant factor
in the decisions."
In Blackstone v. Miller, 188 U. S. 206, Mr. Justice Holmes,
speaking for the court, said:
"There is no conflict between our views and the point decided in the case reported under the name of State Tax on
Foreign-heldBonds, 15 Wall. 300; 21 L. ed. 179. The taxation
in that case was on the interest on bonds held out of the State.
Bonds and negotiable instruments are more than merely evidences of debt. The debt is inseparable from the paper which
declares and constitutes it by a tradition which comes down
from more archaic conditions. 177 Massachusetts, 335, 337."
To the consideration of the subject in the opinicns of the
learned justices just quoted, it may be added that bills and
notes are the subject of conversion in trover, and the measure
of damages is the collectible value of the obligation. Mercer v.
Jones, 3 Camp. 477; 2 Ames on Bills and Notes, p. 693, and
numerous cases there cited. Bills and notes may be the subject of donatio causa mortis, even though payable to order
and unendorsed. 2 Ames' Bills and Notes, 699-701. They
are held to be governed by the designation of "goods and
chattels" in the statute of frauds and other statutes. 2 Ames'
Bills and Notes, 706.
Bills and notes have been held to be ".goods, wares and
merchandise" within the meaning of the statute of frauds.
Baldwin v. Williams, 3 Met. 365; Somerby v. Buntin, 118
Massachusetts,. 279.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
DAY, J., dissenting.

206 U. S.

In view of this recognition of the character of bills and notes
as tangible property, it seems to me inaccurate to say that
they are mere evidences of debt. They are tangible things,
capable of delivery; passing from hand to hand, and for many
purposes may be regarded as of the value of the debt which
they evidence.
It is elementary that the power of the States as to matters
of taxation is very broad, and subject only in the limitation
of its exercise to the constitution of the State and the
Nation.
rt seems to me that a State, in pursuance of its taxing
policy, may give a situs to such evidences of debt held within
its jurisdiction as have taken the tangible form of bonds, notes
and mortgages.
It is said to deny this power to the States, under the circumstances of this case, will tend to prevent double taxationa thing much to be desired. This case seems to me an apt
illustration of the contrary view, by denying the power to
Indiana to tax these notes under the circumstances shown,
the scheme of the owner to avoid any tax upon them is made
effectual, and, except for the recovery after his death for a
small part of the taxes actually due, this vast sum of money
escapes taxation altogether. I think that the powers of taxation here invoked by the State of Indiana ought not to be
denied, and if the practical effect can be given any weight in
deciding legal rights, to me it seems evident that such denial
will work immunity from just taxation of property represented
in promissory notes and mortgages sent beyond the jurisdiction
of the State where the owner is domiciled and held by agents
in distant States within the protection of their laws, for the
sole purpose of avoiding contribution to the public treasury.
As Iunderstand the opinion, municipal bonds, or other such
securities held as these are, would be legitimately subject
to taxation. They are but promises to pay in a concrete form
of the same character as notes and mortgages. In my opinion
there is no constitutional objection to their localization -for

SECURITY WAREHOUSING CO. v. HAND.
206 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

taxation by the law of the State when the owner has chosen
to give them a situs there as in this case.
Without further extending these views,. I am constrained
to dissent from the opinion and judgment of the court in this
case.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER

concurs in this dissent.

SECURITY WAREHOUSING COMPANY v. HAND.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 229. Argued March 7,-8, 1907.-Decided May 27, 1907.
The general law of pledge requires possession and it cannot exist without it,
and this is the law in Wisconsin.
Where there is no delivery or-change of possession receipts issued by a warehouse company are not entitled to the status of negotiable instruments,
the transfer of. which, operates as a delivery of the property mentioned
.therein. Union Trust Co. v. Wi4wn, 198 U. S. 530, distinguished.
Although the assignee or trustee in bankruptcy stands in the shoes of the.bankrupt, and property in his hands unless otherwise provided in the bank-.
rupt act is subject to all the equities impressed upon it in the hands of the
bankrupt, on the facts in this case and the law of the State there was no
valid pledge of, and no equitable lien on the merchandise in favor of the
holders of warehouse receipts, which take precedence of the title of the
trustee.

THE above-named appellants have appealed from a judgment
of the.Circuit Court of Appeals of the Seventh Circuit, affirming
a decree of the United States District Court for the Eastern
District of Wisconsin dismissing certain petitions of the
appellants for want of equity. 143 Fed. Rep. 32.
Certain creditors filed a petition in bankruptcy October 5,
1903, against the Racine Knitting Company, a company en-

