CASES IN THE SUPREME COURW"

It was oiny those nut deemed fit for the manufacture ot
1827
salt, with the reserN d lands adjoining them, that were de-Devereaux clared vacant land, subject to be appropriated by location
and tarry We can discover no other law of North CaroMarr.
lina, or of Tptn.',sec, which subjects the reservation about
any of the fick., emed fit for manufacturing salt, to appropriation by el', I and survey, as vacant.land.
We, therefore, accord in opinion with the Circuit Court.
that the grant to Patrick H. Darby is void.
The Circuit Court, as appears by the, bill of exceptions.
permitted evidence to be given, for the purpose of showing
the Court had no jurisdiction, and instructed the jury, that
if they believed the facts which this evidence conduced to
prove, the Court had no jurisdiction over the cause. This
was certainly irregular and improper. The jury were
sworn to try the general issue, and the facts involved in it.
not to try facts involved in a question of jurisdiction.
The instructions of the Court were calculated to lead
and divert the attention of the jury, from the subjects of inquiry properly before them, to others in no way connected
with the issue. For this error, the judgment of the Circuit
Court mpst be reversed, the cause remanded to the Circuit
Court, with directions to set aside the verdict, and for new
proceedings to be had therein, not inconsistent with the.
judgment of this Court.

[PRACTICE.]
DEVEREAUX againstMARR.
This Court cannot take jurisdiction o a question, on which the opi.
nions of the judges of the. Circuit Court are opposed, where the
division of opinions arises upon some proceeding subsequent to the
decision of the cause in that Court.

IN this case, thejudges of the Circuit Court of West Tennessee, after a judgment had been rendered in that Court.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

213

divided in opinion upon the question as to the amount of 1827.
the security bond, to be given by the party applying for a \
writ of error, whether the amount of the bond ought to be Ogden
V.
sufficient to cover the whole debt, or only for the costs and Saundeincreased damages on the party failing to prosecute his writ
of error with effect. Whereupon the division of opinions
was certified to this Court, under the 6th section of the
Judiciary Act of the 29th April, 1802, ch. 291.
The cause was argued by Mr. Eaton for the plaintiff, and Jan. 17tIh.
by Mr. White for the defendant.
THIs CouRT was of opinion, that it had nojurisdiction of
the question on which the opinions of the judges of -the
Circuit Court were opposed, the division of opinions having
trisen after the decision of the cause in that Court.
Certificate accordingly

LCO NSTITUIONAL LA'..j
OGDEN,

Plaintiff in Error, against SAUNDERs, Defendant n
Error.

The power of Congress "to establish uniform laws on tli. subject ot
bankruptcies throughout the United States." does not exclude,the
right of the States to legislate on the same subject, except when
thepower is actually exercised by Congress, and lie S.:te 1,ws

conflict with those of Congress.
A bankrupt or insolvent las of any State, which discharges both th.
person of the debtor, and his future acquisitions of property, Is not
-' a law impairing the obligation of contracts," so far as iespects
debts contracted subsequent to the passage of such law.
\
But a certificate of discharge, under such a law, cannot be pleaded
in bar of an action brought by a citizen of another State, in the
Courts of the lnited States, or of any other State than that
where the discharge was obtained.

ERROR to the Distnct Court of Lo.imana.
This wai an action tf assumpsit, brougi, in the Court be-

