UP THlE UNITED STATras.

515

1827.
we thitn the defendant below has nothing to complain of.
It will*be discovered, by rqferenceto dates,thatthe payments
here made preceded the institution of the suit, and, although Drummond
made by the sureties, they were made severally, for any Prestman.
thing that appears to the contrary from the verdict. Technically, then, the judgment to be entered would have been
ajudgment for the penalty of the bond, and, in applying
the.partial payment, the Court would have been governed
by those principles which have been transferred in practice
from the Courts of equity to the Courts of law, in deciding
on what terms a party shall be released from the penalty of
his bond. These always are, on payment of principal, interest, and costs. And it can constitute no objection to the
application of this principle to the -case of these obligors,
that no interest was allowed them durmg the short interval
between the payment and the suing out of .the writ, since
the breaches were incurred long before, and interest for
thesamepernod is refused to the bank.
Judgment affirmed, with six percecn. interesi.

[GUARATm.--EvxDZNcXn.]
Ho.ND, surviving partner of CHAIRLES DavURRic HARD D.
MOND, against the Executors of GEORGE PRESTMAN.

The following letter of guarantie,
",Baltimore, 17th No'v. 1805.
CAPT. CHASLEs DRUMMOND,

"Dear Sir:-My son William having mentioned to me,-that, in consequence of your esteem and friendship for han, you had caused
and placed propertyof7oursandjourbrother'sin his hands for sale,
nd that it is probable, from timeto time, you may have considera-

ble transactions together; on my part, I ihink proper to'guarantee
to you the conduct of my son, and shall hold myself liable, and
do hold myself liable for the faithful discharge of all his engagements to you, both now and in future." (Signed,) GEo. PRESTBIA,"

will extend to a partnership debt incurred by William P to

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
Charles Drummond, aod Richard his brother, it being proved tha,
the transactions to which the letter related were uith them as
partners, and that no other brother of the said Charles was inteDrummond
V.
rested therein.
Prestman. In such a case, the record of a judgment confessed by the principal,
1827.

William P., to Richard D., as surviving partner of Charles and
Richard D., for the amount of the debt due by William P to the
partner.bip firm, was held to be admissible in evidence, inter alia.
to charge the guarantee, George P., under hisletter of guarantic.

Feb. WLst.

This cause was argued by the Sttorney General and Mr
.Meredithfor the plaintiffa and by Mr. Taney and Mr. Donaldson for the defendant. 6

Marclh 9th.

Mr. Justice JoH.so.delivered the opinion of the Court,
This case arises on the following state of facts: Richard
and Charles Drummond, being engaged in some joint mercantile adventures, which appear to have been carried on

chiefly by Charles, made consignments in the year 18.03 to
William Prestman, then doing business as a commission
merchant in Baltimore. George Prestman, the father of
William, thereupon addressed to Charles Drummond a let'ter of guarantee in these terms:
"CAPT. CHARLES DRUMMOND,

"Baltimore, 1,71h .Nov. 1803.

"Dear Sir--r.My son William having mentioned to me,
that, in consequence of your.esteem and friendship for him,
you have caused and placed property of yours and your
.brother's in his hands for sale, and that it is probable, from
time to time, you may have considerable transactions together; on my part, I think proper, by this, to guaranty
to you the conduct of my son, and shall hold myself liable,
and do hold myself liable, for the faithful discharge of all hli.
engagements to you, both now and in future."
a II Wheat. Rep. 74. e Evans' Pothier, 212. S Slark. Ev. 0io?.
1602. 7 Taunt, 295. 10 East'sRep. 971. Tell. Guarant. 105. S
Term Rep. 454. S Granch, 492. 8 Wheat. Rep. 148. N&e (a.)
be Saund. 411.415.2 Maul. 4 Selib. 868. 5 Bos. Pull.175.
4 Cranch, 224. 7 Cranclr, 69. 1 lllason's Rep. 861. 271. 5 ERp.
Gas. 20. s Stark. Lv. iBsa.- I Stark. Ev. 192. 3 Harris 8
I'Henry. 14e. 4 Johns. Rep. 511. 10 es. 13.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

:517

1827.
The connexion in business was kept up between the
Drummonds and William Prestman until Charles' death,
after which Richard, who resided in Norfolk, came up to Drunmor.d
Baltimore to adjust the accounts of the concern with Wil- Prestman.
liam, and then received from him an account stated as between him and Charles Drummond, on which, after some
corrections, which appear on the face of the account, the balance is struck, for which this -uit is instituted.
This account commences with an acknowledgment of a
balance due the Drummonds in November, 1804, and brings
-down their transactions to December 20th. 1805.
Upon this account a suit was instituted against William
Prestman in 1806, in the name of Richard, survivor of
Richard and.Charles Drummond, and a judgment confessed
William Prestman was dead at the time of the trial of this
cause.
This suit is now instituted upon the letter of guaranty;
and the declaration, after setting out the letter and the subsequent transactions with William, demands the sum ac-.
knowledged due upon the account stated.
Upon the trial, the plaintiff gave irl e idence the letter of
guaranty, the account stated by William, parol evidence of
subsequent acknowledgments of'its correctness, and the recbrd of recovery upon that account, in which he confesses
judgment to Richard, as survivor of Richard and Charles
Drummond; also parol evidence conducing to prove the
joint dealings of the Drummonds.
In the progress of the trial, thedefendants took exception
to the admission in evidence of the record of recovery
against William: the Court overruled the exception, and it
went to'the jury, but the Court refused to grant a prayer
of the plaintiff, that they would instruct the jury that,
upon the whole evidence, he was entitled to a verdict.. And
to this refusal the bill of exceptions is taken, upon which the
principal.question in this cause arises.
As evidencti was permitted to go to the jury, conducing
to prove, as well the copartnership between Richard and
Charles Drummond, as the balance due by William Prestman, and the interest of Richard in that balance, it follows,
that the refusal of the Court to give that instruction, could

518

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

dnly have been upon the ground, that the guaranty did not
1827.
%wov'f' cover this demand, and this, accordingly, has been the
principal question made in argument.
Drummond
V
It is contended, that the correct construction of this guaiii its language
Construction ranty will exclude a copartnership debt; that,
ofand import, it is confined to liabilities to be incurred by
of the letter
William to Charles otaRichard severally, or to Charles indiguaraatte.
vidually, and cannot be extended to a copartnership interest
under a trade ostensibly.carried on as between Charles solely, and William.
We have considered this question attentively, and are
junanimous in the opinion, that the guaranty may well be
construed to cover the joint trade of Charles and Richard.
An interest of Richard is expressly contemplated by the
guaranty,-andthe language of the letter seems more naturally adapted to a joint, than a several interest. For, a concernabeig represented in the person of any one of its members, the use of the pronoun of the second person is naturally suggested, and familirrly resorted to, when we address
ourselves to an individual of the concern. Thts Court is
not called upon to decide whether the words might not also
be correctly ipplied to an individual interest as well as a
.oint concern; it is enough, for the purposes of this action,
if they will cover the latter.
It is a rule, in expounding instruments of this character; " that the words of the guarantee are to be taken
as sttongly against him as the sense will admit," But
it is not necessary to test this letter by any canon of the law
of. aranty more iigid than the first and most general, to
it, "that no party shall be bound beyond the extent of
the engagement which shall appear from the expression .of
the guaranty, and the nature of the transaction 1 There
is nothing on-the face of the lefter which holds out the idea
of a connexion between -William and the Drummonds, exclusively in their individual capacity. The object is,to throw
business into the-hands of the guarantee's son, and t$could
not have been inco.nsistent with.tlais idea to guaranty a
joint trade, as well as an individual trade. The grammatical'construction of the language will sanction this idea, and
the nature and object of the guaranty favours it. If it be
Prestman.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

519

18V7.
conceded, that there is alatent ambiguity on the faco of the
by
the
explained
be
well
might
ambiguity
that
instrument,
V.
objects of the instrument. and the clrcumstaticei attending Drummond
Prestman.
Court
the
that
of
opinion,
therefore,
are,
its origin. We
erred in refusing (he instruction as prayed, and, for that
reason. the judgment must be reversed, and a ventrefactas
de novo awarded.
But, as'is the practice of this Court, where questions present themselves on the record, and are argued, upon which
the same cause may possibly be brought back here, the
Court has also considered the question whether the record
of the judgment between this plaintiff and William, was
properly admitted in evidence.
of tho
On this subject. it is necessary to observe, that it was not Record
u
dgment thr
_.:against
set up as a plea in bar, nor as a decision conclusive of thelj
?5d.
right of the party to recover in this action. Thi're was principal,
missible in evievidence in the cause to establish th&defendant's guaranty. donce against
and the balance acknowledged-by William; also, evidence the guaiantee.
conducing to prove the joint trade carried on by Charles
and Richard Drummond, through the hands of Charles,
with William. This record was aertainly competent to
prove a fact which every judgment is competent to prove
between any parties, to wit, that such a judgment was ob.
tained between certain parties in a 4ertam cause of action.
Jt was also evidence to prove, that the cause of action was
identically the same with the one on which this action was
instituted, and that, in that suit, William Prestman solemnly
acknowledges that the statement made by him in favour of
Charles Drummond, was of a debt really due on a joint trade
between Charles and Richard Drummond. And why
should not this be evidence against George, the guarantee,
who had tendered himself as security to these individuali, in
these very transactions 9
We are perfectly aware of the rule, that he who cannot
profit by a judgment between other parties, should not be
damnified by it. But, here, the application of the rule is
in favour of the admission of this record. Suppose the
suit against William Prestman had gone to a jury, and a
verdict obtained against this plaintiff, can there be a doubt.

uASES IN THE SuPREME COURV1T

that the record would have been admissible in evidence m
favour of this defendant 9
Drummond
The material fact on this subject is, that the liability of
1827.

'

Prestman. the guarantee is dcpendent upon the liability of the princi.pal; the case, therefore, is not widely difTerent from that of
accessory and principal, in which the record of the conviction of the principal is prwma facze evidence against the ac
cessory.
Nor is it unlike the case of Green v. i7eNew River Com.
1 rony, (4 Term Rep. 590.) in which it was held. that a judgment against a master for damage. from the negligence of
,his servant. was good evidence against the servant in an
action against him, by the master, for the same negligence;
the recovery in the one case being dependant upon that in
the other. (See also Stark. Ev. 188, 189.) There, the
case is presented. of a master suing the servant for damage
sustained by the negligence of the servant," the questions
are, whether the master has been damnified by the negligence of the servant, and to what amount, and the record
of a judgment against the master is admitted in evidence
against the servant. The present case, however, is a much
stronger one, it seems unique n its principle; since the
object of introducing the record seems not so much to prove
that a judgment was obtained,as that a judgment was coniessed. Now, the proof of William Prestman's liability to
Drummond, was indispensable to Drummond's recovery
against the guarantee. But this liability might have been
proved by a confession in writing, or even by parol, after
Wris death, if not before; then why not by the more solemn
act of gconfessing it of record?
It is worthy of remark in this case, that the guaranty
purports, by its terms, to be something more than a mere
suretyship for a debt. The words are, I guaranty to you
"the conduct of my son." It partakes, therefore, of the
nature of a bond given by a surety for the faithful discharge
of a duty; and it cannot be doubted, that, in proving the
fact of a breach of the condition of euch a bond, the con.
fessions of the principal, after his death, would be evidence.
It would be clifficult to assign a reason why his confessions

OF THE UNITED STATES.
should lose that character by increasing in their solem.
1827.
nity.
We are aware that there gre cases which have been Drummond
V.
thought to maintain principles inconsistent with these doc- Prestma.
trines. They are chiefly collected together in the 2d vol.
of Mr. .Metcalfs edition of Starkte's Treatise on Evidence,
title Surety.
We have examined those cases, and find some of them
of very little authority, others inapplicable. to the circumstances of the present case, and, generally, in support of
our opinion.
The case of Davis et at. v. Shed et al. executors,
(15 AMass. Rep. 6.) has no application. It was a suit against
the surety of an executor, by a creditor of the deceased,
who had obtained judgment against the executor, and received payments of interest upon the debt. The question
was, whether this precluded the surety from his-plea of the
act of limitations of that State, made in favour of executors. The Court decided, that it did not preclude him. In
thatcase, the record was pleaded in bar, and the decision
given; that it was not conclusive.
In the case of Respublica v. Davis, (3 Yeates, 128.) an
attempt appears to have been made, to introduce a record
for the purpose of proving an admission of counsel in evi.
dencb ; we cannot understand on what principle it was
rejected, but the suit being on a recognizance that one Cobbett should keep the peace, and the breach proposed to be
established being the publication of a libel, parol evidence
of the confession of Cobbett was admitted to prove, against
the surety, that he had published a libel. So that this authority would seem in favour of our doctrine.
So, in the Sheriffs of London v. Tindall, (I Esp. Cases.
394.) which was a suit against the gurety of a bailiff, a receipt endorsed on a warrant, in the hand-writing of the principal, was admitted in evidence, which amounted to nothing
less than a confession that the bailiff had received a sum of
money, and ordered the prisoner discharged. It was ob.
jected, that the bailiff himself should be sworn, but the judge
refused, and admitted the evidence. declaing, that iho b-ai.
66
Vo. XII.

CASES IN'THE SUPREME COURT
liff was, in fact, the defendant in the action. This would
1827.
far to prove, that even in William Prestman's life, the
'go
stated account would have been evidence against George;
Diummond
.v.
Prestman. and the fact of a judgment being entered upon it by confession, could not have been immaterial to corroborate it.
The case of Evans et al. v. Beatie, executors, (5 Esp.
Cus. 26.) seems contra ; for there, in a suit against the guarantee of one Copper, for " any woollens that should be
furnished jim by. plaintif,2" evidence was offered to prove
Copperas parol acknowledgment of certain goods delivered,
but refused on tl~e ground that he might be sworn, and it
was not the best evidence the nature of the case would admit of.
Here, it will be observed, that the principal was living;
but we must not be thought to concur withoutfurther consideration, in the doctrine thatjie could have been equally
sworn for the one party, or compelled to give evidence for
the other. With the surety he had a direct interest, and
against the plaintiff' it was equally direct. In the present
case, the principal was dead. This case is loosely reported,
and attributes some observations to Lord Ellenborough
which we doubt much the authenticity of.
In the case of Higham v. Ridgay, (10 East's Rep. 122.)
the doctrine on these subjects is laid down with so much
good sense as to speak its own correctness. It is to this
eftect, that the principle to be drawn from all the cases is,
that if a person have peculiar means of knowing a fact, and
make a declaration of that fact which is against his interest,
it is clearly evidence after his death, if he could have been
examined to it in Is lifetime. On this principle it is, that
entries in receivers7 accounts are admitted; so, also, an acknowledgment by a witnes, of a debt to another, or of an
acquittance of a debt to himself, because the individual
-whomakes the acknowledgment- has no interest of his own
to subserve, but does it to his own prejudice. In all such
cases, however,'the evidence is received with due caution,
and its weight must rest with the jury.
The most stubborn case on this subject that we. have.considered, is that of Bedl v. Bek, reported in 3 Harru 4
M'Hdnry.

