O1 THE UNITED STATES.
tfat opitioii to be wrong, as to vindicate my own consistency.

383
1827.
Columbian

Certificate,'that the matters sei forth in the defendant's
pleas are sufficient to bar the plaintiff's actionk

[INsu~Rcz.]
INSURANCE COMPANY, Paintifis in Error,
agatnst CATLXTT, Defendant in Error.

The .COLUMBIAN

A policy for l0,000 dollars, upon a voyage "at and from Alexandria
to St. Thomas, and two other ports in the West Indies, and back
to her port ofdischarge, in the United States, upon all lawful goods
and merchandise, laden or to be laden on board thb ship, &c. beginng the adventure upon the said goods and merchdndise from
tbualading at Alexandria, a11 contifung the same until the said
goods and merchandise shailbe safel; landed at St. Thomas, &c.
and the United States aforesaid :"is art insurance upon every successive cargo taken on board in the course of the voyage out and
home, so as to cover the risk of a return cargo, the proceeds of the
sales of the outward cargo.
Such a policy covers an insurance of 10,000 dollars during the whole
voyage out and home, so long as the assured has that amount of
property on board, without regard to the fact of a portion of the
original cargo having been safely landed at an intermediate pozt
before the loss.
Where the cargo, in the course of the outward voyage, and before its
termination, was permanently separated from the ship by the total
wreck of the latter, and the cargo being perishable in its nature,
though not injured to one half its value, it became necessary to sell
it, the further prosecution of the voyage with the same ship or cargo became impracticable. held, that this was a techical total loss,
on account of the breaking up of the voyage.
Whether a delay at a particular port constitutes a deviation, depends
upon the usage of trade with reference to the object of selling the
cargo. Where different ports are to be visited f;r this purpose, the
owner has a right to limit the price at which the master may sell, to
a reasonable extent, and a delay at a particular port, if bovafld

Ins. Co.

v.
Catlett.

CASES IN TIRE SUPREME COURT
made for that purpose, does not constitute a deviation, thougn ddcasioned bv this restriction.
Columbian Freight is not a charge upon the salvage of cargo in the hands of the
Inb. Co
underwriters, whetier the assured is owner of the ship or not.
1827.

V.

Catlett.

Mardi 3d.

This cause was argued by Mr. Webster and Mr. Taylor
for the plaintiffs in error, and by the Attorney General and
Mr. Swann for the defeunlant in error.

Vfarc, 9th.

Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court
This is a writ oferror to the Circuit Court of the District
of Columbia, sitting at Alexandria.
The original action was upon a policy-of insurance, dated
the ,6th of February, 1822, whereby the Columbian Insurance Company insured the plaintiff ten thousand dollars,
lost or not lost, at and from Alexandria to St. Thomas, and
two other ports in the West Indies, and back to her port of
discharge in the United States, upon all kinds of lawful
goods and merchandise, laden or to be laden on board the
ship called the Commerce, &c., beginning the adventure
upon the said goods and merchandise from the loading at
Alexandra, and continuing the sameuntil the saidgoods and
merchandise shall be safely landed at St. Thomas, &c. and
the United' States. The goods and merchandise to be valued, as interest may appear. The policy contained the
usual risks; and the premium agreed on was three and three
quarters per cent., to return half per cent. for each port not
used or attempted, and no loss happens. There are other provisions in the policy, which will be hereafter commented on.
The breach alleged in the declaration is a total loss by perils of the seas, with the usual averraents of notice and nonpayment.
The trial was had upon the general issue, and a verdict
found by consent for the plaintiff, for 10,000 dollars, subject to the opinion of the Court upon the demurrer to evidence filed in the case. It was farthi,
agreed, that if it
should be the opinion of the Court, that the plaintiff-was not
entitled to recover the full amount' of the insurance, but is
entitled to an average loss, then a reference to ascertain
that average, or to modify the amount of the verdict in any

OF THE UNITED STATES.

385

odier respec as to the sum, should be made to an auditor,
1827.
and judgment should be given for the sum finally reported \.v-,,
and confirmed by the Court, silbject, however, to the excep- Columbian
Ins. Co.
tions of either party to any opinion of the Court on that subv.
ject. The reference was accordingly made, and, upon the Catlctt.
comingan of the-auditor's report, the Court pronounced its
opinion, and gave judgment for the plaintiff for $7,656 57
cents, with interest, from the 14th of October, 1822.
From the demurrer to evidence, it'appeared, that the ship
sailed from Alexandria on her voyage about the 14th of February, 1822, having on board a cargo of 2,297" barrels of
flour of the invoice price of %16,887 32 cents, both ship and
cargo being owned by the plaintiff. On the 21st.of March
she arrived in safety with her cargo at St. Thomas, having
met with no accident, and she continued at that port until
the 30th of May following, for the purpose of selling her cargo, and for no other cause. During this period the master,
who was'also consignee, sold by retail 5091 barrels, being
limited, by his instructions, to eight dollars per barrel, and
not being able to procure that price for the residue of the
cargo, he sailed on the 31st 6f May for Cape Haytien with
it, and had also on board some doubloons, amounting to %480,
part of the proceeds of the former sales. He might have
sold his whole cargo at from S7,50, to %7,75 at St. Thomas:
The 509" barrels of flour sold at St. Thomas, according to
the invoice price, amounted to J3,512 99, leaving the value
of the cargo on board, exclusive of the doubloons, at the time
of sailing from that port, according to the invoice, at'$ 2,328
25 cents.
On the 6th of June the ship, with her cargo, 'arrived 9ff
Cape Haytien, and the captain having gone on shore, the
ship stretching too far in, took the ground and was wrecked.
In consequence of this disaster, 155 barrels of flour were totally lost, 1,633 were got on shore, part without injury, but
the greater part damaged, and the whole was sold. The gross
amount ofthe sales at Cape Haytien was $9,391 34 cents,
the expenses of salvage, including commissions on sales,
$4124,72 cents, the proportion of the captain's expenses attaching on the cargo, $285 78 cents. Of the proceeds of the
VOL. XII.
49

.586

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

"1827.
,,
Coliunibian
In. Co.
v..
Catlett.
-

Construction
of the policy

sales at Cape Haytien, the sum of $4,953 89 was investe& if)
coffee,.which was shipped to Baltimore, where it produced
only $3,517 40 cents. The plaintiff makes a claim for
freight of the outward cargo of $2,104 25 ceifts, as a proper
dediuction from the proceeds.
As soon as the plaintiff heard of the loss, he sent the following letter'to the Insurance Company, under date of the
5th July, 1822: "Gentlemen, having received a letter from
edptain M'Knight, (the master,) informing me that the ship
Commerce was lost, I abandon the proportion of the caWio
that your offce was interested in. Respectfully, &c.1 The
captain's protest, and the survey of the ship, were also exhibited to the Company on the 14th of August. The abandonment wras never finally accepted by the directors, but
sundry negotiations took place between them and the plaintiff, which, however, led to no effectual arrangement.

The first questiofi atising in this case, is upon the true

as to the voy- construction of the policy itself as to the voyage insured. Is
age insured. itan insurance upon the original cargo only from the time of
.its loading until its final discharge, or is it an insurance upon
every successive cargo, which is taken on boarlin the course
of the voyage out and home, so as to cover the risk of a return cargo,,the proceeds of the sales of the outward cargo 2
The argument in behalf of the defendant is, that the risk
applies upon the tarms of the policy only to the original cargo, laden at Alexandria. The terms of the policy are, on a
voyage, "at and from Alexandria to St. Thomas and
two other ports in the West Indies, and bick to her port of
discharge inthe United States, upon all lawful goods and
merchandise laden or to be laden on board the ship, &c. , beginning the adventure upon the said goods and merchandise,
froin the lading at Alexandria, and continuing the same until the said goods and merchandise shall be safely landed at
St. Thomas, &c. and the United States aforesaid.", It is
supposed that those words tie up the adventure to the original cargo shipped at Alexandria, because the rrsk is to attach on the same at that port, and to continue on the same
until safely landed at.St. Thomas, &c., and the United States.
Perhaps a very strict grammatical construction might lead
-to such a conclusion. But policies have never been con-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

strued in such a strict and rigid manner. The instrument

087

1827.
itself is somewhat loose in its form, and has always received
a liberal construction with reference to the nature of the Columbian
Ins. Co..
V.
voyage and the manifest intent of the parties. What is the
nature of the present voyage 9 It is upon the face of the po- Catlett.
licy plaiply an insuranc'e upon all lawful goods,.not only for
the outward voyage to the West Indies, but for the homeward voyage to the United States. The underwriters must
be presumed, equally with the assured, to know the nature
and course of such a voyage. It is for the purpose of trade,
and the exchange of the outward cargo, by sale or barter, for
a return cargo of West India productions. If we could shut
our eyes to the knowledge of this fact,.helongina, as ifdoes,
intimately to the history and commercial policy of the nation itself, as disclosed in its laws, the wh'ole evidence ih the
case furnishes abundant proofs of its notoriety. The true policy to be
by
meaning of the policy is to be sought in an exppsition of the construed
reference to
words, with reference to this known course and usage of the the usage o
West India trade. The parties must be supposed to con-trade.
tract with a tacit adoption of it as the basis of their engagements. The object of tle clause under congideration may
be thus rationally expounded, as-intended only to point out'
Te time of the commencement and termination of the risk
on the goods, successively, and at different periods of the voyage, constituting the cargo. It-would be pushing the argument to a most unreasonable extent, to suppose that the
parties deliberately contracted for risks on a homeward voyage, on goods which, according to theknown course of the
trade, and the very nature of the. combnodities, were not,
andcould not be, inteinded to be brought back to the United
States. We are of opinion, that the policy was for the whole
voyage round, and covered any return cargo taken on board
at any of the designated ports in the West Indies. This is
not like the cases cited at the bar, where a policy on goods
at and from a particular port, beginning the adventure from
the loading thereof, has been held not to cover goods taken
on board at an anteceder port. Those are all cases of insurahce-upon a single passage, unaffected by any known
course or usageof trade to explain the intentions of the parties.

CASES iN, THE SUPREME COURT
The next question .is, whether the delay at St., Thomas
1827.
seventy days was not so unreasonable as to constitute a
'for
Columbian deviation. Without question, any unreasonable delay in the
Ins. Co.
ordinary progress of the voyage avoids the policy on this
V.
Catlett. account. But what delay will constitute such a deviation,
Whether the depends upon the nature of the voyage, and the usage of
It may be a very justifiable delay, to wait in
Thomas constituted a de- port, and sell by retail, if that be the course of business,
when such delay would be inexcusable in a voyage requiring
viation.
delay at St. the trade.

or authorizing no such delay. The parties, in entering into
the contract of insurance, are always supposed to'be governed in the premium by the ordinary length of the voyage,
and the course of the trade. That delay, therefore, which is
necessary to accomplish the objects of the voyage according
to the course of the trade, if bonafide made, cannot be admitted to avoid the insurance. In the present case, it is
proved, that the stay at St. Thomas was solely for the
purpose of selling the cargo, and for no other cause. But,
it is said, that a sale might have faken place at St. Thomas
of the whole cargo, if the orders of the owner had not contained a direction to the master limiting the safe at St. Thomas to the price of eight dollars, and that this limitation
was the sole cause of the delay, and.was unreasonable; that
the master ought, under the circumstances, to have sold at
a lower price, or have immediately elected to go to another
port. We are of a different opinion. In almost every
voyage undertaken of this nature, where different ports are
to be visited for the purposes of trade, and to seek markets, it is almost universal for the owner to prescribe limits
of price to the sales. Such limitations have never hitherto
been supposed to vary the insurance, or the rights of the
party under it. 'It cannot be, that the master, if entitled to
go to a single port only, is bound to sell at whatever sacrifice, as soon as he arrives at that port, and within the period at which he may unload, and sell, and reload a return
cargo. He must, from the very nature of the case, have a
discretion on this subject. If he arrives at a bad market, he
must have a right to wait a reasonable time for a rise of the
market, to make suitable inquiries, and to try the effect of
partial and limited sales. He is not bound to sell the whole

OF THE UNITED STATES.

389

1827.
cargo at once, whatever be the sacrifice, and thus frustrate
the projected adventure. In short, he must exercise in
olu.lian
this, as in all other cases, a sound discretion for the interest Ins.
Co.
V.
of all concerned, and if it be fairly and reasonably exercised, it ought not to be deemed injurious to rights secured Catlett.
by the policy It is as much the true interest of the owner to
sell in a reasonable time, and with all proper despatch, as it
is for the underwriters. To be sure, if the owner should
limit the price to an extravagant sum, or the master should,
delay after all reasonable expectations of a change of market were extinguished, such circjimstances might properly
be left to a jury to infer a delay amounting to a deviation.
And here, again,, as on thq former point, it may be remarked,
that every underwriter is presumed to know the ordinary
course of the trade, and to regulate his proceedings accdrdingly.
But, it is said, that there is no sufficient evidence of the
usage of trade in the present case. It is to be remembered
that this is a case which comes before this Court upon a demurrer to evidence. The plaintiff was not bound to have
joined in the demurrer without the defendant's having distinctly aamitted, upon te record, every fact which the evidence introduced on his behalf conduced to prove; and that
when the joinder was made, without insisting on this -preliminary, the Court is at libbrty to draw the same inferences
in favour.of the plaintiff, which the jury might have drawn
from the facts stated. The evidence is taken most strongly
against ihe party demurring to the evidence. This is the
settled doctrine in this Court, as recognised in P aling v..
The United States, (4 Cranch's Rep. 219.) and Fozwle v. The
Common Council of .dlexandia, (11 Wheat. Rep. 320.)
The testimony in the present case, does not, in Airect
terms, (as has been justly stated at the .bar,) establish the
general usage of the West India trade* The witnesses do
not, generally, speak to a usage, eo nom;ne. But it cannot
be denied, that its scope and object are to establish the
usage by an enumeration of facts, and voyages, by persons
experienced in the trade, and referring to their own know-lecge and general information. It thus conduces, indirectly, to prove the usage ; and as ifis altogether one way, it is

.CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
certainly such that a jury might infer a usage from it. And
Sif so, this Court may infer .it. We consider it, then, as. a
Colamban fair deduction from this testimony, that considerable delays
IWs. Co.
in port inthe West India trade are not uncommon, for the
v.
Catlett. purpose of ttking the advantages of the market, and that
1827.

sales by -retail are within the usage. There are no facts
from which this Court can.infer, that the delay in the present case was unreasonable or unusuaJ , and, consequently,
we cannot admit, that the delay amounted to a deviation.
The case of. Oliver v. The .Maryland Insurance Company,
(7 Cranch'sRep. 487.) is in no respect -inconsistent -with
this doctrine. One question in that case was, whethgFthe
delay at Barcelona, for the purpbse of taking in a -return
cargo, was a deviation.. The Court below instructed the
'jury, that it was not, if .the vessel did not remain longer in
that port than the usage and custom of trade at that place
fendared necessary to complete her cargo. This Court was
of.npmion, that the instruction was, in substance, correct.
The only difficulty which arose was from the terms of the
instruction, which seemed to limit the right, not to the time
necessary to take in the.cargo, but to a particularperod, regulhtedby the usage of trade. The Chief Jastice there
said, " There is some doubt spread over the opinion in this
case, in consequence of the terms in which it is expressed.
The vessel might certainly remain-as long as was necessary
to complete her cargo, but it is scarcely to be supposed this
was regulated by usage. and custom. The usages and customs of a port, or of a trade, are peculiar to a port or trade;
But the necessity of waiting, where a cargo is to be taken
onb'oard, until it can be obtained,. is common to all ports,
and all trades. The length of time frequently employed
in selling one cargo and procuring another, may assist in
proving, that a particular vessel has, or has not, practised
unnecessary delays in port, but can establish no usage by
which the tim e of irimaintng in port ts fixed. The substantial part of*the opinion, however, appears to have been, and
seems so to have been understood., that the plaintiff could
-not recover, unless the jury should be of opinion, that the
vessel did not remain longer at Barcelona than was necessary to complete her cargo. of which necessity the time

OF THE UNITED STATES.

391

1827.
usually employed.for that purpose might be evidence."
This case, therefore, recognises the right to wait in port for
the purpose of selling one cargo and procuring another; Columbian
and the reasoning is employed solely to avoid a criticism n.
founded upon some ambiguity of phrase peculiar to that Catlett.
case. On the other hand, the cases cited at the bar abundfantly prove, that .the usage and course of trade are very
material to determine whether the delay be unreasonable or
not. a
The next question is, whether there has been a total loss. Whether there
a total
And this divides itself into two distinct considerations; first,
whether the facts of the cage created a right of abandonment as for a technical total loss, and, secondly, if so, whether there has been a legal abandonment by the assured.
Upon the first point there is not much room for difficdlty.
.The insurance was not for a single passage, but for the round
voyage out and home. the cargo, in the course of the
outward voyage, and before it was terminated, (for the master had still an election to go to another port after his arrival
at Cape Haytien,) was permanently separatedfrom the ship
by the total wreck of the latter. It was a perishable cargor,
and much injured by th%accident, though it does not appear
to be to the amount of one half its value ; and it was liable
to still farther deterioration. There was a recessity, then,
for an immediate sale at Cape Haytien, and tie farther prosecutibn of the voyage with that ship, or that cargo, became
impracticable. It was completely frustrated. Under such
circumstances, we are of opinion, that, according to the established doctrine of the commercial law, it was a clear
case of a technical total loss, on account 6 the breaking up
of the voyage. It is a much stroihger case than that of
Dorrv. The .Niew-England Insurance Company, (4 Mass.
Rep. 232.) or Rudson v. Harralon, (3 Brod. 4"Bing 364.)
where the Court held the losses total.
as to
question
Was there, then, a dfue i-nd legal abandonment 9 The te
b
abandon:
letter of abandonment is admitted to have been sent in due ihent.
a Salvadorv. Hopkins, 3 Burr. 1707.

Villance v. :De.Mar,

1 Campb. Rep. 50,. Onger v. Jennings, 1 Camp& Rep. 505. n.
Phillips' Inzszr. 18t, 185.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
season, and, in its terms, it amounts to a cession of the property. Under ordinary circumstances, it would furnish-noColumbian thing upon which to suspend a doubt. The difficulty arises
Ins. Co.
from two clauses in the particular form of policy used by
V.
Catlett this company. One is in the following terms: " Incase of
loss, the same shall be paid in sixty days after proof and adjustment thereof, without apy deduction, except the amount
of the premium, if then unpaid." The other, is, "it is
'hereby agreed, that the insured shall not abandon to the insurers untilsixty days have elipsed after having given notice
to them of his intention so to-do, and of the loss o.r event
wiuch may entitle the insured thereto." The suit wqs not
brought until after m'ore than one hundred and twenty days
had elapsed from the abandonmieqt made by the letter of the
5th of July. No question, therefore, aribes on this head.
But the argument is, that the notice -of abandonment must,
by the terals of the policy, precede the actual abandonment
sixty days; and that, in the present case, either no notice
at all of such intention has been given, or there has been no
'actual abandonment at the end of that period. The letter
of the 5th of July must either operate as a notice of abandonment, or as actual abandonment; if the formei, then there
has been no act of abandonment following up the notice;
if the latter, then it was made too soon, and contrary to -the
terms of the stipulation. Such is the stress of the argument.
In construing,these clauses,,it is material t6 consider the
intention of the parties, -as expounded by the general prrn'ciples of law applicable to the contract. By these .principies, the assure'd, upon axn abandonment in due season, for
a technical total loss, acquires an immediate right of recovery against the mnderwriters. He is not bound to wait
until they have signified their acceptance or refusal of the
abandovment if it oe valid, nor, if accepted, is he bound to
wait for payment, but he may immediately commence an
action againft them. The object of the first clause is, in
the case of 'anundisputed loss, to obtain a delay of payment
for sixty days. after the adjustment. But, from its very
terms, it can only apply to the case where there has been
proof of loss,'and also qnLadjustmeut. If proof of the lbss
.1827..

OF THE UNITED STATES.

393

has been offered, and no adjustment male, as in case of a 1827.
disputed loss, the clause has been supposed, in the cases
cited at the bar, not to apply ' The underwriter is, then, Columbiau
Ins. Co.
V.
understood to waive the privilege. The true object of the
second clause is, to postpone the absolute right of abandon- Catlett.
ment until sixty. days aier notice of the loss, so as to enable
the underwriters to have time for deliberation upon the acceptance or rejection of it, when made, and to avail themselves of all intermediate events for their benefit. It is
wholly unnecessary to consider whether the assured, after a
notice of abandonment, can retract, if the underwriters
choose to insist upon accepting it; or whether, if, instead
of a mere notice, he tenders an unequivocal abandonment,
which is accepted by the undeywriters within the sixty days,
he has, nevertheless, a. right lo withdraw it, if, within, the
same period, events turn up in his favour. The present
case. does not present any facts lkading to such a question.
The clause is manifestly introduced into the policy for the
advantage of the underwriters, and not of the assured.
But there is -no necessity for giving any very strict interpretation to it to accomplish the fair objects of its provisions.
If Mr.Catlett had written a letter to the company, stating
to them, thal. he thereby gave notice to them of the loss,.and
his intention to abandon, and had then added therein, that at'
the terminatibn of the sixty days they were to deem that
letter aD absolute abandonment, there could scarcely be a
doubt that such a letter would have been sufficient -tosatisfy
the requirements of the clause. It would give to the underwriters the full benefit of it. If he had written, at the same
time, two letters, one containing a notice of his intention to
bandon, and the other that he made an abandonment, to
talte effect at the end of the sixty days after the notice, the
same legal result would seem to be justified. The clause
does not insist upon an abandonment being made inpresen~i, by an instrument dated at the expiration of the sixty
days; but only that it shall not, in point of. law, be obliga,qVos v. Robinson, 9 Johns. Rep& 19?.- Alleyne v. Maryland InsuzaiceCospany, 8 Har. 4r ,os. &p. 408,

VoD..:0.

50

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.
\..a-v .
Columbian
Ins. Co.
v.
Catlett.

tory as an abandonment until that period. This seems to
us a fair and rational exposition of the intention of the
clause. In what respect does the letter of the 5th of July
differ from the legal results above stated 9 It is written with
reference to the known language and stipulations of'the po-

licy., and it must now be interpreted as it must have been
understood, and, indeed, looking to the subsequent proceedings of the conipany, we may say, as it was understood by
both parties. Neither of them seems to have acted upon
the supposition, that any other, or more formal act of aban7
donment' was necessary. The letter gives notice of an intention to abandon, because, in its terms, it includes an actial abandonment. It has a tacit reference to the clause in
the policy, and must be deemed as. a notice to abandon,
and; at the same time, a declar'ation that it shall operate as
an abandonment in the case. as soon as by law it may. In
our judgment, it was a continuing act of abandonment, and
became absolute at the end of the sixty dayA. It was an
abandonment zn presenti, to take effect mfuturo. Neither
the form of the notice, nor the abandonment, is prescribed
in the clause. They may be in one or two "nstruments;
they may be in direct terms, or by fair and natural inference. It matters not how they are given or executed; it
is sufficient, in point of fact, that they have been given or
ejecuted. Our opinion accordingly is, that upon the true
-interpretation of this last clause in the policy, the 16tter of
the 5th of July was a sufficient notice of an intention to
abandon, and that, at the expiration of the sixty days, it
operated as an actual abandonment.
Apportion- The abandonment, then, having been duly made, the next
Inent of the
question that arises is,'how the loss is to be apportioned.
14as,
The argument on behalf of the Company is, that as part of
the cargo was landed at St. Thomas, the amount risked by
them is to be diminished by their proportion of the cargo so
landed. In short, that the loss is now to he made up by
them with reference to the value of the whole cargo on board,
when the risk first attached, and not with reference to the
value on board at the time of the loss, notwithstanding it exceeded the amount insured. We are of a different opinion.
We think the true intent and object of the policy was to co-

01j

THE UII'T'ED STATES.

ver an insurance of 10,000 dollars during the whole voyage 1827.
out and'home, so long as the assured had that amount of
property on board. This is not a policy for a voyage to St. Columbian
Ins. Co.
v.
Thomas only, in which case the argument might justly apCaetlct,
outward
on
the
other
ports
to
,two
ply. But it is a policy
voyage. and also for the homeward voyage. The language
of the policy is. that the underwriters insure 10,000 dollars
at and from Alexandria, and two other ports in the West Indies, and back to the United States. The premium is apportioned accordingly, for a half per cent. is to be returned
1,for each port not used or attempted ;" and the contemplation of the parties manifestly is, that the.premium should be
paid during the round voyage upon the full sum insured, and
that the assured should have the full benefit of the insurance,
so long as he had 10,000 dollars on board. The intermediate landing of a portion of the cargo in the course of the
voyage was wholly immaterial in the understanding of the
parties, so long as the value on board was sufficient to cover,
the insurance. If the dlause, usual in policies in the eastern
States, as to priority of insurance, had been here incorporated, and there had been a subsequent insurance, this. as the
prior policy, must have. first attached to the extent of the
sum insured during the whole voyage. If there had been a
shbsequent insurance without any such clause, it might form
a case for contribution among the various underwriters. but
would in no shape affect the rights of the assured. The loss,
therefore, must be apportioned between the parties in the
proportion which the- sum insured bears to the amount of
value on board at the time of the loss, that ii, as 10,000 dollars bearsto 12,328 2s dollars.
The next question is, whether the freight for the outward Ques..,n as
Voyage is to be deducted ftom the salvage, and allowed the tle fr. It
assured, who was owner of the ship as viell as the cargo.
The amount reported by the auditor is not disputed, and the
controversy is, whether it is a charge upon the salvage in the
hands of the underwriters. In point of fact, no freight was
or could be payable in this case. for the plain reason, that
the assured was owner of the ship, and there could, therefore, be no lien upon the cargo or its proceeds for the same.
But in point of law the case is not supposed to be varied b,'

396

CASES IN THE SUPREME COITRT

this circumstance ; for if the freight would be a proper charge
Son the salvage, if a third person were owner of the ship,
Colunibuan in the hands of the assured, there is no reason why it
Ins. Co
should not be allowed when the assured is owner. We
V.
Catlett. consider the law on this point as cinclus~vely settled. As
between the owner of the ship and the owner of the cargo,
the former has a lien upon the cargo for all the freight which
becomes due apd payable to him, whether it be a full orpro
rate freight. But freight is a charge upon the cargo, against
which the -underwriters do not, in any event, whether of
abandonment with salvage, or of partial loss, undertake to
indemnify the owner of the cargo. In order ,to obtain the
salvage, when in the hands ofthe ship owner, it may become
necessary for the underwriters to pay.the amount of tle
freight, for which they havb a lien, as it may to pay any
other charge created by the act of the owner of the cargo.
But this does not-change the nature or extent of the resp'ovsibility of the underwriters. As between themselves and
the assured, they have a right to deduct the amount so paid
from the loss, or' to recover it in any other manner, as money paid for the use of the latter. This doctrine was expressly held by the Codrt of King's Bench, in Baillie v. Modighiant, (Marsiaul. Ins. 728.) ana was confirmed in the
fullest manner in this Court, in CGaze * Rtchaud v. the Baltimore Insurance Companq, (7 Cranch, 358.)
Ohctions
to
It only remains to notice an objection made to the form
the form of the
Itis .said, that there is no averment in:
declaration, of the declaration;
the declaration, that any preliminary proofs of loss-were offered to the Coviipany,. nor of any prtnise to pay in sixty
days after such proofs, according to the terms of the policy,
nor that any abandonment, or.'notice, was given to the underwriters. It was, in our jbdgmentwholly unnecessary to av4
the lette facts. The abandonment and notice thereof are
but matters of evidence to -establish, the fact of a total
loss, which is expressly aveired in the-declaration. As to
- the other.part of the objection, it proceeds upon a, mistake
.of the terms of the declaration. There is au express averment, after the allegation of the loss, that the Company, on,
&c.. at, &c. ha notice thereof, and by means thereof became liable. &c. and in corsideration thereof promised,
1827.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

307

that they would pay the plaintiff the sum due, "according 1827.
to the tenor and effect of the said policy of insurance." This
is a sufficient averment of a promise to pay according to the Columbian
Ins. Co.
v.
stipulations of the policy, and conforms to the general course
Catlett.
of precedents in pleading.
Upon the whole, it is the opinion of this Court, that the
judgment of the Court below i so far as it allowed the freight
of -2041 2 dollars to the assured is erroneous, and ought to
be reversed : and that, in all other respects, it ought to be
affirmed.
Mr. Justice JoHNsoN. I concur with the Court in all
the points decided in this cause, except thatwhich relates to
freight. On that it is my impression, that they have misapprehended the case, the questibn, and the doctrine on which
it turns. If so, it is not to be wondered at if it should appear that they have decided upon the authority of adjudications which have no bearing upon the case.
The great disadvantage of Catlett's cause, arises from
the form in which t1his question is presenteal. It is raised in
the adjustment of this loss, and comes up so confounded and
blended with other matters, that it may well bewilder those
who are more conversant with special pleadings, than with
mercantile .statements. To give this question a fair chance
with a lawyer, it should have come up on an action instituted by the underwriters to recover of the ship owner money which'arose from the proceeds of in abandoned cargo,
andhiad been remitted to the owner. The questions on the
subject of freight would then have been distinctly presented, to wit, whether the freight had been earned, and whetheithe owner had not a right to set it off against the pro"Ceeds of the abandoned cargo, And who would then entertain a doubt upon the subject? Would the ship owner have
been permitted to pay over the proceeds of the abandoned
cargo to the underwriters, and take his remedy against the
shipper of the goods ' No one -can imagine such a doctrine.
It is said, that the owner of the cargo shall, in no case,
throw the freight upon the underwriter. But there are
other interests alwaya involed in such cases, besides those

GASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
of owner and underwriter of the cargo. The ship owner
18127.
-has his rights, and is not bound to forego his lie'n on the cargo
Columbian for the freight, and to look to an absent, or insolvent owner,
Ins. Co.

V.
Catlett.

or insurer, for indemnity. The master is his agent to receive the freight, as well as agenf of the underwriter to remit the salvage, and has a right, nay, is bound, to take care
of the interests of his employer.
It is not, therefore, the owner of the cargo who throws
the freight upon the underwriter, but the owner of the ship,
in the fair exercise of his unquestionable rights. It is
clear, then, that the freight may be lqgally thrown upon the
underwriters, by the!act of another, even in opposition to
the will of the insured. It must, then, be ascertained, whether the underwriter, who has thus had the freight thrown
upon him, by having it deducted from the proceeds of the
salvage, can recover it back from the insured. And, in order to examine the question distinctly, we will suppose the
case of a payment of a loss before the freight has been thus
thrown upon the underwriter, that is; before the proceeds
of the salvage have been realized and remitted to the ship
owner, and by him applied to his own freight.
And on what principle could a right in the insurer to recover back, in.such an action against the insured, be maintained ?
It must be recollected, that I am here speaking of the
case of an abandonment, on a voyage in which freight has
been earned. In cases of absolute fotal loss, no freight can
be earned ; but in that of a technical total loss, it is well
known that freight may be earned. It was not disputed in
the argument, that freight, in this case, was earned; and the
sufficiency of the abandonment to cast the loss upon the
unddrwriters, is now decided. It i;s true, the underwriters
did not accept the abandonment, and haive not, by any express act, accepted the salvage, but they are doing it now
-when they lay claim to the proceeds of the- salvage remitted to Catlett, If they do not mean to be encumbered
with the freight, let them withdraw their claim to the remittance, and Catlett then remains tn posse.sion of the
cargo, subject to his liets for freight.
Theease must. then, be considered as one tn ivinh thc

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1827.
freight is earned, and both'-ibe abandonment and salvage
accepted, but the proceeds of the latter, remitted to th
ship owner, and by him retaibned for freight. The ques- Colombian
Inis. Co.
v.
tion will be, whe her, !n such a case, the underwriter, who
has thus been compelled, in effect, to pay the freight;can Catlett.
9
recover it, in any form of action, from the insured
9
The
What is the effect of a valid abandonment
right here contended for is, " the right to pay the freight
out of the salvage." It is not true, in a sense applicable to
this case, that the insured has no right to throw the freight
upon the insurer. The right to abandon positively implies
the right to throw the freight upon the underwriter indirectly. It is a right to charge him with a total loss, and if
he gets nothing from the wreck, the insured has only asserted his rights against him to their acknowledged extent. It
is a right to convert a partial actual loss, into a technical total loss.
There is one technical total loss familiarly known to lawyers and merchants, wLich occurs without abondonment. I
mean, where the goods saved are less in value than the
freight. There is a complete analogy between the two
cases, and. in the latter case. it is expressly adjudged, and
so laid down by the best elementary writers, "that the insured has a right to apply the salvage to pay the freight,
(2 Marsh. 588.) giving credit for the balance only to the
underwriter." (2 JlMarzh. 619.) And this is precisely the
right which Catlett contends for in the present case.
The right so to apply the salvage results unavoidably from
the received and acknowledged consequences of the right
of abandonment.
Take the familiar case that occurs every day in time of
war. A vessel is captured by an euiemy , the insurer on the
cargo hears of it, tenders his abandonment, and it is accepted and paid. Who. at that period, would think-of making
a discount of the freight from the policy 7 It has not been
earned, the insured never was liable for it. But the ship
is rescued by her crew, proceeds on her voyage, arnves in
safety, and delivers her cargo. Here freight is earned, and
must be paid, but by whom 9 Certainly not by the shipper.
4
or he is divorced from the adventute, and the goods as muth

400

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

the property of the underwriters as if they had purchased
b and shipped them.
Columbian
I have ment'oned the case of an accepted abandonment;
Ins. Co.
v.
but the effect of a valid abandonment is the same as if it had
Catlett. been accepted.
In the case at bar, at what point of time did the transfer
of interest take place? Certainly at the ihstant when the
accident happened. The abandonment has the same effect
as if the owner and insurer had been on board, and the abandonment made at the moment the misfortune occurred.
But freight had not then' been -earned, the liability for it had
.not attached on the insured; and, in the eye of the law, as
between him and the underwriter it could no more attach
on him than if the cargo had then gone to the bottom. By the
abandonment, it is as to him as if it had gone to the bottom.
The law places in that qituation, by declaring it a total loss;
and the language of the books on this subject is, " hat he
ought not to be placed in a worse situation than if the cargo
had gone to the bottom." (Boyjfield & Brown, 2 Str.etpassim.)
The insured never incurred the liability for the freight, but
the underwriters did, for when the freight was earned, he
stood in the place of the insured.
In arguing to show that a liability for the freight never
did attach upon the insured as between him and the underwriter, I have considered thV iransfer by abandonment as
taking place at the moment of the accident. But as to the
effect of the abandonment the law goes further, and considers the underwriter in the light of the owner from the
commencement of the voyage. (Marshall,601-2.) Upon
this principle it is, that in the case of a ship insured and
abandoned, the underwriter is entitled to whatever freight
sne may afterwards earn. In the language of Mr. Marshall,
"the insurer becomes tke legal assignee and owner, and
from that time he is liabilo for all her future outgoings, and,
consequently, entitle4 to all her future earnings."
But if entitled to freight to be earned by the ship, why
should not the cargo in his hands remain liable for freight to
be afterwaids incurred? Liability in the one instance is the
correlative of right intje other. It is altogether a mistake
ro call this charging the underwriter with the freight. The.
1827.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
proposition affirmed is, that the abandonment does not dis- 1827.
cdarge the cargo from the lien for the freight, to which it
was subject in the hands of the insured. Even in the hands of Columbiau
Ins. Co.
v.
the owner, this liability was not unlimited and unconditional,
for if damage is incurred, (by perils of the sea, not from in- Catlett,
ternal decay,) and the salvage goods will not pay the freight
in value, the owner is not bound to receive them. Of his
interest in this behalf he may judge for himself, it is only
when he does receive them that he must pay. And this is
precisely the alternative which Catlett holds out to the underwriters.
There is a very strong, and, I think, conclusive adjudication on this subject, to be found in the third volume of the
Mllassachusetts Reports; it is the case of Fotlherrngiamv.
Prznce, p. 563. vol. 3.
Wages are to the ship what freight is to the cargo; a
contingent liability attaching only on the fulfilment of the
contract. In the case referred to, a vessel had been insured
from St. Ubes to a port of discharge in the United States.
She was cast away on Cape Cod, and abandoned, but the
salvage was sufficient to pay the wages, and the proceeds
were remitted to the underwriters. The wages were thus
earned, and the owners were compelled to pay them, and
now brought suit against the underwriters, counting as well
for money had and received, as on the policy. The Court
decided, that the underwriters were bound to refund the mo.
ney paid for wages by the owfiler; and the adjudication is in
principle precisely what is here contended for in behalf of
the plaintiff below. Had the salvage in this case been remitted to the underwriters, and Catlett brought his action for
money haid and received to recover, his freight, it *oula
have been a. qase on all-fours with the present.
It has been supposed that to decide that point against the
uftiderwriters, would be to make them liablefor two insurances upon receiving one premium, that it would be~making
them liable for both freight- and cargo, upon a premium received only on the cargo.
But, it may be truly said, that the ipeonsistency is on the
other side; the argunient is directly in point in favour of
this claim for freight. This decision is not only making
51
VOL. XII.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.
Catlett liable on the cargo, where he was his own -insurer
.for the freight only, but is making him lose his freight after
'
Columbian he had earned it, and pay it into the pockets of underwriters
Ins. Co.
who had never insured it, and, therefore, could not acquire
V,
CatletL it by abandonment.

Supposp another company had insured the freight in this
id'tance, and Catlett had abandoned to them, can it be

doubtedthat ifthe proceeds of the salvage had been remitted to the insurers on the cargo, the insurers on the freight
would have been entitled to recover it of them 9 If so,
Catlett is entitled to it, for he was his own insurer on the
freight. Whether we consider him as having.msured, or

having earned it, his right is incontestible.
*But,it is supposed, that the cases of Baillie v. Aodigliam, and of Caze & Ricliaud v. The BaltimoreInsurance Com-

-pany, have established a contrary doctrine.

It appears

to me, that it is by placing too much confidence in the general language of indexes, and marginal notes, and misapprehending the doctrine on which this case turns, that the,mistake arises.
We have nothing but a manuscript report of that case of
.7aillie v. Modig lianz, and obviously one for which the larned judge, by whom the decision was made, is very little indebted to his reporter. We find in it a mass of correct
principles, thrown together without order, and without ob.lect, and which, I make no doubt, is the skeleton of a very
learned and correct opinion; and one which, had we the
whole of it, would have furnished a full exposition of the
doctrine of this case, as well as qf that. But, as a decision,
the case of Baillie v. Alodigliani does not touch.the present
case. For, in that case, there was no abandonment; the
cargo was sold in France, with the benefit of the pro rata
freight, and the owners wished to charge the underwriters
with the freight so paid, as a loss incident to the capture.
The question in the present case did not arise there, and
could not arise in any case that does not comprise in it both
the ingredients of technical total loss, and freight earned.
"Thatwas a case of partial loss, and .what the judge chose

to say about the doctrine of the case of a total loss, was
nere gratis dicta,

It would be but charity, or an act of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

403

1827.
the words attributed to him, to wit, " Incase of a loss, total as between the insurer and insured, with salvage, the Columbian
Ins. Co.
v.
owner may either take the part saved, or abandon, but in
neither case can he throw the freight upon the underwri- Catlett.
ters; because they have not engaged to indemnify him
against it, and have nothing to do with it ;17that he had in
mind the only sense of those words in winch it was possible
that he could be correct; which was, "that they could in
no case raise a personal charge for freight against the underwriters, where sufficient salvage to pay the freight had
never come to their hands."
In any other sense, every merchant on the Exchange of
London could have told his lordship that he was- incorrect.
To have obtained from the learned judge a decision applicable
to the present cause, the question should have been pro.
pounded to him as applicable to a case of technical total
loss, with salvage sufficient to cover the freight. The answer would then have been rendered in the language of the
books, a language on this subject equally that of lawyers.
merchants, and insurers, " Where freight is earned, the insured, in the case propounded, has a right to apply the sal.
vage to the paymedlt of freight;" which is, in so manwords, what Catlett contends for in the present cause.
I have reasoned all along on the assumption that it makes
no difference in principle whether the vessel and cargo be
owned by the same individual, or by different persons. I
consider it unquestionable, and even conceded, hnd, indeed.
where the cargo is msured, and the vessel not, after abandonment, the underwriter is, in the eye of the law, an owner
ab orzgme, of the cargo, and so distinct from the ship owner.
In the case of Caza 4, Richaud v. The Balimre Insurance
Company, (7 Cranch's Rep. 358.) the counsel attempted to
draw a distinction ; but the Court did not listen to it, and in
their decision obviously consider it as immaterial to the
question before them.
The case of Caze v. Richaud is that which is relied
on as most fatal to the claim of freight in the present
cause; but to me it appears as plain as an axiom, that the
Court have themselves made it a different case, and adjudged

,ustlee to his learning, to suppose, that if he ever did utter

494

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUME

1827. it to be no authority -against the present claim. No one
%pretends
that Catlett could have retained for freight if no
Columblan freight had been earned. But this is the express decision of
Co. f
h1bs.
V.
the Court in the case of Caze 8/ Rithaud; and if there was
Catlett. no freight due, of what consequence to the decision was it
tb say "'that it was no lien upon the cargo," or that "1the underwriters could not be made to pay the freight?" The proposition was equally true, of the most indifferent person. It
is of no consequence as to the bearing of that decision upon
this case, to inquire whether the Court were right or wrong
in deciding that no freight was earned. In so deciding, they
have made it a different case. from this in an indispensable
circumstance, the earning of freight; and plainly shown,
thai they could not have bad in contemplation to decide a
case in which freight had been eartied, which is the present
case. I believe myself, that we were wrong ii every line of.
that decision, that it will not stand the test of commercial
law in any one of the three propositions that it lays down.
The case was this: a vessel and cargo belonging to the
same owner sailed from Bordeaux for this country. The
cargo was insured, the vessel and freight not. On her voyage, there being war between Great Britain and France, she
was captured and carried into Halifax, having then crossed
the Atlantic, and gone three fouyths of the way on her course
to her port of destination. The cargo was abandoned, and
vessel and cargo both condemned; but-on an appeal, the
,condemnation was reversed as to both. It is mentioned
in the report, that there was no appeal "as to the freight;"
but the case is defective in showing whether separate clamis
were filed for ship and cargo, or the two included in a joint
*.laim by the owner. Ifjoint, the question of freight could
not have arisen. But if, as seems probable from the proceeds
of the cargo passing into the hands of the underwriters, the
claipns were several, then a question may be raised whether
the plaintiff was not concluded by his acquiescence in a judicial decision of a competent tribunal against the claim to
freight. This would have sustained the judgment against
him in this Court, had there been no other obstacle to his
rqpovering.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

405

182y.
As the abandonment was accepted, and the sum insured
paid, the proceeds of the cargo got into the hands of the un- ,
and re- Colombian
derwriters, and that suit was instituted for money had
Ins. Co.
I
V.
ceived to the use of the ship-owner. Had he prefeuted this
Catlett
claim against the proceeds of the cargo, while lying in the
registry of the British admiralty, there cannot be a doubt that
it would have been adjudged to him in the distribution of the
money among the several claimants.
The three propositions which the opinion affirms in the
case of Caze / Richaud, are,
1. That ubder no circumstances can the insured throw
the freight upon the underwriters, even by abandonment.
2. That no freight, even pro rata, was earned in that
cause.
3. That the lien of the owner on the cargo for his freight
-could not affect the question.
On the first point, no one will pretend to maintain the affirmative as a general proposition. Losses are either total,
partial, or technically total. Upon an actual total loss no
qu*estion of freight can ever arise, for there is no freight earned. In the case of partial loss, it is never admitted m adjustments ; and this is the full import of the decision in
Bailliev. Modiglian, and in the case of Gibson v. Th7e Philaddphta InsuranceCompany, and some others. It isa charge
payable after the arrival of goods at their port of destination.
and therefore, never adnmitted into an adjustment of a partial
loss. The cases of technical total loss are of two kinds, as
has been before noticed, the one with, the other without
abandonment. It is not contended that, even in these, the
insurddcan throw the freight upon the underwriters otherwise than incidentally by abandonment. It has been shown,
that this is not the principle at all, upon which the doctrine
insisted on by Catlett rests, and may, therefore ) be safely
conceded to the case of Modigliani, and all others in which
these dicta are to be found. The principle is, "that'the
owner cannot, by his abandonment, devest the lien which
the ship owner has in the goods abandoned." That the underwritpr takes the cargo cum onere,-a rule which is held
sacred even against hostile capture, (the Der Mohr in 3 and 5
Robinson.) The law is, that the master is not bound to part

GASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.
y

with his cargo, and fails in his duty if he does, until- his
freight is paid. Why should lie be so bound any more in

Columbian the case of the transfer by abandonment, ihan in any other
IA& Co
v.
tranfer 9 In that ,la- oI ,echm'cal total losses, which arises
Catlett. where the freight incurred exceeds the value of the thing
saved, it is expressly decided, that the right to apply the sal.
vage to the freight exists, and it is lmpo..sible to draw a distinction between that cla. of cases. and the cases of techn.;
cal total' -ss produced by abandonment.
The frill latitude of tile assertion. therefore, that the insured cannot throw the freight upon the insurer. may be
conceded without affecting the right of the party to freight
in the present case. The rule is rightly laid down, but its
application is mistaken.
The same observations dispose of the third position assumed by the Court in Caze 4, Richaud, since it must be ob.
vious, that the lien of the ship-owner on the cargo is all important to the question. The right to a,,!.y the salvage to
the freight grows out of the right of the master to hold the
cargo for the freight, whatever change of interest may bc
produced in it by the act of the owners of the cargo.
The consideration of the second proposition of the Courc
in Caze 9 Richaud's case, is not material to this cause, any
further than it shows that they considered themselves as deciding a case the very reverse of the present.
Yet so convinced am I, that the decision there made
against a pro rata freight was a hasty decision, that ,I will
conclude with expressing a hope that, if ever the subject
should again come before this Court, it will pause and examine the doctrine without prejudice from that decision,
since it is .one which involves principles of great interest to
the mercantile world, and on which, I will undertake to say,
if ever that case should be reviewed, there will be found a
vast deal of learning and authority against the decision, and
very little to sustain it.
In the very case which the Court profess to decide, ,the
case of Baillie v. AModigliani, the same pro rata charge was

paid and acquiesced in by the Court and the bWr, without a

questiop.

0~7

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1827.
Upon the whole, I never was clearer in any opinion m
my life, than that the decision now rendered against,the ,
Ins. Co.
allowance of freight in this adjustment, is not.to be sustained Columbian
V.
by either principle or authority.
Catlett.
[After the opntion of the Court was delivered in this case,
the parties ascertained, that the auditors report was incorrect, (by the disallowance of the freight,) in some other respects, and required a different adjustment; and application
was accordingly made for a hearing upon these points.
The following additional opinion wns subsequently delivered
by the Court.]
Mr. Justice STORY. In consequence of the former opi- March 1511
mon delivered in this cause, the parties have found it necessary to re-adjust the auditor's report in several particulars not suggested at the former argrxnt. Indeed, upon
that argument, the parties assured that the report was perfectly correct, except as to the item of freight. We have
examined the report, and are satisfied that the original
plaintiff is entitled to recover the sum of 6,626 dollars and
18 tents, with interest from the 14th of October, 1822,
which is the residue of the sum of 10,000 dollars insured by
the Company, deducting the premium note and the-proportion of salvage belonging to the underwriters, which has
been received by the original plaintiff; and the judgment of
the Circuit Court is to be reformed accordingly.

This cause came on, &c. On consideraJUDGMENT.
tion whereof, it is ORDERED and ADJUDGED by the Court,
that there is error in so much of the judgment .as allowed to the said Catlett, as freight to be deducted from the
salvagc, the sum of two thousand and forty-one dollars and

twenty-five cents.

And it is further

ORDERED

and

ADJUDG-

ED, that upon the reformation of the auditor's report; re-

quired by the disallowance of the freight aforesaid and otherwise, there is now due and payable to the said Catlett the
sum of 6,626 dollars and 18 cents, together with interest
thereon, from the 14th of October, 1822, the said sum being the balance of the sum of 10,000 dollars insured, after

408

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1827.

deducting the amount. of the premium due on the poliy,
viz. 376 dollars, and also the proportion of the salvage ben. Cterest longing to the said Columliian Insurance Company, viz.
Ins
omp.
V.
2,997 dollars and 82 cents, received by the said Catlett;
Ruggles. and that the judgment of the Circuit Court, to the amount
of the said sum of 6,626 dollars and 18 cents, and interest
thereon from the 14th of October, 1122, be and hereby is
affirmed, and as to the residue of the said judgment, be and
hereby is reversed: and the cause is to be remanded to the
said Circuit Court, with directions to enter judgment for the
said Catlett accordingly: the parties in the Court below to be
at liberty to open the auditor's report, so far as respects the
item for 480 dollars, the proceeds of the doubloons, and the
item for, 719 dollars and 37 cents paid over to captain
F-Knight; and the judgment to be varied by the Circuit
Court as these items may be found for either party; execution, however, to be granted immediately for the balance of
the,judgment, deducting the said sum of 719 dollars and 37
cents.

[INSURANCE.]
The GZNERAL INTERLEST INSURANCE COPANY, Plaintiffs m
Error;agaswtRUGGLiEs Defendant in -Error.
Where an insurance was effected after a loss had happened, though

unknown to the assured, the master having omitted to communisato information to the owner, and having expressed his intention
not to write to the owner, and taken measures to prevent the fact
of the loss being known, for the avowed purpose of enabling the
owner to efTect insurance, in consequence of which informadion of
the loss had not reached the parties at the time the jolicy was underwritten: Beld, that the owner having acted with good faith,
.v" nQt precluded from a recovery upon the policy on account of
'the fraudulent misconduct of the master.

