CASES IN THE SUPREME COJRT
part of the Africans originally put on board the Antelope by
1827.
.the Spanish owners.
We think this evidence was sufficientL under the very peAI'Lemore
V.

Powell.

culiar circumstances of this case, reasoiahly to satisfy the
mind of the identity of thirty-mne of the Africans as belonging to the Spanish claintants.
DECREE and CERTIFICATE. This cause came on, &c,
On consideration whereof, this Court is of opinion, that
there is no error in the decree of the Circuit Court so far
as the same proceeds, and that it be AFFIRMED, and upon
the question on which the judges of the Circuit Court were
divided in opinion, it is the opinion of this Court, that all
the Africans. not to be delivered to the Spanish claimants,
ought to be decreed .to be delivered to the United States.
unconditionally, and without the preccdent payment of expenses,. to be b)themi disposed of according to law.

.orEXcANGE.
,BILL

SURETY.,

A'L.NionE, Plaintiff in Error, against POWELL and other:.
Defendants in Error.
An agreement between the creditor and principal debtor for delay.
or otherwise changing the nature of the contract to the prejudicv
of the surety, in order to discharge the latter, must be an agreement
having a sufficient consideration, and binding in law upon the par-

ties.
mere agreement by the holder of a bill with the drau er fbr delay.
without any consideration for it, and without any communication
with or assent of the endorser, nill not discharge the latter, aftei
lie has been fixed in his responsibility by the refusal of the drawee
and due notice to himself.
A~t.
5th.

THIS cause was argued by Mr. White and Mr. Eaton foi
the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Webster and Mr. Bli-s for
,he defendants in error

OF THE UNITED STATES.

.Mr.
Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
7
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
l'Lemore
States for the District of West Tennessee.
V.
The original action was assumpsit, brought by Powell, ropen.
Fosters & Co. as holders of a bill of exchonge, drawn by one Feb. M.
Thomas Fletcher, in May, 1819, at Nashville, upon Messrs.
M-Neil, Fisk and Rutherford, at New Orleans, payable to
Thomas Read, or order, for two thousand dollars, in sixty
days after date, and by him endorsed to the defendant, John
C. M-Lemore, and by him to the plaintiffs. The bill, upon
presentment for acceptance, was dishonoured, and due notice of the dishonour was given to the defendant.
At the trial, upon the general issue, Thomas Fletcher, the
drawer, was, under a release from the defendant, M'Lemore, examined as a witness, and, among other things, testified that, in the month of October following the dishonour
of the bill, "one of the plaintiffs applied to him at Nashville
for the money on the bill, and threatened to sue immediately if an arrangement was not made to pay the bill. The witness then proposed to the plaintiff, if ble would indulge him
four or five weeks, he would himself, to a certainty, pay the
bill. To this the plaintiff agreed,, and told the witness he
was going to Louisville, Kentucky, and would return by
Nashville about the expiration of that time, and would rvceive said payment. Since said time the witness has never
seen said plaintiff." The witness farther testified, that the
defendant was an accommodation endorser for him on the
bill, that the plaintiff told him that the bill would be left with
a Mr. Washington at Nashville, that he expected he would
himself be at that place at the time agreed on, but that, ifhe
did not come, he would give the instructions to Mr. Washing.
ton, by ietter, what to do if the witness did not pay at the ex.
piration of the time agreed on. It did not appear that any con.
sideration was paid or stipulated for this delay, and no suit
was commenced until after this period had elapsed. The
districtjudge instructed thejury, that if they believed the converqation above stated amounted to no more than an agreement that a suit should not be brought for four or five weeks,
ahd that no premium or consideration was given or paid,
or tobe paid by Fletcher. the endorsers were not discharged,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
that an agreement for giving day must be an obligatory contract for a consideration which ties up the hands of the creditor, and disables him from suing, thereby affecting the irteM'Lemore
V.
1827.

'.6

v''

rests and rights of the endorser; that the endorser has a right
to require and demand of the 5:reditor to bring a suit against
the drawer, and if he has disabled himself from bringing a
suit by a contract for a consideration, he has thereby released
the endorser, and that, if the jury were satisfied from the
testimony, that time was given for a valuable consideration
-paid, or to be paid, or that a new security was taken by the
holder, that the endorser was discharged and absolved from
all the obligations of the endorsement.
Under this instruction, the jury found a verdict for the
plkintiffs, upon which there was judgment given in their favour. A bill of exceptions was taken to the charge of the
Court z and the present writ of error is brought for the pirpose qf scertaining its legal correctness.
Question as to It Is qnecessary to give any opinion upon that part df the
the right of tho
endorser to re- charg? which respects the right of an endorser to require
In gequire the hold- the holder to commence a suit against the drawer.
er to commence a suit neral, the endorser, by paying the bill, has a complete
the
against
power to reinstate himself in the possession and ownership
principal,
of the bill, and thus to entitle himself to a personal remedy
on the instrument against all antecedent paries. The same
reason, therefore, does not exist, as may in common cases
of suretyship, to compel thq creditor to active diligence by
suit against the principal. Without expressing any opinion
on this, point,, it is sufficient to say, that the error, if any,
was favourable to the~defendant, and, therefore, it can form
no subject of coniilaint on his part.
The case, then, resolves itself into this question, whether
As to the
agreemen
withthedraw- a mtre agreement with the drawers for delay, without any,
er for delay consideration for it, and without any communication with
Powell.

or assent of, the endorser, is a discharge of the latter, after
he has been fixed in his responsibility by the yefiisal of the
drawee, and due notice to himself. And we are al of opinion that it does not. We admit the doctrine, that although
the endorser has received due notice of the dishonour of
the bilf, et, if the holder afterwards enters into any new
agreement with the'drawer for delay, in any manner chang-

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1827.
ing the nature of the original contract, or affecting the rights
of the endorser, or to the prejudice of the latter, it will dis- ,
charge him. But, in order to produce such a result, the bl-Lemore
agreement must be one binding in law upon the parties, and Powell.
havea sufficient consideration to support it. An agreement
without consideration is utterly void, and does not suspend
for a moment the rights of any of the parties. In the present case, the jury have found, that there was no consideration for the promise to delay a suit, and, consequently, the
plaintiffs were at liberty immediately to have enforced.their
remedies against all the parties. It was correctly said by
Lord Eldon, in English v. Darley, (2 Bos. 8/ Pull. 61.) that
"as long as the holder is passive, all his remedies remain ;"
and, we add, that he is not bound to active diligence. But if
the holder enters into a valid contract for delay, he thereby
suspends his own remedy on the bill for the stipulated period, and if the endorser were to pay the bill, he could
only be subrogated to the rights of the holder, and the drawer
could or might have the same equities against him as against
the holder himself. If, therefore, such a contract be enter.
ed into without his assent, it is to his prejudice, and discharges him.
The cases proceed upon the distinction here pointed out,
and conclusively gettle the preseit question. In Jfatunjn v.
St. Quintin, (1 Bos. .Pull. 652.) where the action was by
endorsees against the drawer of a bill, it appeared, that,
after the bill had become due, and been protested for nonpayment, though no notice had beer. given to the drawer.
he having no effects in the hands of the acceptor, the plaintiffis received part of the money on account from the endorser; and to an application from the acceptor- stating, that
it was probable he should be able to pay at a future period.
they returned for answer, that they zvould not press him.
The Court held it no discharge, and Lord Chief Justice
Eyre, in deliverlig the opinion of the Court, said, that if
this forbearance to sue the acceptor had taken place before
noticing and protesting for non-payment, so that the bill had
not been demanded when due, it was clear the- drawer
would have been discharged, for it would be giving a new
credit to theacceptor. But that. after protest for non-pay.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
mert, and notice to the drawer, or an equwalent-to notice4
Sa right to sue the drawer had attached, and the holder was
3MLemore
not bound to sue the acceptor. He might forbear to sue
V.
Powell. him. The same doctrine was held in .Arundel Bank v.
Goble, reported in a note to Chitt1 on Bills. (Chitty, .379.
note c. edit. 1821.) Thete the acceptor appliedfor time,
and the holders assented to it, but said they should expect
interest. It was contended, that this was a discharge of the
drawer; but the Court held otherwise, because the agreement of the plaintiffs to wait was without consideration,
and the acceptor might, notwithstanding tfi agreement,
have been sued the next instant; and that the understanding that interest should be paid by the acce.ptor, made no
difference. So, in Badnall v. Samuel, (3 Prtcels Exch.
Rep. 521.) in a suit by the holder against a prior endorser
of a bill of exchange, it was held, that a treaty for d. day
between the lholder and acceptor,,6pon terms which were
not finally accepted, did. not discharge the defendant, although an actual delay had taken place during the negotiation, because there was no binding contract which precluded
the plaintiffs from suing the acceptor at any time.
Upon authority, therefore, we are of opinion, that this
writ of error cannot be sustained, and that the judgment
below was right. Upon principle, we should entertain the
same opinion, as we think the whole reasoning upon which
the delay of the holder to enforce his rights against the
drawer is held to discharge the endorser after notice, is
founded upon the notion, that'the stipulation for delay suspends the present rights and remedies of th6 holder.
The judgment of the Court below is, therefore, affirmed.
with costs.
1827.

