UASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
)tates sue, wnere the matter in dispute, exclusive of costs.
1827.
,.o-.-amounts to the sum or value of 100 dollars.
Potte.
Now, it is not pretended that this is a civil cause of adV.
Gardner. miralty and maritime jurisdiction, and it has already been
shown, that there is no law of the United States, of impost
Or otherwise, to warrant the seizure of the teas in question.
or to subject them to forfeiture. But, even if there were
such a law, the only proceeding which could have been instituted under it, must have been, to forfeit the articles
seized, and not to subject them to the payment df duties. If
the case be not one of forfeiture, we can"perceive no grdund
upon which the Disrict Court could entertain a suit, by way
of libel, to enforce the payment of duties. No jurisdiction
is c~nferred upon that Court in such a case, either by the
above section of the Judiciary Act, or by any other act of
Congress. There is no doubt, but that a suit at'common law
might be instituted in that Court. as well as in the Circuit
Court, m the name of the United States, founded upon their
legal right to recover the possession of goods upon which
they have a lien for duties, or damages for the illegal taking
or detaining of the same. But the remedy which has been
selected, is not one which can obtain the sancti--n of this
Court.
Thv decree of the Circuit Court, reversing that of the District Court, and awarding restitution to the claimants, must
be affirmed.

1IMIS

E

OF LAIDS CHARGED WITH THZ PAYMEIIT OF DIETSo.

POTTER, Appellant, against GARDNER and others, Respon.

dents.
A devise. "I give and devise to my beloved son. E. W G., two
third parts of that my Ferrq Farm. so called," &c. "to him, the
said E. W. G., and to his heirs and assigns for ever, ie, my said

son E. W G. paying all my just debts out of said estate. And
I do hereby order, and it is my will, that my son E. W G. shall

OF THE UNITED STATES.
,,,%y
all myjust debts out of the estate hereoin given to him as aloresaid," creates a charge upon the estate in the hands of the devisee.
A bonafide purchaser, %ho pays the pus chase money to a persun authorized to sell, is not bound to look to its application, whether in
the case of lands chasged in the hands of an heir or devisee with
the payient of debts, or lands devised to a trustee for the payment

1827.
Potter
V.

Gardner

of debts.
But if the money be misapplied by the devisee or trustee, with the
co operation of the purchaser, he remains liable to the creditors
for the sum so misapplied.
On a bill filed by an executor against a devisee of lands charged witlh
the pqyient of debts, for an account of the trust fund, &Sc.the
creditors are not indispensable parties to the suit. The fund may
be brought into Court, and distribut"l tinder its direction, according to the rights of those who may apply for it.

THIS cause was argued by the Attorney General and Mr. Feb. td,
Potter for the appellant, and by Mr. Webster and Mr. D. B.
Ogden for the respondents.
Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the .F'b,91
Court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Court of the United Slates for the First Circuit in the District of Rhode
Island. The case was this:
On the 7th of July, 1817, Peleg Gardner made his last
will, in which, among other things, he devised as follows, "I
give and devise to my beloved son Ezekiel W. Gardner two
third parts of all that my ferry farm, so called," &c. "to
him the Paw Ezekiel W. Gardner, and to his heirs and as.
signs for ever, he, my said son Ezekiel W. Gardner, paying all
my just debts out of said estate. And I do hereby order, and
It is my will, that my son Ezekiel W Gardner shall pay all
my just debts out of the estate herein given to him as aforesaid." The testator gives to his wife, the plaintiff, Hannah,
a part of his real and personal estate for life, in lieu ofdower,
and to his daughter, the other plaintiff, other parts of his
real and personal estate.
Peleg Gardner died soon after the making of his will, and
ht. several dfi sees entered into the estates devised to them
respectively
On the 1,7th of July, 1818, the Court of Probates for the

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827. county, in pursuance of a statute made for that purpose, ap.\,r--% pointed commissioners to receive and examine the claims o.
Potter the creditors, who made a report orr the 10th day of July.
V.

1820, from which it appears that the deb-ts proved against
the estate and allowed. amouitt to g7593 14 cents, exclusive
of a claim of $ 1000 exhibited b) uire Mano. which was disallpwed, and for which a suit has been commenced against
the executrix.
The testator had devised the remaining third part of his
ferry estate to his daughter Isabel who had sold and conveyed the same to her brother Ezekiel. After which Ezekiel agreed to sell the whole estate to the appellant, Elisha
R. Potter, for the amiount of tl 5.000.
'This billis filed by the executrix and devisees of Peleg
Gardner, to subject the purchase money of the ferry estate
to the payment of the testator's debts. The decree of the
Circuit Court was in favour of the plaintiffs below; and
from that decree Elisha R. Potter has appealed to this
Court.
The bill contains many charges of fraudulent combination
between Ezekiel W. Gardner, and Elisha R. Potter, which
it-would be waste of time to review in detail, because they
are not sustained, and because the case rests on principles
of equity, which are believed to be well settled.
The first objection made to the decree is, that theplaintiffs have o right to ask the aid of a Court of equity, because
they cannot assert the claims of the creditors whocould
have proceeded at law against the estate in the hands of Ezekiel, and may now proceed at law against the remaining
estate of Peleg. That the plaintiffs can give no discharge
which will extinguish the rights of the creditors, and that the
creditors ought, for that reason, to have been made parties
to the suit.
The creditors The bill-states, and so is the fact. that tie whole estate of
norb1 disen-.Peleg Gardner, both ieal and personal, was disposed of by
his will, and, as the-ferry estate devised
to Ezekiel was the
fund provided for the paymenrof his debts, his devisees and
Itgai.es tbokildaiediaie possession of the property bequeathed to thein iespecively, and -nothing.remains in the bands
of the exectitrix wherewith to satisfy ti creditors. Tho
Gardner.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

501

1827.
bill also states, that Ezekiel W" Gardner is insolvent,, or i
very doubtful circumstances; that a considerable part of the
Potter
own
purchase money has been applied to the payment of his
debts,and that the plaintifif have cause to fear that the residue Gardner.
will be misapplied in the like manner, so that the whole trust
fund will be wasted, and the property bqqueathed to them
be taken by the creditort. These allegations are not controverted, and make, we think, a ver clear case for an application to a Court of equity. It is true, that the creditors
might have been made parties defendants, but we do not
think them parties who may not be dispensed with. So
much of the fund as yet remains may be brought into
Court, and may be distribuled according to the rights of those
who may apply for it. We have, then, no doubt of the jurisdiction of the Court.
charged
debtstestator'a
We have as little •doubt of the liability of the
- ferry es- The
tate while in the hands of Ezekiel, to the creditors of the upo the ferry
testator. The words of the will ( reate an express charge. e:tate in the
I give and devise to my beloved soi, Ezekiel W. Gardner, devlsee, Ezeand his heirs, for ever, two thirds of my ferry farm, he pay. -Is G.
ing all my just debts out of said estate." More expl;cit
words could not have been used. It is admitted by tc
counsel for the appellant, that these words would charge !he
estate in a country where the law did not previously charge
-it, but since, in Rhode Island, lands are liable, by law, to
the debts of the testator, the will superadds nothing to this
legal charge.
of the
It may be admitted, that, as between the devisee and the. Effect law
of
local
creditor, no charge is superadded by the will ; but the rela- Rhode Island
upo thed
created
tion of the devisees to each other is materially affected by-charge
it. A testator cannot,'by his will, withdraw from his cre- by the will.
ditors any property whicli the law subjects to their claims,
but he may provide a particular fund for his debts, and if
the creditors reqsort to a different fund, those to whom the
property so taken by them was given, are entitled to compensation out of the find provided for debts. Examples
of this principle abound in the books. Personal property
is universally liable for debts. If tfie particular fund provided by the testator for that object, be of that description.
-nd a specific thing, bequeathed to annther, be taken i exe-

UASES IN THE SUPREME .COUR't

187.

cution by a creditor, it has never been doubtea, that tht,
whose property has beet) taken, may resort to the
trust fund for compensation. The principle is too well set.

Slegatee

Potter
V.

tied to be now a subject for discui-sion. The law of Rhod
Island, then, subectin lands to the pai nient of debts. can
have no influence on the case before the Court. The ferry
estate, had'it remained in the possession of the dt visees.
would not only have been liable to the creditors, but would
have been liable to the other devisees and legatees, for
such portions of their property as had been applied in payment of the debts of the testator.
Question whe- What change has been made by the sale to Elisha R.
ther the estate'
9
xemamned so Potter
Although this question has been argued with great earnestcharged tn the
lands of the
ness, and at considerable length, scarcely any real diffbrenco
purchaser.
exists between the partes. The appeilecs seem to yield to
the authority of those modern decisions which deny the dis.
tinction between lands charged iii the hands of an heir, or
devisee, with the pay ment of debts,'and lands devised to a
tj..otee.for the payment of.debt-.. They admit, that, in
either case, the purchaser who pays the purchase money to
the person authorized i.o sell. is not bound to look to its apDlication. Baxt they contend, that if the purchase money
be misapplied with the co-operation of the purchaser, he remains liable to the'creditors for the sum so misapplied. The
-counsel for the appellants assent to this proposition. It is
scarcely necessary to say, that so much of the purchase money as remained unpoid when this suit was instituted, is liable to the creditors, and is applicable by the Court to the
purposes of the trust. What, then, is really in dispute between the parties? Nothing but the questions how much
of the purchase money remains unpaid, and how much of it
has been applied to .the debts of Ezekiel, with the co-operation of Mr. Potter.
The whole purchase made by Mr. Potter amounted to
15,800 dollars, of which 15,000 dollars were given for the
ferry estate, and 800 for a lot in Jamestown, purchased
by Ezekiel from his sister Isabel. One third of the ferry
estate -bad also been purchased by Ezekiel front Isabel, so
that 5.800 dollars ot the -whole.purehase money, was giver,
Gardner.

O1 THL UNITED ,j'rATLS

503

ior property not charged by the will of Peleg Gardner with 1827.
his debts, and the remaining 10,000 dollars for property
which was so charged. That sum constituted the trust Potter
V.
Gardner.
fund.
In the arrangement between the parties, Mr. Potter rethined 3,500 dollars for a debt due to him~elf, and paid
debts due from Ezekiel, to the amount, as stated in the answers, of 1,830 dollars, maki'ng, in the whole, 5,330 dollars.
On a subsequent agreement between the parties, Polter
paid a debt of Ezekiel, amounting to 800 dollars, so that
Potter has himself paid the debts of Ezekiel to the amount
of 0,330 dollars, being 330 dollars out of the trust fund.
J]is cash payments, at that time, are stated at 318 dollars
fi6 cents.
In June, 1820. the parties came to a settlement, when a
Talance of7,729 dollars 62 cents, was found to be i the hands
of Potter, bi "whicb lie says, he gave his note, payable.to order; in ga 'd mortgages in South Kingston, or in the State of
New-York; apd a w, ;tiable cash note, payable to the defendarnt's order, for 4000 dollars, on the .25th of .1. rch.
The cash paymcnts sm bd by the defendants, amount- to
1,318 dollars 64 cents. The residue of the purchase money
has either been applied by Potter himself to the payment of
Ezekiel's debts, or is coiiprehended in the note payable in
mortgages, or remains in his hands unaccounted for. In
either case, it is liable, so far as it exceeds the sum of 5,800
dollars. which is not charged by the will, to the creditors of
Peleg Gardner. Tins Court does not enter into minute
calculations to ascertain the precise sum due. An account.
if it be found necessary, comprehending the necessary calculations of interest, may be taken in the Circuit Court.
The note payable in mortgages is not alleged to be paid,
and, not being negotiable, would pass td an assignee, subject
to the equity which was attached to it when in the hands of
Ezekiel W. Gardner.
The defendant, Elisha R. Potter, has been stated to be
liable for the ddbts of Peleg Gardner, for so much of the
purchase money of the trust estate as remains in his hands.
So far he is liable directly and mmediatelv, and is properly

504
1827.
-Potter
V°

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
decreed to pay the money into Court. But, so far as hqhae
applied the money to the debts of Ezekiel, his r~sponsibility
is not, we think, imnediate' but depends on ie failure of

Gardner. Ezekiel to pay, the decree ought, in the first instance, to be
against Ezekiel, and, if the money cannot be obtained from
him, then against Elisha R. Potter.
No doubt exists of the right of any of the parties to contest the claim of any creditor. The report of the commissioiuers may be prmafacse,but is not conclusive evidence of
the claim. The creditor may ascertain his debt by a suit in
the State Court, or thq executrix may contest it in the Court
oj the United States. If Elisha R. Potter, or Ezekiel W.
Gardner, suppose the executrix to be ,unfaithful to her duty
in this respect, the Court will permit either of them to use
her name in opposition to the claim.
We are of opinion, that so much of the decree as may
subject Elisha R. Potter to the debts of Peleg Gardner, beyond the purchase money remaining in his hands, and beyond the money paid by him in diicharge of the debts of
Ezekiel W. Gardner, after deducting therefrom the amount
of the estates purchased by the said Ezekiel from his sister
Isabel, ought to be reversed, and that, in all other things, it
ought to be affirmed.
DECREE.
This cause came on, &c. On consioeration
whereof, this Couit is of opinion, that there is error in so
much of the decree of the said Circuit Court as subjects
Elisha R. Potter t9 the payment of a larger sum of money
than now remains in his hands of the original purchase money, added to the sum he has applied to the payment of the
debts of Ezekiel W Giardner, after deductingt therefrom
the amount given for the estates purchased from Isabel
Gardner; and in so much of the said decree as directs the
said Elisha R. Potter to pay the sums he has misapplied to
the debts of Ezekiel W. Gardner, and for which he, the
said Ezekiel, is liable in the first instance, before he, the
said Ezekiel, shah, have fail '1 to pay the same. It is,
thererore,-. the opinion of this Court, that so much of
the said -decree as is contrary to this opinion, be iEVERSED and ANNULLMD. and that the same be, in all other

OF THE UNITED STATES.

respects, AFPIRMED, and the cause is remanded to the said
Circuit Court, with directions to refoinm the said decree according to this opinion, and to do all other things therein as
equity and justice may require. In taking any account bVetween any of the parties which may be necessary for giving effect to this order, interest is to be computed according
to law'and usage.

505
1.827.
U. States
V.

Nicholh.

[SURETY.)

The

UNITED STATES

against NICeOLL.

The act ofiay 5ith, 1820, ch. 625. s. 9., which requires new soreties to be given by certain public officers on or before the 30th of
Scptember, 1820, does not expressly, or by implication, discharge
the former sureties from their liability.
The sureties are not responsible for moneys placed by the government in the hands of the principal, after the legal termination of
his office; but they are responsible for moneys which came into his
hands, while in office, and which he subsequently failed to account
for and pay over.
In general, laches is not imputable to the government: But, quare,
whether, in case there is an express a.reement between the government and te pr'Incipal,igiving time to the latter, and suspending
the right of the former to sub, the suretiesare not discharged as in a
similar case between private individuals 7
A mere proposition to give time, and suspend the right to sue, upoii
certain conditions and contingencies, which are not proved to have
been complied with, or to have happened, will not discharge the
sureties.
The cases of the United States v. Kirkpatrick, (9 Wheat. Rep. 720.)
and the United States v. Vanzandt, (11 Wheat. Rep. 184.) applied[
to the determination of the present case.

THIS cause was argued by the .flttorney General and Pe6, 2 Ml,
Mr. Sampson for the plaintiffs, and by Mr. D. B. Ogdez
for the defendant.

Mr. Justice TRIMBJarI delivered the opinion of th,. Cotsrt. Mar4 ,.'
S4
VoL. X1.

