OF THE UNITED STATES.
Although no adjudged cases directly applicable to the one
1827.
fta
before us have been found, we do not consider this decisioh .--as establishing any new principle in the law of insurance, but Brown
V.
as grounded on the application of principles already set- State of
Maryland.
fled. to a new combination of circumstances.
Judgment affirmed.

[CONSTITUTXONAL LAw.J
BRowN and Others, Plaintiffs in Error, against-The
oF MARYLAND, Defendant in Error.

STATE

An act of a State legislature, requiring all importers of foreig!r

goods by the bale or package, &c. and other persons selling the
same by wholesale, bale, or package, &c. to take out a license, for
which they shall pay 50 dollars, and in case of neglect or refusal'
to take out such license, subjecting them to certain forfeitures and
penalties, is repugnant to that provision of the constitution of the
United States, which declares, that " no State shall, without the

consent of (ongress, lay any impost, or duty on imports or oxports, except what may be .absolutely necessary for executing its
inspection laws;" and to that which declares that Congress shall
have power 1,to regulate commerce with foreign nations, among

the several States, and with the Indian tribes."
ERROR to the Court of Appeals of Maryland.
This was an indictment in the City Court of Baltimore,
against the plaintiffs in error, upon the second section of an
act of the legislature of the State of Maryland, passed in
1821, entitled, 'I An act supplementary to the act layingdu-ties on licenses to retailers of dry goods, and for other purposes." The second section of the act provides, " That
all importers of foreign articles, or commodities, of dry
goods, wares, or merchandises, by bail or package, or of
wine, rum, brandy, whiskey, and other distilled spirituouP
liquors, &c. and other persons selling the same by whnle-

420
1827.
Brown
V.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
sale, bale, or package, hogshead, barrel, or tierce, shall, before they are authorized to sell, take out a license as by the
original act is directed, for which they shall pay fifty dollars.

State of and in case of neglect or refusal to take out such license.
Maryland. shall be subject to the same penalties an I forfeitures as are
prescribed by the original act, to which this is a supplement." The penalties and forfeitures prescribed by the
original act, which was passed in 1819, were, a forfeiture oi
the amount of the license tax, and a fine of 100 dollars, to,
be recovered by indictment.
The defendants having demurred to the indictment. ajudgment was rendered upon the demurrer against them, ii,
the City Court, which was affirmed in the Court of Appeals.
and the case was brought, by writ of error, to this Court,
Feb. 28th.

Mr..fferedith, for the plaintifi in error, contended, tha,
the law in question was an unconstitutional exercise of the
taxing power of Maryland. lie did not deany the existence
of such a power. As a necessary incident to sovereignty,
it belonged to the several States before the adoption of the
constitution, and it still belongs to them, subject, however,
to the restrictions imposed upon. its exercise by the paramount authority of that instrument. With regard to these
restrictions, he did not. mean to contend. that the general
.grant contained in the eighth section of the first article oi
the constitution, vested in the natioiial government any
thing more than a coticurreut power of taxation. He admitted the rule- of construction, that a grant of power to
Congress does not, of itself, imply a prohiltion of its exercise by the States. The powe:rs granted to the general government are never to be considered as exclusive, unless
they are made so in express terums, or unless, from the nature of the power itself, its concurrent exercise must necessarily produce direct repugnancy or incon=patibility. But
he argued, that this was by no means the inevitable result
from a concurrelit exercise of the taxing power. becatise its
peculiar nature rendered it often capable ef being exercised
by different authorities at the same time, and even upon the
same subject, without actual collisibn or interference.
The restrictions which he had alluded to, were to be fountl

OF THE UNITED STATE.4

421

1827.
n other provisions of the constitution; and they were both
,,
in
comprised
express and implied. The former were all
Brown
are
States
the
which
by
article,
first
the
of
section
tenth
the
V.
prohibited, unless with the consent of Congress, from lay- State of
ing any imposts or duties on imports or exports, except blarylan4,
what may be absolutely necessary for executing their inspection laws, and'are, also, without such consent, forbid.
den to impose any duty upon tonnage. The effect of this
prohibition, coupled with the general grant of the taxing
power before referred to, is to vest in the national government an exclusive right to the commercial imposts of the
country. With the exception of these, however, the power
to lay and collect taxes is a concurrent power.
But, like all the other concurrent powers of the States.
this power of taxation is sub3ect, in its exercise, to that general implied restriction which necessarily results from the
supreme and paramount authority of the Union. This is a
vital principle of the political system, and its direct operation is to restrain the States from the exercise of any power
repugnant to, or incompatible with, the constitution, or the
constitutional laws of the national government. By which
is to be understood, not merely a repugnancy growing out
of a concurrent exercise, of the same power by Congress
and a State legislatuire, but that which may arise from the
exercise of one power by a State, with refitrence to a different power, whether exclusive or concurrent, express or
implied, residing in the general government.
Having stated and illustrated these as the constitutional
limits of the taxing power of the States, he insisted, tlat
they ha& been transgressed by the legislative act under consideration. The second section comprises all the provisions
of the law which are material to ,the question. The true
construction of this section is somewhat doubtful ; upon any
interpretation, however, it prohibits the importer from selling the imported merchandise without having first taken out
a license to do so, for which he is required to pay a stilulated tax.
The question then is, whether this is such a law as the legislature of Maryland have a rght to pass. Under colour of
a license law. he contended tbat tlns statute was a palr,bl,

422A
1827.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
evasion of the express restriction upon the States to "lay

%-v' ., duties on imports ;" an indirect attempt to do that which the

Brown
V.

constitution has explicitly inhibited.

And he said this, be-

State of cause he thought it might be clearly shown, that a law, layMaryland. ing a tax on the importer for the privilege of selling the merchandise he has himself imported, which is this law, and this
case, is equivalent, in all substantial respects, to a duty on
imports, since, with a few slight and unimportant differences.
it answers all the purposes, and produces all the effects of a
concurrent power in the States to impose such a duty.
What are the apparent differences between this and a tax
directly on imports ? It may be said, in the first place, that
the one is a tax for the privilege of bringing the foreign article
into the country, and the other a tax for the privilege of selling it after it is so brought in. But these privileges are indissolubly connected, the right to sell is a necessary incident to the right of importing. The grant of a privilege to
import would be of'no value, unless it implies a right to sell.
Prohibit ' sale, an importation necessarily ceases.
He
maintained that, on a fair and ,just cogstruction of the whole
revenue system, the implication was irresistible. That the
duties exacted by the general government were paid, not for
the privilege to import simply, but for the -privilege of importing foreign commodities, and using them in the way of
merchandise, might be incontestably proved, by showing
that no goods were dutiable, unless imported with the intention, and for the purpose of traffic. With this view, he referred to various provisions of the act of March, 1799, (ch.
128. s. 30. 32. 45, 46. 60. and 107.) and to the case of.
the Concord.a This is the principt, also, of the English
law of customs, from which our system is mainly borrowedV
It was likewise worthy of remark, that the legislation of Maryland, upon this subject, before the adoption of the constitution, was in strict accordance with the same principle,
and carried it so far as to permit the merchant to try the
market by an actual sale, and paying the duties only on the
-a 9 Cranch, 588.

See also 4 Cranch, 47.

b Hate on the Custoams, Pt. &ooh. 20. in Har,-r. Lato Tni.s, !II-

01 THE UNITED STATEz.

423

1827.
portion sold, to export the residue free of duty.a There is,
modes
then, no difference in this respect between these two
Brown
V.
of taxation.
of
tate
at
diffepayable
are
It may be said that these taxes
Maryland.
importation,
of
time
the
at
rent times; in the one case,
in the other, at the time of sale. But if they are both paid
substantially for the same privilege, surely this is not a material difference. It is a matter that simply concerns the
safety, certainty, and convenience of collection, but it gives
no distinctive character to the law. In point of fact, however, the duty imposed bythe revenue system is not payable,
except it is less than fifty dollars, until after the importation.
A third apparent difference may be said to consist in this:
that the import duty is a charge upon the goods, the license
upon the person; but the one is as much a charge upon the
goods as the other, if by that is meant an increase of their
actual cost. The import duty is, however, a personal charge
upon the importer; it is not the bond that alone makes him
personally liable; without having given a bond, he is still
answerable for the duties..
These are the only differences in the operation of the
two taxes, and they are apparent, but not substantial; they
are the disguise thrown about the law to elude detection.
The true test, however, is, to consider the effect of this law
upon the exclusive grant to the general .government, to raise
revenue from imposts. The reasons for such a grant are
obvious. The objects committedby theconstitution to the
general government are of immense magnitude, and require
correspondirng means. Of all species of taxation, that upon
imports is most fruitful and least oppressive. It is sound
policy, therefore, to cherish and extend this branch of the
public revenue, because, whenever it fails, other modes of
taxation must necessarily be resorted to of a more odious and
oppressive nature. Now, the consequence of the right
claimed by this law on'the part of Maryland, is, to place this
branch of the public revenue completely in her power; as
entirely so, as if she had constitutionally a concurrent right
a Hanson'sLaws of Maryland, Act of 1788, ch. 8. s. 84. Act of
1784, cli. 84. s. 5.
bi 1 Mason's Rep. 483.

424

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1827.
Brown
V.

to tax imports. Itis to enable her, at her pleasure, by means
of license laws, to annihilate, as it regards her own territory,
the commercial revenues of the country. What is to revent

State of her from prohibiting altogether the importation of foreign
aryland, merchandise into any of her ports ' It is only to increase the
price of the license until the commodity will no longer bear
the burden, and the eid is accomplished. Importation must,
in that case, necessarily cease, and with it revenue. It is
not pretended that these consequences are produced by this
particular law, it is not necessary that this should be the
case. We are not to look at the particular exercise of power
so much as at the principle upon which the power is assert
ed. We are not to judge of the constitutionality of this law
by the amount of tax which it imposes ; it is not the degree
of taxation, in the particular instance, that determines the
right to tax. That the public revenue is, to a certain degree, affected by the operation of this law, is incontestable.
But if, on principle, Maryland has a right to demand
fifty dollars as the price of a license to sell imported
merchandise, she has a right to demand* any sum for the
same peivilege. If, in other words, she is within the proper sphere of her taxing power, that po:er is, in its nature, unlimitet, and she may carry it to what extent she
pleases. A power to tax, this Court has emphatically said,
is a power to destroy. In this case, it is a power to probibit, a power to deprive the government of the means to accomplish its great objects, and conduct all its important operations ; a power to defeat the intention of the exclusive
grant of commercial revenue.
If Maryland has a right to enact laws of this description,
she has a right to regulate her own foreign commerce, although, by the constitution, it is exclusively vested in Congress. The imposition of import duties is often resorted to,
not for the purpose of revenue, but to regulate commercial
intercourse with foreign countries. Discriminating duties,
protecting duties, prohibitory duties, are so many commercial regulations. These may all be resorted to under the
disguise of license laws. If Maryland has a right to pass
general license laws, she may pass partial ones; she may
select particular commodities, and burthen their sale with a
license duty ; she way establish a tariff of discriminatin.g

OF THE UNITED STATES.
uuies for herself, and affect, if not defeat, the commercial
1827.
policy of the country. In one word, she may exercise the
same right to regulate commerce by means of license laws, Brown
V.
which a concurrent power to tax imports would give her, Stat of
and thus evade. in this respect also. the constitutional pro- Maryland.
hibition. It may be said, that this law looks to no such ob.3ect; that it is simply a tax for.revenue, and that there is no
ground to apprehend that it will be used for any other purpose. But the motives for legislative acts are not fit subjects of judicial inquiry. If the power can be exercised for
one purpose, it may be for another; the intention may always be effectually concealed. It is the principle of the
law, and its capacity to be exerted for the attainment of
other objects than that which it professes to aim at in
the particular case, that it is proper and necessary to look
to. If the States arq authorized to pass laws of this description, the purposes which 'induced the prohibition are
defeated, and it is rendered altogether nugatory
Mr. Taney and Mr. Johnson, contra, insisted, that the
law of Maryland did not lay a duty on importsi and was
not repugnant to the constitution of the United States.
The act of assembly (they said) does not impose a tax
on the importation of foreign goods, nor upon the trade and
occupation of an importer. But the tax is imposed upon
the trade and occupation of selling foreign goods by whofesale after they have been imported. It is a tax upon the
profession or trade of the party, when that trade is cameil
on within the State. It is laid upon the same principle with
the usual taxes on retailers, or innkeepers, or hawkers and
pedlars, or upon any other trade exercised within the State.
it is true. the importers of foreign goods are, by express
words, made subject to the provisions of this law, provided
they sell by wholesale; but it is the ;elling 'by wholesale
which subjects the party to the tax; it is upon that trade
that the tax is imposed.
Does tt'"constitution of the United States forbid Maryland to impose such a tax 9 This is the only question presented by The redord.
Vor,. -TL.
54

GASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.

The plaintiffs in error insist, that the tax in question is
a duty on imports, and violates that clause in the
constitution which declares that a State shall not lay duties

Svirtually

Brown
V.

State of on imports.
Maryland.
We answer, it is not, either directly or indirectly, a
duty on imports. A duty on imports is a tribute paid to
the sovereignty of the country fo" permission .to introduce
foreign goods. To import, and to bring in, mean the same
thing.a A duty on imports is, therefore, a duty on the
bringing in. of foreign goods-on the act of importation.
The duty is paid for the permission to introduce them; it
is the consideration given for that privilege. The party
buys the right to introduce the goods into tbr United-States,
and to place them' under the protection of the laws of the
country. He becomes liable to the whole duty by the very
act of importation; and the amount "isthe same, whethjer
he proposes to sell the goods, or to keep them for his own
use, or to give them as a present to another.
After the goods have been brought into a State, the- im.
porter has one peculiar relation to them by reason of his
being the importer. He is known to the State law&in the
character of owner, or as the party entitled to the custody
of the goods..and he receives the same degree of protection
whether he be the importer or not the importer. The property, when it has passed through the custom houses, is no
longer under,the exclusive protection of the United States.
It is guarded by the laws of the State-must be transferred
and otherwise dealt with, according to the laws of the State.
It is, therefore, imported, or brought in, and the act of imIf, therefore, a duty oik imports
portation is completed.
means a duty on the act of importation, or the permission
to introduce, it is very clear, that the law in question- is
not, directly or indirectly, a duty on imports.
But, it is said, that the word "imjorts," as used in the
constitution of the United States, does not mean tmporta.
:zon, but means the goods imported.
If this interpretation be right, then the constitution of the
a Act of March % 1790. oh. I28.

R p. 246.

1 Mason's Rep. 499. 4 YF7heat.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
United States must be expounded as if it bad said, ".o
State shall, without the consent of Congress, lay any,imposts
or duties on goods imported." And if such be the true
reading of the constitution, then no State can lay a tax
upon any article of property which was imported from a
foreign country. 'According to this construction, imported
plate, imported furniture, imported property of every kind,
would be privileged property, and exempt from taxation by
the States. For, if the word "1imports," as used in the
constitution, means "goods imported," or "imported
goods," then the States, without the permission of Congress,
cannot tax property within their dominion, and owned .by
their citizens, provided that property has been introduced
from abroad. Such would be the inevitable consequence
of expounding.the word imports as if the words " imported
goods" had been used. The ubiform practice of the
States )the principles of justice, the interests of the community, are all directly opposed to this construction.
But, itis said, that if " imports" means importation, and
not the goods imported, yet the privilege of selling is inseparably incident to the importation, and is always implied
in the privilege to import. This argument, like the one
last replied to, will be found to prove too much, and to lead
to results that can hardly be acquiesced in.
The right to import foreign goods is derived from the
United States. The duties are imposed by the federal government, and are paid to that sovereignty. The permission tojmport is conferred by that government, and if the.
right to sell is implied in the permission to import, then the
right to sell is derived from the United States, and becomes
an absolute and vested right in the importer as soon as he
acquires the priviliege $ofintroducing the goods; that is, as
soon as he pays the duties, or secures them, according to
the acts of Congress. And if the right to sell is a.vested
right, derived from the general -overnment, then this right
ca,..not be limited, restrained, regulated, or in any manner
afihbrted by State legislation. The importer, .then, having
an absolute and unconditional right to sell, may sell in any
place, and in any manner he thinks proper. He may.offer
for sale large quantities of gunpowder in the heart of a city.

1827.
%av-J'
Brown
State.of

Mfarylan&

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
and thus endanger the lives of the citizens; he may offier
hdes, fish, and articles of that description, in places oftensive and inconvenient to the public, and dangerous to the
Brown
V.
State of health of the citizens, he may hold an auction at his own
Maryland. warehouse, and refuse to pay any tax to the State, he may
sell at retail; he may sell as a hawker and pedlar ; and the
laws of the States which impose taxes on these trades, are
imconstitutional and void, so far as the importer is concerned. These taxes have been always imposed by some of the
States, and their right to derive a revenue from these
sources has never before been questioned.
It may be said, that the right of the-importer to sell, is ht
right to sell by wholesale only, and not by auction, or by
retail. If, however, the right exists at all, it cannot be limited to sales by wholesale. It is said- to be incident to the
permission to import, and if it be annexed to that permission,.then it must be an absolute and unconditional right.
for where can we find the qualificatio' 9 If the States are
disabled from imposing a tax on the sales of foreign merchandise, when made by the bale or package, why are they
not equally unable to impose a tax on the sales of such
goods when made by-auction, or retail, or in any other man1827.

ner?

The, coQstitution gives no peculiar privilege to any-

particular mode of sale; and this Court, in expounding the
instrument, will not introduce into it new limitations, and
new divisions of power, not implied by its words.
In fine, the importer, by the payment of the duties, either
acquires the right to sell, as well as the. right-to introduce
the goods, or he acquires the right to bring in merely. In
the first case, his right to sell would be beyond the reach of
State control, and State regulation. In the second case,
the goods would be subject to the laws and authority of the
-State. It can hardly be held, that an importer may sell in
any place, and in any Tanner he pleases; and if he may
not, it is because the disposition of the goods is subject to
the regulations of the State authorities, and if they are so
subjects they are, consequently, liable to such burthens as
the State may impose on any particular mode of sale or
transfer; and, therefore, liable to the tax in question.
The cases cited of goods wrecked on our shores. can

OF THE UNITED STATEb.
1827.
hardly be supposed to bear on this argument. To import,
implies an act of the will, a voluntary introduction of the
goods. Besides, in those cdses, the question is, are the Brown
goods liable to p~y duty 9 not what rights will the payment state of
9
And when the questions are so difl'e- Maryland.
of the duty procure
rent, it is not perceived how a decision of the one can in
any degree affect the other.
But, it is insisteu, on the other side, that if the law in.
-uestion be not repugnant to that clause in the constitution
which forbids a State to lay a duty on imports, yet it is in
violation df that clause which gives Congress the power to
regulate commerce with foreign nations. It must be observed, that this argument admits, argumenti gratia, that
the tax in question is not, either directly or indirectly,
a duty on imports. But the plaintiffs in error contend, that
although it be not a duty on imports, still the tax in question
is forbidden by the constitution of the United States. In
other words, they maintain, that the tenth section in the
constitution of the United States is not the only one which
limits the taxing power of the States , and that this power is
still further curtailed by the clause which gives Congress the
power to regulate commerce.
It has been settled by the decisions of this Court, that
the grant of a power to Congress, does not extinguish the
right of the States to legislate on the same subject, unless
Congress exercises the power grantedi And. when the
power is exercised, the States may yet legislate, if the whole
ground of legislation has not been covered' by the laws of
the United States, provided the State law be not repugnant
to'that of the federal government. Assuming these principles as settled, it wouldbe asufficient answer to this argument
to say, that no law of Congress gi'.es; or professes to give to
the importer, the right to sell: The revenue laws referred
to, charge duties in certain cases, where sales may be made.
The laws are framed op the assumption that certain foreign
goods will be permitted'to be sold; but these laws do not
give that permission generally, nor point out in what mode
they may be sold. If, thereforei under this power to regulate commerce, Congress may give the importer a right to
sell, yet the right is not given; and until it-is given by Con-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
gress, the States may regulate and tax the sales without violating the constitution of he United States.
But tins clause in the constitution does not give to- ConBrown
y.
-State of gress the power contended for. By the constitution, of the
liaryland. United States, the power oftaxation by the States is restrained, by express words, in certain cases.
It has always been supposed, that theseJimitations of State
sovereignty, iji matters of revenue, so carefully and particularly set down, excluded all inference and implication, and
left with the States all the -powers of taxation not expressly
denied to them in the restraining section. It is very clear,
that the -men who framed -the constitution, and the people
who adopted the constitution, so understood it. The Federalistmust be considered as expressing the opinions of the
friends of the federal constitution, both in and out of the
Convention; and in No. 33, and near the conclusion of that
number, the commentary on the subject of the taxing power
is thus concluded: "The inference from the whole is, that
the individual States would, under the proposed constitution,
retain an independent and uncontrollable authority,to raise
revenue to any extent of which they may stand in need, by
every knd of taxation, except duties on imports and exports.'
And, throughout No. 32 and No. 33 of the Federalist, the
same principle is repeatedly assert^d as a clear and indisputable one.
But, if Congress, under the power to regulate commerce,
may authorize the. importer to sell, then certain important
powers of taxation, besides duties on imports and exports,
have been surrendered by the States. For if Congress may
give by law to the importer the~right to sell, Congress may
direct how the sale-may be made, or may allow the importer.to elect any mode he pleases; and, whenever this shall,
be done by.the general' government, the power of the States
to regulate such sales is at an end, and, consequenuy, their
power of taxation also. Ifthisargument, then, be sustained by
the Court, the authority of the, States to regulate and
t6 tax auctioneers and retailers is not "an independent and
uncontrollable authorit.y," as was supposed by the distinguished writers in the Federaljt, but is a mere dependent
authority, and liable to the control of Congress, so far as fo1827.

% v'.,,
-.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
'eign goods are concerned. Congress, it is said, may.give 1827.
the importer the right to sell. If Congress may do so, then
/
the States cannot tax any mode of sale which Congress may Brown
please to permit. Such powers were surely too important State of
and valuable to have been surrendered in this loose and slo- Maryland.
vealy manner. If they were to have been given up by the
States, they would have been given up in express terms,
like the duties on imports, and not by vague and uncertain
inferences. Besides, if Congress may give the right to sell
in any manner, they may also give the right to sell in any
place ; and the police laws of the different States, made for
their safety or health, exist only by the permission of Congress. And again, if Congress may not only prescribe the
terms upon which foreign goods may be introduced into the
country, but may direct how they shall be sold, and thus
exempt the sales from State taxation, why may not Congress, upon the same principle, exempt all foreign goods
from taxation by the States 9 If Congress may exercise exclusive dominion over foreign goods. for one purpose, after
they have been brought into a State, why may not the same
exclusive power be exercised for any other purpose 9 Reasons of policy might, indeed, make a difference; but we are
not now discussing the policy of introducing new provisions
into the constitution, but endeavouring to ascertain the
meaning of the words used i the instrunent.
The last-argument urged in behalf of the plaintiff in error,
is founded on the supposed policy and objects of the constitution, rather than on the interpretation of any words usea
in the instrument itself. It is said, that if a State may impose the tax in question, it may increase it to any amount,
and by that means the 'ztates may prevent importations altogether. And. hence it is inferred, that a power capable of
being so much abused, was not intended to have been left
with the States.
Nothing can be more fallacious than to urge the possible
abuse of power by the States, for the'Furpose of proving that
the power has been taken away. Such an argument goes to
the destruction of all State power. Such a principle of construction would put an end to all State authority; for all
power may possibly be abused. The States cannot and

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.
to-vw

ought not to be deemed-more liable than'the federal govern.
mert to abuse-the powers confided to them by the people;
nor can any supposed and merely possible inconvenience,

Brown
V.
State of which might-arise from an improper use of State powet', furMaryland. ish a ground for.deciding against the existence ofthe power;
We must be-continually liablb to this inconvenience froij
the complex character of our government. -In the Federalst, No. 32, the rule of constrxction is thus stated: "It is
iiot a'mere possibility of. inconvenience in the exercise of
powers, but an immediate and constitutional repugnancy, that
can, by4inplication, alienate and extinguish a pre-existing
The possibility of inconvenience
right bf sovereigntyv"
-from the improper 6se of this power by the States, is not,
therefore, any argument against the existence of this power.
It eannot, by implication, alienate and extinguish the
brwer for whtchwe are contending.
But, indeed. it is impossible. that the power to lay the tax
in question, cair ldaA to any inconvenience, or can be used
tb -embarrass the regulations, oi lessen the -revenue of the
federal government. if.the tax on wholesale dealers should
be so heavy as to prevent importations, the people of the
"State will be the principal sufferers. Jf it enhances the
rice of iihported goods the burthen is at least as heavy ort
e people of the State as it is on the citizens of otherStat5,
and this furnishes abundait security that no such tax will
over be vexatiously laid. 'The people of a State cannot.be
justly sus'pected'6fimposing heavy burthens upon themselves;
for the purpose Qf thwarting: or embarrassingthe general govefnment. If, indeed, the peoplle ofa State could be guilty
of suc folly,. hey.-mightby. Pounties and other facilities to
manufacturers'in their own State, effectually- pevent the
importation of foreign joods. Nobody would deny that the
States possess this powet's but nobody suspocts-thfam. of being disposed to abuse it.
There is; indeed, no real danger.of serious incbnveniebce
The good iense andgoodfrom these 'onflictiogpowers.
-feelings of the people will always apply the, remedy; and
we may safely con'fide, that the'State governments; and the
general government, will never embark in the unprofitable
contestoftryingwluch shaldco ach otheirthemostharm. Bul

OF THE UNITED STATES.

14331

4f such a state of things should ever tqke place, it would
1827.
matter very little how the boundaries of power had been
marlked out by judicial decision. The Union cannot be Brown
V.
preserved by the mere strength and power of the federal State of
government. It is dissolved as soon as it shall forfeit the Marvlant
affection and confidence of the States.
The .4ttorney General, for the plaintiffs in error, id-reply.
stated the question to be, whether a State law, which rendered it criminal to import and sell foreign goods, without
the permission of the State, which peri .isszon was only to
be obtained by paying a tax to the State, was repugnant to
the constitution, laws, and treaties of the Union. If the
State of Maryland had the power to lay such a restraint on
the importation and sale of foreign goods, every other State
must have the same power, and-the consequence would be,
that this power of taxation would diretly interfere, both,
with the power of regulating commerce, and with the taxing power of Congress. The quantum of tax imposed by
the State could make no difference. The same priiciple
would apply, as in the attempt of the same State to tax the
Bank of the United States, where the Court held, that a
power to tax, was a power to tax limited only by the pleasure of the State; and that it was, :therefore, a power, to
destroy.4
In the present case, the power was denied upon two
grounds; first, because the power exerted by the law in
question is that of regulating commerce with foreign nations, and among the several States, which the Court bar
determined to be exclusively vested m Congress. 6 -Secondly, because it was tbat of laying an impost, or duty on imports, without the consent of Congress.
In order to determiue whether the presentlaw interferea
with the exercise of the power of regulating commerce, it
was only necessary to see vihether it undertook to prescribe
the terms on whicb commerce may be carried on with £a M'Culloch v. Maryland, 4 iffYeat. Rep. 516.
b Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. Rep. 1.
Vor.. XT.T.
55

CASES iN THE .SUPREME COUR'T
1827.
v
Brown

reign nations, and among the States. If it were a power to
prescribe those terms, it was a power to prescribe the wholc
terms. After Congress, in the exercise of its exclusive

V.

State of power, has prescribed certain terms, it is incompetent for
1arvland- the States to add other terms. Could thete be any doubt
that the exclusive power of regulating foreign commerce
included that of prescribing to all the citizens of the Union
the conditions, and the whole conditions, on which they
shall be permitted to bring into the 'Umted States. for sale
or consumption, the productions of foreign countries 9 Tins
power does not stop with the permission to bring them in.
for if the States may prohibit their sale, or restrain, or burthen it, in any mode, they may, in effect, prohibit their im
portation. If they may prevent their sale, th-ey may proh,.
bit their barter or exchange, or use and consumption in the
country, in any and every mode, and tu efibtually defeat the beneficial exercise of the permission to import
The States might even confiscate the goods, or order theni
to be burnt and destroyed after they were landed, and this
would no more interfere with the right of importation, according to the opposite argument, than the law now in queslion. And, it was asked, whether the sagacious statesmen
who framed the constitution meant to confer upon Congress
a power so idle and illusory ' They looked to the exercise
of this power of regulatiug.commerce as a great source of
national wealth and aggrandizement.a They looked to it
as a great means of developing the agricultural and manufacturing resources of the country, and its general industry;
as an instrument by which the nation should be enriched at
home, and rendered capable of countervailing the commercial regulations of foreign and rival nations. But if. the
power of regulating commerce ceases on the landing of
1he goods, and the whole subject is then delivered over to
the discretion of the respective States, with their various
partial and discordant views of policy, its exclusive exercise
by Congress will be utterly vain and useless. So that the
very existence of that commerce, a power of regulating
and preserving which is .so studiously conferred on ConThe F'ederalist. No. I .

OF THE JNITED STATES.
gress, is at last made to depend upon the caprice and plea- 1827.
-'
sure of the States. What signifies the power of regulation,
Brown
thing
of
the
substance
the
very
destroy
if the Statesvnay
V.
to be regulated 9 Uniformity, or permanency of regulation, State oir
with a view to aity purpose of policy, in regard to the agn- Maryland
cultural, manufacturing, or commercial interests of the no,tion, is, of course, as much out of the question, as if there.
were no Unon, or as if it were still infected with all the
debility of the former confederation. The same State
power, exercised upon short sighted and narrow views.
might be exerted so as to defeat the other branch of the
power, that of regulating commerce among the States. The
free intercommunication which now prevails between the
States, may be effectually checked, by requiring a similar
license to import into a particular State the productions of
other States. So, also, what the State may do as to imports,
it may do ps to exports. It may require a license from the
exporting merchant, and thus, in'effect, lay a duty on exports. although both the States and Congress are expressly
forbidden in the constitution from laying such a duty ; and
the whole power of regulating the commerce, both of exports and imports, is exclusively vested in Congress. By
the joint exercise of these two usurped powers, the State
may establish a total non-intercourse with other States, and
with foreign nations, in direct violation of the laws, and
treaties, and constitution of the Union. Or it may make a
discrimination among foreign nations, or among the different
States, with a view-of discouraging their commerce, or of
encouraging some branch of its own internal industry, iii
direct repugnancy to the policy of the Umon, as exhibited
in its laws and treaties. One of the avowed objects for conferring the power of regulating commerce upon Congress,
was that of raising a revenue for the support of the nationat
government. It was foreseen, that the prosperity of commerce would best be promotpd by uniform regulations con.
tamed in the laws and treaties of the Union; and it was
also foreseen, that an impost was that species of taxation
Ifest suited to the genius and habits of the Amierican people.,,
2 TheFederalist,l.

12.

CA&$S IN THE SUPREME COUIL'VI
But if the power now.n question may be exercised by une
SState, it may be exercised by all; and the principal source
from which ie revenues of the Union were to be derived,
BrownV.
State of wilf be dried up, or diverted to local purposes. In short, it
Alaryland. was insisted, that all the evils for which the constitution was
intended to provide an efe-ctual remedy, would be entailed
upon the country, by confirming the validity of such State
laws'as the act now in question.
1827.

March lth.

Mr. Chief Justice

MARSHALL

delivered the opinion o1

the Court.
This is a writ of error to a judgment rendered in the Court
of Appeals of Maryland, affirming a judgment of the City
Court of Baltimore, on an indictment found in that Court
against the plaintiffs in error, for violating an act of the le..
gislature.of Maryland. The indictment was founded on the
second section of that act, which is in these words: "And
be it enacted, that all importers of'foreign articles or commodities, of dry goods, wares, or mei:chandise, by bale or
package, or of wine, rum, brandy, whiskey.and other distilled spiritous liquors, &c. and -other persons selling the
same by wholesale, bale or package, hogshead, barrel,,
or tierce, shall, before they are authorized to sell, take
out a license, as by the original act is directed, for which
they shall pay fifty dollars, and in case of neglett or refusal to take out such license, shall be subject to the-same
penalties and- forfiiitures as are prescribed by the original act to which this is a supplement." The indictment
charges the plaintiffs in"error with having- imported and
sold one package of foreign dry goods without having
license to do so. A judgment was rendered against them on
demurrer for the penalty which the act prescribes- for the
offence; and that judgment is now before this Court.
, The cause depends entirely on the question, whether the
legislature of a State can constitutionally requirethe importer
of foreign articles to take out a license from the State, before he shall be permitted to sell a bale or package so imported.'
It has been truly said, that the presumption is in favour
ofeverylegislatife act, and that the whole burthen ofproof
lies on him who denies its constitutionality. The plainti .-

OF THE UNITED' STATES.

437

in error take the burthen upon themselves, and insist that 1827.
the act under consideration is repugnant to two provisions *.'vBrown
in the constitution of the United States.
1. To that which declares that "no State shall, without State of
the consent of Congress, lay any imposts, or duties on im- Maryland.
ports or exports, except what may be absolutely necessary
for executing its inspection laws."
2. To that which declares that Congress shall have power
"to regulate commerce with foreign nations, and among the
several States, and with the Indian tribes."
1. The first inquiry is into the extent of the prohibition Question as to
the validity of
t o
iUpon States "to lay any imposts or duties on imports or ex- the law, inreto the
ports." The counsel for the State of Maryland wouldcon- spect
clause prohithe
fine this prohibition to laws imposing duties on the act Ofbiting
importation or exportation. The counsel for the plaintifs Slates from
layingimposts,

or duties
in error give them a much wider scope.
In performing the delicate and important duty of constru-imports.
ing clauses in the.constitution of our country, which involve
conflicting powers of the 'government of the Union., ahd of
the respective States, it is proper to take a view of the literal meaning ofthe words to be expounded, of their connexion
with other words, and of the general objects to be accomplished by the prohibitory clause,' or by the grant of power.
What, then, is the meaning of the words, "imposts, or duties on imports. or exports 9')
An impost, or 4uty on imports, is a custom or a tax levied
on articles brought into a country, and is most usually secured before the importer is allowed to exercise his rights of
ownership over them, because evasions of the law can be
prevented more certainly by executing it while the articles
are in its custody. It would not, however, -beless an impost
or duty on the articles, if it were to be levied on them after
they were landed. The policy and consequent practice ofle:
vying or securing the duty before, or on entering the port, does
not limit the power to that state of things, nor, consequently,
the prohibition, unless the true meaning of the clause so
confines it. What,. then, are "imports 9" The lexicons inform us, they are "things imported.7) If we appeal to usage
for the meaning. of the word, we shall receive the same answer. They are the articles themselves which are brought
info the counti. "A duty onimports." then, is not merely

oit

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.
'imported.

Brown
V.

a duty on the act of importation, but is a duty on the thing
It is not, taken in its literal sense, confihed to a
duty levied while the article is entering-the country, but ex-

State of tends to a,duty levied after :has entered the country. The
Maryland. succeeding words of the sentence vhich limit the prohibition, show the extent in which it was understood; The limitation is, "except what may be absolutely necessary for executing its inspection laws." 'Now, the inspection laws, so
far as they act upon article . for exportation, are generally
executed on land, before the article is put on board the vessel; so far as they act upon importations, they are generally
executed upon articles which are linded. The tax or duty
of inspection, then, is a tax which is frequently, if not always
paid for service performed on land, while the article is in
the bosom of the country. Yet this tax is an exception to
the prohibition on the Stateq to lay duties on imports or exports. The exception was made because the tax would
otherwise have been within the prohibition.
If it be a rule of interpretation to which all assent, that the
exception of a particular thing from general words, proves
that, in the opinion of the lawgiver, the thing excepted
would be within the general clause had the exception r *
been made,, we know no reason why this general rule shotfl
not be as applicable to the constitution as to other instruments. If it be applicable, then this exception in favour of
duties for the support'of inspection'laws, goes farm proving
that the framers of the constitution classed taxes of a similar
character with those imposed for the purposes of inspection,
with-duties on imports and exports, ,and supposed them to
be prohibited.
If we quit this narrow view of the subject, and passingfrom
the literal interpretation of the words, look to the objects ofthe prohibition, we find no reason for withdrawing the act
under consideration from its operation.
From the vast inequality between the difrerent States of
the confederacy, as to commercial advantages, few subjects
were viewed with deeper interest, or excited more irrlta'tion.
tha' the manner in which the several States exercisdd, or
seemed disposed to exercise, the power of laying duties on
imports. From motives which were dedmed sufficient by

OF THE UNITED STATES.

439

182.
(he statesmen of that day, the general power of taxation, indispensably necessary as it was, and jealous as the Stateswere
of any encroachment on it, was so far abridged a- to forbid Brown
them to touch imports or exports, with the single exception State of
which hasr been noticed. Why are they restrained from in- Maryland.
posing these duties 9 Plainly, because,' in the general opinion, the interest of all would be best promoted by placing
that whole subject under the control of Congress. Whether
the prohibition to "'lay imposts, or duties on imports or exports,"1 proceeded from an apprehension that the power
night be so exercised as to disturb that equality among the
States which wasgenerally advantageous, or that harmony
between them which it was desirable to preserve, or to maintain unimpaired our Commercial connexions with foreion
nations, or to confer this source of revenue on the government of the Union, or whatever other motive might have induced the prohibition, it is plain, that the object would be
as completely defeated by a power to tax the article in the
hands of the importer the ihstant it was landed, as by a power
to tax it while entering the port. There is no diffierence,
in effect, between a-power to prohibit the sale of an article,
and a power to prohibit its introduction into the country.
The one would be a necessary consequence of the other.
No goods would be imported if none could be sold. No,
object of any description can be accomplished by laying a
duty on importation, which may not be accoiplished with
equal certainty by laying a duty on the thing imported in
the hands of the importer. It is obvious, that the same
power which imposes a light duty, can impose a very heavy
one, one which amounts to a prohibition. Questions of
power do not depend on the degree to which if may be exercised. If it may be exercised at all, it must be exercised
a the will of those in whose hands it is placed. If thetax
may be levied in this form by a State, it may be levied to. an
extent which will defeat the revenue by impost, so far as it
is drawn *from importations into the particular State. We
are told, that such wild and irrational abuse of power is not
to be apprehended, and is not to be taken into view when
discussing its existence. All power may be abused; and if
the fear of its abuse is to constittte an argument against its

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

440
1827.
,,
Bkown
V.

existence, it might be- urged against the existence of that
which is universally acknowledged, and which is indispensable to the general safety. The States will never be so mad

State of as to destroy their own commerce, or even to lessen it.
We do not dissent from these general propositions. We
Maryland.
do not suppose any State would act so unwisely. But we
do not place the question on that ground.
These arguments apply with precisely the same force
against the wahole prohibition. - It-might, with the same reason be said, that no State would be so blind to its own interests as to lay duties on importation which would either
prohibit or diminish its trade. Yet the framers ofeour constitution have thought this a power which no State ought to
exercise. Conceding, to the full extent which is required,
that every State would, in its legislation on this subject, providejudiciously for its own interests, it cannot be conceded,
that each would respect the interests of others. A duty on
imports is a tax on the article which is paid by the consumer. The great importing States would thus levy a tax
on-the non.importin& States, which would not be less a tax
'because- their interest would afford ample security against
its-ever being so heavy as to expel commerce from their
ports... This wouldnecessarily produce countervailing mea'sures on the part of those States whose situation was less favourable to importation. For this, among other reasons,
the whole power of laying duties on imports was, with a
single and slight exception, taken from the States. When
We are inquiring whether a particular act is within this prohibition, the question is not, whether the State may so legislate as to hurt itself, but whether the act is within the words
and mischief of the prohibitory clause. It has already been
shown, that a tax on the article in the bands of the importer,
is within its words ; and we think it too ciear for controversy, that the same tax is within its mischief. We think it
unquestionable, that such a tax has precisely the same ten-dency to enhance the price of the article, as if imposed
wulon it while entering.the port.
The counsel for the State of Maryland insist, with great
reason, that if the words of the prohibition be taken in their
tutmost latitude. they will abridge the power of taxation.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
18827.
which all admit to be essential to the States, to an extent
which has never yet been suspected, and will deprive them %.v
Y.
of resources which are necessary to supply revenue, and !rown
which they have heretofore been admitted to possess. These State of
words must, therefore, be construed with some limitation; Maryland.
and, if this be admitted, they insist, that entering the country is the point of time when the prohibition ceases, and
the power of the State to tax commences.
It may be conceded, that the words of the prohibition
ought not to be pressed to their utmost extent, that in our
complex system, the object of the powers conferred on the
government of the Union, and the nature of the often conflicting powers which remain in the State4, must' always be
taken into view, and may aid in expounding the words of
any particular clause. But, wfiile we admit that sound
principles of construction ought to restrain all Courts from
carrying the words of the prohibition beyond the object the
constitution is intended to secure; that there must be a point
of time when the prohibition ceases, and the power of the
State to tax commences , we cannot admit that this point of
time is the instant that the articles enter the country. It is,
we think, obvious, that this construction would defeat he
prohibition.
The constitutional prohibition on the States to lay a duty
on imports, a prohibition which a vast majority of them
must feel an interest in preserving, may certainly come in
conflict with their acknowledged power to tax persons and
property within their territory. The power, and the restriction on it, though quite distinguishable when they do
not approach each other, may yet, like the intervening colours between white and black, approach so nearly as to
perplex.the understanding, as colours perplex the vision in
marking the distinction between them. Yet the distinction
exists, and must be marked as the cases arise. Till, they
do arise, it might be premature to state any rule Is being
universal in its application. It is sufficient for the present
to say, generally, that when the importer has so acted upon
the thing imported, that it has become. incorporated an4
mixed up with the mass of property in the country, it -ba
56
VoL. XIL

iASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
perhaps, lost its distinctive character as an import, aud has
subject to the taxing power of the State ; but while
remaining the property of the importer, in his warehouse,
State of in the original form or. package in which it was imported, a
Maryland. tax upon it is too plainly a duty on imports to escape the
prohibition in the constitution.
The counsel for the plaintiffs in error contend, that the
importer purchases. by payment of the duty to the United
States, a right to dispose of his merchandise, as well as to
bring it into the country; and certainly the argument is supported by strong reason, as well as by the practice of nations, including our own. The object of imnportation is
',ale, it constitutes the motive for paying the duties , and if
the Unite4 States possess the power of conferring the right
to sell, as. the consideration for which the duty is paid, every
principle of fgir dealing requires that they should be underttood to confer it. The practice of the most commercial
nations conforms to this idea. Duties, according to that
practice, are charged on those articles only which are intended for sale or consumption in the country. Thus, sea
stores, goods imported and re-exported in the same vessel,
goods landed and carried over land for the purpose of
being re-exported from some other port, goods forced in by
stress of weather, and landed, but not for sale, are exempted from the payment of duties. The whole course of legislation on the subject shows, that, in the opion of the
189.

\become
Brown
V.

legislature, the right to sell is connected with the payment
of duties.
The counsel for the defendant in error have endeavoured
to illustrate their proposition, that the constitutional prohibition ceases the instant the goods enter the country, by an
array of the consequences which they suppose must follow
thedenial of it. If the importer acquires the right to sell by
the payment of duties, he may, they say, exert that right
when, where, and as he pleases, and the State cannot regulate it. He may sell by retail, at auction, or as an itinerant
pedlar. Hie may introduce articles, as gunpowder, which
endanger a city, into the midst of its population; he may
introduce articles which endanger the public health, and
the power of self-preservation is denied. An importer may

OF THE UNITED STATES.

443

bring in goods, as plate, for his own use, and thus retain
1827.
much valaable property exempt from taxation.
These objections to the pr.nciple, if well founded, would Brown
V.
certainly be entitled to serious consideration. But, we State of
think, they will be found, on examination, not to belong ne- Marylang.
cessarily to the principle, and, consequently, not to prove,
that it may not be resorted to with safety as a criterion by
which to measure the extent of the prohibition.
This indictment is against the importer, for selling a pgadkage of dry goods in the form in which it was imported, witbout a license. This state of things is changed if he sells
them, or otherwise mixes them with the general property
of the State, by breaking up his packages, and travelling
with them as an itinerant pedlar. In tAe first case, the twz
intercepts the import, as animport, in its way to becsipe incorporated with the general mass of property, and denies it
the privilege of becoming so incorporatedUntil it shall have
contributed to the revenue of the State. It denies to the
importer the right of using the privilege which he has purchased from the United States, until he shall have also pirchased. it from the State. In the last cases, the tax finds the
article already incorporated with the mass of property by
the act of the importer. He has used the privilege he had
purchased, and has himself mixed them up with the common
mass, and the law may treat them as it finds them. The
same observations apply to plate, or other furniture usedby
the importer.
So, if he sells by auction. Auctioneers-are persons
licensed by the State, and if the importer chooses to employ
them, he can as little object to paying for this service, Asfor,
any other for.which he may apply to an officer of the State,,
The right of sale may very well be annexed to importtion,
without annexing to it, also, the privilege of using the officers licensed by the State to'make sales in a peculiar way.
The power to direct the removal of gunpowder is a
branch of the police power, which unquestionably remains,
and ought to remain, with the States. If the possessor stores
it himself out of town, the removal cannot be a duty on imn.
ports, because it contributes nothing to the revenue. If bc
prefers placing it in a public magazine, it is becRauge he stores

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1 q7,
kao-yb
11"wn
State of
Maryland,

itthere, in his own opinion, more advantageously than elsewhere. We are not sure that this may not be classed among
inspection laws. The removal or destruction of infectious
or unsound articles is, undoubtedly, an exercise of that
power, and forms an express exception to the prohibition
we are considering. Indeed, the laws of the United States
expressly sanction the health laws of a State.
The principle, then, for which the plaintiffs in error contend, that the unporter acquires a right, not only to bring
the articles into the country, but to mix them with the. common mass of property, does not interfere with the necessaty power of taxation which is acknowledged to reside in the
States, to that dangerous extent which the counsel for the
defendants in error seem to apprehend. It carries the prohibition in the constitution no farther than to prevent-the
States from doing that which it was the great object of the
constitution to prevent.
But if it should be proved, that a duty on the article itself
would be repugnant to the constitution, it is still argued,
that this is npt a tax upon the article, but on the person.
The State, it is said, may tax occupations, and this is nothing
more.
It is impossible to coticeal from ourselves, that.this is varying the farm, without varying the substance. It is treating a prohibition which is general, as if it were confined .to
a p6rticular mode of doiig the forbidden thing. All must
perceive, that a tax on the sale of-an article, imported only
for sale, is a tax on the qrticle itself, Iti s true, the State
may tax occupations generally,.but this tax must be paid
by those who employ the individuali or is a tax on his business. The lawyer, the physician, or the mechanic, must
either charge more on 'the article in which he deals, or the
thing itselfis taxed through his person. This the State has
a riglit to do, because no constitutional prohibition'extends
in likB
to it. So, a tax on the.occupation of an importer is,
manner, a tax on importation. I'must add to the price of
the article, and be paid by the consumer, or by the importer himself, in like manner as a direct duty on the article
itself would be made. This the State'has not a nghtto do,
because it is prohibited by.the constitution.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

445

1827.
In support of the argument, that the prohibition' ceases
the instant the goods are brought into the country, a compaV.
rison has been drawn between the opposite words export Brown
and import. As; to export, it is said, means only to carry State of
goods out of the country; so, to import, nieans only to bring. Maryland.
them into it. But, suppose we extend this comparison to
the two prohibitions. The States are forbidden to lay a
duty on exports, and the United States are forbidden. to lay
a tax or duty on articles exported from any State There
is some diversity in language, but none is perceivable in the
act which is prohibited. The United States have the same
right to tax occupations which is possessed by the States.
Now, suppose the United States ,should reqfiire every exporter to take out a license, for which he should pay subch
tax as Congress might think proper to *impose; would government be permitted to shield itself from the just censure
to which this attempt to evade the prohibitions of the constitution would expose it, by saying, that this was a tax on
the person, not on the article, and that the legislature had a
right to-tax occupations 9 Or, suppose revenue cutters were
to be stationed off the coast for the purpose of levying a
duty on all merchandise found in vessels which were leaving
the United States for foreign countries ; would it be received
as an excuse for this outrage, were the government to say
that exportation meant no more than carrying goods out of
the country, and as the prohibition to lay a tax on imports.
or things imported, ceased the instant they were brought
into the country, so the prohibition to tax articles exportea
ceased when they were carried out of te country 9
We' think, then, that the act under which the plaintiffs
in error were indicted, is repugnant to that article of the constitution which declares, that "no State shall lay any impost
or duties on imports or exports."
2. Is it also repugnant to that clause in the constitution Question as to
power o
regulating
which empowers "Congress to regulate commerce with- f- the
reign nations, and among the several States, and with the communerce.
Indian tribes 9'
The oppressed and degraded §tate of commerce previous
-4othe adoption of the constitution can scarcely be forgotten.
It was regulated by foreign nations with a single view tr.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

their own interests.; and our disunited efforts to counteract
Stheir restrictions were rendered impotent by want of combiBrown nation. Congress, indeed, possessed the power of making
V.
State of treaties, but the inability of the federal government to enMaryland. force them had become so apparent as to render that power
in a great degree useless. Those who felt the injury arising
from this state of things, and those who were capable of estimating the influence of commerce on the prosperity of nations, perceived the necessity of giving the control over this
important subject to a single government. It may be doubted whether any of the evils proceeding from the feebleness
of the federal government, contributed more to that: great
revolution which introduced the present system, than the
deep and general conviction, that commerce ought to be
regulated. by Congress. It is not, therefore, matter of surprise, that the grant should be as extensive as the mischief,
and should comprehend all foreign commerce, and all c mmerce among the States. To construe the power so as to
impair its efficacy, would tend to defeat an object, 'n the attainment of which the American public took, and justly
took, that strong interest which arose from a full conviction
of its necessity.
What, then, is the just extent of a power to regulate com.
inerce with foreign nations, and among the several States?
This question was considered in the case of Gibbons v.
Ogden, (9 Wteat. Rep. 1.) in which it was declared to be
complete in itself, and to acknowledge no limitations other
-than are .prescribed by the constitution. The power is coextensive with the subject on which it acts, and cannot be
stopped at the external boundary of a State, but must enter
its interior.
W deem it unnecessary now to reason in support of these
propositions. Their truth is proved by facts continually
before our eyes, and was, we think, demonstrated, if they
could require demonstration, in the case already mentioned.
If this power reaches the interior of a State, and may be
there exercised, it must be capable of authorizing the sale
of those articles which it introduces. Commerce is inter-tourse : one of its most ordinary ingredients is traffic. It
is inconceivable, that the power to authorize this traffic,
1827.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
when given in the most comprehensive terms, with the in- 1827.
tent that its efficacy should be complete, should cease at 1
is indispensable-to its value. Brown
•
1.
the point when its continuance
To what purpose should the power to allow importation be "StaLe of
given, unaccompanied with the power to authorize a sale of Maryland.
the thing imported 9 Sale is the object of importation, and
is an essential ingredient of that intercourse, of which Importation constitutes a. part. It is as essential an ingredient,
as indispensable to the existence of the entire thing, then, as
importation itself. It must be considered as a component
part of the power to regulate commerce. Congress has a
right, not only to authorize importation, but to authorize the
importer to sell.
If this be admitted, and we think it cannot be denied, what
can be the meaning of an act of Congress which authorizes
importation, and offers the privilege for sale at a fixed price
to every person who chooses to become a purchaser 7 How
is it to be construed, if an intent to deal honestly and fairly.
an intent as wise as it is moral, is to enter into the construction? What can be the use of the contract, what does the
importer purchase, if he does not purchase the privilege to
sell
What would be the language of a foreign government,
which should be informed that its merchants, after importing according to law, were forbidden to sell the merchandise
imported 9 What answer would the United States giye to
the complaints and just reproaches to which such an extraordinary circumstance would expose them
N'- apology
could be received, or even offered. Such a state of things
would break up commerce. It will not meet this argument,
to say, that this state of thiihgs will never be produced; that
the good sense of the States is a sufficient security against it
The constitution has not confided this subject to that goo4i
sense. It is placed elsewhere. The question is, where does
the power reside? not, how far will it be probably abused ?
The power claimed by the State is, in its nature, in conflict
with that given to Congress; and the greater or less extent in
which it may be exercised does not enter into the inquiry
concerning its existence,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.
'istg
;Brown
V.

We think, then, that if the power to authorize a sale exin Congress, the conclusion-that the ngbt to sell is connected with the law permitting importation, as an inseparable

State of incidentis inevitable.
If the principles we have stated be correct, the result to
Maryland.
which they conduct us cannot be mistaken. Any penalty
inflicted on the importer for selling the article in his character of importer, must be in opposition to the act of Congress
which authorizes' importation. Any charge on the introduction and incorporation of the articles into and with the
mass of properiy in the country, must be hostile to the power
given to L'ongress to regulate commerce, since an essential
part.of that regulation, and principal object of it, is to prescribe the regular means for accomplishing that introduction
and incorporation.
The distinction between a tax on the thing imported, and
on the perpon of the importer, can have no influence on this
part of the subject. It is too obvious for controversy, that
they interfere equally with the power to regulate commerce.
It has been contended, that this construction of the power
t6 regulate commerce, as was contended iv construing the
prohibition.to lay duties on imports, would abridge the ac,
knowledged power of a State to tax its own citizens, or their
property.. Avtin its territory.
We admit this power to be sacred; but cannot admit
that it.may be used-so as to-obutract the frep course of a
.power given to-Congress. We cannot admit, that it may
be used. so -s to obstruct or defeat the power to regulate
commerce. .Ithas beei[ observed, that the powers remaining with,'the. States may be so exercised as to come in conflict with those vested in Congress. When this happens,
that which is not supreme must yield to that which is supreme. This great and universal truth is inseparable from
the nature of things, and the constitution has applied it to
the often interfering powers of the general. and State governments, as a vital principle of perpetual operation. It
results, necessarily, from this principle, that- the taxing
power of the States must have sonme limits. It cannot reach
and restrain the action of the national, government-within
.proper sphere. It-annnt reach the administration of
.ts

OF THE UNITED STATES
1827.
.justice in the Courts of the union, or thc t.ollection ol tiLe
taxes of the United States, or restrain the operation of any ,01-.-,'
law which Congress may constitutionally pbss. It cannot Brown
interfere with any regulation of commerce. If the States State of
may tax all persons and property found on their territory, Marhfld.
what shall restrain them from taxing goods in their transit
through the State from one port to another, for the purpose
of re-exportation 9, The laws of trade authorize this opc-"
ration, and general convenience requires it. Or what
should restrain a State from taxing any article passing
through it from one State to another, for the purpose of traffic? or from taxing the transportation of articles passing
from the State itself to another State, for commercial purposes9 These cases are all within the sovereign power of
taxation, but would obviously derange the measures of Congress to regulate commerce, and affect materially the purpose for which that p ? wer was given. IVWdeem it unnecessary to press this argument farther, or to give additional
illustrations of it, because the subject was taken up, and
considered with great attention, in .M'Culloch v. The State
of Maryland, (4 Wheat. Rep. 316.) the decision in which
case is, we think, entirely applicable to this.
It may be proper to add, that we suppose the principles
laid down in this case, to apply equally io importations from
a sister State. We do not mean to give any opinion on a
tax discriminating between foreign and domestic articles.
We think there is error in the judgment of the Court of
Appeals of the State of Maryland, in affirming the judgment
of the Baltimore City Qourt, because the act of the legislature of Maryland, imposing the penalty for which the said
judgment is'"endered, is r pugaant to the constitution of the
United States, and, consequently, void. The judgment'is
td'be reversed, and the cause remanddto that-Court, with
instruction!s to enter judgment idfavour of 'the appellants.'
Mr. Justice TiaomsoN dissentqd. It i§- with some reluctance, arid very considera6le diffidence, that I have
brought myself publicly to dfssent from the opinion of the
Court- in this case, and did it not involve,an'important con57
Aor. XIT.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.
\general

Brown
V.

State of

Mrvland.

stitutional question relating to the relative powers of the
and State governments, I should silently acquiesce
in the judgment of the Court, although my own opinion
might not accord with theirs.
The case comes before this Court on a writ of error to
the Court of Appeals of the State of Maryland, upon a
judgment rendered in that Court against the defendants.
The proceedings in the Court below were upon an indictment against the defendants, merchants in the city of Baltimore, trading under the firm of Alexander Brown & Sons.
and to recover against them the penalty alleged to have
been incurred, for a violation of an act of the legislature of
that State, by selling a package of foreign dry goods without
having a license for that purpose, as required by said act.
and the only question which has been made and argued is,
whether the act referred to is in violation of the constitution of the United States.
The act in question was passed on the 23d of February,
1822, and is entitled "A supplement to the act laying duties on licenses to retailers of dry goods, and fqr other purposes." By the second section, under which the penalty
has been recovered, it is enacted, "that all importers of
foreign articles or commodities, of dry goods, wares, or merchandise, by bale or package, or of wine, rum, brandy,
whiskey, and other-distilled spiritous liquors, &c. -and other
persons selling the sale by wholesale, bale, or package,
hogshead, barrel, or tierce, shall, before they are authorized
to sell, take out a license as by the original act is directed,
for which they shall pay fifty dollars; and, in case of neglect or refusal to take out such license, shall be subject to
the same penalties and forfeitures as are prescribed by the
original act to which this is a supplement."
By the original act, passed in 1819, retaildealersii (greigu
-nerchandise are required to take out a license; od te supplemental act requires, that wholesale dealers should likewise take out alicenseto sell. These acts boin npartmateria,are to be taken together, and their effect and operation
manifestly is nothing more than to r~quire retail and wholesale dealers in foreign merchandise, to take out a license before they should be authorized to sell such merchandise.

OF THE UNITED STATE,.

The act does not require a license to zmport, or demand any 1827.
thing more of the importer than is required of any other
V.
dealer in the article imported. The license is for selling, Browyn
and is general, applying to all persons. that all importers, State of
and other persons selling by wholesale, bale, or package, Mmayland..
&c. shall, before they are authorized to sell, take out a
license, &c.
I understand it to be admitted, that these laws, so far as
they relate to retail dealers, are not ip violation of the constitution of the United States and, if so, the question resolves
itself into the inquiry, whether a distinction in this respect
between a retail and wholesale dealer in foreign merchaiidisc, can exist under any sound construction of the constitution.
The parts of the constitution which have been drawn in
question on the discussion at the bar, and with which the
law in question is supposed to be in conflict, are, that which
gives to Congress the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations, and among the several States, and that which
declares that no State shall, without the consent of Congress, lay any imposts, or duties on imports or exports, except what may be absolutely necessary for executing its inspection laws.
It is very obvious, that this law can, in no manner whatever, affect the commercial intercourse between the Statesz
it applies purely to the internal trade of the State of Maryland. The defendants were merchants, trading in the city
of Baltimore. The indictment describes them as such, and
alleges the sale to have been in that place; and nothing appears to warrant an inference, that the package of goods
sold was not intended for consumption at that place, and
the law has no relation whatever to goods intended for transportation to another State. It is proper here to notice,
that although the indictment alleges, that the defendants did
inport and sell, yet the District Attorney, in framing the indictment, very properly considered the offence to consist in
the selling, and not in the importation without a license.
DNo one will pretend, that if the indictment had only alleged.
-that the defendants did import a package of foreign- dr#(goods without a license, it could have been -ustained. The

-452

CASES IN THg SUPREME COURT

act applies to the importer, and other persons selling by
-wholesale; and the allegation that the defendants did import,is merely descriptive of the double character in which
T
he inState of they Were dealing, both as importers and sellers.
Mayland. dictment would, undoubtedly, have been good, had it merely
alleged that the defendants sold the package without a
license. So that neither the act, nor the form in which the
complaint is presented, makes any discrimination between
the importer and any oti.er wholesale dealer in foreign merchandise, but requires both to take out a license to sell,
nor does it appear to me, that this law, in any manner, infringes or conflicts with the power of Congress to regulate
comrnercowith foreign nations. Itis to be bornem mind, that
this was a power possessed by the States respectively before
the adoption of the constitution,and is nota powergrowing out
of the establishment -ofthe general government. It is to be
viewed, therefore, as the surrender of a power antecedently
possessed by the States, and the extent of the surrender must
receive a fair and reasonable interpretation with reference
to the object for which the surrender was made. This was
principally with a view to the revenue, and extended only
to the external commerce of the United States, and did not
embrace any portion of the interna! trade or commerce of
the several States. This is not only the plain and obvious
interpretation of the terms used in the constitution, commerce withforeign nations;but such has been the construction adopted .by this Court. In the case of Gibbons v. Ogden, (9 Wheat. Rep. 194.) the Court, in speaking of the
grailt of the power of Congress to regulate commerce, say,
"It is not intended to comprehend that commerce which
is completely internal, which is carried on between man and
man in a State, or between different parts of the same State.
and which does not extend to, or affect other States ; such a
power would be inconvenient, and is certainly unnecessary.
The enumeration of the particular classes of commerce to
which the power was to be extended, would not have been
made had the intention been to-extend the power to every
description.. The enumeration piesupposes something not
enumerate-d, and that something, if we regard the language on
f.he sibihet csf-the sentence- must be the excltwiv1v iqtitrrnal
1827.
"
Brown
V.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

453

commerce of a State. The genius and character of the 1327.
whole government seems to be, tb,t its action is to be ap- .v
plied to all the external concerns of the nation, and to those Brown
1.
intcrnal concerns which affect the States generally, but not Gcate of
to those which are completbly within a ,,arfic,,ar State, Maryland.
which do not affect other States, and with which it is not necessary to interfere foe the purpose of executipg some of
the general powers of the government. Tne completely
internal commerce of a State, then, may be considered as
reserved for the State itself." And, again, (208.) " the acknowledged power of a State to regulate its police, its domestic trade, aiia to govern its own citizens, may enable it
to legislate on this subject (commerce) to a considerable
extent."
If such be the division of power between the general and
State governments in relation to commerce, where is the line
to be drawn between internal and external commerce 9 It
appears to me, that no other sound and practical rule can be
adopted, than to consider the external commerce as ending
with the tmportation of the foreign article; .and the smportation ts complfete, as soon as the goods are introduced into the
country, according to the provisions of the revenue laws,
with the intention of being sold here for consumption, or
for the purpose of internal and domestic trade, and the duties paid or secured. And this is the light in which this question has been considered by this- and other Courts of the
United States, (5 Cranch, 368. 9 Cranch, 104. 1 .Mason,
499.) This, it will be perceived, does not embrace foreign
merchandise intended for exportation, and not for consumption; nor articles intended for commerce between the
States; buf such as are intended for domestic trade within
the State and it is to such articles only that the law of Maryland extends. I cannot, therefore, think, that this law at
all interferes wth the power of Congress to regulate coumerce; nor does it, according to my understanding of the
constitution, violate that provision, .with declares that no
State shall, without the consent of Congress, lay any imposts
or duties on imports or exports, except what may be absolutely necessary for executing its inspection laws.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURTr

The compensation required by this law to be paid for a
Slicense to sell, cannot be considered an impost or duty, withBrovwn in the sense and meaning of these terms, as used in the con1827.
V.

State of stitution. They refer to the foreign duty, and not to any
Maryland. charge that may grow out of the internal police of the States.
It may indirectly fall on the. imported articles, and enhance
the price in the sale, but even this is not an expense imposed
on the importer or other seller, but is borne ultimately by
the consumer.
But the broad principle has been assumed on the argument.
that the payment of the foreign duty is a purchase of the right
and privilege, not only of introducing the goods into the
country, but of selling them free from any increased burden
imposed by the States, and, unless this principle can be sustained, thelaw in question is not in violation of the constitution.
The counsel, however, aware that the principle thus
broadly laid down, if practically carried out to its full extent,
would lead to consequences so obviously intcnable, that
it would at once show the unsoundness of the principle itself, have limited its application to the first wholesale disposition of the merchaidise. Can such a distinction, however, be sustained 9 There is nothing certainly in the letter
of the constitution to support it; nor does it fall within any
reasonable intendment growing out of the nature of the subject matter of the provision. The prohibition to the States
is against laying any impost ot duty on zmports. It is the
merchandise that is exempted from the imposition. Th
eonstitution no where gives any extraordinary protection to
the importer. So that, if the law was confined to the importer-only, he could find no exemption from the operation
of State. laws. Nor is there, according to my.. judgment,
any. rational grounds, upon which the constitution may'be
-considered as extending such exemption to wbole6ale, and
not to retail dealers. If the payment oTthe foreign duty is
the purchase of the privilege to sell, as well as to introduce
the article, into the couiltry, where can be the difference
whether this -privilege is exercised in the one way or the
other 9 The retail merchant often imports his own goods and why should he be compelled to take out a license to sell.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

455

1827.
when his neighbour, who imports and sells by wholesale, is
'
exempted. But the distinction is ,altogether fruitless, and
does not effect the object supposed to have been intended, Brown
viz. to take from the States the power of imposing burdens State of
upon foreign merchandise, t6at might tend to lessen or en- Maryland,
tirely prevent the importation, and thereby diminsli the revenue of the United States. It is very evident that no such
purpose can be accomplishedi by limiting the protection to
the first sale. It was admitted, that after the first sale, and the
article becomes mixed and incorporated in the general mass of
the property of the country, and to be applied to domestic-use,
it loses this pretended privilege. But every one knows, that
whatever charge or burden is imposed upon the retail sale, affects the wholesale indirectly, as much as if laid directly upon
the wholesale. The retail dealer takes this charge into calculation in the purchase from the wholesale merchant, and
which, of course, equally affects the importation. Suppose
the fifty dollars required to be paid by the wholesale dealer,
was imposed on the retail merchant, would it not equally
affect the importation ? It would equally increase the burden, and enhance the expense of the article when it comes
into the hands of the consumer, and on whom all the charges
ultimately fall. And if these charges are so increased by
the State governments, in any stages of the internal trade,
as to check their sale for cofisumption, it will necessarily affect the importation. So that nothing short of a total exemption from State charges or taxes, under all circumstances, will answer the supposed object of the constitution.
Andto push the principle to such lengths, would be a restriction upon State authority, not warranted by the constitution.
It certainly cannot be maintained, that the States have no
authority to tax imported merchandise. But the same principle of discr0mnation between the wholesale and retail
dealer, as to a license to sell, would seem to me, if well-founded, to extend to taxes of every description. And it would
present a singular incongruity, to exempt a wholesale merchant from all taxes upon his stock ofgoods, and subject to
taxation the like stock of his neighbour who was selling by
retail

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

456
1827.

It is laid down in No. 32 of the Federalist, (and 1 behevadmitted,) "that the States, with the sole exception of duties on imports'and exports, retain authi:rity to

'universally

Brown
V.

State of tax in the most absolute and unqualified sense, and any atviryland. tempt on the part of the national government to abridge
them in the exercise of it, would be a violent assumption of
power, unwarranted by any article or clause in the constitution." Although an impost or duty 'May be considered a
tax in its most enlarged sense, yet every tax cailnot be understood to mean an impost or duty in tbe sense of the constitution. As here used, it evidently refers to the foreign
duty imposed by revenue laws. It would be a singular
use of the term tnzpost, to apply it to a tax on real estate ; and
no one, I presume. would contend, that all imported articles
upon which the duties have been paid, are exempt from all
State taxation in the hands of the consumer. And yet this
would follow, if duty and tax are, in all respects, sytionymous; for the constitution declares, that no State shall lay
any duty on imports, viz. the article imported. To avoid
these consequences, which are certainly inadmissible,.the
inhibition to the States must be understood as extending
only to foreign duties, and not to taxes imposed by the
States, after the imports become articles of internal trade,
and for doimestic use and consumption; they then become
subject to State jurisdiction.
This law seems to have been- treated as- if it imposed a
tax or duty upon the importer, or the importation. It certainly admits of no such construction. It is -a charge upon
the wholesale dealer, whoever he may be, and to operate
upon the sale, and not upon the importation. It requires
the purchase of a privilege to sell, and must stand on the
same footing as a purchase of a privilege to sell in any other
manner, as by retail, at auction,, or as hawkers and pedlars,
or in whatever way State policy may require. Whether
such regulations are wise and politic, is not a question for
this Court. Ifthe broad principle contended for on the part
error, that the payment of the foreign duty
of the plaintiffs it%
isa purchase of the privilege of selling, be well founded, no
limit can be set by the States to the exercise of this privilege; The first sale may be made in defiance of all State

OF THE UNITED STATES.

457

regulation, and all State laws regulating sales of foreign 1827.'
goods at auction. and imposing a duty thereupon, are un- \
Brown
constitutional, so far, at all events, as the sale may be by
of
State
And,indeed,
&c.
bale, package, hogshead, barrel or tierce,
Marylan&
importation,
the
to
incident
an
as
if the right to sell follows
it will take away all State control oyer infectious and noxious
goode, whilst unsold, in the bands of the importer. The
principle, when carried out to its full extent, would inevitably lead to such consequences.
It has been urged with great earnestness upon the Court,
that if the States are permitted to lay such charges and taxes
upon imports, they may be so multiplied and increased as
entirely to stop all importations. If this argument presents
any serious objection to the law in question,.the answer to
it, in myjudgment, has already been given: that the limitation, as contended for, of State power, will hot eff'ect the objects proposed. Whether this additional burden isimposed
upon the wholesale or retail dealer, it will equally affect the
importation; and nothing short of a total exemption from
all taxation and charges of every description, will take from
the States the power of legislating so as in some way may
indirectly affect the importation.
But arguments drawn against the existence of a power
from its supposed abuse are illogical, and generally lead to
unsound conclusions. And this is emphatically, so when applied to our system of government. It'supposes the interest
of the people) under the general and State governments, to
be in hostility with each other, instead of considering the
two governments as parts only of the same system, and forming but one government for the same.people, having for its
object the same common interest and welfare of all.
If the supposed abuse of a power is a satisfactory objection to its existence, it will equally apply to many of the
powers of .the general governrhent; and .it is as reasoable
to suppose that the people would wish to injure or destroy
themselves, through the instrumentality of the one government as the other.
The doctrine or the Court in the case of ,1'Cullochv.
the State of .Aar latnd, (4 Wheat. Rep. 316.) has been urged
1
1
VOL. Xl11

458

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

as'having a bearing upon this question unfavourable to the
But it appears to me, that that case
Brown warrants no such conclusion. It is there.admitted, that the
V.
State of power 6ftaxation is an incident of sovereignty, and is co-exMaryland. tensive with that to which it is an incident. And that all subjects, over which the sovereign power of a State extends, are
objects of taxation. The bank of the United States could
not be taxed by the States, because it was an instrument
employed by the government in the execution of its powers.
It was called into existence under the authority of the United States, and of course could not have previously existed
as an object of taxation by the States. Not so, however,
with respect to imports, they were in existence, and under
the absolute jurisdiction and control of the States, before the
adoption of the constitution. And it is, therefdre, as to
them, a question of surretider of power' by the States, and
to what extent this has been given up to the United States.
And it is expressly admitted in that case, that the opinion
did not deprive the States of any resources they originally
possessed, nor to any tax paid by the real property of the
,bank in common with the other real property within the
State, nor to a tax imposed on the interest which the citizens of Maryland may hold in the institution, in common,
with other &roperty of the same description throughout the
State. But the tax was held unconstitutional, because laid
on the operations of the bank, axd consequently a tax on
the operation of an instrument employed by the government
of the Uiion to carry its powers into execution; and this
instruhent, created by the government of the Union. But
these objections do not apply to the law in question. The
government of the Union found the States in the full exercise
of sovereign power over imports. It was one of the sources
of revenue originally possessed by the States. The law does
not purport-to act directly upon any thing which has been
surrendered to the general government, viz. the external
commerce ofthe State' Itnmay operate indirectly upon it to
sorpe eltent, but cannot be made essentially to impede or
retard the operations of the government ; not more so than
might be effected by a tax on the stock held by individuals
in the bank df the United States. And, indeed, the power
1827.

Svalidity of the law.

OP THE UNITED STATES.

459

oi crippling the operations of the government, in the former 1827.
case, would not-be so practicable as in the latter, for it has
the whole range of the property of its citizens for taxation, Brown
and to provide the means for carrying on its measures. So State of
that it would be beyond the reach of the States materially Maryland.
to affect the operations of the general government, by taxing foreign merchandise, should they be disposed so-to do.
I am, accordingly, of opinion, that the judgment of the
Court of Appeals of the State of Maryland ought to be
affirmed.
This cause came on, &c. On consideration
whereof, this Court is of opinion, that there is error in the
3udgment rendered by the said Court of Appeals in this,
that thejudgment of the City Court of Baltimore, condemning
the said Alexander Brown, George Brown, John. A.- Brown,
and James Brown, to pay the penalty therein mentioned.
ought not to have been so rendered against them, because
-the act of the legislature of the State of Maryland, entitled,
(9An act supplementary to the act laying duties on licenses to
the retailers of dry goods, and for other purposes," on which
the indictment on which the said judgment was rendered is
founded, so far as it enacts, "that all importers of foreign
articles, of dry goods, wares, or merchandise, by bale or
-package, or of wine, rum, brandy, whiskey, or other distilled spiritous liquors, &c. selling the same by wholesale.
l ale, or puckage, hogshead, barrel, or tierce, shall, before
they are authorized to sell, take out a license as by the ori.
ginal act is directed,, for which they shall pay fifty dollars:
and, in case of neglect or refusal to take out such license,
shall be subject to the same penalties and forfeitures as are
prescribed by the original act to which this is a supplement,"
is repugnant to the constitution of the United States, and
void, wherefore the said Court of Appeals, before whom
the said judgment of the said City Court of Baltimore was
brought by appeal, ought not to have affirmed, but should
have reversed, the same. Wherefore it is CONSIDERED by
this Court, that the said judgment of the said Court of Appeals, affirming the saidjudgmeilt of the City Court of BatJUDGMENT.

4W)
182 7 .
Nav

CA9ES TIN THE SUPREME COURT
timore, be REVERSED and ANNULLED, and that the cause be
remanded to the said Court of Appeals, with directions to

U.States reverse the same;
V.
Giooding.
4

rSLAvE TsAr

Acss. EvIDENcE.

PLrADrG.j

The UNITED STATES against GooDxv-o.
Upon an indictment under the Slave Trade Act of the 2oth ol
'April, 1818, ch. 878. against the owner of the ship, testimony
of the declarations of the master, being a part of the res gesta,
connected with acts m surtherance of the voyage, aild within the
scope of his authority, as agent of the owner, in the conduct of
the guilty enterprise, is admissible in evidence against the owner.
'Upon such an indictment against the owner, charging him with fitting out the ship with intent to employ her in the illegal" voyage,
evidence is admissible that he commanded, authorized, anj super.
intended the fitnent, through the instrumentality of his agents,
without being personally present.
It is not essential to constitute a fitting out, under the acts of Congress, that dvery equipment necessary for a slave voyage, or any
equipment peculiarly adapted to such a voyage, should be taken
on board; it is sufficient if the vessel is actually fitted out with intent to be employed in the illegal voyage.
not necessary to specify the particulars
In such an indictment, it isof the fitting out; it is sufficient to allege the offence in the words
of the statute.
Nor s it necessary that there should be any principal offender ta
whom the defendant might be aiding andabetting. These terms
in the statute do not refer ;o the relation of principal and accessory in cases of felony; both the actor, and he who aids and abets
the act, are considered as principals.
It is necessary that the indictment should aver, that the vessel was
built, fitted out, &- or caused to sail, or be sent away, Withm the
juWisdictionof the United States.
An averment that the ship was fitted out, &c. " with intent that the
said vessel shold be employed" in the slave trade,js fatally defecive, the words of the statute being, "with intent to empoky"-the
vessel in the slave trade, and exclusively refernng to the intent of

the party eausng the act.

