OF THE UNITED STATES.

respects, AFPIRMED, and the cause is remanded to the said
Circuit Court, with directions to refoinm the said decree according to this opinion, and to do all other things therein as
equity and justice may require. In taking any account bVetween any of the parties which may be necessary for giving effect to this order, interest is to be computed according
to law'and usage.

505
1.827.
U. States
V.

Nicholh.

[SURETY.)

The

UNITED STATES

against NICeOLL.

The act ofiay 5ith, 1820, ch. 625. s. 9., which requires new soreties to be given by certain public officers on or before the 30th of
Scptember, 1820, does not expressly, or by implication, discharge
the former sureties from their liability.
The sureties are not responsible for moneys placed by the government in the hands of the principal, after the legal termination of
his office; but they are responsible for moneys which came into his
hands, while in office, and which he subsequently failed to account
for and pay over.
In general, laches is not imputable to the government: But, quare,
whether, in case there is an express a.reement between the government and te pr'Incipal,igiving time to the latter, and suspending
the right of the former to sub, the suretiesare not discharged as in a
similar case between private individuals 7
A mere proposition to give time, and suspend the right to sue, upoii
certain conditions and contingencies, which are not proved to have
been complied with, or to have happened, will not discharge the
sureties.
The cases of the United States v. Kirkpatrick, (9 Wheat. Rep. 720.)
and the United States v. Vanzandt, (11 Wheat. Rep. 184.) applied[
to the determination of the present case.

THIS cause was argued by the .flttorney General and Pe6, 2 Ml,
Mr. Sampson for the plaintiffs, and by Mr. D. B. Ogdez
for the defendant.

Mr. Justice TRIMBJarI delivered the opinion of th,. Cotsrt. Mar4 ,.'
S4
VoL. X1.

CASES iN THE SUPREME COURT
i 827.
U. States
V.

Nicholl.

The questions to be decided in this case arise out of a bill

~ of exceptions, taken by the plaintiffs, to the charge and instructions of the CircuitCourt to the jury upon the trial of
,the cause.a
The suit was founded on the official bondof 'Robert Swartwout, as nav3 agent, and with whom the defendant had become bound as'one of his sureties. The bond bears date
the 22d day of February, 1819; aid is in the penalty of
20,000 dollars, with the usual conditiou, to be void if Swartwout should faithfully perform the duties of his office, and
account for, and pay over, when required, the public property and money placed in his hands.
The declaration alleges, as a breach of the condition, of
the bond, that Swartwout's accounts had been settled by the
day of
proper accounting officers on the
and that, upon that settlement, a large balance had been
founa.agaimst him, which he had-failed and refused to pay
over to the United States when. required. The pleadings
havingbeen made up according. to the practice of NewYork, so as to put in issue the matters in controversy between the parties, the plaintiffs gave in evidence to the jury
the bond, with ifacondition, and Swartwout's settled account,
duly certified from the treasury department; and the defendant gave in evidence a letter from the Secretary of the'Navy td Robert Swartwout, dated tfie 25th day of Febrtuary,
1819; two commissions to Swartwout as-navy agent, the
one dated the 16th day of October, 1818, and the other the
30th day of November, 1818, and the following letter, dated
the 8th day of December, 1823, from Mr. Pleasanton, agent
of the treasury, to Mr. Tillotson, the district attorney, which
will be more particularly noticed hereafter:
" Treasury, Department, FiJIA Auditor's Office.
Decem6er 8. 823.
"Sin: From the best information I cat, obtain, it seems
pretty certdiIi that if we ireclose the mortgage giver to'the
United States by General Robert Swart-wout, and expose
a This cause was tned.m the Court below by the late District

Judge

VAm

Nxs!-

OF THE UNITED *STATES.

507

the property to sale, subject to a previous mortgage given to 1827.
Mr. Costerl we shall lose the whole, or nearly all of our .
V.
debt; this property being our only reliance, ifthe sureties U.'tates
should be discharged by due course of law from their re- Nicholl.
sponsibility for the payment of it. Under these circumstances, the only alternative which presents its-If for securing
any considerable portion of the debt is,to allow jGenjeral
Swartwout time within which to make an advantageous disposition of the property. He expresses a confident belief
that-in seven years he would be enabled, by connecting it
with a banking institution for which a charter has already
Ibeen granted by the State of New-Jersey, not only to pay
off the-first mortgage, but our mortgage also..
"It has been recommended by the Navy Department to
allow this iime,-and I have, accordingly, instead of three
years, as intimated to-you some time ago, determined to allow him seven years, provided the first mortgagee will
pledge himself-in writing, not to molest him for the same
space of time; and provided- also, that the bank with which
the property is to be connected, shall go into operation on
or before the first of October next. Sho.uld the banking ca,
pital not be made up .by the time mentioned, and the bank
fail to go into operation, this agreement is to be considered
wholly null and void. You will be pleased to take such
steps as will give this arrangement effect.
"As the sureties on General Swartwout's bond diaptife
our right to recover the penalty from, them, it will" be your
duty forthwith to institute suits against them in the Circuit
Court, and judgment going against us there, you will remove the cause to the Supreme Court, it being very de-.
sirable that the law should be settled in relation to bonds so
situated.
"I have the honour, &(
(Signed) S. PLEASANTON,
Agent'of the Treasury."
The Circuit Court deciftd, and, accordingly, instrudted
the jury, first, "That the defendant, Francis H. Nicoll, was
not responsible for any defalcation that took place on the
part of Robert Swartwout, as navy agent, subsequent to the

508

CASES IN THE SUPREgE COURT

30th day of September, 1820, when, in and by the act of
Congress, passed the .18th of May, 1820, new sureties were
U.. States required by law to be glvei, by the said Robert Swartwout.
V.
Sechndly, "That the defendant was not responsible for
Nitholl.
any deficiency of public money reported on by the account.officers of the United States, subsequent to the 30th of
November, 1822, when it appeared in evidence that the appointment of Robert Swartwout, as navy agent, expired by
its legal termination.
Thirdly, "That he. left it to. them to decide whether the
letter from S. Pleasanton, Esq. addressed to Robert Til)lotson, Esq. which had been read in evideice before
the jury, did give further time to Robert Swartwout for
tfie payment of the debt due the United States; and
that if, in the opinion of the jury, the letter in question
did give time to the said. Robert Swartwout until October, 1824, or any subsequent period, that then the d&fendant was discharged from his liability, and their verdictshould be mendered for the defendant. And, lastly, that
the said several matters so produced and read-in evidence,
on the part of the said Francis H. ;4icoll, were sufficiet, in
law, to maintain the issue on his. part, and that the United
States ougt not, upon all the matters produced in evidence,
to maintain the said action,7 &c.
These several 6pimons and instructions, are brought before this Court for re-examination" by the present writ of
error.
Upon looking-into the act of Congress, passed May 15th,
The former
.
hot
sureties
dischurged b' 1820, entitled "An act providing for *the better organizathe act of tion of the treasury depaitment," which is the one referred
3820,
to in the first instruction, we are satisfied it was misconstrued
by,the judge. The second section of the act provides a new.
and svmmary process against public defaulterg and their
sureties, after the&30tli of September, 1820. The scope
and design of the act, in requiring new sureties to be given
by that day, was in order that, if stch new sureties should
be given, the summary process might operate upon them, as
well as upon the principal, if the treasury department should
elect to pursue such summary process. This is manifest
rom the provision in the act, that the summary process shall
not affect the'existing sureties.
18.27.
'-vw-.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

509

1827.
The act no where directs the principals to be discharged
from office, upon failure to give new sureties; and if the %
act had so directed, they would have remained in office un- U. States
til actually removed. The law does pot, in terms, declare Nicholl.
the existing sureties shall be dischav'ged from and after the
30th of September, 80. It would require avery strained
construction of the statute to discharge them by implication,
*bile their principals were permitted to remain in office.
Such construction would be, we think, against the manifest
itention of the legislature. The 10th section enacts, "that
nothing in this act contained shall be construed to take
away or impair any right or reined 3 which the United States
now have, by law, for the recovery of taxes, debts, or demands."2
The cases of the United States v. Kirrjpatrtck, (9 Wheat.
Rep. 720.) and the United States v. Vanzandt. (11 Wheat.
Rep. 184.) are, in principle, undistinguishable. from this
case.

They decide, Ist. That laches is not imputable to thegovernment; 2d. that the provisions of the law requiring settlements by its officers to be made at short periods, are designed for the security and protection of the government,
and to regulate the conduct of those officers, that they are
merely directory to those officers, and form no part of the
contract with thesureties. And the last case decides, 3dly
That'where the ict expressly directs a defaulting officer to
be recalled at th expiration of six months from the time of
his default, his sureties are not discharged, but remain liable for his defaults thereafter, until he is actually recalled.
If the second instruction given to the jury was intended SecOnd n
of Swartto inform them that the defendant, as surety
wout, was not legall) responsible for money placed by
the government in his hands, after the legal termination of
his office, it was unquestionably correct; and this is thc.
sense in which we suppose the Court meant to be under
stood. But if it was intended~to convey the idea, that hc
was not responsible for money which came to Swartwout's
hands while in office, but which he afterwards failed to ac
'ount for and pay over. it was clearly incolcre t.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT1827.:
6I. States
V.

In deciding upon the third instruction given, as to the

~ effect an operation of Mr. Pleasanton's letter.to the Dis-

trict Attorney, it is not intended to give any intimation of

N-icholl.
what would-be the opinion of this Court, if it had appeared
Third instruc- from the letter, that the government had made any arrangdtion.
ment with Swartwout, without the assent of his sureties,
whereby the right of the.government to sue upon the bond
had been suspended to the first daZ of'October, 1824, or to
any subsequent time. Nothing of the kind appears from
the letter. It speaks of a mortgage which had been given
by Swartwout, upon property subject to a former mortgage
to Mr. Coster; but it does not appear that, by the terms of the
mortgage, the right to sue on the official bond was suspended; and the taking of a collateral security, without suspending the rrght to sue onthe bond, could not bar the action on
the bond. The letter speaks of an intention formed of giving
time upon the mortgage, upon specified conditions at d contingencies; but none of those conditions or contingencies are
shown to have been complied with, or to have happened. The
letter contains no contract, and gives no timepcr se, upon any
consideration binding on the government, and that the letter
did not intend to-suspend the right of the United States to sue
.n this bond, is palpable, because it directs suit to be brought
thereon immediately. As no fact, connected with the lotter, was proved by eiidence ai'unde, the construction of the
letter upon its face was matter of law, and the Circuit
Court ought to have decided and instructed the jury accordingly, that nothing on the face of the letter constituted any
defence to the -action. There was nothing but the construction of the letter to be left to the jury, and the Court
ought to have informed the jury that. according to its true
construetion, it did not give time so as to bar the action
against the surety;
After the observations already made, it cannot be necessary to go into any further reasoning to show that the Circuit erred in.its concluding instruction, that, upon the whole
matter, the-law was for the defendant. It was a conclusion
Orawn' by that Court from the premises it had assumed in
the former instruction given, and the error of these premisec

OF THE UNITED STATES.

511.

having been shown, the error of the conclusion necessarily 1827.
follows.
" Some observations were made b the defendant's counsel M'Gill
in argument, as tt the manner in +ch thi debits and cre- Bank of
dits in Swartwout's account had been adjusted by the ac- U. States.
counting officers, and he seemed to suppose, that credits
which ought to have been applied towards the extinguishment or lessening of the debits, for money placed in his
hands before the 20th of November, 1822, had been impropcrly applied to the transactions of Swartwout with the
government after that day.
Bight of the
The case of The United States v. January / Patterson,government
to
(7 Cranchs Rep. 572.) is m point to show, that, as to any apply the creto either
account.
disbursemeiis of money after the 30th of November, 1822, dits
for which Swartwout was entitled-to credit, it was at the
election of the government to apply them to either account.
But there is no necessity for the application of the principle to this case, for, upon looking into the account, we
find that. after crediting Swartwout with all his disbursements up until the AQth of November, 1822, There remained, on that day, a balauce in his hands unaccounted for.
much beyond the penalty of the bond ; so .that no injustice
is done to the surety in the manner of settling the account.
Judgment reversed. and a v'enrcrfac~as de noeo awarded.

LSURETY.J

Al'GILL, and Others, Plaintiffs in Error, against The PRE.S1DENT, DIRECTORS & COMePANY
UNITED STATEs,

OF THE BANK OF THE

Defendants in Error.

A. W M'G. gave a bond to the Btank of the United States, with
sureties, ondiiojid for the fauthfil performance of the dtimzes of
the office of cashier of one of the offieces of discount and deposit

during the term he should hold that office. The president and diretors of the bank having discovered that he. had been guilty of

