CASES IN THE -SUPREME COURT
1827.

It is believed, no purchaser would have ventured to buy
. without first inspecting the title deeds,and both the plats. But
Dunlap be this asit may, and even if any should have been so careless
V.

Dunlap.

as not to examine the latter plat. still it would clearly appear, from the recorded plat, that the lot described did not
lie m the addition supposed by the notice, but in Threlkeld's
addition, which was all that was necessary to correct the
mistake; and it would also appear, it must necessarily lie
in the angle made by Fayette-street and Second-street.
A purchaser, or any one inclined to become a purchaser.
of property upon those streets, could not have failed to have
ascertained the particular lot intended by the notice.
We all think the notice was, notwithstanding the mistake
in part of the description, certain to a common and reason..
able extent, and that is sufficient.
Judgment affirmed, with costs.

LCHA'cERY.

LoCAL LAw.

DugrAP and Another, Appellants. agazn.t DUNLAP and

Others, Respondents.
A question of fact, in a suit in equity, respecting the proprietary nterest in an entry of lands within the Military District of Ohio.
Rule of equity, that where land is sold as for a certain quantity; tL
Court of Equity relieves if the quantity be defective, only applicable to contracts for the sale of land in a settled country, uhere
the titles are complete, the boundaries determined. and the real
quantity known, or cipable of being ascertained by the vendor.

Feb. 9th.

THIS cause was argued by Mr Scott for the appellants.
and by Mr Doddndge for the respondents.

Feb. 17th.

Mr. Chief Justice MaRSBALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

575

This suit was brought originally by John Dunlap, the ap- 1827.
pellee, in the Circuit Court of the United States. sitting in
the District of Ohio, to obtain a conveyance of one moiety Dunlap
V.
of a tract of land in the State of Ohio, which was purchased, Dunlap.
as is alleged in the bill, on the joint account of the plaintiff
and of his uncle Alexander, one of the defendants in the.
Circuit Court. Alexander, who made the contract, obtained the conveyance to himself, and afterwards conveyed the
land to his son James. Both Alexander and James were
made defendants.
Some time about the year 1792 or 1793, Alexander Dunlap purchased from John Fowler an entry of one'thousand
acres of land on the Scioto river in- the Virginija. Military
District, at the price of 100 pounds, Virginia currency. Anagreement was 6ntered into at the time between the-plaintiff
and the defendant, Alexander, that this puchase" should be
made ill partnership, the plaintiff says, with himself, the
defendant says, with John Dunlap, senior, his father. The
testimony, however, proves incontestibly that, though the
moiety of the purchase money was paid by the father, it was
paid for the plaintiff, whom he always considered as the
rightful proprietor of the land. The purchase will, therefore, be treated as being made on the joint account of the
plaintiff and Alexander Dunlap. JAmes Dunlap claims as
a volunteer under Alexander, and hig title is dependant on
that of his father.
The original entry was made the 7th of August, 1787. It
was withdrawn and re-entered on the 22d of April, 1796,
and this entry was again withdrawn and re-entered on the
25th of July, 1796. The warrant was re-entered on nearly
the same land. The changes were such as might probably
be caused by a more perfect knowledge of the country; and
the last entry, as surveyed on the 20th of October, 1796,
contains about three hundred acres of surplus land. The
plat of the surveyor, however, on which the patent issued,
specifies only 1000 acres. The right to this surplus constitutes the chief subject of controversy between the parties
The plaintiffs contend that the whole entry was purchasec
and that in such contracts the whole entry passes to the purchaser. The defendants insist that the original uontract wa;

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.
Dunlap
V.
Dunlap.

for only 1000 acres, and that the surplus land belonged to

~ Fowler. That he afterwards purchased this surplus, not
on joint account, but for himqelf.

In 180-2 he obtained a

grant for the whole tract in his own name, and now claims
the whole surplus as his separate property.
The entry is for 1000 acres of land. The survey made
on the entry purports to be for 1000 acres of land. The
plat and certificate of survey were transferred by John
Fowler to Alexander Dunlap, by an endorsement in the following words. "I do hereby assign all my right, title, and
interest to the within land to Alexander Dunlap, and request
a grant may issue accordingly."
This is the only written evidence of the contract, and
purports to be a transfer of the whole entry and survey.
The defendant, Alexander, alleges, in hii answer, that the
original contract was 1' only for 1000 acres of land," that
after the survey he discovered the surplus and mentioned
it to Fowler, who said that he had contracted to sell but
1000 acres, and should require additional compensation for
the excess. The respondent areed to give him 300 dollars for the surplus, and Fowler's receipt for that sum, dated
the 17th of October, 1800, is annexed to the answer.
T' ough the defendant introduces into his answer the allegation that he purchased only 1000 acres of land, yet it is
remarkable, that in the first part of the same answer he states
himself to have purchased the entry. and alsQ says that the
surplus was not discovered until many years afterwards,
when the survey was made. The reservation of a surplus,
-when no surplus existed. in a contract which purported tc
be made for the entire tract, at a time when the purchase
of entries was a common transaction, and the probability
that an entry might be so surveyed as to comprehend morc
land than it called for, or so as to interfere with other entries
and lose a part of the land it covered, was a matter of gene.
ral notoriety. is so extraordinary a circu tsitance as to justify
a critical examination of the testimony by which it is sup
ported.
Alexander Dunlap. in the first instan'ce, states the contrac'
,o have been, in fact, what it purports to be, a purchase of
he entry, that is. of the entire entry. 'To reconcile thiz

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1827.
with the subsequent declaation, that "the purchase was
only of 1000 acres of land," we must suppose that, as the
entry called for that quantity, and he purchased the entry, Dunlap
V.
he might allow himself to say that he purchased only 1000 Dunlap.
acres. He drew an inference, however, which the law does
not draw, and on which he ought not to have acted until he
consulted his partner.
The defeadants also sustain their pretensions by the testimony of. ohn Fowler, whose -deposition was first taken on
the 24th of October, 1817. He identifies the receipt, and
swears that it was a.fair transaction.
His deposition is taken a second time on the 3d of August 1&19. He swears "that he sold to Alexander Dunlap 1000 acres of land within the bounds of a military survey, made in his name, as assignee of Arthur Lind, on the
Scioto river, and, afterwards, about the 7th day of October,
1800, he sold to said Alexander Dunlap, for the consideration
of 300 dollars, all the surplus contained within the bounds of
the said military survey."
This deposition states the original contract as if a survey,
not an entry, had been the subject of it , and as if the transfer had been of a specified portion of that su'.vey, not of the
whole.
On the 18th of November, 1820. a copy of the plat and
certificate ofsurvey was obtained from the general land office,
by which it appeared that the survey was made on the 20th
of October, 1796, three or four years after the entry had
been sold. "
The deposition of John Fowler was again taken on the
28th of November, 1822. He swears that in 1792, or 1793, lie
sold to Alexander Dunlap 1000 acres, part of a military survey made in the deponent's name, as assignee of Arthur Lind,
on the Scioto river, at the rate of IGpound Virginia currency per 100 acres, reserving the surplus should the said survey contain any within the bounds." Some years afterwards,
lie was informed by the late General Nathaniel Massie, -that
":the survey contained about 300 acre of surplus2. Sometime after which; he proposed to sell the said surplus to
Alexander Dunlap, who agrced to give him therefor 300
dollars.
VOL. X.
7c

CASES IN T[E SUPREME COURT
1827.
v
Dunlap
V.
Dunlap.

In this deposition the witness states a sale by the acre.
although, in his preceding depositions, lie had spoken of a
sale in gross. In his second deposition he had mentioned
the sale of 000 acres of land, - within the bounds of a military survey made in his name on the Scioto ;" plainly alluding to a survey already made. In his third deposition, he
still speaks of a military survey, but plainly speaks of it as
of one to be made in future.. He reserved the surplus, he
said, "should the said survey contain any within the
bounds." [t is also'observable, that he says he received the
information from Massie, whereas, Alexander Dunlap says.
in his answer, that he himself gave the information to Fowler. This, however, taken in itself, would not be a very
material contradiction. It might be accounted for. But
the various shapes in which Fowler places, the contract certainly show that his recollection of it was very imperfect,
and is not entitled to much credit.
The assignment which he made to Alexander Dunlap is
of the entire survey. It must be considered as an execution
of the contract he had previously made, and is written evidence of the extent of that contract. If, instead of selling
the whole survey, as the assignment imports, he had sold only
a part of it,:his natural course would have been, either to take
out the patent in his own name, and give his obligation to
convey a part when the patent should issue, or to take it out
in their joint names, entering into an agreement specifying
their respective interests, or to take some obligation from
Alexander Dunlap, binding him to re-convey the surplus. A
written contract cannot -be varied by such suspicious testiinony as that of Fowler, especially in a case which contains
within itself the strongest circumstances of probability
against the attempt
This probability is supported by other testimony than is
furnished by the contract itself. James Dunlap; the brother of John, deposes, that Alexander Dunlap told him he
and the plaintiff had purchased the tract of land in partnership, language which certainly alludes to the whole tract.
The partition, too, which was afterwards made, after an acs'ial survey for the purpose, if it divided the tract into moie.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

57t)

827.
ties, is almost coniclusive evidence that the idea of Fowler's
appellant.
the
to
occurred
then
not
had
surplus
to
the
title
V.
The counsel for the appellant endeavours to support Dunlap
Dunlap.
conspecial
the
of
independent
surplus,
the
Fowler's title to
tract, and cites some cases to show that where land has been
sold for a certain quantity, and has, in fact, amounted to
much less than the quantity mentioned, a Court of equity
has interposed and given relief. But the difference is very
material between contracts made for land in a settled country, where the titles are complete, the boundaries ascertained, and the real quantity either known, or within the reach
of the vendor, and those made for land situated as was the
whole military district at the date of this contract. It was
notoriously the general pra:tice to sell an entry or a survey
taking the chance of surplus, and the hazard of losing a part
of the land by other entries. A special contract, departing
from this general custom, ought to be in writing, or to be
very clearly proved, especially when the written evidence
of the contract conforms to this general custom.
It is, also, worthy of remark, that the entry, as it stood
when sold, could not have contained any surplus land. It
calls " to begin on the Scioto, at the lower corner of Benjamin Lawson's entry, No. 439, running down the river
1,000 poles when reduced to a straight line, thence from
the beginning with Lawson's line so far that a line parallel
to the general course of the river shall include the quantity.1
No excess ought to be anticipated from the survey of such
an entry, and the anticipation of such excess is against all
probability. The subsequent changes of the location must
be supposed to have been made by the owner of the lind,
and the survey also must have been made by his direction.
perhaps through his agent, the-locater, or according to the
judgment of the surveyor. Nothing could accrue to Fowler from a survey so made.
We are, then, entirely satisfied, that the whole tract was
purchased, and ought to be divided between the purchasers
in equal moieties, unless some partition has been made or
agreed upon between them.
It is certain, that an effort towards a partition has been

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1827.
%
Dunlap
V.

Dunlap.

made, and the questions which grow out of this effort constitute the sole difficulty in the case.
The bill charges, that before the grant was issued, the
parties divided the land in equal quantities, and the plaintiff
paid Alexander 60 dollars for chow;e of moieties, and elected to take the northern, or upper part. A dividing line
was then run, and each party took possession of his land in
severalty.
The ddfendaint admits, that there was a conversation concerning a division, that the line was partially run. and that
the plaintiff paid him 60 dollars ior choice; but insists, that
the line was only partially run, that the division was incomplete, and that the intention was to divide 1,000 acres
only.
It is, then, admitted, that some division was made, that
some line was run, that John paid Alexander 60 doilars for
choice, and chose the northern part. If that line can be
found it ought to be established, and if it has been run only
a part of the way, it ought to be continued to the outward
boundary of the tract. If it cannot be found, the land is
now to be divided into moieties in the manner then
agreed on.
James and. John Stephenson depose, that they were the
chain carriers when the survey for the purpose of a division
was made. That h dividing line was run from the back
line towards the river. They both think, that a marked
line to which they were conducted in the presence of the
parties, and of lames Hough, the surveyor, was the line
which was then run. Their opinion is founded on the continguity of the corner which was shown to them as the beginning, to a branch which is near it, and which they think
they recollect. The line was run about twenty years before they gave their depositions, which was in 1818, and
they do not know whether the line now shown them is the
true line or not.
Other testimony shows, that it cannot be the true line
The surveyor proves, that the marked tree shown as the beginning, had not. in 1821, been marked more than seven or
eight years: and all the testimonv in the cause proves. tha'

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1827.
the line ran throjigh James Dunlap's orchard, and that he
himself frequently said so. The line now claimed by him.
and supposed by the Stephensons to be the true line, woutd Dunlap
V.
not come near his orchard. It is apparent, then, that this Dunlap.
line has been made long since the division, and there is some
reason to suppose it was made by James Dunlap, rho occupied Alexander's moiety of the tract.
The place established by the Court as the beginning, is
a white oak and blue oak, standing in the western line of
the tract, and marked as a corner. Being in the line, there
could be no reason for marking them as a.ccrner unless such
had been the-fact, and the trees could be a corner only between the Dunlaps. The surveyor cut a bldck obt of the
ash, including one of the chops, and found, from marks
which are considerdd as unerring, that the chop had been
made twenty-one years ; that is, there were twenty-one
year's growth over it. This -was in December, 1718. The
chop might have been made in the autumn of 1797, or the
spring of 179g. The dividing lipe is supposed'to have been
run in 1798. A line from this point to the river, so as to
di'vde the tract equally, passes through James Dunlap's
orchard, and leaves rather more of it on the side of Johti
than would be left by the line which James Dunlap had admitted. This line is established by the decree of the Court.
The testimony is, we think, in its favour, and that there is
no error in the decree. I t is 9ffirmed, with costs.

