OF THE UNITED STATES.

18b

1827.
been ratified and acted upon by the said transcript" (of the
treasury accounts) contained in the record.
It appears to us, that, taking this evidence together, it ThorntOn
was not a conceded point, but a matter of controversy be- Wynn.
tween the parties, whether the agreement was obligatory
upon the United States,.and had become absolute by the assent of all the persons who had authority to perfect the
same. This being so, it was a matter of fact to be decided
by the jury, and the charge of the Court was erroneous in
withdrawing it from the consideration of thejury.
For this reason it is our opinion, that the judgment of the
Circuit Court was erroneous, and ought to be reversed, and
the cause be remanded, with directions to award a entrefa.rtasde novo.a

IBILL OF

EXvCANGEI eID PROMissoRy NoTE.

SALE WITL

WARRANTY.]

THORLMTON, Plaintiff in Error, against WYNr,

Defendant in

Error.
An unconditional promise, by the endorser of a bill or note, to pay it.
or the acknowledgment of his liability, after knowledge of his
discharge from his responsibility by the lacbep of the holder,
amounted to an implied waiYei of due notice of a demand from
the drawee, acceptor, or maker.
Upon a sale with a warranty of soundness, or where, by the special
terms of the contract, the vendee is at liberty to return the article
sold, an offei to return it is equivalent to an offer accepted by the
vendor, and the contract being thereby rescinded, it is a defence,
to an action for the purchase money, brought by the vendor, and
will entitle the vendee to recover it back if it has been paid.
So, if the sale is absolute, and the vendor afterwards consent unconditionally to take back the article, the consequences are the same.
But if the sale be absolute, and there be no subsequent consent to
take back the article, the contract remaln open, and the vendee
must resort to his action upon the warranty, unless it be proved that
the vendor knew of the unsoundness of the article, and the vendee
tendered a return of it within a reasonable time.
a Sie 1 Pame's Rep. ,05. S. C.

184

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1827.
'.-¢-

Thornton

This cause was argued by Mr. C. C. Lee for the plaintiffiu
. errora and by Mr. Worthington for the defendant in error.b

V.

Wynn.
Jan. 31st.

Mr. Justice WASHINGTON delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This was an action brought by the defendant in error
against the plaintiff in error, ii the Ch cuit Court for the
District of Columbia and county of Washington, upon a
promissory note given by one Miller to Thornton,. and by
him endorsed to Wynn. The declaration contains a count
upon the note, and also the common counts for money laid
out and expended, and for money had and received.
At the trial of the cause upon the general issue, the defendant below took two exceptions to the opinion of the
Court, which are to the following effect. The first states,
that the plaintiff gave in evidence the note and endorsement
mentioned in the declaration, and in order to dispense with
the proof of the ordinary steps of diligence in presenting
and demanding th note of the drawer, and giving notice to
the endorser, the plaintiff offered evidence to prove,
'hat, a few weeks before the institution of this suit, the
note in question was presented to the defendant, who, being
informed that Miller, the drawer, had not paid the note,
said, " he knew Miller had not, and that Miller was not to
pay it, that it was the concern of the defendant alone, and
Miller had nothing to do with it; that the note had been
given for part of the purchase money of a certain race
horse called Rutler, and that the defendant offered to take
up the said-note if the plaintiff's agent would give time,
and receive other *notes mentioned in payment:" to the
admission and competency of which evidence the defendant objected; but the Court overruled the objection, and
a 9 H. B1.609. .1 Voore's Rep. C. P 535. 3 Camp. 57. 11 Bast's
Rep. 114. 4 Dall. 109. 4 Taunt. 93. 1 Esp. 26h 8 East's Rep.
110. 1 H B1. 17.
b I Term Rep. 405. 2 Tern Rep. 705. 1 ,sp. 802. 12 East's
Rep. 1l1. 4 Cranch, 141. 2 Johns. Rep. 1. 7 Mass. Rep. 449. 5
Mass. Rep. 170. 11 Johns. Rep. 180. Peake's N. P Cas. 60i. 1
Tunt. 1M.

2 Term Rep. 713.

15 East's Rep. -75.

Cowp. 888.

Dougl. "24. 1 Tern& Rep. 135. 7East's Rep. 274. 2 Taunt. . 14
Johns. Rep. 416. aEast's.Rep.320.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

185

admitted the evidence as competent to support this action, 1827.
without any further proof of demand upon the drawer or \-.-'
Thornton
V.
notice to the endorser.
That the said evidence being so admitted by the Court, Wynn.
the defendant offered evidence to prove that the said note
was given for part of the purchase money of the said race
horse, then celebrated for his performances on the turf,
sold by the plaintiff to the defendant, and the said Miller,
the drawer of the note, for 3,000 dollars, of which 2,000
dollars had been paid; that the plaintiff, at the time of so
selling this horse, warranted him sound, and declared him
capable of beating any horse in the United States, and recommended the purchasers to match him against a celebrated race horse in New-York called Eclipse; that he
also gave a representation of hrs pedigree, which he described as unexceptionable, and promised to procure his
pedigree and send it to the defendant. And the defendant
then offered evidence to prove that the said horce, at the
time of the said sale, was utterly unsound, and broken down,
and had been br6ken down whilst in the.plaintiff's possession, and was reputed and proven by persons in the neighbourhood of the plaintiff, who afterwards communicated
the same to the purchaser ; and was wholly unfit for,
and incapable of, the action and fdtigue necessary to a
race horse; and that the plaintiff had wholly failed to procure and furnish the pedigree of the horse as he had agreed,
and that a pedigree was an essential term in the purchase
of the horse, or ordinarily is so in the purchase of such
horses, without which this horse was worth nothing; and
that the said Miller, as soon as it had been ascertained by
repeated trials that the horse was incurably unsound, offered
,to return him to the plaintiff, who refused to take himn back.
although the former offered to lose what he had already
paid for the ho5rse, which ofler was made after the note fell
due. Whereupon the Court instructed the jury, at the
prayer of the plaintiff. that if they should be of opinion, from
the said evidence, that the said horse was, at the time of the
said sale, utterly unsound and broken down, and had been
broken down whilst in the plaintiff's possession, and was
wholly unfit for, and incapable of, the action and fatigue nee4
VOL. XII. -

CASE$ IN THE SUPREME COURT

cessary to a race horse, but that the said facts were not
Sknown to the plaintiff at the time of the said sale. the said
Thornton facts are not a sufficient defence in this action to prevent
1827.

V.
WVynn.

the plaintiff from recovering.

Upon these instructions of the Court, the jury found a
verdict for the plaintiff, and the cause now comeb before
this Court upon a writ of error.
This bill of exceptions presents two questions for the deQuestions presented by the
bill of excep- Cision of this Court. The first is, whether the evidence of.
fered by the plaintiff, and admitted by the Court. dispensed
tions.
with the necessity of proving a demand of payTment of the
maker of the note, and due notice to Thornton of nonpayment; and, secondly, whether the Court below erred or
not, in stating to the jury that the alleged breach of the warranty of the horse, if proved to their satisfaction, was not a
sufficient defence in this action to prevent the .plaintiff from
recovering, unless the facts stated m the bill of exceptions
were-known to the plaintiff at the time of the sale.
In the argument of the first question, the counsel on both
sides considered the evidence offered by the plaintiff as presenting a double aspect. 1st. As authorizing a conclusion,
in point of fact, that the note of hand on which the suit is
brought, was made and passed to Thornton without consideration, and merely for his accommodation; and, 2d. As
amounting to a promise to pay the note, or at least to an admission by Thornton of his liability to pay it, and of the
right of the plaintiff to resort to him, whether it was made
solely for his accommodation, or was given for value in the
ordinary course of trade.
As to the first, the counsel treated the note throughout as
an accommodation note, and submitted to the decision of
this Court the question, whether the endorser of such a note
was entitled to call for proof of a demand of payment of
the maker, and notice to himself?
Whether this question was ever raised in the Court below, or in what manner it-was there treated, does not appear from the bill of exceptions. It is possible that that
Court may have intended nothing more by their direction
to the jury, than to sanction the'admissibility of the evidence,
md its sufficiency to authorize a verdict for the plaintiff.

tlF THE UN1TEI) S'ATE .

187

i827.
without other proof of demand. and notice, provided the
jury should be of opinion that it warranted the conclusion
is Thornton
that the note was gven without consideration. But such
not the language f the Court as stated in the bill of excep- Wynn,
tions. The jury were informed that the evidence was compttent to support the action without such further proof of
demand and notice, without leaving the inference of fact
that the note was given without consideration to be drawn
by the jury. Had the Court distinctly stated to the jury
that this was such a note, and, therefore, that further proof
of demand and notice was unnecessary, the incorrectness of
the direction could have been doubted by no person, since
the Court wYould, in that case, have rnferred a fact from the
evidence, which it was competent to the jury alone to do.
And yet- it seems difficult to distinguish the supposed case
from the one really presented by the bill of exceptions, upon
the hypothesis that the Court below decided any thing as to
the particular character of this note, since it is very obvious.
that no question of fact was submitted to the consideration
of the jury. It is, therefore, due from this Court to the one
whose decision we are revising, to conclude, that that decision did not proceed upon the assumption that this was a
note drawn for the accommodation of the endorser.
It remains to be considered, whether the direction was
correct upon the other aspect of the evidence.
It is now well settled as a principle of the law merchant, An uncondithat an unconditional promise by the drawer or endorser of 'nayPomia
waiver ofonoa bill, to pay it, after full knowledge of all the circumstances mounts
fice.
his
responsinecessary to apprize him of his discharge from
bility by the ]aches of the holder, amounts to an implied
waiver of due notice of a demand of the drawer or acceptor.
and dispenses with the necessity of proving it. Such are the
cases of Borrodaile v. Lowe, (4 Taunt. 93.) Donaldson v.
Mears, (4 Dall. 109.) and others -which need not be cited.
So an nSo if, with the knowledge of these circumstances, he an- knowledgment
swer, that the bill "must be paid," " that when he comes of the draner's
endorser s
to town he would set the matter right," "that his affairs or
liability lins
were then deranged, but that he would begWa'd to pay it as the sminn :or "that fet.
soon as his accounts with his agents was settled,"
he would see it paid," orif he pay a part nf the bill in all

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827. these cases it has been decided that proof of regular notice
'~v
irs dispensed with. (2 Term Rep. 713. Bull. A1.P. 276.
2 Campb. 188. 6 East, 16. 2 Stra. 1246.)
Thornton
V.
The principle upon which these decisions proceed is
Wynn.
explained in many of the above cases, and particularly in
that of Rogers v. Stephens, (2 Term Rep. 713.) It is this,
that these declarations and acts amount to an admission of
the party that the holder has a right to resort to him on the
bill, and that he had received no damage for want of notice.
See also Stark. Evzd. 272.
The same principle applies with equal force to promissory notes, which, after endorsement, partake of the character of bills of exchange, the endorser being likened to the
drawer, and the maker to the acceptor of a bill. The case
of Leffingzell S/ Pearpotnt v. White, (Johns. Cas. 99.) is
that of a promissory note, where the endorser, befor it became due, stated that the maker had absconded, and that,
being secured, he would give a new note, and requested
time. The Court say, that the defendant had admitted his
responsibility, treated the note as his own, and negotiatea
for further time for payment, by which cqnduct he had
waived the necessity of demand of the maker, and notice
to himself. (Taylor v. Jones, 2 Campb. 105. Vaughan v.
Fuller, 2 Stra. 1246. and Aman v. Bailey, Bull .N. P. 276.)
were all cases of actions on promissory notes against the
endorser. In this case, the defendant below, upon being
informed that Miller, the maker of the note, had not paid
it, observed, that he knew he had not, and that he was not
to pay it; that it was the concern of the defendant alone,
and that Miller had nothing to do with it, it having been
Knowledge of given for part of the purchase money of a horse. These
the fact of the declarations amounted to an unequivocal admission of the
iaches of the
holder is es- original liability of the defendant to pay the note, and nosential
to thine, more. It does not necessarily admit the right of the
0
charge the endorser, upon holder to resort to him on the note, and that he had received
his promise or
.tcknowledg- no damage from the want of notice, unless the jury, to whom
ment.
the conclusion of the fact from the evidence ought to have
been submitted, were satisfied that the defendant was also
apprized of the laches of the holder in not making a regular
,lemand of pavment of the note, by which he was dis-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

189

1827.
charged from.his responsibility to pay it. The knowledge
-of this fact formed an indispensable part of the plaintiff's
case, since without it it cannot fairly be inferred that the de- Thornton
fendant intenued to admit the right of the plaintiff to resort Wynn.
to him, if, in point of fact, he had been guilty of such laches
as would discharge him in point of law. For any thing
that appeared to the Court below from the evidence stated
in the bill of exceptions, the admissions of the defendant
may have been made upon the presumption that th6 holder
had done all that the law required of him in order to charge
the endorser. That due notice was not given to the defendant he could not fall to know; but that a regular demand of the maker of the note could not be inferred bj the
Court from the admissions of the defendant.
For the reasons above stated, the judgment of the Court
below must be reversed, and the cause remanded for a new
trial.
But since the second question befo're mentioned has been Question as to
the breach of
warranty
distinctly brought to the notice of this Court. has been fully the
"
theformed
sai,
argued, and must again be decided by the Court below, it Iwhich
part of the
becomes necessary that this Court should pass-'---an opinion
.
,consideration
upon it. That question is, whether the alleged breach ofof the note.
the warranty of the horse, the price of which formed part
of the consideration of the note, if proved to the satisfaction
of the jury, was a suflicient defence in this action to prevent
the plaintiff from recovering, unless the facts stated in the
bill of exceptions were known to the plaintiff llelow at the
time of the sale 9
The question is not whether the purchaser of a horse How far it
which is warranted sound, has a remedy over against the constituted a
defence to the

vendor, upon the warranty, m case it be broken, but whe- action
he note.
ther, in an action against him for the purchase money,
can be permitted to defend himself by proving a breach of
the warranty.
The cases upon this subject are principally those where
the vendee, having executed the contract on his part, by
paying the purchase money, brought an action of 2ndebitatus assumpsit against the vendor as for money had and received to his use. But it is perfectly clear, that the reasoning of the Court in those cases applies with equal force to

on the

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

190

a case where the, breach of the warranty is set up by the
as a defence against an action against him to recover
Thorntbn the purchase money.
1827.

Svendee

V.

Wynn.

The first case we meet with on this subject, is that of
,Powerv. Wells. of which a very imperfect report is to be
seen in a short note in Dougl. 24. and n Cowp. Rep. 818.
There the plaintiff gave a horse and 20 guineas to the defendant, for another horse, which he warranted to be sound,
but which proved otherwise. The plaintiff offered to return
the horse, which was refused, and the plaintiff brought two
actions, one fox money had and received, to recover back the
50 guineas which he b2-paid, and an action of trover for the
horse, possession of which the plaintiff had delivered to the
defendant. The Court decided, that neither action could
be maintained ; not the second, because the property had
been changed. This case was referred to by the Judge
who had decided it at .Wist Pnus, in the case of Weston v.
Downes, (Dougl. 23.) which soon after came before the
Court of King's Benqh. That was an action for money
had and received, and the case was, that the plaintiff had
paid a certain sum to the defendant for a pair of horses, which
the defendant agreed, at the time, to take back, if they were
disapproved of, and returned within a month. They were
returned accordingly within, the stipulated period, and another pair was sent in their stead, without any new agreement.
These were likewise rpturned, and accepted by the vendor,
and a third-pat" were sent, which being likewise offered to
be returned, the vendor refused to take them back. Lord
Mansfield was against the ac.tion, because the contract; being
a special one, the defendant ought to ho re notice.by the declaration that he was sued upon it. .Ashhurst, J., was of the
same opimon, but added, that if the plaintiff had demanded
ismoney on the return of the first pair df horses, this action
would have lain, but that the contract was continued.; from
which expression 'nothing more is understood to have been
meaqt, than that the contract remained open. The ground
upon which Buller, J., thought that the action could not be
maintained was, that, by refusing to take back the horses,
the defendant had not precluded himself Prom entering into

OF THE UNITED STATES1827.
the nature of the contract, and that, whenever that is open,
it must be stated specially.
The meaning of these latter expressions is distinctly stated Thornton
V.
by the Court, and particularly by this judge. in the case of Wynn.
Towers v. Barret, (1 Term Rep. i123.) which followed next
in order of time4 that was also an action for money had
and received. The money was paid for a horse and ch ise,
to be returned in case the plaintifs wife shrot!d not approve of them. They were accordingly sent back to the
defendant in three days after the sale, and left on his premises
against his consentto receive them.
Lord Mansfield, Ch. J., and Willis, J., distinguish this
case from that of Weston v. Downes, upon the ground that
that was an absolute, and this a conditional agreement, which
was at an end by the return of the horse and chaise, and was
no longer open. Both the judges treat the case as if the
vendor had taken back the property, although, in fact, he
had not consented to do so. Ashhurst, J. was of opinion,
that this case would have resembled that of Weston v.
Downes, -if,in that, the plaintiff had returned the horses.
It is very clear, from what was said by the same judge in that
case, that his meaning in this was, if the plaintiff had returned the first pair of horses, and then demanded his money, for, he adds, that in that case there was an end of the
first contract by the plaintiff's taking other pairs, and this
constituted a new contract, not made on the terms of the
first. But in this case. the contract was conditional, and
when the horse and chaise were returned, the contract
was at an end, and the defendant held the money against
conscience. Bulleri J., is still more explicit. He says, that
the defendant, by the contract,had put it in the power of the"
plaintiff to terminate it, by returning the horse and chaise,
and that the plaintiff had no option to reffise to take them
back; and that, being bound to receive them, the case was
the same as if he had actually accepted them. He adds,
that the distinction between those cases where the contract
is open, and where it is not, is, that if it be rescinded, either
by the original terms of the contract, as in this case, where
no act remains to be done by the defendant, or by a subsequent assent by him, the plaitiff may recover back his whoJr

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827. money, and then this action will lie. But if it be open, the
plaintiffIs demand is only for damages arising out of the
Thornton
contract.
V.
Wynn.
The Court proceeded upon this distinction in deciding
the case of Payne v. Whale, (7 .East's Rep. 274.) which followed the one just noticed. The action was to recover back
money paid to the defendant for a horse sold by him to the
plaintiff, which he warranted sound. The plaintiff offered
to return the horse upon an allegation of his unsoundness,
which the defendant denied, and refused to take him back,
but agreed that, if he was in fact unsound, he would take
him back, and return the purchag money. The unsoundness was proved at the trial, but the Court was of opinion,
that the action could not be .supported, and distinguished
this case from the preceding one by observing, that in that
the plaintiffhad an option, by the ortgtnalcontract,to rescind
it on a cer# in event; but, here, it was no part of the original coiitract that the horse was to be taken back ; and that
the sub eanuent promise amounted to no more than that he
would take him back if the warranty were shown to be
broken, whith still left the question of warranty open for
discussion, and then the form of the action ought to give the
defendant notice of it by being brought upon the warranty.
The case of Lewts v. Congrave, (2 Taunt. 2.) was precisely like the present, in which the same distinction, and
the same principles, were recognised by the judge who tried
the cause at tVh Prtus. It was an. action on a bill drawn
for the price of a horse, which, on the sale of hun, was warranted sound, but turned out not to be -so. The defendant
offered to return the horse, whici was refused, and the defendant left him in the plaintiff's stable without his knowledge. The judge decided, that as the plaintiff had refused.
to take back the horse, the contract of sale was not rescinded, and, consequently, that the defendant must pay the bill,
and take his remedy, by action for the deceit. But upon a
rule to show cause why a new trial should not be granted,
the Court sprd, that it was clear the plaintiff knew of the
unsoundness of the horse, Which was clearly a fraud, and
'hat no man can recover the price of an article sold under a

OF THE UNITED STATES.

193

fraud. See also the cases of Fortunev. Lingham, (2 Campb.
1827.
0P\4,
416.) and Solomon v. Turner, (1 Stark. 51.)
The result of the above cases is this: if, upon a sale with Mallow
a warrafity, or if, by. the special terms of the contract, the Hinde.
-vendeeis at liberty to return the article sold, an offer to re- General result
ttrn it is equivalent to an offer accepted by the vendor, and, of the authoin that case, the contract is rescinded and at an end, which itdes.
is a sufficient defence to an action brought by the vendor
for the purchase money, or to eniable 'the vendee to maintain
an action for money had and received n case the purchase
money has been paid. The consequences are the same
where the sale is absolute, and the vendor afterwards consents, unconditiqpally, to take back the property, because,
in both. the contract is rescinded by the agreemenf of the
parties, and the vendee is well entitled to retain the purchase money in the one case, or to recover it back in the
other. But if the sale be absolute, and there be no subsequent ugreement or consent-of the vendor to take baclk the
article, the contract remains open, and the vendee is put to
his action upon the warranty, unless it be prov~d that the
vendor knew of the unsoundness of the article, and the
vendee tendered a return of it within a reasonable time.
We are, therefore,- of opinion, that the direction of the
Court in this case, upon the second exception, was entirely
correct. TheJudgment is to be reversed, and the, cause remanded to the Court below for a Rew trial.

[PA~cTIcz.]

MALLow and Others against HiNDE.
Where an equity cause may be finally decided as between the parties
litigant, without bringing others before the Court, who would, generally speaking, ae necessary parties, such parties may be dispen-

sed with in the Circuit Court, if its proofs cannot reach them. or ;f
they are citzens of another state.
Vror. XI!. "
r

