CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.

of the Judiciary Act of 1789, ch. 20. the case having been

~ remanded to-the Circuit Court of Harfison for further pro-

Post Master ceedings.a
General
V.
Early.

Motion allowed.

[CONSTITUTIoNA.

LANK.1

THE POST MASTER GENERAL OP THE UNITED STATES

agatnst EARLY and Others.
The Circuit Courts of the Umon have jurisdiction, under the constitution, andi the acts of April 80th, 1810, ch. 969. s. 29., and of
March 1d, 1815, ch. 782. s. 4., of suits brought in the name of

",
the Post Master General of the United States," on bonds given
to the Post Master General by a deputy Post Master, conditioned

"to pay all moneys that shall come to his hands for the postages of
whatever is by liw chargeable with postage, to the Post Master
General of the United States for the time bei, deducting, only
the commission and allowances made by law for his care, trouble,
and charges, in managing the said office," &c.
The Post Master General has authority to take such a bond, under
the different acts establishing and regulating the Post Office department, and particularly under the act of April *Both, 1810, ch.
-6. s. 29. 42.
THIS was an action of debt, commenced in the Circuit
Court for the district of Georgia, by the District Attorney
of the United States for that district, in the name of the
Post Master General of the United States, oanst the defendants, on a bond executed by them, in Juti 1820, to the
Post Master General of the United St~tes, the condition of
which, after reciting that Eleazer Early (one of the coobligors and defendants in the suit) is Post Master at Savannah. provides, that if he shall perform the duties of his
office, "and shall pay all moneys that shall come to his
hands for the postages of whatever
is by law chargeable
I
er He cited Gibbons v. Ogden, 6 What. Rep. 448.

OF THE UNITED ST-ATES.

with postage, to the Post Master General of the United 1827.
States for the time being, deducting only the commission
Master
and allowances, made by law, for his care, trouble, and Post
-General
V.
charges, in man'aging the said office," &c. " then the above
obligation shall be void." The breach assigned was, that Early.
the said E. Early did'not pay to the Post Master General
the moneys which came to his hands&, as post master at Savannah, but that the sum of 7,736 dollars and 64 cents was
still in arrear and unpaid. The defendants pleaded to the
jurisdiction of the Court, that this was " not a suit in which
the United States are a party, nor is the debt declared on
one contracted, authorized, or arising, under a law of the
United States, and over which jurisdiction has been given
to this honourable Court." Oh the argument of the cause
in the Court below, the opinions of the judges of that Court
were opposed upon the question of jurisdiction, and it was
certified to this Court for a final decision.
The cause was argued by the .4ttorney General and Mr. Marck 9tho
Wiseaton, for the plaintiff and by Mr. Webster and Mr.
Berrzen, for the defendants.
On the part of the plaintiff, it was contended, (1.) that
the laws of the United States gave, and were intended to
give, the jurisdiction how in question., If there was any
apparent discrepancy in the laws on the subject, it grew out
,of the fact, that the post office department existed long
before the establishment of the present constitution, and
Congress had dealt with it as an existing institution of the
government The laws now in force, and the usage which
had grown up under them, of the Post Master.General
taking bonds lo secure the official good conduct of his deputies, and ltringing suits on thenr in the Courts of the
Union,'would be best explained by a recurrence to thi historicat fact. The Post Office Act of April .30th, 1810,
ch. 262. s. 29. which ipsa consolidation of the former laws
on the subject,.directs the Post Master General to "cause a
suit to be commenced.agamnst a y post master \Vho does not
a Osborn v. The Bank of the United'States, 9 Wheat. AeT. 758.
825. 901, 902.
IToL. XlI.

-

i.

LASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827. render his quarterly accounts, and pay over the balance to
Post Master General." And provides.," that all suits
'the
Post Mister which shall hereafter be commenced for the recovery'of
General
debts or balances due to the general post office, whether
v.
they appear by bond or obhgattons made in the name of the
Early,
existing, or any preceding, Post Master General, or otherwise, shall be instituted -in the natme of the Post Master General of the United States." The 42d section of the same
act repeals the former post office laws, with a proviso, saving
suits and the bonds given by deputy post masters for the faithful execution pf their several duties and offices; The act
of the 3d of March, 1815, ch. 782. s. 4. declares, "that the
District Courts of the United States shall have cognizance,
concurrent with the Courts and magistrates of the several
States, and the Circuit Courts of the United States, of all
suits at common law, where the United States, or any officer
thereof, under the authority of any act of Congress, shall
4ue, although the debt, claim, or matter in dispute, shall not
amount to 100 dollars." It was admitted that the clause
giving the jurisdiction to the Circuit Courts, was awkwardly
exprcssed in this last sbction, which seemed to have beea
drawn upon the supposition that the jurisdiction already rerided in those Courts, yet it was insisted that this was
equivalept to a declaration of the legislative will, that it
should be exercised by them, since the District Courts could
not have a concurrent jurisdiction with the Circuit Courts
in such suits, unless the latter had, by law, cognizance of
the same. If it should be objected, that though the Circuit
Courts might have cognizance of actions where any officer
of the United States sues under the authority of any act
of Congrcss,. yet there ii no such act authorizing the Post
Master General to take the bond, on which this suit was
'brought: it was answered, that the authority to sue on such
a bond, given in the 29th section of the act of 1810, is an
implied authority to take it, and a legislative recognition of
the notorious pre-dxisting practice of office, whigh is also
strongly confirmed by the proviso in the 42d section, saving
all suits and the bonds given by post masters. Even if it were
doubtful whether he could take a bond for the faithful discharge, by his deputies, of their official duties, without an

OF THE UNITED STATES.

139,

express authority by law, a bond might certainly be taken to 1827.
secure the payment -of moneys due to the government m
the post offico department, as well as to an individual, or to Post Master
General
V.
a corporation., A mere voluntary bond, taken at common
law, for a purpose not unlawful, and adapted as means to Early.
attain the end contemplated by the statute, would be valid,
and a suit might be maintained upon it in a Court of competent jursdiction.6
2. If, then, the bond was a lawful bond, and the Post
Master General was authorized to cause a suit to be commenced on it in his official name, and if the intention of
Congress to vest jurisdiction over such suit in the Circuit
Courts was sufficiently manifested, the only remaining question would be, wrether the laws conferring this jurisdiction
were consistent with the constitution, by which the judicial
power is extended to " all cases in law and equity ansing
under 0ae laws of the United States," and to "contro v erms
to which the United States shall be aparty." That this was
a case arising under the laws of the Union, was self-evident;
and that it was a contronersy to which the United States is a
party, would appear from an examination of the record.
The suit is brought by the District Attorney of the United
States, in-the name of the Post Master General, not for his
own benefit, but as th public agent of t6e government, and
a trustee for the United States. The acts of public officers,
'within the sphere of their authority, are the acts of the go.
vernment; and the money to be recovered being the property of the United States when recovered, the United States
are parties to the suit.0 There was a distinction between a formal party to the suit, and a substantial party to
the controversy. This distinction might be illustrated by
the ordinary principle applicable to assignments of choses
in action, where the suit is brought by the assignee in the
name of the assignor, but the latter cannot control it."d So.
a Dugan v. United States, 5 Wheat. Rep 172.
6 Z Lord Raym 1459. S. C. Z Sr. 745. 2 Dal. 192. 5 Bin.
292. I M.ass. Rep. 567. 1 Peters' C. Rep. 47.
p. "Zt.
c Osborn v. The Bank of the United States, 9"7'at.
0 1 Wheat. Rep. s5. 1,Wheat. Rep. 277

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
also, the assignee of-the crown has a right to sue in the
of the crown.a There the crown is no party to the
Post Master controversy, though a party to the suit. Here the Post
General
Master General is the nominal party on the record, but
v.
the United States is the real party to the controversy. In
Early,
1827.

Sname

the case of Brozon v. Strode, where the suit was brought
in the name of " the justices of the peace for the county
of Stafford," who were citizens of Virginia, against the
diafendant, a citizen of the same State, to recover a debt
due to a British subject, the alien was there considered
as the substantial party to the suit, it being brought for his
benefit.3 So, in England, many suits in which the public
is concerned, are not brought in the name of the crown.
Thus, at common law, independent of any statutory provis-on, the Attorney General exhibits, in his own name, an information of debt, which is called the king's action of debt;
or, if a discovery is wanted, an English information in the
Exchequer, called the king's bill in equity. Here the Attorney General is the nominal party, whilst the crown is the
substantial party for whose benefit the suit is brought.' And
the prosecutions under the revenue laws are frequently
brought by the commisioners of excise and the customs,
ofr by their order, in the name of the Attbrney General, or,
in minor cases, by the inferior officers of the revenue ; but
the public is always considered as the substantial party to
the suit."
For the defendants, it was argued, that whatever might
be the extent of the judicial power as defined in the constitution, the tribunals inferior to the Supreme Court, and
created by Congress, could only exercise such jurisdiction
as was expressly conferred upon them by statute. But, it
was insisted, that this was not "a case arising under the
lawA of the United States," nor "a controversy to which
the United States are a rarty." And, in this view, it was
d Gro. Jac. 82.
b 5 Cranch, 803.

c Bmnb. 95. 269. 558. 23. Parker, 87. .79. Hale, in Hargr.
.. Ansr.558. Coop.Eq. Fl. 21, 22. Mitf. PI.
Law Tracts,
2z. Barton's Eq. 59.
d 2 Jast'sRep. 302. 1 Chitty's Coi. Law, 01. 84.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

insisted, (1.) that there was no law of Congress which, in
terms, required or authorized the Post Master General to
take the bond on which the suit was brought.

1827.

There was, Post Master

indeed, no express inhibition of such a bond.. but the supposed implied authority to take it was negatived by the obvious policy of the post office laws. That policy was to
secure the collection of the dues to the department by requiring prompt settlements, enforced by the personal re-

sponsibility of the Post Master General, as provided in the
29th section of the act of 1810. It was not meant to rely
upon this provision as constituting a ground of defence for
a deputy post master sued by the Post Master General for
official negligence, upon the prrmary obligation imposed on
him by accepting the office, and not accounting for the public moneys received in his official capacity. It was only
contended, that it excluded the idea of thC Post Master General being authorized to take a security not expressly authorized by the law, from an agent appointed by him, removable by him, anid accountable to him. This inference
was supported by'the new provision inserted in the 3d section of the amended post office act of iR15, expressly authorizing and requiring him to take such a bond. This was
a legislative declaration, negativing the right under any preexisting statute. The question here was not, whether this
might not be good as a voluntary bond at common law.
Without stopping to inquire whether the United States have
a system of unwritten law, to which an official, bond, not
authorized by any statute of Congress, can be referred for
its validity, it was said that the cases cited to show that the
bond might be sustained at common law, were foreign- to
the present inquiry. This ws a question of jurisdiction,
which depended upon the other question, whether this bond,
(admitting it to be valid at common law,) wher" made the
foundation of an action, presented a case arising under the
laws of the United States. To make ita case arising under
those laws, the bond must not only be valid, but must be
authorized by statute; and the case could no more be said
to arise under the laws of the United States, than that of a
voluntary bond taken by the marshal. or the collector. from
their deputies.

General
v.
la1y.

CASES'IN THE SUPREME COURT

142

2. But even supposing the bond in question was authoriged
.gto be taken by the laws of the United States, jurisdiction of
Post Master a suit brought upon it could only be vested in the Circuit
General
V.
Court by some expreds legislative enactment. Though
E'arlY, the case may be included in the constitutional grant ofjurisdiction, some act of Congress is necessary to enable the
Courts to 'exercise it.4 So far from Congress having conferred this jurisdiction on the Circuit Courts, the Post Office
Act, whilst it is silent as to the Courts of the Union, expressly
confers iton the State Courts. As to the JudiCiary Act of
1815,-s. 4. the title of that act shows the intention of Congress to limit its operation to the State Courts and to the
District Courts of the United States. If it can be construed to extend to the Circuit Courts of the Union, its effect is merely to give them jurisdiction in the specified cases
where "the debt, claim, or matter in dispute, shall not
amount to 100 dollars." The words "concurrent with the
Circuit Courts," were not intended to give jurisdiction to
those Courts. Similar expressions are found in the 9th and
11th sections of the Judiciary Act of 1789, but it had never
been supposed that such was their effect. It is possible
that the act was passed, upon the mistaken supposition that
the jurisdiction was already vested in the Circuit Court.
But this could not make the law, aid the Court would not
construe this particular act contrary to its plain intent, however erroneous the opinion which produced it.
3. The remaining question was, whether the United
States were a party to the suit. And even admitting that
the proceeds would accrue to their benefit, that the money
which the bond was given to secure was their money, forwhich assumpsit could have been maintained against the
principal obligor in their name; still, as it regarded the coobligors or sureties, this was a new contract, not depending
on any pre-existing debt, liability, or obligation from them
to the United States. Their obligation arises exclusively
from the bond, which binds them to the Post Master Geteral
alone; no action could be maintained against them by the
1827.

'.

-

a Bank of the United States v. Deveaux, 7 Cranch 85. M1'In-.

tire r. Vood. 7 Cranch 503

OF THE UNITED STATES.

143

United States, upon the bond, or in the form of an express 187.
or implied assumpsit to recover the money, the payment of .
-which the bond was intended to secure. Could, then, the Post Master
General
V.
United States he considered as parties to the suit, for the
purpose of giving the Court a jurisdiction, which it would Early.
not take if they were, in fact, parties to the suit, or, (in the
words of the Judiciary Act of 1789,) "plaintiffs or petitioners ?" The jurisdiction, as derived from the character
of the parties, must depend, not on the question who is the
substantial party in interest, but who is the formal party on
the record., Independent of the circumstance that the
United States had no interest on the face of the bond, which
would entitle them to maintain an action on it, they are inhibited from being parties to the suit, even as against the
principal obligor, by the express provisions of the Post
Office Act of 1810, s. 29., which directed that all such suits
"shall be commenced in the name of the Post Master General of the United States." Even supposing, therefore,
that Congress has legislated upon the unfounded assumption
that the jurisdiction was already vested in the Circuit Court,
or supposing that the case is a casus omzssus, can the judicial power correct the mistake, or supply the defect 7 Even
in the case. of choses in action, assigned to the United States
as collateral security for debts due to the government, the
defect of jurisdiction was incontestible, and attended with
great practical inconvemences; and yet Congress has recently refused to supply it, by authorizing suits upon such
securities to be brought in the Courts of the Union. The
case of Dugan v. The United States,6 went upon the ground,
that in all cases of contract with the United States, they
had a right to enforce it by an action in their own names,
unless a different mode of suit was prescribed by law.
But if, in that case, the treasurer of the United States had
been authorized and required to sue, in his official name, on
all bills which should be endorsed to him for account of the
government, would this Court have sustained jurisdiction
of an action brought on such bills by the United States ii
their own name?
a Osborn v. Bank of the United States, 9 lFhwt. Rep. 855-857
b 5 wheat Rep. 17!.

144

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1827.
\Court,

Post Master
General
V.

Early,

Mr. Chief Justice MARShALL delivered the opinion of the
and after stating the case, proceeded as follows.
The post office department was established at the cornmencement of the revolution, under the superintendence of

a Post Master General, who was authorized to appoint his

March 15th. diputies, and was made responsible for their conduct. Soon
History of the after the adoption of the present government, in September,
post
oificd 1789, Congress passed a temporary act, directing that a
laws.
Post Master General should be appointed, and that his powers, and, the regulatibns of his office, should be the same as
they last were," under the resolutions and ordinances of the
last Congress." The power of appointing deputies, therefore, and the responsibility for their conduct, still remained
with the Post Master General.
This act was continued -until the first day of June, 1792.
In February, 1792, an act was passed detailing the duties
and powers of the Post Masfer General, and fixing tle rates
of postage. It directs his deputies to settle at the end of
every three months, and to pay upthe moneys in their iands;
on-failure to do which, it becomes the duty of the Post Master General "to cause a suit to be commenced against the
.person or persons so neglecting or refusing.. And if the
Post Master General shall not cause such suit to be commenced within three months from the end of every such
three months, the balances due from every such delinquent
shall be charged to and recoverable from hnm." This act
was to take effect on thefirst of June, 1792, and to continue
for two years, In May, 1794, a permanent act was passed.
It fetans the provision requiring the Post Master General to
settle quarterly with his deputies, but omits that which
makek it his duty to cause suits to be instituted within three
months after failure:
In March, 1799, the subject was again taken up, and
Congress passed an act, which retains the clause makirg it
the duty Qf the deputy post masters to ettle their accounts
quarterly, and reinstates that which directs the Post Master
General to cause suits to be instituted against delinquents;
substituting six months -nthe place of three, after the expiration of the quarter, under the penalty of being himself
chargeable with the arrears due froni such delinquent. Thi-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

145

1827.
act declres, that all causes of action arising under it may
be sued before the judicial Courts of the several States, and
Post Master
of the several territories of the United States.
General
v.
In April, 1810, Congress passed an act for regulating the
Early.
post office establishment, which enacts, among other things,
that all suits thereafter to be brought for the recovery of Effect of the
"c Ofin1810.
debts -or balances due to the general post office, should be taken
coninstituted -in the name of "the Post Master-General of the nexlon with
the Judiciar
United States." This act also authorizes all causes of ac- Act of 1815,
4. uponof the
tion arising under it to be sued in the Courts of the States s.
question
ji.
rzsdiction.
and teriftories.
In March, 1815, Congress passed "an act to vest more
effectually in the State Courts, and in the District Courts of
the United States, jurisdiction in the cases therein mentioned."
This act enables the State Coarts to take cognizance of
all suits -arising under any law for the collection of any direct tax or internal duties of the United States. The 4th
section contains this clause: "And be it further enacted,
that the District Court of the United States shall have cognizance, concurrent with the Courts and magistrates of the
several States, and the Circuit Courts of the United States,
bf all suits at common law where the United States, or any
officer thereof, under the authority of any act of Congress,
shall sue, although the debt; claim, or other matter in dispute, shall not aniount to one hundred dollars." On these
several acts the question of jurisdiction depends.
The suit. is brought for money due to the United States
and, at any time previous t the act of 1810. the suit for the
money, had no bond been taken, might have been brought in
the name of the United' States. It is not certain that, independent of the bond, it could have been instituted in the
name of any other party. The Courts of the United States,
had, of course, jurisdiction. The laws make it the duty of
the Post Master General to "cause suits to be. instituted,"
not to bring them; and it was not until March, 1799, that
Congress authorized these suits to be instituted in the State
Courts. It is obvious, that the right to institute them in
'hose Courts, anterior to the passage of that act, was doubted, at any rate, was not exercised. for it could not bavt10
Wit.. Xlf.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.

been deemed necessary to give expressly the power to. sue
those Courts, ha the power been admitted to exist, and
Post Master been commonly exercised. We must suppose, then, that
General
V.
these suits were usually instituted in the Courts of the UniEarly. td States , and no doubt could be entertained on the ques'in

tion of jurisdiction, if they were brought, as they certainly
mighthave been, in the name of the United States.
The act of 1810 directed, that all suits for debts, or balances due to the general post office, shoild be brought in
the name of the Post Master -General. The -manner in
which this change in the style of the suit might affect jurisdiction, was not noticed, and no provision was made for this
new state of things. These debts and-balance, which were
due to the general post office, were not due to the officer
personally, but to the office, and were to be sued for, and
collected for the United States. The money belonged to
the nation, not to the individual by whose agency it was to
be bkiought into the treasury. The whole course of opinion,
and of legislation, on this subject, is, that, although for convenience, and to save expense to the debtors, recourse may
be had to the State Courts for the recovery of small sums,
yet a right to resort to the Courts of the Union in suits for
money due to the United States. was never intended to be
relinquished. If the effect of any provision in a statute be
to abolish this jurisdiction, it must be an effect which was
neither intended nor foreseen. That construction which
will produce a consequence so directly opposite to the whote
spirit of .our legislation, ought to be avoided, if it can be
avoided without a total disregard of those rules by which
Courts of justice must be governed.
If the question had rested solely on the act of 1810, it is
probable that the did of the legislature might have been
thought indispensable to the jurisdiction of 'the federal
Courts, over suits brought for the recovery of debts and
balances due to the general post office. But it does not rest
solely on that act. The act of 1815 contains a clause which
does, we think, confer this jurisdiction. It cannot be doubted that this clause vests jurisdiction expressly ii the District
Courts, in all suits at common law where any officer of the
United States sues under the authority of. any act of Con-

OF THE UNITED STATEIS.

147

1827
The Post Master Generai is an officer of the Uni.,
ted States, who sues under the authority of the act of 1810, \-which makes it his duty to sue for debts and balances due PostMaster
General
v.
to the office he superintends, and obliges him to sue in his
Early.
own name.
The jurisdicIt has been contended, thatthis clause, if it gi'vesjurisdic- tion
not limitto sums less
ed
hundred
one
under
tion, gives it only where the demand is
100 doldollars. We do not think the words will sustain this criti- than
lars.
cism.
The right to take cognizance of suits brought by any officer of the United States, under authority of any act of
Congress, is first given in general words, comprehending
sums to any amount. The limitation which follows is not a
proviso that ihe sum shall not exceed the sum of one hundred dollars ; it is no restriction on the previous grant, but
an enlargement of it, if an enlargement should be thought
necessary. This act might be construed, in connexion with
the Judiciary Act of 1789, and a general clause givingjurisdiction might be limited as to amount to the sum mentioned
in the 9th section of that act. The subsequent words,
therefore, of the section we are considering, were introduced
for the purpose of obviating this construction, and removing
the doubt, wfiich might otherwise exist, of the right to take
cognizance of sums less than one hundred dollars. After
giving the jurisdiction generally, the words are, " although
*thedebt, claiim, or other matter iii dispute, shall not amount
to one hundred dollars." These words do not confine the
jurisdiction previously given to one hundred dollars, but
&revents it from stopping at that sum.
The jurisdiction of the District Courts, then, over stits
brought by the Post Master General for debts and balances
due the general post office, is unquestionable. Has the
Circuit Court jurisdiction ?
The language of the act is, that the District Court shall
have cognizance concurrent with the Courts and magistrates
of the several States, and the Circuit Courts of the United
States, of all suits," &c. What is the meaning and purport
of the words " concurrent with" the-Circuit ,Courts of the
United States 9 Are they entirely senseless? Are they to
h excludea from the clause in which the legislature has m.

gress.

CASES LN THE SUPREME COURT

10 7. serted them, or are they to be taken into view, and allowed
Sthe effect of which they are capable 7
PostMaster
The words are certainly not senseless. They have a
General

plain and obvious meaning. And it is, we think. - ,ile,
that words which have a meaning, are not to be enti,'ely disregarded in construing a statute. We cannot, understand
this clause as if these words were excluded from it. They,
perhaps, manifest the opinion el the le6islature. that the
.jurisdiction was in the Circuit Courts, but ought, we think,
to be construed to give it, if tt did not previously exist.
Any other construction wodld destroy the effect of those
words. The District Court cannot take cognizance concurrent with the Circuit Courts, unless the Circuit Courts
can take cognizance of the same suits. Fbx one body to
do a thing concurrently with another, is to act in conjunction with that other; it is equivalent to saying, the one may
act together with the other. The phrase may imply, that
power was previously given to that other; but if, in fact, it
had not been given, the words are capable of imparting it.
If they are susceptible of this construction, they ought to
receive it, because they will otherwise be totally inoperafive, or will contradict the other parts of the sentence,
which show plainly the intention, that the District Court
shall have cognizance of the subject, and shall take it to the.
same extent with the Circuit Courts.
of It has been said, and perhaps truly, that this section was
Operation
l
eg isl a tive....
enactmient, not framed with the intention of vesting jurisdiction in the
V.
Early,

having the ef- Circuit Courts. The title of the act, and the language.of
claratory ae, the sentence, are supposed to concur in
sustaining this proas to the future, though position. The title speaks only of State.and District Qourts.
mnoperatie on But it is well settled, that the title cannot restrain the enacting clause. It is true that the language of the section mdi.
:he past.
cates the opinion, that jurisdiction existed in the Circuit
Courts, rather than an intention to give it; and a mistaken
opinion of the legislature concerning the law, does not make
law.

gut if this mistake is manifested in words competent to
make the law in future, we know of no principle which can
deny them this efihet. The legislature may pass a declaratorv act. wh:ch. though, inoperative on the past, may act

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1827.
in fhture. This law expresses the sense of the legislature
.-.--.
on the existing law, a. plainly as a declaratory act, and exMaster
presses it in terms capable of conferring the jurisdiction. Post
General
V.
We think, therefore, that in a case plainly within the judicial power of the federal Courts, as prescribed in the con- Early.
stitution, and plainly within the general policy of the legislature, the word, ought to receive this.construction.
So far as the sui6 btou-ht by-the Poqt Master General
were referred to in argument, in the case of The Bank of
the United States v. Osborn, this construction was assumed as
unquestionable. As the act was referred to for the sole purpose of illustrating the argument on the point then under
consideration, it was not examined with the attention which
has since been bestowed upon it, but the opinion then expressed, that the sectionwe have been considering conferred jurisdiction on the Courts of the United States over
suits brought by the Post Master General, was correct.
Had this suit been brought to recover the balance due
from the deputy post master, on his original liability to pay
the money in his hands, no doubt would have been felt
respecting the jurisdiction of the Court. The act of 1810
gives the Post Master General a right to sue for such balances, and the act of 1815 er:ables him to sue in the Circuit or District Courts of the United States. But it is contended that he has no right to secure such balances by
bond; and, consequently, the bond being unauthorized, the
act of Congress cannot be construed to authorize a suit
upon it.
Were it even true that an official'bond cannot be taken
in a case where it is not expressly directed by law, we do
not think that a bond taken to secure the payment of a samn
of money is void, because it is also an official bond. Even
pupposing this bond to be void, so far, as it is intended to
stipulate for the performance of official duties, it is not necessarily void, so far as it stipulates for the payment of money of the United States, which might come to the hands of
the deputy post master. That part of the condition which
shows the bond was taken to secure the payment of money
"which should be received for the United States, is not vitiated by that part of it which shows that it was also taken

CASES IN THE SUPRETME COUWL

to secure the general official conduct of the deputy Now.
a part of the condition is expressly "that if be shall pay
Post Master all moneys that shall come to his hand,, for the posiages of
1827.

General

whatsoever is by law chargeable with postage," then the
obligation is to be void. The obligation itself, on which

v.
Early.

the suit is brought, was intended to secure the payment of
money collected for the United States, as well as the official
conduct of the deputy, and as no law prohibited such an
official bond, we cannot think, although it might not in itself
be valid, that it would'destroy an obligation taken for a legitimate purpose. As the breach assigned is altogether in
the non-payment of the money collected, we do not think
that, if a bond would be good, taken for this single object,
it is made bad by being extended also to the official conduct
of the obligor.
The inquiry then is, whether, under a fair construction of
The Post Master General
take the acts of Congress, the Post Master General may take
may
bands to sty
cure thsp:;- bonds to secure the payment of money due, or whih may
ment of me- become due, to the general post office.

neys due

to

the
general
POSt o*fce

All the acts relative to the post office, make it the duty of
the Post Master General to superintend the department, to
regulite the conduct and duties of his deputies, and to collect the moneys received by them for the general post office.
May not these powers extend to taking bonds to the officer
who is to perform them 9 May not these bonds be considered as means proper to be used in the collection of debts,
and in securing them "
If this interpretation of the words should be too free for
ajudicial tribunal, yet if the legislature has made it, if Congress has explained its own meaning too unequivocally to
be mistaken, their Courts may be justified in adopting that
meaning.
The 22d section of the act of 1799, after directing the
Post Master General to sue for all balances due from his
deputies, within six months after the expiration of the.three
months within which they-ought to have been paid, enacts,
"that all suits, which shall be hereafter commenced for the
recovery of dobts or balances due to the general post office,
whhether they-appear by bond or obligations made m- the
name of the existing or any preceding Post Master General.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1827.
or otherwise, 'shall be instituted in the name of the Post
Master General of,4he United States."
Master
These words follow immediately the clause which makes Post
General
V.
it the duty of the Post Master General to sue for the money
Early.
due from his deputies, and are obviously applied to the moneys in their hands. They show -the sense of the legislature,
that. this money may be a "debt" or a "balance," may "appear by bond or obligation," or otherwise, and are, we think,
a legislative exposition of the words, describing the power
and duty of the Post Master General in the superintendence
of his department, and the ndans he may employ for collecting the money due fi-om his deputies.
The 3;st section of the same act, repeals the previous
laws for establishing the post office department, after the Ist
day of the ensuing May; and adds a proviso to +he repealing clause, that as to "all bonds, contracts, debts, demands, rights, penalties, or punishments. which have been
made, have arisen, or have been incurred," &c. "the said
acts shall have the same effect, as if this acthad not been
made.Z'
It is said by the counsel for the defendants, that these
words do not give efficacy to the bonds to which they refer,
but leave them as they were anterior to the repealing act.
This is true. But they explain the sense of the legislature,
respecting the powers of the Post Master General; and the
manner in which he might execute those powers.
An additional proviso extends even to official bonds. After
continuing'the Post Master General and all his deputies in
office, it adds, "and also the bonds which they or either of
them have or may give for the faithful execution of their
several duties, shall continue to have the same force and effect, -to all intents and purposes, after the 1st day of May
next, as though this act had not been made."
This proviso, also, is no more than a recogaition of the
validity of those bonds ; but it is a recognition of it, and
goes the full extent of showing the legislative opinion that
they might be taken. The act of 1810 repeals former acts,
and contains the same provisions on this subject with the
act of 1799.
The Court has felt the pressure of this part of the case

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1827.
%
Post Master
General
T.
Early.

There is always difficulty in extending the operation of
words beyond their plain import, but the cardinal rule of
construction is, that where any dou~bt exists, the intent of
the legislature. if it can be plainly perceived, ought to be
pursued. It is also a rule, that the whole law is to be taken
together, and one part expounded by any other, which may
indicate the meaning ann~exed by the legislature itself to ambiguous phrases. The words describing the power and duty of the Post Master General. may be expounded by other
parts of the act showing the legislative opinion as to their
extent; and if this be true, the sections which have been
cited cannot be misunderstood. They show plainly that
the legislature supposed it had given the Post Master General authority to take these boiids.
A case cannot exist, in which effect may be given to the
legislative intent more safely than in this. The bonds are
taken in a case where uo doubt can exist respecting the right
and propriety of giving authority to take them; they are
for money due to the United States; and the opinion of the
legislature that authority was given, is expressed in as plain
words as can be used. The acts of Congress sustain the
opinion, that they have been taken with the knowledge and
approbation of the legislature, from the first establishment
of the offices ; and provision is made by law for their being
until
put in suit. The Courts of the United States have,
on them. k
very lately, uniformly given judgments
Under these circumstances, we think ourselves justified in
continuing to sustain theip, anl to certify, in this case, that
the Circuit Court has jurisdiction of the cause.

