OF THE UNITED STATES.

213

divided in opinion upon the question as to the amount of 1827.
the security bond, to be given by the party applying for a \
writ of error, whether the amount of the bond ought to be Ogden
V.
sufficient to cover the whole debt, or only for the costs and Saundeincreased damages on the party failing to prosecute his writ
of error with effect. Whereupon the division of opinions
was certified to this Court, under the 6th section of the
Judiciary Act of the 29th April, 1802, ch. 291.
The cause was argued by Mr. Eaton for the plaintiff, and Jan. 17tIh.
by Mr. White for the defendant.
THIs CouRT was of opinion, that it had nojurisdiction of
the question on which the opinions of the judges of -the
Circuit Court were opposed, the division of opinions having
trisen after the decision of the cause in that Court.
Certificate accordingly

LCO NSTITUIONAL LA'..j
OGDEN,

Plaintiff in Error, against SAUNDERs, Defendant n
Error.

The power of Congress "to establish uniform laws on tli. subject ot
bankruptcies throughout the United States." does not exclude,the
right of the States to legislate on the same subject, except when
thepower is actually exercised by Congress, and lie S.:te 1,ws

conflict with those of Congress.
A bankrupt or insolvent las of any State, which discharges both th.
person of the debtor, and his future acquisitions of property, Is not
-' a law impairing the obligation of contracts," so far as iespects
debts contracted subsequent to the passage of such law.
\
But a certificate of discharge, under such a law, cannot be pleaded
in bar of an action brought by a citizen of another State, in the
Courts of the lnited States, or of any other State than that
where the discharge was obtained.

ERROR to the Distnct Court of Lo.imana.
This wai an action tf assumpsit, brougi, in the Court be-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.
'av-*'
Ogden

C.

low by the defendant in error, Saunders, a citizen of Kentucky, against the plaintiff in error, Ogden, a citizen of Lou.
isiana. The plaintiff below declared upoo certain bills of

V

Saunders. exchange. drawn on the 30th of September, 1806, by one
Jordan, at Lexington, in the State of Kentucky, upon the
defendant. below, Ogden, in the city of New-York, (the defendant then being a citizen and resident of .heState of NewYork,) accepted by him at the city of New-York, and protested for non.payment.
The defendant below pleaded several pleas, among which
was a certificate of discharge under the act of the legislature of the State of New-York, of April 3d, 1801, for the
relief of intolvent debtors, commonly called the threefourths act.
The jury found the facts in the form of a special verdict,
on which the Court rendered a judgment for the plaintiff
below, and the cause was brought by writ of error before
this Court. The question, which arose under this plea as
to the validity of the law of New-York as being repugnant
to the constitution of the United States, was argued at February term, 1824, by Mr. Clay, Mr. D. B. Ogden, and Mr.
Hanes, for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Webster and
Mr. Wheaton, for the defendant in error, and the cause was
continued for advisement until the present term. It was
,Peb. 19th, again argued at the present term, (in connexion vith seve20th. 218t, ral other causes standing cn the calendar, and involving the
general question of the validity of the State bankrupt, or
ed.
insolvent laws,) by Mr. Web.ter and Mr. Wheaton, against
the validity, and by the .4tturney General, Mr. E. Livzngston, Mr. D. B. Ogden, Mr. Jones, and Mr. Sampson, for the
validity.
The editor has endeavoured to incorporate the substance
both of the former and the present argument, into the following summaries.
Mr. Wheaton argued, that the State laws now in question
were repugnant to the constitution of the United States,
upon two grounds:
1st. That the power of establishing " uniform laws on

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1827.
the subject of bankruptcies throughout the United States,"
was exclusively vested in Congress.
.gden
2d. That the State laws in question were "laws impairing the obligation of contracts." the power of passing which Saunders.
was expressly prohibited to the States.
1. The State laws, the validity of which is now drawn in
question, are, the act of the legislature of New-York of the
3d of April, 1801, for the relief of insolvent debtors on the
application of three fourths of their creditors, by discharging-their persons, and future property, from liability for their
debts, upon a celsro bonorum, and the act of the 3d of April,
1813, graiiting the same relief upon the application of two
thirds of the creditors. The judgment of one of the learned judges of this Court, in the case of Golden v. Prince,was
referred to in this part of the argument. and its reasoning
relied upon, to show that the power of establislng uniform
laws on the subject of bankruptcies throughout the Union
was, from its niture, an exclusive power, and that the exercise of a similar power on the part of the States was inconsistent.4
2. These legislative acts are laws impairing the obligation
of contracts. That they are such, in respect to contracts in
existerice when the laws are passed, has already been determined by the Court upon solemn argumentb It was
"also supposed to have been decided, that, in such a case, it
was immaterial whether the contract was made before or
after the passage of the law.c But the whole question
might now he considered as open for discussion.
To determine it, the nature and terms of the constitutional prohibition must be examined. ".Y o &:ate," 4-c.
"shall coin money, emit bills of credit, make any thing but
gold and silver coin a tender in the payment of debts, pass
any bill of attainder, ex postfacto law, or law zmpatring the
obligationof contracts." These are comprehensive terms,
studiously designed to restrain the State legislatures from
a 5 Hall's Law Journ. 502. 508.
6 Stuiges v. Crowninshield, 4 W7eat. Rep. 12.
Mlechanics' Bank v Smith, 6 W7 eat. Rep. 181.
c M'Millan v. M'Niell, 4 Wheat. Rep. 209.

Farmers' and

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1827.

acts of ijustice, both in criminal and civil matters. And (I.)
Sthe prohibition of issuing bills of credit, 'or making anything

Ogden

but gold and silver coin a tender in the payment of debts,

Saunders.

was intended to cut up paper money by the roots. The
commercial credit of the nation had severely --iffered from
this fatal scourge, and the anxiety to be relieved from it,
was one of the most pressing motives which induced the forIt might, perhaps, be
mation of the new constitution.
doubted, whether the power of coining money, which was
given to Congress, and denied to the States, taken in connexion with the prohibition to them to emit bills of credit,
or make any thing but gold and silver coin a tender in the
payment of debts, was not intended to give to Congress the
exclusive power of regulating the whole currency of the
country, although the framers cf the constitution probably
did not foresee how completely this provision would be
evaded by'the multiplication of banking corporations in the
different 8tates. The term "bills of credit," alone, would
reach the ordinary case of paper money ; but the prohibition of tender laws was meant to expand the same thought
so as to reach valuation and appraisement laws, and all that
prolific brood of similar pernicious enactments which disfigure the pages of. our history from the peace of 1783 until
the establishment of the present constitution in 1789.
(2.) " Bills of attainder, and ex poetfacto laws," were prohibited, in order to restrain the State legislatures from op-

V.

pressing individuals by arbitrary sentences, clothed with the
forms of legislation, and from making retrospective laws ap(3") The prohibition of
plicable to criminal matters.a
contracts," was intended
of
the
obligation
" laws impairing
which experience had
mischiefs
remaining
to prevent the
with contracts,
interferences
shown to flow from legislative
and to establish a great conservative principle, under which
they might be protected from unjust acts -of legislation in

any form.
To give complete effect to this last salutary prohibition,
the Court has constantly given it an interpretation sufficiently
broad and liberal to accomplish the ends which the framers

a Calder et tfx. v. Bull, S Dall. Rep. 886.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1827.
of the constitution had in view. For this purpose the proexehibiti6n has beeti considered as extending to contracts
.gden
cuted, as well as executory; to conveyances of land, as well
as commerciaLcontracts, to public grants from the State to Saunders.
corporations and individuals, as wel as private contracts between citizens; to grants and charters in existence when
the constitution was adopted, as well as those existing previously, and even. before the revolution; and to compacts
between the different States themselves.4 In most of these
cases, the impairing act was applied to a specific contract
or grant, and affected only the rights of particular indi'iduals. But the principles laid down by the Court apply to
whole classes of contracts; and'shrely it will not be pretended, that a law repqaling all charters of a certain description, or impairing a general description of contracts, or
abolishing all debts of a certain nature, would not be reached by the prohibition. The constitution necessarily dealt
in general terms ; and such is the intrinsic ambih iity of all
human language, that it could not entirely avoid difficulties
of interpretation. But the fault of tautology hhs never
been imputed to this instrument, and terms of such significant import would hardly have been added to this clause, if
it had been intended merelyto repeat and amplify the same
thought whtch had already been expressed in the prohibition of palier money, and othertender laws. On the other
hand, if it had been intended merely to prohibit those particular species of laws impairng the obligation of contracts,
which the history of the times shows to have been the object
of peculiar censure, they would have been- mentioned by
name. Paper money and tender laws may be, and undoubtedly are, lav~s impairing the obligation of contracts ;- bet
they were such notorious and flagrant evils, that it was
deemed necessary to prohibit them expressly, and'by name.
But the Convention would have stopped there, had they not
,a Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cianch, 87. New-Jersey v. Wilson,
-7 Cranc&, 164. Terrett-v. Taylor, 9 Cranch, 45. Town of Pdwlet
v. Clark, 9 Cran6CZ, 292. Dartmouth College v.Woodward, 4 Wheat.
Rep. 518. Society, &c. v. New-Haven, 8 Wheat. Rep. 464. 481.

Green v'Biddle, 8 Wlat..Rep. I.
28
VOL. XII.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1827.
Ogden

intended to include any, and every law, impairing the obli.

~ gation of contracts. And if they had intended to include

only such as instalment and suspension laws, they would

V.

Saunders. have mentioned them specifically. It is believed that the
reasoning of the Court in Sturges v. Cromunshzeid, is conThis reasoning receives confirmaclusive on this head.
tion from the historical fact, that in the original draughts of
the proposed constitution, this prohibition of laws impairing
the obligation of contracts was not included, although the
other prohibitions were contained both in Mr. C. Pinck,ney's draught, and in that of the Committee of Nine. The
prohibition now in question was subsequently added in the
revised draught, which shows, at least, that it was studiously
inserted.b
Since, then, the Convention intended to prohibit every
possible mode in which the obligation of contracts might
be violated by State legislation, the question recurs, are
State bankrupt laws within the prohibition ? The clause
must be construed in connexion with other parts of the
constitution, and must be considered with reference to
those extrinsic circumstances in the then condition of the
country which affect the question. One of the great objects
of the constitution was to restore violated faith, and to raise
the country.from that state of distress and degradation into
which it had been plunged by the want of a regular administration of justice in the relation of debtor and creditor.
The motives for giving the power of establishing bankrupt
laws to Congress are explained in the cotemporaneous expositions of the constitution.c Had not this power been
granted-to the Union, it might have been argued with more
show of reason, that the States were not meant to be prohibited from exercising the power so as to impair the obligation of contracts. In enumerating the prohibitions to the
States, each particular class of laws was not specified, for
the reasons before mentioned. The plan of the framers of
the constitution excluded this prolixity of detail. Even in
a Joum. Fed. Convention, 79. S7. 859.

&.FedeTalist,No. d-

OF THE UNITED .STATES.

)19

the Federalist,the authors have only commented upon such 1827.
parts as were sUbjected at the time to popular discussion.
Their observations upon the present subject are very gene- Ogden
V.
ral and concise; not, as has been supposed, because the Saunders.
concession by the States was not so extensive as we now
contend, but because it *as almost universally regarded a.
indispensably necessary.
It is said, in a learned judgment delivered from a tribunal
entitled to great respect, that all contracts are to be construed and executed according to the lex loct contractus,and
the obligation of the contract is what the law of the place
makes it. Hence it is inferred, that the insolvent laws of
the State in which any contract is made, form a part of the
obligation of the contract.The principle may be admitted without conceding the inference. It is sought to be illustrated by supposing the law
incorporated into the agreement of the parties. But it is
only to suppose the clause of the constitution now in question to be also inserted iin their agreement, and it will be
seen that this imaginary reference of the contracting parties
to any particular law, leaves the question just where it
found it. To this reasoning may be opposed the authority
of another learnedjudge of the same State, who, though he
expresses an opinion that the prohibition ought to be applied
to retrospective laws only, repudiates this argument "For."
(says he,)" if parties are to be presumed to contract with
reference to existing laws, they must be presumed to mean
laws made zn pursuance of the constitution."6 And it may
be added, that the same argument would apply with equal
force to a law making paper money, or any thing else but
gold arid silver coin, a tender in the payment of debts. But
it will hardly be pretended, that the existence of such a law
at the time and place where the debt was c6ntracted,
would.prevent the creditor from recovering it in specie.
It may, indeed, be admitted, that there is a difficulty in
distinguishing between the obligation of a contract, and the
remedy given by the law to enforce it. It may be admitted.
a Mather v. Bush, 16 1qhs. Rep. 255. 949. Per Spencer, Ch. ,T
7 Per Kent, Oh. 7 John. (,. R . 578.

(220
1827.
Ogden
V.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COU1'I
that the States have a right to modify the remedy, so far as
respects their own Courts, that the lexforz rna3 be changed
in many Tespects, that the process for the collection of debts

Saunders. may be altered, still it does not follow, that a law taking
away all remedy whatever, and, in effect, abolishing the
debt, would be a valid act. Unless such an act be a law
impairing the obligation of contracts, it is difficult to conceive of such a law. Wherever there is a right, there must
be a remedy.a The reeiddy may be modified, but it may not
be so modified as to impair or destroy the obligation. A discharge of tfie person only, upon a cessso bonorum, under a
State insolvent law, may not impair the obligation of his
contracts, and may be effectual within the territory of the
State, and in the State Courts. But a discharge of the person, and the future acquisitions of property of the debtor.
under a State bankrupt law; absolutely extinguishes the
debt, and cannot, thdrefore,'be valid in any place where the
authority of the costitution of the United States extends.
The distinction between bankrupt and insolvent laws-is sufficiently clear for all practical purposes. Both in Great
Britaia and on the European continent, the bankrupt laws
are limited to merchants and traders, and th6 discharge is
absolute. On the other hind, both by the insolvent system
of England, and the cess-zo bonorum of the countries governed
by the Roman civil law, the benefit of the cession is extended to all classes of persons, but it discharges the person
only, leaving the subsequent acquisitions of the debtor liable
to the demands of his creditors.b The cessto bonorum does
not, therefore, impair the obligation of the contract. It
only suspends and modifies the remedy. "NNeither a civil
nor a natural obligation (says Ayliffe) is dissolved by a cessio bonorum; though it produces a good exception in law,
and 6uspends the force of an obligation for a time; the extinguishment of an obl-gation being one thing, and the cesa S Bl. Comm. 23.
b Inst. de Act. s. 40. Dig. . 4. De cesswne bonorurn. S Potlie'.
nczyclop. Meth. art.
Pandect. Just. nm Nov. Ord. Dig. 174. B. 42.
Jurisprudence, Cessun. Code du-Commerce, art. 568. Ken's CoMm.
"7ol. 1. n. S.6. 16 Johns. Rep. 5244, 245..noto (0)(.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

221

1827.
sation of it another; for, when an obligation is once extinct,
it never revives again."a
y.
Supposing, then, that the prohibition ought to be con- Ogden
strued as extending to State bankrupt laws, what reason is Saunders.
there to believe that the Convention meant to restrict it to
They had
laws operating upon existing coutracts only
already expressly prohibited retrospective laws in criminal
matters.; and retrospective laws, applicable to civil cases,
hardly required any positive and express prohibition. In
every system of jurisprudence such laws are considered as
contrary to tie first principles of natural justice, and even
in those countries where the Courts do not feel themselves
at liberty to disobey the will of the legislature when clearly
eipressed, however unreasonable or unjust, they will not
give effect to it unless it is thus expressed.b Had retrospective laws, affecting vested rights acquired under contracts, been alone intended, more appropriate and restrictive terms would have been used. But, thus limited in its
operation, the prohibition would have heen wholly ineffectual.
The prohibition of paper money, and tender laws, was certainly mpant to apply to prospective, as well as retrospective acts. To prohibit debts from being compulsively satisfied with any thing but gold and silver coin, and yet to permit the States to make laws. for dischargihig debts without
payment of any kind, is an absurdity of which the Convention cannot be suspected. It is universally admitted, that
the prohibition covers instalment and suspension laws.
These confessedly involve all the mischiefs meant to be corrected, and yet we are told the States may pass them ad
libitum, provided they only make them prospective in their
operation. The history of the times will show that many
of the laws which the Convention must have had in their
eye, were prospective, either in effect, or in express terms.a Aiiffe's Ci. Law, 1.4. fit. 1.
b Bracton, I. 4. fol. U8.

Dig. 50. 17. 75. Code X apoMo, art. £.

Dash v. Van Kleeck, 7 Johns. Rep. 477. bOO. Kent's Comm. vol. 1.
part 3. lect. 20.
c State Papers, vol. 1. p. 25. Mr. Hammond's correspondenee

with Mr. Jefferson.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.
'
.Ogden

The prohibition is associated in the same clause with other
prohibitions, all intended to promote the same object, that
of securing the observance of good faith in matters of con-

V.

Saunders. tr.Ict. "No Siate shall make any thing but gold and silver
coin a tender in the payment of debts," or "pass any law
impairing the obligation of contracts." What debts? All
debts, both those contracted before and after the passage of
the tender law. What contracts9 .11 contiacts, both those
made before, and those made after the impairng law.
What is this "obligation of contracts," which is prohibited from being impaired by any act of State legislation 9
We answer, it is the civil obligation, the binding efficacy,
the coercive power, the legal duty of performing the contract. The constitution meant to preserve the inviolability
of contracts, as secured by those eternal principles of equity
and justice which run throughout every civilized code, which
form a part of the law of nature and nations, and by which
human society, in all countries and all ages, has been regulated and upheld.. It is said that the obligation of contracts is
derived from the municipal law alone: Obligatio est jurts
vinculum, quo necessitate astrzngimuralicujus rca solvenda
secundum nosirce ctivtatisjure.a This is what we deny. It
springs from a higher source- from those great principles of
universal law, uhich are binding on societies of men as well
as on individuals. The writers on natural law are full of
this sublect.6 And the Court itself has given a practical
a Just. Inst. 1. S.tit. 14.
b Grotius, (De J. B de P.) "On this subject we are supplied
with noble arguments from the divine oracles, which inform us that
GoD himself, who can he limited by no established rules of law,
would act contrary to his own nature, if he did not perform his proraises. From whence it follows, that the obligation to perform pro.
mises, springs from the nature of that unchangeable justice, which is
an attribute of GoD, and common to all who bear his image in the
use of reason." (B. 2. ch. 11. s. 1 ) "It is a most sacred command

of nature, and guides the whole order of human life, that every man
fulfil his contracts." (B. S.ch'4. s. 2.)
Burlamaqut. , It is as ridiculous to assert that before the establish.
ment of civil laws and society, there was no rule of justice to whicb

mankind were subject, as to pretend that truth and rectitude depend
on the will of men, and not on the nature of things." (Vol. 2. p. 158.)

Mattel, Droit dep Gen.

1kIt is shown by the law of nature, thatr

OF THE UNITED STATES.

)23

,exposition to the clause, wbib cannot be reconciled to the 1827.
supposition, that the obligation of contracts depends alone
V.
'on the municipal laws of the States. In the case of Green (gden
v. Biddle," it was determined, that certain acts of Kentucky Saunders.
were repugnant to the constitution of the United States, as
impairing the obligation of the compact of 1789, between
the States of Virginia and Kentucky, respecting the titles to
land in the lattei"State. Here the contract was a treaty be.
tween two sovereign States of the Union. Whence was its
obligation derived but from the law of nature and nations 9
When it is contended that the obligation of contracts depends upon universal law, it is not meant to assert that the
State legislatures may not change their present municipal
codes. But it is denied that they may change them so as to
affect that "great prtniple which the Convention intended
Many
to establish that contracts should be inviolable."
perplexing cases may be imagined, where it would be difficult to ascertain the precise extent of the constitutional limitation upon the power of the States. In a new system of
government, so complicated as ours. it will not be easy, nor
is it necessary, to adjust by anticipation the precise limits of
its conflicting authorities. "Moral lines are strong and
broad," and it is not possible to mark them with mathemaie who has made a promise to any one, has conferred on him a true.

right to require the thing promised, and that, consequently, not to
keep a perfect promise, is to violate the right of another, and is as
manifest an injuscice as that of depriving a person of hs property.
There would be no more security, no longer any commerce between
mankind, did they not believe themselves obliged to preseive their
faith and to keep their word. This obligation is then as necessary, as
natural, and indubitable, between the nations that live togethex in a
state of nature, and acknowledge no superior on earth, to maintain
order and peace in their society." (B. 9. ch. 12. s. 163.)

Pothter, des Obligations. "Natural law is the cause, mediately at
least, of all obligations, for if contracts, torts, and quasi torts, produce obligations, it is because the natural law ordains that every one
should perform his promises, and repair the wrongs he has committed?'

(Pt. 1. ch. 1.)

a 8 Wheat. Rtep. 1.
-hStarges v. Crewnnshield, 4 teat. Rep. 206.

224

CASES J1N THE SUPREME COURT

1827.
Ogden
V.

tical precision. What we insist upon is, that the prohibition

~ was designed, to guarantee to the people of the whole Union,
ofeach State, and to foreigners,.the inviolability of cohitracts,

Saunders. the impartial administration of civil justice, the observance
ofgood faith, that ligament ofthe social union,so as to enforce
the execution of agreements in some effectual mode. The
prohibition is universal. All manner of contracts are included in it, and their obligation is forbidden from being im.paired by -anylegislative act whatsoever. "No State-shall
pass any law impairing the obligation of contracts." It is
not merely any law impairing a. particular contract, but it is
any law impairing the obligation, or binding efficacy of contracts in g"neral. It is any such law, general or special,
applicable to a specific contract, or to all contracts, or to a
particular class of contracts, to contracts made between citizens of the same State, or with citizens of differen LStatesi
or aliens; between the State and individuals or corporations,
and between the States themselves; whether the contract
was in existence when the constitution was adopted, or subsequently made; and (as we contend) whether the law was
made subsequent to the contract, or the contract to-the law.
It has, indeed, been attempted to carve out of the universality of-the prohibition, an implied exception of such laws
as were in existence when the constitution was formed, or
which the States had been accustomed to pass in the ordinary course pf their domestic legislation. But nothing can
be more arbitrary than this diitinction. It is said, that insolvent laws were in existence when the constitution was formed and adopted, and had existed from very early colomal
times. So were paper money and tender laws, instalment
and suspension laws. Ybt these are confessedly meant to be
prohibited; and whenever such laws have been inadvertently or designedly passed by any State since the adoption
of the constitution, no care has been taken to make fhem
prospective only in their oration. If it be said that paper
money and tender laws are expressly prohibited, the answer
is, that the extent of the prohibition does not depend upon
the particular kind of law being specified, but that, if it is
once ascertained that any law falls within the general prohi
bitibii its being limited to future cases only will not rescue

(OF THE UNITED STATES.

=6z

1827.
it from the grasp of that prohibition. The general legislative power of the States over contracts is left untouched by \
the clause in question. The States may still provide what Ogden
V.
shall, and what shall not, be the lawful subject of contracts; Saunders
in what form they shall be made, and whether in writing, under seal, or by parol, and by what solemnities they shall be
attested; who may contract, and who are disabled from contracting, what contracts are forbidden by the policy of the
State, either as respects its internal commerce, its police, its
health, its finances, its morals. In short, the dominion of the
States over the entire field of civil legislation is complete.
except so far as it has been surrendered, expressly, or by
fair implication, to the national government, or as its exercise is expressly prohibited to the States. But still the
question recurs, how far has it been surrendered, and how far
has its exercise been thus prohibited 9 The States may enact
laws forbidding certain kinds of contracts from being made.
or any contract being made by certain individuals, or requi
ring them to be made in certain prescribed forms, and at
tested with certain solemnities, and proved by certain species
of testimony. Contracts made contrary to these regulations
may-be void in their inception, and never have a legal obligation; or those whichare permitted to be made, may be
discharged by performance, by payment, or by prescription
and the presumption arising from the lapse of time as a rule
of evidence. The States may make any and all regulations
respecting contracts, provided they do not includei among
these regulations a provision that lawful contracts shall have
no obligation. The constitution makes the binding obligation an inseparable incident to the contract. Without dodbt,
the supreme power of the nation may make laws impairing
the obligation of contracts. Congress, n,.' being prohibited in the constitution, may make. lawshavii.g that effect,
wherever it is a necessary consequence of the exercise of any
legislative power given by the constitution. Thus, the warMhaking power necessarily involves in its exercise the dissolution of contracts of affreightment, and charter party, of insurance, and partnership, and other conventions connected
with a commercial intercourse with the public enemy. But
f he radical vice of tvv opposite argument consists in assu20
Vo0. XII.

(.AhES IN THE SUPREME

'

1827
-,
Ogden
V.

WOURT

iing that the States are supreme in respect to this matter.
They have parted with the poner of making all laws impairing the obligation of contracts. and they have given the

Saunders. power to Congress, so far as it is mi olved in the enactment
of bankrupt laws, or of any other law which Congress has
authority to make.
As to what'may be said in respect to the consequences oi
ihe decision the Court is called upon to pronounce, they
have been very much exaggerated in all the discussions which
have taken place on this sublect. Few of the States have
ever had bankrupt laws. Most of them have confined their
regulations to a discharge of the person only. Others have
already modified their insolvent laws, and conformed them
to the recent ewsions of this Court. There is a general
disposition to ,cquiesce in those decisions. The person of
the debtor is every where free. The statute of limitations is
fait obliterating stale demands. and it is consolatory to believe, that although the perseverance of this high tribunal, in
it5 former resolutions, might be attended with some temporary and partial evils, they would soon findtheir appropriate
remedy in the exertion of the constitutional power of Congress. Whatever difficulties may attend the question, relating
to a uniform code of bankrupt laws, they must ultimately bL
overcome by the legislative wisdom of the country The
establishment of such a code is imperiously demanded by
our peculiar situation as a confederacy -f numerous States,
closely connected by an active commercial intercourse. with
various partial and conflicting regulations co-icerning the relation of debtor and creditor, by the policy of reciprocating
the laws of foreign countries upon the same subject, and by
the general interests of commerce, interwoven as they are
with our grandeur and power as a nation, and with all the
kources of public and private prosperity
The .ltloraey General,Mr. E.Lzzingston, Mr. Clay, Mr. D9
B. Ogdon, Mr. Jones, Mr. Sampson, and Mr. Names, argued.
,-enlra. (.) that the power of establishing "uniform laws on
the subject ofbankruptimes throughout the United States," as
given to Congress in the constitution, was not exclusive of
the 4tates nver the same -ubicct. (2.) That the laws of the

OF THE UNITED STATES.
State of New-York, now in question, were not laws - npairing the obligation of contracts," in the sense of the con.
stitution.
[The Editor regretg that, from the number of counsel who
argued on this side of the question, and the greztt variety of
topics insisted on by them, he has been obliged to condense
the whole argument into the following summary, which he
hopes will be found to contain the substance of their reasoning, although it does not distinctly assign to each his appropriate portion of the argument, and is far from doing justice
to the learning, eloquence, and ability, with which the subject was discussed.]
1. It was stated to be the settled doctrine of this Court.
that any State of the Union has a right to pass a bankrupt
law, provided such law does not impair the obligation ot
contracts, and provided there be no act of Congress in force
to establish a uniform system of bankruptcy conflicting with
such law. Although some of the powers of Congress are
exclusive, from their nature, without any express prohibition of the exercise of the same powers by the States, the
power of establishing bankrupt laws is not of this descrip.
tion., The Court had determined that the right of the scveral States to pass bankrupt laws is not extinguished by the
enactmentofa uniform bankrupt law throughout the Union by
Congress. but only suspended so far as the two laws coiiflict.b
One of the laws of New-York, now in question, was ongi-.
nally passed on the 21st of March, 1788, was re-enacted in
1801, among the revised laws of that year, arrdocontinue- in
'force until long after the discharge of the plaintiff in error
was obtained. And although a uniform bankrupt law of
Congress was in force during a part of this period, it was
repealed before the discharge; and, consequently, supposing
the State insolvent law did conflict in any respect with the
bankrupt law of Congress, it was only, so far, suspended in its
operation, and upon the repeal of the law of Congress, was
revived in all its effects. The other act, that of 1813, war
Sturgeos v. Crowninshield. 4 Wheat. Rep. I Pz

6 (qd.

1827.
Ogden
V.

uASES IN THE SUPREME COlII

1827.
Ogden

passed after the repeal of the bankrupt law of Congress ot
S1800.

But supposing this to be an open question, in order to

V.

Saunders. determine it, it was said to be necessary to look, not merely
at the great federal objects for which the constitution was
ordained, but to the antecedent condition of the parties to
the compact. They were sovereign States, with all the
powers of municipal government, which they had long exercised, and with regard to this particular power of passing
insolvent and bankrupt laws, they had been in the actual exercise of it for many years before the adoption of the constitution, and even from the earliest colonial times. The English bankrupt laws, and the temporary acts which were occasionally passed by the British Parliament for the relief of
insolvent debtors, were not extended to the colonies. The
several States had insolvent laws in force, at the adoption of
the constitution, and they continued, after the adoption, to
alter, revise, and re-enact those laws, manifestly unconscious that they had parted with this power. This was, indeed, no proof that they had not parted with it, if there was
any other party having at once a right'and an interest to
make the objection. But the people of the Union, represented in Congress, so far from contesting the power of the
States over this matter, had never exercised the power of
making bankrupt laws, except in a single instance, and then
with an express saving of the State insolvent laws.a So,
the people of the several States, represented in their respective local legislatures, had all exercised this power. Here,
then, was a significant declaration of the people that they
had not parted with this power in their State capacities;
and that the grant of a similar authority, in their new capacity of a federal union, did not, by the mere grant of it,
exclude'bhe exercise of it by them in their State capacities,
at least until superseded by a general and permanent law of
Congress. Cotemporaneous construction had always been
considered as of great weight in matters of constitutional
law; and in the question relating to the power of Congress
a Bank,. Lat of 1800, ch. 173. s. 61

OF THE UNITED STATEbo

'229

1827.
to establish such corporations as the Bank of the United
States, was considered as decisive. There are only three
Ogden
exthe
from
excluded
are
States
the
cases in wlAich
V.
ercise of any power antecedently possessed by them Saunders.
(i.) When a power is granted to Congress in exclusive
terms. (2.) When the States are expressly prohibited
from exercising it in a specific form. (3.) When a power is
granted to Congress, the cotemporaneous exercise of which
by the States would be incompatible. It was not asserted--on the other side, that the power now in question
falls under either of the two first heads, nor could it, by
any fair course of reasoning, be shown to fall under the
third head, of being an incompatible power, except when the
incompatibility arises from its actual exercise by Congress.
The grant of the power of establishing " a uniform rule of
naturalization," and "uniform laws on the subject of bankruptcies," being contained in thb same clause, and expressed in similar terms, had justly been considered as subject
to the same interpretation. Before the adoption of the
constitution, the States had various incongruous rules of naturalization, and laws on the subject of bankruptcies, some
.of which discharged the person only of the debtor, and others
his future acquisitions of, property. Then came this provision of the constitution, which manifestly looks to the ante.
cedent condition of things existing in the several States.
The word uniform was significantly used as applihkble to
that condition of things. In any other view, the expression
has no peculiar meaning, and does not qualify the general
grant of power; for all the laws of Congress, on general
stibjects, are necessarily " uniform throughout the United
States." The censure of the State regulations, implied in
the terms in which the power to correct them is given to
Congress, was pointed against their want of uniformity. The
policy and neqessity both of bankrupt and oaturalization
laws, was clearly recognised. The sole object of granting
to Congress any power over these subjects, was to secure
that uniformity which the conflicting regulatiolis of the different States could-not attain. But the terns .nwhich the
grant is conceived were not mandatory. Congress was left
free to exercise it, or not, at its discretion, and the onl

1A

iiSES IN THEi

1897
k-*Ogden

.

SUPREME COUWI"

consequence of all actual exerrise of the power by Con.
gress, was to supersede, during such exercise, the State
laws, so far as they conflict ith the laws of Coiigress.a

V.

Saunders.

2. The clause rened upon as virtualil) abolishing this power,
is found in a subsequent and remote section of the constitution, wherein, after an enumeration of certain specified laws
which the States may not pass, it is added. " nor any law imFrom thi it was inpairing the obligation of contracts."
ferred, that the States cannot pass bankrupt laws, although
the power is riot exclusive in Congress. The States may
pass bankrupt laws, it had been said, provided they do not
impair the obligation of contracts. But all bankrupt laws
do impair the obligation of contracts, i. e. they discharge
the debtor from his debts without pa)met, and, therefore,
the States cannot pass them. even when the power is not actually exercised by Congress. It had. however, been conceded, that they may pass insolvent lawb wlhich discharge
the person only, becaltse these do not impair the obligation,
but only affect the remedy. It had been said they aflbct the
remedy only, because they still leave the obligation entire to
be enforced against the future property of the debtor. But
iuppose the Stat6 law should deny the creditor any power
of coercion whatever, whether against the body or the estate
of the debtor, it would still act upon the remedy only, and
yet would strip the contract of all its binding efficacy, except merely that moral obligation, that scintilla urts, which,
though it might form a sufficient consideration for a new promise, was in itself no ground of action. As the obligation
of the contract does not depend upon municipal law, the
withdrawal of all the means of coercion which that law
a - It may be exercised or declined as the wisdom of that body
in the opinion of Congress, uniform laws on the
shall dccide. if,
subject of bankruptcies ought not to be established, it does not follow
that partial laws may not exist, or that Siat legislation on the subject
must cease. It is not the mere existence of the power, but its exer,nse. winch is incompatible with the exercise of the same power by
the States. It is not the right to establish these unifoini laws, but
:hesr actual establishment, which is inconsistent with the partial acts."
-- Sturues v. Crowninshield, 4 Wheat.Rep. 196.

OF THE UNITED STATEb.
gives, cannot impair the obligation, since it only takes away 1827.
the remedy. Thus, according to this dictinction between ,.--.
Ogden
the right and the remedy, creditors are left completely at the
mercy of State legislation, notwith.taiding the boasted ef- Saunders.
ficacy of this constitutional prohibition.
But (it was a.-ked) what is the true import of this clause..
forbidding the States from passing "any law impairing the
obligation of contracts '* A contract is not merely that
which the parties expressly stipulate. It is that also which
the-existing laws of the country vhere the contract is made
annex as condifions to it at the time when it is formed. It
had been admitted, that a State might prohibit contracts altogether. If so, it may permit them, sub modo, with such
conditions as it thinks fit to arnex, and the parties who make
a contract in that State, make it subject to the conditions.
These conditions enter int6 the contract, and form a part of
it as completely as if they had been expressly stipulated by
the parties themselves. These conditions are sometimes
beneficial to one party, sometimes to the other: sometimes
they add to the contract, sometimes they diminish it. But
in every instance they receive the tacit assent of the parties.
and are not considered as impairing the obligation of the
contract. A. gives B: a bond for 1000 dollars, payable on
demand. There is no stipulation for interest. But the law
annexes the tacit condition that the obligee shall receive interest, and that at a certain fixed rate. So in the contract
of exchange, the drawer of a bill does not stipulate to pay
it if the drawee refuses. In the same manner, the liability of
the endorser to the holder is implied by the law, and cannot
be collected from the bill itself. Still less, is his right to be
discharged for want of due notice of the dishonour of the bill
to be found in the written contract. But the law implies
it, and, therefore, it might be said to impair the obligation
of the actual contract between the parties, which contained no such condition. How did it happen that this
was not considered a violation of the constitution 9 It
could only be because the law of the place has annexed
that condition to the contract, and made it as much a part of
the contract as if the parties had expressed it. The same
principle applies to the custom of adding days of grace to

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.
v
Ogden
V.

the specified time of payment in bills and notes, which art
various in different countries, and make the contract of the
parties, whatever the law of the place where-the payment

4
So, where the
Saunders. isto he made, says shall be the contract.
creditor on
to
the
peculiar
remedy
gives
a
law of the place
a bill or note, more summary and strict than in ordinary cases, the party shall be intended to have renounced the benefit of the ordinary law, and to have submitted himself to the
extraordinary process provided for the particular case? And
so of many other cases.in which whatever is-considered as
discharging the contract by the law of the place where it
was made, or with a view to which it is made, is considered
as discharging it every where else, in whatever jurisdiction
the creditor may attempt to enforce it, although no such
condition is expressed in the terms of the contract itself.c
This proceeds, not upon the idea that the foreign law can
impair the obligation of the contract, or the foreign Court
refuse to execute it, but that they will give the same effect
to it which is given by the law and the Courts of the coun.
try where it is made; they will regard that as the contract
of the parties which the lex loct declares to be the contract
of the parties.d So, in the present case, the contract being
made in a State, where the local law, existing at the time,
.innexed to the contract the condition that, in certain events,
-PyVed the control of the contracting parties, the contract
should be discharged, the parties contracting in the place
of the law, and with a knowledge of the law, are presumed
to assent to it.
But, it had been said, that if the local law be a part of
the -contract, so also in the constitution. This might be
admitted, without in any manner affecting the question.
The constitution does not define "the obligation of con.
fmrcts." It does not say that the express stipulations of the,

a Renner . The Bank of Columbia, 9 eat. Rep. 556.
b The Bank of Columbia v. Oakley, 4 Wheat. Rep. 255.
c a S 755. Cooke's Bankrupt Law, 814. 5 East's Rep. 124.
3 Term Rep. 609. i East's Rep 6. 1 Dal. 188. 229.
d 3 Pes jun. 449. 1 B1. Rep. e57. 2 Burr. 1077. 1 Bos.S°
Pull. 185. 16 Johns. Rep. 258. 50. Huberus Prele. tom.2. Jib.
~.tit. 5, D~DConjtuLegum! cited ti note to o Dal. 870.

OF-THE UNITED STATES.
parties alone shall form the contract, The contract is 1827.
formed of express and implied consent, of convention, and
of law. The constitution contemplates it in its legal sense, Ogden
and in all its parts. If, then, the local laws i force when Saunders.
the contract is made,-form a part of the contract, this is the
contract vihich the constitution says shall not be impaired.
So that it was not the plaintiff in error who sought to impair
the obligation of his contract.. It was the creditor who would
impair the obligation, by striking out of the contract one of
the conditions annexed to it by the law of the place. ,
Admitting, then, that the States could not pass bankrupt
laws which shall discharge antecedent contracts, it did not
follow that they might not pass bankrupt laws under which
debts subsequently contracted might be discharged. In the
latter case, the law annexes conditions to the express contract of the parties, to which it implies their assent, All
the different restraints on State legislation which are associated in the same prohibitory clause, were intended to prevent certain unjust, oppressive, and impolitic laws, both incivil and criminal matters. It bad not been denied on the
other side, that the prohibition of bills of attainder, and ex
post facto laws, were exclusively aimed at acts retrospective, partial, and unjust in. their operation; and it would not
be difficult to show, that none of the other prohibitions
were intended to affect the sovereign power of the States
over their civil and criminal codes, when exercised, as all
legislative power ought to be exercised, by general; impar.
tial, and prospective regulations. The history of the times,
and the cotemporaneous expositions of the clause, at the
formdtion and adoption of the constitution, together with
the subsequent judicial interpretations of it in case$ which
had since arsen, all concurred to prove, that the evils complained of, and the remedies meant to be applied for their
correction, exclnsively referred to legislative acts affecting
vested rights, or past transactions.a The history of the le-

a 5.Marsh. Li of Washington, 75. 85. 89. 259.
Uniti. HMut 46. 77.

.Tourn. Fed. Co
Vor. XIL.

z Ramsay's

ntion, 79. S

5 Ramnsay's

ist. of South Carolina, 440. 485.

S59.
07. Yinid Debata, $09. SMP,

30

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURI
'

1827.
v
Ogden
V.

Saunders.

gislation of the State whose acts were now under consideration, would afford a strong illustration of this topic of argument. A system of insolvent laws had existed in that State,
with some short interruptions, for sixty years past; and subsequent to the adoption of the constitution, such laws had
repeatedly passed the scrutiny of the Council of Revision,
always composed of able statesmen and learned jurists, and,
in some instances, of those who had taken an active part in
the formation of the constitution, without even a suggestion
that these acts were prohibited by the clause in question."
In every instance in which this Court had hitherto applied
the prohibition to a State law, it was to some act operating
upon antecedent existing contracts. Such, too, was the
plain and obvious meaning of the words of the prohibition.
How could any law be said to impair the obligation of a
contract not in existence when the law was passed 9 The
obligation must first be contracted before it can be impaired. Some right must be vested under a contract, before
any party can have a right to complain of a law impairing
its obligation. The party, who supposes himself to be injured, cannot complain of a law in existence when his contract was made, because (as had been shown) the law formed a part of that contract, and, therefore, could not impair
its obligation.
It was asked, what is the contract, and what the obligation
of the contract 9 And it was answered, that the contract was
what the parties understood ;t to be, and thty inderstood it
as the law declares it to be. Whatever is expected on
one side, and known to be expected on the other, is a part
or condition ofthe contract. b The obligation of the contract
is not the contract itself, but something arising out of it.
The moral obligation is that which binds the conscience
only. The legal obligation is that which the law imposes.
1 Tuck. Bl. gis Appendix, part I. The Federalist,No. 44.
I State Papers,250. Secret Debates, 70. 5 Hall'sLaw Journ.506.
m5o. 552. 6 Hall's LawJourn. 474 5 BinmnRep. 562 564. 18 Mass.
Rep. 16. 8 Johns. Rep. 74. 16 Johns. Rep. 335. 7 Johns. Ch.
Rep. 876.
50.

a 16 Johns. Rep. 284. note (a.

h,Pare?/'sMor. Phil. n2. 106,

OF' THI UNITED SIA'fL'.
1827.
It binds the contracting party to do that which the law says
he shall do, under certain contingencies 0which may arise.
Ogden
There is nothing of mere human institution (and it is with
V.
this that the constitution deals) whic' binis to the perform- Saunders.
ance of any contract, except the laws under which that contract is made, and the remedies provided by them to enforce
its execution. The insolvent acts form a part oftthose laws,
and of the remedies provided to enforce the contract. The
obligation of a coijtract may be impaired by interference in
favour of the creditor, as well as in favour of the debtor. But
here the existing remedies secured to both by the law (which
is a part of the contract) are preserved with integrity, and
there is consequently no violation of the constitutional provision, which was intended equally to protect the rights of
both debtor and creditor. Indeed, the proceedings under
some of these laws are compulsory against the debtor, and
force him to make a surrender and assignment of his pro.
perty for the benefit of his creditors, on their application.
Bankrupt and insolvent laws have existed, in various forms.
in every age and every civilized and commerciul country
as one of the means of securing a fair and impartial distribution of the effects of insolvents among all their creditors, or
as a relief which society has found it necessary to extend to
the honest debtor, who has become unable from misfortune
to satisfy the demands of his creditors. The States have,
therefore, the same right to pass these laws, (supposing the
power not to be exclusively vested in Congress,) which they
have, to pass laws of limitation, or usury, or divorce, or any
other ordinary regulation respecting contracts All these
laws might be said to have the effect of impairing the obligations of contracts, since they alter, increase, lessen, or diminish what would otherwise be the effect of the agreement of
the parties, by annexing.conditions other and different from
those expressed by the parties. If it were- possible to suppose a commercial contract made independent of any of
of those regulations which the municipal code of every civilized country prescribes, it would be stripped of all these
conditions, and reduced to the mere naked agreement of the
parties, without any means of enforcing its performance.
But the mumcipal law gives effect to lhs= actual conlrant of

136
18-7,
~~
Ogden
V.

6CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
the parties, by implying a multitude of clauses and condiions not expressed by them, and by providing "adequate
means to enforce it. Every municipal code contains a pro-

saunders. vision determining at what age a person shall be deemed
capable of contracting, and the period of majority is different
under different systems of law. This is a positiv9 rule of
society. In a state of nature, there is no definite age at
which an individual becomes capable of contracting. Is not
thQ whole of this subject under the control of State legislation, ahd would a law, extending the periodof minority, be
said to be a law impairing the obligation of contracts 9 So,
also, the power of contracting which is permitted to a married woman is inore or less limited under different systems
of jurisprudence, and there is nothing in which the positivc
institutions of society are more diversified. And the contract of marrage itself is subject to be dissolved by the laws
of the different States of the Union, under various circumstances and conditions. The policy of some States had made
absolute divorces extremely difficult to be obtained, others
had granted them with more facility. But could it be said
that these laws, or any alteration of these laws, impaired the
obligation of the contract of marriage 9 Was it not a constituent part of this contract, that it should be subject to be dissolved under the circumstances and accordingto the conditions prescribed- in the laws of the State in force at the time
when the marriage took place? In most of the States, the
policy of the English statute of frauds and registry acts had
been adopted, and certain contracts and conveyances were
required to be in writing, and others to be registered. Might
not the States require it as an essential condition to the validity of all contracts and all -conveyances, that they should be
in.writing ,and should be registered; and cotild this condition, annexed by the law to the contract of the parties, be
said to impair its obligation 9 In short, it was insisted that
the argument on the other side, when pushed to its legiti.
mate consequeiaces, would go to restrain State legislation
upon almost every subject of property and internal police,
and to fasten upon the States, against their sovereign will,
immutable codes of civil jurisprudence, the inconv-emence
and mischiefs of which could not be corrected by any means

OF THE UNITED STATES.

237

1827.
within the constitutional powerof Corgress. On most of the
subjects of ordinary civil legislation, Congress had no power '.v~'
at all, and on this particular subject of bankruptcy, there. Ogden
was little hope of its being exercised. So. that if tile Court Saunders.
should pronounce the State bankrupt codes invalid, and
Congresi should refuse to supply their plat e b) the establishment of uniform laws throughout the U ion, the country
would present the extraordinary spectacle of a great commercial nation, without laws on the-subject of bankruptcy.
Mr. Webster, in reply
the question arising in this case is not more important.
nor so important even, in its bearing on individual cases of
private right, as in its character of a public political question. The constitution was intended to accomplish a great
political object. Its design was not so much to prevent injustice or injury in one case, or in successive single cases, as
it was to make general salutary provisions, which, in their
operation, should give security to all contracts, stability to
credit, uniformity among all the States, is. those things which
materially concerned the foreign commerce of the country,
and their own credit, trade, and intercourse among them.
selves. The real question Is, therefore, a much broader
one than -has been argued. It is this, whether the constitu.
tlion has not, for general political purposes, ordained that
bankrupt laws should be established onl) by national authoity ? We contend that such was the intention of the constitition ; an intention, as we think, plainly manifested by a
consideration of its several provisions.
The act of New-York, under which this question arises.
provides, that a debtor may be discharged from all his debts,
upon assigning his property to trustees for the use of his creditors. When applied to the discharge of debts, contracted
before the date of the law, this Court has decided that
the act is invalid.' The act itself makes no distinction between past aad future debts, but provides for the discharge
of both in the same manner. In the case, then. of a debr
a Sturges v. Crowninshbield. 4 fat.

Rep. 1g1.

GASES IN THE SUPREME COUR'I
1827.

already existing, it is admitted, that the act does impair the
We wish the full extent of this decision to be well considered. It is not, merely, that the le-

Sobligation of contracts.
Ogden

V
Saunders. gislature of the State cannot ijterfere, by law, in the particular case of A. or B.. to injure or impair rights which have
become vested under contracs , but it is, that they have no
power, by general law, to regulate the manner in which all
debtors may be discharged from sub.sisang contracts; in
other words, they cannot pass general hankrupt laws, to be
applied zn presenti. Now, it is not contended that such
laws are unjust, and ought not to be passed by any legislature. It is not said they are unwise or impolitic. On the
contrary, we know the general experience is, that when
bankrupt laws are established, they make no distinction between present and future debts. While all agree that special acts, made-for individual cases, are unjust, all admit that
a general law, made for.all cases. may be both just and politic. The question, then, which meets us in the threshold,
is this: if the constitutioi-meant to leave the States the power of establishing s)stems of baikruptcy to act upon future
debts, what great or important object,,of a political nature,
was answered, by denying the power of making such systems applicable to existing debts 9
The argument used in Sturges v. Crowninsheld,was, at
least, a plausible and consistent arghment. It maintaimed,
that the prohibition of the constitution was levelled only
against interferences in individual cases, and did not apply to
general laws, whether those laws were retrospective or prospective in their operation. But the Court rejected that conclusion. It decided, that the constitutiou was intended to
apply to general laws. or systems of bankruptcy; that an
act, providing that all d btors might be discharged from all
creditors, upon certain conditions, was of no more validity
than an act, providing that a particular debtor, A., should be
discharged on the same conditions from his particular creditor, B.
It being thus decided that general laws are thus within the
prohibition of the constitution, it is for the plaintiffin error
now to show, on what ground, consistent with the general
,nblects of the constitution, he can establish a distinction

OF THE UNITED STATES.

239

which can give effect to those general laws in their applica18 7.
tion to future debts, while it denies them effect ii their apV.
plication to subsisting debts. The words are, that "no State Ogden
shall pass any law zmpairtng the obligation of contracts." Saunders.
The general operation of all such laws is, to impair that obligation, that is, to discharge the obligation without fulfilling
it. This is admitted, and the only ground taken for the
distinction to stand on is, that when the law was in existence, at the time of the making the contract, the parties
must be supposed to have reference to it, or, as it is usually
expressed, the law is. made a part of the contract. Before
considering what foundation there is for this argument, it
may be well to inquire, what is that obligation of contracts
of which the constitution speaks, and whence is it derived?
The definition given by the Court in Sturges v. Crowminsheld, is sufficient for our present purpose. "A contract,"
say the Court, " is an agreement to do some particular
thing; the law binds the party to perform this agreement,
and this is the obligation of the contract."
It may, indeed, probably, be correct to suppose the constitution used the words in somewhat of a more popular
sense. We speak, for example, familiarly of a usurious
contract, and yet we say, speaking technically, that a usurious agreement is no contract.
By the obligation of a contract, we should understand the
-constitution to mean, the duty of performing a legal agreement. If the contract be lawful, the party is bound to
perform it. But bound by what 9 What is it that binds
him? And this leads to what we regard as a principal
fallacy in the argument on the other side. That argument supposes, and insists, that the whole obligation of
a contract has its origin in the municipal law. This position we controvert. We do not say that it is that obligation which springs from conscience merely; but we deny
that it is only such as springs from the particular law of the
place where the contract is made. It must be a lawful con-tract, doubtless, that is, permitted and allowed, because
society has a right to prohibit all uch contracts, as well as
all such actions, as it deems to be mibchlevous or injuriou.
But if the contract be lich a_ the law of 'cietv tolerates

240

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1827.
v
Ogden
V.

Saunders.

in other words, if it be lawful, then we say, the duty of performing it springs from universal law. And this is the concurrent setisebf all the writers of authority.
The dlity of performing promises is thus shown to rest
on universal law, and if. departinig from this wellfestablished
principle, we now follow the teachers who instruct us that
the obligation of a contract has its origin in the law of a
particular State, and is, in all caset, what that law makes it,
and no more, and no less, we shall.probably find ourselves
involved in inexplicable diliculties. A man promises, fora
valuable consideration, to pay money in New-York; is the
obligation of that contract created by the laws of that StateI
or does it subsist independent of those laws 9 We contend
that the obligation of a contract, that is, the duty of performing it, is not created by the, law of the particular place
where it is made, and dependent on that law for its exi .tence;
but that it may subsist, and does subsist, without that law,
and independent of it. The obligation is in the contract
itself, in the assent of the parties, and in the sanction of unversal law. This is the doctrine of Grotius, Vattel, Burle.
maquz, Pothzer, and Rutherforth. The contractrdoubtless,
is necessarily to be enforced by the municipal law of the
place where performance is demanded. The niianicipal
law acts on the contract after it is made, to cqonpel its
execution, or give damages for its violation. But this is a
very diffieretit thing from the same law, being the origin or
fountain of the contract. Let us illustrate this matter by
an example. Two persons contract together in New-York
for the delivery, by one to the other, of a domestic animal
or utensil of husbandry, or a weapon of war. This is a
lawful contract, and while the parties remain in New-York,
it is to be enforced by the Jaws of that State. But if they
remove with the article to Pennsylvania or Maryland, there
a new law comes to act upon the contract, and to apply
other remedies if it be broken. Thus far the remedies are
furnished by the lawt of society. But suppose the same
parties to go together to a savage wilderness, or a desert
island, beyond the reach of the laws of any society, the
obligation of the contract still subsists, and is as perfect as
A
-ver. and iF now to be enforced bv another law. that is tt

OF THE UNITED STATES.

A L

1827.
law of nature, and-the party to whom the promise was
made, has a right to take by force the animal, the utensili.or
V.
the weapon, that was promised to him. Therrightis as per- Ogden
fect here, as it was in Pennsylvania, or even in New-York, Saunders.
but this could not be so if the obligation were created by
th law of New-York, or were dependent on that law for its
existence, because the laws of that State can have no operation beyond its territory. Let us reverse this. example.
Suppose a contract to be made between two persons cast
ashore on an uninhabited territory, or in a place over which
no law of socie~ extends. There are such places; and
contracts have been made there by individuals casually
there, and these contracts have been enforced in Courts of
law in civilized communities. Whence do such contracts
derive their obligation, ifnot from universal law 9
If these considerations show us that the obligation of a
lawful contract does not derive its force from the particular
law of the place where made, but may exist where that law
does not exist, and be enforced where thai law has no validity, then it follows, we contend, that any statute which
diminishes or lessens its obligation, does impaib ft, wheThe
ther it precedes. or succeeds the contract in dre
contract having an independent origin, whenever the law
comes to exist together with it, and interferes with it, it lessens, we say, and impairs its own original and independent
obligation. In the case before the Court the cbntract did
not owe its existence to the particular law of New-York; it
did not depend'onthat law, but could be enforced without
the territory of that State, as well as within it. Nevertheless, though legal, though thus independently existing,
though thus binding the party every where, and capable of
being enforced every where, yet, the statute of New-York
says, that it shall be discharged without payment. This,
we say, impairs the obligation of that contract. It is admitted to have been legal in its inception, legal in its full
extent, and capable of being enforced by other tribunals according to its terms. An act, then, purporting to discharge it
without payment, is. as we contend, an act impairing its
obligation.
VOL. X11.

242

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1827.
Ogden
V.

But here we meet the opposite argument, stated on difl,occasions in different terms, but usually summed up in
this. that the law itself is a part of the contract. ard. there-

Srent

Saunders. fore, cannot impair it. What does this mear. Let us seek
for clear ideas. It d.eb riot mean that the law gives any
particular construction to the terms of the contract, or that
it makes the promise, or the consideration, or the time of
performance, other than they are expressed in the instrument itself. It can only mean, that it is to be taken as a
part of the contract, or underttanding of the parties, that
the contract itself shall be enforced by such laivs and regulations, respecting remedy, and for the enforcement of contracts, as are in being in the State where it is made at the
time of entering into it. This is meant, or nothing very
clearly intelligible is meant, by saying the law is part of the
contract.
There. is no authority in adjudaed cases, for the plaintiff
in error, but the State decisions which have been cited, and,
as has already been stated, they all rest on this reason, that
the law is part of the contract.
Against this we contend,
1st. That if the proposition were true, the consequence
would not follow.
0d. That the proposition itself cannot be maintained.
1. If it were true that the law is to be considered as part
of the contract, the consequence contended for would not
follow; because, if this statute be part of the contract, so
is every other legal or constitutional provision existing at the
time which affects the contract, or which is capable of affecting it; and especially this very article of the constitution
of the United States is part of the contract. The plaintiff
in error argues in a complete circle. He supposes the parties to have had reference to it because it was a binding
law, and yet he proves it to be a binding law only upon the
ground that such reference was made to it. We come before the Court alleging the law to be void as unconstitutional; they stop the inquiry by opposing to us the law itself.
Is this logical 9 Is it not precisely objectio ejus. cujus dissoIluu, petitur 9 If one bring a bill to set aside ajudgment, is
that.judement itself a -ood plea in bar to the bill" We pro-

Ok THE UNITED *'rATME

132?.
pose to inquire if this law is of fbrce to control our contract.
or whether, by the constitution of the United States, such
Ogden
force be not denied to it. The plaintiff in error stops us
by saying that it does control the contract, and so arrives Saunders.
shortly at the end of the debate. Is it not obvious, that
supposing the act of New-York to be a part of the contract,
the question still remains as undecided as ever. What is
that act? Is it a lazu, oriis it a nullity 9 A thing of force, or
a thing of no force? Suppose the parties to have contemplated thia act, what did they contemplate 9 its words only,
or its legal effect 9 its words, or the force which the constitution of the United States allowed to it? If the parties
contemplated any law, they contemplated all the law that
bore on theii contract, the aggregate of all the statute and
constitutional provisions. To suppose that they had in
view one statute, without regarding others, or that they con.
templated a statute without considering that paramount
constitutional provisions might control or qualify that statute, or abrogate it altogether, is unreasonable and inadmissible. " This contract," says one of the authorities relied
on, " is to be construed as if the law were specially recited
in it." Let it be so for the sake of argument. But it is
also to be construed as if the prohibitory clause of the constitution were recited in it, and this brings us back again to
the precisepoint from which we departed.
The constitution always accompanies the law, and the
latter can have no force which the former does not allow to
it. If the reasoning were thrown into the form of special
pleading, it would stand thus: the plaintiff declares on his
debt, the defendant pleads his discharge under the law , thplaiitiff alleges the law unconstitutional, but the defendant
says, you knew of its existence, to which the answer is obvious and irresistible, I knew its existence on the statute
book of New-York, but I knew, at the same time, it was null
and void tinder the constitution of the United States.
The language of another leading decision is, "a law in
force at the time of making the contract does not violate
that contract ;" but the very question is, whether there be
any such law "inforce ::" for if the States have no authority

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

:44
1827.
Ogden
V.

to pass such laws, then no such law can be in force. The
constitution is a part of the coutract as much as the law, and
was as much in the contemplation of the parties. So that

Saunders. the proposition, if it be admitted, that the law is part of the
contract, leaves us just where it found us, that is to say, under the necessity of comparing the law with the constitution,
and of deciding by such comparison whether it be valid or
invalid. If the law be unconstitutional, it is void, and no
party cdn be supposed to have had reference to a ,void law.,
If it be constitutional, no refereice to it need be supposed.
2. But the proposition itself cannot be maintained. The
law is no part of the contract. What part is it 9 the pro9
mise ? the consideration 9 the condition Clearly, it is neither of these. It is no term of the contract. It acts upon
the contract only when it is broken, or to discharge the party from its obligation after it is broken. The municipal law
is the force of sockety employed to compel the performance
of contracts. In every judgment in a suit on contract,.the
damages are given, and the imprisonment of the person or
sale of.goods awarded, not in performance of the contract,
or-is part of the contract, but as an indemnity for the breach
of the contract. Even interest, which is a strong case,
where it is not expressed in the contract itsel4 can onlybe
given as damages. It is nearly absurd to say that a man's
goos are sold on-afler; factas, or that he himself goes to
gaol, in pursuance of his contract. These are the penalties
wich the law. inflicts for 1he breach of his contract.- Doubtless, parties, when they enter into contracts, may well consider-both what their rights and what their liafilities will be
by the law, if such contracts be broken, but this contemplation of consequences which can ensue only when the contract is broken, is no part of the contract itself. The law
has nothing to do with the contract till it be broken; how
9
then can it be said to form a part of the contract itself
But there are other cogent and more specific reasons
against considering the law as part of the contract. (1.) If
the law be part of the contract, it cannot be repealed or alte'red; because, in such case, the repealing or modifying law
itself would impair the obligation 6f the contract. Thqejnsolvent law of New-York, for example2 authorizes the dis-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

245

1827.
charge of a debtor on the consent of iwo-thirds of his creditors. A subsequent act requires the consent of three-fourths ,
law Ogden
but if the existing law be part of the contract, this latter
would be void. In short, whatever is part of the contract Saunders.
cannot be varied but by consent of the parties; therefore the
argument runs zn absurdum ; for it proves that no laws for
enforcing the contract or giving remedies upon it, or any way
affecting it, can be changed ormodified between its creation
and its end. If the law in question binds one party on the
ground of assent to it, it binds both, and binds them until
they agree to terminate its operation. (2.) If the party be
bound by an implied assent to the law, as thereby making
the law a part of the contract, how would it be if the parties
had expressly dissented, and agreed that the law should
make no part of the contract 7 Suppose the promise to have
been, that the promissor would pay at all events, and not
take advantage of the statute ; still, would not the statute
operate on the whole, on this particular agreement and all 9
and does not this show that the law is no part of the contract,
but something above it? (3.) If the law of the place be part
of the contract, one of its terms and conditions, bow could
it be enforced, as we all know it might be, in anotherjurisdictlon, which should have no regard to the law of the place?
Suppose the parties, after the contract, to remove to another
State, do they carry the law with them as part of their contract? We all know they do not. Or take a common case;
some States have laws abolishing imprisonment for debt;
these laws, according to the argument, are all parts of the
contract; how then can the party, when sued-in another
State, be imprisoned contrary to the terms of his contract"
(4.) Th6 argument proves too much, inasmuch as it applies
-as strongly to prior as to subsequent contracts. It is fouxided on a supposed assent to the exercise of legislative authority, without considering whether that exercise be legal
or illegal. But it is equally fair to found the argument on an
implied assent to the potefitial exercise of that authority.
The implied reference to the control of legislative power, is
as reasonable and as strong when that power is dormant, as
while it is in exercise. In one case, the argument is, "the
law existed, you knew it, and acquiesced." In the other, it

tASES IN THE SUPREME (;OURWI

1827.
v
Ogden
V.

is, "the power to pass the law existed, you knew it, and
took your chance." There is as clear an assent in the one
instance as in the other. Indeed, it is more reasonable and

Saunders. more sensible, to imply a geiieral assent to all the laws of society, present and to come, from the fact of living in it, than
it is to imply a particular assent to a particular existing
enactment. The true view of the matter is, that every man
is presumed to submit to all power which may be lawfully
exercised over him, or his right, and no one should be presumed to submit to illegal acts of power, whether actual or
contingent. (5.) But a main objection to this argument is,
that it would render the whole constitutional provision idle
and inoperative; and no explanatory words, if such words
had been added in the constiftution, could have prevented
this consequence. The law, it is said, is part of the contract;
it cannot, therefore, impair the contract, because a contract
cannot impair itself. Now, if this argument be sound, the
case would have been the same, whatever words the constitution had used. If, for example, it had declared that no
State should pass any law impairing contracts prospectively or
retrospectively, or law impairing contracts, whether existing
'or future; or whatever terms it had used to prohibit precisely
such a law as is now before the Court, the prohibition would
be totally nugatory if the law is to be taken as part of the
contract; and the result would be, that, whatever may be
the laws which the States by this clause of the constitution
are prohibited from passing, yet, ifthey in fact do pass such
laws, those laws are valid, and bind parties by a supposed
assent.
But further, this idea, if well founded, would enable-the
States to defeat the whole cotistitutional provision by a general enactment. Suppose a State should declare, by law.
that all contracts entered into therein, should be subject to
such raws as the legislature, at any time, or from time to
time, might see fit to pass. This law, according to the argument, would enter into the contract, become a part of it,
and authorize the interference of the legislative power with
it, for any and all purposes, wholly uncontrolled by the constitution of the United States.
So much for the argument that the law is a part of the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

247

1827.
contract. We think it-is shown to be not so; and, if it were,
the expected consequence would not follow.
V.
The inquiry, then, recurs, whether the law in question Ogden
be such a law as the legislature of New-York had authority Saunders
to pass. The question is general. We differ from our
learned adversaries on general principles. We differ as to
the main scope and end of this constitutional provision.
They think it entirely remedial: we regard it as preventive.
They think it adopted to secure redress for violated private
rights : to us it seems intended to guard against great public mischiefs. They argue it, as if it were designed as an
indemnity or protection for injured-private rights, in individual cases of maum and tuum: we look upon it as a great
political provision, favourable to the commerce and credit
of the whole country. Certainly we do not deny its application to cases of violated private right. Such cases are
clearly and unquestionably within its operation. Still, we
think its mam scope to be general and political. And this,
we think, is proved by reference to the history of the country, and to the great objects which were sought to be obtained by the establishment of the present government;
Commerce, credit, and confidence, were the principal things
which did not exist under the old confederation, and which
it was a main object of the present constitution to create
and establish. A vicious system of legislation, a system of
paper money and tender laws, had completely paralyzed industry, threatened to beggar every man of property, and ultimately to ruin the country. The relation between debtor
and creditor, always delicate, and always dangerous whenever it divides societf, and draws out the respective parties
into different ranks and classes, was in such a condition in
the years 1787, '88, and '89, as to threaten the overthrow
of all government, and a revolution was menaced, much
more critical and alarming than that through which the
country had recently passed. The object of the new constitution was to arrest these evils ; to awaken industry by
giving security to property, to establish confidence, credit.
and commerce, by salutary laws, to be enforced by the power of the whole community. The revolutionary war was
over. the countrv had peace, but little domestic tranquillitv

248

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

liberty, but few of its enjoyments, and none of its security.
States had struggled togetner-, but their union was imOgden perfect. They had freedom, but not -an eptnhlished course
Saunders. of justice. The constitution was therefbrp framed, as it
professes, "1toform a more perfect union, to establish justice, to secure the blessings of liberty, and to insure domes-,
tic tranquillity."
It is not pertinent to this occasion, to advert to all the
means by whu-h these desirable ends were to be obtained.
Some of them, closely connected with the subject now under consideration, are obvious and prominent. The objects
were, commerce, credit, and mutual confidence in matters of
property, and these required, among other things, a uniform
standard of value, or medium of payments. One of the
first powers given to Congress, therefore, is that of
coining money, and fixing the value of foreign coins;
and one of the first restraints imposed on the States, is
the total prohibition to coin money. These two provisions are industriously followed up and completed, by
denying to the States all power of emitting bills of credit, or of making, any thing but gold and silver a tender
in the payment of debts. The whole control, therefore,
over the standard of value, and medium of payments, is
vested in the general government. And here the question
instantly suggests itself, why should such pains be taken to
confide in Congress alone this exclusive power of fixing on
a standard valtue, and of prescriblng the medium in which
debts shall be paid, if it is, after all, to be left to every State
to declare that -debts may be discharged, and to prescribe
how they may be discharged, without any payment at all?
WYhy say that no man shall be obliged to take in discharge
of a debt paper money issued by the authority of a State.
and yet say, thatby the same authority the debt may be discharged without any payment whatever 9
We contend, that the constitution has not left its work
thus unfinished. We contend, that,taking its provisions togetler, it is apparent it was intended to provide for two things,
intimately connected with each other.
I A uniform medium for the payment of debts.
1827.

'The

UP THE UNITED STATES.

24a

2. A uniform manner of discharging debts when they are
182'?.
to be discharged without payment.
V.
The arrangement of the grants and prohibition contained Ogden
in the constitution, are fit to be regarded on this occasion. Saunders.
The grant to Congress, and the prohibition on the States,
though they are certainly to be construed together, are not
contained in the same clauses. The powers granted to
Congress are enumerated one after another in the eighth
section; the principal limitations on those powers, in the
ninth section, and the prohibitions to the States, an the
tenth section. Now, in order to understand whether any
particular power be exclusively vested in Congress, it is necessary to read the terms of the grant, together with the
terms of the prohibition. Take an example from that
power of which we have been speaking, the coinage power.
Here the grant to Congress is, "To coin money, regulate
the value thereof, and Qf foreign coins." Now, the correllative prohibition on the States, though foundivt anoth6r section, is, undoubtedly, to be taken in immediate connexion
with the foregoing, as much so as if it had been found in the
same clause. The only just reading of these provisions,
therefore, is this : " Congressshall have power to corn money,
regulate the value thereof, and of foreign coin; but no State
shall corn money, emit bills of credit, or make any thing but
gold and sil'ver coin a tender n payment of debts."
These prpoisions respect the med-um o'" payment, or
standard- of value, and, thus collated, their joint result is
clear and d cisive. We think the result clear also, of those
provisions, which respect the discharge of debts without
SEyment. Collated in like manner, they stand thus. "Congress shall have power to.establishuniform laws on the subject of -bankruptzces throughout the United States, but no
State shall pass any law impazring the obligation of contracts." This collocation cannot be objected to if they
refer to the same subject matter; and that they do refer to
the same subject matter, we have the authority of this
Court for saying, becausethis Court solemnly determined,
in Sturges v. Crownsnshzeld, that this prohibition on the
States did apply to systems of bankruptcy. It must be now
32
Vor.. XTI.

250

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

taken, therefore, that State bankrupt laws were in the mind
1827.
%-V_.' of the Convention when the prohibition was adopted, and,
Ogden
therefore, the grant to Congress on the subject of bankrupt
Ir.
Saunders. laws, and the prohibition to the State on the same subject,
are properly to be taken and read together, and being thus
read together, is not the intention clear to take away from
the States the power of passing bankrupt laws, since, while
enacted by them, such laws would not be uniform, and to
confer the power exclusively on Congress, by whom uniiorm laws could be established?
Suppose the order of arrangement in the constitution
had been otherwise than it is, and that the prohibitions to
the States had preceded the grants of power to Congress,
the two powers, when collated, would then have read thus . Jko State shallpass any law tmpazrzng the obligation of
contracts; but Congress may establish uniform laws on the
subject of bankruptces." Could any man have doubted, in
the.t case, that the meaning -was, that the States should not
pass laws discharging debts without payment, but that Congiess might establish uniform bankrupt acts 9 and yqt this
inversion of the order of the clauses does not alter their
sense. We contend, that Congress alone possesses the
power of establishing bankrupt laws; and although we are
aware, that in Sturges v. Crownnshteld,the Court decided,
that such an exclusive power could not'be inferred from the
words of the grant in the seventh section, we yet would respectfully request the bench to reconsider this point. We
think it could not have been intendedthat both the States
and general government should exercise this power; and,
therefore, that a grant to one implies the prohibition on the
.her. But not to press a topic which the Court has alfeady had under its consideration, we contend, that even
without reading the clauses of the coipstitution in the connexion which we have suggested, and-which is, believed tobe
the true one, the prohibition in the tenth section, taken by
itself, does forbid the enactment of State bankrupt laws, as
applied to future, as well as present debts. We argue this
from the words of the prohibition, from the association
they are found in, and from the objects intended.
I The words are general. The States can pass no law

OF THE UNITED STATES.
impairing contracts, that is, any contract. In the nature
1827.
of things a law may impair a future contract, and, there-k-v-%.
fore, such contract is within the protection of the constitu- Ogden
V.
tion. The words being general, it is for the other side to Saunders.
ahow a limitation,, and this, it is submitted, they have wholly
failed to do, unless they shall have established the doctrine
that the law itself is part of the contract. It may be added,
that the particular expression of the constitution is worth
regarding. The thing prohibited is called a lazo, not an
act; a law, in its general acceptation, is a rule prescribed
for future conduct, not a legislative interference with existing rights. .The framers of the constitution would hardly
have given the appellation of law to violent invasions of individual right, or individual property, by acts of legislative
power. Although, doubtless, such acts fall within this prohibition, yet they are prohibited also by general principles,
and by the constitutions of the States, and, therefore, further provision against such acts was not so necessary as
against other mischiefs.
2. The most conclusive argument, perhaps, arises from
the c6inexion in which the clause stands. The words of
th, prohibition, so far as it applies to civil rights, or rights of
property, are, "that no State shall coin money, emit bills of
credit, make any thing but gold and silver coin a tender in
the payment of debts, or pass any law impairing the obligation of contracts." The prohibition of attainders, and ea.
postfacto laws, refer entirely to criminal proceedinrgs, and,
therefore, should be considered as standing by themselves;
but the other parts of the prohibition are connected by the
subject matter, and ought, therefore, to be construed together. Taking the words thus together, according to their
natural connexion, how is it possible to give a more limited
construction to the term " contracts," in the last branch of
the sentence, than to the word "debts," in that immediately preceding? Can a State make any thing but gold and
silver a tender in payment of future debts 9 This nobody
pretends. But what ground is there for a distinction ' No
State shall make any thing but gold and silver a tender in
the payment of debts, nor pass any law impairing the obligation of 6ontracts. Now, by what reasoning is it. made

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1827.
v
Ogdeh

out that the"debts here spoken of, are any debts, either existing or future, but that the .contracts spoken of are subssting contracts only' Such a distinction seems to us

Saunders. wholly arbitrary. We see no ground for it. Suppose the
article, where it uses the word debts, had used the word
contracts. The sense would have been the same then, as
it now is, but the identity of terms %youldhave made the
nature of the distinction now contended for somewhat more
obvious. Thus altered, the clause would read, that no
State should make any thing but gold and silver a tender
in discharge of contracts, nor pass any law impairing the
obligation of contracts; yet the first of these expressions
would have been held to apply to all contracts,and the last
to subsisting contracts only. This shows the consequence
of what is now contended for in a strong light. It is certain that the substitution of the' word contracts, for debts:
would not alter the sense, and an argument that could not be
sustained if such substitution were made, cannot be sustained now. We maintain, therefore, that if tender laws may
not be made for future debts, neither can bard /upt laws be
made for future contracts. All the arguments ed here niay
be applied with equal force to tender laws for future debts.
It may be said, for instance, that when it speaks of debts, the
constitution means existing debts, and not mere possibilities

of future debt; that the object was to preserve vested
rights, and that if a man, after a tender law had passed, had
contracted a debt, the manner in which that tender law authorized that debt to be discharged, became part of the contract, and that the whole debt, or whole obligation was thus
qualified by the pre-existing law, and was no more than a
contract to deliver so much paper money, or of whatever
other article which might be made a tender, as the original
bargain expressed. Arguments of this sort will not be found
wanting in favour of tender laws, if the Court yield to simiisr arguments in favour Sf bankrupt laws.
These several prohibitions of the constitution stand in the
same paragraph, they have the same purpose, and were introduced for the same object; they.are expressed in words
of similar import, in grammar, and in sense, they are subiect to the same construction. and. we think, no reasonhas

253

OF THE UNITED STATE,.

yet been given for imposing an important restriction on one
1827.
part of them, which does not equally show, that the same reOgden
stnction might be imposed also on the other part.
We have already endeavoured to maintain, that one great Saunders.
political object, intended by the constitution, would be defeated, if this construction weie allowed to prevail. As an
object of political regulation, it was not important to prevent
the States from passing bankrupt laws applicable to present
debts, while the power was left to them in regard to future
debts; nor was it at all important, in a political point of view,
to prohibit tender laws as to future debts, while it was yet
left to the States to pass laws for the discharge of such debts,
which, after all, are little different, in principle, from tender
laws. Look at the law before the Court in this view. It
provides that if the debtor will' surrender, offer, or tender to
trustees, for the benefit of his creditors, all his estate and effects, he shall be discharged from all his debts. If it had
authorized a tender of any, thing but money to any one creditor, though it-were of a value equal to the debt, and thereupon provided for a dischargi, it would have been clearly
invalid. Yet it is maintained to be good, merely because it
is made for all creditors, and seeks a discharge from all debts;
although the thing tendered may not be equivalent to a shilling in the pound of those debts. This shows, again, very
clearly how the constitution has failed of its purpose, if, having in terms prohibited all tender laws, and taken so much
pains to establish a uniform medium of payment, it has yet
left the States the power of discharging debts, as they may
see fit, without any payment at all.
To recapitulate, what has been said, we maintain, first.
that the constitution, by its grants to Congress, and its pro.
hibitions on the States, has sought to establish one uniform
standard of value, or medium of payment.

Second, that, by

like means, it has endeavoured to provide for one'uniform
mode of discharging debts, when they are to be discharged
without payment. Third, that these objects are connected,
and that the first loses much of its importance, if the last,
also, be not accomplished. Fourth, that reading the grant
to Congress and the prohibition on the States together, the
inference is strong that the constitution intended to confer

2544
1827.
Ogden

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
an exclusive power to pass bankrupt Jalss on Congress.

~ Fifth, that the prohibition, in'the tenth section, reaches to
all contracts existing or future, in the same way as the other

V.

Saunders. prohibition in the same section extends to all debts existing
or future. Sixthly, and that, upon any other constructiot
one great political object of the constitution will fail of its
accomplishment.
Feb. 19ta.

The learnedjudges delivered their opinions as follows :
Mr. Justice WASHINGTON.
The first and most importint
point to be decided in this cause turns essentially upon the
q~iestion, whether the obligation of a contract is impaired by
a State bankrupt or insolvent law, which discharges the person and the future acquisitions of the debtor from his liability
under a contract entered into in that State after the passage
of the act?
This question has never before been distinctly presented
to the consideration of this Court; and decided, although
it has been supposed by the judges of a highlyr respectable
State Court, that it was decided in the case of .M'.MillaM= v.
MA'Jel, (4 Wheat. Rep 209.) That was the case of a debt
contracted by two citizens of South Carolina, in that State,
the discharge of which had a view to no other State. The
debtor afterwards removed to the territory of Louisiana,
-where he was regularly discharged, as an insolvent, from all
his debts, under an act of the legislature of that State, passed prior to the time when the debt in question was contracted. To an action brought by the creditor in the District'Court of Louisiana, the defendant plead in bar his discharge, under the law of that territory, and it was contended by the counsel for the debtor in this Court, that the law
underwhich the debtor was discharged, having passed before the contract was made, it could not be said to .impair
its obligation. The cause was argued on one side only,
and it would seem from the report of the case, that no written opinion was prepared by the Court. The Chief Justice
stated that the circumstance of the State law, under which the
debt was attempted, to be discharged, having been passed before the debt was contracted, made no difference in the application of the princple, which had been asserted by the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

255

Court in the case of Sturges v. Cromnshield. The cor- 1827.
rectness-of this position is believed to be incontrovertible.
law, Ogden
The principle alluded to was, that a State bankrupt
which impairs the obligation of a contract, is unconstitu- Saundera.
tional in its application to such contract. In that 'case, it is
true, the contract preceded in order of time the act of assembly, under which the debtor was discharged, although it
was not thought necessary to notice that circumstance in
the opinion which was pronounced. The principle, however, remained in the opinion of the Court, delivered in
JMilMillan v. M'.Mel, unaffected by the circumstance that the
law of Louisiana preceded a contract made in another
State, since that law, having no extra-territorial force, never
dia at any time govern or affect the obligation of such
contract. It could not, therefore, be correctly said to be
prior to the contract, in reference to its obligation, since if,
upon legal principles, it could affect the contract, that could
nothappen until the debtor became a citizen bf Louisiana,
and that was subsequent to the contract. But I hold the
principle to be well established, that a discharge under the.
bankrupt laws of one government, does not affect contracts
made or to be executed under another, whether the law be
prior or subsequent in the date to that of the contract, and
this I take to be the only point really decided in the case al'luded to. Whether the Chief Justice was iorrectly understood by the Reporter, when he is supposed to have said,
"that this case was not distinguishable in principle from the
preceding case of Sturges v. Crownnshied," it is not material-at this time to inquire, because I understand the meaning of these expressions to go no farther than to intimate,
that there was no distinction between the cases as to the
constitutional objection, since it professed to discharge a
debt contracted in another State, which, at the time it was
contracted, was not within its opertion, nor subject to be
discharged by it. The case now to be decided, is that of a
debt contracted in the State of New-York, by a citizen of
that State, from which he was discharged, so far as he constitutionally could be, under a bankrupt law of that State,
in force at the time when the debt was contracted. .It is a
case, therefore. that bears no resemblance to the one just
noticed

256

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1827.

1 come now to the consideration of the question, which,
the first time, has been directly brought before this
Court for judgment. I approach it with more than ordinary

Sfor

Ogden
V.

Saunders. sensibility, not only on account of its iqiportance, which
must be acknowledged by.all, but of its inmtrnsic difficulty,
which every step I have taken in arriving at a conclusion
with which my judgment could in any way be satisfied,
has convinced me attends it. I have examined both sides
of this great question with the most sedulous care, and the
most anxious desire to discover which of them, when adopted, would be most likely to fulfil the intentions of those!
who framed the constitution of the United States. I am
far.from asserting that my labours have resulted in entire
success. They have led me to the only conclusion by
which I can stand with any degree of confidence; and yet,
1 skould be disingenuous were I to declare, from this place,
that I embrace it without hesitation, and without a doubt of
its correctness. The most that candour will permit me to
say upon the subject is, that I see, or think I see, my way
more clear on the side which my judgmentleads me to adopt,
than on the other, and it must remain for others to decide
whether the guide I have chosen has been a safe one or not.
It has constantly appeared to me, throughout the different investigations of this question, to which it has beenmy
duty td attend, -that the error of thosie who controvert the
constitutionality of the bankrupt law under consideration, in its application to this case, if they be in error at all,
has arisen from not distinguishing accurately between a law
which impairs a contract, and one which impairs its obligation, A contract is defined by all to be an agreementto
do, or not to do, some particular act, and in the construction of'this agreement, depending essentially upon the will
of the parties between whom it is formed, we seek for their
intention with a view to fulfil it. Any law, then, which enlarges, abridges, or in any manner changes this intention,
when it is discovered, necessarily impairsothe contivct itself,
which is but the evidence of that intention. The manir,
or the degree, in which this change is effected, can in no respect influeqe. thtsq.onclusion ; f9r whether the law aghct
the validity, #e conotruction, the duration, the iwi* of di -

OF THE UNITED SYATE.

ciiarge, or the evidence of the agreement, it impairs the 1827.
contract, though it may not do so to the same extent in all
the supposed cases. Thus, a law which declares that no Ogden
action shall be brought whereby to charge a person upon Saunders
his agreement to pay the debt of another, or upon an agreement relating to lands, unless the same be reduced to writing, impairs a contract made by parol, whether the law
precede or follow the making ot' such contract; and, if the
argument that this law also Impairs, in the former case, the
otligation of the contract, be sound, it must follow, that the
statute of frauds, and all other statutes which in any manner
meddle with contracts, impair their obligation, and are, consequently, within the operation of this section and artich;
of the constitution. It will not do to answer, that, in the
particular case put, and in others of the same nature, there
is no contract to impair, since the pre-existing law denies
all remedy for its enforcement, -or forbids the making of it,
since. it is impossible to denythat the parties have expressed
their'will in the form of a contract, notwithstanding the law
denies to it any valid obligation.
This leads us to a critical examination of the particular
phraseology of that part of the above section which relates
to contracts. It is a law which impairs the obligation of
contracts, and not the contracts themselv~s,,which is interdicted. It is not to be doubted, that this term, obligation,
when applied to contracts, was well considered and weighed
by those who framed the constitution, and was intended to
convey a different meaning from what the prohibition would

have imported without it. It is this meaning of which we
are ll ii search.
What is it, then, which constitutes the obligation of a.

contract? The answer is given by the Chief.Justice, in the
cape of Sturges v.- Cromnrnsheld,to which I readily assent
now, as I did then, it is the law which binds the parties to perform their agreement. The lai, then, which has this binding

obligation, must govern and control the contract in every
shape in which it is intended to bepr upon it, whether it af-

fectits validity, construction, or discharge.
But- the question, which law is referred to in the above
33
Yo . XII.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1i 7.definition, still remains to be solved. It cannot, for a mobe conceded that- the mere moral law is intended,
Ogden since the obligation which that imposes is altogether of the
V.
Saunders. imperfect kind, which the parties to it are free to obey, or
not, as they please. It cannot be supposed, that it was with
this law the grave authors. of this instrument were dealing.
The universal law of alW civilized nations, which detlares
that men shall perform that to which they have agreed, has
been supposed by the counsel who have argued this cause'
for the defendant in error, to be the law which is alluded to;
and I have no objection to acknowledging its obligation,
whilst I must deny that it is that which exclusively governs
the contract. It is upon this law that the obligation which
nations acknowledge to perform their compacts with each
other is founded, and I, therefore, feel no objection to answer the question asked by the same counsel-what law it
is which constitutes the obligation of the compact between
Virginia and Kentucky 9 by admitting, that it is this common
law of nations which requires them to pelform it. I admit
further, that it is this law which creates the obligation of a
contract made upon a desert spot, where no municipal law
exists, and (which was another case put by the same counsel)
which contract, by the tacit assent of all nations, their tribttnals are authorized to enforce.
-But can it be seriously insisted, that this, any more Than
the moral law upon which it is founded, was exclusively m
the contemplation of those who framed this constitution ?
What is the language of this universal law 9 It is simply
that all men are bound to perform their contracts. The injunction is as absolute as the contracts to -which it applies.
It admits of no qualification, and no restraint, either as to its
validity, construction, or discharge, further than may be necessary to develope the intention of the parties to the con-.
tract. And if it be true, that this is exclusively the law to
which the constitution refers us, it is very apparent, that the
sphere of State legislation upon subjects connected with the
contracts of individuals, would be abridged beyond what it
can fora momentbebelieved the sovereign States of thisUnion
would have consented to; for it will be found, upon examination, that there are few laws which concern the general

'ment,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

police of a state, or. the government of its citizens, in then

2594
1827.

intercourse with each other, or with strangers, which may
Ogden
not in some way or other affect the contracts which they have
V.
entered into. or may thereafter form. For what are laws Sauaders.
of evidence, or which concern remedies-frauds and perjuries-laws of registrationand those which affect landlord and
tenant, saleat aucition, acts -of limitation, and those which
limit the fees of professional men, and the charges of tavern
keepers, and a multitude of others which crowd the codes of
e ry State, but laws which may affect the validity, construction, or duration, or discharge of contracts 7 Whilst I
admit, then, that this common law of nations, which has
been mentioned, may form in part the obligation of a contract, I must unhesitatingly insist, that this law is to be taken
in strict, subordination to the municipal laws of the land
where the contract is made, or is to be executed. The former can be satisfied by nothing short of performance; the
latter may affect and control the validity, construction.
evidence, remedy, performance and discharge of the contract. The former is the common law of all civilized
nations, and of each of them, the latter is the peculiar law
.of each, and is paramount to the former whenever they come
in collision with each other..
It is, then, the municipal law of the State, whether that be
written or unwritten, which is emphatically the law of the
contract made within the State, and must govern it throughout, wherever its performance is sought to be enforced.
It forms, in my humble opinion, a part of the contract,
and travels with it wherever the parties to it may be found.
It is so regarded by all the civilized nations of the world,

and is enforced by the tribunals of those nations according
to its own forms, unless the parties to it have otherwise
agreed, as where the contract is to be executed in, or refers
to the laws of, some other country than that in which it is
formed, or where it is of an immoral character, or contravenes the policy of the nation to whose tribunals the appeal
is made, in which latter cases, the remedy which the comity
of nations affords for enforcing the obligation of contracts
wherever formed; is denied. 'Free from these objections.
this law, whichaccompanies the contract as forming a part of

6,ASES IN THE SUPREME COUWI
1827.

it, is regarded and enforced every where, whether it affect

validity, construction, or discharge of the contract. It
is upon this principle of universal law, that the discharge
Saunders. of the contract, or of one of the parties to it, by the bankrupt laws of the country where it was made, operates as a
discharge every where.
If then, it be true, that the law of the country where the
contract is made, or to be executed, forms a part of that
contract, and of its obligation, it w'ould seem to be somewhat of a solecism to say, that it does, at the same time, impair that obligation.
But, it is contended, that if the municipal law of tlo
State where the contract is so made, lorm a part of it, so
does that clause of the constitution which prohibits the
States from passing laws to impair the obligation of contracts, and, consequently, that the law is rendered inoperative by force of its controlling associate. 'All this I admit,
provided it be first proved, that the law so incorporated
with, and forming a part of the contract, does, in eflct, impair its obligation, and before this can be proved, it must
be affirmed, and satisfactorily made out, that if, by the terms
of the contract, it is agreed that, on the happening of a
certain event, as, upon the future insolvenc) of one of the
parties, and his surrender of all his property for the benefit
of his creditors, the contract shall be considered as performed and at an end, this stipulation would impair the obligation of the contract. If this proposition can be successfully
affirmed, I can only say, that the soundness of it is beypnd
the reach of my mind to understand.
Again; it is insisted, that if the law of the contract forms
a part of it, the law itself cannot be repealed without tin.
pairng the obligation of the coatract. This proposition I
must be permitted to deny. A may be repealed at any
time at the will of the legislature, and then it ceases to form
any part of those contracts which may afterwards be entered
nto. The repeal isno taore void'than a new law would be
which operates upon contracts to affect their validity, construction, o? duration. Both are valid, (if the view which
I take of this case be correct,) as they may affect contracts
afterwards formed, but neither are so, if they bear upon existing contracts; and, in the former case, in which the reSthe

Ogden
V°

OF THE UNITED STATES.

201

1827.
peal contains no enactment. the constitution would forbid
\,v-'
and
contracts,
past
to
the application of the repealing law
Ogdlen
V.
to those only.
To illustrate this argument, let us take four laws, which, Saxinders.
either-by new enactmeits. oi- by the repeal of former laws,
may affect contracts as to their validity, construction, evidence, or remedy.
Laws against usury are of the first description.
A law which converts a penalty, stipulated for by the
patties, as the only atonement for a breach of the contract.
into a mere agreement for a just compensation, to be measured by the legal rate of interest, is of the second.
The statute of frauds, and the statute of limitations, maybe cited as examples of the two last.
The validit 3 of these laws can never be questioned by
those who accompany me in the view which I take of the
question under consideration, unless they operate, by their
express provisions, upon contracts previously entered into.
and even then they are void only so far as they do so operate, because, in that case, and in that case only, do they
impair the obligation of those contracts. But ifthey equally
impair the-obligation of contracts subsequently made, which
they must do if this be the operation of a bankrupt law
upon sach contracts. it would seem to follow, that all such
laws, whether in the form of new enactments, or of repeal.
ing laws, producing the same legal consequences. are madc
void by the constitution, and yet the counsel for the defendants in error have not ventured to maintain so alarming a
proposition.
If it be conceded that those laws are not repugnant to the
constitution, so far as they apply to subsequent contracts. I
am yet to be instructed how to distinguish between those
laws, and the one now under consideration. How has this
been attempted by the learned counwel who have argued this
-cause upon the ground of such a distinction '
They have insisted, that the effect of the law first supposed, is to annihilate the contract in its birtl, or rather to
prevent it from having a legal existence, and, consequently.
that there is no obligation to be impaired. But this is clearly not so, since it may legitimately avoid all contract%afte

CASES IN THE SUPREME (O;VW'
.1827.
'wPv*'

Ogden
V.

wards entered into, which reserve to thf: lender a higher
rate of interest than this law permits.
The validity of the second law is admitted, anl yet this

Saunders. can only/be in its application to subsequent contracts; for
it has not, and I think it cannot,, for a moment, be maintained, that a law which, in express terms, varie. the coustruction of an existing contract, or which, repealing a former
law, is made to produce the same effect, does not impair the
obligation of that contractThe statute of frauds, and the statute of limitations, which
have been put as examples of the third and fourth classes of
laws, are also admitted to b.e valid, because they merely
concern the modes of proceeding in the trial of causes.
The former, supplying a rule of evidence, and the latter,
forming a part of the remedy given by the legislature to enforce the obligation, and likewise providing a rule of evidence.
All this I admit. But how does it happen that these
laws, like those which affect the validity and construction of
contracts, are valid as to subsequent, and yetvoid as to prior
and subsisting contracts 7 For we are informed by the'learned
judge who delivered the opinion of this Court in the case
of Sturges v. Crownznshteld, that, "if, in a State where six
years may be pleaded in bar to an action of assumpsit, a law
should pass. declaring that contracts already in existence,
not barred bythe statute, should be construed within it, there
could be little doubt of its unconstitutionality."
It is thus most apparent, that, which ever way we turn,
whether to laws affecting the validity, construction, or discharges of contracts, or the evidence or remedy to be employed in enforcing them, we are met by this overruling
and admitted distinction; between those which operate retrospectively, and those which operate prospectively. In
all of them, the law is pronounced to be void in the first class
of cses, and not so in the second.
Letus stop, then, to make amore critical examination of the
act of limitations, which, although it concerns the remedy,
or, if it must be conceded, the evidence, is yet void or otherwise, as it is made to apply retroactively, or prospectively,
and see if it can, upon any intelligible principle, be distin-

OF THE

NITED STATES.

263

gunied from a bankrupt law, when applied in the same man1827.
ner 7 What is the effect of the former 9 The answer is, to
discharge the debtor and all his future acquisitions from his Ogden
V.
contract; because he is permitted to plead it in bar of any Saunders.
remedy which can be instituted against him. and consequently in bar or dcstruction of the obligatioi which his contract
'imposed upon. him. What it the effect ofa discharge under
a bankrupt law? I can answer this question in no other
terms than those which are given to the former question.
If there be a difference, it is one wich., in the eye of justice
at least, is more favourable to the validity of the latter than
of the former; for in the one, the debtor surrenders every
thing which he possesses towards the discharge of his obligation, and in the other, he surrenders nothing, and sullenly
shelters himself behind a legsl objection with which the law
has provided him, for the purpose of protecting his person,
and his present, as well as bis future acquisitions, against the
performance of his contract.
It is said that the former does not discharge him absolutely
from his contract, because it leave& a shadow sufficiently
substantial te raise a consideration for a new promise to pay.
And is-ntthis equally the case with a certificated bankrupt,
who afterwards promises to pay a debt from which his certificate had discharged him I In- the former case, it is said, the
defendant must plead the statute in order to bar the remedy,
and to exempt him from his obligathn. And so, I answer,
he must. plead his discharge under the bankrupt law, and his
conformity to it, in order to bar the remedy of his creditor,
and to secure to himself a like exemption. I have, in short,
sought in vain for some other grounds on which to distinguish the two laws from each other, than those which were
suggested at the bar. I can imagine no other, and I confidently
believe that none exist which will bear the test of a critical
examination.
To the decision of this Court, made in the case of Sturge"
v. Crozonnshteld, and to the reasoning of the learned
Judge who delivered that opinion, I entirely submit; although
I did not then, nor can I now bring my mind to concur in
that part of it which admits the constitutional power of the
State legislatures to pass bankrupt laws, by which I understand, those laws which discharge the person and the future

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURI
1827.
Ogden

acquisitions of the bankrupt from his debt,. I have alwaya
thought that the power to pass such a law was exclusively
vested by the constitution in the legislature of the United

V.

Saunders. States. But it becomes me to believe that this opinion was,
and is incorrect, since it stands condemned by the decision
of a majority of this Court, solemnly pronounced.
After making this acknowledgment, 1 refer agalrf to the
above decision with some degree of confidence, in support
of the opinion to which I am now inclined to come, thit a
bankrupt law, which operates prospectively, or in so far as
it does so operate, does not violate the constitution of the
United States. It is there stated, "that, until the power to
pass uniform laws on the subject of bankruptcies be exercised
by Congress, the States are not forbidden to pass a bankrupt law, provided it contain no principle-which violates the
tenth section of the first article of the constitution of the
United States." The question in that case was, whether
the law of New York, passed on the third of April. 1811,
which liberates, not only the person of the debtor. but discharges him from all liability for any debt contracted previous, as well as subsequent to his discharge, on his surrendering his property for the use of his creditors, was a valid
law under the constitution in its application to a debt contracted prior to its passage 9 The Court decided that it was
not, .pon the single ground that it impaired the obligation
of that contract. And if it be true, that the States cannot
pais a similar law to operate upon contracts subsequently
entered into, it follows inevitably, either that they cannot.
pass such laws at all, contrary to the express declaration o'
the Court, as before quoted, or that such laws do not impaii
the obligation ofcontracts subsequently entered into, inafin,
it is a self-evident proposition, that every contract'that can
be formed, must either precede, or follow, any law by which
it may be affected.
.J have, throughout the preceding part of this opinion,
considered the municipal law of the countrl where the contract is made, as incorporated with the contract, whether ik
affects its validity, construction, or discharge. But Ithink
it quite immaterial to stickle for this position, if it be conreded to me. what can scarcely be denied. that this munic,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

265

pal Jaw constitutes the law of the contract so formed, and 1827.
must govern it throughout. I hold the legal consequences
to be the same, in which ever view the law, as it affects the Ogden
V.
Saunders.
contract, is considered.
I come now to a more particular examination and construction of the section under which this question arises;
and I am free to acknowledge, that the collocation of the
subjects for which it provides, has made an irresistible impression upon my mind, much stronger, I am persuaded,
than I can find language to communicate to the minds of
otheis.
It declares,othat "no State shall coin money, emit bills of
credit, make any thing but gold and silver coin a tender in
payment of debts." These prohibitions, associated with
the powers granted to Congress "to coin money, and to regulate the value thereof, and of foreign coin," most obvloasly constitute members of the same family, being upon
the same subject, and governed by the same policy.
This policy was, to provide a fixed and uniform standard
of value throughout the United States, by which the commercial and other dealings between the citizens thereof, or
between them and foreigners, as -well as the momed, transactions of the government, should be regulated. For it
might well be asked, why vest in Congress the power to establish a urform standard of value by the means pointed
out, if the gtates might uie thF same means, and thus defeat
the uniformity of the standard, and, cofisequently, the standard itself9 And why establish a standard at all, for the
government of the various contracts which might be entered
into, if those contracts might ifterwards be discharged by a
different standard, or by that which ig not money, under the
authority of State tender laws 9 It is obvious, therefore,
that these prohibitions, in the 10th section, are entirely homogeneous, and are essential to the establishment of a uniform standard of value, in the formation and discharge of
contracts. It is for this reason, independent of the general
phraseology which is employed, that the prohibition, in regard to State tender laws, will admit of no construction
which would confine it to State laws which have a retrd.
spective operation.
34
VoD. XIL

266

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

The next class of prohibitions contained in this section.
1827.
-v
'consists of bills of attainder, ex post facto laws, and laws imOgden pairing the obligation of contracts.
V
Saunders.
Here, too, we observe, as I think, members of the same
'family brought together in the most intimate connexion with
each other. The St(tes are forbiddei. to pass any bill of
attainder or ex pestfucto law. b) which a man shall be punished criminally or penally, by loss of life, ot his liberty,
property, or reputation, for an act which, at the time of its
commission, violated no existing law of the land. Why did
the authors of the constitution turn their attention to this
subject, which, at the first blush, would appear to be peculiarly fit to be left to the discretion of those who have the
police and good government of the State under their man'ageient and control 9 The only answer to-be given is, because laws of this character are oppressive, Vnjust, and
tyrannical, and, as such, are condemned by the universal
sentence of civilized man.
The injustice and tyranny
which characterizes ex post facto laws, consists altogether in
their retrospective operation, which applies with equal force..
although not exclusively, to bills of attainder.
But if it was deemed wise and proper to prohibit State
legislation as to retrospeetive laws, which concern, almost
exclusively, the citizens and inhabitants of the particular
State in which this legislation 'takes place, how much more
did it concern the private and political interests of the citizens of all the States, in their conmercial and ordinary intercourse with each other, that the same prohibition should
be extended civilly to the contracts which they might enter
into 9
If it were proper to prohibit a State legislature to pass a
retrospective law, which should take from the pocket of one
of its own citizens a single dollar, as a punishment for an
act wh;ch was innocent at the time it was committed, how
much more proper was it to prohibit laws of the same charaqter precisely, which might deprive the citizens of other
States, and foreigners, as well as citizens of the same State,
of thousands, to which; by their contracts, they were justly
entitled, and which they might possibly have realized but
for such State interference 9 How natural, then. was it, under

OF THE UNITED STXAMS.
1827.
the' influence of these considerations, to interdict similar
legislation in: regard'to contracts, by providing, that no State
should pass laws impairing the obligation of past contracts Y Ogden
It is true, that the two first of these prohibitions apply to Saunders.
laws of a criminal, and the last to laws of a civil character;
but if I am correct in my view of the spirit and motives of
these prohibitions, they agree in the princzple which suggested them. They are founded upon the same'reason, and
the application of it is at least as strong to the last, as it is to
the two first prohibitions.
But these reasons are altogether inapplicable to laws of a
prospective character. There is nothing unjust or tyrannical in punishing offences prohibited by law, and ommit'ted in violation of that law. Nor ,can it be unjust, or op.
pressive, to declare by law, that contracts subsequently entered into, may be discharged in a way different from that
which the parties have provided, but which they know, or
may know, are liable, under certain circumstances, to be discharged in a manner contrary to the provisions of their
contract.
Thinking, as I have always done, that the power to pass
bankrypt laws waq intended by the authors of the constitu.
tion to be exclusive in Congress, or, at least, that they expected the power vested in that body would be exercised,
so as effectually.to prevent its exercise by the States, it is
the more probable that, in rUference to all other interferences of the State legislatures upon the subject of contracts, retrospective laws were alone in the contemplation
of the Convention.
In the construction of this clause of the tenth section of
the constitution, one ofthe counsel for the defendant supposed
himself at liberty so to transpose the provisions contained in
it, as to place the prohibition to pass laws impairing the obligation of contracts in juxtaposition with the other prohibition to pass laws making any thing but gold and silver coin
a tender in payment of debts, inasmuch as the two provisions relate to the subject of contracts.
That the derangement of the words, and even. sentences
of a law, may sometimed be tolerated, in order to arrive at
theapparent meaning of the legislature, to be gathered from

268

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1827.

'~v

Ogden

other parts, or from the entire scope of the law, I shall not
But I should deem it a very hazardous rile to adopt
in the construction of an instrument so maturely cohti-dered

.'deny.

y.

Saunders.

as this constitution was by the enligntened statesmen who
framed it, and so severely examined and criticised by its
opponents in the numerous State conventions which finally
adopted it. And if, b; the construction of this sentence,
arranged as it is, or as the leavned counsel would have it to
be, it could have been made out that the power to pass prospective laws, affecting contracts, was denied to the States, it
is most wonderful that not Qne voice was raised against the
provision, in any of those conventions, by the jealous advocates of State rights, nor even an amendment proposed, to
explain the clause, and to exclude a construction which
trenches so extensiVely upon the sphere of State legislation.
But, ulthough the transposition which is contended for
may be tolerated in cases where the obvious intention of
the legislature can in -no other way be fulfilled, it can never
be admitted in those where consistent meaning can be given
to the whole clause as its authors-thought proper to arrange
it, and where the only doubt is, whether the construction
which the transposition countenances, or that which results
from the reading which the legislature has thought proper to
adopt, is most likely to fulfil" the supposed intention of the
legislature. Now, although it is true, that the prohibition
to pass tender laws of a particular description, and laws impairing the obligation of contracts, relate, both of them, to
contracts, yet, the principle which governs each of them,
clearly to be inferred from the subjects with which they
stand associated, is altogether different, that of the first
forming part of a system for fixiug a uniform standard of
value, and, of the last, being founded on a denunciation of
retrospective laws. It is, therefore, the safest course, in
my humble opinion, to construe this clause of the section
according to the arrangement which the Convention has
thought proper to make of its different provisions. To insist upon a transposition, with a view to warrant one construction rather than the other, falls little short, in my opinion, of a begging of the whole question in controversy.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

269

But why, it has been asked, forbid the States to pass laws
1827.
making any thing but gold and silver coin a tender in pay- %
ment of debts, contracted subsequent, as well as prior, to the Ogden
law which authorizes it, and) et conline the prohib-tion topass Saunders.
laws impairing the obligation of contracts to past contracts, or
in other words, to futuie omkrupt laws, when the consequence resulting from each is the same, the latter being considered by the counsel as being, in truth, nothing less than
tender laws in disguise.
Aa answer to this question has, in part, been anticipated
by .ome of the preceding observations. The power to pass
bankrupt laws having been vested ii Congress, either as an
exclusive power, or under the belief that it would certainly
be exercised, it is highly probable that State legislation,
upon that subject was not within the contemplation of the
convention ; or, if it was. it is quite unlikely that the exercise of the power by the State legislatures, would have been
prohibited by the use of terms which, I have endeavoured
to show, are inapplicable to laws itended to operate prospectively. For had the prohibition been to pass laws 2impairing contracts, instead of the obligation of contracts', I
admit, that it would have 'borne the constiuction wich is
contended for, since it is clear that the agreement of the parties in the first case, would be impaired as much by a prior
as it would be by a subsequent bankrupt law. It has, besides, been attempted to be shown, that the limited restriction upon State legislation, imposed b) the former prohibition, might be submitted to by the States, whilst the extensive ;peration of the latter would have hazarded, to.say the
least of it, the adoption of the constitution by the State conventions.
But an answer, still more satisfactory to my mind, is this
" _idrt:
Tender laws, of the description staed in thiz -falways unjust, and, where there is an existing bankrupt law
at the time the contract is made, they can seldom be useful
to the honest debtor. They violate the agreement of the
parties to it, without the semblance of an apology for fh
measure, since they operate to discharge the debtor from his
undertaking, upon terms variant from those by which he
bound hinmlelf, to tl nmurv of the creditor, and unsupport-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUP

270
1827.

ed, in *many cases, by, the plea of necessity.

~-~'relif

They exten-

to the opulent debtor, who does not stand a nned of

it "°as well as to the one who is, by misfortune , often unaSaunders. voidable, reduced to poverty, and disabled from complying
with his engagements. In relat ion to subscquent contracts,
they are unjust when extended to the former class of debtors, and useless to the second, since they ma) be relieved by
conforming to (he requisition of the State bankrupt law,
where there is one. Being discharged by this lay. from all
his antecedent debts, and having his future acquisitions secured to him, an -opportunity is afforded him to become once
more a useful member of society.
If this view of the subject be correct, it will be difficult
to proe, that a prospective bankrupt law resembles, in any
of its features. a law which should make any thing but gold
and silver coin a tender in payment of debts.
I shall now conclude this opinion, by repeating the acknowledgment which candour 0ompellid me to make in
its commencement, that the question which I have been examining is involved in difficulty and doubt. But if I could
rest my opinion in favour of the constitutionality of the law
on which the question arises, on,no other ground than this
doubt so felt and acknowledged, that alone would, in my estimation, be a satisfactory vindication of it. It is but a de.
cent respect due to the wisdom, the integrity; and the patriotism of the legislative body, by which any law is passed,
to presume in favour of its validity, until its viol'tion of
the constitution is proved beyond all reasonable doubt.
This has always been the language of this Court, when that
subject has called for its decision, and I know that it expresses the honest sentiments of each and every member of
this bench. I am perfectly satisfied that it is entertained by
those of them from whom it is the misfortune of the majority of the Court to differ on the present occasion, and that
they feel no reasbnable doubt of the correctness of the conclusion to which their best judgment has conducted them.
My opinion is, that the judgment of the Court below
ought to be reversed. and judement fivert for the plaintiff in
.rror.
Ogden
V.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

271

1827.
Mr. Justice JOHNSON. This suit was instituted in Lou,
isiana, in the Circuit Court of the United States, by Saun- ,,
V.
ders, the defendant here, against Ogden, upon certain bills Ogden
of exchange. Ogden, the defendant there. pleads, in barto Saunders.
the action, a discharge obtawied, in due Iorm of law, from
the Courts of the State of New York. which .discharge purports to release him from all debts aed demaudb existing
against Win on a specified day. This demand is one of
that description, and the act under which the discharge
was obtained, was the act of New-York.of 1801, a date
long prior to that of the cause of action on which this suit
was instituted. The discharge is set forth in the plea, and
represents Ogden as ' an insolvent debtor, belig, on the day
and year.thereto after mentioned,-in prison, in the city and
county of New-York, on execution issued against him on
some civil action," &c. It does not appear that any suit
had ever been instituted against him by this party, or on
this cause of action, prior to the present. The cause below was decided upon a special verdict, in which thejury find,
1st. That the acceptance of the bills on which the. action
was instituted, was made b. Ogden, in the city of NewYork, on the days they severally bear date, the said defendant then residing in the city of New York, and continuing
to reside there until a day not specified.
2d. That under the laws of the State of New-York. in
such case provided, and referred to in the discharge, (which
laws are specially iund, &c. meaning the State law of
1801,) application was made for, and the defendant obtain.
ed, the discharge hereunto annexed.
3d. That, by the laws of New-York, actions on bills oi
exchange, and acceptances thereof, are limited to the term
of six years, and,
4th. That at the time the said bills were drawn and ac..
cepted, the drawee and the drawer of the same, were resi.
dents and citizens of the State ot Kentucky.
On this state of facts the Court below gave judgmen!
against Ogden, the discharged debtor.
We are not in possession of the grounds of the decision be.
low, and it has been argued here, as having been given upon
the general nullity of the discharge, on the ground of its un
-,onstitutionalitv. But, it is obvious, that it might a0so h;v-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.
%
Ogden
V.

proceeded upon the ground of its nullity as to citizens of
other States, who have never, by any -act of their own, submitted themselves to the lexfort of the State that gives the

Saunders.

discharge-consdering the right given by the constitution
to go roto the Courts of the United States upon any contracts, whatever be their lex loci, as modifying and limitingthe general power which States.ire acknowledged to possess
over contracts formed under control of their peculiar laws.
This question, however, has not been argued, and must
not now be considered as disposed of by this decision.
The abstract question of the general power of the States
to pass laws for the relief of insolvent debtors, will be alone
considered. And here, in order to ascertain with precision
what we are to decide, it is first proper to consider what
this Court has already decided on this subject. And this
brings under review the two cases of Sturges v. Crowmnshield, and AI'.Millan v. ./fX.N'eal, adjudged in the year 1819,
and contained in the 4th vol. of the Reports. If the marginal note to the report, or summary of the effect of the
case of TII.Nillan v. X'.Neal, presented a correct -view of
the report of that decision, it is obvious, that there would
remain very little, if any thing, for this Court to decide.
But by comparing the note of the Reporter with the facts of
the case, it will be found that there is a generalit' of expression admitted into tle former, which the case itself
does not justify. The principle recognsed and affirmed in
.A'dMillan v. X1.jNeal, is one of nniversal law, and so obvious
and. ilcontestible that it need be only understood to be assented to. It is nothing more than thisi " that insolvent
laws have no extra-territorialoperation upon.the contractsof
other States ; that the principle is applicable as well to the dis,-azrges given under the laws of the States, as of foreign
countries ; and that the anterior or posteriorcharacterof the
law under which tMe discharge is given, with reference to t7e
date of the contract, makes no discrimination in the applicatZon of that prncple."
The report of the case of Sturges v. Cibwnmnshteld needs
also some explanation. The Court was, in that case, greatly
divided in their views -of the doctrine, and the judgment
-,c takes as much of a compromise, as of a legal adjudica

OF THE UNITED STATES.

W73

1827.
The minority thought it better to yield something
than risk the whole. And, although their course of reasoning led them to the general maintenance of the State power Ogden
over the subject, control;ed and limited alone by the oath ad- Saunders
ministered to all their public functionaries to maintain the
constitution of the United States, yet. as denying the power
to act upon anterior contracts, could do no harm, but, in fact,
imposed a restriction conceived in the true spirit of the
constitution, they were satisfied to acquiesce in it, provided
the decision were so guarded as to secure the power over
posterior contracts, as well from the positive terms of the adjudication, as from inferences deducible from the reasoning
of the Court.
The case of Sturges v. Crownmnshzeld, then, must, in its
authority, be limited to the terms of the certificate, and that
certificate affirms.two propositions.
1. That a State has authority to pass a bankrupt law, provided such law does not impair the obligation of contracts
within the meaning of the constitution, and provided there
be no act of Congress in force to establish an uniform system of bankruptcy, conflicting with such law.
2. That a law of this description, acting upon prior contracts, is a law impairing the obligation of contracts within
the meaning of the constitution.
Whatever inferences or whatever doctrines the opinion
of the Court in that case may seem to support, the concluding words of that opinion were intended to control and to
confine the-authority of the adjudication to the limits of the
certificate.
I should, therefore, nave supposed, that the question of
exclusive power in Congress to pass a bankrupt law was not
now open, but it has been often glanced at in argument, and
I have no objection to express my individual opinion upon
it. Not having recorded my views on this point in the case
of Crowznnshleld, I avail myself of this occasion to do so.
So-far, then, am I from admitting that the constitution affords any ground for this doctrine, that I never had a doubt,
that the leading object of the constitution was to bring in
aid of the States a power over this subject, which their individual powers never could attain to: so far from limiting. mo

uion.

Tor

.

I-14

CASftS iN THE

UPREM

CuURtT

1827.

dilying, and attenuating legislative power in its known and

Saunders.

breed powers of tle States, re1'rc3eteO I) the general governunelt. co-1id extend It. IN,thout it yrovision, iio power would have existed that could extent ai discharge bejond
the liri:ts of the State in which ii wan given. but with that

Sordinary exercise in favour of unfortunate debtors, that its
Ogden
sole object wab to extend and perfect it. as fur as the cornV.

provision it night be tiade co-extenitve with the biiited
s1tates.
Tlhiu was conducig to one of tile treat end, of the

constitution. one which it never loses s:;ht ut in at)y of its
provisions, that of making an American citizen as free in one
State as he was in another. And when we are told that this
instrument is to be construed with a view to its federative
objects, I reply that this view alone of the subject is in ac
cordance with its federative character.
Another object in perfect accordance with this, may have
been that of exercising a - alutarj control over the power of'
the States, whenever that power should be exercised without
due regard to the fair exercise of distributive justice. The
general tendency of the legislation of the States at that time
to favour the debtor, was a consideration which entered
deeply into many of the provisions of the constitution. And
as the power of the States over the laY of their respective
forums remained untouched by an. other provision of the
constitution, when vesting in Congress the power to pass a
bankrupt law, it was worthy of the wisdom of the Convention to add to it the power to make that s) stem uniform and
universal. Yet, on this subject, the use of the term uniform,
instead of general, may well raise a doubt whether it meant
more than that such a law should not bepartial.buthave a,
equal and uniform application in every part of the Union.
This is in perfect accordance with the spirit in which various
other provisions of the constitution are conceived.
For these two objects there appears to have been much
reason for vesting this power in Congress, but for extending
to the grant the effect of exclusmveness over the power of
the States, appears to me not only without reason, but to be
repelled by weighty considerations.
1. There is nothing which, on the face of the constitution,
bears the semblance of direct prohibition on the States to

OF THE UNITED STATES.
r:xercise this power, and it would seem strange that, if such
8
a prohibition had been in the contemplation of the Convention, when appropriating an entire section to the eimume- ' Ogden
V.
ration of prohibitions on the States, they had forgotten this, Saunders.
if they had intended to enact it.
The antithetical language adopted in that section. as to
every other subiect to which the power of Congress had
been previously extended, affords a strong reason to conclude, that some direct and express allusion to the power to
pass a bankrupt law would have been here inserted also, if
they had not intended that this power should be concurrently, or, at least, subordinately exercised by the States. It
cannot be correct reasoning, to rely upon this fact as a ground
to infer that the prohibition must be found in some provision
not having that antithetical character, since this supposes an
intention to insert the prohibition, which intention can only
be assumed. Its omission is a just reason for orning no
other conclusion than that it was purposely omitted. But,
2. It is insisted, that, though not express, the prohibition is to be inferred from the grant to Coi igress to establish
uniform laws on the subject of bankruptcies throughout the
United States; and that this grant, standing in connexion
with that to establish an uniform rule of naturalization,
which is, in its nature, exclusive, must receive a similar
construction.
There are many answers to be given to this argument,
and the first is, that a mere grant of a State power does not,
in itself, necessarily imply an abandonment or relinquishment of the power granted, or we should be involved in
the absurdity of denying to the States the power of taxation, and sundry other powers ceded to the general govern
ment. But much less can such a consequence follow from
vesting in the general government a power' zhwh no Statt
possessed, and which, all of them combined, could not exercise to meet the end proposed in the constitution. Foi
if every State in the Union were to.pass a bankrupt law in
the same unvarying words, although this would, undoubtedly, be an uniform system of bankruptcy in its literal sense,
it would be very far from answering the grant to Congress
There would still need -some act of Congress, or some treaty

CASES IN THE SUPREME -uiit
under sanction of an act of Congress, to give discharges in
one State a full operation in the other. Thus. thcn, the iiference which we are called upon to m:ke will be found
V.
Saunders. not to rest upon any actual cession of Sl;,1,! power, but upon
the creation of a new power which no State ever pretended
to possess, a power which, so far from necessarily diminishing, or impairing the State power over the subject, might
find its full exercise in simply recogiising as valid, in every
State, all discharges wich shall be honestly obtained under
the existing laws of any State.
Again, the inference proposed to be deduced from tlin
grant to Congress, will be found much broader than the
principle in which the deduction is claimed. For, In this.
as in many other instances m. the constitution, the grant im1827.
-Ogden

plies only the rzght to assume and exerczse a power over f/h

subject. Why, then, should the State powers cease beforc
eongress shall have acted upon the subject 9 or why should
that be converted into a present and absolute relinquishmentof power, which is, in its nature, merely potential, and
dependent on the discretion of Congress whether, and
wher, to enter on the exercise of a power that may super.
sede it 9
Let any one turn his eye back to the time when this grat
was made, and say if the situation of the people admitted of
an abandonment of a power so familiar to the jurisprudence
of every State, so universally sustained in its reasonable
exercise, by the opinion and practice of mankind, and so vitally important to a people overwhelmed in debt, and urged
to enterprise by the activity of mind that is generated brevolutions and free governments.
I will with confidence affirm, that the constitution had
never been adopted, had it then been imagined that this
_question would ever have been made, or that the exercise
of this power in the States should ever have depended
upon the views of the tribunals to which that constitution
was about to giv'e existence. The argument proposed to
be drawn from- a comparison of Ihis power with that of
Congress over naturalization, is not a fair one, for the cases
are not parallel, and if they were, it is by no means settled
,bnt the States would have been precluded from this power

OF THE UNITED STATEb.

277

if Congress had not assumed it. But. admitting. argumentz 1827
gratia,that they would, still there are considerations bear- ,
to the Ogden
ing upon the one power, which have no application
other. Our foreign intercourse being exclusively commit- Saunders.
ted to the general i oternment, it is peculiarly their province to determine who are entitled to the privileges of
-American citizens, and the protection of the American government. And the citizens of any one State being entitled by the constitutioi to enjoy the rights of citizenship in
every other State, that fact creates an interest in this particular in each other s acts, which does not exist with regard
to their bankrupt laws, since State acts of naturalization
would thus be extra-teiritorzalin their operation, and have'
an influence on the most vital interests of other States.
On these grounds, State laws of naturalization may be
brought under one of the four heads or classes of powers
precluded to the States, to wit . that of incompatibility, and
on this ground alone, if any, could the States be debarred
from exercising this power, had Congress not proceeded to
assumeit. There is, therefore. nothing in that argument.
The argument deduced from the commercial character of
bankrupt laws is still more unfortunate. It is but necessary
to follow it out, and the inference, if any, deducible from it.
will -be found to be direct and conclusive in favour of the
State rights over this subject. For if, in consideration of
the power vested in Congress over foreign commerce, and
the commerce between the States, it was proper to vest a
power over bankruptcies that should pervade the States, it
would seem, that by leaving the regulation of internal commerce in the power of the States, it became equally proper
to leave the exercise of this power within their own limits
unimpaired.
I With regard to the universal understanding of the American people on this subject, there cannot b6 two opinions. If
ever contemporaneous exposition, and the clear understqnding of the contracting parties. or of the legislating power.
(it is no matter in which light it be considered,) could be resorted to as the means of expounding an instrument, the continuing and unimpaired existence of this power in the States
light never to have been controverted. Nor was it con-

278

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

troverted until the repeal of the bankrupt act of 1800, or
Suntil a state of things arose in which the means of compelling a resort to the exercise of this power by the United
Ogden
V..
1827.

Saunders. States became a subject of much interest. Previously to
that period, the States remained in [he peaceable exercise
of this power, under circumstances entitled to great coxisideration. In every State in the Union was the adoption of
the constitution resisted by men of the keei.st and most
comprehensive minds; and if an argument, such as this, so
calculated to fasten on the minds of a people, jealous of State
rights, and deeply involved in debt, could have been imagined, it never would have escaped them. Yet no where
does it appear to have been thought of, and, after adopting
the constitution, in every part of the Union, we find the very
framers of it every where among the leading men in public
life, and legislating or adjudicating under the most solemn
oath to maintain the constitution of' the United States, yet
no where imagining that, iii the exercise of this power, they
violated their oaths, or transcended their rights. Every
where, too, the principle was practically acquiesced in, that
taking away the power to pass a laow on a partcular subject
was equwalent to a repeal of existing laws on that subject.
Yet in-no instance was it contended that the bankrupt laws
of the States were repealed. while those on navigation, commerce, the admiraltyjurisdiction, and various others,. were at
once abandoned without the formality ofa repeal. With regard
to their bankrupt or insolvent laws , they went on carrying
them into effect and abrogating, and re-enacting theni, without a doubt of their full and unimpaired power over the
subject. Finally, when the bankrupt law of 1800 was enacted, the lonly power that seemed interested in aenying the
right to the States, formally pronounced a full and -absolute
recognitiou of that right. It is impossible for langdage to
be more full and explicit on the subject, than is the sixth section of this act of Congress. It acknowledges both the validity of existing laws, and the right of passing future laws.
The practical construction given by that act to the constitution is precisely this, that it amounts oinly to a right to assume the power to legislate on the subject, and, therefore, abrogates or suspends the existing laws, only sofar as they mav

UP THE V7NJTED

'i1AT

.

279

1827.
Cash with the provmssons of the act ,fCongess. This construction was universally acquiesced in, for it was that on
which there had previously prevailed but one opinion from Ogden
V.
Saunders.
'the.date of the constitution.
Much alarm has been ex,'ressed rezpeeting the inharmo"niousoperatiou of so many -ystenin all operating at the
same time. But I ndst say that I cannot disrover any real
groundfor tliese apprehensious. Nothing but a future openoihing iseasier than to
ration is here contended for, atni
avoid those rocks and quwrksandr which are visible to all.
Most of the daugers are imaginary, for the interests of each
community, its respect for the opinion of mankind, and a
remnant of moral feeli! j which will not cease to operate in
he worst of times, will always present important barriers
against the gross violation of principle. How is the general
government itself made up, but of the same materials which
separately make up the governments of the States
It is a very important fact, and calculated to dissipate the
fears of those who serrou-ly apprehend danger from this
quarter, that the powers assumed and exercised by the
States over this subject. did riot compose any part of the
grounds of complaint by Great Britain, when negotiating
with our government on the subject of violations of the
treaty of peace. Nor is it immaterial as an historical fact,
to show the evils against which th. constitution really intended to provide a remedy Indeed, it is a solecism to suppose, that the permanent laws of anfy government, particularly those which relate to the administration of justice between individuals, can be radically unequal or even unwise.
It is scarcely ever so in despotic governments, much less in
those in which the good of the whole is the predominating
principle. The danger to be apprehended, is from temporary provisions and desultory legislation, and this seldom
has a view to -future contracts.
At all events, whatever be the degree of evil to be produced by such laws, the limits of its action are necessarily
confined to the territory of those who inflict it. The ultimate object in denying to the States this power, would seem
to be, to give the evil a wider range, if it be one, by extending the benefit of .discharges -over the whole of the Tunio

uASES IN THE SUPREME COUWI
But it is impossible-to suppose, that the framers of th, con1827.
, stitution could have regarded the exercis4 of this power as
.--Ogden
V.

an evil in the abstract, else they would hardly have engraft-

Saunders. ed it upon that instrument which was to become the great
safeguard of public justice and public morals.
And had they been so jealous of the exercise of this
power in the States, it is not credible that they would have
left unimpaired those unquestionable powers over the administration of justice which the States do exercise, and
which, in their immoral exercise, might leave to the-creditor
the mere shadow of justice. The debtor's person, no one
doubts, may be exempted from execution. But, there is
high precedent for exempting his lands, and public feeling
would fully sustain an exemption of his slaves. What is to
prevent the extension of exemption, until nothing is left but
the mere mockery of a judgment, without the means of enforcing its satisfaction ?
But it is not only in their execution laws, that the creditor has been left to the justice and honour of the States
Ever) judiciary in the Union owes its exfor his security
istence to some legis lative act, what is to prevent a repeal
of that act ? and then, what becomes of his remedy. if he
has not access to the Courts of the Union ? Or what is to
prevent the extension of the right to imparl 9 of the time
to plead q of the interval between the sittings of the State
9
Ciurts ? Where is the remedy against all this and why
were not these powers taken also from the States, if they
.could not be trusted with the subordinate and incidental
9
The truth is, the Convention
power here denied them
saw all this -and saw the impossibility of providing an adequate remedy for such mischifs, if it was not to be found
ultimately in the wisdom and virtue of the State rulers, under the salutary control of that republican form of government which it guarantees to e%ery State. For theforeigner
and the czhzens of other States, it provides the safeguard of
a tribunal which cannot be controlled by State laws in the
application of the remedy ; and for the protection of all,
was interposed that oath which it requires to be admmistered to all the public functionaries, as well of the States as

th United States.

It may be called the ruling principle of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

:281

the constitution, to interfere as little as possible between the 1827.
citizen and his own State government; and hence, with a
V.
few safeguards of a very general nature, the executive, le- Ogden
gislative and judicial functions of the States are left as they Saunaer.
were, as to their own citizens, and as to all internal concerns. It is not pretended that this discharge could operate
upon the rights of the citizen of any other State, unless his
contract was entered into in the State that gave it, or unless
he bad voluntarily submitted himself to the lexfors of the
State before the discharge, in both which instances he is
subjected to its effects by his own voluntary act.
For these considerations, I pronounce the exclusive power of Congresds over the relief of insolvents untenable, and
the dangers apprehended from the contrary doctrine 'unreal.
We will next inquire whether the States' are precluded
from the exercise of this power by that clause in the constitution, wich declares that no State shall "fpass any bill of
attainder, ex post facto law, or law impairing the obligation
otcontracts."
This law of the State of New-York is supposed to have
violated the obligation of a contract, by releasing Ogden from
a &bt which he had not satisfied ; and the decision turns
upun the question, first, in wbat-consists the obligation of a
contract? and, secondly, whether the act of New-York will
amount to a violation of that obligation, in the sense of the
constitution.
The first of these questions has .been so -often examined
and corndered in this and other Courts of the United States,
a i crittle progress has yet been made in fixing the precise
Mfeaing of the words "obligation of a contract," that I
should turn in despair from the inquiry, were I not convinced that the difficulties the question presents are mostly
factitious, and the result of refinement and. technicality; or
bf attempts at definition made in terms dcfective'.kfjo in
orecision. and comprehensiveness. Right or wrong, I come
to my conclusion on their meaning, as applied to executory
contracts, the subject now before us, by a simple and shorthanded expositidn.
Right-and poligativmare considered by all ethical wrifers
VoL. XI.
6

CASEb IN TIIE SUPREME COURT

7

us correlative terms

Whatever I by my contract give ano-

ther a right to require of me, I by that act lay myself under
v
Ogdea
an obligation to yield or bestow. The obligation of every
;.,tunders. contract will then consist of that right or power over my
will or actions, which I, by my contract, confer on another.
And that right and power will be found to be measured neither by moral law alone, nor universal law alone, nor by the
law, of society alone, butby a combination of the three--an
operation in which the moral law is explained and applied
ily the law of nature, and both modified and adapted to the
exigencies of society by positive law. The constitutio was
framed for society, and an advanced state of society, in which
] will undertake to say that all the contracts of men receive
a relative, and not a positive interpretation, for the rights
of all must be held and enjoyed in subserviency to the good
of the whole. The State construes them, the State applies
,hem, the State controls them, and the State decides how far
the social exercise of the rights they give us over each other
can be justly asserted. I say the social exercise of these
rights, because in a state of nature, they are asserted over
a fellow creature, but in a state of society, over a fellow citizen. Yet, it i, worthy of observation, how closely the analogy is preserved between the assertion of these rights in a
Atate of nature and a state of society, in their application to
Eie class of contracts under consideration.
Two men, A. and B., having no previous connexion with
each other, (we may suppose them even of hostile nations,)
are thrown upon a desert island. The first, having had the
good fortune to procure food, bestows a part of it upon the
other, and he contracts to return an equivalent i
.
IL
i- obvious here, that B. subjects himself to something morc
than the moral obligation of his contract, and that the law
of nature, and the sense of mankind, would justify A. in resorting to any means in him power to compel a compliance
with this contract. But if it should appear that B., by sickness, by accident, or circumstances beyond human control,
however superinduced, could not possibly comply with his
contract, the decision would be otherwise, and the exercise
of compulsory power over B. would be followed with the
iidiguation of mankind. He has carried the power con-

OV THY UNITED STATCS.

2a3

1827.
ferred on him over the will or actions of another beyond
their legitimate extent, and done injustice in his turn. , Ogden
V.
gjurea."
"Summumjus est summa
The progress of parties, from the initiation to the con- Satinder -.
summation of their rights, is exactly parallel to this in a
state of society. With this difference, that in the concoction of their contracts, they are controlled by the laws of
the society of which they are members, and for the construction and enforcement of their contracts, they rest upon
the functionaries of its governmet. They can enter into no
contract which the laws of that community forbid, and the
validity and effect of their contracts is what the existing
laws give to them. The remedy is no longer retained in
their own hands, but surrendered to the community, to a
power competent to do justice, and bound to discharge towards them the acknowledged duties of government to society, according to received principles of equal justice.
The public duty, in this respect, is the substitute for that
right which they possessed in a state of nature, to enforce
the fulfilment of contracts; and if, even in a state of nature, limits were prescribed by the reason and nature of
things, to the exercise of individual power in enacting the
fulfilment of zontracts, much more will they be in a state
of society. For it is among the duties of society to enforce
the rights of humanity; and both the debtor and the society have their interests in the administration of justice.
and in the general good, interests which must not'be swallowed up and lost sight of while yielding attention to the
claim of the creditor. The debtor may plead the visitations of Providence, and the society has an interest in preserving every member of the community from despondency -m relieving him from a hopeless state of prostration, in
which he would be useless to himself, his family, and the
community. When that state of things has arrived in which
the community has fairly and fully discharged its duties to
the creditor, and in which, pursuing the debtor any longq
would destroy the one, without benefitting the other, must
always be a questi6n to be determined by the common
guardian of the rights of both ; and in this originates the
power exercised by governments in fnvonr of insolveriN.

CASES IN THE SUPREIMtE COURI
1827.
_g- -%'
Ogdeu
V.

Itgrows out of the admimstration of justice, and is a necessary appendage to it.
There was a time whela i different idea prevailed, and

Saunders. then it was supposed that the rights of the creditor required
the sale of the debtor, and his familyi. A similar notion
now prevails on the coast of Africa, and is often exercised
there by brute force. Itis worthy only of the country
in which it now exists, and of that state of society in which
it once originated and prevailed.
CC
Lex non cogit ad imposibilia," is a maxim applied by
law to the contracts of parties in a hundred ways. And
where is ethe objection, in a moral or political vrew, to applying it to the exercise of the power to relieve insolvents "
It is in analogy with this maxim, that the power to relieve
them is exercised ; a'nd if it never was imagined, that, in
other cases, this maxim violated the obligation ofv6ntracts,
I see no reason why the fair, ordinary, and reasonable exercise of it in this instance, should be subjected to that uupatation.
If it be objected to these views of the subject, that they
are as applicable to contracts prior to the law, as to those
posterior to it, and, therefore, inconsistent with the'decisi6i
in the case of Sturges v Crowninshteld,my reply is, that I
think this no objection to its correctness. I entertained this
opinion then, and have seen no reason to doubt it since.
But if applicable to the case of prior debts, multo fortiorn,
will it be so to those contracted subsequent to such a law;
the posterior date of the contract removes all doubt of its
being in the fair and unexceptionable administration ofjustice that the discharge is awarded.
I must not be understood here, as reasoning upon the assumption that the remedy is grafted into the contract. I
hold the doctrine untenable, and infinitely more restrictive
on State power than the doctrine contended for by the opposite party. Since, if the remedy enters into the contract,
then the States lose all power to alter their la6ws for the administration of justice. Yet, I freely admit, that the remedy enters into the views of the parties when contracting:
that the constitution pledges the States to every creditor for
the full, and fair. and'caidid exercise of State power to the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

285

ends bf justice, according to its ordinary administration, un- 1827.
nfiuenced by views to lighten, or lessen, or defer the obligation to which each contract fairly and legally subjects the 'Ogden
individual who enters into it. Whenever an individual en- Saunders.
ters into a contract, I think his assent is to be inferred, to
abide by those rules in the administration of justice which
-belong to the jurisprudence of the country of the contract.
And when compelled to pursue his debtor in other States,
he is equally bound to acquiesce in the law of the forum to
which he subjects himself. The law of the contract re.mains the same every where, and it will be the same in
everytribunal; but the remedy necessarily varies, and with
it the effect of the constitutional pledge, which can only
have relation to the laws of distributive justice known to
the policy of each State severally. It is very true, that inc6veniences inay occasionally grow out of irregularities in
'the administration of justice by the States. But the citizen
of the same State is referred to his influence over his o*n
-institutions for his secrity, and the citizens of the other
States have the institutions and powers of the general government to resort to. And this is all the security the constitition ever intended to hold out against the undue exer• ise of the power of the States over their own contracts.
and their own jurisprudence.
But, since a knowledge of the laws, policy, and jurisprudence of a State, is necessarily imputed to every one entering into contracts within its jurisdiction, of what surprise
can he complain, or what violation of public faith, who still
einters into contracts under that knowledge 9 It is no reply
to urge; that, at the same time knowing of the constitution,
he had a right -to suppose the discharge void -and inopera'tive, since this would be but speculating on a legal opinion,
in which, if he proves qristaken, he has still nothing to com-

plain of but his own temerity, and concerning which, all
that come after this decision, at least, cannot complain of
being misled by their ignorance or misapprehensions. Their

knowledge of the existing laws of the State will henceforward be unqualified, and was so, in the view of the law1 before this decision was made.
It is now about twelve or fourteen years ;mce I wnq calletr

CASES IN THE. SUPREME COURT

286
1827.
'..,,v-'

Ogden
V.

upon, on my circuit, in the case of Gell, Canonge 4, Co. v.
L. Jacobs, to review all this doctrine. The cause was ably
argued by gentlemen whose talents are well known in this

Saunders. capitol, and the opinions which I then formed, I have seen
no reason since to distrust.
It appears to me, that a great, part of the difficulties of
the cause, arise from not giving sufficient weight to the general intent of flus clause in the constitution, and subjecting it to a severe literal construction, which would be better
adapted to special pleadings.
By classing bills of attainder, ex postfacto laws, and laws
impairing the obligation of contracts together, the general
intent becomes very apparent; it is a general provision
against arbitrary and tyrannical legislation over existing
rights, whether of person or property. It is true, that some
confusion has arisen from an opinion, which seews early,
and without due examination, to have found it6s way into
this Court, that the phrase -" ex postfactol" was confined
to laws affecting criminal acts alone. The fact, upon examination, will be found otherwise.; for neither in its signifiIt applies to civil
cation or uses is it thus restricted.
68. 70. 73.4and
Touch.
(1,
Shep.
acts,
criminal
as
to
as well
that phrase, the
to
attached
with this enlarged signification
shallpass
the
States
"that
be,
would
clause
the
purport of
effects or
other
ndividuals
of
acts
to
the
no law, attaching
existing
laws
'y
the
them
to
consequences than those-attached
be enshall
at thezr date; and all contracts thus construed,
pirrport"
forced according to theirjust and reasonabl&
But to assign to contracts, universally, a literal purport,
and to exact for them a rigid literal fulfilment, could not
have been the intent of the constitution. It is repelled by
a hundred examples. Societies exercise a positive control
as well over the inception, construction, and fulfilment of
contracts, as over thp form and measurv" of the remedy to
enforce them.
As instances of the first, take the contract imputed to the
drawer of a bill, or endorser of a note, with its modifications, the deviations of the law from the literal contract of
the parties to a penal bond, a mortgage, a policy of insurance, bottomry bond, and varimus others that might be

OF THE UNITED STATES.

287

enumerated. And for instances of discretion exercised in 1827.
ajplying the remedy, take the time for which executors are
Ogden
exempted from suit, the exemption of members of legislatures; of judges, of persons attending Courts, or going to Saunderm.
elections; the preferences given in the marshalling of assets, sales on credit for a present debt, shutting of Courts
altogether against gaming debts and usurious contracts, and
above all, acts of limitation. I hold it impossible to maintain the constitutionality of an act of limitation, if the modification of the remedy against debtors, implied in the discharge of insolvents, is unconstitutional. I have seen no
distinction between the cases that can bear examination.
It is in vain to say that acts of limitation appertain to the
remedy only: both descriptions of laws appertain to the remedy, and exactly in the same way ; they put a period to
the remedy, and upon the same terms, by what has been
called, a tender of papermoney m the form of a plea, and to
the advantage of the insolvent laws, since if the debtor can
pay, he has been made to pay. But the door of justice is
shut in the face of the creditor in the other instance, without an iq-uiry on the subject of the debtor's capacity to
pay. And it is equally vain to say, that the act of limitation raises a presumption of payment, since it cannot be taken advantage of on the general issue, without provision
by statute , and the only legal form of a plea implies an acknowledgment that the debt has not been paid.
Yet so universal is the assent of mankind in favour of limitation acts, that it is the opinion of profound politicians,
that no nation could subsist without one.
The right, then, of the creditor, to the aid of the public
arm for the recovery of contracts, is not absolute and unlimited, but may be modified by the necessities or policy of
societies. And this, together with the contract itself, must
be taken by the individual, subject to such restrictions and
conditions as are imposed by the laws of the country. The
right to pass bankrupt laws is asserted by every civilized
nation in the world. And in no writer, I will venture to say,
has it ever been suggested, that the-power of annulling such
contracts, universally exercised under their bankrupt or insolvent systems, involves a violation of the obligation of con.

2n
Ogden

t,ASES IN THE SUPREME COURI
tracts. In international law, the subject is perfectly understood, and the right generally acquiesced in, and yet the
denial of justice is, by the same code, an acknowledged

Saunders. cause of war.
But, it is contended, that if the obligation of a contract
has relation at all to the laws which give or modify the
remedy, then the obligation of a contract is ambulatory, and
uncertain, and will mean a different thing in every State in
whch it may be necessary to enforce the contract.
There is no question that this effect follows, and yet
after this concession, it will still remain to be shown how,.
any violation of the obligation of the contract can arise from
that cause. It is a casualty well known to the creditor when
he enters roto the contract, and if obliged to prosecute his
rights in another State, what more can he claim of that
State, than that its Courts shall be open to him on the same
terms on which they are open to other individuals 9 It is
only by voluntarily subjecting himself to the lex fort of a
State, that he can be brought within the provisions of its
statutes in favour of debtors, since, in no other instance,
does any State pretend to a right to discharge the contracts
entered into in another State. He who enters into a pecuniary contract, knowing that he may have to pursue his
debtor, if he flees from justice, casts himself, in fact, upon
the justice of nations.
It has also been urged, with an earnestness that could
only proceed from deep conviction, .that insolvent laws
were tender laws of.the worst description, and that it is
impossible to maintain the constitutionality of insolvent laws
that have a future operation, without asserting the right of
the States to pass tender laws, provided such laws are confined to a future operation.
Yet to all this there appears to be a simple and conclusive
answer. The prohibition in the constitution to make any
thing but gold or silver coin a tender in payment of debts is
express and universal. The framers of the constitution regarded it is an evil to be repelled without modification:
they have, therefore, left nothing to *be inferred or deduced
from construction on ihis subject. But the contrary is the
1*4e with regard to insolvent laws 1,it contains no express

OF THE UNITED STATES.

.289

prohibition to pass such laws,.aud we are called upon here
1827.
to deduce -such a.prohibition from a clause, wfiich is any
V.
thing but explicit, and which •already has been judicially de- Ogden
clared to embrace a great variety of other subjects. The Saunders.
inquiry, then, is open and indispensable in relation to insolvent laws, prospective or retrospective, whether they do, in
'the sens4 of the constitution, violate the obligatiori of contracts 9 There would be much in the argument, if there was
no express prohibition againt passing tender laws, but with

such eCpress prohibition, the cases have no analogy. And,
independent of the different provisions in the constitution,
there is a distinction existingbetween tender laws.and insolvent laws in their object and policy, which sufficienfly points
out the principle upon which the constitution acts upon
them ass.everal and distinct; a tender law suppbses a capacity in the debtor to pay and satisfy the debt in some way,
but the discharge of an insolvent is founded in his incapacity.ever to pay, which incapacity is ju4icially determined a:ccording to the laws of. the State that passes it. The one
imports a positive violation of the contiact, since all cdntracti to pay, not expressed otherwise, bave relation' to payment in the'current coin of the conatry; -the other imports
an impossibility that the creditor evertan fulfil the contract.
If it he urged, that to assume this impossibility is itself an
arbitrary act, that parties have in view something more thaif
present'possessions, that tbey look to future acquisitions,
that industry talents and integrity are as confidently trusted
as property itself ;.,and, to release them from this liability,
impairs the obligation of contracts; plausible as the argu.
ment may seem, I think the answer is obvious an&incontrovertible.
Why may not the community.set bounds to the will of the
-contracting parties in this as in every other instance 9 That
'willis controlled inthe instances of gaming debts, usurious
contracts, marriage, brokage bonds, and. various others, and
why may not the community also dbclare that, "look to what
you wilI, no contract formed within the territory which we
govern shall be valid as against future acquisitions ;"i "we
iavan interest in the happiness, and services, and families
df this zimunity, which shall not be superseded by mdi
1.7
VOL. XI1

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

290
1827.
Ogden
V.

,vidugl views 9' Who can doubt the power of the State to
prohibit her citizens from running iq debt altogether 9 A
measure a thousand times wiser than that impulse to specu-

Saunders. lation and ruin, wfiich has hitherto been communicated to
individuals by our public policy. And if to be prohibited
altogether, where is the limit which may not be set both to
.the acts and the views of the contracting parties 9
When considering the first question in this cause, I took
occasion to remark on the evidence of contemporaneous exposition: deducible from well known facts. Every candid
mind will admit that this is a very different thing from
contending that the frequent repetition of wrong will create a right. It proceeds upon the presumption, that the
cotemporaries of the constitution have claims to our deference on the question of right, because ,they had the best
opportunities of informing themselves of the understandiog
of the framers of the constitution, and of the sense put upon
it by the people when it was adopted by them, and in this
point of view it is obvious that the consideration bears as
strongly upon the second point in the cause as on the first.
For, had there been any possible ground to think otherwise,
who could suppose that such men, and so many of them,
acting under the most solemn oath, and generally acting rather under a feeling ofjealousy of the power of the general
government than otherwise, would universally have acted
upon the conviction, that the power to relieve insolvents by
a dischaige from the debt had not been taken from the
States by the article prohibiting the violation of contracts 9
The whole history of the times, up to a -time subsequent to
the repeal of the bankrupt law, indicates a settled knowledge of the contrary.
If it be objected to the views wl~ch I have taken of this
subject, that they imply a departure from thedirect and literal
meaning of terms, in order ti; substitute an artificial or complicate.d exposition ; my reply is, that he error is on the other
side, gut hwret tn litera, hmret incortice. All the notions of
society, particularly in their jurisprudence, are more or less
artificial; our constitution no where peaks the language of
men in a tate of nature; let any one attempt a-literal exposition ofthe phrase which immediately precedpq the one un-

OF THE UNITED STATES.
der consideration, I mean "en post facto," and he will soon
1827.
acknowledge a failure. Or let him reflect on the mysteries
that hang around the little slip of paper which lawyers know Ogden
Y.
by the title of a bail-piece. The truth is, that even compa- Saunders.
red with the principles of natural law, scarcely any contract
imposes an obligation conformable to the literal meaning of
terms. He who enters into a contract to follow the plough
for the year, is not held to its literal performance, since many casualties may intervene which would release him from
the obligation without actual performance. There is a very
striking illustration of this principle to be found in many instances in the books, I mean those cases in which parties are
released from their contracts by a declaration of war, or
where laws are passed rendering that unlawful, even incidentally, which was lawful at the time of the contract. Now,
in both these instances, it is the government that puts an end
to the contract, and yet no one ever imagined that it thereby
violates the obligation of a contract.
It is, therefore, far from being true, as a general proposition, "that a government necessarily violates the obligation of a contract, which it puts an end to without performance." It is the motive, the policy, the object, that must characterize the legislative.act, to affect it with the imputation
of violating the obligation of contracts.
In the effort to get rid of the universal vote of mankind in
favour of limitation acts, and laws against gaming, usury,
marriage, brokage, buying and selling of offices, and many
of the same description, we have heard it argued,-that, as to
limitation acts, the creditor has nothing to complain of, because time is allowed him, of which, if he does not avail
himself,.it is his own neglect; and as to I!others, there is
no contract violated, because there war none ever incurred.
But it is obvious ihat this mode of answering the' argument
involves a surrender to us of our whole ground.. It admits
the right of the government to limit and define the power of
cIontracting, and the extent of the creditors remedy against
his debtor; to regard other rights besides his, and to modify
his rights o as not to let them override entirely the general
interests of society, the interests of the community itself in
the talents and services-of the debtor, the regard due to his

°29
I827.
Ogden
V.

CASES IN THE SUPREME CuURT

happiness, and to the claims of his family upon him and upon
the government.
No one questions the duty of the government to protect

Saunders. and enforce the just rights of every individual over all within
its control. What we contend for is no more than this,
that it is equally the dutyand right ofgovernments to impose
limits to the avarice and tyranny of indiiduals, so as not to
suffer oppression to be exerdised under the semblance of
right and justice. It is true, that in the exercise of this power, governments themselves may sometimes lbe the authors of
oppression and injustice, but, wherever the constitution
could impose limits to such power, it has done so, and if it
has not been able to impose effectual and universal restraints,
it arises only from the extrem6 difficulty of regulating the
movements of sovereign power; and the absolute necessity,
after every effort that can be made to goyvern effectually, thit
will, still exist tn leave some space for the exercise of discretion, and the influence of justice and wisdom.
Mr. Justice Tuompsom This action is founded on several bills of exchange, bearing date in September, 1806,
drawn by J. Jordan, upon Ogden, the plaintiff in error, in
favour of Saunders, the defendant in error. The drawer
and payee, at the date of the bills, were citizens of, and resident in, Kentucky. Ogden was a citizen of, and resident
in, New-York, where the bills were presented, and accepted by him, but were not paid when they came to maturity,
and are sill unpaid. Ogden sets up, in bar of this action.,
his discharge under the insolient law of the State of NewYork, passed in April, 1801, as one of the revised laws of
that Stdte. His discharge was duly obtained on the 19th of
April- 1g08, he having assigned all his property for th, be
nefit of his creditors, and having, m all respects, complied
with the laws of New-York for giving relief in cases of inThese proceedings, according to those lawq dissolvency
charged the insolvent from all debts due at the time of the
assignment, or contracted for bcfore that time, though payable afterwards, except in some specified cases, wnch do
not affectthe present question. From this brief -tatement
it appears, that Ogden, being sued upon his acceptances of

OF THE, UNITEDFSTATES.

9

the bills in question, the contract zas z ade, and to be exe1827.
/
..
cuted within the Statc of .'e.York. and was made subseV.
,quent to the passage of the law under which ne was dis- Ogden
,eral question Saunders.
charged. -Under these circumstances, the
presented for decisionis, whether this diEcharge can be set
up in bar of the present suit. It is not pretended, but that
if -the law under which the discharge was obtained, is valid,
and the discharge is to have its effect according to the provisions of that law, it -is an effetual bar to any recovery
against Ogden. But, it is alleged, that this law is void under the prohibition in the constitution of the United States,
(art. 1. sec. 10.) which declares, that " no State shall pass
any law impairing the obligation of contracts.1 So that the
inquiry here is, whether the law of New-York, under which
the discharge was obtained, is repugnant to this clause in
the consitution; and, upon the most mature consideration,
I have arrived at the conclusion, that the law~is.not void,
and that the discharge set up by the plaintiff in error is an
effectual protection against 'any liability upon thq bills in
q'uestion. In considering this question, I have assumed,
-that-the point now presented is altogether undecided, and
entirely open, for discussion. Although several cases have
been before this Court which may have'a bering upon the
question, yet, -upon the a "ument, tbe-particular point now
, raised has been treated by the counselts still open. for decision, and so considered by th6 Court by permitting its discussion. Although the law under which Ogden was discharged appears, by the recorq, to have been passed in the
year 1801, yet, it is proper to notice, that this was a mere
revimson and re.epactment of a law which was in force as
ealy, atleast, as from theyear 788, and which has continued-in force from.thf--time to the present, (except from
the 3d of April, 181 r, until the 14th of February, 181!9,) inmall
its material proyisions, which have any bearing upon the- preserit question. To declare a law null and void after such a
'lapse of time, and thereby prostrate a system which has
been in operation ior nearly forty years, ought'to be called
for by some urgentnecesshy, and founded upon reasons and
principles scarcely. admitting of. doubt. In our complexsystem.of government, we must expect that quesnong in-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
volving the jurisdictional' limits between the general and
State governments, will frequently arise; and they are always questions of great delicacy, and can never be met
Saunders. without feeling deeply and sensibly impressed with the sentiment, that this is the point upon which the harmony of
our system is most exposed to interruption. Whenever
such a questionis presented for decision, I cannot-better express my views of the leading principles which ought to govern this Court, than in the language of the Court itself in
the case of Fletcher v. Peck, (6 Cranch, 128.) "The question (says the Court) whether a law be void for its repugnancy to the constitution, is, at all times, a question of much
delicacy, which ought seldom or ever be decided in the affirmative in a doubtful case. The Court, when impelled by
duty to render such a judgment, would be unworthy of its
station, could it be unmindful of the solemn obligation which
that station imposes. But, it is not on slight implication,
and vague conjecture, that the legislature ii to be pronounced
to have transcended its powers, and its acts to be considered void. The opposition between the constitution and the
law should be such, that the judge feels a clear and strong
conviction of their incompatibility with each other." If
such be the rule by which the examination of this case is to
be governed and tried, (and that it is no one can doubt,) I
am certainly not prepared to say, that it is not, at least, a
doubtful case, or that I feel a clear conviction that the law
in question is incompatible with the constitution of the
United States.
In the discussibn it the bar, this has rightly been considered a question relating to the division of power between
the general and State governments. And in the consideration of all such questions, it cannot be too often repeated,
(although universally admitted,) or too deeply impressed on
the mind, that all the powers of the general government
are derived solely from the constitution ; and that whatever
power is not conferred by that charter, is reserved to the
States respectively, or to the people. *TheState of Newiork, when the law in question was pagsed, (for lrconsider
ths a Mere continuation of the Insolvent Act of 1788,) was
1827.

'

v
Ogden

OF THE UNITED STATES.

295

1827.
in the due and rightful exercise of its powers as an independsurrenbeen
has
power
this
unless
and
government,
ent
re- Ogden
dered by the constitution of the United States, it still
V.
mains in the State. And in this view, whether the law in Saunders.
question: be called a bankrupt or an insolvent law, is wholly
immaterial, it was such a law as a sovereign State had
right to pass; and 'the simple inquiry is, whether that righ'.
has been surrendered. No difficulty arses here out of any
inquiry about express or implied powers granted by the constitution. If the States have no authority to pass laws like
this, it must be in consequence of the express provision,
"that no State shall pass any law impairing the obligation
of contracts."
It is admitted, and has so been decided by this Court, that
a State law, discharging insolvent debtors from their contracts, entered into antecedent to the passing of the law, falls
within this clause in the constitution, and is void. In the
case now before the Court, the contract was made substquent
to the passage of the law, and this, it is believed, forms a
solid ground of distinction, whether tested by the letter, or
the spirit and policy of the prohibition. It was not denied
on the argument, and, I presume, cannot be, but that a law
may be void in part and good in part, or, in other words,
that it may be void, so far as it has a retrospective application to past contracts, and valid, as applied prospectively to
future contracts. The distinction was taken by the Court
in the third Circuit, in the case of Golden v. Prince, (5 Hall's
L. J. 502.) and which, I believe, was the first case that
"broughtinto discussion the validity of a State law analogous
to the one now under consideration. It was there held, that
the law was unconstitutional in relation to that particular
case, because it impaired the obligation of the contract,
by discharging the debtor from the payment of his debts.
due or contracted for before the passage of the law. But
it was admitted, that a law, prospective in its el ration. un,ler which a contract afterwards made might be avotded zn a may different from that provided by the parties. would
be clearly constitutional. And how is this distinction to be.
sustained, except on the ground that contracts are deemed
to he made in reference to the existing law. and to be ur

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.

verned, regulated, and controlled by its provisions 9 As the

v
Ogden

question before the Court was the validity of an insolvent
law, which discharged the debtor from all contracts, the dis-

V

Saunders. tinction must have been made in reference to the operation
of the discharge upon contracts made befoie, and such as
were made after the passage of the law, and is. therefore, a
case bearing directly upon the question now before the
Court. That the power given by the constitution to Congress, to establish uniform laws on the subject of bankruptcies throughout the United States, does not withdraw the
subject entirely from the States, is settled by the case of
Sturges v. Crowrmnshteld, (4 Wheat. Rep. 191.) Itis there
expressly held, that "until the power to pass uniform laws
on the subject of bankruptcies is exercised by Congress, the
States are riot. forbidden to pass a bankrupt law, provided it
contain no principle which violates the 1Oth section of the
first article of the constitution of the United States." And
this case also decides, that the right of the States to pass
bankrupt laws is not exti'rgushed, but is only suspended by
the enactment of a geveanu bankrupt law by Congress, and
that a repeal of that law removes disability to the exercise

of the power by the States; so that the question now before
th6 Court,. is narrowed down to the single inquiry, whether
a State bankrupt law, operatingprospectively upon contracts
mpde after its enactment, impairs the .obligation of such
contract, within the sense Ldzmeaning of the constitution
of the Uniied States.
This clause in the constitution has given rise to much
discussion, and great- diversity of opinion has been entertained 9s to its true interpretation. Its application to some
cases may be plain and palpable, to others more doubtful.
But, so far as relates to the particular question now under
considc ration, the weight of judicial opinions in the State
Courts is altogether in favour of the constitutionality of the
law,. so far'as my examination has extended. And, indeed,
I am not aware of a single contrary opinion. (13 Mass.

Rep. 1. 16 Johns. Rep. 293.

7 Johns. Ch. Rep. 299.

5.Binn. Rep. T64. 5 RFalls L. J. 520. 6th ed. 475. Miles'
Reg. 15th of September. 1821. Townsend v. Townsend.)
In proceeding to a more particular examination of the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

297

true import of the clause "no State shall pass any law im- 1827.
pairing the obligation of contracts," the inquiries which k
seem naturally to arise are, what is a contract, what its obli- Ogda
gation, and what may be said to impair it. As to what con- Saunderr
stitu,tes a contract, no diversity of opinion exists, all the
elementary writers on the subject, sanctioned by judicial
decisions, consider it briefly and simply an agreement in
which a competent party undertakes to do, or not to do, a
particular thing; but all know, that the agreement does not
always, nay, seldom, if ever, upon its face, specify the full
extent of the terms and conditions of the contract, many
things are necessarily implied, and-to be governed by some
rule not contained in the agreement; and this rule can be
no other than the existing law when the contract is made, or
to be executed. Take, for example, the familiar case of
an agreement to pay a certain sum of money, with interest.
The amount, or rate of such interest, is to be ascertained
by some standard out of the agreement, and the law presumes the parties meant the common rate of interest esta.
blished in the country where the contract was to be per.
formed. This standard is not looked to for the purpose of
removing any doubt or ambiguity arising on the contract itself, but to ascertain the extent of its obligation; or, to put
a case more analogous, suppose a statute should declare genet-ally. that all contracts for the payment of money should
bear interest after the day of payment fr-ed n the contract,
and a note, where such law was in force, should be made
payable in a -given number of days after date. -Such note
would surely draw interest from the day it became payable,
although the note upon its face made no provisuoii for interest, and the obligation of the contract to pay tht interest
would be as complete and binding as to pay the principal;
but such would not be its operation without looking out of
the instrument itself, to the law which created the obligation to pay interest. The same rule applies to contracts of
every description, and parties must be understood as making
their contracts with reference to existing laws, and impliedly
assenting that such contracts are to be construed, goverited.
and controlled, by such laws. Contracts absolute, and un
38
vp.. XII.

!98

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

conditional, upon their face, are often considered subject to
implied condition which the law establishes as applicable to such cases. Suppose a State law should declare,
Ogden
V.
Saunders. tLat in all- conveyances thereafter to be made, of real esta.e, the land should be held as security for the payment of
the cor-nderation money, and liable to be sold, in case default should be made i payment. would such a law be
unconstitutional ? And yet it would vary the contract from
that which was made by the parties, it yidged of by the face
of the deed alone, and would be making a contract conditional, which the parties had made absolute, and would certainly be imparng such contract, unless it was deemed to
have been made subject to the provisions of such law, and
with reference thereto, and that the law was impliedly
adopted as forming the obligation and terms of the contract.
The whole doctrine of the lex locz is founded on this principle.
The language of the Court, in the tird Circuit, in the case
of Campanquev Burnell, (1 ffWashinaton C. C. Rep. 341.) is
very strong on this point. Those laws, say the Court, which
in any manner affect the contract, whether ii its construc.
Lion, the mode of dischargingit, or which control the obligalion which the cor'tract imposes, are essentially incorporated
with the coutrac" itself. The contract is, a law which the
parties impose'upon themselves, subject, however, to the
paramount law-the law of the country where the contract
is made. And when to be enforced by foreign tribunals
such tribunals aim only to give effect to the contractsi according to the laws which gave them validity. So, also, in
this Court, in the case of Renner v. the Bank of Columbia, (9
Wheat. Rep, 586.) the language of the Court is to the same
effect, and shows that we may look out of the contract, to any
known law or custom, with reference to which the parties
may be presumed to have contracted, in order to ascertain
their intention, and the legal, and binding force, and obligation of their contract. The Fank of Columbia v. Oakley, (4
Wheat. Rep. 235.) is another case recognising the same principle. And in the case of Dartmouth Coll: . v. 9 oodward,
(4 Wheat. Rep. 695.) it is well observed by one ofthe judges
of this Court. "that all contracts recognised as valid in any
1827.

San

'OF THE UNITED STATES.

99

country, obtain their obligation and construction jurs locz 1827.
contractuai l And this doctrine is universally recognised, \do-t
Ogden'
both in the English and American Courts.
V.
If contracts are not made with reference to existing laws, Saunders.
and to be governed.and regulated by such laws. the agreement of parties, under the extended construction now
claimed for this clause in the constitution, may control State
laws on the subject of contracts altogether. A parol agreement for the sale of land is a contract, and if the agreement
alone makes the contract, and it derives its obligation solely
from such agreement, without reference to the existing law,
it would seem to follow, that any law which had declared
such contract void, or had denied a remedy for breach
thereof, would impair its obligation. A construction involving such consequences is certainly inadmissible. Any contract not sanctioned by existing laws creates no civil- obligation; and any contract discharged in the mode and manner provided by the existing law where it was made, cannot,
upon any just principles of reasoning, be said-to impair such
contract.
It will, I believe, be found on examination, that the course
of legislation in some of the States between 'debtor and creditor, which formed the grounds of so much complaint, and
which probably gave rise to this prohibition in the constitution, consisted principally, if not entirely, of laws having a
retrospective operatior upon antecedent debts.
If a contract does not derive its obligation frqm the positive law of the country where it is made, where is to bt
found the rule, that such obligation does not attach until the
contracting party has attained a certain age ? In what code
of natural law, or in what system of umversdl law, otut of
wfich it is said, at the bar, spring the eternal and unalterable principles of right and of justide, will be found a rule,
that such obligation does not attach so as to bind a party
utider the age of twenty-one years 7 No one will pretend,
that a aw exonerating a party from contracts entered into
before arriving at such age, would be, invalid. .And yet, it
would impaii the obligation of the contract, il.such obligation-is derived from any other source than the existing lav.
of the place where made. Would it not he within the legr-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
timate powers of a State legislature to declare prospectively
that no one should be made responsible, upon contracts entered into before arnving at the age of tzoentY-five years.
uunders. This, I presume, cannot be doubted. But, to apply such a
law to past contracts, entered into when twenty-one years
was tie limit, would clearly be a violation of the obli*ation
of the contract. No such distinction, however, could exist,
unless the obligation of the contract grows out of the existing law, and with reference to which the contract must be
deemed to have been made.
The true import of the term obligation, as used in the constitution, may admit of some doubt. That it refers to the
civil, or legal, and not moral obligation, is admitted by all.
But whether the remedy upon the contract is entirely excluded from the operation of this provision, is a point on which
some diversity of opinion has been entertained.
That it is not intended to interfere with or limit State
legislation, in relation to the remedy, in the ordinary
prosecution of suits, no one- can doubt. And, indeed,
such a principle is indispensable to facilitate commer.
ctal intercourse between ihe citizens or subjects of different governments, and is sanctioned by all civilized nations, and if, according to the language of thiese cases, this
principle extends to the obligation, as well as the construction of contracts, it would seem to follow, as a necessary
conclusion, that it must embrace all the consequences growing out of the laws of the country where the.contract is
made, for it is the law which creates the obligation, and
whenever, therefore, the lex loci provides for the dissolution of the contract in any prescribed mode, the parties are
presumed to have acted subject to such contingency. And
hence, in. the English Courts, wherever the operation of a
foreign discharge under a bankrupt law has been brought
unaer consideration, they have given to it the same effect
that it would have had in the country where the contract
was made. And the same rule has been recognised and adopted in the Courts of this country almost universally, where
the question has arisen. But whether a law might not so
change the nature and extent of existing remedies, and thereby so materially impair the right, as to fall within the scope
1827.
v
Ogden
V.

OF THE

of this prolikitihoea

NtED STATES.

itextebded to remedies upon antece-

1827.
If the law, whatever
Ogden
it-way be, relating to the remedy, has a prospective opera.
tion only, no objection can arise to it under this clause in Saunders.
the constitution. It is a question that must rest in the
sound discretion of the State legislature. But men, when
entering into contracts, can hardly be presumed entirely regardless of the remedy which the law provides in case of a
breach of the contract, and the means of obtaining satisfaction for such breach enters essentially into consideration
in making the contract. If, at the time of making the contract, it be known, that the person only of the debtor, and
not his property, or his personal property only, and not his
lands, or a certain part of either, is to be resorted to for satisfaction, no ground of complaint can exist, the contract
having bQen made with full knowledge of all these things ;
but if, at the time the contrtct is made, not only the person,
but all the property, both real and personal, of the debtor,
might be resorted to for satisfaction, and a law should be
passed, placing beyond the reach of the creditor the whole,
or the principal part, of the debtor's property, it would be
dificult to sustain the constitutionality of such a layv. The
statute of limitations is conceded to relate to the remedy.
Suppose, when a contract was made, the limitation was six
ye!irq, and it should be reduced to six months, or any shorter
period, and applied to antecedent contracts, would it not be
cepugnantto thecoustitution 9 But ofthe legislature of a State
should choose to adopt, prospectivel) six months as the limident contracts, is by no-means clear.

tation, who could question the authort) iso to do ' Atd -up
pose, further, that the unconstitutionaliti -it the law m ,uu,
tiois admitted.could 'he State n! .iw
oiLw ." a luIruut
ing the right of recovery agamlui iu) msoh eit who had b.en

duly discharged according tt. the pro%isiout ol the 110,,L
act, to ten days from the passage of such law " And Net
this would be a statute of hmiiation and afftct the r, needy
only. The law now ii question ib u-othinii, more thai taking
away all remedy, and whether it be the whole. or -- me
material part thereof. w-,jld seenm to differ in degree only.

and not in principle

and if to have a retrospective oera-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1827.

tion, might well be considered as falling within the spirit
policy of the prohibition.
In the case of Sturges v. Crowninshteld, the Court, in

Sand

Ogden
V.

Saunders, expraining the meaning of the terms " obligation of a contract," say, " A contract is an agreement in which a party
undertakes to do. or not to d6, a particular thing. The law
bznds him to.perforkz his undertaking, and th.s is, of course,
That is, as I understand 'it,
the obligation of his contract.
obligation; and if so, the
its
forms
the law of the contract
discharged by comits
obligation
and
fulfilled,
is
contract
plying with whatever the existing law required in relation to
such contract; and it would seem to me to follow, that if
the law, looking to the coiftingency of the debtors becoming unable to pay the whole debt, should provide for his
discharge on payment of a part, this would enter into the
law of the contract, and the obligation to pay wo.did, ofcourse, be subject to such contingency.
It is unnecessary, however, on the present occasion, to
attempt to draw, with precision, the line between the right
and the remedy. or to determine whether the prohibition in
the constitution extends to the former, and not to the latter
or whether, to a certain extent, it embraces both; for the
law in question strikes at the very root of the cause oP action, and takes away both right anid remedy, and the question still remains, does the prohibition extend to a State
bankrupt or insolvent law, like the one in question, when
applied to contracts entered into subsequent to-its passage.
Whether this is technically a bankrupt or an insolvent law.
is of little *importance. Its operation, if valid, is to discharge the debtor absolutely from all future liability on surrendering up his property, and, in that respect, is- a bankrupt law, according to the universal understanding in England, where a bankrupt system is in operation. It is not,
however, limited to traders, but extends to every class of
citizens i and, in this respect,.is more analogous to the English insolvent laws, which only authorize the discharge of
the debtor from imprisoinent.
If this provision in the constitution was unambiguous, and.
its meaning entirely free from doubt, there would be no door
left open for donstruction. or any proper ground upon which

OF THE UNITED. STATES.

S

1827.
the intention of the framers of the cqnstitution could be in-v-.'
it
its
to
give
to
bound
be
would
Court
this
quired into
of Ogden
entertained
views
the
be
might
whatever
operation,
jfull
its expediency. But the.diversity of opinion entertained of Saunders.
its construction, will fairly justily an inquiry into the intention, as well as the reason and policy of the provistion, all
which, in my judgment, will warrant its being confined to
laws affecting contracts. made antecedent to the passage of
such laws. Such would appear tobe the plain and natural
interpretation of the words, " no State shall 'pass any law
impairing the obligation of contracts."
The law must have a present effect upon some contract
in existence, to bnng it within the plain meaning of the language employed. There would be no propriety in saying,
that a law impaired, or in any manner whatever modified
or altered, what did nrt exist. The most obvious and natural application of the words themselves, is to laws having a
retrospective operation upon existing contracts, and this
construction is fortified b) the associate prohibitions, "no
State shall pass any bill of attainder, ex post facto law, or law
impairing the obligation of contracts." The two first are
confessedly restricted to retrospective laws, concerning
crimes and penaltka affizcting the personal securit) of Individuals. And no good reason is perceived why the last
should not be iestricted to retrospective laws, relating to
private rights growing out of the contracts of parties. The
sone provision is intended to protect the person of the citizen
from punishment criminally for any act not unlawful when
committed, and the other to protect the rights of property.
as secured by contracts sanctioned by existing laws. No one
supposes that a State legislature is under any restriction in
declaring, prospectively, any acts criminal which its own
wisdom and policy may deem expedient. And why not apply the same rule of construction and operation to the other
provision relating to the rghts of property 9 Neither provision can strictly be considered as introducnai any new principle, but only for greater security and safety to incorporate
into this charter prvisions admitted by all to be among the
first principles of our government. No State Court would,
I presume. sanction and enforce an ex post facto law. if n,-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.
v
Ogden

such prohibition was contained in the constitution of the
United States; so, neither would retrospective laws. taking
away vested rights, be enforced. Such laws are repugnant
Saunders. to those fundamental principlep. upon which every just system of laws is founded. It is an elementaiy principle adopted and sanctioned by the Courts of justice in this coufitry,
and in Great Britain, whenever such laws have come under
consideration, and yet retrospective' laws are clearly within
this prohibition. It is, therefore, no objection to the view I
have taken ofthii clause in the constitution, that the provision was unnecessary. The great principle asserted, no donbt,
is, as laid down by the Court in Sturges v. Crownrnshield,
Aie inviolabilityofcontracts ; and this principle is fully maintained by confining the prohibition to laws affecting antecedent contracts. It is the same principle, we find, cotemporaneously, (13th July, 1787, 1 L. U. S. 475.) asserted by.
the old Congress, in an ordinance.for the government of the
territory of the United States norlh-west of the river Ohio.
By one of the fundamental articles it is provided, that "in the
just preservation of rights and property, it is understood and
declared that no law ought ever to be made, or have force in
the territory, that shall in any manner whatever interfere
with or affect private contracts or engagements, bonafide, and
withoiut fraud, previously made," thereby pointedly making
a distinction befween laws affecting contracts antecedently,
and subsequelitly made;, and such a distinction seems toine
to be founded upon the soundest principles of justice, if there
xsr any. thing in the argument that cqntracts are. made with
reference to, and derive their obligation from the existing
law.
That the prohibition. upon the States'to pass laws impairiing the obligation of contracts is applicable to private rights
merely, without referenci to bankrupt laws, was evidently
the understanding of those distibguished commentators on
the constitution, who wrote the Federalist. In the 44th
number of that wprk (p. 281.) it is said, that" bills of attainder, ex post facto lavs, and laws impairing the obligation of
contracts, are contrary to the first principles of the social
compact, and tO every principle of sound legislation. The
two former are expressly prohibited by the declarations pre-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

axed to some of the State constitutions, and all of them are 1827.
prohibited by the spirit and scope of these fundamental
Ogden
V.
charters. Our own experience has taught us, nevertheless,
that additional defences against these dangers ought not to be Saunder_omitted. Very properly, therefore, have the Convention
added this constitutional bulwark in favour of personal security and private rights." Had it been supposed that this
restriction had for its object the taking from the States the
right of passing insolvent laws, even when they went to
discharge the contract, it is a little surprising that no intimation of its application to that subject should be found in
these commentaries upon the constitution. And it is still
more surprising, that if it had been thought susceptible of
any such interpretation, that no objection should have been
made in any of the States to the constitution on this ground,
when the ingenuity of man was on the stretch in many States
to defeat its adoption; and particularly in the State of NewYork, where the law now in question vwas in full force at the
very time the State Convention was deliberating upon the
adoption of the constitution. But if the prohibition is confined to retrospective laws, as it naturally imports, it isnot
surprising that it should have passed without objection, as it
is the assertion of a principle universally approved.
It was pressed upon the Court with great confidence, and,
as it struck me at the time, with much force, that if this restriction" could not reach laws existing at the time the contract was made, State legislatures might evade the prohibition (immediately preceding) to make any thing but gold
and silver a tender in payment of debts, by making the law
prospective in its operation, and applicable to contracts
thereafter to be made. But on reflection, I think, no such
consequences are involved. When we look at the whole
clause in which these restrictions are contained, it will be
seen, that the subjects embraced therein are evidently to be
divided into two classes ; the one of a public and national
character, the power over which is entirely taken away
from the States; and the other relating to private and
personal rights, upon which the States may legislate under the restrictions specified. The former are, "no State
shall enter any into treaty, alliance, or confederation. grant
q
VOL. NIT-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUIT

letters of marque and reprisal, coin money, emit bills et
Thus far there can be no question, that they relate
to powers of a general and national character. The next
Saunders. in order is, or "make any thing but gold and silver a
tender in payment of debts;" this is founded upon the same
principles of public and national policy, as the prohibition
to coin money and emit bills of credit, and is so considered
in the commentary on this clause in the number of the Federalist I have referred to. It is there said, the power to
make any thing but gold and gilver a tender in payment of
debts, is withdrawn from the States, on the same principles
with that of issuing a paper currency. All these prohibitions, therefore, relate to powers of a public nature, and
are general and universal in their application, and inseparably connected with national policy. The svbject matter is
entirely withdrawn from State authority and State legislation. But the succeeding prohibitions are of a different
character, they relate to personal security and private
rights, viz. or "pass any bill of attainder, ex post facto law,
or law impairing the obligation of contracts.2 The subject
matter of-such laws is not withdrawn from the States ; but
the legislation thereon must be under the restriction therein
imposed. States may legislate on the subject of contracts,
but the laws must not impair the obligation of such contracts:
A tender of payment necessarily refers to the time when
the tender is made, and has no relation to the time when the
law authorizing it shall be passed, or when the debt was
contracted. The prohibition is, therefore, general and unlimited in its application. It has been urged in argument.
that this prohibition to the States to pass laws impairing the
obligation of contracts, had in view an object of great national policy, connected with the power to regulate commerce ; that the leading purpose was to take from The,
States the right of passing bankrupt laws. And to illustrate
and enforce this position, this clause has been collated with
that which gives to Congress the power of passing uniform
laws on the subject of bankruptcies; and by transposition of
the clause, the constitution is made to read, Congress shall
have power to establish uniform laws on the subject of
bankruptcies throughout the United States ; but no State

1827.
\credit."
Ogden

OF THE UNITED STATES.
Shall pass any law impairing the obligation of contracts;
and this prohibition is made to mean, no State shall pass any

bankrut law.

307
1827.
Ogden

No just objection can be made to this collocation, if the Saunders.

grant of the power to Congress, and the prohibition in question to the States, relate to the same. subject matter, viz.
bankrupt laws. But it appears to me very difficult to maintain
this proposition. It is,in the first place, at variance with the
decision in Sturges v. Crozrirnshield,where it is held, that
this power is not taken from the States absolutely, but only
in a limited and modified sense. And in the next place, it is
ntot reasonable to suppose, that a denial of this power to
the States, would have been couched in such ambiguous
terms, if, as ins been Contended, the giving to Congress the
exclusive power to pass bankrupt laws, was the great and
leading object of this prohibition, and the preservation of
private rights followed only as an incident of minor importance, it is difficult to assign any satisfactory reason,
why the denial of the power to the States was not expressed in plain and unambiguous terms, viz. no State
This would have been
shall pass any bankrupt law.
a more natural, and, certainly, a less doubtful form of
expression; and, besides . if the object was to take from
the States altogether the right of passing bankrupt laws,
or insolvent laws having the like operation, why did not
the denial of tie power extend also to naturalization laws?
The grant of the power to Congress on this subject, is contained in the same clause, and substantially in the same
words, "To establish an uniform rule of naturalization,

and uniform laws on the subject of bankruptcies throughout
the United States." If the authority of Congress on the
subject of naturalization is exclusive, from the nature of
the power, why is it not,.also, with respect to bankruptcies 9
And if, in the one case, the denial of the power to the States
was necessary, it was equally so in the other. I cannot

think, therefore, that the prohibition to piass laws impairing

.the obligation of contracts, had any reference to a general
system of. bankrupt or insolvent laws. Such a system, established by. the sovereign legislative power of the general,
or State governments, dannot, in, any.just sense..be said to

GASES IN THE SUPREME coULRT

k

1827.

Ogden
V.

impair the obligation of contracts. In every government
of laws there must be a power somelrhere to regulate civil
contracts; and where, under our system, is that power vest-

Saunlers. ed? It must be either in the general or State governments.
There is certainly no such power granted to the general government, and all power not granted is reserved to the
States. The whole subject, therefore, of the tegulation of
contracts must remain with the States, and be governed by
their laws respectively; and to deny to them the ight-of
-prescribing. ihe terms and .conditions upon which persons
shall be bound by their contracts thereafter made, is imposing upon the States a limitation, for which I find no aothority in the constitution; and no contract can impose a civil
obligation beyond that prescribed bj the existing law when
the contract was made; nor can such obligation be impaired by controlling, and discharging the contract according to
the provkions of such law. Suppose a contract for the
payment of money shoul, contain an express stipulation by
the creditor.to accept a proportional part, in cwse the debtor should become insolvent, and to discharge the contract, can there be a. doubt that such contract would be enforced? And what is the law in question but such contract,
when applied, to the .undertaking of Ogden by accepting
these bills. It is no strained construction of the transaction, to consider.the contract and thelaw inseparablevwien
judging of the obligation.imposedupon. the debtor; and, if
so, the. undertaking was conditional; and the hider iof the
bills agreed to accept a part in .case of the linability of .Ahe
acceptor, by reason of his inpolvency, 4o pay thl wholes
The.unconstitutionality of this lawis said-to arise bore
its exempting the property'.of the. insolvent, acquired after
his discharge. from the payiment of his antecedent debts. A
discharge of the person of the debtor is admitted to be no
violation of the contract. If this objection is well founded2
it must be on ,the ground, that the obligation of every contract attaches upon the property of the'debtor, and any law
exonerating it, violates this obligation. I do not mean that
the position implies a lien by way of mortgage, or pledge,
on any specific property, but that all'the property which a
debtor has, when called upon for payment is liable to be

OF THE UNITED STATES.

309

taken in execution to satisfy the debt, and that a law re- 1827.
leasing any portion of it impaips the obligation of the con.
Vo
tract. The force and justice of this position, when applied Ogden
to contracts .existing at the time the law is passed, is not Saunders.
now drawn in question. Bit its correctness, when applied
to contracts thereafter made, is denied. The mode, and
manner, and the extent to which property may be taken in
satisfaction of debts, must be left to the sou.id discretion of
the legislature, and regulated by its views of policy and expediency, in promoting the general welfare of the community, subject to such regulation. It was the policy of the
comnmon law, under the feudal system, to exempt lands altogether from being seized, and applied in satisfaction of
debts; not even possession could be taken from the tenant.
There can be no natural right growing out of the.relation of
debtor and creditor, that will give the latter an unlimited
clain upon the property of the former. It is a matter entirely for the regulation of civil society, nor is there any
fundamental principle of justice, growing out of such relation, that calls upon government to enforce the payment of
debts to the uttermost farthing which the debtor may
possess; and that the modification and extent of such liability, is a subject within the authority of State legislation.
seems to be admitted by the uninterrurted exercise of it. I
hae not deemed it necessary to look into the statute books
of all the States on-this subject, but think it may be safely
sfflrmed, that in most, if not all the States, some limitation
of the right of the creditor, over the property of the debtor, has been establighed. In New-York, various articles of
personal property are exempted from execution. In Rhode
Island, real estate cannot at all be taken on judicial proces:
for satisfaction of a debt, so long as the body of the debtor
is to be found within the State; and Virginia has adopted
the English process of elegit, and a moiety only of the
debtor's freehold is delivered to the creditor, until, out of
the rents and profits thereof, the debt is paid. Do these
statute regulations impair the obligation of contracts 9 I
presume this will not be contended for; and yet they would
seem to me to fall within the principle urged on the part of
the defendant in error.

%,ASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
it is no satisfactory answer to say, that such laws relate
the remedy. The principle asserted is, that the creditor
has a right to his debtor's property by virtue of the obligaV.
Saunders. tion of the contract, to the full satisfaction of the debt; and
if so, a law, which in any shape exempts any portion of it,
must impair the obligation of the contract. Such a limitation and restriction upon the powers of the State governments cannot, in my judgment, be supported, under the
prohibition to pass laws impairing the obligation of contracts.
If the letter of the constitution does not imperiously demand a construction which denies to the States the power
of passing insolvent laws like the one in question, policy
and expediency require a contrary construction. Although
there may be some diversity of opinion as to the policy of
establishing a general bankrupt system in the United States,
yet it is generally admitted that such laws are useful, if not
absolutely necessary, in a commercial community That it
was the opinion of the framers of the constitution, that the
power to pass bankrupt laws ought somewhere to exist, is
clearly inferrable from the grant of such power to Congress.
A contrary conclusion woul, involve the greatest absurdity.
The specific power, however, granted to Congress, never
lid, nor never could, exist in the Statc governments. That
power is to establish uniform laws on the subject of bankrupfeies throughout the United States, which could only be
done by a government having co-extensive jurisdiction.
Congress not having as yetdeemed it expedient to exercise
the power ofre-establishing a uniform system of bankruptcy,
affords no well-founded argument against the expediency or
necessity ofsucha system in any particular State. A bankrupt law is most necessary in a commercial community, and
as different Slates in this respect do not stand on the same
footing, a system which might be adapted to one, might not
iultall, whih would naturally present difficulties in forming
any unif,.: :-" qystem; and Congress may, as heretofore, deem it
expedient to leave each State to establish such system as shall
best suit its own local circumstances and views of policy,
knowing, at the same time, that if any great public inconvenience shall grow out of the different State laws. the evils

1827.
'~~'to
Ogden

OF TIE bNITED S'rATk

SEi
311

may be corrected by establishing a uniform system, according 1827.
to the provision of the constitution, which will suspend the
Ogden
V.
State laws on the subject. If such should be the views entertained by Congress, and induce them to abstain from the Saunders:
exercise of the power, the importance to the State of NewYork, as well as other States, of establishing the validity of
laws like the one in question, is greatly increased. The
long continuance of it there, clearly manifests the views of
the State legislature with respect to the policy and expediency of the law. And I cannot but feel strongly impressed, that the length of time which this law has been in undisputed operation, and the repeated sanction it has received
from every department of the government, ought to have
griat weight when judging of its constitutionality.
The provisions of the 61 st section of the bankrupt law of
1800, appear to me to contain a clear expression of the opinion of Congress.in favour of the validity ofthis, and similar
laws in other States. It cannot be presumed they were ignorant of the existence .of these laws, or their extent and
operation. And, indeed, the section expressly assumes the
existence of such laws, by declaring that this act shall not
repeal or annul the laws of any State now in force, or which
may be thereafter enacted for the relief of insolvent debtors,
except so far as the same may affectp rsons within the pur-,iew of the bankrupt act; and even with respect to such
persons, it provides that, if the creditors shall not prosecute
a commission of bankruptcy within a limited time, they shall
be entitled to relief under the State laws for the relief of insolvent debtors. And what relief did such laws give? Wasit
merely from imprisonment onlyt Certainly not. The State
laws here ratified and sanctioned, or, at least, some of them,
were such as hAd the full effect and operation of a bankrupt
law, to wit: to discharge the debtor absolutely from all future
responsibility. It is true, if these laws were unconstitutional
and void, this section of the bankrupt law could give them
no validity. But it is not in this light the argument is used.
The reference is only to show the sense of Congress with
respect to the validity of such laws; and, if it is fair to presume
Congress was acquainted with the extent and operation of
these laws, this clause is a direct affirmation of their validi-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
ty. For it cannot be presumed that body would have exSpressly ratified and sanctioned laws which they considered
unconstitutional.
Ogden
1827.
V.

Saunders.

In the case of Sturges y. Crownrnshzeld, as I have before
remarked, it is said, that bythis prohibition (Art. 1. sec. 10.)
in the constitution, the Convention appears to have intended
to establish a great principle, "'that contractsshould be invzo.
lable.1" This was certainly, though a great, yet not a new
principle. It is a principle inherent in every sound and just
system of laws, independent of express constitutional restraints. And if the assertion of this principle was the
object of the clause, (as I think it was,) is it reasonable
to conclude, that the framers of the constitution supposed that a bankrupt or insolvent law, like the one in question, would violate this principle 9 Can it be supposed
that the constitution would have reserved the right, and impliedly enjoined the duty upon Congress to pass a bankrupt
law, if it had been thought that such law would violate this
great principle ? If the discharge of a party from the performance of his contracts, when he has, by misfortunes, become incapable of fulfilling them, is a violation of the eternal and unalterable principles of justice, growing out of
what has been called at the bar the universal law, can it
be, that a power, drawing after it such consequences, has
been recognised and reserved in our constitution 9 Cer.tainly not. And is the discharge of a contract any greater
violation of those sacred principles in a State legislature,
than in that of the United States 9 No such distinction will
be pretended. But a bankrupt or insolvent law involves
no such violation of the great principles of justice, and this is
iy tw, light in which it always has been, and ought to be,
considered. Such law, in its principle and object, has in
view the benefit of both debtor and creditor, and is no more
than the just exercise of the sovereign legislative power of
the government to relieve a debtor from his contracts, when
necessity, and unforeseen misfortunes,'have rendered him
incapable of performing them, and whether this power is
to be exercised by the States individually, or by the United
States, can make no difference in principle. In a government like ours. where sovereignty, to a modified extent,

Of THE UNITED STATES.

313

1827.
in the States, and in the United States. It was,
in'the formation of the constitution, a mere question of poHoy and expediency, where this power shotild be exercised; Ogden
V.
.add there can be no question, but that, so far as respects a Saunders.
bankrupt lawi properly speaking, the power ought to be exercised by the general government. It is naturally connected with commerce, and should be uniform throughout the
United States. A bankrupt system deals with commercial
men, but this affords no reason why a State should not dxercise its sovereign power in relieving the necessities of men
who do not fall within the class of traders, and who, from
like misfortune, have become incapable of performing their
contracts.
With6fit questioning the constitutional power of Congress to extend a bankrupt law to all classes of debtors, the
expediency of such a measure may well be doubted. There
ip not the same -necessity of uniformity. of system, as to
other classes than traders ; their dealings are generally local,
and different considerations of policy may influence different
States on this subject; and should Congress pass a bankrupt
law confined to traders, it would still leave the insolvent
law of New-York in force as to other classes of debtors,
subject to such "alteration as that State shall deem expedient.
Upon the whole, therefore, it having been settled by ibis
Courtthat the States have a right to pass bankrupt laws,
provided they do not violate the prohibition against impairing the obligatibn of contracts 5 and believing, as I do, for
the reasons I have given, that the insolvent law in question,
by which a debtor obtains a discharge from all future responsibility, upon contracts entered into after the passage
of thb law, and befire his.disciiarge, does not impair the
obligation of his contracts; I am of opinion, that the judg.ment of the Court below ought to be reversed.
,exist&both

iBLE.. The question raised upon the rdMr. Justice TRm
cord in this case, and which has been discussed at the bar,
may be stated thus: Has a State, since the adoption of the
constitution of the United States, authority to pass a bdnk40
VOL. XII.-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.
v

Ogden
V.

rupt or insolvent law, discharging the bankrupt or insolvent
from all contracts made within $heState after the passage of
the law, upyn the bankrupt or insolvent siurrendering his

Saunders. effects, and obtaining a certificate of discharge from the constituted authorities of the State 9
The counsel for the defendant in erfor have endeavopred
to maintain the negative of the proposition, on two grounds:
First. That the power conferred-on Congress by the constitution, "to establish uniform laws on-the subject of bankruptcies throughout the United States," is, in its nature, an
exclusive power; that, consequently, no State has authority
to pass a bankrupt law; and that the law under consideration
is a bankrupt lawv.
Secondly. That it is a law mipairng the obligation of contracts, within the meaning of the constitution.
In the case of Sturgs v. Cronnrnsh:eld,(4 Wheat. Rep.
122.) this Court expressly decided, "that since the adoption of the constitution of the United $tates, a State has
authority to pass a bankrupt law, provided such law does
not impair the obligation of contracts, within the meaning of
the constitution, and provided there be no act of Congress
in force to establish a uniform system of bankruptcy conflicting with such law."
This being a direct judgment of the Court, overruling the
first position assumed in argument, that judgment ought to
prevail, upless it be very clearly shown to be erroneous.
Not having-been a member of the Court when that judgment was given, I will content myself with saying, the argument has not convinced me it is erroneous; and that, on
the contrary, I think the opinion is fully sustami by a
sound const-ructfon'of the constitution.
There being no act of Congress in force to establish a
unirorm system of bankruptcy, the first ground of argument
must fail.
It is argued, that the law under consideration is a law impairing the obligation of contract& within the meaning of
the constitution. The itoW section of the 1st art. of the
constitution is id these wordi : "no State shall enter into
any treaty, alliance, or confederation, grant letters of marque
and reprisal. coin money;. emit billsof credit; make. any

-OF THE UNITED STATES.

315

.thing but gold and silver coin a tender in payment of debts;
1827.
pass any bill of attainder, ex post facto law, or law impairing the obligation of contrhcts ; or grant any itle of nobi- Ogden
V.
lity."
Saunders.
In the case of Sturges v. Crovnmnshelid,the defendant in
the original.suit had been discharged in New York, under
an insolvent law of that State, which purported to apply to
past as well as future contracts; and being sued on a contract made within the State prior to the passage of the law,
he pleaded his certificate of discharge in bar of the action.
In answer to the 3d and 4th questions, certified from the.
Circuit Court t8 this Court for its final decisiop, drawing in
question the constitutionality of the law, and the sufficiency of
the plea in bar founded upon it, this Court certified its opinion, " that the act of New-York, pleaded in this case, so
far as it attempti to discharge the contract on which thia-suit
was instituted, is a law impairing the obligation bf cektracts,
within the meaning of the constitution of the United States;
and that the plea of the defendant is-not a good and suffi.
cient bar of the plamtiff's action."
In the case of M'MIlairv. M'.eirl, (4 Iseaf. -Rep 209.)
the defendant in the Cqurt belowpladed a discharge ob.
tained by him in Louisiana, on the 23d of August, 1815,
under the insolvent law of that State, passed in 1808, in
bar'if a suit instituted against him upon a contract made in
Southt Carolina in the year 1813. This Court decided
that the plea was no bar to-the action; and affirmed the
judgment giveni below for the plaintiff.
These cases do not decide the case atbar. In the first,
the. discharge was pleaded in bar to. a contract made, prior
to'the pass!e of the law, and in the second, the discharge
I -* one State upder its laws, was pleaded to a conMaLmade in another State. Thqy leave the question open,
whether a discharge obtained in a State under an insolvent
law of the State, is a good bar'-to an action brought on a
contract madef within the State after the passage of the law.,
In presenting this inquiry$- it is immaterial whether the
law purports to apply to past as well as future contracts, or
is wholly prospective in its provisions.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.
v
Ogden
V.

It is not the terms of the law, but its effect, that is inhibited by the constitution. A law way be ,n part constitutional,
and in part 'unconstitutional. It may, when applied to a

Saunders. given case, produce an effect which is prohibited by the
constitution,. but it may not, when applied to a cpse differently circumstanced, produce such prohibited effect. Whether the law under consideration, in its effects aDd operation
upon the contract sued on in this case, be a law impairing
the obligation of this contract, is the only necessary inquiry.
In order to come to a just conclusion, we must ascertain,
if we can, the sense in which the terms, "obligation of
contracts," is used in the constitutiom In attempting to-do
this, I will premise, that in congtruing an instrument of so
much solemnity and importance, effect should be given, if
possible, to every word. No expression should be regarded
as a useless expletive; nor should it he-supposed, without
the most urgent necessity, that the illustrious framers of that
instrument had, from ignorance or inattention, used different
words, which are, in effect, merely tautologous.
I understand it to be admitted in argument, and if not admitted, it could not be reasonably contested, that, in the nature of things, there is a difference between a contract, and
the obligation of the contract The terms contract, and obligation, although sometimes used loosely as convertible
terms do not properly impart the same idea. The constitution plainly presupposes that a contract and its obligation
are different.things. Were they the same thing, and the
terms, contract and obligation convertible, the constitution,
iistead of being read as it now is, "that no State shall pass
any law impairing the obligation of contracts," might, with
the same meaning, be read, "that no State shall pass any
law impairing the obligation of obligations," or,*" the contract of contracts ;" and to give to the constitution the same
meaning which either of these readings would import, would
be ascribing to its framers a useless and palpably .absurd
tautology. The illustrious framers of the constitution could
piot be ignorant that there were, ormight be, many contracts
without obligation, and many obligations without contracts.
"A contract is defined to be, an agreement in which a par-

OF THE UNITED STATES.
tyiindertakes to do, or not-to do, a particular thing." Slurget v. Crowrnnshield,(4 Wheat. Rep. 197.)

31"1
1827.

This definition is sufficient for all the purposes of the pre- Ogden
sent investigation, and its general accuracy is not contested Saunders
by either side.
From the very terms of the definition, it results incontestibly, that the .contract is the bole act of the parties, and depends wholly on their will. The same words, used by the
same parties, with the same objects in view, would be the
same contract, whether made upon a desert island, in London,
Cbnstantinople, or New-York. It would be the same contract, whether the law of the place where the contract was
made, recognised its validity, and'frnished remedies to enforce its performance, or prohibited the contract, and withheld all remedy for its violation.
.The lauguage of the constitution plainly supposeh that the
obligationof a contract is something not wholly depending
upon the will of the parties. It incontestibly supposes the
obligation to be something which attaches to, and lays hold
of the contract, and which, by some superior external power, regulates and controls the conduct of the parties in relation to the contract; it evidently supposes that superior external power to rest in the will of the legislature.

What, then, is the obligation ofcontracts, within the meaning of the constitution 9 From what source does that obligation arise 9
The learned Chief Justice, in delivering the opinion
of the Court in Sturges v. Crozomnshield,after having defined
a contract to be ' an agreement wherein a party undertakes
to do, or not to do, a particular thing," proceeds to define
the-obligation of the contract in these words •".the law hinds
him "to perform his engagement, and this.is, of course, thr
obligation of the contract."
The Institutes, lib. 3. tit. 4. (Cooper's translation,) says,
91an obligation is the chain of the law, by which we are
necessarily bound to make some payment, according to the
law of the land."
Pothier,in his treatise concerning obligations, in speak
ing of the obligation of contracts, calls it "mnculum legis,'"
the chain of the law. Paley, p. 56. says, "to be obliged, r

318

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1827.
N

Ogden

to be urged by a viol.ent motive, resulting from the command of another." From these authorities, and many more
might be cited, it may be fairly concluded, that the obliga-

V.

Saunders. tion of the contract consists in the pozver and ejiracy of the
law which applies to, and enforces performance of the contracts, or the payment ofan equivalent for non-performance.
The obligation does not inhere, and subsist in the contract
itself, propno vtgore, but in the law applicable to the contract. This is the sense, I think, in which the constitution
uses the term "obligatiorr."
From what law, and how, is this obligation derived.
within the meaning of the constitution ? Even if it be admitted that the moral law necessarily attaches to the agreement, that would not bring it within the meaning of the constitution. Moral obligations are those arising from the admonitiont of conscience and accountability to th Supreme
Being. No human.lawgiver can impair them. They are
entirely foreign from the purposes of the constitution. The
contitution evidently contemplates an. obligation which
might be impaired by.a law of the State, if not prohibited
by the constitution.
It is argued, that the obligation of contracts is founded in,
and derived from, general and universal law; that, by these
laws, the obligation of contracts is co-extensive with the duty
oflearformance, and, indeed, the same thing; that the obligairon is not derived from,,nor depends upon, the civil or municipal laws of the Stat6e; and that this general universal duty,
or obligation, is what the constitution intends to.guard and
protect against the unjust encroachments of State legislation.
In support of this doctrine, it is said, that no State, perhaps,
ever declared by statute or positive law that contracts shall
be obligatory; but that all States, assuming the pIre-existbnce
of the olbligation of contracts, have only superadded, by muicipal law, the means of carrying the pre-existing obligat.
tioi into-effect.
This argument struck me, aLirst, with great force; hut,
upon reflection, I am convinced itis more speeious than solid. If it were adwnitted, that, in an enlarged and vry
general sense, obligations have their foundation in natural.
nr what is called, in the arguiment. an ,ersal law: that tln

OF THE UITED STATES.

319

1827.
natural obligation. is, in the general, assumed by States as
'.Anot
have
they
pre-existing, and, upon this assumption,
Ogden
thought it necessary to pass- declaratory laws in affirmance
of the principleu of universal -law yet nothing favourable Saunders.
to the argument can result from these admissions, unless it
be further admitted, or proved, that a State has no authority to regulate, alter, or in any wise control, the operation
of this universal law within the State, by its own peculiw
municipal enactions. This xisnot admitted, and, I think.
cannot be proved.
I admit that men have, by the laws of nature, the right of
acquiring, and possessing property, and the right of contracting engagements. I admit, that these natural rights
have their correspondent natural obligations. I admit, that
in a state of nature, when men have not submitted themselves to the controlling authority of civil governinent, the
natural obligation of contracts is co-extensive wih the duty
of performance. This natural obligation is founded solely
in the principles of natural or universal law. What is this
natural obligation 9 All writers who treat on the subject of
obligations, agree, that it consists in the right of the one
party. to demand from the other party what is due; and if
it be withheld, in his right, and supposed capacity to enforce
performance, or to take an equivalent for non-performance,
by his own power. This natural obligation exists among
sovereign and independent States and nations, and amongst
men, in a State of natur.6who have no common superior,
and-over whom none claim, or can exercise, a controlling
legislative authority,
But when men form a social compact, and organize a
civil government, they necessarily surrender the regulation
and control of these natural rights and obligations into the
hands of the government. Admitting it, then, to be true,
that, in general, men derive the right of private property,
and of contracting engagements, from the principles of natural, universal law; admiUing that these rights are, in the
general, nof derived from, or created by society, but are
brought into it, and that no express, declaratory, municipal
law, be necessary for their creation or recognition, yet, it
is equally true. that these rights, and the obliiationq resilt-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1g27.
.
Ogden
V.

lng frbm them, are subject to- be regulated, modified, and,
sometimes, absolutely restrained, by the positive enactioris
of municipal law. I think it incontestibly true,. that th&

Saunders. natural obligation of private contracts between individuals
in society, ceases, and is converted into a ctvil obligation,
by the very act of surrendering the right and power of enforcing performance. into the hands of the government. The
right and power of enforcingperformance exists, as I think
all must admit, only in the law of the land, and the obligation resulting from this condition is a civil obligation.
As, in a state of nature, the natural obligation of a contract consists in the right and potential capacity of the individual to. take, or enforce the delivery of the thing due to
him by the contract, or its equivalent, so, in the sqcial state,
the obligation of a contract consists in the efficAcy of the
civil law, which attaches to the contract, and enforces its
performance, or gives an equivalent in lieu of performance.
From these principles it seems to result as a necessary corollary, that the obligation of a contract made within a
sovereign State, must be precisely that allowed by the law
of the State, and none other. I say allowed, because, if
there be nothing in the municipal law to the contrary, the
civil obligation being, by the very nature of government,
substituted for, and put in the place of, natural obligation,
would be co-extensive with it, but if by positive enac ions,
the civil obligation is regulated and modified so as, that it
does not correspond with the natural obligation, it is plain
the extent of the obligation must depend wholly upon
the municipal law. If the positive law of the State declares the contract shall have no obligation. it can have
no obligation, whatever may be the principles of natural
law in relation to such a contract. This doctrine has
been held and mintained by all States and nations.
The power of'controlling, modifying, and even of taking
away, all obligation from such contracts as, independent of positive enactiofis to .the contrary, would have
been obligatory, has. been exercised by all independent sovereigns; and it has been -uiversally held,. that the -Courts
of one sovereign will, upon prihciples -of comity and common justice, enforce contractw made within the dominions
of another sovereign, so far as thy were obligatory by the

OF THE UNITED STATEb.
law of the country where made. but no instance is recol- 1827.
lected, and none is believed to exist, where the Courts of
oqe sovereign have held a contract, made within the domi- Ogden
V.
nions of another, obligatory against, or beyond the obliga. Saunders.
tion assigned to it by the municipal law of its proper country. As a general proposition of Jaw, it cannot be maintained, that the obligation of contracts depends upon, and
is derived from. universal law, independent of, and against,
the civil law ofthe State in which they are made. In relation
to the States of this Union, I am persuaded, thai the position
that the obligation of-contracts is derived from universal law,
urged by the learned counsel in argument, with great force,
has been stated' bythem much too broadly. If true, the
States can hiave no control over contracts. If it be true
that the "obligation of contracts," within the meaning of
the constitution, is derived solely from general and universal law, .iadependent of the laws of the State, then it
must follow, that all contracts made in the same or similar
terms, must, whenever, or wherever made, bave the same
obligation. If this universal natural obligation is that in-.
tended by the constitution, as it is the same, not only pvery
where, but at all times, it must follow, that every description
of contract which could be enforced, at any time or place,
upon the principles of universal law, must, necessarily, be
enforced at all other times, and in every State, upon the
same principles, in despite of any positive law of the State
to the contrary.
The arguments, based on the notion of the obligation of
universal law, if adopted, would deprive the States of all
power-of legislation upon the subject of contracts, .other
than merely furnishing the remedies or 'means of carrying
this obligation of universal law into effect. I cannot believe that such consequences were intended to be produced
by the constitution.
I conclude, that, so far as relates to private contracts between individual and individual, it is -the civil obligation of
contracts; that obligation which is recognised by, and results from, the law of the State in which the contract is
made, which is within the meaningof t- constitntion. If
41
VOL. XII.

tASES N THE SUPREME COURt

so, it follows, that the States have, since the adoption of thL
18927
t -v~ constitution, the authority to prescribe and declare, by their
Ogaen laws, prospectively, what shall be the obligation of all conSaunders. tracts made within them. Such a power seems to be almosi
indispensable to the very existence of the States, and is necessary to the safety and welfare of the people. The whole
frame and theory of the constitution seems to favour this
construction. The States were in the full enjoyment anl
exercise of all the powers of legislation on the subject of
contracts, before the adoption of the constitution. The
people of the States, in that instrument, transfer to, and
,vest in the Congress, no portion of this power, except
in the single instance of the authority given to pass uniform
laws on the stjct of bankruptcies throughout the United
States; to which may be added, such as results by necessary
implication in carrying the granted power into effect. The
whole of this power is left with the States, as the constitution found it, with the single exception, that in the exercise
of their general authority they shall pass no law "impairing the obligation of contracts."
The constructidn insisted upon by those who maintain
that prospective laws of the sort now under consideration
are unconstitutional, would, as I think, transform a special
limitation upon the general powers of the States, into a general restriction. It would convert,'by construction, the exception into a .general rule, against the best settled rules of
construction. The people of the States, under every varifty of change of circumstances, must remain unalterably,
according to this construction, under the dominion of this
supposed universal law, and the obligations resulting from it.
Upon no acknowledged principle can a special exception,
out of a general authority, be extended by construction so
as to annihilate or embarrass the exercise of the general
aufhority. But, to obviate the force of this view of the
subject, the learned counsel admit, that the legislature of a
State has authority to provide by law what contracts shall
not be obligatory, and to declare that no remedy shall exist
for the enforcement of such as the legislative wisdom deems
in.iurous. They say, the obligation of a contract is coeval
-11)h its existence: that the mo.neni an areement is madp

OF THE UNITED STATES.
bhligation attaches to it; and they endeavour to maintain a 1827.
iiistinction between such laws as declare that certain con-. ,
tracts shall not be obligatory at all, and such as declare they Ogden
shall not be ob~i.gatory, or (what is the same thing in effect) Saunders.
shall be discharged, upon the happening of a future event.
The former, they say, were no contracts in contemplation
of law, were wholly forbidden, and, therefore, never obligatory; the latter were obligatory at their creation, and
that obligation is protected by the constitution from being
impaired by any future operation of the law.
This course of reasoning is ingenious and perplexing, but
I am greatly mistaken if it will not be found, upon txamtnation, to be unsatisfactory and inconclusive. If it were admitted, that, generally, the civil obligation of a contract
made in a State attaches to it when it is made, and that this
obligation, whatever it be, cannot be defeated by any effect
or operation of law, which does not attach to it at its creation, the admission would avail nothing. It is as well a maxim of political law, as of reason, that the whole must necessarily contain all the parts; and, consequently, a power competent to declare a contract shall have no obligation, must
necessarily be competent to declare it shall have only a conditional or qualified obligation.
If, as the argument admits, a contract never had any ob.
ligation, because the pre-existing law of the State, declaring
it should have none, attached to it at the moment of its creation, why will not a pre-exiuting law, declaring it shall have
only a qualified obligation, attach to it in like manner at the
moment of its creation 9 A law, declaring that a contract
shall hot-be enforced, upon the happening of a future event,
is ij law declaring the contract shall have only a qualified
or conditional obligation. If such Jaw. be passed before the
cooatactis made, does not the sanle attach.to it the moment
'it is made; and is not tfie obligation of the contract, -:#hatever may be its terms, qualified from the beginning by force
-ad operation of the existing law 9 If it is not,; then it
ivabsolute in despite of the Iaw. and the obligation does
hot result-from the'law of the land, but from some other law
The passingof a law declaring that a contract shall haye
"xo da fgafiqn orsball have obligation %,'rer.esv bo t ce25-,,!4

tASES IN THE SUPREME COUR[

1827.
Ogden

be/ bligatory in specified events, is but the exertion of the

~ sxme power. The difference exists, not in the character of

the power, but the degree of its txertion, and the manner of

Saunders. its operation.
In the case at bar, the contract was made in the State, and
the law of the State at the time it was made, in effect, provided that the obligation of the contract should not be absolute, but qualified by the condition that the party should
be discharged upon his becoming insolvent, and complying
with the requisitions of the ins6lvent law. This qualification attached to the contract, by law, the moment the contract was made, became inseparable from it, and travelled
with it through all its stages of existence, until the condition
was consummated by the final certificate of discharge.
It is argued that this cannot be so, because the contract
would be enforced, an'd must necessarily be enforced, in
other States, where no such insolvent law exists. This argument is founded upon a misapprehension of the nature of
the qualification itself. It is in nature of a condition subsequent, annexed by operation of law to the contract at the
moment of its creation.
The condition is, that upon the happening of all the
events contemplated by the law, and upon their verification,
in the manner'prescribed by the law itself, by the constituted authorities of the State, the contract shall not thereafter
be obligatory. Unless all these take place, unless the
discharge is actually obtained within the State, according to
its laws, the contingency has not happened, and the contract
remains obligatory, both in the State aid elsewhere.
It has been often said, that the laws of a State in which a
contract is made, enterinto, and make part of the contract :
and some who have advocated the constitutionality of prospective laws of the character now under consideration.
have placed the question on that ground. The advocates
of the other side, availing themselves of the infirmity of this
argument, have answered triumphantly, "admitting this to
be so, the constitution is the supreme law ofevery State, and
must, therefore, upon the same principle, enter into every
contract. and overrule the local laws." My answer to this

OF THE UNITED STATES.
view of both sides of the question is, that the argument, and 1827.
theanswer to it, are equally destitute of truth.
Ogden
I have already shown that the contract is nothing but the
V.
agreement of the parties; and that if the parties. in making Saunder..
their agreement, use the same words, with the same object
in view, where there is no law, or where the law recognises
Ahe agreement, and furnishes remedies for its enforcement.
or where the law forbids, or withholds all remedy for the
-rforcement of the agreement. it is the very same contract
in all these predicaments. I have endeavnmed to show,
and I think successfully, that the uuigatiou I contracts, A"
the sense of the constitution. zonsists not in the contract itself, but in a superior external force, controlling the conduct
of the parties in relation to the contract; and that this superior external force is the law of the State, either tacitly u.
expressly recognising the contract, and furnishIng means
whereby it may.be enforced. It is this superior external
force, existing potentially, or actually applied, "which binds
a man to perform his engagements ;" which, according to
Justinian, is "the chain of the law, by which we are necessarily bound to make some payment-accordingto thec law
of the land;" and which, according to Paley, being "a violent motive, resulting from the command of another,"
obliges the party to perform his contrait. The law of the
State, although it constitutes the obligation of the contract,
is nopart of the contract itself; nor is the constitution either
a part of the contract, or the supreme law of the State, in
the sense in which the argument supposes. The constitution is the supreme law of the land upon all subjects upon
which it speaks. It is the sovereign will of the whole people. Whatever this sovereign will enjoins, or forbids, must
necessarily be supreme, and must counteract the subordinate
legislative will of the United States, And of the States.
But on subjgcts, in relation to which the sovereign will is
not declared, or fairly and necessarily implied,.the constitution cannot, with any semblance of truth, be sfid to. be the
supreme law. It could not; with any semblance of truth, be
said that the constitutibn of the United States is the supreme
law of any State in relation to the solemnities requisite for
conveying real estate, or the responsibilities or obligations

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.
\.a'Ogden
V.

Saunders.

consequent upon the use of certain words in such conveyance. The constitution contains- no law, no declaration of
the sovereign will, upon these subjects; and cannot, in the
nature of things, in relation to them, be the supreme law.
Even if it were true, then, that the law of a State in which a
contract is made, is part of the contract, it would, not be
true that the constitution would be part of the contract.
The constitution no where professes to give the law of
contracts, or to declare what shall or shall not be the
obligation of contracts. It evidently presupposes the existence of contracts bl the act of the parties, and the existence of their obligation, not by authority of the constitution,
but by authority of law; and the pre-existence of both the
contracts.and their obligation being thus supposed, the sovereign will is announced, that "no State shall .pass any law
impairing the obligation of contracts."
If it be once ascertained that a contract existed, and that
an obligation, general or qualified, of whatsoever kind, bad
once attached, or belonged to the contract, by law, then, and
not till then, does the supreme law speak; by declaring that
obligation shall not be impaired.
It is. admitted in argument, that statutes of frauds and
perjurier, statutes of usury, and. of limitation, are not
laws impairing the obligation of contracts. They are laws
operating prospectively upon. contracts thereafter made.
It is said, however, they do not apply, in principle, to this
case; because the statutes of frauds and perjuries apply only
to the remedies, and because, in that case, and under the
statutes of usury, Jhe contracts were void from- the beginning, were not recognised by' law as contracts, and had no
obligation, and that the statqtes of Jimitation create rules
of evidence only.
Althoughthese observations are true, they do not furnish
the true reason, norndeed, any reason,. why these laws, do
not impair the obligation of contracts. The trutevnd only
reason is, that they operate on contracts made after the passage of the laws. and not upon exisjihg contracts.- And
li~nce the Chief Justice very properly remarks, of 'bolh
usury laws,.and laws of limitation,;in delivering the opnion
in Sturger v. C, wmnAwt that if they should be.mae to

vF TfHE UNITED S'rAFEa.

1,827.
operate upon contracts already entered into. they would be
.- 'unconstitutional and void. If a statute of frauds and per- '
vgdpn
laws,
such
no
baving
formerly
State
a
in
V.
pass
juries should
purporting to operate upon existing contracts, as well as Saunders.
upon those made after its passage, could it be doubted, that
so far as the law applied to, and operated upon, existing
contracts, it would be a law "impairing the obligation of
Here, then, we have the true reason and princontracts '"
ciple of the constitution. The great principle intended to
be established by the constitution, was the inviolability of
the obligation of contracts, as the obligation existed and
was recognised by the laws in force at the time the contracts were made. It furnished to the legislatures of the
States a simple and obvious rule of justice, which, however
theretofore violated, should, by no means, be thereafter
violated, and whilst it leaves them at full liberty to legislate upon the subject of all future contracts, and assign to
them either no obligation, or such qualified obligation as,
in their opinion, may consist with sound pplicy, and the
good of the people, it prohibits -them from retrospecting
upon existing obligations, upon any pretext whatever. Whether the law' professes td apply to the contract itself, to fix
a rule of evidence, a rule of interpretation, or to regulate
'the remedy, it is equally within the true meaning of the
constitution, if it,in effect, impairs the obligation of existing contracts; and, in my opinion, is out of its true mean.
Ing, if the law is mad to operate on future contracts only.
I do not mean to say. that every 'alteration of the existing
remedies would impair the obligation of contracts; 'but I
do say, with great confidence, That a law taking away all remedl from existing contract , ivould be, manifestly, a lair
impairing the obligation of contracts. The moral obligation would remain, but the leg al, or civil obligation, would
be gone, if such a law should be permitted to operate. The
natural obligation would hP gone, because the laws forbid
the party to enforce perfirmance by his own power. On
the other hand, a great variety of instances may readily be
imagined, in which the legislature of a Stat; might alter,
modify, or repeal existing remedies, and enact others in
their stead without the slightest ground for a supposition

UASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.
.there

Ogden
V.
Saunders.

that the new law impaired the obligation of contracts. If
be intermediate cases of a more doubtful character, it
will be time enough to decide them when they arise.
It is argued, that as the clause declaring that " no State
shall pass any law impairing the obligation of contracts," is
associated in the same section of the constitution with the
prohibition to " coin money, emit bills of credit," or "make
any thing but- gold and silver coin a legal tender in payment of debts ;" and as these all evidently apply to legislation in reference to future, as well as existing contracts, and
operate prospectively, to prohibit the action of the law,
without regard to the time of its passage, the same construction should begiven to the clause under consideration.
This argument admits of several answers. First, as regards the prohibition to coin money, arid emit bills of credit.
The constitution had already conferred on Congress the
whole power of coining money, and regulating the current
coin. The grant of this power to Congress, and the prohibitions upon (ie States, evidently take away from the States
all power of legislation and action on the subject, and must,
of course, apply to the future action of law:, either then.
made, or to be made. Indeed, the language plainly indicates, that it is the act of " coining money," arid the act of
emitting bills of credit, which is forbidden, without any reference to the -time of passing, the law, whether before' or
after he adoption of the constitution. The other prohibition, to "make any thing but gold or silver coin a tender in
payment of debts," is but a member of thesame subject of
currency committed to the general government, and prohibited to the States. And the same remark applies to it already
made as to the other two. The prohibition is not, that no
State shall pass any law; but that even - if a law does exist
the "State shall not make any thing but gold and silver coin
alegal tender." The language plainly imports, that the prohited tender shall not be made a legal tender, whether a law
of the State exists or not. The whole subject of tender,
except in gold and silver, is withdrawn from the States.
These cases cannot, therefore. furnish a sound rule of interpretation for that clause which prohibits the States from
yassing Jaws "impairing.the obligation of contracts. This

OF THE UNITED $STATES.

329

1827.
clause relates to a subject confessedly left wholly with the
States, with a -single exception ; they relate to gubjects
V.
wholly withdrawn from the States, with the exception that Ogden
they may pass laws on the 'subject of tenderin gold and Saunders.
silver coin only.
The principle, that the astociation of one clause with
another of likekind, may aid in itsiconstruction, is deemed
sound, but I think it has been misapplied w the argument.
The principle applied to the immediate a'ssociates of the
words under consideration, is, I think, decisive of this ques.
tion. The immediate associates are the prohibitions to pass
bills of attainder, and ex post facto laws. The language
and order of the whole clause is, no State shall " pass any
bill of attainder, ex post facto law, or law impairing the
If the maxim noscitur a sociis,
obligation of contracts."
be applied to this case, there would seem to be an end of
the question. The two former members of the clause undeniably prohibit retroactive legislation upon the existing
state of. things, at the passage of the prohibited laws. The
associated idea is, that the latter member of the same clause
should have a similar effect upon the subject matter to which
it relates. I suppose this was -the understanding of the
American people when they adopted the constitution. I
am justified in this supposition by the contemporary construction given to the whole of this clause by that justly
celebrated work, styled the Federalist, written at the time,
for the purpose of recommending the constitution- to the
favour and acceptance of the people. In N.-. 44. (p. 281.)
commenting upon this very clause, and all its members, the
following observations are made. "Bills of attainder, ex
postfacto laws, and laws impairing the obligation of contracts, are contrary to the first principles of the social compact, and to every principle of sound legislation. The two
tbrmer are expressly prohibited by the declarations prefixed
to some of therState constitutions, and all of them are pro.
hibited by the spirit and scope of these fundamental charters."
Did the American Veople believe, could they believe,
theseheavy denunciations were levelled against laws which
49
VoL. XII.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
fairly prescribed, and plainly pointed out, to the people, rules
Sfor their future conduct; and the rights, duties and 9bligaOgden tions, growing out of their future words or actions 7 They
1827.
V.

Saunders. must have understood, that these denunciations werejust, as
regarded bills of attainder, and ex post factc, laws, because
they were exercises of arbitrary power, perverting the justice and order of existing things b) the reflex action of
these laws. And would they notlnaturally and necessarily
conclude,'the denunciations were equally just as regarded
laws passed to impair the obligation of existing contracts.
for theame reason 9
The writer proceeds. "Our own experience has taught
us, nevertheless, that additional fences against these dangers
ought n6t to be omitted. Very properly, therefore, have
the Convention added this constitutional bulwark in favour
of personal .security and private rights; and I am much
-deceived, if they have not, in so doing, as faithfully consulted the genuine sentiments, -as the undoubted interests of
their constituents. The sober people of America are weary
of the fluctuating policy which has directed the public councils. They have seen with regret, and with indignation,
that sudden changes, and. legisldtive interferences, incases
affecting'personal rights, become jobs in the hands of enterprising and influential speculators , and snares to the more
industrious and less informed part of the community. They
havedseen, too, that one legislative interference is but the
link of a long chain of repetitions;- every subsequent interference being naturally produced by the effects of the preceding. They very rightly infer, therefore, that some thorough reform is wanting, which will banish speculations on
public measures, inspire a general prudence and industry, and give a regular course to the business of society."
I cannot understand this language otherwise than as putling bills of attainder, ex post facto laws, and laws impairing
the 6bligqtion of contracts, all upon the same footing, and
deprecating them all for the. same- cause. The language
shows, clearly, that the whole clause was understood at the
time of the adoption of the constihition to have been introthe very same spirit,, and for
duced into the instrumnent -in
4he ver~y same purpose, namely, for the protection of per-

OF THE UNITED -STATES.

1827.
sonal security and of private rights. The language repels
the idea, that the member of the clause immediately under
consideration was introduced into the constitution upon any Ogden
grand principle of national policy, independent of the pro- Saunders.
taction of private rights, so far as such an idea can be repelled, by the total omission to suggest any such wdependent
grand principle of national policy, and by placing it upon
totally different ground.
It prves that the sages who formed and rleeommended the
constitution to the favour and adoption of the American
people, did not consider the protection ofprivate nghts, more
than the protection of personal security, as too insignificant
for their serious regard, as wasurged with great earnestness
in argument. In my judgmentthe language of theauthors
of the Federalist proves that they,.at least, understogd, that
the protection of personal security, and of.private rights,
from the despotic and iniquitous operation of retrospective
legislation, was, itself, and alone, the grand principle intended to be established. It was a priciple of the utmost
importance to a free people, about to establish a national
government, "to establish justice," and, "to ecure to
themselves and their posterity the blessings of liberty."
This prfnciple is, I think, fully and completely sustained by
the construction of the constitution which I have-endeavoured to maintain.
1 my judgment, the most natural and obvious import of
the words themselves, prohibiting the passing of laws "impairing the obligation of contracts ;1 the natural association

of that member of the clause with the two immediately preceding members of the same clause, forbidding the passing
of "bills of attainder," and " ex postfacto laws ;" the consecutive order df the several members of the 0lause; the
manifest purposes and objects for which the whole clause
was introduced into the constitution,. and' the cotemporary
exposition of the whole clause, all warrant.the.conclusion,
that a State has authority, since the adoption of the constitution, to-pass a law, whereby a contract made within the
State, after the pasage of the law, may be discharged, 'upon
the party obtaining a certificate of discharge, a§ an insolvent.n the manner prescribed by the law of the State.

3

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827,
v
'Ogden
V,

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL. It is well known that t116
Court has been divided in opinion on this case. Three Judgeg,
Mr, Justice DUVALL, Mr. Justice STony, and myself, do not

Saunders. concur in the judgment which has been pronounced. We
have taken a diffierent view of the very interesting question which has been discussed with so much talent, as
well as labour, at the bar, and I am directed to state the
course of reasoning on which we have formed the opinion
that the discharge pleaded by the defendant is no bar to the
action.
Thie single question for consideration) is, whether the act
of the State ofNew-York is consistent with or repugnant to
the constitution of the United States 9
This Court has so often expressed the sentiments of profound and respectful reverence with which it approaches
questions of this character, as to make it unnecessary now to
say more than that, if it be right that the power of presering the constitutiob from legislative infraction, should reside
any where, it cannot be wrong, it must be right, that tho.
whom the delicate and important duty is conferred should
perform it according to their best judgment.
Much, too, has been sald concerning the principles of construction which ought to be applied to the constitution of the
United States.
On this subject, also, the Court has taken such frequent
occasion'to declare its opinion, as to make it unnecessary, at
least, to enter again into an elaborate discussion of it. To
say that the intention of the instrument must prevail; that
this intention must be collected from its words, that its
words are to be understood in that sense in which they are
generally used by those for whom the instrument was intended ; that its provisions are neither to be restricted into
insignificance, nor extended to objects not comprehended in
them, nortcontemplated by its framers ;-is to repeat what
has been already said more at large, and is all that can be
necessary
As preliminary to a more particular investigation of the
claue in the constitution, on whiich the case now under
consideration is supposed to depend, it may be proper to ir.-

OF THE UNITED STATES.
quire how far if is affected by the former decisions of tlis 1827.
Court.
In Sturges v. Crowntnshzeid, it was determined, that an Ogden
V.
act which discharged the debtor from a contract en- Saunders.
tered into previous to its passage, was repugnant to the
constitution. The reasoning which conducted the Court
to that conclusion might, perhaps, conduct it farther, and
with that reasoning, (for myself alone this expression is used,)
I have never yet seen cause to be dissatisfied. But that decision is not supposed to be a precedent for Ogden v. Saunders, because the two cases differ from each other in a material fact; and it is a generar rule, expressly recognised by
the Court in Sturges v. Crownmsheld, that the positive authority of a decision is co-extensive only with the facts on
which it is made. In Sturges v Crowninshzeld, the law acted on a contract which was made before its passage, in this
casethe contract was entered into after the passage ofthelaw
In MNeil v. M'.lillan, the contract, though stibsequent
to the passage of the act, was made in a different State, by
persons residing in that State, and, consequently, Witbout
any view to the law, the benefit of which was claimed by
the debtor.
The Farmers' and Mechancs' Bank of Pennsyfvania v
Smith differed from Sturges v. Ctownrnsheld only in this,
that the plaintiff and defendant were both residents of the
State in which the law was enacted, and in which it was applied. The Court was of opinion that this difference was
unimportant.
It has then been decided, that an act which discharges the
debtor from pre-existing contracts is void, and that an act
which operates on future contracts is inapplicable to a contract made in a different State, at whatever time it may have
been entered into.
Neither of these decisions comprehends the question now
presented to the Court. It is, consequently, open for discussion.
The provision of the constitution is, that "no State shall
pass any law" "impairing the obligation of contracts." The
plaintiff in error contends that this provision inhibits the
passage of retrospective laws onlv-of such as act on con-

334
'

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

tracts in existence at their passage. The d6fendant in er1827
,~ror maintains that it comprehends all future laws, whether
,,Ogden prospective or retrospective, and withdraWs every tontract
Saunders. from State legislation, the. obligation -of which has becoie
complete.
That there is an essential difference in principle between
laws which act on past, and those which act on future contracts; that those of the first description can. seldo-m be justified, while those of the last are proper subjects of ordinary
legislative discretion, must be admitted. A constitutional
restriction, therefore, on the power to pass laws of the one
class, may very well consist with entire legislative freedom
respecting those of the other. Yet, when we coisider
the nature of our Union; that it is intended to- make us,
in a great measure, one people, as to commercial objects, that, so far as respects the intercommunication of'
individuals, the lines of separation between States are, in
many respects, obliterated, it would not be matter of surprise, if, on the delicate subject of contracts once formed,
the interference of State legislation should be greatly
abridged, or entirely forbidden. In the nature of the provision, then, there seems to be nothing which ought to influence our construction of the.words ; and, in making that
construction, the whole clause, -which consists of a single
sentence, is to be taken togetbr, and the intention is to be
collected from the whole.
The first paragraph of the tenth section of the first article,
which comprehends the provision under consideration, contains an enumeration of those cases in which'the action of
the State legislature is entirely prohibited. The second
enumerates those in which the prohibition is modified. The
first.paragraph, consisting of total prohibitions, comprehends
two classes of powers. Those of the first are political and
general in their nature, being an exercise of sovereignty
without affecting the rights of individuals. These are, the
powers "to enter into any treaty, alliance, or confederation,
grant letters of marque or reprisalj coin money, emit bills
df credit."
The second class of prohibited laws comprehends those
whose operation consists in their action on individuals.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1027.
These are,laws which make any thing but gold and silver coin
a tender m payment of debts, bills of attainder, ex post facto
laws, or laws impairing the obligation of contracts, or which Ogden
V.
Saunders.
grant any title of nobility.
In all these cases, whether the thing prohibited be the exercise of mere political power, or legislative action on individuals, the prohibition is complete and total. There-is no
exception from it. Legislation of every description is com-prehended within it. A State is as entirely forbidden to
pass laws impairing the obligation of contracts, as to make
treaties, or coin money. The question recurs, what is a
law impairing the obligation of contracts 9
In solving this question, all the acumen which controversy
can give.to the human mind, has been employed in scanning
the whole sentence, and every word of it. Arguments have
been drawn from the context, and from the particular terms
in which the prohibition is expressed, for the purpose, on
the one part, of showing its application to all laws which act
upon contracts, whether prospectively or retrospectively,
and, on the other, of limiting it to laws which act on contracts
previously formed.
The first impression which the words make on the mind,
would probably be, that the prohibition was intended to be
general. A contract is commonly understood to be the
agreement of the parties; and, if it be not illegal, to bind
them to the extent of their stipulations. It requires reflection, it requires some intellectual effort, to efface this impression, and to come to the conclusion, that the words
contract and obligation, as used in the constitution, are not
used in this sense. If, however, the result of this mental
effort, fairly made, be the correction of this impression, it
ought to be corrected.
So much of this prohibition as restrains the power of the
States to punish offenders in criminal cases, the prohibition
to pass bills of attainder and ex post facto laws, is, in its
very terms, confined to pre-existing cases. A bill of attainder can be only for crimes already committed; and a law is
not ex postfacto, unless it looks back to an act done before
its passage. Language is incapable of expressing, in plainer
terms, that the mind of the Convention was directed to re

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.
'ov-%

Ogden
Vo

troacfivelegislation. The thing forbidden is retroaction.
But that part of the clause which relates to the civil transactions of individuals, is expressed in more general terms;

Saunders. in terms which comprehend, in their ordlinary signification,
cases which occur after, as well as those which occur before,
the passage of the act. It forbids a State to make any
thing but gold and silver coin a tender in payment of debts,
or to pass any law impairing the obligation of contracts.
These prohibitions relate to kindred subjects. They contemplate legislative interference 'with private rights, and restrain that interference. In construing that part of the
clause which respects tender laws, a distinction has never
been attempted between debts existing at the time the law
may be passed, and debts afterwards created. The prohibition has been considered as total; and yet the difference
in principle between making property a tender in payment
-of debts, contracted after the passage of the act, and discharging those debts withont payment, or by the surrender
of property, between an absolute right to tender in payment, and a contingent right to tender in payment, or in discharge of the debt, is not clearly discernible. Nor is the
difference in language so obvious, as to denote plainly a lfference of iitention in the framers. of the instrument. "No
State sliall makt any thing but gold and silver coin a tender
in Payment of dWts. 1" Does the word " d eb t mean, generally, those dne when the law applies to the case, or is It
-limited to debts due at the passage of the act ? The same
train of riasonirig whicli would confine the subsequent
words to contracts existing at the passage of the law, would
go far in confining hege words to debts existing at tlqt time.
Yet, this distiliction has never, weibelieve, occurred to any
person. How soon it may occur is not for us to determine.
We think it would, unquestionably, defeat the ohject of the
clause.
The botinse for the plaintiff insist,.tiat the word " im.
pairing," in the present tense, limits the signification of the
provision to the operation of the act at-the time of its passage; thatno law can be accurately said to impaii" the obllgation of coitracts, unless the contracts exist at the time.

U1 THE UNITIED STATEs,.
'he law cannot impair what does not exist. It cannot act 1827.
on nonentities.
There might be weight in this argument, if the prohibited Ogden
V.
laws were such only as operated of themselves, and imme- Saunders.
diately on the contract. But insolvent laws -are to operaLe on a future, contingent, unforeseen' event. The time
to which the word " impairing" applies, is not the time of
the passage of the act, but of its action on the contract.
That is, the time present in.contemplation of the prohibition. The law, at its passage, has no effect whatever on the
contract. Thus, if a ilote be given in New-York for the
payment of money, and the debtor removes ,ut of that
State, into Connecticut, and becomes insolvent, it is not
pretended that his debt can be discharged by the law of
New-York. Consequently, that law did not operate on the
contract at its formation. When, then, does its operation
commence 9 We answer, when it is applied to the contract.
Then, if ever, and not tnl then, it acts on the contract, and
becomes a law impairing its obligation. Were its constitutionality, with respect to previous contracts, to be admitted,
it would not impair their obligation until an insolvency
should take place, and a certificate of discharge be granted.
Till these events occur, its impairing, faculty is suspended.
A law, then, of this description, if it derogates from the
obligation of a contract, when applied to it, is, grammatically Qpeaking, as much a law impairing that obligation,
though made previous to its formation, as if made subse,
quently.
A question of more difficulty has been pressed with great
earnestness, It is, what is the oiginal obligation of a contract, made af-er the passage' of such an act as the insolvent
law of New-York? Is it unconditional to performthe very
thing stipulated, or is the condition, implied, that, in the
event of insolvency, the contract shall be satisfied by the
surrender of property 9 The original obligation, Whatever
that may be, must be preserved by the constitution. Any
law which lessens, must impair it.
All admit, that the constitution refers to, and preserves,
the legal, not the morallobligatioa of a contract; Obliga4.3
VorL. XII.

339

tions purely moral, are to be enforced by the operation of
internal and invisible agents, not by the agency of human
laws. The restraints imposed on States by the constitution,
Ogden
V.
Saunders. are intended for those objects which would, if not restrained, be the subject of State legislation. What, then, was
the original legal obligation of the contract now under the
consideration of the Court?
The plaintiff insists,-that the law enters into the contract
so completely as to become a constituent part of it. That
it is to be construed as if it contained an express stipulation
to be discharged, should the debtor become insolvent, by
the surrender of all his property for the benefit of his creditors, in pursuance of the act of the legislature.
,This is, unquestionably, pressing the argument very far;
and the establishment of the principle leads inevitably to
consequences which would affect society deeply and seriously.
Had an express condition been inserted in the contract,
declaring that the debtor might be discharged from it at any
time by surrendering all his property to his creditors, this
condition would have bound the creditor. It would have
constituted the obligation of his contract, and a legislative
act annulling the condition would impair the contract. Such
an act would, as is admitted by all, be unconstitutional, because it operates on pre-existing agreements. If a law authorizing debtors to discharge themselves from their debts
by surrendering'their property, enters into the contract, and
forms a part of it, if it is equivalent to a stipulation between
the parties, no repeal of the law can affect contracts made
during its existence. The effort to give it that effect would
impair their obligation. The counsel for the plaintiff perceive, and avow this consequence, in effect, when they
contend, that to deny the operation of the law on the contract under consideration, is to impair its obligation. Are
gentlemen prepared to say, that an insolvent law, once enacted, must,' to a considerable extent, be permanent ? That
the legislature is incapable of varying it so far as respects
existing contracts9
So, too, if one of the conditions of an obligation for the
payment of money be. that on the insolvency of the obri1827.

,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES.

389

gor, or on any event agreed on by the parties, he should be
1827.
at liberty to discharge it by the tender of all, or part of his
property, no question could exist respecting the validity of Ogden
y.
the contract, or respecting its security from legislative in- Saunders,
terference. If it should be determined, that a law authorizing the same tender, on the same contingency, enters into,
and forms a part of the contract, then, a tender law, though
expressly forbidden, with an obvious view to its prospective,
as well as retrospective operation, would, by becoming the
contract of the parties, subject all contracts made after its
passage to its control. If it be said, that such a law would
be obviously unconstitutional and void, and, therefore, could
not be a constituent part of the contract, we answer, thatif
the insolvent law be unconstitutional, it is equally void, and
equally incapable of becoming, by mere implication, a part
of the contract. The plainness of the repugnancy does
not change the question. That may be very clear to one
intellect, which is far from being so to another. The law
now under consideration is, in the opinion of one party,
clearly consistent with the constitution, and, in the opinion
of the other, as clearly repugnant to it. We do not admit
the correctness of that reasoning which would settle this
question by introducing into the contract a stipulation not
admitted by the parties.
This idea admits of being pressed still farther. If one
law enters into all subsequent contracts, so'does every other
law which relates to the subject. A legislative act, then,
declaring that all contracts should be subject to legislative
control, and should-be discharged as the legislature might
prescribe, would become a component part of every contract, and be one of its conditions. Thus, one of the'most
important features in the constitution of the United States,
one which the state of the times most urgently required,
one on which the good and the wise reposed confidently for
securing the prosperity and harmony of our citizens, would
lie prostratd, and be construed into an inanimate, inoperative, unmeaning clause.
Gentlemen are struck with 'the enormity of this result,
and deny that their principle leads to it. They distinguish,
,i attempt to distinguish. between the incorporation of -,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.
u--.-

general law, such as has been stated, and the incorporation
of a particular law. such as the insolvent law of New-York,

But will reason sustain this distinction?
Saunders. They say, that men cannot be supposed to agree to so indefinite an article as. such a general law would be, but may
well be supposed to agree to an article, reasonable in itself,
and the full extent of which is understood.
But the principle contended for does not make'the insertion of this new term or condition into the contract, to depend
upon its reasonableness. It is -inserted because the legislature has so enacted. If the enactment of the legislature
becomes a condition of the contract because it is an enactment, then it is a high prerogative, indeed, to decide, that
one enactment shall enter the contract, while another, prosceeding from the same authority, shall be excluded from it.
The counsel for -theplaintiff illustrates and supports this
-position by several legal principles, and by some decisions
of this Court, which have.been relied on as being applicable
to it.
The first case put is, interest on a bond payable on demand, which does not stipulate interest. This, he says, is
not a part of the remedy, but a new term in the contract.
Let the correctness of this averment be tried by the
course of iroceeding in such cases.
The failure to pay, according to stipulation, is a breach of
the contract, and the means used to enforce it constitute the
remedy which society affords the injured party. If the obligation contains a penalty, this remedy is universaily so regulated that the judgment shall be entered for the penalty, to
be discharged by the payment of the principal and interest.
But the -case on Which. counsel has reasoned is a single bill.
In this *case,the party who has broken his contract is liable
for damages. The proceeding to obtain those damages is
as much a part of the remedy as the proceeding to obtain
the debt. They are claimed in the same declaration, and
as being distinct from each other. The damages must be
assessed by a jury, whereas, if interest formed a part of the
debt, it would be recovered as part of it. The declaration
would claim it as a part of the debt; and yet, if a suitor
were to declare on such a bond as containing this new term
Ogden
V.

into the contract.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
for the payment of interest, he would not be permitted to 1827.
give a bond in evidence in which this supposed term was not %
written, Any law regulating the proceedings of Courts on Ogden
V.
this subject, would be a law regulating the remedy.
Saunders.
The liability of the drawer of a bill of exchange, stands
upon the same principle with every other implied contract. Hehas received the money of the person in whose
favour the bill is drawn, and promises that it shall be
returned by the drawee. If the drawee fail to pay the bill',
then the promise of the drawer is broken, and for this breach
of contract he is liable. The same -principle applies to
the endorser. His contract is not written, but his name is
evidence of his promise that the bill shall be paid, and of
his having received value for it. He is, in effect, a new
drawer, and has made a new contract. The law does not
require that this contract shall be in writing; and, in determining what evidence shall be sufficient ta -prove it, does
not introduce new conditions not actually made by the parties. The same reasoning applies to the principle which
requires notice. The original contract -is not written at
large. It is founded on the acts of the parties, and its extent ismeasured by those acts. A. draws on B. in favour
of C., for value received. The bill is evidence that he has
received value, and has promi ed that it shallbe paid. He has
funds in the hands of the drawer, and has a right to expect
that his promise will be performed. He has, also, a right to
expect notice of its non-performance, because his conduct
may be materAlly influenced by this, failure of the drawee.
He ought to ave notice that his bill is disgraced, because
his notice enables him to take measures for his own security. It is reasonable that he should stipulate for this notice,
and the law presumes that he did stipulate for it.
A great mass of human transactions depends upon implied
contracts ; upon contracts which are not written, but which
grow out of the acts of the parties. In such cases, the parties are supposed to have-made those stipulations, which, as
honest, fair, and just men, they ought to have made. When
the law assumes that theyhave made these stipulations, it
does not vary their contract, or introduce new terms into it,
but declares that certain acts, unexplained by compact, im-

342

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

18127.
%.- -Ogden
V.

pose certain duties, and that the parties had stipulated' for
their performance. The differenc is obvious between this
and the introduction of a new condition into a contract

Saunders. drawn out in writing, in which the parties have expressed
every thing that is to be done by either.
The usage of banks, by which days of grace are alloweduo
notes payable and negotiable in bank, is of the same character. Days of grace, from their very term, originate partly
in convenience, and partly in the indulgence of the creditor.
By the terms of the note, the debtor has to the last hour of the
day on which it becomes payable, to comply 'Nith it; and it
would often be inconvenient to take any steps after the close
6f day. It is often convenient to postpone subsequent proceedings till the next day. Usage has extended this time of
grace generally tQ three days, and in some banks to four.
This usage is made a part of the contract, not by the interference of the legislature, but by the act of the parties. The
case cited from 9 Wheat. Rep. 581. is a note discounted in
bank. In all such cases thebank receives, and the makerofthe
note pays, interest for the day s of grace. This would be illegal and usurious, if the money was not lent for these additional days. The extent of the loan,, therefore, is regulated
by the act of the parties, and this part of the contract is
founded on their act. Since, by contract, th maker is not
liable for his note until the days of grace are expired, he has
not brpken his contract until they expire. The duty of
giving notice to the endorser of his failure, does not arise,
until the failure has taken place, and, conselciiently; the promile of the bank to give such notied is performed, if it be
given when the event has happened.
The case of the Bank 6f Columbta v. Oakley, (4 Wheat. Rep.
235.) was one in which the legislature had given a summary re.
rnedy to the bank for a broken contract, and had placed that
remedy in the hands of the bank itself. The case did not turn
on the question whether the law of Maryland was introduced
into the contract, but whether a party might not, by his own
conduct, renounce his claim to the trial by jury in a particular
case. The Court likened it to submissions to arbitration, and
to stipulation and forthcommnz bonds. The principle settled

OF THE UIITED STATES.
in that case is, that a party may renounce -abenefit, and that 18S7.
%.A-.W4W
Oakley had exercised this right.
Ogden
The cases from Strage and East turn upon a principle,
which is generally recognised, but which is entirely distinct Saunders.
from that which they are cited to support. It is, that a man
who is discharged by the tribunals of his own country, acting
under its laws, may plead that discharge in any other country. The prihciple is, that laws act upon a contract, not
that they enter into it, and become a stipulation of the parties. Society affords a remedy for breaches of contract. If
that remedy has been applied, the claim to it is extinguished.
The external action of law upon contracts, by administering
the remedy for their breach, or otherwise, is. the usual exercise of legislative power. The interference with those contracts, by introducing conditions into them not agreed to by
the parties, would be a very unusual and a very extraordinary exercise of the legislative power, which ought'not to be
gratuitously attributed to laws that do not profess to claim it.
If the law becomes a part -of the contract, change of place
woulf not expunge the condition. A contract maue 1A NewYoilk would be the same in any other State as in NewYork, and would still retain the stipulation originally introduced into it, that the debtor should lUe discharged by the
surrender of his estate.
It is not; we think, true, that contracts are entered into in
contemplation of the insolvency of the obligor. Thej are
framed with the expectation that they will be literally performed. Insolvency is undoubtedly a casualty which is possible, but is never expected. In the ordinary course of human transactions, if even suspected, provision is made for it,
by taking security against it. When it comes unlooked for,
it would be entirely contrary to reason to consider it as a part
of the contract.
We have, then, no hesitation in saying that, howeifer law
may act upon contracts, it does not enter into them, and become a part of the agreement. The effect of such a principle would be a mischievous abridgment of legislative power over subjects within the proper jurisdiction of States,
by arresting their power to repeal or modify such laws with
respect to existing contracts.

:344
1827.
.

Ogden
V.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
But, although the argument is not sustainable in this form,
it assumes another, inwhich it is more plausible. Contract,
it is said, being the creature of society, derives its obligation

Saunders. from the law; and, although the law may not enter into the
agireement so as to form a constituent part of it, still it acts
externally upon the contract, and determines how far the
principle of coercion shall be. applied to it, and 'this being
universally understood, no individual can complain justly of
its application to himself, in a case where it was known
when the contract was formed.
This argument has been illustrated by references to the
statutes of frauds, of usury, and of limitations. The construction of the words in the constitution, respecting contracts, for which the defendants contend, would, it has been
said, withdraw all these subjects from State legislation. The
acknowledgment, that they remain within it, is urged as an
admission, that contract is not withdrawn by the constitution,
but remains under State control, subject to this restriction
only, that no law shall be passed impairing the obligation of
contracts in existence at its passage.
The defendants maintain that an error lies at the very
foundation of this argument. It assumes that contract is the
mere creature ofsociety, and derives all its obligation from
human legislation. That it is not the stipulation an individual makes which binds him, but some declaration of the supreme power of a State to which he belongs, that he shall
nerform what he has undertaken to perform. That though
tW.- original declaration may be lost in remote antiquity, it
must be presumed as the origin ofthe obligation of contracts.
This postulat, the defendants deny, and, we think, with
great reason.
It is an argument -f no inconsiderable weight against it,
that we find no trace ot luch an enactment. So far back
as human research carries us, we find the judicial power as
a part of the executive, administering justice by the application of remedies to violated rights, or broken contracts. We
find that power applying these remedies on the idea of a
pre-existing obligation on every man to do what he has promised on consideration to, do; that the breach of this obligation is an inlury for which the ijured party has a iust claim

OF THE UNITED STATES.

,I

345

to compensation, and that society.ought to afford him a re- 1827.
reedy for that injury. We find allusions to the mode of acquiring property, but we find no allusron, from the earliest OFden
time, to any supposed act of tht governing power giving oh- Saunde,
ligation to contracts. On the contrary, the proceedings-respecting them of which we know any thing, evince the idea of
a pre-existing intrinsic obligation which human law enforces.
If, on tracing the right to contract, and the obligations created
by contract, to their source, we find them to exist anterior
to, and independent of society, we may reasonably conclude
that those original and pre-existing principles are, like many
other natural rights, brought with man into society; and,
although they may be controlled, are not given by human
legislation.
In the rudest state of nature a man governs himself, and
labours for his own purposes. That which he acquires is
his own, at least while in his possession, and he may trans.
fer it to another. This transfer passes his right to that
other. Hence the right to barter. One man may have acquired more skins than are necessary for his protection from
the cold; another more food' than is necessary for his 'im.
mediate use. They agree each to supply the wants of the
other from his surplus. Is this contract without obligation?
If one of them, having received and eaten the foodhe needed, refuses to deliver the skin, may not the other rightfully
compel him to deliver it? Or two persons agree to unite
their strength and skill to hunt together for their mutrial advantage, engaging to divide the animal -lxey shall
master. Can one of them rightfully take the whole 9 or,
should he attempt it, may- not the other force him to a division 9 If the answer to these questions must affirm theduty
of keeping taith between these parties, ,nd the right to enforce it if violated, the answer admits the obligation of contracts, because, upon that obligation deponds'the right to
,nforce them. Superior strength may give te powers but
cannot give the right. The rightfulness of coercion muqt
depend on the pre-existing obligation to do that-for which
compulsion is used. It is no: objection to the principle,
hat the injured party may be the weakest. In society, t.!
44
Vox,. XIL

CASES' IN THE SUPREME COURT
wrong-doer may be too powerful for the law. He may deSride its coercive power, yet hi contracts are obligatory;
and, if society acquire the power of coercion, that power
Ogden
V.
Saunders. will be applied without previously enacting that his contract
is obligatory.
Independent nations are individuals in a state of nature.
Whence is derived the obligation of their contracts 9 They
admit the existence of no superior legislative power which
is to give them validity, yet their validity is acknowledged
by all: If one of these contracts be broken, all admit the
right of the injured party to demand reparation for the in
jury, and to enforce that reparation if it be withheld. He
may not have the powet to enforce' it, but the whole civilized world concurs in saying, that the power, if possessed.
is rightfully used.
In a state of nature, these individuals. may contract, their
contracts are obligatory, and force may rightfully be- em.
ployed to coerce the party who has broken his engagto
ment
What is the efect of society upon these rights 9 When
men unite together and form a government, do they surrender their right to contract, as well as their right to enforce
the observance of contracts 9 'For what purpose should
they make this surrender ? Government cannot exercise
this power for individuals. It is better that they should exercise it for themselves. For what purpose, then, should
the surrender be made? It can only be, that government
may give it back again. As we have -no evidence of the
surrender, or of the restoration of the right; as this operatibn. of surrender and restoration would be an idle and
useless ceremony, the rational inference seems to be, that
neither has ever been made ; that individuals'do not derive
from government their right to contract, but bring that right
with them into society ; that obligation is not conferred on
contracts by positive law, but is intrinsic, and is conferred
by the act of the parties. This results from the rightwhict
every man retains to acquire property. to dispose of tha
property accordingto his ownjugrnent, and topledge him
self for a future act. These rights are not given by society
but are, brought into it. The right of coercion is necessa
1827.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

347

1827.
rily surrendered to government, and this surrender imposes
on government the correlative duty of furnishing a remedy.
The right to regulate contracts, to prescribe rules by which Ogden
V.
they shall be evdenced, to prohibit such as may be deemed Saunders.
mischievous, is unquestionable, and has been universally exercised. So far as this power has restrained the original
right of individuals to bind themselves by contract, it is restrained; but beyond these actual restraints the original
power remains unimpaired.
This reasoning is, undoubtedly, much strengthened by the
authority of those writers on natural and national law,
whose opinions have been viewed with profound respectby
the wisest men of the present, and of past ages.
Supposing the obligation of the contract to be derived.
from the agreement of the parties, we will inquire how far
law acts externally on it, and may control that obligation.
That law may have, on future contracts, all the effect which
the counsel for the plaintiff in error claim, will not be demed. That it is capable of discharging the Aebtor under
the circumstances, and on the conditions prescribed in the
statute which has been pleaded in this case, will not be controverted. But as this is an operation which was not iRtended
by the parties, nor contemplated by them, the particular
act can be entitled to this operation only when it has the
full force of law. A law may determine the obligation of a
contract on the happening of a contingency, because it is
the law. If it be not the law, it cannot have this effect.
When its existence as law is denied, that existenike cannot
be proved by showing what are the qualities of a law. Law
has been defined by a writir, whose definitions especially
have been the theme of almost universal panegyric, "to be
a rule of civil conduct prescribed by the supreme power in
a State." In our system, the legislature of a State is the
supreme power, in all cases where its action is not restrained
by the constitution of the United States. Where it -is so
restrained, the legislature ceases to be the supreme power,
and its acts are not law. It is, then, begging the question
to say, that, because contracts may be discharged by a law
previously enacted, this contract may be dischtrged'by this
act of tb;.& legislature of New-Yerk; for the question re-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
turns upon us, is this act a law 9 Is it consistent with, or
Srepugnant to, the constitution of the United States 9 This
Ogden question is to be solved only by the constitution itself.
V.
In examining it, we readily admit, that the whole subject
Saunders.
of contracts is under the control of society, and that all the
power of society over it resides in the State legislatures, except in those special cases where restraint is imposed by the
constitution of the United States. The particular restraint
now under consideration is on the power to impair the obligation of contracts. The extent of this restraint cannot be
ascertained by showing that the legislature may prescribe
the circumstances, on which the original validity of a contract shall be made to depend. If the-legislative will be,
that certain agreements shall be in writing, that they shall be
sealed, that they shall be attested by a certain number oi
witnesses, that they shall be recorded, or that they shall assume any prescribed form before they become obligatory, al
these are regulations which society may rightfully make
and whiclb do not come within the restrictions of the constitution, because they do not impairthe obligation of the con.
tract. The obligation must exist before it can be impaired.
and a probibition to impair it, when made, does not imply an
inability to prescribe those circumstances which shall create
its obligation. The statutes of frauds, therefore, which
have been enacted in the several States, and which are acknowledged to flow from the proper exercise of State sovereignty, jirescribe regulations which must precede the obligation of the contract, and, consequently, cannot impair that
obligation. Acts of this description, therefore, are most
clearly not within the prohibition of the constitution.
The acts against usury are of the same character. They
declare the contract to be void in the beginning. They deny
that the instrument ever became a contract. They deny it all
original olfligation; and cannot impair that which never came
into existence.
Acts of limitatibns approach more nearly to the subject
of consideration, but are not identified with it. They defeat a contfact once obligatory, and may, therefore, be supposed to partake of the character of laws which impair its
1,827.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

349

1827.
obligation. But a practical view of the subject will show
us that the two laws stand upon distinct principles.
OgdenV.
In the case of Sturges v. Crozmnshield it was observed
by the Court, that these statutes relate only to the remedies Saunders.
which are furnished in the Courts, and their language is generally confined to the remedy. They do not purport to
dispense with the performance of a contract, but proceed on
the presumption that a certain length of time, unexplained
by circumstances, is reasonable evidence of a performance.
Itis on this idea alone that it ts possible to sustain the decision, that a bare acknowledgment of the'debt, unaccompanied with any new promise, shall remove the bar created by
the act. 'It would be a mischief not to be tolerated, if contracts might be set up at any distance of time, when the evidence of payment might be lost, and the estates of the dead,
or even of the living, be subjected to these stale'obligations.
The principle is, without the aid of a statute, adoited by the
Courts as a rule ofjustice. The legislature has enacted no
statute of limitations as a bar to suits on sealed instruments.
Yet twenty years of unexplained silence on the part of the
creditor is evidence of payment. On parol contracts, or on
written contracts not under seal, which are considered in a
less solemn point of view than sealed instruments, the legislature has supposed that a shorter time might amount to
evidence ofperformance, and has so. enacted. All have acquiesced in these enactments, but have never considered
them as being of that class~of laws which impair.the obligation of contracts. In prescribing the evidence which shall
be received in its Courts, and the effect of that evidence,
the State is exercising its acknowledged powers. It is likewise in the exercise of its legitimate powers, when it is regulating the remedy and mode of proceeding in its Courts.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error insist, that the right
to regulate the remedy and to modify the obligation of the
contract are the same; that obligation and remedy are identical, that they are synonymous-two words conveying the
same idea.
The answer given to this proposition by the defendant's
counsel seems to be conclusive. They ongmate at. differqnt times. The obligation tn perform is coeval with fhi-

35O
18a7.
iav-%
Ogden
V.

CASES IN TH

SUPREME COURT

undertaking to perform; it originates with the contract itself,.and operates anterior to the time of performance. The
remedy acts upon a broken contract, and enforces a pre-

'Saunders. existing obligation.
If there be any thing in ti a observations made in a preceding-part of this opinion j especrting the source from which
contracts derive their obligation, the-proposition we are now
considering cannot be true. It was shown, we think, satis.
factorily, that the right to contract is the attribute of a free
agent, and that he may rightfully coerce performance from
another free agent who violates his faith. Contracts have,
When men come into
consequently, an intrinsic obligati.
society,-they can no 'loager exerci * this original and natural right of coercion. It would be incompatible with gene.
ml peace, and is, therefore, surrendered. Society prohibits
the use of private individual coercion, and gives in its place
a more safe and more certain remedy. But the r ght to
contract is not surrendered with the right to coerce performance.- It is still incident to that degree of free agency
which the laws leave to every individual, and the obligation
of the contract is a necessary consequence of the right to
make it. Laws regulate this right, but, where not regulated,
it is retained in its original extent. Obligation and remedy, then, are not identical ; they originate at different times,
and are derived from different sources.
But, although the identity of obligation and remedy be
disproved, it may be, and has been urge6d, that they are precisely commensurate with each othefr, ahd are such sympathetic essences, if the expression way be allowed, that the
action of law dpon the remeay is immediately felt by the obligation-that they live, languish, aW die tozether.. The
use made of this argument is to showhe absurdity and selfcontradiction of the construction whiCt maintains the inviolability of obligation, while it leaves the remedy to the State
governments.
We do not perce-ve this absurdity or self-contradiction.
Our country exhibits the extraordinary spectacle of distinct, and, ift
many respects, independent governments ove.
the same territory and the same people. The local govern-.
ments are reGtrmined from impaiing the obligation of con-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

351

1827.
tracts, but they furnish the -remedy to enforce them, ana
admibister that remedy in tribunals constituted by themselves. It has been shown that the obligation is 'distinct Ogden
from the remedy, and, it would seem to follow, that law Saunders.
might act on the remedy without acting on the obligation.
To afford aremedy is certainly the high duty of those who
govern to those who are governed. A filre in the performance 9f this duty subjects the government to the -just
reproach of the world. But the constitution has not undertaken to enforce its performance. That instrument treats
the States with the respect which is due to intelligent beings,
understanding their duties, and willing to perform them;
not as insane beings, who must be compelled to act for selfpreservation. Its language is the language of restraint, not
of coercion. It prohibits the States from passing any law
impairing the obligation of contracts; it does not enjoin them
to enforce contracts. Should a State be sufficiently insane
to shut up or abolish its Courts, and thereby withhold all remedy, would this annihilation of remedy annihilate the obligation also of contracts? We know it would not. Ifthe debtor should come within the jurisdiction of any Court of another State, the remedy would be immediately applied, and
the inherent obligation of the contract enforced. This cannot be ascribed to a renewal of the obligatioh, for passing
the line of a State cannot re-create an obligation which was
extinguished. It must be the original obligation derived
from the agreement of the parties, and which exists inimpaired though the remedy was withdrawn.
But, we are told, that the power of the State over tlie
remedy may be used to the destruction of alf beneficial-results from the right; and hence it is inferred, that the construction which maintains the inviolability of the obligation,
must be extended to the power of regulating the remedy.
The difficulty which this view of the subject presents, does not proceed from the identity or connexioi of
right and *remedy, but from the existence of distinct governments acting on kindred subjects. The constitution
contemplates restraint as to the obligation of cmntracts, not
as to the application of remedy. If this restraint affects a
power which the constitution did not mean to touch, it carT,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

~352
187.
v

Ogdek
V.
Saunders.

only be when that poweris used as an instrument of bosti.
lity to invade the inviolability of contract, which is placed
beyond its reach. A State may use many of its acknowledged powers in such manner as to come in conflict with
the provisions of the constitution. Thus the power over its
'domestic police, the power to 'regulate commerce purely
internal, may be so exercised as to interfere with regulations
of commerce with foreign nations, or between the States.
In such cases, the power which is supreme must control
that which is not supreme, when they come. in conflict.
But this principle does not involve any se-contradiction,
or deny the existence of the several powers in the respective governments. So, if a State shall not merely modify,
or withhold a particular remedy, but'shall apply it in such
manner as to extinguish the obligation withodt performance,
it would be an abuse of power which could scarcely be
misunderstood; but which would not prove that remedy
could not be .regulated without regulating obligation.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error put a case of inore
difficulty, and urge it as a conclusive argument against the
existence of a distinct line dividing obligation from remedy.
It is this. The law affords remedy by giving execution
against the person, or the property, or both. The same
power which can withdraw the remedy against-the person,
can withdraw that against the property, or that against both,
and thus effectually defeat the obligation. The constitution, we are told, deals not with form, but with substance ;
and cannot be presumed, if it designed to protect the obligation of coatracts from State legislation, to have left it thus
obviously exposed to destruction.
The answer is, that if the law goes farther, and annuls
the obligation without affording the remedy which satisfies
it, if its action on the remedy-be such as palpably to impair
the obligation of the contract; the very case arises which we
suppose to be within the constitution. If it leaves the
obligation untouched, but withholds the remedy, or affords
Qne which is merely nominal, it is like all other cas6s of
misgovernment, and leaves the debtor still liable to his creditor, should he be found, or should his property be found,
where the laws afford a remedy. Jf that high sense of. duty

OF THE UNITED STATES.
which men selected for the government of their fellow citi- 1827.
zens fmust be supposed to feel, furnishes no securit) against
course of legislation which must end in self-destruction ; Ogden
if the solemn oath taken by every member, to support the Saunders.
constitution of the United States, furnishes- no security
against intentibnal attempts to violate its spirit while evading
its letter ;-ttie question how far the constitution interposes a
shield for the protection of an injured individual, who demands from a Court of justice that remedy which every government ought to afford, will depend on the law itself which
shall be brought under consideration. The anticipation of
such a case would beunnecessarily disrespectful, and an opimoa oa it would be, at least, premature. But, however'the
question mig't be decided, should. itbe even determinedthat sucka law would be a successful evasion of the constitution, it does not follow, that an act which operates directly
on the contract after it is made, is not within the restriction
imposed on the States by that instrument. The validity of a
law acting di'ectly on the obligation, is not proved by
showing that the constitution has provided no means for
compelling the States to enforce it.
We perceive, then, no reason for- the opinion, that the
prohibition ",to pass any law impair g the obligation of
contracts" is incompatible with the fair exercise of that
discretion, which the State legislatures possess in common
with all governments,-to regulate the remedies afforded by
their own Courts. We think, that obligation and remedy
are dis~inguishable from each other. That the first is created hy the act of the parties, the last is afforded by government. The words of the restriction we have been considering, countenance, we think, this idea. No State shall
"pass any law impairing the obligation of contracts." •Thtse
words seems to us to import, that the obligation is intrinsic,
that it is created by the contract itself, ndt that it is dependent on the laws made.to enforce it. When we advert to
the course of reading generdlly pursued by Ameridan statesmen in early life,- we must suppose, that the framers of onr
constitution were intimately acquainted with the writings of
those-wise andlearneA men, whose treatises on the laws of
4b
Vot. Xl,

CJASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.

v

Ogden
V.

Saunders.

nature and nations have guided public opinion on the bub
jects of obligation and contract. If we turn to those treatises, we find them to concur in the declaration, that contracts possess an original intrinsic obligatioia, derived from
the acts of free agents, and not given by government. We
must suppose, that the framers of our constitution took the
same view of the subject, and the language they have used
confirms this opinion.
The propositions we have endeavoured to maintain, of
the truth of which we are ourselves convinced, are these That the words of the clause in the constitution which
we are considering, taken ii their natural and obvious
sense, admit of a prospective, as well as of a retrospectivc.
operation.
That an act of the legislature does not enter into the
contract, and become one of the conditions stipulated by
the parties ; nor does it act externally on the agreement.
unless it have the full force of law.
That contracts derive their obligation from the act of the
parties, not from the grant of goveriament ; and that the right
of government to regulate the manner in which they shall
be formed, orto prohibit such as may be against the policy
of the State, .is entirely consistent with their inviolability
after they have been formed.
That the obligation of a contract is not identified with
the means which government may furnish to enforce it; and
that a prohibition to pass any law impairing it, does not imply a prohibition to vary the remedy , nor does a power to
vary the remedy, imply a power to impair the obligation
derived from the act of the parties.
We cannot look back to the history of the times when
the august spectacle was exhibited of the assemblage of a
whole people by their representatives in Convention, in or.
der to unite thirteen independent sovereignties under one
government, so far as might be necessary for the purposes of
union, without being sensible of the great importance which
was at that time attached to the tepth section of the first article. The power of changing the relative situation of
debtor and creditor, of interfering with contracts, a power
which comes home to every man, touches the interest of all.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

355

and controls the conduct of every individual in those things 1827.
which he supposes to be proper for his own exclusive ma- '.av-'
nagement, had been used to such an excess by the State Ogden
legislatures, as to break in upon the ordinary intercourse of Saunders.
society, and destroy all coufidence between man and man.
The mischief had become so great, so alarming, as not only
to impair commercial intercourse, and threaten the existence of credit, but to sap the morals of the people, and
destroy the sanctity of private faith. To guard against the
continuance of the evil was an object of deep interest with
all the truly wise, as well as the virtuous, of this great community, and was one of the important benpfits expected
from a reform of the govarnmont.
To impose restraints on State legislation as respected this
delicate and interesting subject, was thought necessary by
all those patriots who could take an enlightened and comprehensive view of our situation, and the principle obtained an early admission into the various schemes of govern,.
went which were submitted to the Convention. In framing
an instrument, which was intended to be perpetual, the presumption is strong, that every important principle introdaced into it is intended to be perpetual also ; that a principle
expressed in terms to operate in all future time, is intended
so to operate. But if the construction for which the plaintifPs
counsel contend be the true one, the constitution will have
imposed a restriction in language indicating perpetuity, which
every State in the Union may elude at pleasure. The obligation of contracts in force, at any given time, is but of
short duration; and, if the inhibition be of retrospective laws
only, a very short lapse of time will remove every subject
on which the act is forbidden to operate, and make this provision of the constitution so far useless; Instead of introducing a great principle, prohibiting all laws of this.ob.
noxious character, the constitution will only suspend their
operation for a moment, or except from it pre-existing cases.
The object would scarcely seem to be of sufficient importance to have found a place in that instrument.'
Thi'3 construction would dhange the character of the pro?
vision, and convert an inhibitioa , a pass lav s impairing the
obligation of contracts, into an inhibition to pass retrospec-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
tive laws. Had thig been the intention of the Convention,
is it not reasonable to believe that it would have been so
expressed ? Hal the intention been to confine the restricV.
Saunders. tion to laws which were retrospective in their operation,
language could have been found, and would have been used,
to convey this idea. The very word would have occurred
to the framers of the instrument, and we should have probably found it in the clause. Instead of the general prohibition to pass any "law impairing the obligation of contracts,"
the prohibiti6n would have been to the passage of any retrospective law. Or, if the intention had been not to embrace all retrospective laws, but those only which related to
contracts, still the word womld havs. hpn introduced, and
the State legislatures would have been forbidden "to pass
any retrospectivelaw impairing the obligation .ofcontracts,,"
or "to pass any law impairing the obligation of contracts
*previousty made." Words which directly and plainly express
the cardinal intent, always- present themselves to those who
are preparing an important instrument, and will always be
used by them. Undoubtedly there is an imperfection in
human language, which often exposes the same sentence to
different constructions. But it ig rare, indeed, for a person
ef clear and .distinct perceptionsi intending to convey one
principal idea, so to express hi'mself as to leave any doubt
respectirig that idea. It may be uncertain whetherhis words
comprehend other things not immediately in his mind; but
it can seldom be uncertain whether he intends the particular thing.to which his mind is specially directed. If the mind
of the Convention, in framing this prohibition, had be/n directed, not generally to the operation of laws upon the obligation of contracts, but particularly to their retrospective
operation, it is scarcely conceivable that some word would
not have 'been used indicatiing this idea. In instruments
prepared on great consideratiqn, general terms, comprehending a whole subject, are seldom. employed to designate
a particular, we might say, a minute portion of that subject.
The getieral language of the clause is such as m ight be suggested by a general intent to prohibit State legislation on the
sibject to which that language is applied-the obligation of
1827.
Ogden

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1827.
cdntracts, not such as would be suggested by a particular
intent to prohibit retrospective legislation.
Ogden
It is also worthy of consideration. that those laws which
V
had effected all that mischief the constitution intended to Saunders.
prevent, were prospective as well as retrospective, in their
operation. They embraced future contracts, as well as
those previously formed. There is the less reason for imputingto the Cotivention-an intention, not manifested b) their
language, to confine a restriction intended to guard against
the recurrence of those mischiefs, to retrospective legisfation. For these. reasons, we are of opinion, that, on this
point, the District Court of Louisiana has decided rightly.
Judgment having been entered in favour of the validity March 6th.
of a certificate of discharge wider the State laws in those
cases, (argued in connexion with Ogden v. Saunders,) where
the contract was made between citizens of the State under
whose law the dispharge was obtained, and in whose Courts
the certificate was pleadea, the cause was further argued
by the same counsel, upon the points reserved, as to the
effect of such -a discharge in respect to a contract made
with a citizen of another State, and where the. certificate
was pleaded in the Courts of another State, or of the United
States.
To render the .judgnrent which was finally pronounced
in the cause intelligible, it is necessary to state, that in addition to the plea of the certificate of discharge under the
insolvent law of the State of New-York, of. 1801, the defendant below, Ogden, pleaded the statute of limitations (of
New-York,) non assurnpittnfra sew annos.
To this plea, the plaintiff below, Saunders, replied, that
previous to the running of the statute, to wit, in April,
1810, the defendant, Ogden, removed from the State of
New-York to4 New-Orleans, in the State of Louisiana,
where he continued to reside until' the commencement of
this suit.
The jury found the facts of the drawing and acceptance
of the bills, of the discharge under the insolvent law of
New-York, and of the defendant's removing to Louisiana
at the.time stated in the plaintiffs replication, in the form

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.

of what was probably intended to be a special verdict, sub.
the law to the Court: " If the law be for the plaintiff, then they find for the plaintiff the amount of the seve-

Smitting

Ogden
V.

Saunders. ral acceptances, with the interest and costs,; but if the lkw
on the said facts be for the defendant, then the jury find for
the defendant, with costs."
Ajudgment was rendered by the Court below upon tiis
verdict. And the cause being brough, by writ of error before this Court, among.the errors assigned w~s the following" " That the judgment of the Court is for a greater sum
than is found by the jury; the whole amount of the bills
set forth in the petition being 2,183 dollars, amounting, with
interest from the time of the judicial demand, to 2,652 dollars and 34 cents. Whereas the judgment is *forthe sum of
4,017 dollars, 64 cents, damages," &c.
March 13th.

Mr. Justice JOHNSON. I am instructed by the majority
of the Court finally to dispose of this cause. The present
majority is not the same which determined the general question on the constitutionality of State insolvent laws, with
reference to the violation of the obligation of contracts. I
nowstand united with the minority on the former question,
and, therefore,. feel it due to myself and the community to
maintain my consistency.
The question now to be considered is, whether a dis.
charge of a debt%. "rnder a State insolvent, law, would be
valid against a creditor or citizen of another State, who-bas
never voluntarily subjected himself to the State laws, other.
wise than by the origin of .his contract.
As between its own citizens, whatever be the origin of
che contract, there is now no question to be made on the
effect of such a discharge; nor 15 it to be questioned, that a
discharge not valid under the constitution in the Courts of
the United States, is equally invalid in the State Courts.
The question to be considered goes to the invalidity of the
discharge altogether, and, therefore, steers clear of that
provision in the constitution which purports to give validity
in every State to the records, judicial proceedings, and so
forth, of each State.
The question now to be considered, .was anticipated in

OF THE UNITED STATES.

'359

1827.
the case of Sturges v. Crowninshield,when the Court, i
-.
the close of the opinion delive red, declared. that it means .
to confine its views to the case then undet consideration, Ogden
and not to commit itself as to those in which the interests Saunders.
and rights of a citizen of andther State are implicated.
The question is one partly international, partly constitutional. My opinion on the subject is briefly this that the
provision in the constitution which gives the power to the
general government to establish tribunals of its own in
every State, in order that the citizens of other States or
sovereignties might therein prosecute their rights under the
jurisdiction of the United States, had for its object an barmomous distribution of justice throughout the Union; to
confine the States, in the exercise of their judicial sovereignty, to cases between their own citizens; to prevent, in
fact, the exercise of that very power over the rights of citizens .of other States, whicii the origin of the contract might
be supposed to give to each State, and thus, to obvIate that
conflictus legum, which has employed. the pens of Huberus
and various others, and which any one who studies the subject will plainly perceive, it is infinitely more easy to neyent than to adjust.
These conflicts of power and right necessarily arise only
after contracts are entered into. Contracts, then, become
the appropriate subjects of judicial cognizance;- arid if the
just claims which the" give rise to, are violated by arbitrary
laws, or if the course of distributive justice be turned
aside, or obstructed by legislative interference, it becomes
a subject of jealousy, irritation, and national complaint or
retaliation.
It is not unimportant to observe, that the constitution
was adopted at the very period when the Courts of Great
Britain were engaged in adjusting the conflicts of right
which arose upon their own bankrupt law, among the subjects of that crown in the several dominions of Scotland,
Ireland, and the West Indies. The first case we have on
the effect of foreign discharges, that of Ballantine v.
Golding, occurred in 1783, and the law could hardly he
held settled before the case of Hunter v. Potts. which wam
decided in 1791.

360
1827:
%.v
Ogden
V.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
.Any one who will take the trouble to investigate the sub.
ject, will, I think, be satisfied, that although" the British
Courts profess to decide upon a principle of universal law,

Saunders. when adjudicating upon the efiect.. of a foreign discharge,
neither the passage in Vattel, to winch they constantly refer,
nor the -practice and doctrines of other nations, will ghstain
them in the principle to the extent in which they assert it.
It was all important to a great commercial nation, the cre.
ditors of all the rest of the world, to maintain the doctrine
as one of universal obligation, that the assignment of the
bankrupt's'er#ects, under a law of the countrq of the contract,
should carry the interest n hts debts, vherever his debtor may
reside; and that no foreign discharge of his debtor should
operate agawnst debts contracted with the banktupt in his own
country. But I think it perfectly clear, that in the United
States a different doctrine has been established ; and since
the power to discharge the bankrupt is asserted on the same
principle with the power to assign his debts, that the departure from it in the one instance, carries with it a negation of
the principle altogether.
It'is vain to deny that it is now the established doctrine
in England, that the discharge of a baikrupt shall be effectual against contracts of the State that give the discharge,
whatsoever be the allegiance or country of the creditor.
But Fthink itequally clear, that this is a rule peculiar to her
jurisprudence, and that reciprocity is the general rule of
other countries ; that the effect given to such discharge is
so much a matter of comity, that the States of the European
continent, in all cases reserve the right of deciding whether
reciprocity will not operate injuriously upon their own citizens.
Hubeius, in his third axiom on this subject, puts the effect of such laws upon the ground of courtesy, and recognisds the reservation that I have mentioned, other writers
do"the same.
I will now examine the American decisions on this subject; and, first, in direct hostility with the received doctrines bf the British Courts, it has been solcmnly adjudged
in -this Court, and,. I believe, in .every State.Court of the
Union, that, notwithstanding the laws of bankruptcy in

OF THE UNITED STATES.

England, a creditor of the bankrupt may levy an attaclh,

361
1827.

-ment on a debt due the bankrupt in this country, and approOgden
priate the proceeds to his own debt.
V.
"In the case of Harnso* v. Sterty, (5 Cranch, 298. 302.) Saunders,
,acase drcided in this Cburt in 1809, upon full argument,
and greit deliberation, and in which all the English cases
were quoted, it'is expressly adjudged, "that in the case of
a contract made with foreigners in a foreign country, the
bank0upt laws of the foreign country are incapable of ope.
rating a legal transfer of property in the United States',' and
judgment was given in favour of the attaching creditors,
against the claim of .the foreign assignees.
In that case, also, anotherimportant doctrine is establisi-

ed in hostility with the British doctrine.

For the United

States had mteiposed a claitn against the English assignees,
in order to obtain. satisfaction ftiom the proceeds 'of tho
bankrupt's effects in this coun ty., for a debt contracted in
Great Britain. And this Court decreed,."according!y, expressly restricting the power of the country- of the contract to its concoction and exposition.
The larguage of the-Court'is, " The 'law of the place
where a contract is made, is, gederally speaking, the law of
the contract ; that is, it is the liw by which the contract is
expounded. But the right of priority forms no part of the
contract itself. t is extrinsic, and is rather a personal pri,
vilege, dependent on the laws o4 the place where the pro,
perty lies, and where the Court sits which decides the
cause.

And, accordingly, the law of the United States was sus,
tained, which gave the debts due the bankrupt here, to satisfy a debt contracted in England, to the prejudice of tho
3aw of England, which gave the same debt to the -- gnees
of the bankrupt.
It cannot be necessary to go farther than this case to es.
tablish, that, so far as relates to the foreign creditbr, thiscountry does not recognise the English doctrine, that the
bankrupt law of the countrJ of the contract is yarartoznf in
diposng of the rtghts of the bankrupt.
The United States pass a law which asserts the iight to
49
VoL. XII.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
appropriate a debt due a ibreign bankrupt, to satisfying a
Sdebt due itself, and incurred by tlit bankrupt in his own
Ogden
T1
country. The a'ignees
of that bankrupt qaustioin this
V.
Saunders. right, and claim the debt as lega y vested. in thew, by the
law of the coujitry ot-the contract, and marntain that the
debt due the United States,. beig contracted in Great Britain, was subject to the laws of Great Britain, and, therefore, entitled only to share in common with other creditors
in the proceeds of the bankrupt's effects; that the debt so
appropriated by the law of the United States to its exclusive
benefit was,as to all the bankf-upt's contracts,or certainly as
toall English contracts,vested in the assignees, on international principles, principles which gave effect to the English
bankrupt laws, so vesting that debt, paramount (o the laws of
other countries.
In giving effect to the,law ofthe United States, this Court
overrules that doctrine, and, in the act of passing that law,
this government asserts both -the power over the subject,
and the right to exercise. that power without a violation of
national comity.; or has dt least taken its stand against that
comity, and asserted a right to protect its own interests,
which, in principle, is equally applicable to the interests of
its own citizens.
It has had, in fact, regard to the lex loct ret sitw, as existing in the person and funds of the debtor of the bankrupt.
and the rights of self preservation, and duty of protection to
its own citizens, and the actual allegiance of the creditor and
debtor, not the metaphysical allegiance of the contract, on
which the foreign power is asserted.
It would be in vain to assign the decisioi of this Court in
Harrisonv. Sterry, or the passing of the law of the United
States, to the general preference, which the government may
assert in the payment of its own debt, since that preference
can only exist to the prejudice of its own citizens, whereas.
the precedence there claimed and conceded operated to-the
prejudice of'British creditors.
The case of Baker v. Wheaton, adjudged in the Courts of
Massachusetts in the time of Chief Justice Parsons, (5 Mass.
.Rep. 509.) is a very strong case upon this subject. That
also was argued with great care, and all the British cases
1827.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

363

reviewed, the Court took time to deliberate, and the same 1827.
doctrine was maintained, in the same year and the same
month with Harrn.-n v. Sterry, and certainly without any Ogden.
Saundern.
communication between the two Courts.
note
a
promissory
gave
Wheaton
one.
this
The case was
to one Chandler,both being at that time citizens and inhabitants of Rhode Island. Wheaton was discharged under the
bankrupt laws of Rhode Island, both still continuing citizens and inhabitants of the same State, and th'e note remaining the property of Chandler. Subsequent to the discharge,
Chandler endorses the note to Baker, and WheatonC is arrested in Massachusetts. He pleads the discharge in bar,
and the Court, in deciding,. expresses itself thus. "When,
therefore, the defendant was discharged from that contract,
lege loci, the promisee was bound by that discharge, as he
was aparty to the laws of that State, and assenting to htir
operation. Butif, when the contract was made, the pro.
misee had not been a citizen of Rhode island,'he would not
have been bound by the 4zws of it or any other State, and,
holding this note at the time of the discharge, he might afterwards maintainan action upon it in the Courts of this State."
And again, (page 311.) "if the note had been transferred te
the plaintiff, a citizen of this State, whilst it remained due
and undischarged by-the insolvent laws of Rhode Island,
those laws could not affect his rights in the Courts of law is
this State, because he is not bound by them."
This, it will be pbserved, regrds a contract acknowledged
to be of Rhode Island origin.
There is ahother case reported inthe decisions of the same
State, (10 vol.,p. 337.) which carries this aoctnne still far,
tfer, and, I apprehend, to a length which cannot be maintained,
This was the cse of Watson v. Bourne, in which Watson)
a citizen pf Massachusetts, had sued 'Bourne in a State
Court, and oNtined judgment. Bourne was discharged under the insolvent laws of that State, and 'being afterwards
found in Massachusetts was arrested on an action of:delA
upon the judgment. , He pleads the discharge; plaintiff replies; that he, platnti was a citizen of .Massachusetts, and,
-therefore.not precluded by the discharge. The origin of the

CASES INI THE SU I'EME COURT
1827
v
Ogden
V.

debt does not appear from the report, and the argument,
turned wholly on the question, whether by entering judgment in the Court of the State, he had not subjected his

aunders. rights to the State laws pro tanto.
The Court overruled the plea, and recognised the doctrine in Baker v. Wleaton, by declaring, "that a discharge
of that nature can only operate where the law is tade by
an authority common to the creditor and debtor in all respects, where both are citizens or subjects."
I have little doubt that the Court was wrong in denying
the effect of the discharge as against.judgmentsrendered.in
the State Courts, when the party goes voluntarily and unnecessarily into those Courts , but the decision shows, in other
respects, how decidedly the British doctrine is repelled in
the Courts of that State.
The British doctrine is also unequivocally repelled in a
very learned opinion delivered by Mr. Justice Nott, in the
Court of the last resort in South Carolina, and in which the
whole Court, consisting of the common law Judges of the
State, concurred. This *as in the case of the .4ssignees of
Topham v. Chapman et at. in which the rights of the tittaching creditor were maintained against those of the assignees
of the bankrupt ,(1 ConstitutionalReports, p. 253.) and that
the same rule was recognised at an early day in the Court
of Pennsylvania, appears from the leading case of Phillips
v. Hunter, (2 H. Black.. 40C.) in which a British creditor
who had recovered of a debtor of the bankrupt in Pennsylvania, was compelled by the British Courts to refund to the assignees in England, as for money had and received to their
use.
I think it, then, fully established, that in the United States
a creditor of the foreign bankrupt may attach the debt due
the f6reign bankrupt, and apply the money to the satisfaction
of hig peculiar debt, to the prejudice of the rights of the assignees or other creditors.
I do not here speak of assignees, or rights created, under
the bankrupt's own deed; those staid on a different ground,
and do not affect this question. I confine myself to assignments, or transfers, resting on the operptign of the laws of
the .country, independent of the bankrupt's deed ; to, the

OF THE UNTED STATES.

~365

rights and liabilities of debtor, creditor, bankrupt, and as- 1827.
signees, as created by law.
Wat is the actual bearing of this right to attach, so gene- Ogden
Saunders.
rally recognised by our decisions?
It imports a general abandonment of the British principies, foy, according to their laws, the assignee alone has the
power to release the debtor. But the right to attach necessarily implies the right to release the debtor, and that right
is here asserted under the laws of a State which is not the
State -ofthe contract.
So, also, the creditor of the bankrupt is, by the laws of
his country, entitled to no more than a ratable participation in the bankrupt's effects. But the right to attach imports a right to exclusive satisfaction, if the effects so attached should prove adequate to make satisfaction.
The right to attach also imports the right to sue the bankrupt, and who would impute to the bankrupt law of another
countiy, the power to restrain the citizens of these States in
the exercise of their right to g6 into the tribunals of their
own country for the recovery of dehts,.wherever they may
have originated 9 Yet, universally, after the law takes the
bankrupt into its own haads, his creditors are prohibited
from suing.
Thus much for the law of this case in an international
view. I will consider it with reference to the provisions of
the constitution.
I have said above, that I had no doubt, the erection of a
distinct tribunal for the resort of citizens of other States,
was introduced, ex mdustria, into the constitution, to pre4ent, among other evils, the assertion of a power over the
rights of the citizens of other States, upon the metaphysical
ideas of the British Courts on the subject of jurisdiction
over contracts. And there was good reasop for it, for.
upon that priftiple it is, that a power is-asserted over the
rights of creditors which involves a mere mockery of justice.
Thus, in the case of Burrows v. Jemmno, (reported in
'2 Strange, and better reported in Mode'y, and some other
books,) the creditor, residing in England, was cited, probably,
by a placard qu a-dbor-post n Leghorn, toappear there.-to

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
18-7.
%,*-'
Ogden
V.

Saunders.

answer to his debtor; andhis debt passed upon by the Court,
perhaps, without his haiing ever heard of the restitution of
legal process, to destroy-it.
The Scotch, if I remember correctly, attach the summdns
on the flag-staff, or in the market place, at the shore of
LUith, and the civil law process by proclamation, or viis
et modis, is not much better, as the means of subjecting the
rights of foreign creditors to their tribunals.
All this mockery of justice, and the jealousies. recriminations, and, perhaps, retaliations, which might grow out of it,
are avoided, if the power of the States over contracts, after
they become the subject exclusively of judigial cognizance,
is limited to the controversies of their own citizens.
And it does, appear to me almost incontrovertible, that
the States cannot proceed one step farther without exercising a power incompatible with the acknowledged powers
of other States, or of the United States, and with the rights
of the citizens of other States.
Every bankrupt or.insolvent system in the world, must
partake of the character of a judicial investigation. Parties
whose rights are to be affected, are entitled to a hearing.
Hence every system, in common with the particular system
now before us, professes to sv';-#on the creditors before
some tribunal, to show cause ag..inst granting a discharge to
the bankrupt.
But on what principle can a citizen of another State be
forced into the Courts of a State for this investigation 9 Tihe
judgment to be passed is to prostrate his rights, and onrthe
subject of these rights the constitution exempts him from
the jurisdiction of the State tribunals, without regard to the
place where the contract may originate. In the only tribunal to which he owes allegiance, the State insolvent, or
banki:upt laws, cannot be carried into effect, they have a
law of their own on the subject ; and a certificate of discharge under any other law would not be acknowledged as
valid even ip the Courts of the State in which the Court of
the United States that grants it, is held. Where is the reciprocity ? Where the reason upon which the State Courts
a

Act of Conress of .Tanuarv Oth, 1800, eh. 4. (vol 3. 1). $01.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1827.
can thus exercise a power over the suitors of that Court,
'
when that Court possesses no such power over the suitors of .
Ogdon
?
the State Courts
V..
In fact, the constitution takes away the only ground upon Saunders.
which this eminent dominion over particular contracts can
be claimed, which is that of sovereignty. For the constitutional suitors in the Courts of the U ted States, are not
only exempted from the necessity of resorting to the State
tribunals, but actually cannot'be forced into them. If, then,
the law of the English Courts had eyer beeni practically
adopted in this country in the State tribunals.,the constitution has produced such a radical modification of State povier
over even their own contracts, in the hands 4f individuals
not subject to their jurisdiction, as -to furnish ground for excepting the rights of such individuals from the power which
the States unquestionably possess over'their own contracts.
and their own citizens.
Follow out the contrary doctrine in its consequences, and
see'the absurdity it will produce.
The constitution has constituted Courts professedly independent of State power in thei judicial course; and yet
the judgments of those Courts ard to be vacated, and their
prisoners set at large, under the power of the State Courts,
or of the State laws, without the possibility of protecting
themselves from its exercise.
I cannot acquiesce in an incompatibility so obvious.
No one has ever imagined, that a prisoner, in confinement
under process from the Courts of the United States, could
avail himself of the insolvent laws of the State in which
the Court sits. And the reason is, that those 1aws are municipal and peculiar, and appertaining exclusively to the
exercise of State power in that sphere in whijh it is sove.
reign, that is, between its own citizens, betweeo suitors subjected to State power exclusively, in their controversies between themselves.
In the Courts of the United States, no higher power l
asserted'than that of discharging the individual in confinement under its own process. This affecft noi to interfere
with the righLof creditors in the State Courts, against the
same individual. Perfect-rdciprocity would seem to mdi-

36,.

CASES IN THE SUPREME, COJRT

catq, that no greater power should be exercised under State
1827.
'authority
over the rights of suitors who belong to the Un.
Ogden
ted States jurisdiction. Even although the principle asV.

Saunders. serted in the British Courts, of supreme and exclusive power
over their own contracts, had obtained in the Courts of the
United.States, I must think that powe# has undergone a radical modification by thejudicial powers granted to the United States.
I, therefore, consider the discharge under a State law, as
incompetent to discharge a debt due a citizen of another
State; and, it follows, that the plea of a discharge here set
up, is insufficient to bar the rights of the plaintiff'.
It becomes necessa y, therefore, to consider the other errors asigned in behalf of the defendjant; and, first, as to
the plea of the act of limitations.
The statute pleaded here is not the act -ofLouisiana, but
that of New-York ; and the question is not raised by t"a
facts or averments, whether he could avail himself ot thdt
law if the full tim"e had run out before his departure from
New-York, as was supposed in argument. The plea is obviously founded on the idea, that the statute of the State of
the c6ntract, was generally pleadable in any other State, a
doctrine that will not bear argument.
The re.maining error assigned has regard to the sum for
which thejudgment is entered, it being for a greater amount
than the nominal amount of the bills of exchange on which
the suit wag brought, and.which are found by the verdict.
There has been a defect of explanation on this subject;
but from the best information afforded us, we consider the
amount for which judgment is entered, as made dp of principal, interest, and damages, and the latter as being legally
incident to the finding of the bills of exchange, and their
non-payment, and hssessed by the Court under a local practice consonant with that by which the amount of written
contracts is determined, by reference to the prothonotary, in
many other of our Courts. We. therefore, see no error in
it. The judgment below will, therefore, be affirmed.
And the purport ofthis adjudication, as I understand it, is,
that as between citizens of the same State, a discharge of a
bankrupt by the lawsof that State, is valid as t af cts pos-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

terior contracts ; that as against creditors, citizens of other
Stateq, it is invalid as to all contracts.

369
1827.

Vo
The propositions which I have endeavoured to maintain Ogden
Saundrs.
in the opinion which I have delivered are these:
lst. That the power given to the United States to pass
bankrupt laws is not etclusive.
2d. That the "air and ordinary exercise of that power by
the States does not necessarily involve a violation of the ob-

ligation of contracts, multofortiors of posterior contracts.

3d. But when, in the exercise of that power, the States pass
beyond their own limits, and the rights of their own. citizens, and act upon the rights of citizens of other States,
there arises a conflict of sovereign power, and a collision
'with the judicLal powers granted to the United State, -Which
renders the xercise of such a power incompatible with the
rights of other States, and with the constitution of the Uniied
8tates.
Mr. Justice WASHINGTON, Mr. Justice THoMPsoN, andMr. Justice Trwx Lz, dissentedMr. Chief Justice MARSHALL, Mr. Justice DUVALL, -and
Mr. Jrstice STORY, assented to the judgment, which was en-

tered for the defendant in error.
Judgment afflrmed.4
a In the case of Shaw v. Robbiu, th judgment below was reverse. This was an acuon on several bills of exchange, drawn by the
plaintiff on the defendant, payable to plaintiff's order, and by the de-

fendant duly accepted. At the time of the transaction, the plaintiff
was a citizen of Massachusetts, resident in that State, and the de-

fendant a citizen of New-York, and there resident. -The action was
brought in a State Court, in Ohio, and the defendant relied. on a.
discharge, obtained in New-York, under the provisions of the inslvent laws of that State. The highest Court of law in Ohio gave

.judgment for the defendant; and the cause was brought before this
Court by a writ of error.
Mr. Justice JoHrisorv.

This is a contract between a citizen of%

New-York and a citizen of Massachusetts. It only differs from Ogden v. Saund~rs in this particular, that the action was brought in, a
State Court; not the Court of New-York, hut the Court of another
,§tate. We think the decision at the case of Ogden v. Saunders ap-

plies Ito this, and must govern its decision. The -judgment below,
therefore, must be reversed, and the cause remanded for such further proceedings as the law may regire.

Vor,. XlI.

47

