OF THE UNITED STATES.

523

This was debt upon a sheriff's bonl, brought against a 1827.
surety in Maryland. The same plaintiff had brought suit,
and recovered judgment against the sheriff forthe same Hafcourt
V.
cause of action, and the Court refused to receive the record Ga'llard.
of that judgment in evidence as against the surety. In the
inferior Court it was rejected on a division of opinion, but in
the Court of the last resort, we are told, the judgment was
affirmed.
On this decision we can only remark, that the report oi
it is very brief and unsatisfactory; there is no argument of
counsel, or other means of determining on what the decision turned. If the attempt was made to introduce the record as final and conclusive against the surety, it was pro.
perly rejected, and, in the absence of any thing to prove the
contrary, we cannot but suspect that such was the true import of that decision. In any other view, we should not
feel satisfied to recognise its authority.
Judgment reversed, and a veniiefacias de noo awaraeu.

"[CONSTRUCTION OF T EzATY.
HARCOURT

Locx xiw.]

and others againstGAILLARD and others.

A grant made by the British governor of Florida, after the der
claration of independence within the territory lying between the
Mississippi and the Chatahouchee rivers, and between the 31st degree of north latitude, and a line drawn from the mouth of the Yazoo river due east to the Chatahouehee, is invalid as the foundation
of title in the Courts ofthe United States.

This cause was argued by Mr. White and Mr. 2saacks for Feb. isth.
the plaintiffs, and by Mr. Coxe and Mr. Worthington for
the defendants,,
a.flaIs Law Journ. 411.200. 430. 4 Johm.Rep. 163.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Harcourt

Mr. Justice JOHNSON delivered the opinion of the Court.
The questions upon which this cause turns arose out of a
British grant to the ancestor of the lainiff, dated the 24th

Gaillard.

of January, 1777.

t827.
'.-v%/

itf

V.p

Marchd.~

-

The land in-controversy is situated in that tract of country which lies between the Mississippi and Chatahouchee
rivers, and between the 31st degree of north latitude to the
south, and a line drawn from-the mouth of the Yazoo river,
due east to the Chatahouchee. From the earliest times of
the settlement of North America, the region of.territory in
which that tract of country is described, was the subject of
wars and negotiations with France, Spain, and Great Britain, until 1763, when Great Britain became the undisputed
proprietor of the whole, from the lakes Maurepas to Ponchartrain, and the gulphs of Mexico and Florida, by the
Mississippi northwardly. Before that time, her claim extended southwardly to the 29th degree of north latitude, as
is evidenced by her charter to the lords proprietors of 1677,
and from the same instrument it appears that she interfered with the province of Louisiana by extending her southera line to the Pacific ocean. The country of Florida,
therefore, south of the 29th degree, was a conquest; that
north of the 29th degree, and up the Mississippi. was held as
a part of her own territory, concerning which her treaties
with France and Spain only established a disputed boundary.
On the 7th of October, 1763, the king, exercising a right
which was never questioned, over what were then called
royal pr.)vinces, issued his proclamation, by which he est4blished the northern boundary of the Floridas at the 31 st degree ,'fnqrth latitude from the Mississippi to the Apalachichola, down that steam to its confluence with Flint river, and
from that point by a line to the head of the St. Mary's, and
by that river to the sea. And this was the line which, by
treaty of peace, was established as the southern boundary
of the United States. After the peace, the United States,
Spain, South Carolina, a'id Georgia, succeeded to the disputes of Great Britain, France and Spain, relative to the
.lame tract of country.

UP THE UNITED STATES.

525

'The original title of South Carolina, under the grant to the 1827.
/
lords proprietors was unquestionable; and she contended \.'
sove- Harcourt
that she had never been legally devested of soil or
Gaillard.
reignty.
Georgia founded her claim on the commissions to her governor Wright, which comprised, within its jurisdiction, the
territory in question ; and the United States claimed itas a
conquest from the British province of West Florida. While
Spain insisted that it was a part of Louisiana orFlorida, and
as sucn, ceded to her by the treaty of 1783. Finally, South
Carolina, by the treaty of Beaufort, relinquished her claim
to Georgia, and the United States settled her claim by taking
a cession from Georgia of the land in controversy; so that,
at present, the claims of-the United States, of the State of
South Carolina, and of Georgia, have become united in the
general government.
The grant to Harcourt, it will be perceived from its date,
was subsequent to th'.e declaration of independence, and
within the .ackiowledged limits of the United States ; it,
therefore, involves the question whether such a grant can
be valid; a question which would have been involved in less
difficulty, if the United States had never set up the claim of
conquest. That ground would admit the original right of
the governor of West Florida to grant, and if so, his right to
grant might have continued in force until the treaty of peace
and the grant in that case to Harcourt might have had extended to it the benefit of those principles Qf public lawr
which are applicable to territbries acquired by conquest;
whereas, the iight set up by South Carolina and Georgia
deny all power in the grantor over the soil, the question
ybhich they present, is. one of disputed boundaries, within
which, the power that succeeds in war is not obliged to recognise as vali. any acts of ownership exercised by his adversary.
There are several reasons for putting the claim of the United States out of the question. She has abandoned it, and it is
very clear, could never have sustained it. The very ground
on which she denied the capacity of Spain to conquer, or
take,by cession, the territory on the Mississippi, was fatal to
'lie pretensions set up by her against Georgia and South

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.
Harcourt
V.

Carolina, to wit, that Spain could not acquire by conquest
Sa territory within the limits claimed by an ally in the war.

Btt there was another reason.

There was no territory

Gailard. within the United States that , as claimed in any other right
than that of ome one of the confederated States, therefore,
there could be no acquisition of territory made by the'United
States distinct from, or independent of some one of the States.
We are then referred to the belligerent rights of South
Carolina and Georgia; and it is immaterial to the question
here, to which of those Atates the territory apper dmed.
Each declared itself sovereign and independent, according
to the limits of its territory, and both extended their claims
of territory to the 31st parallel of north latitude. There is
no evidence that either, at that time, had acquiesced in the
extension of the territory of Florida beyond that line.
The facts upon which the right of the governor of Florida
to issue grants beyond the 31st degee of north latitude rested are these: After the proclamation of 1763, the board of
trade of Great Britain, which, at that time, had the affairs of
the colonies committed to them, passed a resolution, of the
date of March, 1764, in which they advise the king to extend the limits of West Florida up to a line drawn from the
mouth of the Yazoo, east to the Chatahouchee. It does not
appear that the king ever made an order adopting this recommendation. No proclamation was issued'in pursuance
of it ; but it appears that, from that time, the commissions
to the governors of West Florida designated that line as the
northern limit of that province; notwithstanding which, governor Wright continued to preside over Georgia under his
commission of 1763, which embraced in its limits the whole
of that country, bounded south by the 31st degree of north
latitude. Thus stood the rights of the parties at the commencement of the revolution, and when, by the treaty of
peace, the southern boundary of the United States was fixed
at the ancient boundary of South Carolina or Georgia, (it
matters not which,) Georgia insisted on that line as the limit
which she was entitled to, and which she had laid claim to
when she declared herself independent; or which the'United States had asserted in her behalf in the declaration of
independence. Bat as there hadbeen nothing very uneqimvo-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

527

1827.
cal done at the time of the declaration of independence, as
to designating the limits of the United States. it is still contended, that the tract of country in which the grant lies bad Harcourt
V.
been legally separated from Georgia before the revolution, Galard.
and attached to West Florida ; and that, therefore, a grant
by the governor of the latter province was valid, if made at
any time previons to the treaty of peace.
Two questions here occur, first, whether this separation
had taken effect by any valid act, and secondly, if it had,
whether it made any difference in the case upon international principles.
On both these points, we are of opinion that the law is
against the validity of this grant. It is true, that the power
of the crown was at that time admitted to be very ab;olute
over the limits of the royal provinces; but there is no reason to believe that it had ever been exercised by any means
less solemn and notorious than a public proclamation. And
although the instrument by which Georgia claimed an extension of her limits to the northern boundary of that territory,
was of no more authority or solemnity than that by which
it was supposed to have been taken from her, it was-otherwiqe with South Carolina. Her territory had been ektended to that limit by a solemn grant from the crown, to the
lords proprietors, from whom, in fact, she had wrested it by,
a revolution, even before the rights of the proprietors had
been bought out by the crown.
But this is not the material fact in the casq, it is this,
that this limit was claimed and asserted by both of those
States in the declaration of independence, and the right to
it was established by the most solemn of all international
apts, the treaty of peace. It has never been admitted by
the United States, that they acquired any thing by way of
cession from Great Britain, by that treaty. It has been
viewed only as a recognition of pre-existing rights, and on
that principle, the soil and sovereignty within their acknQwledged limits, were as much theirs at the declaration of independence as at this hour. By.rpference to the treaty, it
will be found, that it amounts to a simple recognition of the
independence and the limits of the United States, without
any language purporting a cession, or relinquishment of

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
right, on the part of Great Britain. In the last article of
treaty of Ghent, will b& found a provision respecting
Harcourt grants of land made in the islands then.n dispute between
Gailard. the two States, which affords an illustration of this doctrine.
'By that article a stipulation is made in favour of grants before the war, but none for those which were made during
the war.
And such is unquestionably the law of nations. War is a
suit prosecuted by the sword; and where the question to
be decided is one of original claim to territory, grants of
soil madeflag rante bello by the party that fails, can only de..
xive validity from treaty stipulations. It is not necessary
here to consider the rights of the conqueror in case of actual coifquest - since the views previously presented put
the acquisition of such rights out of this case.
Tht remaining question is, whether the parties plaintiffs
have been establiqhed in their rights by any act or treaty of
the United States.
The treaty of peace contains no stipulation in their favour. Nor does the treaty with Georgia, since all the reservations there made in favour of British or Spanish grants,
and inchoate titles, are expressly confined to the case of
actual settlers. But the spontaneous bounty of the United
States has gone further, and confirmed a great variety of
questionable titles, emanating from British and Spanish authority.
Is this one of the titles embraced within the provisions
of the statutes passed upon this subject? It is obvious that
it is not.
It is true, that the-act of the 3d of March, 1803, although
making no express provision in favour of British or Spanish
grants unaccompanied with possession, does seem to pro.
ceed upon the implication that they are valid; recognising
the principle that a change ofsovereignty produces no change
in individual property, yet it imputes to them only a modifled validity, since by the 5th section it imposes a positive
necessity opon the proprietors to. record such grants, and
makes expressly void, all the rights claimed under the three
first-sections of that act, or the Georgia treaty, if the duty
sh-imposed be not complied with. And with regard to all
1827.

Sthe

OF THE UNITED STATES.

529

1827.
other evidences of title not recorded in the time limited,
declares, that they shall never be admitted in evidence
Harcourt
V.
• from the United States.
against any grant derrwed
The first section of the supplementary act of 27th of Gaillard.
March, 1804, extends the time for recording British grants,
and vests in the board of commissioners a power of examining, and confirming the claims, to be filed under its provisions, as extensive as that given by the previous act over
the rights claimed under the cession from Georgia, or the
three first sections of that act.
But the grant to Harcourt appears neither to have been
recorded, nor passed upon by the commissioners, it has,
therefore, nothing to claim from the bounty of the United
States; and that provision in the 5th section of the act of
1803, which forbids its being reucived in evidence as against
American grants, would certainly have operated against it
in any case clearly within the provisions of that act. Here,
it is contended, that the Court anticipated the question, and
rejected the grant, before it was possible that the question
could arise, whether the same land had passed under an
American grant.
On this subject, it must be observed, that neither of the
acts of 1803, or 1804, contains an express recognition of
the validity of any British grants beside those which were
accompanied with possession; and, for that reason, coming
within the Georgia treaty, and those which should be confirmed by the commissioners under the first section of the
act of 1804, with regard to which there seems to be a very
general power given to that board. All others must rest
upon their validity according to the principles of the modern law of nations. Upon these principles, it has been
shown, that the grant to Harcourt was invalid, and, if so, it
was not admissible as evidence to sustain the plaintifPs action under any circumstances. The rule, therefore, applies
to this case, that a pliintiff must recover by the strength of"
his own title, not the weakness of his adversary's, for which
reason, we think the grant was properly rejected, and that
tbe judgment below must be affirmed, with costs;
VOL. XII.

67

