oF THE UNITED STATES.
I ,>27

~xh
V.

Jackson.

LPnACTICE.)
WjzNNs Heirs ago ,t JACKSON and-Othen.

Thlie judgment of the highest Court of law of a State, deciding ii,
favour of the validity of a statute of a State, drawn in question
on the ground of its being repugnant to the constitution of the
United States, is not afnal judgment within the 25th section of
the Judiciary Act of 1789, ch. eo., if the suit has been remanded
to the inferior State Couit, vhere it onginateo, for further proEeedings, not inconsistent with the judgment of the highest Court

ERROR to the Court of Appeals of Kentucky
This was an ejectment, originally brought in the Harrison
Circuit Court of the State of Keitucky,.by the plaintiffis :,
error, against the defendants irt error, and judgment being
rendered for the plaintitfs, the cause was carried, by writ of
error, to the Curt of Appeals, being the highest Court of
law and equity of that State. The judgment was reversed
in the Court of Appeals. and the cause remanded to the
Harrison Circuit Court, for further proceedings, not incon'sistent with the decision of the Court of Appeals. Whereupon the plaintiffs sued out their writ of error under the
25th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, c. 20. and

brought the cause before this Court, as being a suit where
was drawn in qu6stion the validity of a statute of the State
of Kentucky, on the ground of its being repugnant to the
constitution of the United States, and the decision being in
favour of its validity.
Mr. Wickliffe moved to quash the writ of error, upon the .Feb. 1st.
ground, that although the decision of the Court of Appeals
was in favour of the validity of the statute which had been
drawn n question as being repugnant to the constitution of
the United States, the judgment of that Court was not " a
final judgment" within the true meaning of the 25th section

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.

of the Judiciary Act of 1789, ch. 20. the case having been

~ remanded to-the Circuit Court of Harfison for further pro-

Post Master ceedings.a
General
V.
Early.

Motion allowed.

[CONSTITUTIoNA.

LANK.1

THE POST MASTER GENERAL OP THE UNITED STATES

agatnst EARLY and Others.
The Circuit Courts of the Umon have jurisdiction, under the constitution, andi the acts of April 80th, 1810, ch. 969. s. 29., and of
March 1d, 1815, ch. 782. s. 4., of suits brought in the name of

",
the Post Master General of the United States," on bonds given
to the Post Master General by a deputy Post Master, conditioned

"to pay all moneys that shall come to his hands for the postages of
whatever is by liw chargeable with postage, to the Post Master
General of the United States for the time bei, deducting, only
the commission and allowances made by law for his care, trouble,
and charges, in managing the said office," &c.
The Post Master General has authority to take such a bond, under
the different acts establishing and regulating the Post Office department, and particularly under the act of April *Both, 1810, ch.
-6. s. 29. 42.
THIS was an action of debt, commenced in the Circuit
Court for the district of Georgia, by the District Attorney
of the United States for that district, in the name of the
Post Master General of the United States, oanst the defendants, on a bond executed by them, in Juti 1820, to the
Post Master General of the United St~tes, the condition of
which, after reciting that Eleazer Early (one of the coobligors and defendants in the suit) is Post Master at Savannah. provides, that if he shall perform the duties of his
office, "and shall pay all moneys that shall come to his
hands for the postages of whatever
is by law chargeable
I
er He cited Gibbons v. Ogden, 6 What. Rep. 448.

