.-.

S IN THE SUPREME COUR't-

1827.
Clark
V.

[CoitolATIOS.]

Corporation
of

Washington.

CLARK agamnst THE MAYOR, ALDERMEN,

and COmMO-

COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF WASHINGTON.

Municipal corporations, acting within the limits of the powers conferred upon them by the Legislature, in the exercise of a special
franchise granted to them, and the perfoilnance of a special duty
imposed upon them, are responsible for the acts and contracts of
their agents, duly appointed and authorized, sithin the scope of
the authority of such agents in the same manner as other corporations and private iur'viduals are responsible on their promises.
express and implied.
Where, by the charter granted by Congress to the city of Washington, the corporation was empowered "to authorize the drawing
of lotteries," for effiecting certain improvements in the city, and
upon certain terms and conditions Held, that the corporation was
liable to the holder of a ticket in such a lottery for a prize drawn
against its number, although the managers appointed by the corporation to superintend such lottery were empowered to sell, and
had sold the entire lottery to a lottery dealer for a gross sum, who
was, by his agreement -with them, to execute the details of the
scheme as to the sale of the tickets, the drawings, and the payment of the prizes.
It seem., that the power granted in the charter' "to authorize the
drawing of lotteries,"' cannot be exercised so as to discharge the
corporation from its liability, either by granting the lottery, or selling the privilege to others, or in any other manner; but the lotteries to be authorized by the corporation must be drawn under its
superintendence, for its own account, and on its own responsibility.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Columbia.
This was an action of assumpsit, brought by the plaintiff
in error, to recover of the defendants the amount of a prize
drawn in a lottery called "the fifth class of the National
Lottery." A verdict was found for the plaintiffin the Court
below, subject to the opinion of the Court, on a case agreed,
on which judgment was rendered for the defendants, and the
cause was brought by writ of error to this Court.

By the constitution of the United States, Congress has

Or THE UNITED' STATES.
1827.
power to exercise exclusive legislation in all cases whatsoever over the district-, which being ceded by particular States,
Clark
may become the seat of the government of the Union. The
District of Columbia having been ceded for that purpose,,Corportmon
Of
Congress pagsed an a'ct, creating a municipal corporation for
Washington.
the city of Washington, and- by the adt of the 4th May,
1812, for amending the charter, gave the corporation
"1full power and authority to authorize the drawing of lotteries for effectitig any important improvement mathe city,
which the ordinary funds or revenue thereof will not accomplish; prowded, that the amount to be raised in each year
shall not exceed the sum of 10,000 dollars, and provide&
also, that the object for which the money is int6nded to be
raised, shall be first submitted to the President of the United
States, and shall- be approved' by him." For the purpose
of carrying this power into execution, ten successive reso-.
lu'tions were passed by the corporation, the first of winch
was approved by. the President of the United States on the
23d of November, 1812, and the- last on the 2Ist of May,
1821, each of them for raising 10,000 dollars by lotteryfor
the several objects of endowing two public school hdtases,
on the Lancasterian system, of building a work house and
penitentiary,' and a town house or city.hall On the 24th.
of July, 1815, the corporation passed an ordinance for car.
rying into effect the three first of the above resolutions, and
appointed certain managers by name, viz..John Davidson,
Thomas H. Gillis, Andrew Way, Jr. Moses YoungL, William
Brent, Daniel Rapine, and Samuel .. Smallwood, whose duty
it was made to agree on and propose a. scheme ok schemes
of a lottery or lottenes,'to raise the sum of' 30,000 dollam,
(clear of all expenses,) and to sell and dispose of the tickets
therein to the best advantage, with the least possible delay;
and diligently to attend the drawing of the said lottery or
lotteries, which should bein the city of Washington; and
within 60 days -afterthe drawings of the same, respective ',
(the time of each drawing not to'exceed two years,) to pay
anckshtisfy thefortunate adventurers for prizes; and, within
70 dyey to pay over the balance, after 'deductitig all necessary 'expenses, into the city treasury; and. giing t6-vaid
managers 'full power and. authoity to appoint'all necpar.y
VoL. XI1.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUIRT
1827.
v
Clark
V.
Corporation

agents, clerks, and servants, to do and perform all such acts
and things as might be necessary to carry into effect the provisions of the ordinance. Another ordinance was passed on

the 17th of November, 1818, for the purpose of carrying
into effect the 4th, 5th, 6th, and 7thi of the aforesaid resoluWashington.tions, by which (inter alia) the mayor was authorized
to appoint seven citizens to act as managers for the purpose aforesaid, whose duty was declared to be to agree on a scheme of
a lottery to raise the sum of 40,000 dollars, (clear of expenses,) and to sell the, said lottery, or dispose of the'tickets
therein to the best advantage, with the least possible delay,
and diligently to attend the drawing of the said lottery,
which should be in the city of Washington : Provided,however, that if the said managers, or a majority of them, should
sell the said lottery, the individual or individuals purchasing
the same, should have the power of making a scheme for the
aforesaid lottery, and within 60 days after the drawing, (the
time of drawing not to exceed one year,) to pay and satisfy
the fortunate adventurers for prizes; and within 70 days, to
pay over the balance, after deducting all necessary-expenses,
into the city treasury; with the like power and authority to
the managers, as in the former act, to appoint all necessary
agents, clerksT and servants, &c. The mayor appointed,
inder the authority of the last mentioned act, seven citizens
to act as managers for'the purposes aforesaid, the same as
those appointed by name in the former act, excbpt thatj in
the last, Igoger C. Weightman takes the place of Samuel
N. Smallwood.
On the 25th of -October, 1819, another ordinance was
passed, by which the managers appointed under the ordinance of 1815, were empowered to sell and dispose of tffe
lotteries to which that ordinance refers, or so much thereof
as yet remains to be drawn, in such classes, and on such
terms and conditions, as should appear to them -right and
expedient.
In pursuance of the ordinances of 1815 and 1819, the
managers sold to David Gillespie, of New-York, a lottery
called the "Fifth Class of the Grand National Lottery," for
the sun'of 10,000 dollars, to.be paid before the commence-ment of the drawing thereof; and the following articles of
agreement were entered into for that purpose,
of

OF THE UNITED STArEs.

*Memorandum of an agreement, made and entered into
1827.
this 4th day of May. 1821, between Roger C. Weightman,
Clark
John Davidson. Thomas H. Gillis, Andrew Way,jun., Moses
V.
Young, William Brent, and Damel Rapine, as managers of Corporation
of
the lotteries authorized by an act of the Board of Aldermen
and Board of Common Council of the city of Washington, Washington.
for tlhe purposes therein mentioned, approved July 24, 1815.
of the one part, and David Gillespie, of the city of NewYork, in the State of New-York, of the other part: Whereas,
by an act of the Board of Aldermen and Board of Common
Council of the said city of Washington, approved October
25, 1819, supplementary to the act aforesaid, the said
managers are authorized and empowered ta sell and dispose
of the said lotteries, in such classes, and on such terms and
conditions, as shall appear to them right and expedient, and
according to the true intent and meaning of the act aforesaid; and that the said managers, for the purpose of raising
the sum of 10,000 dollars, in conformity with the provisions
of the said first mentioned act, and in pursuance of the
power and authority in them vested by the said supplementary act, have agreed to sell and dispose of, to the said David Gillespie, a lottery, denominated the Fifth Class of the
Crand :National Lottery,to be drawn according to the scheme
hereunto annexed; and the said David Gillespie, in consideration thereof, hereby agrees to pay to the said managers
the sum of 10,000 dollars, before the commencement of the
drawing the said lottery, or class, at his own prop.er cost,
charge and expense; to pay and defray all, and all manner
of costs, charges, and expenses of the said lottery, or class.
excepting the expense of drawing the same, and to draw
the same in the city of Washington, in the presence of the
said'managers, and to finish and conclude the said drawing
within two years from the date hereof, and to pay all the
prizes within sixty days from the completion of the said
drawing. It is further understood and agreed, by and between the said parties, that the said David Gillespie is to
provide, a'his own cost and expense, two competent clerks,
to assist in the drawing of the said lottery, or class; and to
execute and dejiver, before the commencement of the draring of the said lottery, or class, and within thirty days from
the date hereof, to the said managers, a bond, with such se-

44

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1827.
k

Clark

curity as may be approved by them, in the penal sum of
35,000 do'tars, conditioned .for the true, fair, and faithful
'drawigof the said lottery or class, and according to the

V.

Corporation said scheme; fdr the punctual payment of all prizes, and
of
for conducting the said lottery or c!ass fairly and honestly,
Washington. and according to this agreement, and the true intent ana
meaning of the said acts of the said Board of Aldermen
and Board of Common Council."
The bond with security, as required by the above agreement, was given by Gillespie on the 28th of May, 1821.
On the 22d of the iiiome month, an ordinance of the corporation was passed, authorizing the managers to appoint a
president, whose duty it should be, in addition to the duties
imposed by the ordinances of 1815 and 1819, to sign all contracts with the concurrence of a majority of the managers,
and to sign all the lottery tickets, in every scheme or schemes
-sold'by them. The 2d section of the ordinance allowed
each of tl~e managers of the city lotteries 3 dollars each
day he had been, or should be employed, and the 7th section enacts that this compensation, "except for the class
now contracted for," should be provided for and paid out of
the proceeds of lotteries thereafter contracted for.
Under this authority, Thomas H. Gillis was appointed
president, who signed the following ticket, No. 9929, on
which the suit was brought, and which was endorsed, "U ndrawn 29th day over. D. Gillespie, per J. James."/ The
ticket was purchased by the plaintiff, from an agent of Gillespie, at Richmond, Virginia, and drew the prize of 100,000
dollars, in the fifth class of the lottery.

$100,000 Highest Prize.
Nvilliam Brent,
John Davidsons

Iva

"1

N

Thomas H. Gils

Andrew
,J.o.
Moses young,
Daniel Rapine,
R. C. Wightman,

-

9

2929
.

S

NATIONAL LOTTERY.

Z

This Ticket will entitle the Possessor to such Prize as may be drawn to its

Number, if demanded within twelve months after the completion of the
Drawing: Subhectto a deduction of Fifteen per cent. Payable syty daya

g

after the Drawing is finished.
WJashisoo City, Fcbruary, 1IML

.

By.autlwrity of
Caixgress.

.

ArO.
.Piaaagc

=-

OF THE UNITED STATES,

The drawing of the lottery was advertised in two newspapers pinnted in the city of Washington; in the National

1827.
"

Clark
Intelligencer from the 18th of May, 1821, and in the WashV.
ington City Gazette from the 17th of July, 1821, until the Corporation
of
&ompletion of the lottery. These advertisements exhibited Washington.
Gillesand
managers
the
the scheme agreed upon between
pie, and annexed to their contract, gave notice of the time
when the drawing would take place, of the nunmber of days
to be employed in the drawings, and that they would be
completed as soon as possible, under the superintendance of
the managers, whose names were annexed. To each of
these advertisements was appended an advertisement signed
by Gillespie as "agent for the managers," for the sale of
tickets at -his "Fortunate office, Pennsylvania Avenue,
Washington City." The lottery was drawn in pursuance of
the advertisements, and the managers superintended the
drawing. In itu'progress a postponement took place, and
an advertisement anpeared, purporting to be signed by
three of the managers, giving notice of the postponement.
and its cause Another advertisement soon afterwards followed, purporting to be signed by the President, by order of
the board, giving notice when the drawing would recommence.
As soon as the scheme was agreed on, all the tickets,
amounting to 50,000 in number, were delivered by the Edanagers to Gillespie, some of them signed, and others un.
signed, by the President, the latter of which it was necessary
to take to him to be signed before they could be sold. Some
time after the drawing commenced, the president refused to
sign tickets unless an equivalent in prize tickets, either paid
or taken in by Gillespie, or drawn on hand, or unless the
notes of individuals which Gillespie had taken, payable to
himsqlf, for tickets sold, were deposited with them. When
Gillespie's clerk and agent, Webb, presented tickets to be
signed, he was obliged, at the same time, to deposit such
prize tickets or promissory notes; and, on some occasions,
when tickets were called for, and wanted, the managers refused to sign the same for want of such equivalent. The
amount of the prize tickets so deposited with the managers
was about 141,779 dollars. The managers, on such occa-

tASES IN THE SUPREME COURI

1827.
Clark

sions, objected to trusting Gillespie with the disposal of the
tickets much beyond the penalty of his bond, and Webb,
who was a witness in the cause, understood. from the con-

V.

Corporation versations and transactions betweei, the partes at the time,

of
that this precaution arose from doubts which had been cirWashington. culated respecting Gillespie's solvency.
Jan. 26 ta.

This cause was argued by the Attorney General and Mr.
Webster, for the plaintiff, and by Mr. Jones, for the defendant .

On the part of the plaintiff, it was insisted, that the power
of authorizing the drawing of lotteries, was a franchise,
which the city corporation could not sell so as to avoid their
liability for the abuse of the trust and confidence reposed in
them by the legislature. It was admitted, that, in general,
municipal corporations are not liable to be sued on contracts made by their agents. The suit must be brought
against the agents. But that proceeds on the grounds that
these quasi corporations have no funds, but where a grant
is made, conferring a special franchise, and imposing special
duties, there is the same responsibility in them as in any incorporated banking or insurance company. Here the contract was with the managers, as the agents of the corporation, acting within the scope of their authority.a Where
special duties are imposed upon corporations, which can
only be performed through the instrumentality of their
agents, the law will raise an implied assumpsit under the
same circumstances as in dealings with private individuals.
It is enough to show a ratification of the acts of the agent,
by receiving the benefit of the act, or otherwise. In short,
they are responsible, under these cmrcumstances, for their
promises, whether express or implied, in writing or by parol.b And, it was contended, that the fact of .their contract
a 15 Johns. Rep. "1.7 Cranclh, 299. 2 Taunt. 295. 12 Fes.
552.
b 7 Mass. Rep. 169. 16 East's Rep. 6. 3 Mass. Rep. 564. 7
Cranch,299. 2 Liverm. Ag 198. 1 Bro. 0h.469. 18 Mass. Rep.
572. 15 Johns. Rep. 1. 10 Mass. Rep. 597. 15 Mass. Rep. 125.
Fowlev. Corporation of Alexaridna, 11 Wf'heat. Rep. 320.

2 Taunt.

595. 15Fast'sRep. 408. SF. IYis. 42. Cowp. 86. 4Taunt. 576.
in note. a Ver. 14t.. Pale], Ag. 14--145. s Stark. Lv. 161.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
being cloathed with the forms of a legislative or political

1827.

act of the corporation, or the authority being conferred on %
Clark
their agents by such an act, could make no difference in reV.
spect to their liability. But as the principal grounds of Corporation
of
argument on the part of the plaintiff are fully stated in the
Washington
to
superfluous
deemed
been
has
it
Court,
the
opinion of
enlarge upon them.

On the part of the defendants, it was argued, that the
documentary evidence given by the plaintiff was inadmissible, and incompetent to charge the defendants in the present action. 1st. Because, if the papers given in evidence
imported any contract chargeable on the corporation through
their supposed agents, the managers, or through their supposed agent Gillespie, no foundation was laid for their admission by any preliminary evidence to authenticate them
as the acts either of the managers or of Gillespie, far less
of the corporation ; but the papers (all that are any wise essential, being taken from newspapers, or other printed papers) were left to their own internal and unvouched evidence
of their authenticity, as the acts of the persons whom they
purport to implicate. 2d. Because, if authenticated as
the acts of Gillespie, there is nothing to connect him with
the managers in the relation of principal and agent, but
that relation is assumed from the mere acts of the supposed
agent himself. 3d. Because, whatever privity may be inferred, as between those persons, there is nothing to connect
the corporation with the supposed managers, in the relation
of principal and agent. The authority of the mayor to appoint seven managers of a certain lottery described in the
law which gives him that authority, is shown, seven persons
are afterwards found professing to act as managers of a lottery, in the terms and description of which no reference
whatever is made to any lottery authorized by the corporation; and from these premises alone are inferred, (1.) the
actual appointment by the mayor of these same managers.
and (2.) the identity of the lottery contemplated by the corporation law, and. that promulgated in. the scheme of the
managers,and their alleged agent, Gillespie. 4th. Because,
setting aside all the preceding objections, the alleged agency
of the managers, or nf any agents, clerks. or cervants, of

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.
iauthority

Clark
V.

h4ir appointment, purports not, from the terms of their
as shown by the plaintiff himself, to bave extended
to the making pf contracts for and in behalf of the corpo-

Corporation ration, or in any manner to bind the corporation as the guaranty or insurer of the due payment of prizes, far less of
of
Washington. the solvency or punctuality of any lottery contractor or undertaker; but such agency is plainly and necessarily excluded by the nature of the official relation between them,
and by the terms of the only authority for predicating the
existence of any kind of agency. The authority of the
managers is clearly limited to the performance of certain
public duties, and to the exercise of certain ministerial
functions prescribed by law to the. officers or ministers of
the law, the true and only relation between them and the
corporation, is that which subsists between the legislative
or paramount authority that enacts the law, and tht ministerial functionaries who execute it; not that of principal and
agent in a commercial sense. 5th. The same objection lies
to the nature and, extent of the alleged agency of Gillespie
for the managers; *hich must he presumed to have been
limited to the official and prescribed duties of the latter, as
ministerial ftinctionaries of the law.
No privity of contract, as between the plaintiff anil
the corporation, could be inferred from the evidence; but
such privity was clearly and positively excluded" 1st. By
the nature and objects of the power communicated to the
corporation by the amended charter; a power to authorize,
not to exhibit and draw lotteries, at the risk and charge of
their constituents; and for important objects of public improvement, to which the ordinary revenues were inadequate; not as a source of revenue, or fiscal aggrandizement,
far less as a gulf to swallow up all the subsisting sourcs of
revenue in lottery speculations. 2d. By the terms, intent,
and spirit of all the corporate acts in execution of the power, all of wnich strictly conform to the scope and policy
of the paramount law, by which the authority was vested.
3d. By the fact that Gillespie had purchased the privilege,
,in ntegro, to exhibit and draw the lottery, at his own risk
and charge, and for his own exclusive. emolument; for
which he had paid a gross sum, neither to be enlarged or

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1827.
diminished by, nor in any manner dependent upon the
event of the lottery. The entire scheme was his, and at
Clark
his disposal, subject merely to a superintending vigilance
V.
and control of municipal police, intended to protect the Corporation
of
of the_Washington,
and impositions in the conduct
public from frauds
_
.
lottery; but. by no means, to guaranty the payment of
prizes, or, in other words, the solvency and punctuality of
Gillespie. 4th. By another fact, that the plaintiff purchased his ticket of one James, the keeper of a miscellaneous lottery office in Richmond, for Gillespie, and having
no sort of connexion with the corporation or its managers,
nor with any lottery authorized by the one, and conducted
by the other, but as a general vender of lottery tickets,
who might, in-the course of his trade, occasionally buy or
sell tickets in this as in other lotteries; and so the contract
-was solely between the plaintiff and James, who sold the
ticket and received the price, not as the agent of the corporation or its maniagers, but as the agent of Gillespie individually. The lottery ticket, on which the plaintiff founds his
claim, imports, m terrnirm, no contract whatever between
the.corporation and the possessor; nor any assurance or
invitation to the ticket-buying public to trust to the corporate funds-or credit for the payment of " such prize as may
be drawn to its number ;" nor, indeed, the remotest allusion to any interpst or concern of the corporation in the
scheme. If any such contract, invitation, or allusion, be
involved in the terms, it must be completely latent, and
only to be developed by extrinsic facts and circumstances.
All the facts and circumstances adduced to explain the
relations and bearings of those terms, concur in fixing
upon Gillespie the primary obligation to pay the prize, in
virtue of his contract, express or implied, as the exhibiter
and proprietor of the lottery, and vender of the ticket.
Then, if there be any contract, express or implied, between
the corporation, or the managers and vendee, to see to the
payment of the prize, it must be as collateral guaranty for
Gillespie. But no fact is deducible, from the evidence,
which goes to fix either upon the-managers, or, through their
agency, upon the corporation, the relative duties and obligation of such collateral guaranty.
Vot. XII.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
As to the managers; if they be under any obligation
see to the payment of prizes, it must be either because it
was one of the official duties prescribed to them by the
Clark
V.
Corporation terms of their appointment under the law from which
of
they derive their authority, or because they voluntarily asWashington. sumed it in addition to the duties devolved on them trlute
1827.

'to

officii.
Then, Ist. No such duty is imposed upon them by the
nature of their office and functions, 2d. If it be, it is not
in the nature of an absolute obligation or xduty, that makes
them liable, in all events, for any failure to fulfil its end and
aim, but of a relative duty, which, by the express terms of
the law that creates it, exacts of them nothing but " that
they will diligently and impartially exercise and perform the
duties and authority vested in them." 3d. No breach of
this duty, arising either from negligence or design, is imputed to them ; but, on the contrary, by the plaintiff's own
showing, they exerted great care, zeal, and diligence, (if,
indeed, they did not take upon themselves gratuitous labour
and trouble,) in order to secure the rights and interests of
adventurers in the lottery, all that is imputed to them is,
the mere failure to accomplish the end and aim of their exertions. 4th. But if the grossest breach of this duty, in
act and intent, were imputed to them, they would be amenable for their official misdemeanour to the corj~oration
only; or, if at all responsible to third persons, it could not be
as collateral guaranties of Gillespie's contract, nor for any
other duty ex contracmu. but ex delicto, for consequential
damage, unless in possession of the fund out of which the
prizes should have been paid; and then they might have
been liable, jointly or severally, according to the nature of
their possession, to an action for money had and received
for the use of the persons entitled to prizes. But this cannot be pretended in the present case. 5th. No voluntary
assumption of any obligation upon themselves, beyond the
limits of their prescribed authority and duties, can be pre.
sumed, and any express contract, beyond those limits, is
not pretended.
As to the corporation; if there be any contract in

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1827.
the case, it must impose an obligation, either primary and
.
absolute, to pay the prize, or secondary and contingent, as
Clark
declaraplaintiff's
The
Gillespie.
for
guaranty
collateral
V.
tion lays a contract of the first description only, and ties Corporation
of
him down to the proof of such a contract, made through
I Washington
the agency of these managers, and in no other form, while
his actual proof, and every circumstance in the case, exclude and repudiate it, by fixing upon Gillespie the primary
and absolute obligation, and. indeed, equally exclude and
repudiate any contract of the second description. If the
managers held out any assurance or invitation to the ticketbuying public, or otherwise contracted any obligation, absolute or contingent, to see to the payment of prizes, it must
have been either rnrtute officii, as one of the specific duties
prescribed to them by the law of their appointment, or as
one gratuitously undertaken by them, and not inherent to
the nature of their office and functions, either way, it was
an obligation contracted, proyprojure, and attaching responsibility to tljem personally and individually.
Then, 1st. For the due performance of the prescribed
duties, inherent to the nature of theiir office, they are direct.
ly responsible, on their bond, to the corporation,Yrom which
it is impossible to infer such an inversion in the order of responsibility, as that the managers should have made that
very corporation, to which they are themselves amenable,
liable for theii own transgressions of such duties. 2dly. If
(as is quite clear from the plaintiff's own showMg no action
lay against the managers, either because the seeing to the
payment of prizes was no part of their prescribed duties, or
because they "diligently and impartially exercised and performed the duties and authority vested in them," it follows,
necessarily, that no action lies against the corporation.
Though the converse of the proposition be utterly untenable, since they may have contracted an obligation either inherent to the nature of their office, or voluntarily superinduced, the violation of which was either an official misdemeanour, or a breach of contract, for neither of which
could the corporation have been held anywise responsible.
Idly. Tf the corporation were chargeable. under any circmm-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
stances, or in any form of action, for the misconduct of the
1827.
'managers,
in the course of their official or ministerial duties,
Clark
it could only be ex detirlo, or quasz ex contractu, in an action
V.

Corporation for consequential dquiages, and not in an action, like the

of
present, purely ex contractu. 4thly. But no action could be
Washington. conceived, to make the corporation responsible to third persons for a wrong done to itself, for t transgression by its
own officers agaifist its own authority, in the breach of a positive duty to itself, voluntarily prescribed, in the exercise
of- its own legislative, discretion, to its own officers, and enforced by adequate sanctions of its own institution. 5thly.
As an obligation not strictly imposed upon the managers,
Mruls officii, it is impossible to contend that the corporation
can be responsible, in this or any other conceivable form of
action, for that or any other act of its officers, without the
prescribed limits and sphere of their duties and authority.
.Feb. 77t.

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This cause depends on the liability of the corporation to
pay the ticket on which the suit was instituted. In considering this question, that part of the charter which contains
a grant of power on the subject of lotteries, the ordinances
of the corporate body in execution of the power, and the
proceedings of its agents, must be reviewed.
The charter enacts, "that the corporation shall have full
power and authority" "to authorize the drawing of lotteries,
for effecting any important improvement in the city, which
the ordinary funds or revenue thereof will not accomplish;
provided, that the amount to be raised in each year shall
not exceed the sum of 10,000 dollars. And provided also,
that the object for which the money is intended to be raised,
shall be first submitted to the President of the United States.
and shall be approved of by him."
Some doubt has been expressed whether this power is to
Nature of the
power vested be exercised by drawing the lottery, on account and at the
in the corporation.
risk of the corporation, or by selling the privilege to individuals, and authorizing them to draw it on their own account. This doubt is founded on the word "authorize."
Cofigress, we are told, has not granted the power to draw lot"teries. but to "authormie" their being drawn

OP THE UNITED STATES.
We cannot admit the correctness of this. criticism. We 1827.
do not admit thejustice of that construction, which denies to
Clark
the corporatioi) the power of causing the lottery to be drawn
V.
on its own account. A corporation aggregate can legislate Corporation
of
within its prescribed limits, but can carry its laws into exeWashington.
a
directing
act
lfgislative
Any
age'nts.
its
cution only by
lottery to be drawn, is literally an act "to authorize the
drawing of lotteries."
The object for which the lottery may be authorized, is
"any important improvement in the city." Its produce is
to come in aid of the ordinary funds or revenue thereof, and
"the amount to be raised in each year shall not exceed the
sum of 10,000 dollars." The language of the charter is
not that the sum to be brought into the treasury of the city
shall not exceed the sum of 10,000 dollars, but that "the
amount to be raised shall not exceed that sum." This language, it is admitted, comprehends the net proceeds of the
lottery, but it comprehends all those net proceeds, and does
not allow a partition of profit, so as to retain 10,(00 dollars
for the treasury, and reserve a residue for others. The sinany imgle object, for which the lottery can be drawn, is ",
portant improvement in the city,' not the emolument of individuals. , The motive with Congress for this restriction on
the amount is, not to limit the sum to come into the city
treasury, but to limit the extent of gaming, which the corporation may authorize. Congress must have perceived,
that to bring 10,000 dollars into the treasury, 6ither "the
amount raised must exceed that sum," or the lottery must be
drawn on account of the city, for no man will purchase a
lottery from which he can make nothing.
The counsel of the plaintiff in error have remarked, and
the remark is certainly entitled to attention, that, in describing the power, Congress has used no words indicating the
idea, that the corporation mightgrant or sell lotteries. " To'
authorize the drawing of lotteries," is, as has been said, an
appropriate term for a corporate act, instituting a lottery for
the benefit of the city - but if the granting a lottery to others,
or a sale of the privilege to others, had been'in the mind of
Congress, it is to be presumed that some words wculd haw
been used, indicating the idea.
I

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
There is great weight, too, in the argument, that it is a
trust, and an important trust, confided to the corporation itself, for the purpose of "effecting important improvements
Clark
V.
Corporation in the city, " and ought, therefore, to be executed under the
immediate aithority and inspection of the corporation. It
of
Washington. is reasonable to suppose that Congress, when granting a
,

1827.

-%

power to authorize gaming, would feel some solicitude respecting the fairness with which the power should be used,
and would take as many precautions against its abuse, as was
compatible with its beneficial exercise. Accordingly, we
find a limitation on the amount to be raised, and on the object for which the lottery may be authorized. It is to be for
"any important improvement in the city, which the ordinary
funds or revenue thereof will not accomplish ;" and is subjected to thejudgment of the President of the United States.
The power thus cautiously granted, is deposited with the
corporation itself, without an indication that it is assignable.
It is tobe exercised, like other corporate powers, by the agents
of the corporation, under its control. While it remains where
Congress has placed it, the character of the corporation affords some security against its abuse ; some securit) that
no other mischief will result from it, than is inseparable
from the. thing itself But if the management, control, and
responsibility, may be transferred to any adventurer who
will purchase. all the security for fairness, which is furnished
bIy character and responsibility, is lost.
We think, then, that the most obvious, if not the exclusive
construction of the charter, is, that the lotteries to be authorized by the corporation, are to be drawn under its superintendence and on its own account.
We will next advert to the measures which have been
adopted for carrying this power into execution.
Ten successive resolutions were passed, the first approved on the 23d of November, 1812, and the last on the
21st of May, 1821, each of them for raising the sum of
10,000 dollars, by lottery, f6r particular improvements mentioned-in the resolution.
The ordinance of the 24th of July, 1815, which was
passed for carrying the three first of these resolutions into
effect, contemplates and authorizes lotteries to be drawri

OF THE UNITED STATES.
entirely under the management, for the benefit, and on the
1827.
responsibility of the corporation. Seven managers are ap- '.v '
Clark
pointed by the ordinance, and they, or a majority, are autho.
V.
rized to employ agents, fill up vacancies in their own body, Corporation
of
and to do every act which maybe necessary for carry m g its
Washington.
provisions into effect.
The ordinance passed on the 17th of November, 1818,
forcarrying the 4th, 5th, 6th and 7th resolutions into effect,
authorizes the may or to appoint seven managers, whose duty
it was to agree on a scheme, to sell the said lottery, or dispose of the tickets to the best advantage. A proviso is inserted, that, should the lottery be sold, the purchasers may
make the scheme; but the ordinance enacts generally, (and
the enactment makes no distinction between a sale of the
lottery itself, and a disposition of the tickets,) that it shall
lie the duty of the managers to attend diligently to the drawing of the lottery, and to pay the fortunate adventurers for
prizes drawn by them. The ordinance, however, adds the
farther duty of paying over the balance, after deducting all
necessary expenses, into the city treasury. From this it has
been inferred, that these provisions are made for the contingency that the tickets should be disposed of for the benefit of the city, and are entirely inapplicable to the contingency of an entire sale. Certainly, in the event of an
entire sale, the balance, after deducting all necessary expenses, would not be payable into the treasury, unless we
suppose it to mean the balance of the sum for which the
lottery might be sold. But this is the only part of the
clause which is inapplicable to a lottery sold out and drawn
for the benefit of the purchaser.
In October, 1819, the managers appointed under the act
of 1815, were empowered to sell and dispose of the. lottenes to which that act refers, or so much thereof as yet remains to be drawn, in such classes, and on such terms and
conditions, as shall appear to them right and expedient.
The duty of the maivagers to superintend the drawing, and
to pay the prizes, is not changed by this act, unless the mere
power to sell implies such change.
The managers Eold to David Gillespie, of New-York, in
pursuance of the acts of 1815 and 1819, a lottery denomi.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

nated the 5th class of the Grand National Lottery, for the
of 10,000 dollars, to be paid before the commencement
of-the drawing the said lottery or class; and articles of
Clark
V.
Corporation agreement, in pursuance thereof. were executed on the 14th
day of May, 1821. The ticket held by the plaintiff is in
of
Washngton. this class.
1827.

Ssum

On the 22d of the same month, an ordinance was passed,
authorizing the managers to appoint a president, whose duty
it should be, in addition to the duties imposed by the acts of
1815 and 1819, to sign all contracts, with the concurrence
of a majority of the said managers, and to sign ill the lottery tickets in every scheme or schemes sold by them.
This ordinance recognises the duties prescribed by the
the acts of 1815 and 1819. Its 2d section allows each of
the managers of the city lotteries 3 dollars for each day he
has been or shall be employed, and the 7th section enacts
that this compensation, " except for the class now contracted for," shall be provided for and paid out of the proceeds of lotteries hereafter contracted for.
This act is understood to recognise it as a part of the
duty of the managers, to continue their superintendence of
the drawing of the very class which had been sold, and
which comprehended the ticket, that drew the prize for
which this suit is brought.
The defendant has excepted to the admissibility, as well
as sufficiency of the testimony offered by the plaintiff in the
Circuit Court, and the objection is made in general terms.
-We presume, however, that it cannot apply to the charter,
or to the resolutions and ordinances of the corporation.
Nor do we suppose that any exception was intended to be
made to the testimony which establishes the ownership of
the tickets, or to the admissibility of the deposition of Mr.
Webb. The first document on which a question can arise,
is the ticket. itself. Is this admissible in a suit against the
corporation.
Admissibility In considering this question, we must inquire into the conof the ticket in
nexion between the ostensible managers and the corporaevidence
against the

corporation.

tion.

"The persons who were held out as managers to superintend the drawing of the lottery comprehending this ticket,

OF TIE UNITED STATES.
1827.
were, with one exception, the same persons who were appointed in the ordinance of 1815, as managers for the lotteClark
V,
ries established by that act. The name of R. C. Weightman,
is substituted for that of S. N. Smallwood. No other change Corporation
of
appears. It is in proof that S. N. Smallwood was elected
mayor; and, as the managers have, by the ordinance, a right Washington
to fill up vacancies in their own body, their adting uniformly
with R. C. Weightman, is a proof that they had chosen him
to fill~the vacancy made by Mr. Smallwood.
But it is contended that this lottery was drawn under the
act of 1818, and there is no proof that the individuals who
appeared and acted as managers, bad any authority under
that act.
There is undoubtedl, some confusion in this part of the
case, and there is not much difictiity in ascribing it to its
real cause. The mayor was authorized by the ordinance
of 1818, to appoint managers to carry that act into execution, and the probability is, that he appointed the persons
whd were in offi'e under the appointment of the corpora.
tion. The fitness of this proceeding renders it probable;
and the subsequent proceedings of the corporation itself,
In a case
turn this probability almost into certainty.
where written evidence of appointm'ent is not in the power
of the plaintiff, if indeed it exists, circumstances must be
relied on to prove the fact, should it be deemed necessary.
The act of 1821 takes no notice of any appointment
under the act of t818, and makes it the duty of the managers, createdunder the act of 1815i to elect a president to
sign all contracts, "and to sign all the lottery tickets, in
every scheme orschemes sold by the said managersi" Class
No. 5, was then sold by these managers. Lotteries, under
seven resoluitions, to raise the sum of 70,000 dollars, were
either sold, or for sale, either in mass or in detail, under the
acts of 1815, 1818, and 1819. The language of this ordi,iance appears to extend to them all; and if it does, certainly
adniits the authority of the managers -appoitd under the
actof 1815, to extend to all. The 7th section of.the act
of 1821, which provides the fund for their compensation,
expressly excepts "the class now contrateol for." The,
contract for the 5th class was executed a few days before
,
VOL. Xl1.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.
v
Clark
V.

the passage of this ordinance, and it is difficult to resist the
conviction that the allusion is to this contract. These provisions in the ordinance of 1821 go far to estaftlish the au-

Corporation thority of these managers in this very c6se.

The receipt of

of
the purchase money under this very contract, is also a strong
Washington. circumstance in support of the authority of those who made

it. But we think the corporation has waived all exception
to the authority of the managers, by producing and relying
on their contract for the sale of this very l6ttery. That
body defends itself from the claim of the plaiitiff, by alleging that their managers sold this lottery. Their attorney
.produces the contract in Court, and insists that it exempts
his clients from all liability. Can he in the same cause deny
the authority of those who made it? We think the connexion between the managers and the corporation is esta-.
blished beyond controversy.
If the persons who made this contract, are the persons
appointed under the authority of the corporation, as managers for class No. 5, no doubt exists whether the ticket has
emanated from them. The ordinance of the 21st.of May,
1821, authorizes them to appoint a presidint from their own
body, whose duty it shall be "to sign all the lottery tickets
in every scheme or schemes sold by the said managers."
The scheme for the 5t4 class was annexed to the agreement
between Gilldspie and the managers, and has been produced
in Court with it. Mr. Webb proves that the ticket 2929, on
whwh this, suit was brought, was'-s!gned by T. H. Gillis,
whose name is subscribed to it, and that T. H. Gillis was
at that time president of the board of managers.
Liability. of It is then satisfactorily proved that the ticket was issued
the corporatioll fortbe and sold under the authority of the corporation, and was
prize.
consequently admissible in a suit brought against that body.
The remaining inquiry is, does it bind the defendants to pay
the prize it has drawn in the lottery 9
Had the managers, instead of selling the whole scheme
in mass, sold the tickets in .the usual manner, and received
the purchase money of the several tickets, instead of a sum.
in gross. for the use of the city, this question.could not have
arisen. No person would have denied the liability of the

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1827.
corporation. The sole inquiry then is, whether the agreement of the 14th of May, 1821,'has discharged this liability.Clark
If the exposition of the charter in the early part of this
V.
opinion be correct, this question is answered. If the cor- Corporation
of
the
porate body was not empowered to vest in an individual
and on W asbington.
himself,
for
lotteries
drawing
of
independent right
his own responsibility, uncontrolled by the city government,
then the agreement with Gillespie can operate only as a sale
of the profits for a given sum, leaving the responsibility of
the corporation as if that agreement had never been made.
The contract would be between the corporation and the
ticket purchaser; and, although the price of the ticket was
paid to Gillespie, yet the-corporation had consented that he
should receive it for the purpose of performing their engagements to such ticket holders as should draw prizes, and had
consented to receive from him 10,000 dollars, as full compensation for that portion of it which would remain after satisfying those engagements.
If the charter did grant the power to the corporation
which is now claimed, the whole transaction must be constdered, in order to determine its actual character. We must
inquire whether the corporation has so acted as to devest
itself entirely of all conrfexion with, control over, and responsibility for, this lottery, and substituted the purchaser in
their place.
In its origin, the lottery was a city lottery. It was to be
managed by persons appointed by the city, drawn under
their superintendence, and, so far as the public was informed, for the benefit, and on the responsibility of the city,
Tickets were prepared under the authority of the corpora-tion, bearing on their face the city improvements for which
the lottery was to be drawn, the names of the managers appointed by the city, and the words "national lottery," and
" by authority of Congress." Before these tickets were
disposed of in the usual way, the managers entered into an
agreement with David Gillespie, to sell him a lottety denominated the fifth class of the Grand National Lottery, to be
drawn according to the scheme annexed, at the costs of the
caid Gillespie, except the expense of drawing the same.
The stipulations of this contract show that it was not in-

f.A'-ES IN THE SUPREME COUWT
tended to dissolve the connexion between the city and the
lottery, and to give the absolute property in it, and control
overit, to Gillespie, nor to exhibit him to the world as its
owner, with whom alone the purchasers of tickets were
to contract, and to whom the fortunate adventurers were to
of
1Vachington. look for the payment of their prizes. He engages to draw
1827.
'
Clark
Co-.oation

the lottery in the city of Washington, in the presence of the
managers; to finish the drawing within two years from the
date of the contract, to pay all the prizes within sixty-days
from its completion; to provide two clerks to assist at the
drawing; and to execute,. within thirty days, and before
the drawing should commence, a bond to the.managers, with
such security as they should approve, in the penal sum of
35,000 dollars, conditioned for the faithful drawing of the
lottery, according to the scheme, for the punctual payment
of the prizes, and for conducting the lottery fairly and honestly, according to the scheme,-and according to the true
intent and meaning of the acts of the aldermen and board
of common council.
A bond was executed in pursuance of this agreement.
These provisions are in the spirit of a contract made, to
secure the city from the hazard of a continuing responsibility; a responsibility which they were induced to continue
by the consideration of the 10,000 dollars paid by Gillespxe.
Why else stipulate that the lottery should be drawn in the
city 9 Why that it should be completed within g limited
time, and drawn in the presence of the managers appointed
9
by the corporation 9 Why that the prizes should be paid
and why thke a bond to the managers, conditioned, among
other things, for their payment 9 Had the corp.oration felt
no farther interest in the lottery, the purchaser might have
been permitted to exercise his own discretion with the article he had purchased, and to appear to the world as its
owner. But the nature of the case justifies the opinion
that such a sale could not have been made. No purchaser
could have been found who would have given 10,006 dol.
lars for the privilege of drawing a lottery on .his-own account and responsibility, having no connexion kt-the city..
The probability is strong, that the aspect which.the lottery
still continued to bear was a necessary part of 'the contract,

OF THE UNITED STATE%,
without which it would never have been made, and that 1827.
these precautions were used to diminish the hazard of a reClark
sponsibility which was unavoidably continued. We find
the appearance of this responisibility carefully preserved Corporation
of
by the corporation itself. and by its managers. In the ordi- Washington.
tickets
the
that
enacted,
is
it
1821,
nance of the 2i.d of May,
shall be signed by the president of their board of managers,
and that their managers shall receive a daily allowance for
attending the drawing of the lottery. The tickets were
I
signed in conformity with this ordinance.
The manner in which the lottery was advertised, confirms
the opinion that the contract of sale was made with a view
to the continuing the responsibility of the city. Exception
is taken *tothe admission of these advertisements, and we
will not affirm that their appearance in the city papers, one
of which was published by a member of the corporate
body, is evidence that the publication was made by authority
of the managers; but the advertisements prove the fact that
the lottery was .ushered to the world in the form and character which those advertisements represent. It is proved
that they were published in two papers in the city,
in the National lIntelligencer from the 18th of May. 1821,
and in the Washington City Gazette from the 17th of
July, 1821, until the completion of the lottery. These advertisements exhibited the scheme which was agreed on between the managers and Gillespie, which was annexed to
their contract; gives notice of the time when the drawing
would take place, of the number of days to be employed
in the drawings, and that they would be completed as soon
as possible, under the superintendence of the managers.
To this advertisement the names of the managers are annexed. The lottery is drawn in pursuance of it, and the
managers superintend the drawing. In its progress, a postponement takes place. An advertisement purporting to
be signed by three. of the managers appears, giving notice
of this postponement, and of its cause. Another advertisement soon follows, purporting to be signed by. the president,
by order of the board, giving notice when the drawing
would recommence. It does recommence under the supermtendence of the managers.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
It is not, we think, within the cnmpass of humafi credu1827.
.v'
' lity, to believe that the malinagers did not see these advertisements, or did'not believe that -they would be received
Clark
V.

Corporation by the public as being accredited by their names. Not to
of
contradict them was-to sanction them. To appear in purWashxngton. suance of'them, and superintend the drawings of which
they had given notice,'was to adopt them. It is not to be
believed that this concurrence of circumstances, ell tending
to assure the public that these advertisemerts were published by authority of the managers, could have been produced
by accident. To sit daily superintending the drawing oT a
lottery, in pursuance of notice published every day under
their names, verifies that publication, and must be considered as a ratification of it.
The proceedings which-.took place between the rmanagers and Gillespie, after the contract, still farther cotroborates the opinion that this continuing responsibilitiof the
corporation which was held put to the public, was not a
fraudulent representation for the purpose of enabling Gillespie to sell the tickets, but a representation of the fact as
then understood.
It appears, from the deposition of Mr. Webb, that all the
tickets, amountibg to-50,000, were put into the possession
of Gillesp'ie; but these tiokets were not vendible until
signed by the president of the board of managers. Those
unsigned could no more be used by him than if they had
not been in his possession. As soon as the scheme was.
agreed on, three or four thousand tickets were signed, and
tfterwards tickets were occasionally signed, so as to make
the-additional number of '17,203. Why were these tickets
thus withheld from him, if he had become the absolute and
unconditional proprietor of them? The conduct of the
manageril, as disclosed in the subsequent part of Webb's deposition, will inform us. He sayo, that sonoe time. after the
drawing of the lottery commenced, the president of the
managers refused to sign tickets, unless an equivalent in
prize tickets, either paid and taken in by Gillespie, or.
drawn on -hand, or the notes of individuals which Gillespie
had taken, payable to himself, for tickets sold, were deposited with them and, accordingly, when the witness, as the

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1827.
clerk and agent of Gillespie, presented-tickets to be signed,
be was obliged, at the same time, to deposit such prize
Clark
tickets or promissory notes, and, on some occasions, when
V.
tickets were called for, and wanted, the managers have re- Corporation
of
fused to sign the same for want of such equivalent, that the
Washington.
amount of such prize tickets so deposited with the managers was about the sum of 141,779 dollars, that the managers on such occasions ohected to trusting Gillespie with
the disposal of.tickets mixclc beyond the penalty of his
bond, and the witness understood,- from the conversations
and transactions between the parties it the time, that this
precaution, arose from doubts which had been circulated
respecting Gillespie's solvency. The whole number of
tickets actuilly signed was 30,960. This conduct of the
managers is explained by the supposition that they considered the city as still respQnsible for prizes, but is irreconcilable with the idea of 'n entire transfer of responsibility
to Gillespie. Such entire transfer would have entitled him
to the free use of all the tickets. That the parties who
made the contract so understood it. would go far in its construction, were it even in the power of the corporation to
transfer its responsibility.
We, think then, that the contract of May, 1821, can be
considered only as a sale of the profits of the lottery, and
could not, under all the circumstances of the case, affiect the
responsibility of the corporation. The ticket was in fact
what it purports on its face t; be, a ticket in the National
Lottery, by, authority of Congress, sold under the direction
of the corporation, and signed by the person who was authorized by an'act of the corporate body to sign it. It asserts that it shall entitle the possessor to such prize as may
be drawn to its number; and this is, we think, m such a case,
the promise of the corporation, made by its authorized agent,
to pay such prize.
The judgment of the Circuit Court, then, on the verdict
found in the cause, and on the case agreed, to which that
verdict refers, ought to have been for the plaintiff. The
judgment is to be reversed, and the cause remanded to the
Circuit Court, with directions to enter judgment for the
plaintiff.

