408

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1827.

deducting the amount. of the premium due on the poliy,
viz. 376 dollars, and also the proportion of the salvage ben. Cterest longing to the said Columliian Insurance Company, viz.
Ins
omp.
V.
2,997 dollars and 82 cents, received by the said Catlett;
Ruggles. and that the judgment of the Circuit Court, to the amount
of the said sum of 6,626 dollars and 18 cents, and interest
thereon from the 14th of October, 1122, be and hereby is
affirmed, and as to the residue of the said judgment, be and
hereby is reversed: and the cause is to be remanded to the
said Circuit Court, with directions to enter judgment for the
said Catlett accordingly: the parties in the Court below to be
at liberty to open the auditor's report, so far as respects the
item for 480 dollars, the proceeds of the doubloons, and the
item for, 719 dollars and 37 cents paid over to captain
F-Knight; and the judgment to be varied by the Circuit
Court as these items may be found for either party; execution, however, to be granted immediately for the balance of
the,judgment, deducting the said sum of 719 dollars and 37
cents.

[INSURANCE.]
The GZNERAL INTERLEST INSURANCE COPANY, Plaintiffs m
Error;agaswtRUGGLiEs Defendant in -Error.
Where an insurance was effected after a loss had happened, though

unknown to the assured, the master having omitted to communisato information to the owner, and having expressed his intention
not to write to the owner, and taken measures to prevent the fact
of the loss being known, for the avowed purpose of enabling the
owner to efTect insurance, in consequence of which informadion of
the loss had not reached the parties at the time the jolicy was underwritten: Beld, that the owner having acted with good faith,
.v" nQt precluded from a recovery upon the policy on account of
'the fraudulent misconduct of the master.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

409

THIS cause was argued by Mr. D. B.'Ogden and 11r.
1827.
r
Wheaton, for the plaintiffl in error,# and by Mr. Webster oGen.lntere-st
*andMr. Bliss, for the defendant in error.
Ins. Comp.
V.

Mr. Justice THompsoN delivered the opinion of the Ruggles.
Feb. £7th.
Court.
_1
This is an action on a policy of insurance, bearing date
lt.
the 9th of February, 1824, for 3,000 dollars, on the sloop a
Hamet, lost or not lost, at and from Newport, Rhode
Island, to, at, and from, all ports and places to wich she
may proceed in the United States, during the term of six
months, beginning.on the 12th of January, 1824. And also.
600 dollars property on board said sloop, at and from Newport to Charleston, or Savannah, or both. The sloop.
whilst proceeding on her voyage, and within the term of six
months, to wit, on the 19th of January, was wrecked on
Cape Hatteras, and both vessel and cargo wholly lost. An
abandonment wasn due twne, madpeiand a total loss claimed
The case comes before mis Court upon a bill of exceptions taken to the directions given by the Circuit Court for
the District of Massachusetts, to the jury, upon the law of
the case.
The loss, it will be seen, happened on the 19th of Janu.
ary, and the policy was not effected until the 9th of February. And the question upon the trial turned upon the legal
effect and operation of the misconduct of the master after
the loss occurred. It was proved that the master, immediately after the loss, for the purpose, and with the design.
that the owner, not hearing of the loss of the vessel, might
effect insurance thereon, did express his intention not to
write to the owner, and took measures to prevent the fact
of the loss being known; and that, by the conduct of the
master in this particular, and in consequence of the measures adopted by him to suppress intelligence of the loss,.
knowledge thereof had not reached the parties at the time,
the policy was underwritten.
a Park. Ins. 209. 320. 1 Term Rep. 12. 1 Maule A Zdew. sr'.
9 J'OnS. Rep. 32. Phifl. Ins. 82. 97.
Vor,. XI1.
o

410

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Upon these facts the Court instructed the jury, that at1827.
though it was the duty of the master to give information of
v
Gen. Interest the loss to his owner as soon as he reasonably could, yet
Ins. Comp.
that, in the present case, when there had been an abandonv.
Ruggles. ment in due time for a loss really total, if the owner, at the
time of, procuring the insurance, had no knowledge of the
loss, but acted with entire good faith, he was not precluded
from a recovery. Nor was the policy void by the omission
of the master to communicate the information; or by his
acts, in suppressing. intelligence of the loss, although such
omission and acts were wilful, and resulted from the fraudulent design to enable the owner to make insurance after the
loss; the owner himself not being conusant of such acts
anid design at the time of procuring the insurance.
And, under this direction, a verdict was found for the
plaintiff for a total loss.
The statement of the case admits fraudulent misconduct
on the part of the master, by reasun whereof the policy was
effected before any knowledge Df the loss reached the assured, or the underwriters ; but that the assured was entirely
ignorant of this misconduct in the master; and that, on his
part, there was the most perfect good faith in procuring the
policy. Here, then, is a loss thrown upon one of two innocent paries, and the question is, by which is it to be borne.
The determination of this question nmust depend, in a great
measure, if not entirely, upon the relation in which the master stood to the respective paities when this misc onduct occurred. If the loss of the vessel had been occasioned by
any misconduct of the master short of barratry, whilst in
the prosecution of the voyage, and before the loss happened, or if, at the time this misconduct is alleged against him,
he was the exclusive agent of the owner for any purposes
connected with procuring the insurance, the owner must
bear the loss. But if, after the loss, the agency of the master ceased, and was at an end, or if he, in judgment of law,
became the agent of the underwriters, hIs misconduct cannot be chargeable to the assured.
The researches of counsel have not furnished the Court
with..any adjudged cases either in ,the English or American
Courts. which seem to have decided this question. Some

OF THE UNITED STATES.

411

have been referred to, which have been urged as having a 1827.
strong bearing upon the point, but which, on examination,
will be found distinguishable in some material facts and cir- Gen. Interest
cumstances.
The precise point, therefore, now before the Court, may Ruggles.
be considered new, but we apprehend is to be governed by
the application of principles understood to be well settled
in the law of insurance.
It is important to understand with precision and accuracy, the relation in which the master stood to the owner of
the vessel, at the time when he was guilty of the fraud and
misconduct imputed to him. It was afterthe loss occurred,
and at a time when there had been a total destruction of the
subject insured, over which the master's agency had extended.
The case has been argued on the part of the underwriters,
as if the agency growing out of the relation of master and
owner of the vessel, existed at this time ; and that the assured was responsible for all consequences arising from the
misconduct of the master; and that the law would presume,
that whatever was knovwn to the master, must be considered
as impliedly known to the owner. These propositions may
be true, when applied to a state of facts properly admitting
of such application, but cannot 'hetrue to the extent, to
-which they have been urged in the present case. If the
owner is presumed to know whatever is known to the master, there could be no valid policy effected upon a vessel;
after she was, in point of fact, lost. Such loss must be
known to the master; and if it follows, as a legal conclusion, that'it is known to the owner, the policy would be
void. Nor upon this doctrine, could there ever be any insurance against barratry or any other misconduct of the
master,. for his own acts must necessarily be known_to himself. And, indeed, the principle pressed thtir a -uld render it impracticable ever- to have any guaranty whatever
against the fraud or misconduct of an agent, any more than
against that of tfie principal himself. The knowledge of
the agent, therefore, with respeet to the fact of losjcanuot
affect the insurance; nor could the h,,wtedge of the owner
himself, with rdspect to suchlJoss, ffiect the insurance In 0,l

ejASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1827.

case6.

Suppose the owner should himself be the master,

x' Interest
. or be on board, having
left orders with an agent to procure
fGen.
tiennlsshehi
Ins.
Cor.

insurance in a given time, unless he should hear from him;
v.
or have information of the arrival of the vessel at her port
Ruggies. of destination, and the vessel should be lost the day before
the policy was underwritten, and at a distance that rendered
it impossible that information thereof could reach the agent,
would such a policy be void 9 No one could certainly mainfain such a proposition.. And it is by no means an unfrequent practice to obtain insurance in this way. It is not,
therefore, true as a universal rule, that either the fact of loss,
or the'knowledge of such fact by the agent or the principal,
at the time the policy is procured, will vacate it. But
such knowledge must be brqught home to some of the parties or agents connected with the business of procuring the
insurance; and then the rule properly applies, which puts
the principal in place of the agent, and makes im responsible for his acts. There is, then, the relation of principal
and agent in the subject matter of the contract. But the
master, in his character as master, has no authority to procure insurance, nor is he in any sense an agent for such purpose, or m any way connected with it. There may, undoubtedly, be superadded to his powers and duties as master, an
agency in other matters,. tn effect insurance or any other
lawful business, but in his appropriate character of master,
the law considers him an agent only for the navigation of
the vessel, and in such matters as are connected with, and
incident to, such employment. And when the books speak
of the master's being agent of the owner, they are to be understood in this sense.. He is not to be considered as the
general agent of the owner for all purposes whatsoever,
that may have connexion with the voyage. He is a special
agent for navigating the vessel, and can neither bind nor prejudice his principal, by any act not coming properly within
the scope and object of such employment. Unless'thepowers of agents are thus limited, no man could be safe in the
transaction of any business through the agency of another.
The master, in his character as such, had certainly no authority to procure insurance. He could not bind the owner
by sich a contract 5 aid if he could uot why should his

oF T1'HE UNITED $'rA'i'i

413

acts, totally unconnected with the business of procuring the 1827.
insurance, render void a contract entered into in good faith ,
Interest
in all parties having any concern in the transaction 7 It is a Gen.
Ins. Com.
V.
gerneral rule applicable to agencies of every description,
that the agent cannot bind his principal, except in matters Rugglcs.
coming within the scope of his authority ; and this rule
applies particularly to a waster and owner of a vessel, and
is construed with considerable strictness. Thus, in the case
of Boucherv. Lawson, (Cas. Temp. Hardwirke, p. 85. and .Abbolt. 119.) the action was againstthe owner ofa ship, forgood'
lost by the carelessness of the master; and judgment was
given for the defenfdant, because it did not appear that the
ship wa; usually employed in carrying goods for hire. For
Lord Hardwicke said, no man could say that the master, by
.aking in goodL of his own head, could make the ownere
liable.
It is a little difficult to perceive, how in any legal sense
the relation of principal and agent could exist, at the time
when the misconduct of the master is alleged to have taken
place. So far as he was agent for navigating the vessel, it
had terminated by the absolute destruction of the subjecl
The agency would seem to have ceased from necessity.
There was nothing upon which it could act. Had there not
been a total loss of the vessel, there would have remained a
duty and legal obligation, on the part of the master, to use
his best exertions to save what he could from the wreck.
But when the subject matter of the agency beconomes extinct.
-t is not easy to understand how, in any just sense, the agen.,
". can be said to survive. There might be a moral duty
,'esting on the master to communicate information of the lose
to his owner. But how could there have been any legal ob.
ligation binding upon him to do it. The information could
neither benefit nor prejudice the owner. It is a general rule
of law, that if an injury arises to a principal, in consequence
of the misconduct of his agent, an action may be sustained
against him for the damage. Could an action in this case be
sustained by the owner against the master for not givinghim
information of the loss? and if not, it would seem to follow aE
a necessary consequence., that the owner could not be pr¢"
.udiced by his actc-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
But suppose the agency of the master not to have termtnated, but that, in judgment of law, he was the agent of some
Gen. tnterest one. The question recurs, whose agent was he? The anIns. Comp.
swer cannot admit of a doubt. If agent at all, he was, by
v.
Ruggles. operation of law, the agent of the underwriters.
The policy, taking the risk on the vessel and cargo, lost or
not lost, although effected after the lass happened, related
back, and. by the abandonment, the underwriters were
substituted in the place of the assured, and the master, although the agent of the owner until the loss occurred, became, upon the abandonment, the agent of the underwriters.
The law.upon this subject'is well settled, where there is only
a technical total loss, and any part of the subject insured
.remains. The interest in the salvage, whatever it may be,
becomes transferred to the underwriters, and the agency is,
of course, transferred with the subject, and the agent, '.hereafter, becomes responsible to the underwriters for the faithful discharge 6f his trust. No action could be sustained against
him by the assured for the proceeds, or any misconduct in
the management thereof This is not only the settled rile
of law, but a contrary doctrine would involve the greatest
absurdity. It would be placing the absolute interest in the
property in one party, and making the agent accountable for
its managem'ent to another. No action could be susLained
by the assured, for the plain reason, that he would have no
interest in the subject of the agency.
And if such wouldbe the effect of an abandonment in case
of a technical total -loss, there can be no good reason assigned why the rule should not be applied to a loss really total'
so far as td transfer whateyer agency could remain. So that,
whether the agency terminated by the total destruction of
the subject, or was transferred by the abandonment to the
underwriters, the misconduct of the master could not prejudice the rights of the owner. The connexion of principal
and agent was dissolved, and they stood towards each other
as mere strangers, so far as any legal responsibility could be
involved in the conduct of the master. Such we apprehend
'to be the result of the application of well settled principles
of law to the facts and circumstances presented by the bill
1827.

415

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1827.
of exceptions, in the absence of any authority to govern the
case.
Interest
We will proceed. then, briefly to notice the cases thathave Gen
Ins. Comp.
been supposed to have a bearing upon this question favourRuggles.
able to the underwriters..
In Fizherl,ert v. .Mather, (1 Term Rep. 12.) the fraud or
concealment relied upon to avoid the policy was, that one
Thomias, who on the 16th of September, and before the loss
happened, had written a letter to the agent of the assured,
and put it in the post office, but the mail did not leave the
place until the afternoon of the next day. before which time,
and-on the moring ofthe 17th, he knew of the loss. but did
not withdraw his letter from the post office, or write another
giving information of the loss. Here was, then, a palpable
case of gross negligence, if Thomas was to be considered the
agent of the assured , and, that he was, appears not only to
have been assumed b) the whole Court, but the conclusion
is fully warranted by the facts in the case. The assured, n
his letter to Fisher, who procured the insurance, directed
him to procure it on receiving the bills of lading; which
bills, it appears from the case, were to be sent to him by'
Thomas. 'I he letter and information from Thomas was,
therefore, made the foundation of the insuiance, and the assured adopted Thomas as his agent, by directing Fuller to
procure insurauce on receiving the bills of lading from him.
It was, therefore, a case of concealment, or misrepresentation, by one who stood in the relation of agent of the assured,
in the subject matter of the contract, and whose information
.lay at the foundation of it.
The case tf Stewart v. Dunlop, (4 Brown. Parl.Gas. and
Park, 3O.) decided in the House of Lords, is very imperfectly reported, the reasons of the judgment, and the
ground on which the decision rested, not appearing in any
report of the case. Enough, however, is shown, from the
statement of facts, to put the decision upon the plain ground,
that the policy was procured by an agent of the assured expressly instructed by him to obtain the insurance, he, the
agent, having grounds to suspect a loss of the ship, which
grounds were not communicated to the underwriter, and, besides this, there was enough to afford strong suspicion, that
,.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.
the assured himself knew of the- loss. The men who ar
rived at Greenock, knowing of the loss, communicated the
,v-'
Gen Interest information to the friend and intimate acquaintance of the
Ins. Comp.
assured, who desired it might be concealed. The same day
V.
Ruggles. this friend held~a conversation with the clerk of the assured,
and asked him if he knew whether there was any insurance
upon the vessel, and if there was any account of her; and,
after this, the assured directed this clerk to write to get insurance. The case was open to strong suspicion, that the
friend of the assured had communicated to him the information he had received of the loss, which would have been a
plain ground for declaring the policy void. But if such a
conclusion is not fairly warranted, there was enough communicated to the clerk to lead him to suspect a loss had
happened; and he being the agent employed to procure the
insurance, his principal was properly chargeable with all
the information he bad in relation to the loss.
The case of .qndrews 8 Boerum v. The .MarineInsurance
Company, (9 Johns. Rep. 32.) does not seem to have much
bearing upon this point. The decision turned upon a questk.n of fact, whether there was such gross negligence, or
constructive fraud, as to vacate the policy. There was no
question of agency involved in the decision. The master
of the vessel was part owner, and one of the insured, and
there was no point raised as to his legal obligation to use ordinary diligence in giving information of the loss to his co-owners , but the Court considered, that, under the circumstances
of the case, he was not chargeable with such negligence as
to vacate the poilcy. But what would have been the result
if the doctrine now contended for had been applied to that
case 9 [f what is known to the agent is considered as impliedly known to the principal, with much more propriety
should the knowledge of one part owner be imputable to
all. And the policy must have been held void, because procured with implied knowledge of the loss.
The case of Gladstone v. King, (I JIaule / elw. 35.) did
not turn upon the question now before the Court. The claim
was for an average loss upon the ship, in consequence of an
injury received before the policy was effected. The defence
-t up war a concealment of this fact, or negligence in th"

o.

'i

".NLI) SIATh

waster in not mentioning it in a letter written to hiown- 12'7.
ers, after the injury had been received, and betbre the policy \.-.
was underwritten. The policy, however. took up the yes- Gn.Interest
Ins. Coip,
v.
sel from the commencement of the voyage, and would, of
Ruggler.
course, cover the njury. The Court considered the concealment material, and that the underwriter ought not to be
charged with the loss. rhey did not. however, decide the
policy to be void, which would seem to have been the necessary consequence of a material concealment, according
to the principles of insuranue law. But they exonerated
the underwriter by the application oi what was avowed to
be a new principle, that this antecedent damage should
be considered an implied exception out of the policy, and
this principle, say the Court, although new, is adopted abeing consistent witlijusticp and convenience.
It is unnecessary to say, whether, to such a case arising
here, we should think proper to adopt and apply this new
principle. It is enough for the present to say, the principle
does not apply to the case now before us. It may. however,be
observed, that the decision in that case, so far, at least, as it
went to exonerate 'he insurer from the payment of the average loss, may be supported upon well settled rules. Information of the injury was withheld by the captain whilst he
was acting in his appropriate character of master, and, as
such, was the exclusive agent of the owner, and for whose
negligence he alone was responsible. And from what fell
frcm Lord Ellenborough.upon the trial, it may be presumed
this letter was shown to the underwriter, and, if so, it
amounted to a representation that the vessel had sustained
no injury at the date of the letter. But unless the case is
imperfectly reported, it would be difficult to sustain it upon
principles heretofore understood to govern analogous cases.
These are all the cases cited on the argument on the part
of the underwriters, which are supposed to have a bearing
upon the present question. We think) however, they are
distinguishable in many material circumstances, and particularly in this, that the fraud or concealment, which was hild
to vitiate the policies, was traced to some agent, having connexion in some way with procuring the insurance and the.
53
VOL. XII,

CASES IN THE SUPREME CO-URT
1827.
\

agency was, therefore, concerning the subject matter of thcontract

Gen. InTerest It is, no doubt, true. with respect to policies of insurance.
Ins. Comp.
as well a, to all other contracts, that the principal is rev.
Ruggle. sponsible for the acts of his agent, and that any misrepresentation, or material concealment by the agent, is equally
fatal to the contract, as if it had been the act of the principal
himself. But such responsibility must, of necessity, be limited to cases where the agent acts within the scope of his
authority In the present case, the master wns clothed with
no authority or agency, in any manner connected with procuring insurance. The misconduct charged against him oc
curred, not whilst he was acting as master, but at a timc
when the relation of master and owner may well be consider,
ed as dissolved from necessity, by reason of a total destruction of the whole subject matter of the agency; and if not,
the master, by the legal operation of the abandonment, be.
came the agent of the underwriters, and was their agent at.
the time of his alleged misconduct.
It is said, that, if this is a new question, the Court should
adopt such rule as is best calculated to preserve good faitb
in effecting policies of insurance. But it is by no means
clear, that this .end would be best promoted by adopting the
rule contended for on the part of the underwriters. Cases
may very easil& be supposed, where negligence .or miscon.
duct in agents of underwriters, as to matters not immediately
connected with effecting a policy, will still have a remote
influence, which may have a tendency to prejudice the interest of the assured. Such cases, however, as well as those
of the description now under consideration, will most likely
be of rare occurrence, and nice and minute distinctions prac.
tically operate unfavourably on the business of insurance.
If underwriters feel themselves exposed to fraudulent
practices in such cases, the protection is in their own hands,
by not assuming any losses that may have happened prior to
the date of the 'policy., It is considered a hazardous undertaking to insure, lost or not lost, atid a proportionate premium is demanded, according to the circumstances stated,
to show the probability or improbability of the safety of the
subject insured.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
Although no adjudged cases directly applicable to the one
1827.
fta
before us have been found, we do not consider this decisioh .--as establishing any new principle in the law of insurance, but Brown
V.
as grounded on the application of principles already set- State of
Maryland.
fled. to a new combination of circumstances.
Judgment affirmed.

[CONSTITUTXONAL LAw.J
BRowN and Others, Plaintiffs in Error, against-The
oF MARYLAND, Defendant in Error.

STATE

An act of a State legislature, requiring all importers of foreig!r

goods by the bale or package, &c. and other persons selling the
same by wholesale, bale, or package, &c. to take out a license, for
which they shall pay 50 dollars, and in case of neglect or refusal'
to take out such license, subjecting them to certain forfeitures and
penalties, is repugnant to that provision of the constitution of the
United States, which declares, that " no State shall, without the

consent of (ongress, lay any impost, or duty on imports or oxports, except what may be .absolutely necessary for executing its
inspection laws;" and to that which declares that Congress shall
have power 1,to regulate commerce with foreign nations, among

the several States, and with the Indian tribes."
ERROR to the Court of Appeals of Maryland.
This was an indictment in the City Court of Baltimore,
against the plaintiffs in error, upon the second section of an
act of the legislature of the State of Maryland, passed in
1821, entitled, 'I An act supplementary to the act layingdu-ties on licenses to retailers of dry goods, and for other purposes." The second section of the act provides, " That
all importers of foreign articles, or commodities, of dry
goods, wares, or merchandises, by bail or package, or of
wine, rum, brandy, whiskey, and other distilled spirituouP
liquors, &c. and other persons selling the same by whnle-

