O')F THE UNITED STATES.

Wil5
1827.

[C, ANCEPY.]
SCOT

;cott
V.
Shreeve

and Others, Appellants, against SHREVE and
Others. Respondents.

Relief in equity ag.ainst a judgment at law, upon certain bonds given
for the indemnity of the obligee, as endoiser of notes drawn by
the obligor, the consideration having failed.
The assignee of such bonds takes tieni subject to all equities existing betweeni the original parties.

THIS cause was argued by Mr. Swann, for the appellants, Jan. ist,.
and by Mr. Taylor, for the respondents.
Mr. Justice THOMPSON delivered the opinion of the Jan. OtIh
Court.
This case comes up by appeal from the Circuit Court of
the District of Columbia for the county of Alexandria. The
object of the bill filed ii the Court below, was to obtain relief against a judgment at law recovered against Shreeve.
the appellee, upon certain bonds given by hii to Elisha
Janney, and which bonds had been assigned to the appellant.
Scott, as his trustee, for the benefit of his creditors.
In the progress of the cause, it was deemed necessary bk
the Court, that the Bank of Potomack should be made o

party defendant. A supplemental bill for that purpose was
accordingly filed, and the bank made a party.
The first inquiry that seems naturally to arise is, how the
case stood as between Shreeve and Jaimey, the original parties to the bonds. The material facts upon which the complainant in the Court below relied for relief, are not demcd
by the answer of Scott. From the bill and answver, and
exhibits in the caitse, accompanied by a written agreement
between the solicitors of the parties, before the cause u as
set down for argument, the leading facts in the case appear
to be, that some time in the year 1808, Shreeve failed ii
biisiMes, being indebted to the Bank of Potomack in thc.
-um of 6.300 dollars, upon a note. diw,'omnted a, fh Ianl.
-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.
Scott
V.
Shreeve.

and upon which Janney was the endorser; for whose secu-

~ rity Shreeve transferred to him, and John Roberts, who was

also his endorser upon other notes, certain property at a va-

luation, but which, upon settlement of accounts between
them, fell short Qf Janney's responsibility to the bank upon
his endorsement, 1.980 dollars 88 cents, for which, by
agreement between the parties, Shreeve gave to Janney five
bonds, payable i five annual instalments, and Janney was
to pay the note to the bank, upon which he was the endorset. The note, however, was continued running in the
bank in its original form, Janney appearing responsible as
endorser only. This not6 was renewed from 'time to time
until the 19th of May, 1809, when, by the payments which
had been made by Janney out Qf the ptoperty assigned by
Shreeve, it was reduced to the sum of 3,306 dollars ; .and
Jainey .himself havlng failed about this time,mo further
payments were made upon this oote until the month of
June, 1818. when Shreeve, after a long absence, returned
to Alexandria, and was called upon by the bank for payment of his note, upon which he paid the sum of 3,345
dollars 29 cents, being the amount of principal and interesf
due upon the five bonds which he had given to Janney.
Upon thi brief statement of the facts as between Shreeve
and Janney, it will be 'seen, that Shreeve was exposed to a
double responsibility for the same debt. He was liable on
his note held by the bank, (unless the bank may'be considered as having assented to the, arrangement, and accepted
Janney as solely responsible on the note, which will be
hereafter considered,).and he was also liable to Janney on
the bonds which he had given him. For the purpose -of indemnifying Shreeve against his responsibility to the bank,
Janney gave him the instrument bearing date the Ist of
March, .18b9, acknowledging that Shreeve had satisfied him
by his bonds of the 28th of February, 1809, for all demands
against him as security at bank, and for all other accounts ;
and that the note above referred to, although originally discounted' for the use of Shreeve, was continued in his damc,
but for the colivenience of him, Janney, and vngaging to
save Shreeve harmless from the said note. and in due time
&Ltake it tp.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

607

1827.
An objection is here made to sustaining this bill in equity,
because there was a complete and adequate remedy at law.
Scott
S.
given
But this objectmon cannot be sustaied. The bonds
by Shreeve to Janney were -imply for the pa) ment of mo- Shreeve.
ney. and although the consideration for which they were The plaintiff
enmitledi
given had failed by-Janney's neglect to pay up the note in
to ielief
..below
t,, not
tq
this
engagement.
his
to
according
the Bank of Potomack
a coincould not have been set up at law as a defence in the suit having
ph-te and adcupon the bonds; nor could he. in that suit, have set off the qUatne remedy
law.
amount paid to the baik upon his note. The engagement
of Janney, on 9ssuming the payment of the note to the bank,
was a contract of nndemnmty only, and rested in damages,
and could never form the subecl of a set-off at law, and
although an action at law mightbe maintained against Janney
upon this indemnity, it would be going too far, even if Janney was solvent, to say, that a Court of equity could not interpose and stay a recovery upon the bds. but that the
party must be tiried round to his remedy at law upon his
indemnity. But, in the present case. it would be gross injustice. and a certain denial of all remedi to refuse relief
on this ground. Janne) having become insolvent There
was, then, no defence at law which Shreeve could have set
up against these bolds, nor had he an) other retied) at law
to which he was bound to resort.
Was there, then, an) defence which h ..uld have set up
agamnst a suit upon his note if he had perimimed the bank to
prosecute him 9 N ,meis perceived by the Court. fie stood
upon the note as maker, and was liable to the batik as such ;
and although, by the agreement between him and Janney,
the note was continued in that form for the convenience of
Janney, yet the bank was no party to that arrangement,
and could not be bound by it. Even admitting the knowledge
of that agreement by the bank, itcertainly could not have
been set up as a defence to the note, unless it could be
shown, that there was an express or implied agreement to
accept Janney as the debtor, and to discharge Shreeve.
It has been urged, however, on the part of the appellants,
that the statute of limitations had run against the note, and
flhat Shreeve might and ought to have availed himself of if

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
If the statute of limitations had run against this note, and
might have been pleaded, we should be very unwilling to say
that Shreeve was bound to plead it. It is a defence which

1827.
,
Scott
V.

a party may often avail himself of with greatjustice and propriety. But whether he will or not, must -be left to his own
plaintiff
bound to election. It is, however, unnecessary to inquire .into the

Shreeve.

The
not
rely upon the
statute oflim,- duty

aoped

or obligation of Shreeve to have pleaded the statute,

under.the circumstances of the case, because we do not
think- it, could have been set tip as a defence to the action.
The letter-of license given by the bank to Shreeve bears
date on the 12th January, - 1809, and was for the term of
seven years, which, of course, expired in January, 1816. It
certainly cannot be pretended that the statute ran during the
continuance of this letter of liceuse. Payment of the note
was demanded by the bank, and made by Shreeve, in June,
1818, about-twa years and five mhnths after the expiration
of the letter of license, a period much within the time necessary to bar the action.
'he assignee .The next inquiry is, whether Scott, the assignee of Janofthe- od
fd toab e ney, has acquired any greater right or interest in.these bonds
them,
subject
So far as relates to the question,
equi- than.Janney himself had.
to
all the
ied ex1ting whether the consideration had failed, -the assignee stands
between the precisely in the situation of the original, party. He took the
tations.

original

t ,

-

bonds subject to all existing equities. 'This is the settled
rule iu chancery, and that which is recognised by the laws of
Virginia which are in force in Alexandria. Nor has any thing
occurred, since the assignrhent, to give to Scott or the creditors of Janney any additional rights. These bonds were assigned by Janney as his own property, and for the benefit of
his own creditors, which was a violation of the trust and confidence reposed in him by. Shreeve. They were given expressly, accordingto the agreement of the parties,.to provide
for the payment of the note to the bank of Potomack; and it
is admitted that no part of this note has been paid.out of the
funds of Janney. The note had been reduced from %6,300
to $3,306, at the time Janney failed in the spring of 1809,
but these payments were made out of Shreeve's funds, assigned by Janney to Roberts by the deed of the 11th of August. 1802. And it is also admitted that Scott. the assi]gnec

OF THE UNITED STATES.

609

1827.
has made no payments upon this note since the assignment .o
him. The creditors of Janney have, therefore, been deScott
prived pf none of his funds, nor can they have• any right to
V.
claim the benefit of those bonds, which must be deemed to Sbreeve.
have been held by Janney in trust for the bank, and not as Reining
inquiry, who
his own property.
The o y remaining inquiry is, whether the bank, by any had accepted
as
express or implied agreement, accepted Janney as th irJariney
their sole debt.
or, and dis.
debtor, and discharged Shreeve from his responcibility.
The answer of the appellant, Scott, alleges, that Janney charged the
nt
,considered himself as ha ing assumed the payment of the
note in question, and that he was considered debtor to the
bank for the same, and was solely relied upon by the bank
for the payment of the note. That he believed the bank
had full knowledge-of the deed of the 11th of August, 1808,
by which provision was made for the payment of the -note,
and were satisfied With it. And he further alleges, that the
bank was so well satisfied with thjs provision, that it corisi.
dered neither-Janney nor Shreeve liable for it.
If these allegations were supported by,proof, they woqld
go far, if not conclusively, to show that the bank had adopted Janney as solely responsible for the note, and had dis.
charged Shreeve. If so, the payment by Shreeve woul4 be
considered voluntary, and without any legal obligation, and
would form no objection to the recovery on the bonds.
The baik, however, denies it was a party o the arrange.
ment made by the deed of the IIth of August, 1808, pr
that it made any stipulation or agreement with Shreeve PI'
Janney, in any manner connected with that deed, unless
the order of the 12th of January, 1809, (the letterof license,4
be considered as connected with it. The answer furtheI
denies, that the bank ever did release, or agree to release,
Shreeve, or that it ever did look solely to..Janney, or the
trust estate created by the deed of the 11 th of August, 1808.
It admits, that when this deed was executed, Janney and
Roberts were both directors of the bank, but avers, that no
proposition in relation to it ever came before the board pre.
i?,ou$. to the 12th of January, 1809,when the letter of license
was granted to Shreeve, with the concurrence of Janney
and Roberts, sitting and acting as directors of the bank.
77
Voi1 XII.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUUT
1827.
v
Scott
V.

Shreeve.

The answer of Scott is not evidence against the bank-,
accepthaving
and his allegations with respectlotto the
nentirely
note. are
this batik's
ed Janey as the sole debtor
supported by proofs, and must he laid out of view, as they
are positively denied by the answerof tie b1i.k. and which
answer is strongly supported by the orter fbr the tettot ot
license, which was granted subsequent to the arrangeeuen
between Shreeve and Janney. For, if the bank had considered Shreeve exonerated from the payment ot the note.
there could have been no necessity for. or propriety in, giv.
ing him a letter of license. Indeed, it would have bee,
absurd to give a letter of license to a man who was jnt
debtor to the bank.

The order tot th ;i,.urpuse l CLttioUS-

ly drawn, so as to retain the responsiblitt) ot both maker and
endorser. The indulge-ce is granted expressy upron the
condition that it is saictioned by Janney, and without lessening the right of the bank against him.
Nor is the bank chargeable with negligence tlat can in any
manner prejudice its rights, or of which the appellant has
any right to complain. The indulgence was granted with
the concurrence of Janney, and under an impression, no
doubt, by all parties, that the trust fund created by the deed
of the 11th of August, 180" would be sufficient to satisfy
this note. And it was upon this supposition. no doubt, that
the letter of license -for seven years was granted to Shreeve.
No steps would be taken g:.ai.-t Lim until the expiration of
that time, and demand of paymfilt was made as soon thereafter as he returned to Ale .andrina.
The utmost, then, that can be alleged against the bank
is, that it had full knowledge of the provision made by
the deed of the IIth of August, 1808. for the payment
of this note. And, admitting that provision to have been
'amply sufficient, it would not bind the batik without its assent to resort to that fund alone, and discharge the parties
to the note. The bank could have no objection to the provision made by that deed for the payment of the note, as it
would add to its security if the maker and endorser were
also held responsible. And the proceedings in relation to
the letter of license are conclusive to show, that it was the
xuiderstanding of all parties, that the bank had not. at that

OF THE UNITED STATL-.
time, relinquished its claims upon Janney and Shreeve
for the payment of the note.
We are, accordingly, of opinion, that the decree of the
Court below, granting a perpetual injunction against the appellant, and a dismission of the bill as to the Nnk. be affirmed. with costs.

-ADaTiALT

3uaisYeInioi'..

-Anms-Y aganst ALLEOII'E.
Qutare, Whether a ;uit zn personarn in the Admiralty may be mruntamed ,gaist the owrer of t ship by material men furnishing
suppl,,s for tue shi, n h,.r home port, where the local law gives
ship winh can bp enrorced bya proceedno speiiv v.r,.oni lithe
ing in rem ?
However this may be in general, such suit cannot be maintained

where the owner has given a negotiable promissory note for the
debt, which is not tendered to be given up, or actually surrendered,
at the hearing.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of Maryland.
This was a libel filed in the District Court by the appellant, Ramsey, against the respondent, Allegre, alleging that
the appellart., at the special instance and request of the respondent, owner, ship's husband, or consignee of the sciooner Dorothea, had perfornled various work and labour, and
found and provided various materials for the use of the said
schooner, to equip and prepare her for a voyage on the high
seas, amounting to the zum of 2,428 dollars. 84 cents, that
the appellant had often applied to the respondent for payment, and been refused, and praying procees accordingto the
course of the Admiralty, &c. A plea was filed by the respondent, alleging, among other thiigs, that iehad given the
libellant his negotiable promissory note for the debt. It
appeared, at the hearingo, that the appellant'had furnished
the materials in question at the respondent's request. ai.rl

1827.
V.
RamsaV
Allegre

