OF THE UNITED STATES.

159
1827,

[DzvisE.]

Jackson
V.

Chew.

JACKSON, ex dem. ST.

JoN, against4JHsw

U. being seised of lands in the State of New-York, devised the same,
by his last will and testament, to his son Joseph, in fee, and other
lands to his son Medcef, in fee, and added "It is my will, and I do
order and appoint, that ifeither of my said sonsslodd depart tais
life atlsust lawful isse, his sh eor part shall go to the surmvor;
and in case of both their deaths, without lawful issue, then I give
allthe property to my brother John E., and my sister Hannah J.,
and their feirs." Joseph. one of the sons, died without lawful is.
sue, in 1812, .leaving his brother Medcefsurvivmg, who afterwards
died without issue: Hdd, that Joseph took an estate in fee, defeasible in the event of his dying without issue in the lifetime of his
brother; that the limitation over was good as an executory devise;
and on the death of Joseph, vested in his surviving brother Medcef.
'This Court adopts the local law of real property, as atcertamed by
the decisions of the State Courts, whether those decisions are
grounded on the construction of the statutes of the State, or form
apart of the unwritten law of the State.
The Court, therefore, considered it unnecessary to examine the question arising upon the above devise, as a question of general law;
or to reviewe and attempt to reconcile the cases in the English
Courts upon similar clauses in wills, the construction of this clause
having been long settled by a uniform series of adjudications in
New-York, and having become a fixed rule of property in that
State.

ERROR to the Circuit.Court for the Southern District
of New-York.
The question presented by the special verdict in this case,
arose upon the will of Medcef Edep, theelder, bearing date
the 29th day of August, 1798, by which will the testator
devised to his son Joseph, certain portions of his real and
personal, property, among which were the premises in question in this cause, "to have and to hold the same to him, his
heirs, executors, and administrators, for ever." In like manner be devised to his son Medeef, his heirs and assigns, certain other portions of his property; and, after making some
other provisions, added the following clause' -1 Icm. It is
20
Vot,. XIT.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1327.
Jackson
V.
Chew,.

m' will, and I do order and appoint, that if either of my
said sons should depart this life without lawful issue, his
share or part shall go to the survivor. And in-casd of both
their deaths, without lawful issue, then I give all the property aforesaid to my brother, John Eden, of Loftus, in
Cleveland, in Yorkshire, and my sister,-Hannah Johnson, of
Whitby, in Yorkshire, and their heirs." And the question
was, what estate Joseph Eden (under whom the lessor of
the plaintiff claimed) took in the premises in question. The
testator died soon after making his will, leaving his two sons,
Joseph and Medcef, living. Joseph died in August, 181,
without issue, leaving his brother Medcef alive. The lessor of the plaintiff claimed title derived from Joseph Eden,
under the sale of the premises in question, by virtue of a
judgment and-execution against him, and sundry conveyincs thereafter made of such title as set out in the special
verdict. The defendant claimed under a title derived from
Medcef Eden, under the above mentioned clause in his father's will, he having survived his brother. If Joseph
Eden took an estate tail, it was, by operation of the statufe of the State of New-York abolishing entails, converted into a fee simple absolute, and the subsequent linmi.tation became inoperative. That statute (passed the 23d
of February, 1786) declares, " That in all cases where any
person would,'if this act had not been passed, at any time
hereafter become seised in fee tail of 'any lands, by virtue
of any devise before made, or hereafter to be made, such
persqn, instead of becoming seised thereof in fee* tail, sl iAl
be deemed and adjudged to become seised thereof in fee
simple absolute." So that if Joseph would have taken.an,
estate tail undet the will, if the act of 17Q6 had not been'
passed, by operation of the statute he became seisea of ai
estate in fee simple absolute, which was liable to be sold oki
the judgment against him, and the title under which the lessor climed would be complete. But if Joseph took an
estate in fee, defeasible in the event of his dying without.
issue, in the lifetime of his brother, (which event happened,)
then Joseph's interest in the land became extinct onhis
-death, and the limittion over to is brother Medcef was

OF TlE UNITED STATES.

155

good as an executory devise, and the defendant would con- 1827,
sequently be entitled to judgment.
V.
A judgment was entered upon the special verdict Yn the Jackson
Court below, for the defendant, pro forma, by consent of Chew
parties, for the purpose of bringing the cause before this
Court.
The cause was argued by the Attorneey General, and Mr.
D. B. Ogden, for the plaintiff and by Mr. Webster, and Mr.
Vheaeon, for the defendant.
On the part of the plaintiff, it was insisted, that Joseph
Eden took an estate tail under the devise to bun, which, by
the operation of the statute of 1786, was converted nto a
'tee simple absolute. The general rule that the words -ytng
vithout ssue import an indefinite failure of issue, was !rdlied
on to support this construction of the will.,' And, although
it was admitted that there were circumstances which would
limit those words to a definite failure of issue, yet it was denied that there were any qualifying expressions in this devise which would have that effiuct. There were certainly
none such, unless the words, "his share or part shall go to
the surrivor," could be considered as having that pffect.
The earliest case, which would probably be relied upon to
show that these expressions limited the failure of issue to
issue living at the death of Joseph Eden, was that of Pells v.
"Bronwn,b where the testator dei ised to " Thomas his son,
and his heirs, for ever, paying to -his brother Richard 20
pounds at the age of 21 years, and if Thomas died without
issue, lirtng 0illiam, his brother, that then William, his
brother, should have those lands to him, his heirs and assigns, for ever, paying the said sum as Thomas sbpuldhave
paid." Thomas having died without issue, and William
having survived him, ifwas determined that thij was a contingent fee to William by way of executory devise. Now,
to test the authority of this case as to the effo t of theword
a The counsel here referred to all the cases cited, and con n,*nted
on byMr. Chancellor Kent, in Anderson v. Jackson, 16 rohi,- . Rep.
405--49.
-b CGro. .Ac. 590.

3cam. 25th.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
durwvor, it- was only necessary to refer to King v. RumSballd decided three years before, in wluch a devise to three
Jackson daughters, and ifthey all died without sssue, then over, was
V.
Chew. held to create an estate tail, and to the case of Chadock v
Crowl]j,6 determined four years subsequent to Pells v.
Brown, where the same Court held, that the word survivor
had no such effect as is here attributed to it. In that case
tlip testator devised all his lands in Bradmere to Thomas,.
his son, and his heirs, for pver, and his lands in Eastleak, to
Francis, his son, and his heirs, for ever, and then added:
" Item. I will that the survvor of them shall be& heir to
the other, if either of them-die without issue." This was
held to be an estate tail in Thomas. As to the more modern cases of Porte; v. Bradleyc and Roe v. Jeffray, which
would be relred upon to show that the term surmvor had
this effect, the remarks of Mr. Justice Story, in Lillibndge
v. ./idie, might be applied to these cases, and would, at the
same time, illustrate the general question. " In respect to
terms of years, and otherpersonal estates, Courts have very
much inclined to lay hold of any words to tie up the gene.
rality of the expression, dying without issue, and to confine
it to dying without issue living at the time of the person's decease. But, in respect to freeholds, the rule has been rigtdly enforced, and rarely broken in upon, tinless there
were strong circumstances to repel it/ The cases of Porter v. Bradley, anid Roe v Jejfray, have gone a great way,
but they turn on distinctions, which, though nice, clearly
recognise the general rule." In a recent English case, the
word stirvzvorr was relied upon to raise an inference of restrictive intention, but Sir W Grant held, that the word
had the same sense as the word others, " as (says he) has
1827.

a
b
c
d

Cro. r"ac. 448. S.P. Webb v. Reanig, .6.415.
Cro. Jac. 695.
3 Term Rep. 148.
7 Term Rep. 585.
i1 Mason's Rep. 256.

f Fearne's Ex. Dev. 357- 861. Butler!s ed. 471-476. Cooke
v. De Vandes, 9 Pes. 197. Dansey v. Griffith, 4 Moule 4' S0.

01? THE UNITED STATES.

157

1827.
been frequently decided."' So,. in Massey v. Hudson6 in
a case of personal property, the presumption that a bequest '.vVw'
over to the sur%vor of two persons, after the death of one Jackson
V.
Chew.
without issue, was meant as a personal benefit to the survivor, was held to be repelled by the addition of the-words
executors, admrmstrators, or asstgns. Roe v. Scott 4r
Smart,' presented precisely the same case with that before
the Court; and yet it was there held, that the indefiniteness
was not regtricted by force of the word survivor. In the
present case it could riot be consitjered as having that effiect,
because the testator, in using the term survivor, did not intend the individual brother surviving, but the surviving
branch; consequently, if ledcef had died, having issue, in
the life time of Joseph, and Joseph had afterwards died
without issue, the issue of Medcef would have taken Joseph's share ; and so, also, in case of any moxe remote
failure.
As to the local decisions in the State Courts of NewYork, giving a construction to this and other siinilar clauses
in wills, it was said that the present question did not turn
upon the interpretation which the local tribunals had given
to the statute of 1786, or upon any other law peculiar to
the State; but that -he sole question was, whether Joseph
Eden took an estate tail, which was a question of general
law; and if he did, it was incontestible that the statute converted his estate into a fee simple, and, consequently, the
plaintiff was entitled to recover. The decisions of the
State Courts would receive no more respect in the present
case, than in any other question of common law which
might come before this Court; and to show that the State
decisions had proceeded upon mistaken grounds, the arguments and authorities urged by Mr. Chancellor Kent, in
Aqnderson v. Jackson,5 were relied upon, and enforced with
a great variety of illustrations.
a. Barlow v. Saltr, 17 1 es. 479 -

b Meriv. 135.
c %Fearn's.Ex.Dev. (4th ed.) 20,.
/1 16 Johns. Rep. 897. 4e4.

158

GASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

I827.

On the part of the defendant, it was admitted that
devise to take effect after a preceding estate in fee
simple, upon an indefinite failure -of issue, or (which is

Sa

,Tackson
V.

Cl-ew,

the same thing) where there are no expressions restricting that ftilure to a life in being, and the usual allow-anct. &dr minority and gestation, cannot operate as an execu- ory devise,,because it would tend to a perpetual restriction •of alienation, and is, therefore, void. But where
the :ailure of -ssue is definite, and by plain words or necessar imlieation, declared to-take effect, if at all, within a
life i4n
being a limitation by executory devise-is valid, and
wotld )esustained both in England and New-York. But
the peculiar state of the. law of real property in England,
would account for the application of a different rule to the
"contru'itionof these limitations, when applied to real property, from what would prevail in the case of personal property ;a whilst the institutions of this country might justify
and 'keiire the applicatioAl of the same rule to both.
It,wV.not, howqver , deemed necessary to resort to this
distinction, sinceit was insisted that the construction put
upoh ttis devise was sustained by the general currentof decisions in Westminster Hall, ever since Pells v. Broza,
which had been called by Lord Kenyon '"the magna charta
of this branch of the lW," and had never been departed
from.d In that case, the devise over was in the event of
the first-taker dying' without issue, -living his brother William; in this case, the devise over is to the survzvor of the
two brothers. In grammatical and legal construotion, it is
impossible to distinguish between a brother survivzng, and
a brother living at the death of the first taker. All the too-'
dern cases confirm the authority of Pells v. Brown, and it
was also sustained by the general principles and analogies of
the law.e As to the anomalous case of Uhadock v. Crowa Forth v. Chapman, 665.
b 1 2orth Carolina Lmv Rep. 544. 1 Hem 4 Mnef. 501. S0
Johts. Rep. 483.
c Cro) Jac. 590.
d Rorer v. Bradley, 3 Ter-m Rep. 148. Lippitt Y.Hopkins,
I Gallis,'460.

e 1 P .t,7. 534. 565. Porter v. Bradley, 3 Terr.Rep. 145.
Roe v. Jdfray, 7 Term Rep. 589. Beacroft v. Broom. 4 Term
Rep. 440.

OF THE UNITED STATEb.

1.591

lety, it was directly contrary to the authority of Plls y. 1827.
Brown, and the long series of decisions following it, and,
V.
therefore, could not be law, even supposing it to be cor- Jackson
rectly reported, wf-ich might well be doubted. That case Chew.
states, that if the devise bad been, " that if he died without
issue in the life-of the other, or before such7an age, that then

it should remain to the other, then, peradventure, it should
be a contingent devise in tail, if it should happen, and not
otherwise." No lawyer would pretend, at this day, that a
devise to one and his heirs, and in case he die without issue
in the life of another, or if he died before the age of 21,
then over,, is an estate tail, either vested or contingent. It
is, like the present case, an estate in fee simple, defeasible
on the event happening, with a valid exaeutcry devise over.
The other cases cited by Mr. -Chancellor Kentb would all
be found to range themselves under one bf the followisig
classes: (1.) Where there are no words to cottrol the inde-.
finite failure'of issue.c (2.) Where the first estate is onlyfor liWe, and enlarged by implication to an estale tail by the
(3.) Where the first
limitation, over, or failure pf tssu.
taker left sssue, and the executory devise, in consequence.
could not take efect.6 (4.) Several cases cited against the
construction insisted on, by the defendant 'in the present
case, which" are manifestly in favour of that construction.
a C;o. Jac 695.

b Anderson v. Jackson, 16'Johns. Rep. 397--44.
c Tenny v. Agar, 1East.21. Romilly Y.James, 6 Taunt. 263.
Bnce v. Smith, 1 H'ilks. 1. Doe v. Tennereau, Doug!. 487. Denn
v. Siater, 5 Term Rep. 885. Doe v. Ellis, 9 East, 882. Huntefv-.
Ide v. Ide, 5 Mass. Rep. 500. Royal v.
Haynes, I Iash. 171
Eppes, S Munf.479.
d Webb v. Herring, Cro. Jac. 415. King v. Rumbal, Cro. Tac.
44g. Button v. Wood, Camer. & Norio. ,02. '
e Roe v. Scott, 2.Fearnt, 59: Hope v. Taylor, 1 Burr. 268. Doe
v. Rivers, 7 Term Rep. 276. Denn v. Slater, 5 Term Rep. 5..
f Kirkpatrick v, Kirkpatick, 15 Ves. 476. Richardson v.'Noyes,
I Mass. Rep. 56. Porter v. Bradley, 6 Term Rep. 143. Roe v.
Jeffray, 7 Tem Repr 585. pjaver v: Shitz, S Yates, 205. Ray v..
Eftln,.%Mass. Rep. 554. ,Keatingv.Reynolds, IBa y 80. Jone-

Rice, $Dessaus. 165.

160

.ASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1827.
Jackson

In .llassie v. Hudson,a the Master of the Rolls considers
Sthe words. executqrs, admtntstrators,and assigns, a show-

ing the intent of the testator to vest the interest, and make

V.

Chew.

it transmissible. But, in the present case, there are no words
of limitation annexed , and ifit be said they are implied, the
same might be said of every legatee, who, if no words of restriction are added, takes an absolute interest transmissible to
his executors, &c. But, here, the interest was neither vested nor transmissible. BarlozD v. Salterb cannot be recon.
ciled with the general course of English adjudications in
cases of personal property, and is entirely inconsistent with
the American authorities.c As to the notion of the word
survzvor being used to indicate the surviving branch or
stock; in the recent case of Wollen v Andrews,5 it is expressly laid down, that " survivor or survivors," mean not the
surviving stocks, but the surviving children. And Mr. Fearnes
observes,that though theauthoritieshave established onsolid
ground the power of testamentary dispositions of contingent
and executory estates, and possibilities coupled with an interest, and such as would be descendible to the heir of the object
of them dying before the contingency or event on which
the vesting or acquisition of the estate depended; yet the
decisions do not appear to reach those cases, where the contingent interest is not transmissible from any person, until
the contingency decides him to be the oblect of the limitation. Now it has been decided, that a testamentari disposition of an estate, de.vised to the survivor of two persons,
while both are alive, is not valid, although the person making the disposition becomes the survivor; because, till by
the death of the other he so becomes the survivor, he has
no interest whatever in the land! .So, also, Mr. Prestonobserves, that mere possibilities to persons not ascertained, as
to the survivor of severalpersons, are not coupled with an
a 2 Merw. 10.
b 17 Yes.479.
r Fearne, 481. note. i Serg. 8 Rawle, 14 1-159. 3 Serg. &*
Raiwl, 470,
d e 9ing. 126.
Bi-. Der. (6th Lond. ed.) :45p.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
interest, and are not devisable, nor, he apprehends,
transferrable to assignees under a commission of bankrapt.' So, again. "titles under possibilities or expectancies are of two descriptions. (1) Possibilities coupled
with an interest. (2) Possibilities without any interest.
Those possibilities which are not coupled with an interest
are not devisable, but all titles under them may be barred,
excluded, or lound by estoppel. Such are the expectancies of an heir apparent or presumptive, or of persons
where the gift is to the survivor, and both are living." b So
a power given to the survivor of two persons, cannot be
well executed by both of them while alive.c
In addition to the argument upon the case, as a question
of general law, the counsel referred to the decisions of the
State Courts of New-York, as conclusively establishing the
construction contended for on the part of the defendant in
error, as a settledrule of property in that State ;d and to the
decisions of this Court, showing that the law thus established by a long series of adjudications in the local, tribunals,
would be respected here. e

1827.
'
Jackson
V.

Chew.

Mr. Justice TnomPsoN delivered the opinion of the Court, Feb. fito..
and'after stating the case, proceeded as follows:
Questions growing out of devises of this description, are
among the most difficult and intricate doctrines of the law ;
and from the numerous cases that have arisen, as found reported in the books, it will be seen, that nice and almost imperceptible distinctions have been resorted to, with the
avowed object of carrying into effect the intention of the
testator. To review the cases that have arisen in the Ena 1 Preston on Estates,76.
b Preston's Abstr. tit. 204.

c Sugd. Powers, 162. 3 Bro. Cl. t1o.
d Fosdick v. Cornell, I Johns. Rep. 440. Jackson v. Blansbaw,
S JoAnS. Rep. 292. Mofrat V.Strong, 10 Johns. Rep. 12. Jackson
v. Staats, 11 Johns. Rep. 337. Jackson v. Anderson, 16 Johns.
Rep. 382. Wilkes v. Lion, 2 Cowen's Rep. 8i5
a 5 Cranch, se. 9 Cranch, 98. 6 Wheat. Rep. 127. 7 Meat.
Rep. 550. 8 Wheat. Rep. 585-542. 1o 111teat. Rep. 159. )1
Ifiat. Rep. 307, 8.
S
VOL. XIT.

CASES iN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.
Jackson

glish Courts on these questions, would be an arduous, and
Sto reconcile them, a difficult, if not a fruitless undertaking.
Nor are the decisions of the State Courts in our owL coun-

Chew.

try in perfect harmony with each other. It is not deemed
Unnecessary necessary, however, in the present case. o enter into an exto discuss the amination of these various decisions, either for the purnose
case as a ques- of.
'
tion ofgeneral of attempting to reconcile then, or to extract from them
law.
Appi- principles,
which might be applicable
to the case now be'
P
cation of theprinciple,
that fore the Court, if the question was considered enftirely an
the local decisions ae to open question. The inquiry is very much narrowed, by apcontrol,
plying the rule which has uniformly governed this Court,
that where any principle of law, establishing a rule of real
property, has been settled in the State Courts, -thesame rule
will be applied by this Court that would be applied by the
State tribunals.
This is a principle so obviously just, and so indispensably
necessary, under our system of government, that it cannot
be lost sight of.
.ecions in The inquiry, then, is, whether the question-arising in this
the
State
Courts upon case, has been so settled in the State Courts of New-York,
this case, and as to be considered at rest there. Numerous cases have
other analogous cases, re- come before thoseCourts upon this queston; some on the
viewed.
very clause in the will now under consideration; others on
wills containing clauses very analogous, and which, in those
Courts at least, have been considered identical with the
present.
I shall proceed to notice some of the leading cases there
decided, to see how the law on this question is held to have
been settled in that State. In the case of .1nAaerson v.
.lackson, (16 Johns. Rep. $82.) decided in the Court for the
Trial of Impeachments and Correction of Errors, in the
year 1819, the decision turned solely upon the construction
of this very clause in- the will of Medcef Eden, the elder,
affirming the judgment of the Supreme Court, which had
been given without argument, the Court considering the
question raised to have been settled by former eases; and
the Court of Errors,'in affirming the judgment of the Supreme Court, put it principally upon the same ground, and
considered the question at rest by the repeated and uniform
aecisions of the Supreme Court for the -last twelve or fourteen years. It may be useful to recur to the progress of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1827.
these decisions, to see the steady and uninterrupted course
of the Courts upon the question, and how firmly the prinSackson
ciple has become ingrafted in the law of that State as a rule
Chew.
of landed pibperty.
v
Cornell,
Fosdick
The firstltcase that arose, was that of
(1 Johns. Rep. 440.) in the year 1806. By the will there in
question, the devise over was, "My mind and will is, that if
any of my said sons, William, Jacob, Thomas, and John, or
my daughter Mary, shall happen to.die without heirs male
of their owff bodies, then that the lands shall return to the
survivors, to be equally divided between them." And iS
was held by the-Court unanimously, that this clause did not
create an'estate tail, but was to take effect as an executory
devise. In the case of 4nderson v. Jackson, the doctrine of
that case was consideredapplicable to the Eden will, and
to govern its construction. And it was not pretended by
the dissenting members of the Court of Errors, but that if
the case of Fosdick v. Cornell was correctly decided, it
would govern the case then before the Court. And the
whole strength of the argument in the very elaborate opinions given by the dissenting members, was applied to the
purpose qT endeavouring to show that the decisions in that
case, and in those which rested upon- it, had proceeded upon
incorrect views of the law, as decided both in the English
And American Courts. Chancellor Kent here took occasion to announce his change of opinion on this question,
and to say, that although he did not deliver the opinion of
the Court, he would not shelter himself under his silence,
but partook of the error; but that he had discovered, years
ago, that the case of Fosdick v. Cornell was decided on mistaken grounds. If this should be admitted, (which I certainly do not mean to admit,) it is an error which has been
so repeatedly sanctioned by all the Courts of that State, for
the last twenty years, that it has ripened into a settled rule
of law. And a reference to.the cases which followed that
of Fosdick v Cornell, will show that it has become a rule
so fastened upon the law of real property in that State, as
to make it unwise and unsafe to disturb it.
In the case of Jackson v. Blanslzaw, (3 Johns. Rep. 289.1
deczided in the year 1808. Tbe question before the Court

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
arose upon a will, where the testator devised "all his estate,
1827.
-f. / real and personal, to his six children, to'be equally divided
Jackson between them, share and share alike, but if any of them
V.
died before arriving at full age, or -without lawful issue, that
Chew.
then his, her, or their part, should devolve upon and be
equally divided among the surviving children, and to their
heirs and assigns, for ever." This was held to be a good
devise over by way of executory devise, and Chief Justice
Kent, in delivering the opinion of the Court, refers to the
case of 4osdick v. Cornell, and observes, that the Court
there reviewed the leading authorities, and held, that the devise over was a good executory devise, and that the true
construction was, a devise over to take effect on failure of
male issue during the life of the first taker. That the ancient case of Hanbu.,y v. Cockrill, (1 Roll. ./br. 835.) was
quite analogous in favour of the executory devise. The
devise there was to the two sons in fee, with a proviso, that
if either died before they should be married, or before they
should attain the age of 21 years, and without issue of their
bodies, then his share should go to the survivor. That Lord
Kenyon, in the two cases of Porter v. Bradly, and Roe v,
Jeffery, (3 Term Rep. 14-3. 7 Term Rep. 589.) supported
this established construction in a very forcible manner; and
that the case before the Court could not be distinguished in
principle from those in vhich this rule of law is settled be.yondcontrorersy. Again; in the case of the Executors of
.Moffat v. Strong, (10 Johns. Rep. 12.) decided in the year
1313, the testator, after giving certain specific parts of his
real and personal estate to his sons, adds this provision:
"' And if any of my sons aforesaid should die without lawful
issue, then let his or their part or parts be divided equally
among the survivors." Although-this was a case of personal property, the judgment of the Court did not rest upon
that distinction. Chief Justice Kent, in delivering the opimon of the Court, says, " The greatest di.hcui..y that arises
tog
in starting the main point for consideration, is to avon
overwhelmed and confounded by the multitude ot cdae'.
Lord Thurlow said there were fifty-seven cases on this
point, and we know they have greatly increased since."
4nd. after reviewing many of the leading cases, the Chiet

OF THE UNITED STATES.

165

Justice observes, if the limitation rested solely on the words
1827.
dying without issue, it would fail, but the will proceeds,
and gives the part of the son so dying without issue to the Jackson
V.
survivors. The term survivors will be found to rescue the. Chew.
limitation from the operation of the general principle, and
to bring it within the reach of other cases, which have adjudged that expressiorn to be the cause of a different construction, and for the reason that it could not have been intended that the survivor was to take only after an indefinite
failure of issue, as that event might happen long after the
death of all the survivors. Thus stood the question when
the Chief Justice ,.-is transferred to the Court of Chancery,
no diversity of opinion having existed on the bench upon
the question, according to the reported cases. The next
case that came before the Court was that of Jackson v.
Staats, (I I Johns. Rep. .337.) in the year 1814, and the construction of a similar-clause in a will was under consideration. Spencer, J., in delivering the opinion of the Court, observes, that "the point, whether the limitatiou over operates as an executory devise, or to create an estate tail, admits of very little difficulty. The case of Fo'sdick v Cornell is in point, that this is a good executory devise;" and
adds, "1 believe none of. us have ever doubted the correctness of the decision in that case, and it would be a waste of
time to review the authorities there cited." So that the law
on this point was considered settled, and not open to argument, until it was again stirred, in the case of .Anderson v.
Jackson, in the Court of Errors, upon the clause in Eden's
will, now under consideration,,and the rule of construction
settled in the Supreme Court, was considered applicable to
this will, and governed the decision in the Court of Errors.
Again, in the year 1823, the const iction of this same clause
in Eden's will came before the Supreme Court, in the case
of Lion v. Burtis; (20Johns.Rep. 483.) and Spencer, Ch.J.,
in delivering the opinion of the Court, referred to the case
of Anderson v. Jackson, in the Court of Errors, and said, it
was there decided that the devise to Joseph Eden did not
create an estate tail, but that the devise over, upon the event
of Jius dying without issue, Was a limitation over as an executory devise to Medcef, the survivor.- That the opinion

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.
\.o,%.
Jackson
V.
Chew.

of the Court was, that the devise over to the survivor did
not depend on an indefinite failure of issue, but only on a
failtire -of issue at the time of Joseph's death. " This,
then," said the Chief Justice, "is the 'law of the land. and
must govern every other case coming within the same prin-.
ciple. And I must be allowed to say. that subsequent reflection bag confirmed my conviction of the soundness of
the decision in the Court of Errors. Stare deczsis is a maxim
essential to the security of property. The decisions of
Courts of law become a rule for the regulation of the alienation and descent of real estate, and when that rule has
been sanctioned and adopted in our Courts, it ought to bn
adhered to, unless manifestly wrong and utnust."
Other questions were, however, embraced in this case,
and it was afterwards brought before .the Court of Errors,
(2 Owen. 333.) and a preliminary question was made, whether .he Court would hear an -argnment on the point decided in the case of Anderson v. Jackson. But as that
question was so involved with other questions in the
cause, it was found .difficult entirely to separate them,
and the argument proceeded; the President. of the Court
at the same time observing, that he should suppose counsel
would not question any point plainly decided in Afiderson-v.
Jackson, both in its principle and objecti and that he had no
doubt the Court would abide by its decision in that case. In
the course 9 f the argument, when the.. bearing of the case
of Anderson v. Jackson was fully understood, it was pro.
posed to stop the counsel, so far as the decisi6n in that case
was called in question; and the Chancellor (Sanford). expressed his determination-to adhere to that decision. That
he understood it to fix distinctly a construction upon the
clause whichdevises to Joseph Eden, and was prepared to
say it did not carry an estate tail, but a fee determinable on
his death without issue then living. And although the counsel were allowed to proceed, and the question again fully argued, the Court, when they came to pronounce judgment,
disclaimed, in very strong language, any intention to call in
question the decision of Anderson v. Jackson. Cramer,
Senator, observes: "The Court has been called upon, in a
Ye, solemn manner, to review its decision on an important

OF THE UNITED STATES.

167

rule of law affecting titles to real property. But we have 1827.
not, in my view of the subject, the power (and by power I ...Jackson
mean right) now to question or impeach that judgment renChew.
dered by this Court. and founded on the uniform.decsions
of the Supreme Court during a period of more than seventeen years. Wills have beer, made, and estates settled, on
the principle of these cases, which have been deemed and
treated as the settled law of the land." And the judgment of the Supreme Court was unanimously affirmed, with
the exception of one Senator.
After such a settled course of decisions, and two of them
in the highest Court of law in the State, upon the very
clause in the will now under consideration, deciding that
Joseph Eden did not takelan egtate tail, a contrary decision
by this Court would present a conflict between the State
Courts and those of the United States, prodhctive of incalculablemis'chief. If, after such an uninterrupted series of
decisions for twenty years, this question is not at rest in
New-York, it is difficult to say when any question can be so
considered. And it will be seen by referehce to the decisions of this Court, that to establish a contrary doctrine here,
would be repugnant to the principles -%ihich have always
governed this Courtnia like cases.
it has been urged, however, at the bar, that this Court ap- This Court aiopts the local
plies this jrinciple only to State constructions-of their own law of real
as
statutes. It is true, that many of the cases in which this property,
ascertained by
decision:
Court has deemed.itself boun4 to conform to State decisions, the
State
of the
have arisen on the tonstruction of statutes. But the same Court,; Whederule has been extended to other cises; and there can be no ther
clollthose are
good reason assigned why it should'not be, when it is applying g.ounded on
Mterpretation of stasettled rules of real property. This Court adopts the State 9h6
decisions, because they settle the law applicable to the case; tuts,; or on
a beto c~wc ahfxed
and the reasons assigned for this course, apply as well]a,
of prorules of construction groping out of the common law, as"
in the
perty
of
title
to,
the
applied
when
State,
the
of
the statute law
pre-Staten
to
order
in
indispensable,
is
course
a
such
And
lands.
uniformity, otherwte the peculiar constitution of the
serve.
I
judicial tribunals of the States and of the United States,
would be productive of the greatest mischief and confusion.

168
1827.

,ASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
The case of .lKeen v. Delancy's Lessee, (5 Cranch, 32.)
upon the construction of a statute. And the Court
say, " If the act then in question was for the first time to be

Sarose

Jack

construed. the opinion of the Court would be, that the deed
(Cases inwas not properly proved, and, therefore, not legally rethis corded. But in construing the statutes of a State, on which
which
Court has recognised the land titles depend, infinite mischif would ensue, should
Siatedectsinus this Court observe a different rule from that which has been
aS conclusive
on questions of long established in the State."7 And whether these rules of
land titles grow out of the statutes of a State, or principles
local law.
Chew.

of the common law adopted and appli 9 d 'to such titles, can
make no difference. There is the same necessity and fitness in preserving uniformity of decisions in the one case as
in the other. So, also, in the cases of Polk's Lessee v. Wendal, (9 Crunch, 98.) and Thatcher v. Pownell, (6 Wheat.
Rep. 127.) the construction of State statutes respecting real
property was under consideration; and the,Court say, they
will adopt, and be governed by, the State construction, when
that is settled, and can be ascertained, especially where the
title to lands is in question. But in the case of Blight's
Lessee v. Rockester, (7 Wheat. Rep. 550.) which arose in
Kentucky, the question was not upon the construction of
any statute, but related to the doctrine of estoppel, between
vendor and vendee; and. it was utged at-the bar, that the
question was settled by authority in Kentucky, and cases
cited to establish the point. T4e authorities'were examined, and considered by the Court as not deciding the question, but no intimation is given that they were inapplicable, because the question did not involve the construction of
a statute. And the case of Daly v. James, (8 Wheat. Rep.
535.) which arose in Pennsylvania, is directly in point.
The -question there vias upon the interpretation of a clause
in a will, which had received a judicial construction by the
Supreme Court of that State. And it was urged, as it has
been here, that it was not one of those cases where the decisions of State Courts, on questions of local law, esta.
blished rules of property which this Court could not disturb. But the Court said, they always listened with respect
to the adjudications of the different States, when they apply. And in a question of so much doubt, they were dis-

OF THE UNITED STATES.
Tposed, upon this point, to acquiesce in the decision of the
1827.
Supreme Court 'of that State, (Smith v. FozoeI,-I Binn.
546.) that the word " heirs" in the will is to be cpnstrued Armstrong
V.
to be a word of limitation.
Lear.
In that case this Court adopted a single decision of the
State Court upon the question. But,.in the case now under
consideration, there have been two decisions in the two
highest Courts of law in the State upon the identical question now in judgment, and which were in conformity to a
settled course of adjudications for twenty years past.
After such a series of adjudications for such a length of
time, in the State Courts, upon the very pglnt now before
us, and relating to a rule of landed property in that State,
we do not 'eel-ourselves- at liberty to treat it as an open
question.
Judgment affirmed, with costs.

[Lzx Loci.

ARtSTRONG

PROBATE

or

TiSTAMENTARY PAPER.]

agamst LEAR, Admiistrator(with the will an-

nexed) of KoscIUszKo.
-A testamentary paper executed in a foreign country, even if exqcuted
so as to give it the eflect of a last will and testament by the foreign law, cannot be made the foundation of a suit for a legacy 14
the Courts of this country, until it has received probate here, in the
Court having the peculiar jurisdiction of the probate of wills and
other testamentary matters.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Columbia.
The bill, filed on theChancery side of the Circuit Court,
stated, that Thaddeus Kosciuszko, on the 5th of May, 1798,
placed a fund in the hands of Thomas Jefferson, and exe.
cuted a will, as follows : "I, Thaddeus Xosciuszko; being
just on my departure from America, do hereby declare and
Vor. XIHi9-2

