CASES IN THE SUPREM,

COURT

1827.
MConnell

[LocAL LAw.]

Vo

The Town of

Lexington. M'CONNELL against THE TRUSTEES Or THE TowN or LEXINGTON.

A question in equity as to the title to a lot of land in the town of Lexington, Kentucky, reserved as public property, and claimed as having been appropriated by the plaintiff's ancestoY.
under the circumstances of the case.

Bill dismissed

Feb. I2th.

This cause was argued by Mr. Rowan for the plaintiffi, and
by Mr. Talbot for the defendant.

Feb. s.

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This suit was 'bro.ught in the Court of the United States
for the Seventh Circuit and District of Kentucky, against
fbc trustees of the town of Lexington, and others, to obtain
a conveyance of tn and oul lots, No. 43, in that town, or of
such other lots in lieti of them as might still remain to be
conveyed, by the trastees. The whole of out lot No. 43; and
a part of the in lot, had been conveyed to other persons who
had been in possession for such a length of time as to bar the
plaintiff's action. The bill was, therefore, dismissed by the
plaintiffas against those defendants, and continued against the
trustees.
The commonwealth of Virginia had, in 1773, by an act
commonly called "the land law," reserved 640 acres of
land for the benefit of those who had settled in a village or
station, that ;t might be afterwarda 1-4- -.ut into lots for a
town. and divw eu dwong such settlers. The inhabitants of
Lexington purchased 70 acres adjoining the reserve of 640
acres, and after laying the'whole off in lots and streets, petitioned the assembly to establish a town. The legislature,
in May, 1782, passed an act, vesting the whole 710 acres in
trustees, who were empowered to make conveyances to
those e- cm:iwho had already settled on the said lots, as
also to the purchasers of lots theretofore sold . and to lay off

OF THE UNITED STATES.

53 8 11

1 ;.
such other parts of the said land as was not then laid off
and settled into lots and streets, and to sell, or otherwise ,
MAConnell
dispose of theltame, for the beinefit of the inhabitants.
7
James MWConnell was one of the settlers in Lexington, The'Town of
and was killed by the Indians in 1782. His brother and heir Lexington
at law, Alexander M'Comell. filed this bill in 1815. and
founds his claim on proof that he had in his lifetime erected
a tannery on %nlot No. 43, on which was a large spring, and
on the following order of the board of trustees :
"At a meeting of the board of trustees for the town ot
Lexington, September 30th, .1782, No. 43 in and out loL
granted to James MConnell, to be appraised, and the valuation thereof redound to the heirs of said M'C6nnell, deceased."
The trustees, in their answer, insist that in lot No. 43
never was granted to James MICQnnell, but a part of it
has always been considered as reserved, on account of a
ipring upon it, for the use of the inhabitants. They are informed by the old settlers that the privilege of establishing a
tannery on that lot was ib the year 1781 granted to James
M-Connell, who did establish one, and that the order ofapI
praisement was intended to cause a valuation of the improve.
ments and of the leather iim
the tannery, nbt of the lot itself;.
and that so much of the entry as appiies to the lot itself is a
mistake of the clerk. They-say that other lots, not these,
were granted to MbConnell. They also insist on the length
of time which has elapsed, and on the statute of limitations.
Several certificates from the clerk, and extracts from the
record books of the trustees, are filed as exhibits in the
cause. From one of these certificates it appears, that, on,
the 20th of December, 1781, at the first arrangement of 27&
and out lots of the town of Lexington, among the settlers,
zn lot No. 18, and out lt No. 37, were granted to James
M'Connell as his donation lots. The out lot appears to have
been transferred by John Clarke, whose connexion with
M6Connell is not stated, to Robert Parker, to whose assignee
a conveyance was made by the trustees in August, 1785.
An assignment by Alexander M1'Connell, as heir at law of
James, of his title to an out lot in the town of Lexington,
.nade in May. 1795. is produced: hut this assignment neithe,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.

mentions the number. of the lot, nor the name of the assignee.
il'Connell
Another certificate from the clerk states, that in lot No.
V.
TheT6%vnof 18 was granted on the 26th of March, 1781, to William
Lexington. Stultc, and afterward, on the 2(Ah of December, 1781, to Benjami Hayden. It was afterwards, on the 1st of July, 1783,
awarded to James i-rConnell, and'afterwards, on the 8th of
March, 1785, was forfeited. The cause of forfeiture is not
mentioned. The presumption is, that it must have been on
account of the non-performance of some condition on which
the allotment was made.
The entries of the orders made by the trustees seem to be
in great confusion. This may be well accounted for by the
.then situation of that country. Some time in the ypar 1784,
or 1785, Robert Parker, then clerk of the-board ofirustees,
was'ordered to transcribe their old- books. Many of their
entries were made on small scraps of paper, and on backs of
old letters. The book then made. out is said to be lost..
There is, however, a book of records.
The imperfect and confused state of the books has made
it necessary to resort to the testimony of witnesses to supply
facts which the books do not disdlose.
It is very well ascertained, that the large spring, below
1"Inch M'Connell's tan vats were sunk, was enclosed within
II te stockade, and was used by the inhabitants of the fdrt geneLally. It is also in proof that the settlers were each entitled
to an in and out lot, and that the trustees frequently allowed
thobe who were dissatisfied with the lots which they drew,
to exchange them for others not previously granted.
William Stule, who was one of the original trustees, deposes, that.the lot on which the tan vats were sunk in spring,
178, was called XiConnelPs lot, butihe does not recollect
any contract between M-Connell and the trustees, or
any disposition made by them of the lot; until a part of it
was given to Bradford, on which to erect a printing office.
Robert Patterson was also one of the original trustees.
and was friend and relation of M'Connell. He deposes that.
M'Connell was a tanner; the trustees being desirous to attract tradesmen to the station, permitted M'Con.,sll tocrect
a-tan yard on the lot in contesf about the fall, 171. That
the depon~at wa- puthorized by the trustees about the year

OF THE UNITED STA'TES.

5S5

1827.
33
4
3 or 1784, to clear out and wall up the public spring, for
which he was paid by them. That it was called and used .
V.
as the public spring from the first settlement of the town. D'conne11
He believes M'Connell was permitted to use part of the lot Th Townaf
as a tannery for the people of the town, because it was more Le.,)ngton.
convenient, and under cover'of the fort. While ihus used,
it was called M'Connell's tan yard. He does not know
that the trustees intended to make any other grant of the
lot than to suffer its use by M'Connell. 'They fixed a market house on the lot in 1790 or 1791, and then claimed it as
their own property. They granted part of it in the year
1787 to John Bradford, on condition of his establishing a
printing office on it, reserving the public spring and a considerable front on Main and Water streets, on Which they
erected buildings which were rented to Bradford. They
reserved a number of lots for public use.
John Torrence. William Martin, Samuel Martin, Benjamin Hayden, Joseph Mitchell, Josiah Collins, and Hugh
Thompson, were among the .early settlers of Lexington, and
were examined, some of them by the appellant, and some
by the trustees. They all concur in the'declarations, that'
the spring was public, fo the use of the people of the fort
generally, that it was called the public spring ; some that it
was called the public spring lot; that M'Connell sunk vats,
and constructed a tan yard on it, after which it was called
M'Connell's tan yard, and one witness is inclined to think
M'Connell's lot. They all concur, however, in denying
having ever heard that the lot was given torl'Connell, or to
any other person. Sbme say, though they never heard him
claim the lot,.they have heard him claim the tan yard., Jo.
seph- Mitchell swears that M'Connell claimed a lot in a dif.
ferent square. Hugli Thomson says, that the records of the
trustees, which are produced to him at the tihe his deposi.
tion is taken; plainly show that-iii lot No. 18,*and out-lot No.
38, were granted to James MIConndl. John Parker, and
Alexander Parker, tame to Leington, the one in .1783, and
the other in 1784. They were each of them rembers of the
board of.trustees, and depose to the universal understanding
that the spring tot was-reserved for public use, and had never
been granted to any person, until a part of it was grantcd to
74
VOL. XII.

586

CASES IN THE. SUPREMIE CoURT

1827.
'on
Chotard
V.

Pope.

Bradford for a printing office. Alexander Parker says, that
looking into the record books, while a trustee, he sawj
with-surprise, the entry under which Alexander M'Connell
claims, and on making inquiries from Col. Robert Patterson, also a trustee, was informed that the trustees had prevailed on James M'Connell to establish a tannery under cover of the fort, to tan bu0"aloe hides, and had, after his death,
appointed appraisers -to value his property. That the entry
appears in its present form, is the mistake of the clerk who
made it. 'He adds, that the records show, that 2n lot No. 18,
and out lot No. 38, were graited to James MConnell.
The entry under which the appellant claims lot No. 43,
does not purport to grant him that lot, but directs a valuaiffon in terms which import a former grant. No trace of that
former grant is, however, found, and the testimony is very
strong to provZ it was never made. The reasonableness of
reservinga public spring for public use; the concurrent opimon of all the settlers that it was so reserved ; the universal admission of all, that it was never understood that thle
spring lot was drawn by any pei,4on, the early appropriation
of it to public purposes; the fact that James MConnell actually claimed a different lot, added to the length of time
which has been permitted to elapse without any assertion of
title to this lot, are, we think, decisive against the appellant.
There was no error in dismissing the plaintiff's bill, and the
decree is affirmed, with costs.

[LocAL LAW.]
CHOTARD

and Others againstPoPE and Another

The act of May 8th, 1820, ch..595. "for the relief of the legal representatives of Henry Willis," did not authorize them to enter lands
within the tract surveyed and laid .off for ti town of Claiborne,
in the Slate of Alabama

