OF THE UNITED STATES.
Tposed, upon this point, to acquiesce in the decision of the
1827.
Supreme Court 'of that State, (Smith v. FozoeI,-I Binn.
546.) that the word " heirs" in the will is to be cpnstrued Armstrong
V.
to be a word of limitation.
Lear.
In that case this Court adopted a single decision of the
State Court upon the question. But,.in the case now under
consideration, there have been two decisions in the two
highest Courts of law in the State upon the identical question now in judgment, and which were in conformity to a
settled course of adjudications for twenty years past.
After such a series of adjudications for such a length of
time, in the State Courts, upon the very pglnt now before
us, and relating to a rule of landed property in that State,
we do not 'eel-ourselves- at liberty to treat it as an open
question.
Judgment affirmed, with costs.

[Lzx Loci.

ARtSTRONG

PROBATE

or

TiSTAMENTARY PAPER.]

agamst LEAR, Admiistrator(with the will an-

nexed) of KoscIUszKo.
-A testamentary paper executed in a foreign country, even if exqcuted
so as to give it the eflect of a last will and testament by the foreign law, cannot be made the foundation of a suit for a legacy 14
the Courts of this country, until it has received probate here, in the
Court having the peculiar jurisdiction of the probate of wills and
other testamentary matters.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Columbia.
The bill, filed on theChancery side of the Circuit Court,
stated, that Thaddeus Kosciuszko, on the 5th of May, 1798,
placed a fund in the hands of Thomas Jefferson, and exe.
cuted a will, as follows : "I, Thaddeus Xosciuszko; being
just on my departure from America, do hereby declare and
Vor. XIHi9-2

EASES IN THE SUPREME COURT.

direct, that, should I make no other testamentary disposition
of my property in the United States, 1 hereby authorize my
Armstrong friend, Thomas Jefferson, to employ the whole thereof in
V.
purchasing negroes, from amonghis own, or any others, and
Lear.
giving them liberty in my name, in giving them an education in trade or otherwise, and in having them instructed
for their new condition in the duties of morality, which
may make them good neighbours, good fathers or moders,
husbands or wives, in their duty as citizens, teaching them
to be defenders of their liberty and country, and of the
good order of society, and in whatsoever may.. make them
happy and useful. And I make the said Thomas Jefferson
my execut6r of this. (Signed,) T. Koscru.ziro. 5 May,
1798."
The bill further stated, that the said Kosciuszko, about
the 18th of June, 1806, being then domiciled in Pans, executed a certain will or writing testamentary, as follows:
"Know all men by these presents, that I, Thaddeus Kosctuszko, formerly an officer of the United States of America, in their revolutionary war against Great Britain, and a
native of Liloane, in Poland, at present residing at Pans,
do hereby will and direct, that, at my decease, the sum of
3,704 dollars, current money of the aforesaid United States,
shall of right be possessed by, and delivered over to the
full enjoyment and use of Kosciuszko Armstrong, the son
of General John Armstrong, Minister Plenipot6ntiary of
the said States at Paris; for the security and performance
whereof, I do hereby instruct and authorize my only lawful
executor ii the United States, Thomas Jefferson, President
thereof, to reserve, in trust for that- special purpose, of the
funds he already holds belonging to me, the aforesaid sum
of 3,704 dollars in principal, to be paid by him, the said
Thomas Jefferson, immediately after my decease, to him,
the said Kosciuszko Armstrong, and in case of his deatb, to
the use and benefit of his surviving brother. Given under
my hand and seal, at Paris, this 28th day of June, 1806.
c (Signed,) Tf,0DDEUs KoscIuSZKO. [Seal.1
-In presence of
(Signed,). CHARLEs CARTER.
JAMES M. MQRRIS.':
1827.
-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

171

That the said testator, on the day of the date of said wn- 1827.
ting, signed and sealed it in presence of two competent
witnesses, who attested the same, and acknowledged it on Armstrong.
Lear.
the same day, as his act and deed, before Fulwar Skipwith,
commercial agent, and agent for prize causes for the said
United States at Paris, and delivered it to the said John
Armstrong. That the complainant is advised that the said
paper is a last will and testament, and must operate as such,
and revokes,pro tanto, the bequests and appropriation made
in the will first mentioned. That General Kosciuszko died
the 15th of October, 1817, leaving said testament unreyoked. That said Jefferson refused to take letters testameintary under said will, and that the defendant was duly
appointed administrator with the vill annexed; that the eitate has come to his hands, and that he has been often requested to pay to complainant the 3,704 dollars aforesaid,
with interest, and refutes to pay until an order or decree of
this Court in the premises. The oill prayed for a discovery
of the funds i defdndant's hands, and whether the said
wvriti-g made at Pans is authentic, and payment of said legacy with interest, and for general relief.
The answer of the defendant admitted that he was administrator with the will annexed of General Kosciuszko, and
that the instrument mentioned in complainant's bill, and exhibited with it, was executed and acknowledged as it purports to be, and that said Kosciuszko was at the time domiciled and resident at Paris, but submitted whether he was
bound to pay said lejacy upon an instrument so executed
and acknowledged, inasmuch as Mr. Jefferson received a
letter from General Kosciuszko dated as late as the 15th of
September, 1817, in which he thus affirms, Ins first will.
" After my death you know its invartable destination,"
(speaking of this fund.) The answer admitted, that Mr.
Jefferson renounced, and the defendant was appointed, adminimtrator with the will annexed, as ,tated in the bill. The
defendant admitted funds to have come to his hands to an
amount larger than stated in the bill. The answer further
stated, tht among the papers received by the defendant
from Mr. Jefferson, is a letter from Mr. Politica to said
Jefferson, enclosing a despatch from the Vice Roi of Poland

CASES IN .THE SUPREME COURT

-172

to him, by which it appears that the whole estate of said
SKosciuszko may hereafter be claimed by a Malor Eitko, as
Axmstrong the heir at law of said Kosciuszko; that there were also
1827.
V.

Lear.

two letters from a Mr. Zeltner to Mr. Jefferson, by which
it appears that Kosciuszko had disposed of the greater part
of his fortune in favour of the children and other relations
of Zeltner.
The cause was set down for a hearing in the Court below
upon the bill and answer, and a proforma decree dismissing
the bill was entered by consent, and an appeal taken to this
Court.

etk.

~Mr. E. Lzmvngslon and Mr. .Wheaton for the appellant, argued, (1.) that the testamentary paper of 1806 was a revocation of the will of 1798 pro tanto.a"
(2.) That the will of 1798 was to be considered as wholly
void, as being contrary to the laws and policy of Virginia and
Maryland, and the defendant considered as a trustee for the
first will. b
(3.) That supposing the case was to be determined by any
peculiar law, as affecting the testator or his property, it must
be either the law of France, where he was domiciled in 1806,
when the will was made; or of this country, where he had
placed the fund in question, and of which he might be consllered a citizen; or the conventional law between France
and the United States.
The'rule of international law as' to personal property appeared to be settled by the general current ofauthority, that
as to successions ab intestato, they are to be governed by. the
law of the country where the party was domiciled at the time
of his death; and in the case of a will, by the law of the
place where it was made.c But m a recent case in the Ec-

Feb.

a 2 Afk. 86. 2 Philin.Eccles. Re1. 35-51. 1 Bre. Civ. and Adm.
Law, 293. 85.

Powel, Ed.

Swnb. pt. 1. p. 74. note 75. and cases cited by

b 4 fheat. Rep. 1. 5 Harris 8 Johns. 392. Bridg. Duke's
Pharit.Uses, 849. 466. Corn. Dig. tit. Charitable Use, (N.) 1.
c Huber. tom. 2. 1. t. 3. 2 Bos. 8 Pull. 229. note (a.) 6 Bro.
Parl. Cas. 566. 5 Ves. Jr.785. L.Binn. 88. 549. note fa.) 1 ] a'ol- 381. _08. ,8 es . . 201.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

173

1827.
clesiastical Court in England, Sir J. Nicholl had considered
-oV'qk
the anthorities as rather applying between different parts of
the same empire, than between different cuntries entirely Armstrong
V.
Lear.
foreirs to each other.& If the law of France was to be applied although the will was not executed in strict and literal
conformity with 4he forms provided by the code Napoleon,
it might be sustained as a donation mortis causa; a species
of donation which the best commentators were of opinion
was not abolished by the code, it having been preserved in
Chancellor D'Aguesseauls ordinance of 1731.6 And perhaps it might also be considered a valid donation nortis
causa by our law.' In the case above cited, determined by
Sir J. Nicholl, he refers to the Dutchess of Kingston's case,
and confirms it, where a will, "though made in France,
where she was domiciled, being made by an English
subject in the English language, and according to English
forms, and to be executed in England, was valid as to
personal property % England, though (neither being holographic nor made before a notary) it would, by the
French law, have been of no validity. Nay, not only was
it held good, but if the opinion of an eminent lawyer, (M.
Targat,) as stated in the CollectaneaJuridica.be correct, it
was good, and would operate on the property in France. " ,
But it was further insisted that the execution of the testamentary paper before the consul at Paris was conclusive of
its validity, and dispensed with the necessity of probate
in the Courts of this country. This was inferred from the
conclusive effect attributed to what are termed "authentic
actsl) by the law of France, taken in connexion with the provisions in the convention of 1800 between France and the
United States, (art. 7. 10.) and the statute of Congress of
April, 1792, ch. 126. s. 2. relating .to the powers of cona Curling Y.Thornton, Adams' Ry. 21.
b Merlin, Repertoire, tom. 4. p. 144. Paillet,Droit.ranguis, p.
159.

c 1 Swmb. 54. Prec. in Ch. 80o. -0Bro. Ch. 612. 2 "es. .1:
es, 449. 1 P. W'ns. 406. 441. Z Yes. 431
Lowndes on L
d, Adame B'ep. 21

120.

174
1827.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
suls in the verification of such acts, a4iong which testamen-.
Stary papers are included.a

Armstrong
V.
Lear.

The Attorney General and Mr. Lear, for the respondent,
contended, that the question whether the paper of 1806 was
to be considered as a revocationpro tanto ofthe willof 1798,
depended upon its being authenticated as a testamentary
disposition in the manner prescribed by the laws of this
country. They referred to the well known rule, which hal
been frequently recognised in this Court, that foreign laws
must be proved as facts. or they could not be taken notice of
judicially by our Courts.6 That consequently it was a case
for the application of the ordinary principle, that a suit could
not be maintained in a Court of equity for a legacy, without
first showing a probate in the proper Court, of the will under
which it was claimed. The admission in the deibendantis
answerdid not dispense with this preliminary, because it was
merely intended to admit that "the instrument was executed and acknowledged as it purports to be," submitting its
effect and operation to the 3udgment of the Court. Nor did
the treaty and the act of Congress, which had been referred
to, dispense with the necessity of probate of the will in the
appropriate local tribunal, where all parties interested would
hae-a right to conteAt its validity. The utmost effect that
could be attributed by the conjoint operation of the law of
France, the treaty, and the statute of-Congress, to the execution and acknowledgment of such an act as a will or a codicil, before the consuls of the United States in France,
would be to make it conclusive evidence, on which a Court
ofprobates in the United States might proceed: But it could
not be considered -as dispensing with all the local laws of
the States, on the probate of wills, and inverting the whole
order of proceeding in cases of this sort, by which the paper
must.be ascertained, by the Court having peculiar jurisdiction of testamentary causes, to be a will, before a Court of
equity can be called on to give a construction to it, and to
decree a legacy underit. Nor could. it be considered as a
a Pothier, Oblig. pt. 4. ch. 1. Co4 Naoleon, art. 1817- 1l9.
Paillet,p. 159. note(?.)
b Cranch, 28~z

OF THE UNITED STATES.

175

1827.
donation maortis causa, and therefore not requiring probate;
since, to constitute such a donation, the gift must be made in \
extremes, and must be accompanied with an actual delivery.a Armstrong
V.
Lear.
Court.
the
of
opinion
Mr. Justice STORY delivered the
The bill in this case is broughC against the administrator, Feb. 21st.
with the will annexed, of General Kosciuszko, for the purpose of establishing a right of the plaintiff to receive payment out of the assets of the testator, of a certain bequest
to him, contained in a supposed testamentary writing, executed by the testator at Pans, in France, in June, 1806. This
supposed testamentary writing is set forth in the bill, and
averred td be in the nature and of the effect of a last will
or writing testamentary ; but it does not appear to have been
admitted to probate, either in France, or in the proper
Orphan's Court of this District. The answer admits the
existence and authenticity of the instrument, and submits to
the Court its import and legal effect, and whether it is to
be deemed a last will and testament; -and it also admits assets in the hands of the administrator sufficient to discharge
the bequest. The cause was heard in the Court below upon
the bill and answer, and from the decree dismissing the bill,
the present appeal has been brought to. this Court.
The cause has been argued here upon several points, in.
volving a good deal of learning, and some doctrines of international law. We do not enter into an examination of
them, because cur judgment proceeds upon a single point,
and will, in no event, prejudice the .merits of the plaintiff's
claim.
By the common law, the exclusive right to entertain jurisdiction over wills of personal estate, belongs to the ecclesiastical Courts, and before any testamentary paper of personalty can be admitted in evidence, it must receive probate
in those Courts. Lord Kenyon, in The Kn&v. Inhabitants
-of .1etherseal, (4 Term Rep. 258.) said, "we cannot receive any other evidence of there being a will in this case,
than such as would be sufficient, in all other cases, where tia 9. B1. Corn. 514. Just. Inst. 1. 2. t. 7. S. 1. Di;g. 1.59. t. 6.
Prec. ,n Ch. £69. 1 P. ins.406, 441. 3 P. ,4Vm, 857. !2 fes. 431.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
ties are derived under a will; and nothing butthe probate
letters of administration, with the will annexed, are leArmstrong gal evidence of the will, in all questions respecting person1827.

'or

Lear.

alty." This principle of the common law is supposed to
be in force in Maryland. from which this part of the District
of Columbia derives its jurisprudence; and the probate of
wills of personalty to belong exclusively -to the proper Orphan Court here, exercising ecclesiastical jurisdiction. If
this be so, and nothing has been shown which leads us to a
different conclusion, then it is indispensable to the plaintiff's
title, to procure, in the first instance, a regular probate of
this testamentary paper in the Orplan's Court of this District, and to set forth that fact in his bill. The treaty stipulations, the act of Congress, and the principles of the law of
France, which have been cited at the argument, attributing
to them the full force which that argument supposes to establish the validity of the instrument, do not change the
forum which is entitled, by the local jurisprudence, to pronounce upon it as a testamentary paper, and to grant a probate. It is one thing to possess proofs, which may be sufficient to establish that a testamentary instrument had been
executed in a foreign country, under circumstances which
ought to give it legal effect here; and quite a different thing,
to ascertain what is the proper tribunal here, by which those
proofs may be examined, for the purpose of pronouncing a
judicial sentence thereofi.
For this reason, the decree of the Court below is to be
affirmed, but without prejudice, so that the instrument may
be submitted to the decision of the proper Probate Court.

