CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1821.
Henderson

V.

Poindexter's

Lessee.

(CONSTRUCTION OF TREATY.

LOCAL Liw.j

HENDERSON, Plaintiff ,in Error, against POINDEXTER'S

Lessee, Defendant in Error.
Spanish grants, made after the treaty of peace of 1782, between the
United States and Great Dritain, within the territory east of the
river Mississippi, and noith of a line drawn from that river at the
31st degree of north latitude, east to the middle of the river Apalachicola, have no intrinsic validity, and the holders must depend
for their titles exclusively on the laws of the United States.
No Spanish grant, made while the country was wrongfully occupied
by Spain, -can be valid, unlees it was cpnfirmed by the compact
betweenthe United'State. and the State of Georgia, of the 24th of
April, 1802, or has been laid before the board of commissioners
constituted by the act of Congress of the 3d of.M arch, 1803, ch.
540. and of March 27tb, 1804, ch. 414.

Feb. 17t4.

THIS cause was argued by Mr. Webster and Mr. Cowe,.
for the plaintiffn error 6 and Mr. D. B. Ogden, for the defendant in error.'

7t.

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a writ: of error to a judgment -rendered in the
Court of the United States for the District of Mississippi)
in an ejectment brought by the defendant in error.
George Poindexter, the lessor of the plaintiff, claimed
title to the premises in controversy by virtue of several patents regularly issued to him under the laws of the United
States. If the lands were, at the time, grantable, his title is
unquestionablo. Consequently, the case depended, in the
District Court, on the title of the Ilefendant in that Court.
Under several opinions given by the judge to the jury, to
which bills of exceptions were taken, a verdict was found

Marh

a Las Partidas,881.1. 16. 884. 1.21. 882. 1. 18.

Lou siana,478. art. 28, 24. 484. art. 43. 486. art. 57.
Joun.890. 8Dyer,855.(a.) 10 Johns.Rep. is.
I# Vattel, Drait des Gens. I. i. ch. 20; s. 244.268'.

Civ. Code of
5 Halls Lato

OF THE UNITED STATES.

W

1827.
for the plaintiff in ejectment, the judgment on which has
been brought before this Court. The case must depend on
the correctness of the opinions given by the District Judge; Henderson
but as those opinions bring the title of the defendant In Poindexter's
ejectirnent before this Court, the case will be best under- Lesseet
stood by taking a general view of the principles on which
that title stands.
The defendant gave in evidence a grant from the govera.
ment of Spain for 1,000 acres of land, bearing date on the
20th of June, 1795, with a plat, and certificate of survey
annexed ; under which grant he claimed so much of the
land in controversy as it covered. He also .offered in evidence a duly certified copy of a certificate 'of survey-and
patent issued thereon to David Pannell, for 500 acres, the
residue of the premises in controversy; the certificate by
the Spanish Surveyor General Carlos Trudeau, dated the
25th of March, 1795, and the patent issued December 7th,
1797, by Manuel Gayoso, the Spanish Governor of West
Florida, with a deed of release and confirmation from David Pannell to him, dated January 19th, 1820. Tt was admitted, that the originals of the plat, and certificate of survey, and of the patent thereon, of which copies were offered, were not in his possession, nor under his control. These
papers were rejected, and a bill of exceptions was taken to
the opinion rejecting them.
The defendant also read the deposition of Tessias, to
prove the fairness of the grants under which he claimed,
and that they were regularly issued by the proper officers of
tho Spanish government at the time they bear date respectively. To rebut this testimony, the plaintiff in ejectment
produced a letter of instructions found among the papers
of William Atcheson, deceased, the deputy surveyor, by
whom the lands in controversy were surveyed. This lettev
was directed to William Atcheson, aiid was proved to be in
the hand-writing of William Dunbar, who is also dead, ana
who was proved to be the principal surveyor of the Dis.
trict of Natchez, under whom Atcheson acted. The sig.
nature appears to l4ave been torn off. This paper tendeel
to show, that the surveys and grant were not made at the
fime they bear date, butafterwards. The defendant objlectik

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
to its admission, but his objection was overruled, and to thi6
also, he took an exception.
The defendant prayed the Court to instruct the jury,
Henderson
V.
1st. If they should find that, at the time of the sale by
Poindexer's
Lessee. the United States of the premises in question, the defendant was in full possession thereof under an adverse title, or
colour of title, such sale was void, and passed no title on
which the plaintiff could recover.
2d. If they should find, that the defendant, and those under whom he claimed, had the uninterrupted and quiet adverse possession of the premises, claiming under a Spanish
title legally and fully executed prior to October 27th, 1795,
under which the pos.session was originally taken, that the
plantif cannot reco, ar.
3d. If the jury should find, that on the 20th of June,
1795, a patent emanated from the Spanish government to
Joseph Pannell, under whom the defendant claimed, then
such patent constituted a good title in the grantee, and those
claiming under him, although the grantee was not, on the
-!7th of October, 1795, an actual resident of the territory
ceded by Georgia to the United States.
4th. If the jury should believe that Joseph Pannell, under
whom thedefeudantclaimed, on or before the2 7th of October,
1795, was a resident of the said territory, and that he claimed
the premises in controversy by virtue of a Spanish patent
legally and fully executed prior to that day, the defendant
is entitled to a verdict.
5th. That the paper purporting to be a copy of the articles of agreement between Joseph Pannell and Francis
Poussett, dated September 20th, 1796, was competent testi.
mony to prove any fact in controversy between the parties
in this suit.
6th. If the jury should be of opinion, that the date attached to the paper purporting to be the instructions from
William Dunbar to William Atcheson, is an interpolation
or forgery, in sdch case they shall disregard it altogether.
7th. In this action of ejectment, after a long and continued possession of thirty years on the part of the defendant, and those under whom he claims, under title, or colour
of-title. the jury are authorized to presume that it had a legal
1827.

Sopinion

OF THE UNITED STATE!.

5311

1827.
urigin, and was legally continued in the defendant, and those
proof
satisfactory
of
under whom he claims, in the absence
Henderson
to the contrary.
y
V.
8th. If the jury should believe, that the survey made by Pomdexter's
William Atcheson in Septeniber, 1795, was made at the Lessee.
time it purports to bear date, that then, and in such case, it
will constitute an instrument of a higher and superior nature to the instrument purporting to be private instructions
from said Dunbar to said Atcheson, for the purpose of proving the residence of the said Panncll at that time.
9th. That if, on the whole matter, he jury should have a
reasonable doubt, then their verdict should be for the defendant.
The Court granted the 4th, 6th, 7th, and 9th prayers, but
refused the 1st, 2d, 3d, 5th, and 8th, to which refusal the
counsel for the defendant excepted.
In argument, two general questions have been made.
1st. Is the title set up by the plaintiff in error under the
Spanish government, sufficient in itseif to protect his possession 9
2d. Has it been recognised and confirmed by the United
States9
1. The first point has been argued very elaborately, and
with deep research. The Court will not enter into the reasoning of the parties, but will state the result of an attentive
consideration of that reasoning.
It is undoubtedly true, that the exact boundary line between the southern British Colonies and Florida, was never
adjusted while that province remained in possession of Spain.
Each crown claimed territory which had been granted by
the other, and was settled by its subjects. Florida was at
length ceded to Great Britain after which, the 31st degre,
of north latitude was, by the proclamation of 1763, established as the dividing line between that province and
Georgia. The crown, however, was in the habit of changing
the limits of the colonies, and, though we complained of
the manner in which this branch of the prerogative was exercised, we did not resist it. In consequence of a recommendation of the board of trade, the limits of Florida were
supposed to be extended. as appears by the commissions tr-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
18127.
\i..
Henderson
V.
Poindexter's
Lessee.

its governor, so as to -comprehend the land in controversy.
This was the state of things when the war of our revolution
commenced. In its progress Spain took part in it, and rqconquered Florida. At the treaty by which that war was
terminated, Great Britain acknowledged the United States
to be free, sovereign and independent, and treated with
them a,,such. Their boundaries were particularly described.
so as to comprehend the land in controversy. Thepreliminary articles of peace between the United States and Great
Brita'in were signed at Pans, on the 30th of November,
1782 But these articles were provisional, and were not to
take effect until terms of peace should be agreed upon between Great Britain and France. On the 20th of January,
1783, preliminary articles of peace were signed between
Great Britain and Frnnce, and between Great Britain and
Spain. In the treaty w-iii Spain, the Floridas were ceded to
that power without any description of boundary.
The United States continued to assert a claim to the 31st
degree of north latitude, while Spain maintained perseveringly her pretensions to extend farther north. This was
the subject of long and fruitless discussion between the two
governments, which was terminated by the treaty signed at
San Lorenzo el Real on the 27th day of October, 1795. By
this treaty, "the high contracting parties declare and agree,
that the southern boundary of the United States, which divides their territory from the Spanish colonies of East and
West Florida, shall be designated by a line beginning on the
river Mississippi, af the northernmost part of the 31st de.
gree oFV latitude north of the equator, which from thence
shall-'be drawn due east to the middle of the river Apalachi.
cola, or Catahouchee, thence, 1&c.Tiis treaty declares and
agrees that the line which was described in the treaty of
peace between Great Britain and the United States as their
southern boundary, shall be the line which divides their territory from East and West Florida.
The article does not import to be a cession of territory,
but the adjustment of a controversy between the two nations. It is understood as an admission that the right was
originally in the United States. Nor is there any thing extraordinary in this admission. The negotiations were all

OF THE UNITED STATES.

535

depending at the same time and the same place. That be- 1827.
tween the United States and Great Britain was first completcd and signed, it must have been communicated to Hendeso
France, and, of course, was known to Spain; in it the Poindexter's
southern boundary of the Ufiited States was accurately de- Lessee.
fined. The subsequent cession of the Floridas to Spain
contained no description of boundaries. Great Britain
could not, without a breach of faith, cede to Spain what she
had acknowledged to be the territory of the United States.
No general words ought to be so construed. We think that
Spain ought to have understood the cession, and must have
understood it, as being made only to the extent that Britain
might rightfully make. This opinion ISconfirmed by a subsequent part of the same article, which respects the troops,
&c. of either party in the territory of the other. It is in
these words: '"And it is agreed that, if there should be any
troops, garrisons, or settlements of either party in the territory of the other, according to the abovementioned boundaries they shall be withdrawn from the said territory.within the term of six months after the ratification of this treaty,
or sooner, if it be possible, and that they shall be permitted
to take with them all the goods and effects which they pos.sess.11
It has been very truly urged by the counsel for the defendant in error, that it is the usage of all the civilized nations
of the world, when territory is ceded, to stipulate for the property of its inhabitants. An article to secure this object, so
deservedly held sacred in the view of policy, as well as of
justice and humanity, is always required , and is never refused. Had Spain considered herself as ceding territory, she
could not have neglecteda stipulation which every sentiment
ofjustice and ofhational onour would have demanded, and
which the United States could not have refused. But instead of requiring an article to this effect, she has expressly
stipplated for the withdrawal of the settlements made within
what the treaty admits to be the territory of the UnitedStates,
and for permission to the settlers to bring their property with
them. We think this an unequivocal acknowledgment, that
the occupation of that territory by Spain was wrongful i and
'we tbink the opinion thus clearly indicated was supported

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
bythe state of facts. It follows, that Spanish grants, made
1827.
after the treaty of peace, can have no intrinsic validity, and
,Henderson the holders must depend for their titles on the laws of the
V.

Poindexter's United States. We proceed, then, to inquire into the rights
Lessee. of the plaintiff in error under those laws.
The first act to which our attention has been directed, ib
that by which Georgia ceded her western territory to the
United States. That act provides, "That all persons who,
on the 27th day of October, 1795, were actual settlers within the territory thus ceded, shall be confirmed in all the
grants legally and fully executed prior to that day by the
former British government of West Florida. or by the government of Spain."
On the 3d of March, 1803. (vol. 3. s. 546.) Congress passed
"an act regulating the grants of land, and provided for tie
disposal of the lands of the United States south of the State
of Tennessee."
The first section enacts, that any person or persons "who
were resident in the Mississippi territory on the 27th day of
October, 1795, and who had, prior to that day. obtained, either
from the British government of West Florida, or from the
Spanish government, any warrant or order of survey for
lands lying .withm the said territory, to which the Indian title had been extinguished. and which were, on that day, actually inhabited and cultivated by such person or persons,
or for his or their use. shall be confirmed in their claims to
such lands, in the same manner as if their titles had been
completed."
This section places those persons, who had obtained a
warrant or order of survey on the 27th of October, 1795, on
equal ground with those whose titles were completed, provided the Indian title was extinguished, and provided also,
the land claimed was actually inhabited and cultivated either by the person claiming title, or by some other for hi
use.
The second section provides for those who did, on that
day of the year 1797, when the Mississippi territory was finally evacuated by the Spanish troops, actually inhabit and
cultivate a tract of land in that country: and the third sec-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

6S7

1827.
tion gives a pre-emption to those who did actually inhabit
and cultivate a tract of land at the time of passing the act.
Henderson
estabe
shall
offices
land
two
that
V.
enacts.
The 4th section
blished for the disposal of the lands of the United States in Poindexter's
the Mississippi territory, one in the county of Adams, and the Lessee.
other in the county of Washington , and the fifth directs,
"that every person claiming lands by virtue of any British
grant, or of the three first sections of the act, or of the articles
of agreement and cession between the United States and the
State of Georgia, shall, before the last day of March in the
year 1804, deliver to the register of the land office within
whose district the land may be, a notice in writing, stating
the nature and extent of his claims, together with a plat of
the tract or tracts claimed, and shall also, on or before that
day, deliver to the said register, for the purpose of being recorded, every grant, order of survey, and conveyance or
other written evidence ofhis claim, and the same shall be recorded," &c. ; "and if such person shall neglect," &c. "all
his right, so far as the same is derived from the abovementoned articles of agreement, or from the three first sections
of this act, shall become void, and for ever thereafter be
barred."
The sixth section directs the appoinmunent of two boards
of commissioners, for the purpose of ascertaining the right of
persons claiming the benefit of the articlcs of agreement and
cession between the United States and the State of Georgia,
or of the-three first sections of the act. One of these boards
was to take cognizance 6f claims to lands lying west of Pearl
river, and the other of claims to lands lying east of that river.
Each board was empowered to hear, and determine, and decide, in a summary manner, all matters respecting such
claims within their respective districts; and their determi.
nation so far as relates to any rights derived from the articles of agreement with Georgia, and from the three first sections of the act, was declared to be final. The act proceed=
to direct that each board may appoint a clerk, "whose duty
it shall be, to enter in a book, to be kept for that purpose.
perfect and correct minutes of the proceedings, decisions.
meetings and adjournment- of the boards. together with the
69
Vol. X1I.

CASES IN THE SUPREMI

538

COURT

evidence on which such decisions are made, which books
papers, on.the dissolution of the boards, shall be transHenderson mitted to, and lodged in the office of the Secretary of
V.
Poindexter's State. The commissioners are directed to grant certificates
Lessee. to all persons in whose favour decisions shall be made, which
certificates are to be recorded by the register of the land office, and amount, in all cases where grants have been made,
to a complete relinquishment on the part of the United
States; and, where grants have not been made, entitle the
party to receive one from the United States.
A supplemental act was pass3d in March, 1804, which
prolonged the time until the last day of November in that
year for giving the notice prescribed by the 5th section of
the original act, to the register of the land office, of claims to
lands lying west of Pearl river, for the purpose of being recorded. This act provides, that in cases of a complete British or Spanish grant, it shall not be necessary for the claimant to have any other evidence of his claim recorded except thdoriginal grant or patent, together with the warrant
or order of survey, and the plot. The 3d section enacts.
1that when any Spanish grant, warrant, or order of survey,
shall be produced to either of the said boards, for lands
which were not, at the date of the instrument, or within one
year thereafter, inhabited, cultivated, or occupied, by or for
the use of the grantee, or whenever either of the said boards
shall not be satisfied that such grant, warrant, or order of
survey, did issue at the time when the same bears date, the
said commissioners shall not be bound to consider suchgrant,
warrant, or order of survey, as conclusive evidence of the
-title, but may require such other proof of its validity as they
may deem proper, and the said boards shall make a full report to the Secretary of the Treasury, to be by him laid before Congress for their final decision, of all claims grounded
on such grants, &c. as may have been disallowed by the said
boards, on suspicion of their being antedated or otherwise
fraudulent."
It is contended by the plaintiff in error, that these severa'
acts confirm the titles of all those who held lands under the
Spanish government, by virtue of grants or orders of survey which were made-witfhgocd fbith prior to the 27th dav n
1827.

Sand

OF THE UNITED STATEL.

October, in the year 1795. The defendant in error main- 1827.
tains, that they confirm the titles of those only who were acV.
tual settlers of the Mississippi territory anterior to that day. Henderson
It is admitted, that the State of Georgia, in its act of ces- Poindexter's
sion, has stipulated for those only who were actual settlers Lessee.
on the 27th of October, 1795, and who held grants legally
and fully executed at that time.
The first section of the act of 1803; comprises incomplete titles only, and does not extend to those which were
comprehended in the act of cession. It is, interms, limited
to actual settlers; and no person who was not an actual
settler can claim under that act. The silence observed by
Congress respecting grants fully executed, countenances the
opinion, that the articles of agreement between the United
States and Georgia were supposed to be in themselves a
confirmation of the titles of those who were within the
words of the instrument. But as the legislature was making
provision for the sale of the vacant lands within the ceded
territory, it was deemed necessary to ascertain the particular lands which were appropriated. The 5th section of the
act, therefore, requires, that every person having such
claims shall, before the last day of March, in the year 1804,
deliver a notice in writing, specifying the extent of his claims.
to the register of the land office, together with his title papers, that they may be recorded. On failure, his title, so
far as it is derived from the three first se&ions of the act, or
from the articles of agreement with Georgia, shall become
void; nor shall such title paper "be considered or admitted
as evidence in any Court of the United States, against an
grant derived from the United States."
So far as titles were derived from the act itself, no person
could complain of this restriction. It was, however, a very
rigorous law as respected those -who were protected by the
articles of agreement of Georgia.
This act certainly contains no confirmation of Spanish
titles, except of those which were held by persons who were
actual settlers at the time prescribed in the law itself. It
provides forthe sale of 'all the unappropriated lands, and
establishes a tribunal with power to decide on all titles.
The language of the act of the 27th of TMarch. 1804 is

540

CASES IN TIIE SUPREME COUIL'P

S827.

iess explicit.

It declares, " that persons claiming land m

~ the Mississippi territory, by virtue of any British or Spanish

Henderson grant, or by virtue of the three first sections of the act to
V.

Poindexter's which~tho is a supplement, or of the articles of agreement
Lessee. and cession with the State of Georgia, may, after the last
day of March, in the year' 1804, and until the last day of
November then next following, give notice in writing of
their claims to the register of the land office, for the lands
lying westof Pearl river,'and have the same recorded, in lhe
manner prescribed by the 5th section of the act to wiluch
this is a supplement."
The defendant in error contends, that, although the descriptive words of the act apply generally to persons claiming lands under British or Spanish grants, they ought to be
confined to the actual settlers of the country. This construction rests chiefly on the argument, that the act of 1804
is a mere supplement to the act of 1803, that the two laws
ought to be construed together; that theirgreat object is to
quiet possession, and that the main purpose is to give a longer time for recording claims to lands lying west of Pearl
river.
There is, we think, great difficulty in maintaining this
construction. It has been observed, and the observation
has great weight, that all British and Spanish grants held, by
persons who were actual inhabitants of the country, on the
27th of October, 1795, were protected by the articles of
agreement with the State of Georgia. Yet these persons
areenumerated in the act as constituting a distinct class of
claimants not provided for in that compact. The inference
is very strong, that Congress must have supposed therewas
such a class. The concluding words of the section indicate the same idea. They are, "and the powers vested
by law ii the commissioners appointed for the purpose of
ascertaining the claims to lands lying west of Pearl river.
shall, in every respect, extend and apply to claims which
may be made by xirtue of this section, and the same proceedings shall thereupon be had as are prescribed by the
oct aforesaid, in relation to claims wich shall have been
exhibited on or before the last day of March, in the year
1204."

OF THE UNITED STA'IES.
This language, we think, adapted to new claims, as well 1827.
asto a prolongation of the time in which claims may be re- 'v'
corded, as the preparatory step to laying them. before the Henderson
commissioners. It is observable, too, that the 5th section Poindexter's
of the act of 1803 mentions British, but not Spanish grants. Lessee.
They are comprehended in that class of claims which were
confirmed by the articles of agreement with Georgia. The
act of 1803 contemplates nO Spanish grant that was not
protected by those articles. The act of 1804, however,
introduces Spanish with British grants, and places them together, as forming a class of cases not provided for in the
k:ompact with Georgia. We cannot suppose, that the legislature would have changed its language, and have introduced
the words Spanish grants, with directions that they should
be recorded, and laid before the commissioners, if nothing
existed to.which the words would be applicable.
The language of the third section also indicates an opinion, that persons, not inhabitants of the country on the
27th of March, 179.5, might be entitled to land under a Spairsh grant, warrant, or order of survey. It provides for
the case of a claim to land which was not, at the date of
such grant,' &c. or within one year thereafter, inhabited.
cultivated, or occupied by or for the use of the grantee.
Now, land might be inhabited, cultivated, or occupied, for
the use of a grantee who was not himself an inhabitant of
the country, or might be occupied by himself within one
3 ear after the date ofthe grant, though not so occupied on the
27th of October, 1795. The act goes on to provide, that,
in such case, or whenever the commissioners shall not be
satisfied that the grant, &c. issued at the time it bears date.
such grant, &c. shall not e conclusive evidence of the title.
This language might certainly justify the implication that
Congress supposed the commissioners might establish titles
in favour of non-residents.
The decision of the commissioners against them is not to
be final. They are to be reported to the Secretary of-the
Treasury,.to be by him laid before Congress for the final decision of that body.
On the 28th of February, 1809, Congress appears to have
acted on this report. An act was then passed. directing the

542

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

lands, the claims to which had been disallowed by the com1827.
'missioners,
to be sold in the same manner as other public
Henderson lands. The same act reserves the right of the Spanish
V.
Pomdexter's claimant to institute his suit in the highest Court of law or
Lessee.
equity. in the said territory, for the recovery of the land,
within one year after it shall have been sold by the United
States. If he shall fail to sue within the time limited, his
right to sue shall be for ever barred. The second section
makes the decision of such cause to depend entirely on the
claimant's proving that the survey was made before the
27th of October. 1795, and on the fairness of the transaction ; and the third sbction declares parol evidence to be
admissible.
This act relates solely to those claims which were laid before the commissioners, and disallowed.
The patent under which the plaintiff in error claims the
tract of 1,000 acres, appears to have the following endorseinents on it.
" Entered on record at Natchez, in the county of Adams.
Mississippi territory, in lib. B. fol. 149 a 150, this second
day of April, A.D. 1801.
"JOHN HENDERSON, Recorder."
" Land Ofice west of Pearlrzver.
- This plat, certificate, and letters patent, are recorded iii
the Register's book B, of written evidences of claims, fol.
621. &c.
"Examined and corrected by
"J. GIRAULT, Translator."
The plat, and certificate of survey, and patent for 500
acres, appear to have been registered in the land office west
of Pearl river, on the 26th of March, 1804.
The patent for this last survey gives no additional title,
because it was granted after the authority of Spain over the
country had ceased. It does not appear that either of these
title papers was laid before the board of commissioners.
There is certainly some difficulty in construing these acts
of Congress: It is not easy to resist the conviction, that
the government has legislated on the idea, that Spanish
titles might be valid, though held by persons who were not

OF rHE UNITED STATEb.

54;3.

1827.
residents of the country on the 27th of October, 1795.
Yet no law has, in express terms, imparted this validity to
them. The act of 1804 allows them to be recorded, and Henderson
V.
to be laid before the com.missioners, to be decided on by Poindexte's
them. It goes farther, and seems to point the attention of Lessee.
the commissioners to the fairness of the claim, rather than
to the residence of the claimant. The certificate of the
board in favour of the claimant is conclusive against the
United States. Their determination against him is to be
reported to the Secretary of the Treasury, in order to be
laid before Congress, and this determination is to be founded on the opinion, that the document of title is antedated,
or otherwise fraudulent. When Congress acts on this report, no absolute decision is made against the rejected
claims, but the claimant is allowed time to assert his title in
a Court of law or equity. These provisions are scarcely
to be reconciled with the idea, that no Spanish grant could
be valid if made to a non-resident of the territory. It
would seem as if the commissioners might have taken cognizance of such a claim, might have decided in its favour,
and that such a decision would have been conclusive.
But, we repeat, that there is no act of Congress expressly confirming such titles, and that they derive no validity
from any other source.
The whole legislation on this subject requires, that every
title to lands in the country which had been occupied by
Spain, should be laid before the board of commissioners.
The motives for this regulation are obvious, and as the
titles had no intrinsic validity, it was opposed by no principie. Claimants could not complain, if the law which gave
validity to their claims, should also provide a board to examine their fairness, and should make the validity depend
ontheir being laid before that board. The plaintiffin error
has failed to bring his case before the tribunal which the legislature had provided for its examination, and has, therefore.
not brought himself within the law Nlo act of Congress
applies to a grant held by a non-resident of the territory in
Octol'.,r, 1795, which has not been laid before the board of
commissioners. It is true, that no act has declared such
;rants void but the lezislture, has ordered th,- lands to br.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COuW'r

544
1827.
-,

sold which were not appropriated in a manier recognsed
by law, and the land in controversy is of that descrip-

Henderson tion.
V.

Poindexter's Ifthisview of the subject be correct, no Spanish grant, made
Lessee. while the country was wrongfully occupied by Spain, can be
valid, unless it was confirmed by the contract with Georgia.
or has been laid before the board of commissioners.
This opinion is decisive of every point on which the Court
gave an opinion, so far as respects title.
'The first bill of exceptions, taken by the plaintiff in error.
is to tile rejection of a duly certified copy of a certificate
of survey, and a patent issued th6reon by the Spanish governor of West Florida in December, 1797.
The patent was properly rejected, because Spain no longer occupied the territory, and the authority which had been
exercised, in fact, by the Spanish government, had ceased.
The order and certificate of survey were properly rejected.
because they were not confirmed by the three first sections
of the act of 1803, and had never been laid before the board
of commissioners.
The papgr dated the 19th of October, 1796. purporting
to be private instructions from William Dunbar, the prmctpal surveyor of the district of Natchez, to William Atchison,
the deputy, who made the surveys for the land in controversy, was admitted to rebut the testimony of a witness
whose deposition had been taken to prove that the Spanish
title papers were fair and were correctly dated. This paper
was admitted, because it related to the official duties of the
deputy, was found among his papers after his death, and was
proved to be in the hand-writing of his principal, who waalso dead. Doubts are entertained by some of the Judges
respecting the propriety of its admission. But this is a question which we think it unnecessary t6 decide, because- the
grant, not having been laid before the board of commissioiers, could not have availed the defendant in the Court below, who did not bring himself within the reservation or the
cession from GeorgiL
Trhe plaintiffin error, after the testimony had been lan
i3efore the jury, prayed the Court to instruct them on sevc
t'al points of law which grew out of it. The first of these.

OYk

THE UNITED 6TATLE;-,

545

,,Ymcli
was refused, questioned the validity of a grant made
1827.
*ft.
oy the United States for land occupied at the time under .V.
colour of all adverse title. There can be no doubt of the Ilenderson
Poindexter's
correctness of rejecting this proposition.
The 2d, 3d and 5th points, which the Court was prayed Lessee.
to state as law to the jury, depend on the position that residence in'the country on the 27th of October, 1795, was not
necessary to the validity of the title set up by the defendant
in that Court. As the title had not been laid before the
board of commissioners, and as residence was indispeniable
to the validity of a claim, supported by the act of cession
from Georgia, we think these instructions were properly
refused.
The 8th was tmimportant to the case in the view which this
Court has taken of it. If the question, whether the survey,
purporting to bear date in September, 1795, was really made
on that day, or was antedated, had been the question to be
decided by the jury, as it would have been had this paper
been laid before the board of commissioners, the Court dirt
right in refusing to grant this prayer. It setrms to request
the Court. to say, that, in deciding on the verity of a paper
alleged to be fraudulent, the paper itself is enititled to more
credit than the parol testimony which impeaches it, though
the law declares parol testimony to be admissible.
On the other points, the Court gave the instruction asked
by the plaintiff in error.
We think the plaintiffin error has neither brought himself
within the articles of agreement between the Uinited States
and the State of Georgia, nor within the acts of Congress.
and that the judgment of the District Court must be afliried. with costs.

'or.. XI1.

