OF THE UNITED STATES.
1827.
[JUDGMENT LIEN.

RANKtIN &

Rankin
&
Schatzell

LoCAL LAW.]

Plaintiffs in Error, against
Defendant in Error.

SCOATZELL,

SCOTT,

The lien of a judgment on the lands of the debtor, created by statute, and limited to a certain period of time, is unaffected by the
circumstance of the plaintiff not proceeding upon it, (during that
period,) until a subsequent lien has been obtained and earned into
execution.
Universal principle that a prior lien is entitled to prior satisfaction
out of th6 thing it binds, unless the lien be intrinsically defective,
or is displaced by some act of the party holding it, which shall
postpone him at law or m equity.
Mere delay in proceeding to execution is not such an act.
Distinction created by statute, as to executions against personal chattels, and reasons on which it is founded.
ERROR to the District Court of Missouri.

This was an action of ejectment, brought in the Court
below by the defendant in error, Scott, to recover the possession of a house and lot in the town of St. Louis.

V.

Scott.

At

the trial, a special verdict was found, stating, that in the year
1816, John Little married Marie Antoinette Labadie, who
was their seised in fee of the house and lot in question. She
died without issue, leaving the husband seised in fee of a
moiety of the premises. He soon afterwards died without
issue, and intestate. In April, 1821,judgment was rendered
m the Circuit Court of the county where the premises lay,
against the administrator of Little, in favour of Schatzell
and another, for 2,747 dollars aid 19 cents. In March following, another judgment was rendered against the same, in
favour of B. Pratte, for 1,241 dollars. Execution was immediately issued upon the latter judgment, and the prerpises
in question sold*under it to Scott, the plaintiff in ejectment,
and soon afterwards, another execution issued upon the
first judgment, and the same premises were sold to Schatzell,
one of the defendants below, and conveyed to him by the
sheriff' deed. Rankin, who was tenant to Little in his liferime, remained in possession of the premises after his death.
Vor.. XIT."
i3

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.
Rankn

and attorned to Scbatzell.

The question raised upon these

Sfacts was, whether the sale by the Sheriff, under the second

judgment and first execution, devested the lien of the first

Schatzell judgment 9 The Court below determined it in the affirmative, and the cause was brought, by writ of error, before this
V.
Scott. Court.
Ian. 15th.

Mr. Benton, for the plaintiffis in error, relied upon the express provisions of the statute of Missouri, to show that the
local law made the first judgment a lien upon the land for
the term of five years, within which time it was enforced.
and Shatzell purchased under it.a For the general effect
of a judgment lien, he cited the authorities in the margin."
MIr. Talbot, contra.,

Tan. P2Sd.

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court, and after stating the case, proceeded as follows :
The act of the then territorial government of Missouri,
on which this question depends, is in these words: "Judgments obtained in the General Court shall be a lien on the
lands and tenements of the person or persons against whom
the same has been entered, situate in any part of this territory; andjudgments obtained in a Court of Common Pleas
of any district, shall be a lien on the lands and tenements of
the person against whom the same has been entered, situate
in such district." The act contains a proviso, "that no
judgment hereafter entered in any Court of record within
this territory, shall continue a lien on the lands and tenements against whom the same has been entered, during a
longer term thah five years from the first return day of the
term of which such judgment may be entered, unless the
game shall have been revived by sctrefaczas," &c.
a Geyer's Dig. LL. Missouri, 964. 267.
b 1 Johns. Cas. 24.

486. 4 Dall. 450.
c I Term Rep. 729.

Rep.

171.

13 Johns. Rep. 468. 538.

1 Lord Raym. 251.

Cro. .Eliz. 181.

1 Salk. 520.

1 Dalr. 481.

1 Burr. 20.

8 Co

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Since the territory of Missouri was erected into a State, 1827.
the General Court has received the appellation of the Su- \a-v%
the Rankin
perior Court, and the Court of Common Pleas for
district has been denominated the Circuit ,Court for the $chiatzell
V;
was issued
county. The execution on the first judgmentwhile
lien Scott.
the
aid
rendered,
was
it
after
within a short time
it created was in full force, unless it was removed by the
execution and sale under the second judgment.
There is no expression in the law of Missouri which can
suggest a doubt on this subject By that law, judgments are
to be a lien on all the lands of the debtor. This lien commences with the judgment, and continues for five years. The
principle is believed to be universal, that a prior lien gives a
prior claim, which is entitled to prior satisfaction, out of the
subject it binds, unless the lien be intrinsically defective, or
be- displaced by some act of the party holding it, which
shall postpone him in a Court of law or equity to a subsequent claimant. The single circumstance of not proceeding on it until a subsequent lien has been obtained and carried into execution, has never been considered as such an
act. Take the common case of mortgages. It has never
been supposed that a subsequent mortgage could, by obtaining and executing a decree for the sale of the mortgaged
property, obtain precedence over a prior mortgage in which
all the requisites of the law had been observed. If such a
decree should be made without preserving the rights of the
prior mo-tgagee, the property would remain subject to those
rights in the hands of the purchaser. So, in cases of judgment, where an degit may be sued out against the lands of
the debtor. The implied lien created by the first judgment.
retains the preference over the lien created by a second
judgment, so long as an elegit can issue on the first A statutory lien is as binding as a mortgage, and has the same capacity to hold the land so long as the statute preserves it in
force.
The cases cited of executions against personal property,
1o not, we think, apply. In those cases, the lien is not ere
ated by the judgment, or by any matter of record. The
purchaser of the goods cannot suppose that the officer lias
committcd any impropriety in the perforrmaue of his du(y

UASES IN THE SUPREME CoUrIR

and this circumstance has induced Parliament to sepurehiu.
SIt is stated by Ashhurst, Justice, in 1 Term Rep. 731. that
U. States this was the sole object of that part of the statute oi fraud,
1827.
V.

Tiliotson. which relates to this subject. In the case at bar, the judgment is notice to the purchaser of the prior lien, and there
is no act of the legislature to protect the purchaser from that
lien.
We think, then, that the deed made by the Sheriff to the
purchaser, under the firstjudgment, conveyed the legal title
to the premises, and that the judgment on the special verdict
ought to have been in favour of the plaintiff.
Judgment reversed.

[PRACTICE.
THrE UNITED STATEs againstTILLOTSON and another.
Where the burthen of proof of certain specific defences set up by the
defendant is an lm, and the evidence presents contested facts, an
absolute direction from the Court, that the matters produced and
read in evidence on the part of the defendant were sufficient in
law to maintain the issue on his part, and that the jury ought to
render their verdict in favour of the defendant, is erroneous; and

a judgment rendered upon a verdict purporting to have been given
under such a charge will be reversed, although the record was
made up as upon a bill of exceptions taken at a trial before thejury
upon the matters in issue, no such trial ever having taken place,
and the case having assumed that shape by the agreement of the
parties, in order to take the opinion of ihe Court upon certain
questions of law.
Feb. 24th.

Mar lid.

THIS cause was argite4 by the Attorney General and Mr.
(Coxe for the plaintiffs, and by Mr. Webster and Mr. Wheaton
for the defendants.

Mr. Justice STorY delivered the opinion of the Court.

This cause comes before us from the Circuit Court for the
Soitihern Distict of New-York: as upon a bill of exception.

