129

OF THE UNITED STATES.

We are of opinion, that this record does not exhibit a
case of which this Court can take jurisdiction, and that the
Montgomery
writ of- error ougfit, therefore, to be dismissed.
V.

flernandE.
JUDGMENT.

This cause came on, &c. On consideration

whereof this Court is of opinion, that there is no error apparent on the face of the record, of which this Court can

take jurisdiction. It is, therefore,

CONSIDERED

by this

Court, that the writ of error be dismissed, and that -the
cause be remanded to the .Supreme Court of Errors and

Appeals-of the State of Tennessee.

[CONTSTITUTioN Ar. LAw.

MONTGOMERY,

CONSTRUCTION OF STATUTE.]

Plaintiff in Error, againstHERWANDEZ and
Others, Defendants in Error.

Under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, ch. 20., his
Court has no appellate jurisdiction from the final judgment of the
hbighest Court of a St4te,'in a suit where is drawn in question the
construction of a statute of, or a comnissionjheld under the United
States, unless some title, right, privilege, or exemption, under such
statute, &c. be specially set up by the party, and the decision be
against the claim so made by hm.
Where a suit was brought in a State Court upon a marshal's bond,
under the act of April l0th, 1806, ch. 21., bya person injured by 4
breach of the condition of the bond, and the defendants set up as a de-fince to the action that the suit ought to have been brought in ihe
name of the United States, and the Court decided that it was
well brought by the party injured in his own name Held, thatthe
exemption here set up being merely as to the form of the action,
and no question arismg as to the legal liability 9 f the defendants
under the act of Congress, this Court bad no autjiority to re-eit.
amine the judgment, so far as respected the construction of that
part of the act, .which provides, that suits on marshals' bonds "shall
be commenced and prosecuted within six years after the said right
of action shall have accrued, and not afterwards."
Under the 4th section of the same act, although the condition of the
marshal's bond is broken by his neglecting to bring money int"

VOL. XII.

17

CAS;S IN TIU, SUPREME CUUWI
187.

Court, directed to be so hbrugnt in, or to pay it over to the party
if the proceedings be suspended by appeal, so that the party Injured has no right to demand the money, or to sue for the recovcrn
of it, his right of action has not accrued, so a. to bar it, if not
commenced within six years.

Syet,

Moutgomery
V.
11eriaiu'dez.

.F.'cb. V(th.

THIS cause was argued by Mr. D. B. Ogden for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Key 'for the defendants in error. "

Feb. 8th.

Mr. Justice TRiIMBLE delivered the opinion of the Court.

This case is brought up by writ of error from the highesr
Court of law of the State of Louisiana.
The case is, that the defendants in errorinstituted a suit.
in their own names, in the District Court of the State for
the first judicial district, upon the bond given by Michael
Reynolds to the United States, as marshal of the district of
Louisiana, conditioned to be void upon his "woll and faithfully executing the duties of his said office ;" and the plaintiff in error having executed the bond, as one of the marhals sureties, and the marshal having since died, the suit
was brought against the plaintiff in error, and the said Reynolds, personal representative.
The breach of the condition of the bond alleged, is, that
by the order of the District Court of the United States, for
the district of Louisiana, in a suit in Admiralty, wherein the
delfendants in error were libellants against the schooner Estrella and her cargo, the vessel and-cargo were directed, by
the Court, to be sold by the marshal, and the proceeds of
the sale held by the marsial, subject to the order of
the Court; that the marshal, in pursuance of that order.
rold the vessel and cargo, and received the money, that the
Court of Admiralty, by its final decree in the cause, directed the vessel and .cargo, or the proceeds thereof, to be
restored to the libellants, and that the marshal had failed
to pay over to the libellants, 3,126 dollars, part of the pro.
ceeds, as was hIS duty, undef the final order and decree
of the Court. The suit having been commenced and' prosecuted, by petition, according to the practice of the civil
a le cited Pothler des Obligations, -No. 045. De Precrtkrn.
NQ.Re, 28. O8Cranch, 91. 9z.

UP THE UNiIEl) SATA1'}
law which prevails in Louisiana, the respondent, Dlont6o- Iz 7.
niery, put in his answer, admitting the execution of the bond,
but insisting, that as the bond was executed to the United Montgomery
V.
States, and the defendants in error no parties to it, they had Herninde7.
no right or interest in the bond, and could not sue for a
breach of the condition thereof; and denying the breaches
alleged in the petition. By a supplemental answer, in the
nature of a plea of the act of limitations, Montgomery al
leged, if any breach had taken place, that more thar six
years had intervened since the cause of action, before the
institution of the suit.
The record states, that the jury sworn in the cause, after
hearing testimony, and receiving a charge from the Court,
returnei a verdict for the defendants in error, for the sum
of 3,126 dollars, for which sum judgment was rendered
upon the verdict in their favour. From this judgment
Montgomery appealed to the Supreme-Court of the State,
where the judgment of the District Court was affirmed,
and thisjudgment is sought to be reversed in this Court upon
the present writ of error.
On the trial of the cause in the District Court, Montgo.
mery objected to the admission, as testimony, to the jury,
certain documents, purporting to be accounts of the marshal's sales of the Estrella and cargo, and, his objections
being overruled, he excepted to the opinion of the Court,
admitting the papers offered, and his exception was sealed,
and made pait of the record.
The appellate jurisdiction of this Court, in cases decided
in the State Courts. is very special and limited in its charact-,r.By the e2th section of the judiciary act, made inpursuance of the constitution, it is provided, "That a final
iudgment or decree, ii any suit in the highest Court of law
or equity of a State, in which a decision in the suit could be
had, where is drawn in question the validity of a treaty or
statute of, or an authority exercersed under, the United
States, and the decision is against their- validity , or where
is drawn in question he validity of a statute of, or an authority exercised uncer, any State, on the ground of their
being repugnant to the constitution, treaties, or'laws of
the United States, and the decision is in favour of such.

iASES IN THE SUPREME COUR'I

1827. validity, or where is drawn in question the construction ot
any clause of the constitution, or of a- treaty, or statute of,
or commission held under, the United States, and the deMontgomery
V.
laernandem. cision is against the title. right, privilege, or exemption, spccially set up by either party, under such clause of the constitution, treaty, statute, or commission, may be re-examined, and reversed or affirmed, by the Suprei- Court of
the United States."
-xtent of the Under these provisions, we have no authority to re-exahppellate jurisdiction of mine the whole case. We can re-examine so much, and
this Court un- such p~rts "ofit only, as come within some one or other of
der the 15th
Section of the the classes of questions enumerated in the act of Congress,
and so much of the case as must necessarily be decided to
Judiciary Act
Vf 1780, ch. 20.
arrive at such question.
It has been insisted for the plaintiff in error, that the
question raised upon the record, whether Hermandez, not
being a party to the marshaPs bnnd given to the United
States, could maintain a suit upon it in his own name only,
Without suing in the'name of the United States, for his, use,
is a question which can be re-examined in this Court. We
are not of that opinion. It is not every misconstruction of
an act of Congress by a State Court, that will give this
Court appellate j.urisdiction. It is where the party claims
some title, right, privilege, or exemption, under an act of
Congress, and the decision is againstsuch right, title, pnwilegee or exemption.
In this case the plaintiff in error did not, and could not,
claim any right, title, privilege, or exemption, by, or under
the marshal's bond, or any act of Congress giving authority
to sue the obligors for a, breach, of the condition; or, at
nost, his claim to exemption rests upon form, and not substance, as the law expressly charges him, and the objection
is only that-the name of the United States should have been
inserted for the use of the plaintiff.
However we might'be inclined to the opinion that, regularly, and in point of form, 'the suit should have been in the
jname of the United States, for the use of Hermandez, we
have no jurisdiction or authority to re-examine, and either
reverse or affirm the decisioa of the State Court on that
ground.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

133

'The only part of the case over which we can rightfully 1827.
exercise appellate jurisdiction, is that raised by Oe supple.
mental answer, pleading the prescription orbar oi six years , Montgomery
V.
in whichi the party claims an exemption under the laws of Hernandez.
the United States, from habifity as surety of the marshal ;
the decision in the State Court being against the exemption
so specially set up by him.
The act of Congress passed in 1806, relating to bonds
given by marshals, enacts, " that all suits on marshals'
bonds, if the cause of action has already accrued, shall be
commenced and prosecuted within three years after the passage of this act, and not afterwards; and all such suits, in
case the right of action shall accrue bereafter;.shall be commenced and prosecuted within six years after the said right
of action shall have-accrued, and not afterwards," &c. (IngersoPs Dig. 402.)
It is obvious, that whether this act of Congress exempts
the plaintiff in and from responsibility or not, must depend upon the time when the right of action accrued t6
Hermandez & Co. for any injury sustained by reason of the
marshal's failure to perform his duty. It was the duty of
the marshal, under the order of the Court-of Admiralty, directing him to sell the Estrella and cargo, and hold the proceeds subject to the. future order of the Court, to bring the
money into Court as soon as received by him, inorder that it
might be deposited in the Branch Bank of the United States.
The order 9f the Court directing the marshal to hold the proiceeds until the further order of the Court, can only be construed 'tomean, that he should hold Them in the manner
prescribed by law. The law directs the money to be deposited in the name of, and to the credit of the Court; and
provides, that the money so deposited shall not be drawn
out of bank without the order of the Clourt. The ob"jectof the law, was to prevent the officers of the Court
from
holding money, in such cases, ihtheir own hands, and converting it to their own use. It was only a partial execution
of the precept of the Court to sell the vessel and cargo;
its mandate was not faithfully performed until the proceeds
were brought into Court by him, in order to be deposited
according to law, or until he paid'it over to Hermandez, as

134

CASEFS IN THE S1TPREAI' C:OUlJRi
directed by the final decree and order of
Court. The mar,
\ o--vrhal'l failure to bring in the money, or pay it over to HerInt onery iondek " Co. was a vvolafiou ,f his duty, and a breach of
1.827.

JHernandez. the condition of his bond.
The Supreme Cvrt of the State decided, that although
the breach of' the condition of the bond took place more
than six year; hefore the institution of this s uit, yet the
plaintiff's right of action did not accrue until within the six
year; , and tihat. conseqnently. the act of limitations constituted tio bar to the action This Court perfectly accord,:I opinion with the Supreme Court of the State.
If it be true, that the condition of the bond was broken
at the time the marshal failed to bring the money into Court
to be deposited in the bank, or pay it over to Hermandez &
Co. ; and if it be Irue that the breach of the condition of the
bond was to the injury of Hernandez & Co.; yet, it is not
true, that Hernandez & Co. had, at that time, any right o
action. The record of the proceedings in the Court of Admiralty shows that the Estrella and-cargo were sold, and the
proceeds received by the marshal; and that the suit was
day of
finally decided in the -District Court, on the
,1817; by whicn inal decree the proceeds
were ordered to be paid over to Ftermandez & Co.
An appeal was presented from that decree in this Court;
where it was affirmed at the February term in the year
1819, within less than. six years before the institution of this
suit.
It is perfectly clear that Hernandez & Co. had no right to
demand of the marshal the proceeds of the sales, or to sue
for the recovery thereof, until afterlthe adlrmance in this
Court. The right of action was suspended, during the pendency of the appeal m this Court; and during such suspen-ion, the statute of limitations did not run against him.
We are, therefore, of opinion, that the Supreme Court of
Louisiana have misconstrued neither the act of Congress
limitifig actions upon marshals' bonds to six years from the
time the right of action accrue:, nor any other act of Congress, to the prejudice of the pfaintiff in error.
Judgment affirmed, with costs and six per cent. da-.
mages.

