CASES IN'THE SUPREME COURT
18,27..
%," -%
74ason
V.

Matilda.

deuce, that the right toenter is identified with the right to
purchase at private sale, and confined to the appropriating of
such lands as may be legally appropriated by entry at the
register's office, from which are excluded all lands previo'usly appropriated, .,whether by public sale, or by being
withdrawn from the mass of lands offered for sale.
From the earliest date of the legislation of Congress on this
subject, there have been appropriations to the public use,
made by.withdrawing from this mass certain portions ofterritory for public seminaries, towns, salt springs, mines, and
other objects; and the particular land in controversy was
appropriated under, a previous-law, to wit, the act of April,
1-20, for the site of h town. We, therefore, hinl, that it
was not included"in'the right to appropriate -vested in the
complainants under the act on which they 'rely.
Before dismissing this subject, it may be-proper to remark,
"that the quaestibn considered is tdle only question that was
inade in argument. .The Court have also under consideration some. points arising on the form of the remedy, and the
state of the complamarit's right, on which subjects the
Court are to be considered as uncommitted by any inference
that may be drawn from their having disposed ofthe cause
upon the principal question.
Decree affirmed, with costs.

[LocAL LAW.]
MAsoN and Another,.Plaintiffs in Error, agatist MATILDA

and Oihers, Defendants in Error.
On the construcuon of the statute of Virginia, emancipating slaves
brought into that State in 179% unless the owner removing with

them should take a ceftii, oath within sixty days afiqer such removal, the fact of.the oath havipg been taken may be,,piesumed by
the lapse of twenty years,. aoconipanied with possesfion.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
This cause was argued by Mr. Sampson and Mr. Lear for
the plaintiffs in error, and by Mr. Jones andMr. Key. for the
defendants in error.

591
1827.
Mason

V.
Matilda.

"ir. Justice JohNsoN delivered the opinion of the Court. March 15tl,.
This cause comes up on a bill of exceptions from
the Court held for Washington county, District of Columbia, March i6t1.
in which Matilda, a negress, brought suit in behalf of herself and her three children; to receive their freedom.
The material facts in the cause are these: One James
Craik, through whom the plaintiffs in this Court make title,
some time in the year 1792 brought Matilda from the State
of Maryland into Fairfax county in Virginia, and there settled and resided until his death, in all about two and- twenty
years.
During this time, the three children of Matilda were born,
and the whole continued to be held by him in slavery during
his life, and at his death were bequeathed to his wife, who bequeathed them to the wives of Moer and Mason.
The whole time which elapsed from the bringing of Matilda into Virginia to the commencement of this suit, was
thirty years.
By the laws of Virginia, a slave brought into that State in
1792, became free after the lapse of one year; but,to the
act on this subject is subjoined a proviso, that it shall not
extend to "those who may be inclined to remove from any
of the United States, and become citizens of this State,.if
within sixty days after such removal, he or she shall take
the following oath before some justice of the peace of the
commonwealth," and then the oath is set out tn exiewo.
On the trial, the defendants below could not produce positive testimony that the oath had. been taken according to
law ; but after proving that the magistrates of the county
at the time of Matilda's removal, were all dead, and the continued possession of the family from that time to the institution of the suit, they contended that the cause should go to
the jury, under a charge that, from the circumstances so
given in evidence, the jury might presuire that the oath had
been taken in the prescribed time.

CASES -IN THE SUPREME eOUR
1827.
-

-

Mason
T4
Matilda.

This the Court refused, and charged the jury interms purporting the contrary doctrine, upon which the jury found a
verdict for the plaintiffs below.
In the argument, two questions have been examined:
Ist. Whether such a presumption might legally be raised
from length.of time and circumstances? 2. Whether it
could be raised, as against the children of Matilda, who, during the greatest part of the time, had been in a state of in.
lancy 9
It is a relief to us to find that there has been an express
adjudication on both these points. The case arises under a
Virginia statute, and, in the Court of Appeals in that State,
it appears that both questions arose in the case of dbraham
v. Matthews, (6 Mum. 159.) and were decided in favour of
the master of the slave. The'Court, in that 6ase, decides,
that the fact of having taken the oath required, and in the
time required, may be pr.esumed after a lapse of twenty
years, accompanied with possession. The language of the
Court is, "that it may be presumed so as tQ throw the onus
probandi on the opposite party;" and this has been-considered in argument as an absurdity. In its literal sense it is
an. absurdity, but in the sense of the Court it is far otherwise ;it can only mean that the presumption must be repelled by conflicting evidence, or the jury may legally found
their verdict-upon it.
The infancy of Abraham was also insisted upon in that
case as a circumstance to repel the presumption, but over.
ruled. And that case was a stronger one on the effect of
infancy .than the present, for here the rule "partus sequi.
l j must take effect. The three children of Matur venfran
tilda claim their freedom on the supposed emancipation of
their mother; but their mother did not, and could not, set un
the circumstance of infancy in herself.
It has been supposed that the case of Garnctt v. Sam anef
Phillis,(5 Mum. 54-2.) decided in the same Court the year before that of Abraham, conflicts with the latter, and leaves
the law unsettled.
If there was such conflict, it is obvious that the latter de.
cision is the supefior authority, yet we admit that such incongruity ifit existed, would sanction this Court in hesitating
onthe question whother the law waiettldd.

OF-THE UNITED STATES.

159$J

1827.
But there is no inconsistency between the, two cases, the
same principle is admitted in the first, and asserted in the
R .
last.
The instruction moved for in the case of Sam and Phillis. Matilda.
was, "that the master, in order to entitle himself to the benefit of the proviso, must show that he had taken the oath prescribed and required by law."
Now, although.upon the face of it this would seem to import positive proof, yet the Court take a different view of its
meaning; for they observe "that the right of freedom prima facte acquired,.could only be obviated by evidence adduced to show, or by czreumstances authorizinga presumption, that such an oath had been taken, and that the terms of
the instruction asked, in that case, were broad enough to
include the latter description of evidence as well as the former.17
This contains a distinct admission, that the master is not
restricted* to positive proof, and that a presumption of the
material fact, that of the oath, resulting from circumstances,
may be equivalent to positivo proof.
It has been argued that this presumption should be repelled by the ignorance, impotence, and continued state of duress in which the plaintiffs below must necessarily have
continued from their state of bondage. But this also must
have been duly considered by the learned judges of the Virginia bench, since the fact equally existed in the cases which
were before them.
Practicaliy, we know that they seldom want counsellors or
aid of any kind, and that the leaning of Courts and juries
is -very mucli in their favour. Where any" reasonable
grounds can be laid hold of to sustain a verdict in their behalf there is reason to believe that, on questions of right,
considerations of every kind in favour of freedom will always have, at least, thdir full weight. On the other hand,
the natural repuginance of man at remaining in that state is
a consideration of great weight in sustauiing the presumptiow
from lapse of time.
We think, therefore, that both the points made in argu.
ment have been decided. We are also satisfied that the de75
Vol. XI.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
cisions of the Court are in- perfect analogy with general
Sprinciples, in the application of prescription and presumpLidderdale tionsfrom lengthof time, and continued acquiescence of the
1827.
V.

Robinson. party whose rights are implicated.
We do not deem it necessary to corroborate the Virginia
decisions by comparing them with the authorities on this
subject, as we are to the habit of regarding with the highest
respect the decisions of the State Courts upon causes arising
under their own statutes. But any one desirous of pursuing the
inquiry, will find the law on this subject very well collected
and digested in -Mr. Starke's 3d vol. of his Treatise on Evzdence, and the 1225th page of Mr. .Metcalf'sedition.
Judgment revprsed, and ventrefacias de novo awarded

(LoCAL Liw.]

LxDD.&DALE'S

Executors against The Executor of Ho.
BINSON.

Under the statute of Virginia, giving to debts dtte on protested bill
of exchange, therank ofjudgment debts, a joint endorser, who has
paid more than his proportion of the debt, has a right to satisfaction out of the apsets of his co-endorser, with the priority of a judgment creditor.

Feb. 9tI.
I

THIS cause was argued by Mr. Powell, for the plaintiffs,
no counsel appearing for the defendants.

.Peb. 17th.

Mr. Justice JoHNsoN delivered the opinion of the Court.
The question to be decided in fis cause is certified to
this Court on a division of opinion from the judges of the
Virginia district.
a 8 Pes.'88z. 12 Ves. 418. 2 Vern. 608. 11 Ves. 22. a Call.
325. s Call. 029. 1 Randolph, 466. 3 W7'a. Rep. 520.

