SPRING VALLEY WATER VORKS v. SCHOTTLER. 847
Syllabus.

damaged to the extent of his actual loss and outlay fairly incurred.
The particular form of the petition in this case ought not to
preclude the claimant from not recovering what was fairly
shown by the evidence to be the damage sustained by him.
Though it is true that he does pray judgment for damages axising from loss of profits, yet he also prays judgment for the
amount of his outlay and expenses less the amount realized
from the sale of materials on hand. The claim for profits, if
not sustained by proof, ought not to preclude a recovery of the
claim for losses sustained by outlay and expenses. In a proceeding like the present, in which the claimant sets forth, by
way of petition, a plain statement of the facts without technical
formality, and prays relief either in a general manner, or in an
alternative or cumulative form, the court ought not to hold the
claimant to strict technical rules of pleading, but should give
to his statement a liberal interpretation, and afford him such
relief as he may show himself substantially entitled to if within
the fair scope of the claim as exhibited by the facts set forth in
the petition.
We think that the judgment of the Court of Claims was
right, and it

18 ajYrm.ed.
SPRING VALLEY WATER WORKS v. SCHOTTLER
& Others, Supervisors.
IN

ERROR TO THE SUPraMM COUR

OF CALIFORNIA.

Argued November 20th, 21st, 1883.-Decided February4th, 1884.

ConatitutionaLaw--Cororains.
Lows requiring gas companies, water companies and other corporations of like
character to*supply their customers at prices fixed by the municipal au.
thorities of the locality, are *thin the scope of legislative power unless
prohibited by constitutional limitation or valid contract obligation.
The Constitution of a State provided that corporations might be 16rmed under
.general laws, and should not be created by special act, except for munia-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.
ipal purposes, and that all laws, general and special, passed pursuant to that
provision might be from time to time altered and repealed. A general law
was enacted by the legislature for the formation of corporations for supplying cities, counties and towns with water, which provided that the rates to be
charged for water should be fixed by a board of commissioners to be appointed in part by the corporations and in part by municipal authorities.
The Constitution and laws of the State were subsequently changed so as to
take away from corporations which had been organized and put into operation under the old Constitution and laws the power to name members of
the boards of commissioners, and so as to place in municipal authorities the
sole power of fixing rates for water: Held, That these changes violated no
provision of the Constitution of the United States.

The plaintiffs in error were petitioners in the courts of California for a writ of mandamus against the defendants in error.
The constitutional question at issue was the right of the State
of California to alter the plaintiffs charter. The facts making
the case to raise this question are stated in the opinion of the
court.
Mr.Charles T. 11bx for plaintiff in error.
3h. Frani'sG. H ewlands for same.
.Xr. A. I. RAodes for defendants in error.
.Mr. George F. ME nwd

s for plaintiff in error.

Mnu. C=HF JusTICE WAr= delivered the opinion of the court.

Art. IV., see. 31, of the Constitution of California adopted
in 1849 is as follows:
"Corporations may be formed under general laws, but shall not
be created by special act except for municipal purposes. All general law~s and special acts passed pursuant to this section may be
altered from time to time, or repealed."
Acts were passed by the legislature under this authority on
the 14th of April, 1853, and the 30th of April, 1855, providing
for the formation of corporations for certain purposes, and on
the 22d of April, 1858, these acts were extended so as to include the formation of corporations for the purpose of supplying cities, counties, and towns with water. Under this exten-

SPRING VALLEY WATER WORKS v. SCHOTTLER.

349

Opinion of the Court.
sion water companies were empowered to acquire lands and
waters for their works by purchase and condemnation, and,
subject to the reasonable direction of the public authorities, to
use streets, ways, alleys, and public roads for laying their
pipes; but it was expressly provided, by an amendment enacted
in 1861"1That all canals, reservoirs, ditches, pipes, aqueducts, and all
. .
shall be used exclusively for the purpose of
conduits
supplying any city or county, or any cities or towns, in this State,
or the inhabitants thereof, with pure, fresh water."

Sec. 4 is as follows:
11SEc. 4. All corporations forimed under the provisions of this
act, or claiming any of the privileges of the same, shall furnish
pure, fresh water to the inhabitants of such city and county, or
city or town, for family uses, so long as the supply permits, at
reasonable rates, and without distinction of persons, upon proper
demand therefor, and shall furnish water, to the extent of their
means, to such city and county, or city or town, in case of fire or
other great necessity, free of charge. And the rates to be
charged for water shall be determined by a board of commissioners, to be selected as follows : Two by such city and county, or
city or town authorities, and two by the water company ; and in
case that four cannot agree to the valuation, then, in that case,
the four shall choose a fifth person, and he shall become a member of said board ; if the four commissioners cannot agree upon
a fifth, then the sheriff of the county shall appoint such fifth per-,
son. The decision of a majority of said board shall determine
the rates to -be charged for water for one year, and until
new rates shall be established. The board of supervisors, or the
proper city or town authorities, may prescribe such other proper
rules relating to the delivery of water, not inconsistent with this
act and the laws and Constitution of this State."
The Spring Valley Water Works Company was formed
under this act on the 19t 'of June, 1858, and since that time
has expended a very large amount of money in the erection of
extensive and substantial works for the supply of the city and

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

county of San Francisco with water. In January, IS 78, the
board of supervisors of the city and county appointed Isaac B.
Friedlander and I. B. Williams, and the company appointed W.
F. Babcock and Charles Webb Howard, and these four afterwards appointed Jerome Lincoln, to constitute a board of commissioners to determine, under the provisions of section 4, the
rates to be charged by the company for water. This board
met and fixed the tariff of rates to go into effect on the 1st of
June, 1878. In July, of the same year, Friedlander, one of the
commissioners appointed by the supervisors, died. By his
death a vacancy was created in the board which has never
been filled.
In 1879 the people of California adopted a new Constitution,
which went into effect on the 1st of January, 1880. Art. XTV.,
1 and 2 of this Constitution are as follows:
"AnuTICLE XIV.

"Water and Water Rights,
"SEcTiow 1. The uses of all water now appropriated, or that
may hereafter be appropriated, for sale, rental, or distribution, is

hereby declared to be a public use, and subject to the regulation
and control of the State, in the manner to be prescribed by la' :
Provided, that the rates or compensation to be collected by any
person, company, or corporation in this State for the use of water
supplied to any city and county, or city or town, or the inhabitants thereof, shall be fixed, annually, by the board of "supervisors, or city and county, or city or town council, or other governing body of such city and county, or city or town, by ordinance
or otherwise, in the manner that other ordinances or legislative acts
or resolutions are passed by such body, and shall continue in force
for one year and no longer. Such ordinances or resolutions shall
be passed in the month of February of each year, and take effect
on the first day of July thereafter. Any board or body failing
to pass the necessary ordinances or resolutions fixing water rates,
where necessary, within such time, shall be subject to peremptory
process to compel action at the suit of any party interested, and
shall be liable to such further processes and penalties as the legislature may prescribe. Any person, company, or corporation collecting water rates in any city and county, or city or town in this

SPRING VALLEY WATER WORKS v. SCHOTTLER.

351

Opinion of the Court.
State, otherwise than as so established, shall forfeit the franchises
and water works, of such person, company, or corporation to the
city and county, or city or town, where the same are collected, for
the public use.
"SEc. 2. The right to collect rates or compensation for the use
of water supplied to any county, city and county, or town, or the
inhabitants thereof, is a franchise, and cannot be exercised except
by authority of and in the manner prescribed by law."
Under this provision of the Constitution and the legislation
based thereon, the board of supervisors claim the right and
power to fix the rates to be charged by the company for water,
and refuse to appoint a member to fill the vacancy in the board
of commissioners occasioned by the death of the former incumbent. This suit was begun in the Supreme Court of the State
for a writ of mandamus requiring the board of supervisors to
take action in the matter and fill the vacancy. The court on
final hearing refused the writ and dismissed the petition. This
writ of error was brought by the company to review that
judgment.
The general question involved in this case is whether water
companies in California, forned under the act of 1858 before
the adoption of the Constitution of 1879, have a right, which
the State is prohibited by the Constituticn of the United States
from impairing or taking away, to charge their customers such
prices for Wvater as may from time to time be fixed by a com-'
mission made up of two persons selected by the company, two.
by the public authorities of the locality, and, if need be, a fifth
selected by the other four, or by the sheriff of the county. The
Spring Valley Company claims no rights of this character that
may not also be claimed by every other company formed
under the same act.
That the companies must sell at reasonable prices all the water
they are able to furnish consumers, and that the prices fixed for
the time being by the honest judgment of such a commission as
was specially provided for n the act, must be deemed reasonable, both by the company and the public, is not denied. The
dispute is as to the power of the State, under the prohibitions of

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court

the Constitution of the United States, to substitute for this commission another, selected without the co-operation of the company, or some other tribunal of a different character, like the
municipal authorities of the locality. The Spring Valley Company claims that it has, under its charter, a right to the maintenance of the commission which was created by the requisite
appointments in 1878, and the object of this suit is to compel
the board of supervisors to perpetuate that commission by filling the vacancy that exists in its membership. So that the
whole controversy here is as to the right of water companies
that availed themselves of the privileges of the act of 1858 to
secure a virtual monopoly of trade in water at a particular place,
to demand the appointment of the commission provided for in
that act, notwithstanding the Constitution of 1879 and the legislatioji under it.
The Spring -Valley Company is an artificial being created by
or under the authority of the legislature of California. The
people of the State, when they first established their government, provided in express terms that corporations, other than

for municipal purposes, should not be formed except under
general laws, subject at all times to alteration or repeal. The
reservation of power to alter or repeal the charters of corporations was not new, for almost immediately after the judgment
of this court in the Dartmouth College Case (Dartmout
College v. lFoodward,4 Wheat. 518), the States, many of them,
In granting charters acted on the suggestion of Mr. Justice
Story in his concurring opinion (p. 712), and inserted provisions
by which such authority was expressly retained. Even before
this decision it was intimated by the Supreme Judicial Court of
Massachusetts in Wdges v. Seton, 2 Mas. 143, that such a
reservation would save to the State its power of control. In
California the Constitution put this reservation into every
charter, and consequently this company was from the moment
of its creation subject to the legislative powerof alteration, and,
if deemed expedient, of absolute extinguishment as a corporate
body.
Water for domestic uses was difficult to be got in some parts
of the State. Large amounts of money were needed to secure

SPRINlG VALLEY WATER WORKS v. SCHOTTLER.

353

Opinion of the Court.

a sufficient supply for the inhabitants in many localities, and as
a means of combining capital for such purposes the act of 1858
was passed. Other statutes had been enacted before to effect
the same object, but it is said they were not such as a company
with capital enough to supply San Francisco was willing to
accept. The act of 1858 was thought sufficiently favorable,
and the Spring Valley Company, after organizing under it, expended a large amount of money to provide the means of
supplying the territory on which San Francisco is built, and
make it possible to support a great population there. All this
was done in the face of the limitations of the Constitution on
the power of the legislature to create a privatecorpoiation and
put it beyond the reach of legislative control, not only as to its
continued existence, but as to its privileges and franchises. One
of the obligations the company assumed was to sell water at
reasonable prices, and the law provided for a special commission to determine what should be deemed reasonable both by
the consumers and the company, but there is nowhere to be
found any evidence of even a willingness to contract away the
power of the legislature to prescribe another mode of settling
the same question if it should be considered desirable. In the
Sinking Fund Caze8, 99 U. S. 700, it was said that whatever
rules for the government of the affairs of a corporation might
have been put into the charter when granted could afterwards be established by the legislature under its reserved power
of amendment. Long before the Constitution of 1879 was
adopted in California, statutes had been passed in many of the
States requiring water companies, gas companies, and other
companies of like character to supply their customers at prices
to be fixed by the municipal authorities of the locality; and,
as an independent proposition, we see no reason why such a
regulation is not within the scope of legislative power, unless
prohibited by constitutional limitations or valid contract obligations. Whether expedient or not is a question for the legislature, not the courts.
It is said, however, that appointing municipal officers to fix
prices between the seller and the buyers is in effect appointing
the buyers themselves, since the buyers elect the officers, and
voL. ex-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

that this is a violation of the principle that no man shall be a
judge in his own case. But the officers here selected are the
governing board of the municipality, and they are to act in
their official capacity as such a board when performing the duty
which has been imposed upon them. Their general duty is,
within the limit of their powers, to administer the local government, and in so doing to provide that all shall so conduct themselves, and so use their own property, as not unnecessarily to
injure others. They are elected by the people for that purpose,
and whatever is within the just scope of the purpose may
properly be entrusted to them at the discretion of the legislature. That it is within the power of the government to regulate the prices at which water shall be sold by one who enjoys
a virtual monopoly of the sale, we do not doubt. That question is settled by what was decided on full consideration in
Xunn v. Illinois,94 U. S. 113. As was said in that case,
such regulations do not deprive a person of his property without due process of law. What may be done if the municipal
authorities do not exercise an honest judgment, or if they fix
upon a price which is manifestly unreasonable, need not now
be considered, for that proposition is not presented by this
record. The objection here is not to any improper prices fixed
by the officers, but to their power to fix prices at all. By the
Constitution and the legislation under it, the municipal authorities have been created a special tribunal to determine what, as
between the public and the dompany, shall be deemed a reasonable price during a certain limited period. Like every other
tribunal established by the legislature for such a purpose, their
duties are judicial in their nature, and they are bound in morals
and in law to exercise an honest judgment as to all matters
submitted for their official determination. It is not to be presumed that they wili act otherwise than according to this rule.
And here again it is to be kept in mind that the question before
us is not as to the penalties to be inflicted on the company for
a failure to sell at the prices fixed, but as to the power to fix
the price; not whether the company shall forfeit its property
and franchises to thb city and county if it fails to meet the requirements of the. Constitution, but whether the prices it shall

SPRING VALLEY WATER WORKS v. SCHOTTLER.

355

Opinion of the Court.

charge may be established in the way provided for in that instrument. It will be time enough to consider the consequences
of the omissions of the company when a case involving such
questions shall be presented.
But it is argued that as the laws in force before 1858, for the
formation of water companies, which provided for fixing the
rates by the municipal authorities, were not accepted by the
Spring Valley Company, and that of 1858, without such a provision, was, it is to be inferred that the State contracted with
this company not to subject it to the judgment of such authorities in a matter so vital to its interests. If the question were
one of construction only, this argument might have force, but
the dispute now is as to legislative power, not legislative action.
The Constitution of California adopted in 1849 prohibited one
legislature from birgaining away the power of succeeding
legislatures t6 control the administration of the affairs of a
private corporation formed under the laws of the State. Of
this legislative disability the Spring Valley Company had
notice when it accepted the privileges of the act of 1858, and
it must be presumed to have built its works and expended its
moneys in the hope that neither a succeeding legislature, nor
the people in their collective capacity when framing a Constitution, would ever deem it expedient to return to the old mode
of fixing rates, rather than on any want of power to do so, if
found desirable. The question here is not between the buyer
and the seller as to prices, but between the State and one of
its corporations as to what corporate privileges have been
granted. The power to amend corporate charters is no doubt
one that bad men may abuse, but when the amendments ar
within the scope of the power, the courts cannot interfere with
the discretion of the legislatures that have been invested' with4
authority to make them.
The organization of the Spring Valley Company was not a
business arrangement between the State and the company as
contracting parties, but the creation of a new'corporation to do
business within the State ahd to be governed as natural persons
or other corporations were or might be. lNeither are the chartered rights acquired by the company under the law to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

looked upon as contracts with the city and county of San
Francisco. The corporation was created by the State. All its
powers came from the State and none from the city or county.
As a corporation it can contract with the city and county in
any way allowed by law, but its powers and obligations, except
those which grow out of contracts lawfully made, depend alone
on the statute under which it was organized, and such alterations and amendments thereof as may, from time to time, be
made by proper authority. The provision for fixing rates cannot be separated from the remainder of the statute by calling
it a contract. It was a condition attached to the franchises
conferred on any corporation formed under the statute and
indissolubly connected with the reserved power of alteration
and repeal.
It follows that the court below was right in refusing to
award the Writ of mandamus which was prayed, and its judgment to that effect is
Affirmed.

Mft JusTICE FmLD, dissenting.
I am not able to concur with the court in its decision, nor
'can I assent to the reasons assigned for it. It seems to me
that it goes beyond all former adjudications in sanctioning
legislation impairing the obligation of contracts made by a
State with corporations. It declares, in effect, that whenever
a corporation is created with the reservation that the legislature may alter or repeal its charter, or under a law or Constitution which imposes such a reservation of power, no contract
can be made between it and the State, which shall bind the
State any longer than she may choose to be bound; that she
may provide that certain rights shall be secured, or that certain payments shall be made in consideration of work to be
performed or capital to be advanced by a corporation created
under her laws; and when the work is done and the capital
is expended, she may legally, constitutionally, repudiate her'
pledges. In other words, the decision seems to me to sanction
the doctrine, that a contract between a State and a corporation, created with the reservation mentioned, is binding only

SPRING VALLEY WATER WORKS v. SCHOTTLER.

357

Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

upon the corporation. I shall endeavor to show that this doctrine is unsound, believing that in this case, and in all others
where it is asserted, it will work injustice.
By a general law of California, passed April 14th, 1853,
provision was made for the formation of corporations for manufacturing, mining, mechanical, and chemical purposes, or for
the purpose of engaging in any &pecie of trade or commerce,
foreign or domestic. It enacted that three or more persons,
who desired to form a company for any of the purposes mentioned, should make, sign, and acknowledge, before some
officer competent to take the acknowledgments of deeds, a
certificate stating the corporate name of the company, the objects of its formation, the amount of its capital stock, the time
of its existence, which could not exceed fifty years, the number of shires of which the stock was to consist, the number of
trustees and their names, who should manage the concerns of
the company for the first three months, and the name of the
city, or town, or county in which the principal place of business of the company was to be located, and file the certificate
in the office of the clerk of the county in which such principal
place of business was located, and a certified copy thereof, under the hand of the clerk and seal of the County Court, in the
office of the Secretary of State; and that upon filing such certificate, the persons signing and acknowledging it, and their
successors, should be a body politic and corporate by the nam!
stated in the certificate, and have succession for the period
limited, and also such powers as are usually conferred upon
corporate bodies.
Under this act, and an amendatory act of 1855, corporations
were formed for the purpose of supplying the inhabitants of
the city and county of San Francisco with pure, fresh water.
Doubts were however expressed in some quarters whether sup.
plying the water was engaging in any &Tecieeof trade or commerce within the meaning of those acts. Heyneman v. Blae,
19 Cal. 579. Accordingly, on the 22d of April, 1858, a general law was passed for th4 incorporation of water companies,
which referred to the provisions of the act of 1853, and of the
amendatory act of 1855; and declared that they should apply

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

to all 'corporations, already formed or that might afterwards
be formed under said acts, for the purpose of supplying any
city and county, or any cities or towns, in the State, or the
inhabitants thereof, with pure, fresh water. On the following
day, April 23d, 1858, another act was passed, which authorized George H. Ensign and other owners of the Spring Valley
Water Works to lay down water pipes in the public streets of
the city and county of San Francisco. On the 19th of June,
1858, the plaintiff was organized as a corporation, referring in
its certificate to these last two acts; but as the special act
relating to Ensign and others was subsequently declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court of the State, the incorporation of the plaintiff rests upon the act of April 22d, 1858,
or rather upon the acts of 1854 and of 1855, to which it refers.
This act of 1858 gave the corporation thus formed the right to
purchase or to appropriate and take possession of, and use and
hold all such lands and waters as might be required for the
purposes of the company, upon making compensation therefor; with a proviso, however, that all reservoirs, canals, ditches,
pipes, aqueducts, and conduits constructed by the corporation,
should be used exclusively for the purpose of supplying the
city and county and the inhabitants thereof with pure, fresh
water.
Having provided for the incorporation of the company, the
act of 185.8. proceeded to prescribe the terms upon which water
should be supplied to the'city and county, and to their inhabitants, and the compensation which the company should receive
therefor. It declared that the company should furnish pure,
fresh water to the inhabitants for family uses, so long as the
supply permitted, at reasonable rates, and without distinction
of persons, upon proper demand therefor, and should furnish
water, to the extent of its means, to the city and county, "in
case of fire or other great necessity, free of charge." The act
further declared that the rates to be charged for water should
be determined by a board of commissioners, to be selected as
follows: two by the city and county authorities, and two by
the water company; and in case the four could not agree to
the valuation, then, in that case, the four should choose a fifth

SPRING VALLEY WATER WORKS v. SCHOTTLER.

359

Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.
person, and he should become a member of the board; and if
the four commissioners could not agree upon a fifth, then the
sheriff of the county should appoint him; and that the decision
of a majority of the board should determine the rates to be
charged for water for one year, and until new rates should be
established. The act also declared that the board of supervisors might prescribe such other proper rules relating to the
delivery of water, not inconsistent with the act and the laws
and Constitution of the State; and that the corporation should
have the right, subject to the reasonable direction of the city
authorities as to the mode and manner of exercising it, to use
so much of the streets, ways, and alleys of the city and county,
or of the public road therein, as might be necessary for laying
its pipes for conducting water into the city or county, or through
any part thereof.
The certificate of incorporation of the plaintiff declared that
the objects for which the company was formed were to introduce pure, fresh water into the city and county of San Francisco, and into any part thereof, from any point or place, for
the purpose of supplying the inhabitants of the city and county
with the same, and to do and transact all such business relating
thereto as might be necessary and proper, not inconsistent with
the laws and Constitution of the State.
The necessary supply of water could not be obtained from;
any natural streams or lakes on the peninsula, upon the uppers
end of which the city and county are situated. A small lake.
near the city furnished an insufficient supply and of inferior
quality. The company, therefore, soon after its incorporation,.
undertook to collect the required quantity in artificial reservoirs, as it descended in rain from the heavens.
At a distance of about twenty miles from the city, thete is
a natural ravine lying between the mountains near the ocean
and the hills bordering the Bay of San Francisco. The company acquired the lands within this ravine and on its sides,.
amounting, as represented by counsel, to eighteen thousand
acres, and erected in it heavy walls at long distances apart,
thus making great reservoirs, into which the water was collected until lakes were formed extending several miles in length

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

With aqueducts, pipes, and other conduits the water thus
collected was carried to the city and distributed in mains. It
is said that the cost of these works to the company amounted
to nearly fifteen millions of dollars. Before their construction
and the introduction of this water, the inhabitants of the city
were poorly and inadequately supplied. With the completion
of the works of the plaintiff all this was changed. Water
was furnished to all persons calling for it at their houses, and
if desired in every room; and to the city in abundance for all
its needs.
The law of 1858, as stated, required the corporation to furnish water, to the extent of its means, -tothe city and county,
"in case of fire or other great necessity, free of charge." This
provision had been construed by the Supreme Court of the
State to require the company also to furnish, without charge,
water to sprinkle the streets of the city, to flush its sewers,
and to irrigate its public squares and parks. Its effects will be
only partially appreciated by those who judge merely from
the size of the city, and the fact that the residences are chiefly
constructed of wood. There are other uses for a much larger
supply of water. The city is situated at the upper end of a
peninsula whose width is only a little over six miles. The
land there consists principally of a succession of sand hills,
and the daily breezes of the ocean keep the sand in almost
constant motion, except where vegetation has fixed its roots.
For this vegetation water is essential. With it, every plant
will thrive, even in the sand, and shrubs and trees will grow
in great luxuriance. The absence of water from them for even
a few months will cause the plants and shrubs to droop, wither,
and perish. The public squares of the city are numerous, and
the park-termed the "Golden Gate Park," because it is near
the entrance of the bay which is termed the "Golden Gate"
-- covers more than a mile square of these sand hills. On
these squares and this park, the constant use of water from
the reservoirs of the plaintiff is necessary to keep the grasses,
plants, and shrubs alive. Yet all water needed for these purposes is, by the law in question, to be furnished without charge.
That was one of the burdens imposed upon the plaintiff, in

SPRING VALLEY WATER WORKS v. SCHOTTLER.

361

Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

addition to the requirement that its costly works, consisting of
aqueducts extending nearly thirty miles out of the city, and
mains within it exceeding one hundred miles, should be used
exclusively for the purpose.of supplying the city and county
with water. The reasonable rates allowed for the water
furnished to the inhabitants of the city and county constituted
the only compensation of the company for the enormous outlay to which it was necessarily subjected, and for all the benefits it undertook to confer. The law in declaring that a company formed under it should supply water to the city and
county in cases of great necessity free of charge, and to their
inhabitants on demand at reasonable rates, in effect declared
that the company complying with such terms should receive
those rates for water thus supplied to the inhabitants. When,
therefore, the plaintiff organized under the law introduced the
water, a contract was completed between it on the one part
and the State on the other, that so long as it existed and
furnished the water as required it should receive this compensation. The provision for the creation of 'animpartial tribunal
to determine each year what rates should be deemed reasonable, was the very life of the stipulation for a reasonable compensation. It would not have done to leave the compensation.
to be fixed by the company alone, as it might thus make its
charges exorbitant; it would not have done to leave the rate
to be fixed by the city authorities alone, as they would be constantly under a great pressure to reduce the rates below remunerative prices, as the representatives of the city, itself a
large consumer for public buildings, and as representatives of
individual consumers, by whom they were elected and to whom
they were to look for the approval of their acts, and because
the individuals composing those authorities would also be consumers of the water equally with their constituents. It was,
therefore, provided that the rates should be fixed by commissioners, to be selected as stated above.
It would be difficult to conceive of a tribunal fairer in its
organization, or more likely to act justly and wisely for both
parties, and guard equally against extortion in prices on the
one hand and their unjust reduction on the other. Such"8;

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

tribunal was formed and, from time to time, reasonable rates
for water were established by it. But in 1879 the people of
California formed a new Constitution, which declared that the
use of all water then appropriated; or that might thereafter be
appropriated, for sale, rental, or distribution, was a public use,
and subject to the regulation and control of the State in the
manner to be prescribed by law; that the rates or compensation to be collected by any person, company, or corporation
for the use of water 9upplied to any city and county, or to its
inhabitants, should be fixed annually by the board of supervisors of the city and county, or other governing body of the
same, by ordinance or otherwise, in the manner that other
ordinances or legislative acts or resolutions are passed by such
body, and should continue in force for one year and no longer;
that such ordinances or resolutions should be passed in the
month of February of each year, and take effect on the first
day of July thereafter. And it further declared that any
board or body failing to pass the necessary ordinances or resolutions fixing water rates, when necessary, within such time,
should be subject to peremptory process to compel action at
the suit of any party interested, and should be liable to such
farther processes and penalties as the legislature might prescribe; and that any person, company, or corporation collecting water rates in any city and county, otherwise than as so
established, should forfeit -its franchises and water works to
'the city and county where the same are collected, for public
use. (Art. XIV., sec. 1.)
In July, 1878, a vacancy occurred in the board of commissioners, which the city authorities, after the adoption of the
new Constitution, refused to fill, contending that, under its
provisions, they were authorized to fix the water rates. The
present proceeding was to compel them to proceed and complete the board; and the question is whether that Constitution,
in vesting the entire power in the board of supervisors-the
governing authority of the city and county of San Franciscoimpairs the contract between the State and the company,
within the prohibition of the federal Constitution. There is
no question df the continuance of a virtual monopoly in water,

SPRING VALLEY WATER W)ORKS v. SCHOTTLER.

363

Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.
as supposed by the court. There is nothing relating to a monopoly in the case. Any five or more persons in California
can, at any time, form themselves intoa corporation to bring
water into the city and county of San Francisco on the same
terms with the plaintiff; and such new corporation can; in the
same way, form reservoirs in the.ravines in the hills and collect
water for sale, or bring*water from the mountain lakes. Until
within a few years any three or more persons could form such
a corporation. The statement that the plaintiff has a monopoly of any kind in water, and desires to secure forever certain
charges, must therefore be taken as one inadvertently made,
without due consideration of the facts. The only contention
in the case is, whether the clause of the new Constitution abrogating the stipulation for reasonable rates to be established by
a commission created as mentioned, is a valid exercise of power
by the State.
That the provision of the law of 1858, making that stipulation, was a part of the contract between the State and the
company, is not denied by the court; nor is it denied that iV
was also a part of the contract that the "reasonable rates"
should be determined by the commissioners designated. But,
the position taken, if I understand it, is, that the provision for,
their appointment is only that the rates shall be established by
an impartial tribunal, not. necessarily by one created as there
prescribed; and that the State has a right to determine what,
tribunal shall be deemed an impartial one, and, by the fourteenth article of the new Constitution, has done so and made
the board of supervisors that tribunal; and that this action
was within the power reserved by the original act of incorporation.
Of course this view destroys all the. substance and value of
the stipulation for reasonable rates and renders it utterly delu-I
desigsive. The very object of the creation of the tribunal
nated in the law of 1858 was to take the establishment of the
rates from the city authorities, who, it was believed then, as it
is known now, would be influenced and controlled by their
relation as representatives of the consumers by whom they are
elected, as well as by the fact that the individual members

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, 3.

composing those authorities would be themselves consumers
Admitting for the argument that the meaning of the provision
is only that the company shall have an impartial tribunal, and
not necessarily the one created as designated, it seems to me
to be plain that such new tribunal cannot consist of the city
authorities, against whose exclusive control the original contract expressly stipulated. Placing the regulation of rates
with them is not furnishing another tribunal equally impartial
with the one mentioned. From the very nature of its creation
and its relation to others, the board of supervisors, an elective
body, cannot be impartial. No tribunal, however honorable
and high the character of the persons composing it may be, is,
or can be, in a legal sense, impartial, when they are individually interested, and the tribunal itself, in its representative
character, is interested in the determination to be made.
It need hardly be said that it is an elementary principle of
natural justice that no man shall sit in judgment where he is
interested, no matter how unimpeachable his personal integrity. The principle is not limited to cases arising in the ordinary courts of law in the regular administration of justice, but
extends to all cases where a tribunal of any kind is established
to decide upon the rights of different parties.
In City of London v. Wood, 12 'Modern, 669, it was held by
the King's Bench that an action in the names of the mayor
and commonalty of London could not be brought before the
'court held by the mayor and aldermen; for, said Chief Justice
Holt, "it is against all laws that the same person should be
party and judge in the same cause;" and to the objection that
the Lord Mayor, as the head of the corporation, acted in his
political capacity and judged in his natural capacity, he answered: "It is true he acts in different capacities, yet the person is the same, and the difference in the capacities in which
he acts does not make a difference," which would remove the
disqualification.
The true doctrine on this subject is stated with great clearness by the Supreme Court of Massachusetts in the recent
cases of HdiaZ v. Thayer, 105 Mass. 219, where it was held
that the judge of probate was disqualified by personal interest

SPRLNG VALLEY WATER WORKS v. SCIIOTTLER.

365

Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.
to appoint his wife's brother administrator of the estate of a
deceased person of which her father was principal creditor.
Referring to the provision of article 29 of the Declaration of
Rights of that State, "that it is the right of every citizen to
be tried by judges as fair, impartial and independent as the
lot of humanity will admit," the court said:
"The provision rests upon a principle so obviously just and so
necessary for the protection of the citizen against injustice that
no argument is necessary to sustain it, but it must be accepted as
an elementary truth. The impartiality which it requires incapacitates one to act as judge in a matter in which he has any pecuniary interest, or in which his near relative or connection is one
of the parties. It applies to civil as well as criminal causes, and
not only to judges of courts of common law and equity and
probate, but to special tribunals and to persons authorized on a
special occasion to decide between partiesin respect to their rights."
[And, after referring to several decisions where the principle had
been applied, the court said].: "These decisions show that the
provision is to have no technical or strict construction, but it is
to be broadly applied to all classes of cases where one is appointed to decide the rights of his fellow-citizens."
I admit that the interest which'will disqualify a special tribunal from acting in a matter affecting conflicting rights of
parties must be a'direct pecuniary interest either in its mem
bers or in the persons represented by it, which may, be increased or diminished by the determination reached. Such is
the precise condition of the board of supervisors of the city
and county of San Francisco with respect to the prices to be
paid for the water furnished by the plaintiff. The consumers
of the water constitute, with few exceptions where a well may
have been sunk, the entire people of that district, including
the supervisors themselves, and they are all, therefore, directly
interested to reduce its price. If the board were to seek to
acquire land whereon to oxen a new street, or to erect public
buildings, no one would pretend that the compensation which
it would be necessary to make to the owner, could be fixed b,
the board, or by appraisers whom it should appoint. It would

OCTOBER TERM.U, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, .

be on that subject an interested party, and, therefore, on the
principle already stated, could not act in the matter where.the
rights of others were concerned.
The Supreme Court of Wisconsin held a provision of law
void which authorized the common council of a municipal corporation to appoint jurors to assess damages to the owner of
property taken for public uses of the city, in the place of others previously appointed for that purpose by a judge of the
Circuit or County Court, but who had neglected or refused to
serve.
1 A majority," said the court, "or even all of the jurors selected
to establish the necessity of taking the property, may refuse to
act in fixing the amount of damages, in which case the common
council, one of the parties, a parte, may appoint a jury which
shall determine'the amount of damages the city must pay. It is
impossible to comment in a proper manner upon such a provision
which confounds all our notions of fairness, justice, and right."
Lums&en v. .Milwaukee City, 8 Wis. 485, 494.
If instead of land the board should desire to acquire personal property-fuel for the public buildings of the city, paving
material for its streets, engines for its fire department, or any
other property for its needs-no one would pretend, independently of any law on the subject, that there would be any justice or fairness in allowing that body alone to determine the
.price to be paid.
There will always be, as I have said, a great pressure upon
the board by the people electing it to regulate the price of the
water in their interest, without regard to that of the company.
The influence thus exerted to warp the judgment of the members and change the character of the body from that of an
impartial tribunal to one acting in the interest of its constituents, every practical man dealing with the corpbration would
appreciate and act upon. All the influences usually brought
to bear at elections to secure the choice of those who will carry
out the wishes of the voters, we should expect to see applied
to secure the election of candidates thus empowered to fix the
price of the article which the voters daily consume. And

SPRING VALLEY WATER WORKS v. SCHOTTLER.

367

Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

what we might thus exTect has occurred at every election
since the new Constitution went into effect. A suit was
recently brought by the plaintiff in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of California against the mayor
and supervisors of San Francisco to enjoin the passage of an
ordinance, then proposed, to fix the price of its water under this
new Constitution. Among other reasons urged upon the consideration of the court was the fact that the mayor and supervisors, before the election, had pledged themselves to make a
material reduction in the rates, which, if carried out, the company contended would be destructive of its interests. The
fact that such pledges were made was not controverted, but
the court answered that
"If it be competent at all, under the provision in question, for
the people of San Francisco through their representatives in- the
board of supervisors to pass the proposed ordinance, it is difficult
to perceive why, in looking around for agents or representatives
to carry out their will, it is unlawful to ask in advance whether
those seeking to represent them will obey their command in these
particulars, or to require a pledge to that effect before committing
the trust to them."

And in the same case the court referred to the clause in the
new Constitution declaring that any corporation collecting
water rates in any city and county otherwise than as established
by the board of supervisors of the district, should forfeit its
franchises and water works to the city and county for the use
of the public, and said:
"It would seem.td be only necessary to make this brief statement of the case to enable one of ordinary intelligence, endowed
with a reasonable share of moral sense, to perceive the monstrous
injustice of thus placing the large investments of complainant,
made under the stimulus of the inducement held out by the act
of 1808, at the absolute mercy of an irresponsible public sentiment, or of public cupidity. This last provision would seem to
offer a large premium for the perpetration of a wrong-a large
inducement to the purchaser (the consumer) to fix the price at unremunerative rates, .in order to secure the large property by for-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

feiture and confiscation, or to so largely diminish its value as to
force a sale to the city at a price far below its real value. It was
alleged in the argument, and not denied, to be a matter of public
history and public notoriety, of which we are authorized to take
notice, that such designs have been openly and publicly avowed
and advocated by public speakers."
It is difficult to understand how.any just man, carefully considering what has been thus stated, can hold that the board
constitutes an impartial tribunal such as the law of 1858 assured the plaintiff, as an inducement for its large expenditures,
it should always have to determine what rates are reasonable.
The great wrong and injustice done to the plaintiff by subjecting the determination of the rates it shall receive for its
property to the judgment of a tribunal thus deeply interested
against it, and impelled to reduce them by an exacting and
constantly pressing constituency, are declared by the court to
be justified by the law and Constitution of the State, and in
no way forbidden by the contract clause of the federal Constitution which was designed to insure the observance of good
faith in the stipulation of parties against State action. Authority to interfere with and destroy the contract rights of the
plaintiff is claimed, as already stated, under the power reserved
to the State by its Constitution, in force at the time, to alter
or repeal the law pursuant to which the plaintiff was incorporated. Such authority is also asserted from the public interest
which the State is alleged to have acquired in the use of the
water furnished by the plaintiff.
Upon each of these grounds I have a few words to say. The
clause of the State Constitution referred to in the first of them
is in these words:
"Corporations may be formed under general laws, but shall not
be created by special act, except for municipal purposes. All
general laws and special acts passed pursuant to this section may
be altered from time to time or repealed."
It is contended that the right thus reserved to alter or repeal
the general law, under which the plaintiff was incorporated,

SPRING VALLEY WATER WORKS v. SCHOTTLER.

369

Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

authorized the State to exercise greater control over the business and property of the company than it could have exercised
over like business and property of natural persons; that as the
repeal of the general law would put an end to the corporation,
the State could prescribe the conditions of its continued existence, and, therefore, could legitimately impose any restrictions
and limitations, however burdensome, upon the subsequent
possession and use of its property, and require the corporation
to comply with them. Indeed, there seems to be an impression in the minds of counsel, and, from the language not infrequently used by some judges, in their minds also, that the reservation in charters of corporations and in laws authorizing
the formation of corporations, of a power to alter or repeal
such charters or laws, operates as a gift to the State and to
the legislature of uncontrolled authority over the business and
property of the corporations. And yet no doctrine is more
unfounded in principle or less supported by authority. When
carried out in practice, it is utterly destructive of all rights of
property of corporate bodies. Those who entertain it overlook
the occasion which led to the adoption of the clause containing
the reservation, and the object it was designed to accomplish.
When this court, in the Dartmouth College case, decided
that the charter of a private corporation was a contract between the State and the corporators, and therefore within tha
protection of the inhibition of the federal Constitution against
impairment of contracts by State legislation, it was suggested
by Judge Story, who concurred in the decision, that this unalterable and irrepealable character of the contract might be
avoided by a reservation of power in the original charter.
"In my judgment," he said, "it is perfectly clear that any act
of a legislature which takes away any powers or franchises vested
by its charter in a private corporation or its corporate officers, or
which restrains or controls the legitimate exercise of them, or
transfers them to other persons without its assent, is a violation
If the legislature mean to
of the obligation of that 'harter.
claim such an authority, it must be reserved in the grant. The
charter of Dartmouth College contains no such reservation, and
vo.

cx-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.
am, therefore, bound to declare that the acts of the legislature of
New Hampshire now in question do impair the obligation of that
charter, and are consequently unconstitutional and void." 4
Wheat. 712.
In another part of his opinion he refers to an early decision
of the Supreme Court of Massachusetts, which had declared
that the rights legally vested in a corporation could not be
controlled or destroyed by a subsequent statute, "unless a
powerfor that purpose be reserved to the legislature n the act
of incorporation." 4 Wheat. '708.
When the general character of the decision in the Dartmouth College case became known, the States acted very generally upon the suggestion of Judge Story, and few charters
were subsequently granted without a clause reserving to the
legislature the power to alter or repeal them. In some instances a general law was enacted, declaring that all corporations subsequently created should be subject to this reserved
-power; and in some cases, where a new Constitution was
adopted by a State, a clause of similar import was inserted.
The object of the reservation, in whatever form expressed, was
to preserve to the State control over the corporate franchises,
rights, and privileges which, in her sovereign or legislative
capacity, she had called into existence; in other words, to enable her to annul or modify that which she had created. It
was not its object to interfere with contracts which the corporation, when once created, might make, nor with the property
which it might acquire.
Such is the purport of our language in Tomlinson v. essup,
15 Wall. 454, where we stated the object of the reservation to
be "to prevent a grant of corporate rights and privieges in a
form which will preclude legislative interference with their
exercise, if the public interest should, at any time, require such
interference;" and that
"The reservation affects the entire relation between the State
and the corporation, and places under legislative control all rights,
privileges, and immunities derived,by its charter, directly from
the State."

SPRING VALLEY WATER WORKS v. SCHOTTLER.

3"71

Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

In Railroad Company vJ -Maine,96 U. S. 499, where a law
containing a similar reservation was under consideration, we
expressed substantially the same thing; that by the reservation the State retains the power to alter the act of incorporation in all particulars constituting the grant to it of "corporate
rights, prvleges, and immnunities;" and that "the existence
of the corporation and its franchises and immunities, derived
directly from the State," are thus kept under her control, adding, however, "that rights and interests acquired by the company, not constituting a part of the contract of incorporation,
stand upon a different footing."
As thus seen, the reservation applies only to the contract of
incorporation, to the corporate existence, franchises, and privileges granted by the State. With respect to everything else,
it gives no power that the State would not have had without
it. Necessarily it cannot apply to that which the State never
possessed or created, and, therefore, could not grant. It leaves
the corporation, its business and property, exactly where they
would have been, had the Supreme Court held, in the Dartmouth College case, that charters are not contracts within the
constitutional prohibition against legislative impairment. It
accomplished nothing more; and any doctrine going beyond
this would be subversive of the security by which the property
of corporations is held, and in the end would destroy the security of all private rights. Behind the artificial body created
by the legislature stand the corporators, natural persons, who
have united their means to accomplish an object beyond their
individual resources, and who are as much entitled, under the
guaranties of the Constitution, to be secured in the possession
and use of their property thus held as before they had associated themselves together. Whatever power the State may
possess over corporations In their creation or in passing or
amending the laws under which they are formed and altered,
it cannot withdraw them from the guarantees of the Federal
Constitution. As I said on another occasion:
"The State cannot impose the condition that the corporation
shall not resort to the courts of law for the redress of injuries or

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.
the protection of its property ; [or when in court, that it shall be
subjected to different rules of evidence and be required to prove
by two witnesses what individuals may establish by one;] that it
shall make no complaint if its goods are plundered and its premises invaded ; that it shall ask no indemnity if its lands be seized
for public use, or be taken without due process of law, or that it
shall submit without objection to unequal and oppressive burdens
arbitrarily imposed upon it; that, in other words, towards it and
its property the State may exercise unlimited and irresponsible
power. Whatever the State may do even with the creations of
its own will, it must do in subordination to the inhibitions of the
Federal Constitution. It may confer by its general laws upon
corporations certain capacities of doing business, and of having
perpetual succession in its members. It may make its grant in
these respects revocable at pleasure ; it may make it subject to
modifications; it may impose conditions upon its use, and reserve
the right to change these at will. But whatever property the
corporation acquires in the exercise of the capacities conferred,
it holds under the same guarantees which protect the property of
individuals from spoliation. It cannot be taken for public use
without compensation ; it cannot be taken without due process of
law; nor can it be subjected to burdens different from those laid
upon the property of individuals under like circumstances."
In Detroit v. Howell Plank Road Comnlany, 43 Mich. 140,
147, the Supreme Court of Michigan, in considering this sub-

ject, uses similar language.

Speaking by Mr. Justice Cooley,

it said:
"But for the provision of the Constitution of the United States
which forbids impairing the obligation of contracts, the power to
amend and repeal corporate charters would be ample without being expressly reserved. The reservation of the right leaves the
State where any sovereignty would be, if unrestrained by express
constitutional limitations and with the powers it would then possess. It might, therefore, do what it would be admissible for any
constitutional government to do when not thus restrained, but it
could not do what would be inconsistent with constitutional principles. And it cannot be necessary at this day to enter upon a
discussion in denial of the right of the government to take from

SPRING VALLEY WATER WORKS v. SCHOTTLER.

373

Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.
either individuals or corporations any property which they may
rightfully have acquired. In the most arbitrary times such an
act was recognized as pure tyranny, and it has been forbidden in
England ever since .Magna Charta, and in this country always.
It is immaterial in what way the property was lawfully acquired,
whether by labor in the ordinary vocations of life, by gift or descent, or by making profitable use of a franchise granted by the
State; it is enough that it has become private property, and it is
then protected by the ' law of the land."'

Applying these views to the case before us it will be seen
that the right asserted by the State, with respect to the
property of the Spring Valley Water Company, cannot be upheld. The State gave to certain parties the right to form
themselves into that corporation for the purpose of conveying
pure and fresh water to the city and county of San Francisco.
It did not grant to them the reservoirs by which that water is
accumulated; it did not grant to them the aoueducts by which
the water is carried to the city and county; it did not grant to.
them the pipes by which the water is distributed through the
city; it only gave facilities for the conveyance of the water
to the city and for its distribution. It could not, therefore,
under its reserved power over the corporation, appropriate
these reservoirs, aqueducts, and mains without making compensation for them; nor could it divert them, except upon like
terms, from the purposes for which they were constructed, to
the supplying of the city and county with salt instead of fresh
water, or with gas or oil, or devote them to other uses.
The water itself is the property of the company. It was not
taken from a running stream; nor from any lake; nor from
any source where the government could assert that it alone had
the right to control and use it. It was collected by the company as it descended from the heavens. Whatever may be the
differences of opinion as to the ownership of running waters, or
of waters of navigable streams, or of lakes, it has never been
doubted that water collected by individual agency, from the
roof of one's house, or in hogsheads, barrels, or reservoirs
as it descends from the clouds, is as much private property

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion:'Field, J.

as anything else that is reduced to possession, which otherwise would be lost to the uses of man. Indeed, it is a general principle of law, both natural and positive, that where
a subject, animate or inanimate, which otherwise could not be
brought under the control or use of man, is reduced to such
control or use by individual labor a right of property in it is
acquired by such labor. The wild bird in the air belongs to
no one, but when the fowler brings it to the arth and takes it
into his possession it is his property. He has reduced it to his
control by his own labor, and the law of nature and the law of
society recognize his exclusive right to it. The pearl at the
bottom of the sea belongs to no one, but the diver who enters
the waters and brings it to light has property in the gem. He
has, by his own labor, reduced it to possession, and in all communities and by all law his right to it is recognized. So the
trapper on the plains and the hunter in the north have a
property in the furs they have gathered, though the animals
from which they were taken roamed at large and belonged to
no one. They have added by their labor to the uses of man
an article promoting his comfort which, without that labor,
would have been lost to him. They have a right, therefore, to
the furs, and every court in christendom would maintain it.
So when the fisherman drags by his net fish from the sea, he
has a property in them, of which no one is permitted to despoil
him. It was in conformity with this principle that this court,
in Atchison v. Petmson, 20 Wall., 507, 512, in speaking of the
general occupation of the public lands made free for mining,
and the rights of the first appropriator of lands containing
mines, said that
" He who first connects his own labor with property thus situate t, and open to general exploration, does, in natural justice,
acquire a better right to its use and enjoyment than others who
have not given such labor. So the miners, on the public lands
throughout the Pacific States and Territories, by their customs,
usages, and regulations, everywhere recognize the inherent justice
of this principle, and the principle itself was, at an early day,
recognized by legislation and enforced by the courts of those

States and Territories."

SPRING VALLEY WATER WORKS v. SCHOTTLER.

375

Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.
When the plaintiff brought water to the city of San Francisco, it had a right to sell the property at such reasonable prices
as it could obtain, as it might have sold grain, or fruit, or
coal, had it brought those articles to market. If the State
could interfere and insist that such reasonable prices should be
determined by other authority than the company, that authority
must also have been other than that of the consumers or of their
agents. Of the limitations upon the power of the State in this
respect, independently of its contract, and for what compensation it can compel the company to sell its property, I shall
hereafter speak. It is sufficient at present to say that the power
reserved over the act of incorporation gave the State no control
over such compensation which it did not possess without the
reservation.
Its control here is limited by the stipulations
of the contract with the company. The legislature can, of
course, repeal the act under which the plaintiff was incorporated,
and thus put an end to its corporate existence, but so long as
the corporation remains the contract remains with all its binding force.
The contract between the State and the corporators, by which
the plaintiff became a corporation, is not to be confounded with
the contract between the State and the corporation when created.
Although the two contracts are contained in the same law, they
are to be treated as separate and distinct from each other as if
they were embraced in diffeient statutes. Private corporations,,
by the Constitution of California, can be formed only under
general laws; but all that is embraced by a general law of that
character may not necessarily be a part of the contract of incorporation of parties forming themselves into a corporate body
under it. It may refer to matters having no relation to corporate bodies, such as rules of evidence, forms of procedure, or
descent of property; and it may contain contracts for specific
work by the corporation created. No greater legislative control over such matters would result from their association in
the same law which authorized the formation of the corporation, than if they were contained in separate acts. If, for
example, the plaintiff' had been incorporated to bring to the
city and county of San Francisco, instead of water from its res-

OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Dissenting Opinion: Field, 3.

ervoirs, granite from its quarries, and the act had provided that,
having brought the granite, it should sell it to individuals at a
designated price per cubic foot for paving the sidewalks, and to
the city for the construction of a court room, or a public hall;
would it be pretended that by virtue of its reserved power over
the corporation the State could compel the sale and delivery of
the granite at a different price? The natural and just answer
would be that the contract with the corporation for the purchase of the granite is a differenl matter from the contract by
which the corporators became a corporation; and would the
answer be less just and perfect if the contract had stipulated
that the price of the stone should be fixed by a commission of
stone-cutters, or parties familiar with the value of the material?
The different mode of reaching the price would work no change
in the binding force of the contract.
Again, suppose that the plaintiff had been incorporated with
power to loan money under an act requiring it to make a loan
to the city at a specified rate of interest, and acting upon the
authority, it had made a loan for years at such rate, could the
State, by virtue of its reserved power over the corporation
created, compel it to receive a less rate of interest than that
stipulated, and make further loans at such reduced rates ? The
obvious answer to such a question would be that the contract
authorized by the law was not the contract by which the lender
became a corporation, and it is to the latter alone that the
reserved power applies. Would it make any difference if the
contract had stipulated that the interest should be annually
fixed by the Secretary of the Treasury, or a commission appointed by him? The mode of reaching the rate of interest
would not affect the binding character of the contract. The
cases thus supposed in no respect differ in principle from the one
before us. If the contract in this case cannot be upheld, the
contracts in those could not be. Indeed, no contract between
the State and a corporation created with the reservation mentioned could bind the State, though every term of obligation
and every pledge of honor which language could express should
be embodied in it.
It must be, that it is within the competence of the sovereign.

SPRING VALLEY WATER WORKS v. SCHOTTLER. 317
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.
power of a State to make a bargain which it cannot break. As
observed by one of the distinguished counsel who argued this
case, the very notion of the existence of a State-and it
does not require a constitutional provision for that-is that,
being a political body, it has a right to make a business arrangement with a particular party, corporate or personal, about
a particular thing, which shall bind both. And in my judgment
it is the plain duty of the court, when such an arrangement
comes up for consideration, to assert its binding character and,
so far as practicable, hold the parties to it.
I proceed to consider the position that the public of California
had acquired such an interest in the water of the plaintiff as to
authorize the State to fix the rates at which it shall be sold.
The new Constitution declares in its fourteenth article that the
use of all water appropriated for sale, rental, or distribution is
a public use, and subject to the regulation and control of the
State. I do not suppose that by this declaration the State
intended to take possession of or assert an interest in all the
water within its limits appropriated for sale,, rental, or distribution, without regard to the rights of individuals who may have
collected it in reservoirs, or stored it in other ways to enable
them to dispose of it advantageously. A proceeding to enforce
such a declaration would be open to constitutional objections
against taking private property for public use without compensation to the owners. The object of the constitutional,
declaration, as I understand it, was to assert such a control by
the State over the sale and distribution of water as to prevent
it from being diverted by those who had appropriated, or might
appropriate it, from the necessary uses of the public, or from
being held at extravagant prices. To such a declaration no one
can reasonably object, and if carried out with the observance of
the rules which govern in other cases where private property
is taken for public use, no legal obstacle can be raised to its enforcement.
The right to take private property for public use is inherent
in all governments. It requires no constitutional declaration
for its recognition; it appertains to sovereignty. The conditions upon which it shall be exercised axe the only matters

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

requiring constitutional guarantees, and those conditions are that
just compensation shall be made to the owner of the property,
and that this compensation shall be ascertained by an impartial
tribunal. A compliance with these conditions is essential, without which the taking of theproperty would be amere exercise of
arbitrary power not recognized as legitimate by any principles
obtaining in the government of this country, State or federal.
When the use is public-and within certain limits, the State
may determine that it is so-any property which the State may
deem necessary for that use it may appropriate. The necessity
or expediency of the appropriation is not a mattet for judicial
inquiry. The supplying of pure water to a city and its inhabitants is a matter of public concern. The taking of water held
by private parties for that purpose is an appropriation of it for
a public use; and the same conditions for its lawful appropriation must be followed as when property of a different character
is thus taken. There must be the just compensation for it to
the owner, and the impartial tribunal to appraise its value and
determine the amount of the compensation. In Gardnerv. The
Trtees of the Village of JVewburg, 2 Johns. Ch. 162, Chancellor Kent held that the owner of land over which a stream of
water ran had a legal right to the use of the water, of which he
could not be deprived against his consent without just compensation for it. A statute of New York had authorized the
trustees of the village to supply its inhabitants with water, and
the chancellor enjoined them from diverting for that purpose
the water of a stream which ran through the plaintiff's land,
because the statute had made no provision for compensation
for it. What gives special significance to this decision, is the
fact that the Constitution of :New York at that time contained
no provision, such as is found in all State Constitutions since
adopted, against taking private property for public use without
compensation. The chancellor showed that on general principles of justice recognized by all free govdrnments, and by the
writings of eminent jurists, such a provision for ccmpensation
is an indispensable attendant on the due and constitutional exercise of the power of depriving an individual of his property.
And he said that

SPRING VALLEY WATER WORKS v. SCHOTTLER.

379

Dissenting Opinicn: Field, T.

"A right to a stream of water is as sacred as right to the soil over
which it flows. It is a part of the freehold of which no man can
be disseized but by lawful judgment of his peers, or by due process of law."

If water cannot be taken by the State for public purposes
from a stream running through the land of a private party
without just compensation to him, surely the water collected
in reservoirs on the lands of the plaintiff as it descends from
the heavens cannot be taken for public uses without like compensation. The water thus collected, as already stated, is the
property of the plaintiff, to which its title is as perfect as to
the reservoirs and aqueducts which it has constructed. It is
taken for public use; the use of the city and county, and of
their inhabitants. If the plaintiff were dealing with the city
or city and county alone, and were compelled to deliver its
water at a prescribed price per gallon or hogshead, or according to some other mode of measurement, there could be no
question that it would be a case of appropriating private property to public use. Is the character of the transaction at all
changed because the water is to be delivered in part to the city
and county, and in part to individual consumers, and that the
latter are required to make compensation for what they take?
There is the same appropriation of the property for public use
in the one case as in the other, and it is for the protection-of
the owner, that he may not be despoiled of his -property, that
the constitutional guaranty was adopted. It matters not to
whom the law may compel the delivery of the property,
whether to one or many, if it is appropriated to public use.
Water cannot be applied for the purposes required by the city
and county or by their inhabitants, without being consumed.
So that language employed with respect to regulating compensation for the use of articles of a durable character, such as
vehicles, cars, and roads, is inappropriate and misleading when
applied to water used for domestic purposes, or for sprinkling
streets, extinguishing fires, flushing sewers, and irrigating
parks. Regulating the price to be paid for the use of water in
such cases is determining the compensation to be made to the

OCTOBER TER-f, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

owner for transferring his title. The body of the water passes
by its use from his ownership. In all such cases the great
principle applies as when property of a durable character is
appropriated for public use, that compensation, to be ascertained by an impartial tribunal, must be made to the owner.
As in Pumpelly v. Green Bay Cornany, 13 Wall. 166-177,
in considering whether, in the execution by a public improvement authorized by law, a flooding by water of land so as to deprive its owner of its use was a taking of it in the sense of the
Constitution so as to entitle him to compensation, this court
said:
"It would be a very curious and unsatisfactory result if in construing a provision of constitutional law, always understood to
have been adopted for protection and security to the rights of the
individual as against the government, and which has received the
commendation of jurists, statesmen, and commentators as placing
the just principles of the common law on that subject beyond the
power of ordinary legislation to change or control them, it shall
be held that if the government refrains from the absolute conversion of real property to the uses of the public, it can destroy
its value entirely-can inflict irreparable and permanent injury to
any extent-can in effect subject it to total destruction without
making any compensation, because in the narrowest sense of that
word it is not taking it for the public use."
So I say it would be a very curious and unsatisfactory result
if in construing this constitutional provision, designed to protect the property of the citizen against spoliation by the government, and to insure to him when taken for public uses just
compensation, to be ascertained by an impartial tribunal, it
should be held that when the owner is required to surrender
the property taken in parcels to different parties and receive
compensation as delivered to them, such compensation need be
only such as the government in its discretion may think proper
to prescribe. As stated in the Pumpelly case, it would make
the constitutional provision an authority for the invasion of
private rights under the pretext of the public good, which has
no warrant in the laws and practice of our ancestors.

SPRING VALLEY WATER WORKS v. SCHOTTLER.

381

Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.
All the authorities lay down the doctrine that the property
must be appraised and compensation therefor fixed by an impartial tribunal. It need not be a court of law; it may be
composed of commissioners appointed for the special purpose.
Whatever its form, its members must be free from interest and
should be uninfluenced by prejudice, passion, or partisanship.
And its proceedings must be conducted in some fair and just
mode, either with or without a jury, as may be provided by
law, with opportunity to the parties interested to present evidence as to the value of the property, and to be heard thereon.
The legislature which determines the public purpose to be accomplished and designates the property to be taken, cannot act
as such tribunal and fix the compensation, for that would be
equivalent to allowing the legislature to take the property on
its own terms.
"The proceeding" to assess the compensation, says Cooley,
"is judicial in its character, and the party in interest is entitled
to have an impartial tribunal and the usual rights and privileges
which attend judicial investigations. It is not competent for the
State to fix the compensation through the legislature, for this
would make it the judge in its own cause." Constitutional Lim-*
itations, 704.
For the same reason a corporation which has the power to
condemn cannot fix the compensation. It would thus becom
a purchaser at its own price, without regard to the estimate of
others as to the value of the property taken. Nor can the corporation appoint the appraisers of the property, for they would,
in that case, be its agents, and as such disqualified. Relationship to the parties whose property is to be appropriated, or interest in the property, would disqualify the members of the
tribunal as it would jurors before a court.
An act of the legislature of Minnesota provided for taking
certain property for public use, and appointed, without the
consent of the owners, three persons as commissioners to deters,
mine the compensation to be madr, without requiring any
notice to the owners of the proceeding or providing that they
might at any stage appear before the commissioners, and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

Supreme Court of the State held the law to be unconstitutional
and void. The Constitution of the State contained no express
provision as to the mode by which the compensation to be paid
should be determined, and the court said:
"While the legislature is the judge of the necessity or expe-

diency of the exercise of the power of eminent domain, it is not
the judge of the amount or justness of the compensation to be
made when the power is exercised;" [and again:] "While, therefore, the Constitution prescribes no proper mode in which the
compensation shall be determined, it would seem to follow that
as to the question of the amount of compensation, the owner of
the land taken for public use has a right to require that an impartial tribunal be provided for its determination, and that the government is bound in such cases to provide such tribunal, before
which both parties may meet and discuss their claims on equal
terms. And such seems to be the tenor of the authorities upon
this question. The act in question does not provide such a tribunal. The commissioners to determine the compensation are
private citizens, appointed directly by the legislature, without the
consent of the persons whose land is taken by the public. No
notice of the proceedings before the commissioners is given ; the
land owner is not authorized to appear at any stage of the proceedings to object to the commissioners; to introduce any proof
or allegation before them. The proceedings are entirely exparte.
It certainly cannot be said that this is a just or equitable mode
to determine the compensation due to a citizen for property taken
for public use." Langford v. County Commissioners of -arnsey County, 16 Iinn. 375.

Objections are often made in the courts of law to the reports
of commissioners of appraisement, upon application to set them
aside, on the ground that the members have been improperly
influenced by others, and have allowed their judgment to be
warped by solicitations, or by prejudice or partisanship, and
when such objections have been sustained by proper proofs the
reports have been adjudged invalid.
If, in the light of these decisions, we turn to the board of
supervisors of San Francisco, it would seem impossible for us

SPRING VALLEY WATER WORKS v. SCHOTTLER.

383

Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

to hesitate in declaring that in no respect can it be deemed an
impartial tribunal, however honest its members may personally
be, to determine the compensation which the owners of the
water delivered to the city and its inhabitants should receive.
Interested as its members are, as consumers of the water, as
agents of the city, also a large consumer, and elected by constituents, every one of whom is a daily consumer, it is wanting
in every essential particular to render it, in a legal sense, an
impartial tribunal. If, therefore, as I have attempted to show,
and I think have shown, the water of the plaintiff is its property, and when it is taken under the law of the State for public use, the plaintiff is entitled to just compensation, that board
is incompetent to act in determining what that compensation
shall be. It is difficult to conceive of any tribunal more liable
to be controlled by external influences against the interests of
the company.
Upon the action of the supervisors with reference to all other
matters, it has been found necessary, for the protection of the
public, to impose numerous restrictions. Without them, improvident contracts on behalf of the city and county would be
made, extravagant schemes of supposed improvement undertakeii, and its treasury be depleted. And yet this body, which,
without any imputation upon the personal integrity of its members, but out of regard to the common weakness of humanity,
the community will not trust in other matters without guards
against its improvidence, and which is exposed to every influence which can warp its judgment and pervert its action, is
allowed almost unlimited control over the property of the
plaintiff and the compensation to be paid for it, and respecting
which the plaintiff is not permitted to be heard except as a
matter of favor.
So in every aspect in which this case can be exhibitedwhether we regard the contract contained in the act of 1858, or
treat the compulsory delivery of the property as a taking of it
for public use--there is no feature in the acts authorized by the
new Constitution with respect to its property which does not
violate the constitutional rights of the plaintiff. In the enforced sale of its property at prices to be fixed by the agents

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

of the consumers, the line is passed which separates regulation
from spoliation.
For the reasons thus stated I cannot assent to the judngment
of the court.

HOWARD COUNTY v. PADDOCK.
m

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF 1ISSOURI.
Argued January22d, 1834.-Decided February 4th, 1884.

.issouri--iunicipal Bonds-imunicipalCorporation.
The Louisiana and Missouri Railroad, through Howard County, Missouri, was
constructed under authority derived from the original charter granted in
1859, and the power conferred by that act upon the county to subscribe
to the capital stock of the railroad company without a vote of the people
was not affected by the amendment to the Constitution in 1865. Ca)Zaway
County v. Foster, 93 U. S. 567, affirmed and followed.

.X'. John D. Stevenson for plaintiff in error.
.Mr. John H. Overall for defendant in error.
MM. CIIF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.

It was conceded on the argument of this case that under the
original charter of the Louisiana and Missouri River Railroad
Company granted in 1859, Howard County had authority to
subscribe to the capital stock of the company without a vote of
the people, and that this authority was not taken away by the
Constitution of 1865. The claim is, however, that the amending act of 1868 so changed the original charter as to subject it
to the prohibitions of the Constitution as to municipal subscriptions made after that act was passed and accepted by the company. As to this it is sufficient to say that in County of Cal away v. Foster,93 U. S. 567, it was decided otherwise. By the
act of 1868 power was given to build a branch through Callaway County, and to extend the road across the Missouri River,
but no change was made in the direction of the main line.

