EAST ST. LOUIS v. ZEBLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

suspicion of fraud. Outside of this circumstance there is no
proof.
It is finally alleged that, upon a settlement of accounts
between the guardian and ward, a larger amount should have
been found due to the latter than was awarded by the court
below. But the decree on that point is in conformity with the
evidence.
Wefind no error in the record, and the decree is affrmed.

EAST ST. LOUIS & THE TREASURER OF EAST
ST. LOUIS v. UTNITED STATES ex rel. ZEBLEY.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted January 23d, 1884.-Decided February 4th, 1884.

Illinois Statute-M.funicipal Cororation-Taxaton.
The charter of East St. Louis limited the right of taxation for all
purposes to
one per centum per annum on the assessed value of all taxable property in
the city, and required the city council to levy a tax of three mius on the
dollar on each assessment for general purposes, and apply it to the interest and sinking fund on its bonded debt: Held, That the use of the
remaining seven-tenths was within the discretion of the municipal authorities, aud was not subject to judicial order in advance of an ascertained surplus.

.fr. ,.X. Free7s and .X&. B. IT Can y for plaintiffs in error.
.21r. T.

. -father for defendant in error.

JusnoEr
MATrHEWS delivered the opinion of the court.
The relator having recovered judgments in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Southern District of Illinois upon
bonds issued by the city of East St. Louis, a municipal corporation of that State, was awarded in this proceeding a peremptory
mandamus. The directiona of the judgment are as follows:
MR.

"That said defendant, the city of East St. Louis, do, through
its proper corporate authorities, levy and collect full one per cent.
voL. cx-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

per annum taxes upon the assessed and equalized valuation of all
the real and personal taxable property of said city for the year A.D.
.1883, and subsequent years, until the full payment and discharge
'of all balance due upon said judgments in said petition mentioned,
with lawful interest thereon, and the costs of said suits wherein
said judgments were obtained, as also the costs of this suit.
"It is hereby further ordered and adjudged that said city do,
through its proper corporate authorities, annually, commencing
with the year A. D. 1883, appropriate and set apart three thousand
dollars out of three-tenths of said one per cent. levy, and the sum
of ten thousand dollars out of the remaining seven-tenths of said
one per cent. levy, as a special fund for the payment of said judg!ments, interests and costs until the same are fully paid and discharged.
"It is further ordered and adjudged that said city annually,
through its proper corporate authorities, pay over said sums, so
soon as collected, to petitioner's attorney of record, to be applied
toward the payment of said judgments, interest, and costs.
"It is further ordered and adjudged that said city do annually,
for the year A. D. 1883 and subsequent years, until said judgments,
-interest,and costs" are fully paid, exercise, through its proper corporate authorities, to the full extent of its charter provisions, all
its powers and resources of taxation and revenue derivable from
all sources whatever; and that it do, through its said corporate
authorities, appropriate, use, and expend its said revenues in the
most rigid and economical administration of its municipal affairs,
to the end that said judgments, interest and costs may be paid as
speedily as possible. And it is ordered and adjudged that whatever funds remain at the end of each fiscal year, if any, after such
economical administration of its affairs, as above ordered, that it
apply the same in further liquidation of said judgments."
The cause having been cluly submitted to the court without
the intervention of a jury, the court made the following special
findings:
"1st That said city of East St. Louis is organized and existing
under a special act of the legislature of fllinois, approved March
26th, 1869, entitled 'An Act to reduce the charter of East St.
Louis, and the several acts amendatory thereto, into one act, and

EAST ST. LOUIS v. ZEBLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

to revise the same,' and that the bonds upon which the judgments
of relator were rendered were issued under and ii pursuance of
said act.
"2d. That said city, by its said charter, is limited in its power
to tax for all purposes to an ' annual tax not exceeding one per
centum per annum' upon the assessed value of all the taxable
property in said city.
"3d. That said charter requires that a registry shall be kept of
all bonds issued, and that the city council shall levy and collect a
tax not exceeding three mills on the dollar upon each annual assessment made for general purposes, for the purpose of paying the
interest on such bonds, and to provide a sinking fund to liquidate
the same.
"4th. That said city has no power of taxation other than said
annual tax of one per cent. above mentioned, and no other source of
revenue except that derived from licenses, which amount annually
to the sum of $35,000, of which sum $16,000 is derived from the
licensing of dram-shops, and one-half of this sum is required by
said charter to be paid over to the treasurer of school township
No. 2 north, range 10 west, in St. Clair County, Illinois, for the
use and benefit of the public school fund.
"5th. That the assessed valuation of all the taxable property

in said city is $3,500,000.00.
"6th. That the bonded debt of said city is $300,000.
"7th. That petitioner's judgments aggregate the sum of
$55,000.00.
"8th. That said city has no money or surplus funds in its
treasury with which to pay petitioner's judgments, or any part
thereof, and no means of paying them except that derived from
taxation and licenses.
"9th. That said city has heretofore expended the sum of, to
wit, $75,000 per annum, to defray the current expenses of the city
government and the different departments thereof, but the court
finds that such sum is not necessary for the" present and future
years.
"1lth. And, finally, the court find from the evidence that the
$10,000 ordered to be appropriated from the seven-tenths of one
per cent. of the tax levy of 1883 and subsequent years, and applied
to the payment of said judgments, is not required to defray the
necessary current expenses of said city, and further-find that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

three thousand dollars ordered to be appropriated from the threetenths of one per cent. and applied to the payment of said judgments is petitioner's pro rata share of said three-tenths of said one
per cent."
The plaintiff in error has no reason to complain of so much
of the command of this judgment as requires it to levy and
collect an annual tax to the full amount of one per cent. upon
the assessed value of the taxable property subject thereto, and
to apply three thousand dollars out of three-tenths thereof to
the payment of the interest and principal of the relator's judgments. That levy is authorized by its charter, and that proportion of it is expressly pledged to the payment of the interest on,
and redemption of its bonded debt, and the particular sum mentioned and appropriated to the relator's judgments is only the
proper proportion to which they are entitled.
The further award of the annual sum of ten thousand dollars
to the relator, payable out of the remaining seven-tenths of the
one per cent. levy cannot be justified. That fund, by the terms
of the charter of the city, under which the bonds were issued,
isauthorized for the purpose of paying the necessary current
expenses of administration, not including payments on account
of the bonds of the municipal corporation. And admitting that
any surplus of such fund, in any year, remaining after payment
of such expenses, ought to be applied to the payment of the
interest and principal of the bonds, that could only be required
when such surplus should have been ascertained to exist. In
the present judgment the court has undertaken to foresee it,
and by mandamus to compel the city, by limiting its expenditures for its general purposes, to create the surplus which it
appropriates. But the question, what expenditures are proper
and necessary for the municipal administration, is not judicial;
it is confided by law to the discretion of the municipal authorities. No court has the right to control that discretion, much
less to usurp and supersede it. To do so, in a single year,
would require a revision of the details of every estimate and
expenditure, based upon an inquiry into all branches of the
municipal service ; to do it for a series of years, and in advance,

UNITED STATES v. ALEXANDER.
Statement of Facts.

is to attempt to foresee every exigency and to provide against
every contingency that may arise to affect thepublic necessities.
Because the judgment orders the payment to the relator of
the sum of ten thousand dollars, annually, out of the seventenths of the levy of one per cent., it is reversed with costs in
this court;
And the cause i8 remanded, witA direction to nter a judgment in conformity witkb tis opinion.

UNITED STATES v. ALEXANDER & Others.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
Argued January W2d,1884.-Decided February 4th, 1884.

Intera2 .Revenue.

'The Secretary of the Treasury, under authority derived from the act of May
27th, 1872, 17 Stat. 162, abated taxes on spirit in a bonded warehouse

destroyed by fire. The commissioner of internal revenue notified the
principal and sureties of the distillery warehouse bond of this decision:
H 'l, That this was a virtual cancellation of the bond.

This was an action at law brought on a distillery warehouse
bond against William S. Alexander and James H. Reynolds,
principals, and Edward S. Allen and Mfahlon C. Atkinson, their
sureties.
The defendants pleadMd that the taxes, to recover which the
suit was brought, had been abated by the Secretary of the
Treasury, pursuant to law, by an order of which the following
is a copy:
"TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
"WAsmnGTox, D. C., Aug. 5, 1875.

"Under authority conferred by act of Congress approved May
27, 1872, I hereby abate the taxes accruing on 8,252 gallons of
spirits, amounting to $5,776.46, which were destroyed by fire ont
the 6th or 7th day of March, 1875, while in the bonded warehouse

