CHEELY v. CLAYTON.
Statement of Facts.

Much stress was laid in the argument on the provision in the
act admitting Mnnesota into the Union, to the effect that "all
the laws of the United States which are not locally inapplicable
shall have the same force and effect within that State as in the
other States of the Union." This is disposed of by what has
already been said. As the act of 1850 related only to States
in existence when it was passed, it was locally inapplicable to
Minnesota until its provisions were actually extended to that
State by the act'of March 12th, 1860. It follows that the title
of the railroad company under the act of 1857 is superior to
that of the appellant. The lands were not at the time of the
passage of that act reserved to the United States for any purpose, and they were not, therefore, excepted from its operation.
The decree of the Circuit Court i8 ajf nned.

COEELY & Others v. CLAYTO1 .
3N ERROR TO THE CIOUIT COURT OF THE UITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
Submitted January 10th, 1884.-Decided March 10th, 1884.

Divorce.
A decree of divorce from the bond of matrimony, obtained by a husband in a
Territorial Court, upon notice to his absent wife by publication, insufficient

to support the jurisdiction to grant the divorce under the statutes of the
Territory, as repeatedly and uniformly construed by the highest court of the
State after its admission into the Union, is no bar to an action by the wife,
after the husband's death, in the Circuit Court of the United States,
to recover such an estate in his land as the local statutes give to a widow.

This was a writ of error sued out by Sarah A. Clayton and
he4 tenant, Richard lack6y, citizens of Colorado, to reverse a
judgment of the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Colorado, in an action brought against them by
Sarah A. Clayton, describing herself a citizen and resident of
Illinois, and widow and heir-at-law of James W. Clayton, deceased, to recover a tract of land in the County of Jefferson

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

and State of Colorado, and a lode, mining claim and quartz
mill in Gilpin County in that State, and the rents, issues and
profits thereof.
Trial by jury having been duly waived, the case was tried by
the court, which found the following facts:
"1st. That the plaintiff and James W. Clayton intermarried at
Wheeling, in the State of Virginia, on the 3d of May, 1855.
"2d. That on the first day of March, 1867, the said James W.
Clayton filed his bill for divorce against the said plaintiff in the
District Court of Gilpin County, Colorado Territory, -which was
a court of competent jurisdiction in that behalf ; that the cause
alleged in said bill as ground for divorce was that the said James
W. Clayton had in 1863 taken the defendant therein, the plaintiff
in this suit, to the State of Illinois, and that she had refused to
return to Colorado, and had refused to live with said James W.
Clayton, although he had often requested her to do so, and had
offered to furnish to her a home and sufficient maintenance in
Colorado.
"3d. That the plaintiff in this suit was, on the said first day.of
March, 1867, and thereafter until the present time, a citizen and
resident of the State of Illinois.
"14th. That at the time of filing said bill in the District Court
of Gilpin County, a summons was issued out of said curt,
directed to the sheriff of said Gilpin County to execute, commanding him to summon the said plaintiff to answer the said bill, which
summons "wasin all respects as required by the law of the Territory then in force regulating such matters.
"5th. That the sheriff of Gilpin County, on the sanie first day
March, 1867, returned the said summons into the said District
Court of Gilpin County with his indorsement thereon that the
defendant therein, the plaintiff in this suit, was not found in his
county.
" 6th. That a notice of the pendency of said suit in the said
District Court of Gilpin County was published in a weekly newspaper printed and published in the said Gilpin County, for four
weeks, beginning with and next after the first day of March, 1867;
and the first publication of said notice was more than thirty days
before the return day of said summons ; that the certificate showing such publication was to the effect that the first publication of

CHEELY v. CLAYTON .
Statement of Facts.
such notice was on the 1st of March, 1867, and the last publication
was on the 26th of March, 1867 ; that said certificate was filed in
said cause on the 22d of March, 1867.
"7th. That the defendant in the said divorce suit (the plaintiff
in this suit) was not notified of the pendency thereof except as
aforesaid.
"8th. That a decree was entered in the said suit, brought in the
said District Court of Gilpin County, on the 26th of June, 1868,
divorcing the said James W. Clayton from the defendant therein
(the plaintiff in this suit), which said decree recites at the comment thereof that it a.pearing to the court that due service had
been had upon said defendant before the 4th of April, 1867, and
that such service ha4 been made, according to the laws of the Territory of Colorado and the rules and practice of that court, more
than ten days previous to the first day of the April term of said
court, and that the defendant was called and defaulted.
"9th. That the said James W. Clayton and the defendant in
this suit, Sarah A. Clayton, intermarried in the year 1870, at and
within the State of Colorado.
"10th. That the said James W. Clayton departed this life about
the 10th of October, 1874, leaving the said plaintiff, and two children, issue of his marriage with the said plaintiff, him surviving.
"llth. That at and before the time of his death the said James
W. Clayton was seized in fee of the prenises described in the
complaint as situated in Jefferson County.
"12th. That at and before the time of his death the said James
W. Clayton was the owner of the premises described in the complaint as situated in the County of Gilpin, and in virtue of such
ownership was entitled to hold, occupy and possess the same.
"13th. That the value of the use and occupation of the said
premises since the 3d of April, 1877, and the rents, issues, and
profits thereof, as to the undivided one-half part thereof, is
seventeen-hundred and twenty-five dollars."
Upon the facts so found, the court made the following rulings and conclusions in matter of law:
"First. That because the said defendant therein (the plaintiff
in this suit) was not properly notified of the pendency of said

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
.Opinion of the Court.
suit in the District Court of Gilpin County, the decree of divorce
entered therein was and is void and of no effect.
"Second. That the said plaintiff in this suit, in virtue of her
marriage with the said James W. Clayton,. was and is, with the
surviving children before mentioned, his heir at law, and as such
is entitled to one-half part of his estate.
"Third. That the said plaintiff is the owner in fee of the undivided one-half part of the estate described in the complaint as
situated in Jefferson County.
"Fourth. That the said plaintiff is the owner and under the
laws of the State is entitled to hold, occupy and possess the undivided one-half part of the estate described in the complaint as
situated in Gilpin County.
"Fifth. That the said plaintiff is entitled to recover of the said
defendants, as.aud for the rents, issues, and profits of said premises, and damages for the detention thereof, the said sum of
seventeen hundred and twenty-five dollars."
Judgment was accordingly rendered for the plaintiff on
March 3d, 1879; and the defendants tendered a bill of exceptions, and sued out this writ of error. The plaintiff in error
Clayton having died since the entry of the case in this court,
her heirs have been made parties in her stead.
XM.

Willard Teller for plaintiffs in error.

.Mr. L. . RockweZ for defendant in error.
IEEn JUSTiCE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court. After
reciting the facts in the foregoing language, he continued:
The true question in this case is, which of the two Sarah A.
Claytons was the lawful wife of James W. Clayton at the time
of his death, and as such entitled by the statutes of Colorado to
inherit one-half of his real estate. Revised Statutes of 1867,
ch. 23; General Laws of 1877, ch. 26. In order to avoid the
*confusion arising from the identity ,of name, from their transposition on the docket of this court, and from the death of one
of them pending the writ 8f error, it will be convenient to designate them, as in the record of the court below, the defendant in error as the plaintiff, and the*plaintiff in error as the

CHEELY v. CLAYTOlN.
Opinion of the Court.

defendant. Mhfackey, the other plaintiff in error, occupied the
land as tenant only, and needs no further mention.
The courts of the State of the domicil of the parties doubtless have jurisdiction to decree a divorce, in accordance with
its laws, for any cause allowed by those laws, without regard
to the place of the marriage, or to that of the commission of the
offence for which the divorce is granted; and a divorce so obtained is valid everywhere. Story Conflict of Laws, § 230 a;
Cheever v. Wilson, 9 Wall. 108; Havey v. _Farnie, 8 App.
Cas. 43. If a wife is living apart from her husband without
sufficient cause, his domicil is in law her domicil; and, in the
absence of any proof of fraud or misconduct on his part, a
divorce obtained by him in the State of his domicil, after reasonable notice to her, either by personal service or by publication, in accordance with its laws, is valid, although she never
in fact resided in that State. Burkn? v. Shannon, 115 Mass.
438; H unt v. Hunt, 72 1N. Y. 218. But in order to make the
divorce valid, either in the State in which it is granted or in
another State, there must, unless the defendant appeared in the
suit, have been such notice to her as the law of the first State.
requires.
The decree of divorce set up in this case was obtained before
the admission of Colorado into the Union, and under the Revised Statutes of 1867 of the Territory of Colorado.
By chapter 26 of those statutes, relating to divorce and alimony, each District Court of the Territory, sitting as a court of
chancery, had jurisdiction, upon the like process, practice and
proceedings as in other cases in chancery, to decree a divorce
from the bond of matrimony to either husband or wife, for the
other's wilful desertion and absence for one year without reasonable cause.
Chapter 13 of the same statutes, relating to chancery proceedings, contained the following provisions: By §§ 5, 6, upon
the filing of the bill the clerk was to issue a summons, returnable at the next term after its date, directed to the sheriff of
the county in which the defendant resided, if a resident of the
Territory, requiring him to appear and answer the bill on the
return day of the summons. By § 7, service of the summons
VOL. CX-45

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

was to be made by reading it to the defendant, or leaving a
copy with one of his family at his usual place of abode, ten
days before the return day. By § 8, whenever any complainant filed in the clerk's office an affidavit showing that a defendant resided or had gone out of the Territory, the clerk was to
cause notice to be published in a newspaper in the Territory
for four successive weeks, the first publication to be made at
least thirty days* before the return day. At the end of that
section was this clause : "But this proceeding shall not dispense
with the usual exertion, on the part of the sheriff, to serve the
summons." By § 9, if thirty days intervened between the
filing of such affidavit and the return day, or if service of process was made, and the defendant did not appear on the return
day, the bill might be .taken for confessed. By § 10, if the
case was continued for want of due publication or service, the
like proceeding might be had at the next term as might have
been had at the first term. By § 11, if the summons was not
returned, executed, on the return day, the clerk might issue a
further summons. By § 12, the complainant might cause personal service to be made, on any defendant residing or being
out of the Territory, not less than thirty days before the commencement of the term at which he was required to appear;
and such service, proved by affidavit, was to be as effectual as
if made in the usual form within the limits of the Territory.
By § 15, any defendant, not summoned or notified to appear,
as above required, and against whom a final decree should be
entered, might within one year after notice to him in writing
of the decree, or within three years after the decree, if no such
notice should be given him, apply to the court and obtain a
hearing, as if he had seasonably appeared and no decree had
been made; and at the end of three years the decree, if not so
set aside, should be deemed and adjudged confirmed against
him, and the court might make such further order in the premises as should be requisite and jpst.
Under those statutes, as repeatedly and uniformly construed
by the higher courts of Colorado, when the sheriff returns the
summons on the day of its date, instead of keeping it in his
possession until the return day for the purpose of making the

CHEELY v. CLAYTON .
Opinion of the Court.

usual exertions to serve it, a notice by publication only will not
sustain a decree.
The Supreme Court of the Territory, at February Term,
1873, in PaZmer v. Cowdrey, 2 Colorado, 1, and Wi8e v.
Brooker, Tb. note, reversed decrees in ordinary proceedings in
chancery for such a defect, and assigned its reasons asfollows:
"The law intends that service of the summons shall be made
on the defendant, if he can be found within the jurisdiction
during, the life of the writ. If the defendant is not in the county
at the time the summons is placed in the hands of the officer, he
may come into the county before the return day, and if notice by
publication has been given, it is nevertheless the duty of the
officer to serve the summons, if he can find the defendant in his
bailiwick. To the performance of this duty it is necessary that
the officer should retain the summons in his hands until the return
day; for after the return of non inventus of course the officer
cannot obey the command of the writ. In the present case the
sheriff returned the summons more than one month before the return day, and thereafter he could not comply with the statute by
making the usual exertion to serve it. Whether the. defendant
came into the county after the return and during the life of the
writ, we do not know, nor can we be informed except by the return of the proper officer. By the return as it stands in the
record, it does not appear that service could not have been made
during the life of the writ, and the court had no authority to proceed upon notice by publication without such evidence." 2 Colorado, 6.
Since the admission of Colorado into the Union, the Supreme
Court of the State, at December Term, 1877, made a like decision, for the same reasons, and said:
"Without holding the writ until the return day and a proper
return accordingly, the publication of notice will not avail to confer jurisdiction upon the court, to render final decree upon the
petition." VFance v. .aroney, 4 Colorado, 47,.49.
Upon the strength, and as the necessary result, of those decisions, the Supreme Court of the State has twice held that

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

decrees of divorce, obtained under such circumstances, were
wholly void, for want of jurisdiction in the court that granted
them; that the provision of the statute, allowing a defendant,
on whom constructive service only had been made, to apply
within three years to set aside the decree, did not make the
decree valid when the constructive service was so defective-;
and that such a decree of divorce was no bar to an action by
the wife to recover as the husband's widow a share of his real
estate. One of the'cases in which it was so held, decided at
December Term, 1878, before the judgment of the Circuit
Court in: the case at bar, was an action by this plaintiff against
this defendant and the administrator of James W. Clayton, in
which the defendants set up the decree of divorce now in question. O7ayton v. Glaytan, 4 Colorado, 410. The other is a
very recent decision, not yet officially published. Israel v.
Arthur, 7 Colorado.

The fact that the statutes of the Territory, relating to
chancery proceedings, having been repealed by the Code of
Civil Procedure of the State of Colorado, were no longer in
force at the time of the last two decisions, does not lessen the
weight of those decisions of the highest court of Colorado as
evidence of the law of Colorado upon the construction of its
statutes affecting the status of citizens of the State, and the
title in, or right of possession of, land within its limits.
That James W. Clayton was 'a citizen of Colorado is necessarily implied in the record, and especially in the finding of the
court below that the Territorial court had jurisdiction to entertain his application for divorce; and it is the very foundation of
the argument in support of this writ of error. But the service in
the proceedings for divorce was exactly the same as was held
insufficient to support the jurisdiction of the court to make a
decree in each of the cases in the Colorado Reports, alove
cited. The notice and return, appearing of record in the proceedings for divorce, control the general recital in the decree
that due service had been made upon the defendant therein.
Gapi v. Page, 18 Wall 50; &ttemier v. Sulivan, 97 U. S.
444.
The decree of divorce being void for the insufficiency of the

CHEELY v. CLAYTON.
Opinion of the Court

service, and the status of Clayton and this plaintiff therefore
that of husband and wife, according to the law of Colorado, as
declared by its highest court, she was entitled as his widow to
the share which the law of that State gives to a widow in the
husband's land within the State.
We do not rest our judgment merely upon the ground that
the land of which possession is demanded is in Colorado; for,
if the parties had been domiciled and divorced elsewhere, the
question whether they were husband and wife at the time of
,his death might, even as affecting her right in his land in
Colorado, have been governed by the law of their domicil,
although the share which a widow should take in her husband's
laud would of course be determined by the law of the State in
which the land was.

See .feister v. -Moore, 96

7U.

S. 76; 1?os8

v. Ross, 129 Mass. 243, 247, 248, and cases cited.
lNor do we give any weight to the finding of the court below
that the wife, at the time of the proceedings for divorce, was a
citizen and resident of the State of Illinois; for it is hard to
see how, if she unjustifiably refused to live with her husband
in Colorado, she could lawfully acquire in his lifetime a separate
domicil in another State; or how, if the Territorial court had
jurisdiction to render the decree of divorce, and did render it
upon the ground of her unlawful absence from him, the finding
of the court below could consist with the fact so adjudged in
the decree of divorce.
However that may be, the wife, since the husband's death,
had the right to elect her own domicil, and at the time-of
bringing the present action was a citizen of Illinois, and as such
entitled to sue in the Circuit Court of the United States. And
the ground upon which we affirm the judgment of that court
is, that by the law of Colorado, as declared by the Supreme
Court of the State, the decree of divorce was void, for want of
the notice to her required by the local statutes.
There could hardly be a better illustration of the fitness and
justice of this conclusion than is afforded by the facts of this
case. To reverse the judgment of the Circuit Court would be
to leave the status of the plaintiff, as widow and heir of James
W. Clayton, established by the State court as to one parcel of

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

land, and denied by this court as to other lands within the
same State. It was said in argument, indeed, that part of the
land sought to be recovered was the same in both actions; but
this does not appear upon the record before us.
Jwudmena afflrmed.

FREEDM1AN'S

SAYINGS & TRUST COMPATY v.
EARLE.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUfEL.
Argued February 1st, 1884.-Decided March 10th, 1834.

Judgment Lien on Equity of Redemption.
It was decided in XorweU v. First National Bank, 91 U. S. 857, that in the
District of Columbia, following the laws of Maryland, judgments at law
were not liens upon the interest of judgment debtors who had previously
conveyed lands to a trustee in trust for the payment of a debt secured
thereby. It is now decided that the creditor of such judgment debtor, by
filing his bill in equity to take an account of the debt secured by the trust
deed, and to have the premises sold subject thereto and the proceeds of the
sale applied to the satisfaction of the judgment, may obtain a priority of lien
upon the equitable interest of the judgment debtor in the property, subject
to payment of the debt.
The doctrine of equitable assets considered and the English and American
cases reviewed.

The appellee recovered a judgment against Robert P. Dodge
in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia on January
4th, 1878, for $7,700, with interest and costs, which was revived April 2d, 1879, and on which a fl. fa. was issued April
9th, 1879, and returned nuik/ bonZ.
On June 1st, 1877, Dodge, the judgment debtor, being then
seized in fee simple of certain real estate in the city of Georgetown in this district, conveyed the same by deed duly recorded
to Charles H. Cragn, Jr., in trust, to secure to JNannie B.
Blackford payment of the sum of $2,000, with interest, according to certain promissory notes given therefor, and which were
indorsed to Charles H. Cragin.
On April 10th, 1879, the appellee filed his bill in equity, to

