OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

announced by the Supreme Court of Illinois in Johon v.
People.
We are of opinion that no error was committed in dismissing the bill, so far as it questioned the authority of the State
officers to assess, levy, and extend taxes in payment of the
bonds held by the appellee Graves.
The decree is, consequently, affirmed.
It isso ordered.

ZAINE & Another v. SOFFE.
APPEAL FROM TE

cIRcurr COURT OF THE UNMID

STATES

OR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued October 24th, 18S3.-Decided January21st,
1834.

Evidence-Patent.
1. A patent was issued June 22d, 1865, to one Jennings (and subsequently
assigned to appellants), for an improvement in self-acting cocks and
faucets. The first claim was for a "screw follower H in combination
with the valve of a self-closing faucet, substantially as set forth, and
for the purpose described." This screw follower was a round stem
"provided with a coarse screw thread or threads." It projected upward
through the faucet, and terminated' in a handle for the purpose of turning it downward to let on 'the water. At its lower end it rested upon a
valve. which was supported-by a spiral spring, the object of this spring
being to keep the valve closed when the pressure was removed. It appearing that for ten or fifteen years before the date of J.'s patent B. had
manufactured and sold faucets in which an inclined plane or cam was
used as a means of producing the result upon the valve stem which was
produced by J.'s screw: Held, That J.'s 1st claim must be limited to a
screw follower, and could not be construed to embrace an arrangement
for moving the valve.
2. Since the decision in Loom Company v. Higgins, 105 U. S. 580, it is Held,
That under a general denial of the patentee's priority of invention, evidence of prior knowledge and use, taken without objection, is competent
at the final hearing, not only as demonstrative of the state of the art,
and therefore competent to limit the construction of the patent to the
precise form of parts and mechanism described and claimed, but also on
the question of the validity of the patent.

Bill in equity, setting forth an infringement of a patent for

ZANE v. SOFFE.
Opinion of the Court.

self-closing cocks or faucets, and praying for a perpetual injunction, for an account for the payment of damages, and for
a temporary injunction. Answer, denying the infringement
and averring in substance that for ten or fifteen years prior to
plaintiff's patent, a mechanism similar to that described in it
had been in public use in New York and Brooklyn for purposes
similar to those set forth in it. Decree below for defendant,
from which plaintiffs appealed.
.7Ifr. Thomas William Clarke for appellants.
.Xr. leni-y P. Wells for appellee.
M. JVSTicE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This writ was brought by Zane and Roach, as assignees of
one Nathaniel Jenkins, against the defendant, Soffe, for infringing (as charged) certain letters patent granted to said
Jenkins, June 22d, 1865, for an improvement in self-acting
cocks or faucets.
The general features of the invention patented, so far as material to be considered, may be described as follows: The valve
is situated in a chamber below the valve-seat, where the water
is introduced by the induction-pipe and is kept in place against
the valve-seat by a spiral spring underneath resting on the
bottom of the chamber; on its upper side the valve is connected
by a swivel with a stem which projects upward through the
top of the faucet, where it is provided with a handle by which
it may be turned; a screw is formed on the upper part of the
stem, by which, when the stem is turned by the hand, it is
forced downward and pushes the valve from its seat, thus permitting the water to flow out of the cock; on letting the handle
go, the spiral spring below the valve, aided by the pressure of
the water, forces the valve back to its seat, and the flow of
water is stopped. In the specification the stem is called a
screw follower. The patent has two claims, only the first of
which is claimed to be infringed by the defendant, and this is
in the following words, to wit:

"What I claim as new and desire to secure by letters patent is,

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.
first, the screw follower H in combination with the valve of a
self-closing faucet, substantially as set forth, and for the purpose
described."
The defendant answered the bill, denying that Jenkins was
the first inventor of the thing patented, denying infringement,
and setting up a patent granted to defendant himself on the
10th of 1fay, 1874, under and according' to which the faucets
manufactured by him were made, and which he alleges are no
infringement of the Jenkins patent. The answer specifically
refers to only one patent as anticipating the supposed invention
of Jenkins, namely, a patent granted to one Frederick H[.
Bartholomew, in August, 1846, in which (as alleged) all the
essential elements of the faucet patented to Jenkins are described and exhibited. The answer, however, contains the
following general averment:
"This defendant, further answering, denies that the patent
granted said Nathaniel Jenkins is valid ; and alleges that prior to
the invention described in said patent, a screw and spring, worked
in opposition to each other, had been used to open and close
faucets and hydrants, in which faucets and hydrants the screw
did all the work of opening the faucets and hydrants, and the
spring did all, or most, of the work of closing the valve of the
faucets and hydrants. That faucets and hydrants operated in
the above manner had been in public and general use and for sale in
the cities of New York and Brooklyn, and in various other places
long prior to, and at least fifteen years before, the date of the
alleged invention of Nathaniel Jenkins ; and defendant is advised
and believes that, by reason of said prior public use and sale, the
patent granted to said Jenkins is invalid."
This answer was not excepted to, and evidence was given by
the defendant, without objection, showing that a large number
of faucets and hydrants were made by Bartholomew and
publcly used in the city of New York several years before the
issuing of the patent sued on, differing in some respects from
the specific device described in Bartholomew's patent, referred
to in the answer, but relied on as anticipating the alleged in-

ZANE v. SOFFE.
. Opinion of the Court.

vention of Jenkins, or, at least, as containing all the essential
elements of the faucets manufactured by the defendant.
The court below held that this evidence was competent to
show the state of the art at the time Jenkins's patent was
granted, and might be used for the purpose of limiting its construction, but not for the purpose of showing such a previous
knowledge and use of the invention as would affect the validity
of the patent. But since the decision of this case in the Circult Court, we have held, in Loom Company v. Higgins, 105
U. S. 580, that under a general denial of the patentee's priority
of invention, evidence of prior knowledge and use taken with
out objection is competent at the final hearing on the question
of the validity of the patent. And, since in the present case
there was neither an exception to the answer nor any objection
to the evidence, except as to a single faucet marked Defendant's
Exhibit NTo. 2 (which may be laid out of the case), we think
that the remaining evidence of prior knowledge and use might
well have been considered by the court on the question of priority as affecting the validity of the patent.
Viewing the evidence, however, with the court below, only
as demonstrative of the state of the art, and therefore competent to limit the construction of the patent to the precise
form of parts and mechanism described and claimed therein, it
was amply sufficient to sustain the decree.
Self-closing cocks and faucets were no new thing in June,
1865, when the patent of Jenkins was issued. Bartholomew
had manufactured and sold them for a period of ten or fifteen
years before that time. As early as 1854, he had made and
sold faucets in which the valve was kept on its seat by the pressure of a spiral spring, and when a flow of water was desired,
the valve was lifted from its seat against the force of the spring
by means of a stem, operated by a collar or cross-piece moving
around on a fixed circular inclined plane or cam, having the
same effect as a screw; when the handle, or thumb-piece,
attached to the collar was liberated or let go, the spiral spring
would force the valve back to its seat, and the flow of water
would be stopped.
The improvement of Jenkins (or what was patented to him

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

as such), as we have seen, was the employment of a screw on
the upper part of the valve stem, in lieu of the circular cam or
inclined plane, to force the valve from its seat. This valve
stem, called by him the screw follower, forced the valve not
only against the pressure of the spring, but against that of the
water, both of which were exerted in carrying the valve back
to its seat as soon as the force operating upon the screw was
removed. Now, in view of the fact that an inclined plane or
cam was previously used by Bartholomew as a means of producing the same result upon the valve stem as that produced
by the screw made upon it by Jenkins, it is clear that the claim
of the latter in his patent, of "the screw follower H in combination with the valve of a self-closing faucet, substantially as set
forth," must be limited to the precise form of mechanism designated. It must be limited to a screw follower, and cannot be
construed to embrace a cam arrangement for moving the
valve. Whether it is also to be limited to a valve which moves
to its seat concurrently with, and not against, the pressure of
the water, it is not necessary to determine. The limitation to
the screw is sufficient to determine this case. In the faucet
manufactured by the defendant the screw is not used, but the
old cam device is employed for lifting the valve from its seat.
It is true that the cam, instead of being placed at the top of
the stem, on the outside of the faucet, as was done by Bartholomew, is placed at its lower extremity, by the valve, inside of
the faucet; but this does not change the principle of its construction or operation. We concur with the court below in
holding that, construed as the patent of Jenkins must be in
view of the state of the art at the time of its issue, the defendant has not infringed it, and the bill of complaint was properly
dismissed.
T e decree of the Circit Court dAwiising the bill is, therefore, affirmed.

