WHITE v. CROW.
Syllabus.

more than a year after Bacon & Co. had failed in business
and made an assignment for the benefit of their creditors,
it amended its petition in the suit brought on the note of
Bacon & Co. for $6,616.35, by averring that the note of
Weyand & Jung was taken as a payment on the note sued
on in that case, and demanding judgment for only $1,616.35,
the balance due after allowing the credit. According to the
version of the appellant's witnesses, the understanding was
that the credit should be made on February 7th, 1870, when
the note of Weyand & Jung was handed to the Merchants'
Bank. By the omission of the Merchants' Bank on that day
to credit the proceeds of the note of Weyand & Jung on the
claim of appellant, Bacon & Co. were deprived of all the advantages, to secure which the note was left with the bank.
The appellant is bound by the acts and omissions of its
agent. Having failed in 1870 to use this note for the only
purpose for which it was placed in the possession of its agent,
it cannot now exact payment thereof as a bona)Fde holder.
Under the circumstances of this case we are of opinion that
there was no delivery of the note of Weyand & Jung to the
appellant, and that no title passed to it. As the controversy is
between the original parties, and the appellant is not an innocent holder, it is not entitled to the relief prayed for in its bill.
The decree of the Circuit Court by which the bill was dismissed was therefore right, and must be

WHITE v. CROW & Others.
"PPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
Submitted January 4th, 1884.-Decided January218, 1884.

Colorado-Eecution-Tudgment-Pedemption.
When, in Colorado, the agent of an absent defendant, upon whom process had

been duly served, appeared and consented to the entry of a judgment
against the defendant before the time for filing answer had expsired, and no

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.
fraud was shown: Held, On an attempt to attack the judgment collaterally
by reason of entry before the time for answering had expired, that the
court would make all necessary presumptions to sustain it.
When a judgment creditor in Colorado, prior in lien, received from the sherif
a certificate of sale of real estate sold to the creditor on execution issued on
the judgment to satisfy the debt, which certificate recited that the property
was subject to an execution issued on a judgment which was in fact junior
in date to that under which it was sold: Held, That the recital was a mistake of which a person claiming title under a coeiveyance from the judgment
debtor and redemption from the junior judgment could not take advantage.
In order to obtain equitable relief against a judgment alleged to have been
fraudulently obtained it must be averred and shown that there is a valid
defence on the merits.

This was a suit in equity. The facts disclosed by the pleadings and evidence were as follows: From September 1st, 1880,
until December 1st, 1882, the Brittenstine Silver Mining Company, a corporation organized under the laws of the State of
New York, was the owner of twelve mining claims and a tunnel site situate in Chaffee County, in the State of Colorado.
These claims were in a group, and some of them intersected and
overlapped each other, and the tunnel site extended across
them. John B. Henslee was the authorized agent of the company under the laws of Colorado, upon whom service of process against the company could be made, and he was also a
'large stockholder therein, and attended, without compensation,
to some of the business of the company.
The company became embarrassed and suits were brought
against it by its creditors in January, 1882. It owed Henslee
$1,500 for money advanced to it by him. Henslee assigned
his claim to the defendant Joseph R. Crow, in part payment
of money due from him to Crow, who brought suit on the claim
in the County Court of Lake County, Colorado. The summons
was served on Henslee, as State agent, on January 9th, 1882,
and four days thereafter he appeared in open court, and, as the
record of that case states, as general agent of the company,
consented to the submission of the case, and judgment was
thereupon rendered against the company in- favor of Crow.
A transcript of this judgment was filed with the recorder of
Chaffee County on January 17th, 1882, and thereupon it be-

WHITE v. CROW.
Statement of Facts.

came a lien upon the property of the company in that county,
and was the oldest and best lien thereon.
George M. Robison recovered a judgment against the company in the same court for $346.35. It became a lien on January 20th, 1882, and was the second lien on the property of the
company. Henslee gave notice of these judgments to the
officers of the company in New York, and, upon the promise
that the company would pay them, the judgment creditors
agreed to a stay of execution, and, in consequence, no execution was issued on either of them until four months after their
rendition.
On June 17th, 1882, the property of the Brittenstine Mining
Company was sold to Joseph R. Crow for the amount of the
judgment in his favor on an execution issued thereon, and was
again sold June 8th, 1882, to George M. Robison for the
amount of the judgment in his favor and upon an execution
issued thereon. Certificates of sale were delivered to each of
the purchasers and duly recorded in the recording office of
Chaffee County. The certificates specified the time within
which the property could be redeemed, which was six months
from the date of the sales respectively, to wit, from the sale to
Crow'on December 17th, 1882, and from the sale to Robison
on January 8th, 1883. The certificate given to Crow stated
that the sale to him was subject to the sale to Robison.
The officers and directors of the company in New York received notice from Henslee of theae judgments and sales, and
made efforts without success to raise money to pay off the liens.
The judgments and certificates of sale were bought up by the
defendants, L. C. Wilson, H. M. Noel, J. L. Loker, W. N.
Loker, James Streeter, and 0. H. Simons. They appear to be
the only defendants who have any interest in this suit.
While the events above mentioned in reference to this property were happening in Colorado, the Supreme Court of the
City and County of New York, in a suit therein pending
against the company, on May 29th, 1882, appointed a receiver,
to whom, on October 23d, 1882, the company, by order of the
court, conveyed all its property. At a sale made by the receiver about December 1st, 1882, the appellant, John E. White,

OCTOBER TERMI, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

became the purchaser of the property of the company in
Chaffee County, Colorado, and on December 5th, received a
deed therefor from the receiver, and on December Gth, a deed
from the company. At the time of his purchase 'White knew
of the liens against and sales of the property, and that the time
for redemption was about to expire. He redeemed the property from the sale to Robison before the time for redemption
expired, and paid off two judgments junior to those above mentioned. He, however, failed and refused to redeem the property from the sale to Crow within the time limited for redemption. After the time had expired White offered to redeem
from the Crow sale, but the appellees refused to allow the property to be redeemed.
Thereupon, on February 12th, 1883, the appellant, John E.
White, filed the bill in this case, to which Henslee, Crow, and
the above-mentioned purchasers of said judgments, and Robert
Ray, the sheriff of Chaffee County, were made parties. The
bill prayed that Ray, the sheriff of Chaffee County, might be
enjoined from making a deed to the owners of the certificate
of sale issued to Joseph R. Crow, and that the certificate might
be declared null and void, "and thai upon payment by the complainant of the amounts found due to Crow on his claim against
the property he might be compelled to execute a deed of release to him for said property.
The only questions controverted on the final hearing were
whether or not the judgment in favor of Crow and the certificate issued upon the sale made to him should be declared void,
and whether the sheriff of Chaffee County should be enjoined
from making a deed to him for the property in question, and
whether the owners of the judgment and lien of Crow should,
upon payment thereof, execute deeds of release to the appellant
for said property.
The Circuit Court decided all these questions in the negative,
and directed that the defendants in interest should repay to the
complainant the sums paid by him to discharge the liens upon
said property, and, upon such payment, decreed that the bill
should be dismissed. This appeal brought that decree up for
review.

WHITE v. CROW.
Opinion of the Court.
.3fr. C'. EdgarSmith and If'.
Zr'. L.

M.

L. S. 1)ixon for appellant.

. Buck and -Mr. John

JusTiOE WooDs

. Pope for appellees.

delivered the opinion of the court.

The first assignment of error which we shall notice is, that
the Circuit Court erred in not declaring the judgment recovered by Joseph R. Crow against the Brittenstine Silver Mining
Company void, first, because fraudulently obtained, and, secondly, because the court was without jurisdiction to render it.
We have been unable to find in the record any support for
the contention that the judgment was fraudulently obtained.
All the alleged facts set out in the bill on which the charge of
fraud is based are clearly disproven by the testimony. But if
the Brittenstine Silver Mining Company were itself assailing the
judgment as fraudulently procured, it could not have it enjoined
in equity unless it could aver and prove that it had a good defence upon the merits. Hair v. Lowe, 19 Ala. 224; Pearcev.
Olney, 20 Conn. 544; Ableman v. Both, 12 Wis. 81. There is
no pretence that the company had any defence. It has never
complained of the judgment. On the contrary, it promised to
pay it provided execution were stayed, and upon its promise of
payment execution was stayed. Much less, therefore, does it
lie in the mouth of appellant to complain of fraud in the obtaining of the judgment. On this point he has no standing in
court.
The complainant insists, however, that the judgment was
void because, on the fourth day after service of summons, and
before the time for filing the answer had expired, Henslee appeared in court and consented that judgment might be entered
in favor of Crow, against the Brittenstine Mining Company,
for the sum due on the obligation upon which the suit was
brought, and judgment was thereupon accordingly entered.
The Civil Code of Colorado, ยง 46, provides as follows:
"From the time of service of summons in a civil action the
court shall be deemed to have acquired jurisdiction."
The summons in this case gave full and particular notice to

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

the defendant of the cause of action. It was served, as clearly
appears from the return, in the county where the suit was
brought. It was served on Henslee as the person appointed to
receive service of process for the company. It is not pretended
that it was not served in the county where the company had
its principal office, or where its principal business was carried
on, or that Henslee was not the right person on whom service
should have been made. The service was regular and effectual
The court, therefore, had jurisdiction of the parties. It had
jurisdiction of the subject-matter, and the judgment which it
rendered was within the jurisdiction conferred on it by law
The judgment which it rendered recited that Henslee was the
general agent of the company, and as such consented that
judgment might be entered againt the defendant. The law,
therefore, when the judgment is questioned, presumes that the
court was satisfied by proof that the agent had authority to
give the consent of the company to the rendition of the judgment. The fact that he was such general agent, and authorized to consent to the entry of judgment, is not denied in the
bill, nor is there any proof in the record to show that he was
not the agent of the company, fully authorized to consent to
the rendition of the judgment.
But if he was not such agent, the question arises whether the
rendition of the judgment before the time for filing defendant's
answer had expired renders the judgment void. We are of
opinion that it does not; that its rendition was simply erroneous
and nothing more. The court having jurisdiction to render
the judgment, and having rendered it, the law) when the judgment is collaterally attacked, will make all presumptions
necessary to sustain it. Grigmm'8 Lessee v. Asor, 2 How. 319.
The defendant being in court, was bound to take notice of its
proceedings, and might have corrected the error at any time
during the term. It did not move to set the judgment aside.
It filed no answer. The presumption, therefore, which the law
makes is either that it consented to a submission of the case
before the time for answer expired, or that it subsequently
waived the error by not seeking to correct it.

WHITE v. CROW.
Opinion of the Court.
"It is of no avail," said the court in Cooper v. -Reynolds, 10
Wall. 308, "to show that there are errors in the record, unless
they be such as prove that the court had no jurisdiction of the
case, or that the judgment rendered was beyond its power. This
principle has been often held by this court and by all courts, and
it takes rank as an axiom of law."
And in Cornett v. WlTliams, 20 Wall. 226, it was declared
that
"The settled rule of law is, that jurisdiction having attached in
the original case, everything done within the power of that jurisdiction, when collaterally questioned, is to be held conclusive of
the rights of the parties, unless impeached for fraud."
See, also, Xiemp'8 lessee v. Kennedy, 5 Cranch, 173; Thomp-

son v. Tolmie, 2 Pet. 157; -Voorhees v. Bank of the United
States, 10 Pet. 449; Grignon?'8 lessee v. Astor, 2 How. 319;
Florentine v. Barton, 2 Wall. 210;
foGoon v. Scales, 9 Wall.
23; Glover v. Holman, 3 Heisl 519; West v. Willicmson, 1
Swan (Tenn.), 277.
The judgment, therefore, cannot be declared void. It could
not be successfully attacked in this collateral way even by the
defendant, much less by one not a party to it. We must assume
the judgment to be valid and binding until reversed in a direct

proceeding.
The next contention of the appellant is that the sale made to
Crow under his judgment is void because the property was sold
in bulk and not in parcels.. This contention is based on the

statute of Colorado, which provides as follows:
"When any property, real or personal, shall be taken in execution, if such property is susceptible of division, it shall be sold in
such quantities as may be necessary to satisfy such execution and
costs." General Laws, Chap. 53, sec. 1416, page 525.

There are two sufficient answers to this objection to the sal.
In the first place, there is not a word of proof in the record to
show that any part of the property would have sold for a sum
sufficient to satisfy the execution and costs.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Cour.

On the contrary, the record shows that the entire property
was sold on execution four different times during the year 1882,
and that in no instance did it bring more than the debt and
costs, and that it brought more at the sale which is attacked in
this case than at any of the others. At one sale it only brought
$346 ; at another it only brought half the debt. At every sale
it was bought in by the judgment creditor.
In the second place, the evidence shows that at the sale
which is complained of in the bill the sheriff first offered the
claims singly and separately and received no bids. He then
offered and sold them en 2nasse.
These facts make it unnecessary to inquire whether the objection to a sale en masse could be successfully made after the
time for redemption had passed, where both the party making
the objection and the party claiming under the sale were
strangers to the judgment.
The next contention of appellant is that the certificate issued
by the sheriff to Joseph R. Crow on the sale made to him June
1'Tth, 1882, recited that said sale was made "subject to an execution in favor of George Xvii. Robison" and that appellant
having redeemed from what was thus recited to be the elder
lien, the title thus acquired by him would be superior to that
based on what he had reason to suppose was the younger lien
of Crow.
It is not disputed that in fact the lien of the judgment in
favor of Crow was the older lien. It became a lien on January
17th, 1882, when the transcript was filed in the office of the
recorder of Chaffee County. ยง 215.Civil Code of Colorado. The
levy of the Robison attachment was not recorded until January
20th, 1882; and it acquired a lien upon the property on that
day. Civil Code, ยง 98. The sale on the judgment in favor of
Crow took place June 17th, 1882, the sale on the judgment
in favor of Robison took place on July 8th, 1882. These matters were all of public record, and were made such that all parties interested might have notice. The appellant cannot derive
any advantage from the mistake in the sheriff's certificate,
which the public records of the county corrected, and for which
neither Crow nor his vendees were responsible.

WHTE v. CROW.
Opinion of the Court.

But even if the judgment in favor of Robison had been the
senior judgment, it would not aid the case of appellant. As
grantee of the defendant company he would be required to
redeem from all the sales. He could not acquire title to the
property by redeeming it from a sale on the oldest lien, for in
Colorado a redemption annuls the sale. The General Laws of
Colorado, chap. 52, page 527, ยง 1419, provide as follows:
"On such sum," the redemption money, "being paid as aforesaid" to the purchaser or sheriff, "the said sale and the certificate
thereupon granted shall be null and void."

The appellant might as well claim that the payment of the
oldest encumbrance on real estate discharged all the subsequent
encumbrances.
We are of opinion that there is no merit in the appellant's
case. The judgment in favor of Crow against the Brittenstine
Silver Mining Company was a valid judgment, rendered on a
just demand ; it was obtained without fraud; it has never been
assailed, directly or indirectly, by the judgment debtor. The
sale made under it was, so far as the record shows, fair and
regular; the time within which the property sold could be redeemed was shown by the pubic records, it was Vell known to
the agent of appellant. The appellant failed and refused to
redeem the property within the time limited by law, and thereby lost his right to redeem, unless he is able to show some fraud
or wrong on the part of the defendants by which a redemption
was prevented. Without such showing he is not entitled to
relief in equity. Hay v. Baugh, 77 Ill. 500. Nothing of the
kind has been shown. We find no error in the record.

The decree of the Circuit Court is affrmed.

