EX PARTE YARBROUGH.
Syllabus.

the enforcement of rights which are not -dependent upon acts
of Congress or upon the Constitution, is a matter purely of
State regulation, which the federal courts must follow when
such actions are transferred to them. The object of the Constitution in extending the judicial power of the United States
to controversies between citizens of different States, was to
avoid, what was at the time of its adoption apprehended, the
existence of State attachments and State prejudices, which
might injuriously affect the administration of justice in the
State courts against non-residents. To carry out this purpose
the Judiciary Act provides for the removal to a Federal court
of actions commenced in a State court involving such controversies. It has no other object; and the removal in no respect
affects the rights of the parties, either the claims on the one
hand or the defences on the other. Only the tribunal and, in
some respects, the modes of procedure are changed. The limitations prescribed by the State law govern in both tribunals.

EX PARTE YARBROUGH, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
Argued January 23d, 24th, 1884.-Decided March 3d, 1884.

Contitutina Law-Indictment-,Turisdiction.
This court has no general authority to review on error or appeal the judgments
of Circuit Courts in cases within their criminal jurisdiction.
When a prisoner is held under sentence of a court of the United States in a

matter wholly beyond the jurisdiction of that court, it is within the authority
of the Supreme Court, when the matter is properlybrought to its attention,
to inquire into it, and to discharge the prisoner if it be found that the matter was not within the jurisdiction of the court below.
Errors of law committed by a Circuit Court which passed sentence upon a
prisoner, cannot be inquired into in a proceeding on an application for
Wzbea corpus to test the jurisdiction of the court which passed sentence.

An indictment which charges in the first count that the defendants conspired
to intimidate A. B., a citizen of African descent, in the exercise of his right
to vote for a member of the Congress of the United States, and that in the
execution of that conspiracy they beat, bruised, wounded, and otherwise

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.
maltreated him ; and in the second count that they did this on account of
his race, color, and previous condition of servitude, by going in disguise and
assaulting him on the public highway and on his own premises, contains a
sufficient description of an offence embraced witbin the provisions of
§§ 5508, 5520 Rev. Stat.
In construing the Constitution of the United States, the doctrine that what
is implied is as much a part of the instrument as what is expressed is a
necessity by reason of the inherent inability to put all derivative powers
into words.
4 of article L of the Constitution, which declares that " the times, places, and
manner of holding elections for senators and representatives shall be prescribed in each State by the legislature thereof, but the Congress may at any
time make or alter such regulations, except as to the place of c.hoonsing
senators," adopts the State qualification as the federal qualification for the
voter; but his right to vote is based upon the Constitution and not upon the
State law, and Congress has the constitutional power to pass laws for the
free, pure and safe exercise of this right.
Although it is true that the Fifteenth Amendment gives no affirmative right
to the negro to vote, yet there are cases, some of which are stated by the
court, in which it substantially confers that right upon him. Uniktd &te
v. Rmeese, 92 U. S. 214, qualifle4 and explained.

Petition for a writ of Au3eas cor = for the release of several
persons convicted, sentenced and imprisoned for conspiracy to
intimidate a person of African descent from voting at an
election for a member of Congress. The facts making the case
appear in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Henry B. Tomnpki

for petitioner.

X1r'. SolicitoT-GeneraZopposing.
M. JIUSICE
delivered the opinion of the court.
This case originates in this court by an application for a writ
of habea8 corpu on the part of Tasper Yarbrough and seven
other persons, who allege that they are confined by the jailer
of Fulton County, in the custody of the United States marshal
for the' Northern District of Georgia, and that the trial, conviction, and sentence in the Circuit Court of the United States
for that district, under which they are held, were illegal, null
and void.

The court, on the filing of this petition, issued a rule on the

EX PARTE YARBROUGH.
Opinion of the CourL

marshal, or on any person in whose custody the prisoners
might be found, to show cause why the writ of habeas corpus
should not issue for their release.
It appears, by the returns made to this rule, that the sentence
of the court which ordered their imprisonment in the Albany
penitentiary in the State of New York, at hard labor ior a term
of two years, has been so far executed that they are now in
that prison. The rule having been "served on John NfcEwan,
superintendent of. the penitentiary, he makes return that he
holds the prisoners by virtue of the sentence of the Circuit
Court for the Northern District of Georgia, and annexes to his
return a transcript of the proceeding in that court.
As this return is precisely the same that the superintendent
would make if the writ of habeas corpus had been served on
him, the coint here can determine the right of the prisoners to
be released on this rule to show cause, as correctly and with
more convenience in the administration of justice, than if the
prisoners were present under the writ in the custody of the
superintendent; and such is the practice of this court.
That this court h.as -nogeneral authority to review on error or
appeal the judgments of the Circuit Courts of the United States
in cases within their criminal jurisdiction is beyond question;
but it is equally well settled thatwhen a prisoner is held under
the sentence of any court of the United States in regurd to a
matter wholly beyond or without the jurisdiction of that court,
it is not only within the authority of the Supreme Court, but it
is its duty to inquire into the cause of commitment when the
matter is properly brought to its attention, and if found to be
as charged, a matter of which such a court had no jurisdiction,
to discharge a prisoner from confiement. Exparte Kearney,
7 Wheat. 38; .x parts Wegs, 18 How. 307; Exaparte Lange,
18 Wall. 163; .xparte Parks,93 U. S. 18.
It is, however, to be carefully observed that this latter principle does not authorize the court to convert the writ of habeas
corpu into a writ of error, by which the errors of law committed by the court that passed the sentence can be reviewed
here; for if that court had jurisdiction of the party and of the
offence for which he was tried, and has not exceeded its

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

powers in the sentence which it pronounced, this court can
inquire no further.
This principle disposes of the argument made before us on
the insufficiency of the indictments under which the prisoners
in this case were tried.
Whether the indictment sets forth in comprehensive terms
the offence which the statute describes and forbids, and for
which it prescribes a punishment, is in every case a question of
law, which must necessarily be decided by the court in which
the case originates, and is therefore clearly within its jurisdiction.
Its decision on the conformity of the indictment to the
provisions of the statute may be erroneous, but if so it is an
error of law made by a court acting within its jurisdiction,
which could be corrected on a writ of error if such writ was
allowed, but which cannot be looked into on a writ of habea
co2-pa limited to an inquiry into the existence of jurisdiction
on the part of that court.
This principle is decided in Exparte Tobi Matkns,3 Pet.
203, and Bxparte Park8,93 U. S. 18.
This, however, leaves for consideration the more important
question-the one mainly relied on by counselfor petitionerswhether the law of Congress, as found in the Revised Statutes
of the United States, under which the prisoners are held, is
warranted by the Constitution, or being without such warrant,
is null and void.
If the law which defines the offence and prescribes its punishnent is void, the court was without jurisdiction and the
prisoners must ba discharged.
Though several different sections of the Revised Statutes are
brought into the discussion as the foundation of the indictments
found in the record, we think only two of them demand our
attention here, namely, sections 5508 and 5520. They are in
the following language:
"Sac. 5508. If two or more persons conspire to injure, oppress,
threaten, or intimidate any citizen in the free exercise or enjoyment
of any right or privil6ge secured to him by the Constitution or laws
of the United States, or because of his having so exercisedthe sajle,

EX PARTE YARBROUGH.
Opinion of the Court.

or if two or more persons go in disguise on the highway, or on the
premises of another, with intent to prevent or hinder his free
exercise or enjoyment of any right or privilege so secured, they
shall be fined not more than five thousand dollars and imprisoned
not more than ten years; and shall, moreover, be thereafter ineligible to any office or place of honor, profit, or trust created by
the Constitution or laws of the United States.
"SEc. 5520. If two or more persons in any State or Territory
conspire to prevent by force, intimidation, or threat, any citizen
who is lawfully entitled to vote, from giving his support or
advocacy, in a legal manner, toward or in favor of the election of
any lawfully qualified person as an elector for President or Vice
President, or as a member of the Congress of the United States,;
or to injure any citizen in person or property on account of such
support or advocacy; each of such persons shall be punished by
a fine of not less than five hundred nor more than five thousand
dollars, or by imprisonment, with or without hard labor, not less
than six months nor more than six years, or by both such fine and
imprisonment."
The indictments, four in number, on which petitioners were
tried, charge in each one, all of the defendants with a conspiracy under these sections, directed against a different person
in each indictment. On the trial the cases were consolidated,
and as each indictment is in the identical language of all the
others, except as to the name of the person assaulted and the
date of the transaction, the copy which is here presented will
answer for all of them:
"1We,the grand jurors of the United States, chosen, selected,
and sworn in and for the Northern District of Georgia, upon our
oaths, present : That heretofore, to wit, on the twenty-fifth day of
July, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and
eighty-three, Jasper Yarbrough, James Yarbrough, Dilmus
Yarbrough, Neal Yarbrough, Lovel Streetman, Bold Emory,
State Lemmons, Jake Hayes, and E. H. Green, all late of said
Northern District of Georgia, did, within the said Northern
District of Georgia, and within the jurisdiction of this court,
commit the offence of conspiracy, for that the said Jasper Yarbrough, Jai.es Yarbrough, Dilmus Yarbrough, Neal Yar-

OCTOBER TER3M, 1883.
Opinion of the Court

brough, Lovel Streetman, Bold Emory, State Lemmons, Jake
Hayes, and E. H. Green did then and there, at the time and place
aforesaid, combine, conspire, and confederate together, by force,
to injure, oppress, threaten, and intimidate Berry Saunders, a person of color and a citizen of the United States of America of
African descent, on account of his race, color, and previous condition of servitude, in the full exercise and enjoyment of the right
and privilege of suffrage in the election of a lawfully qualified
person as a member of the Congress of the United States of
America, and because the said Berry Saunders had so exercised
the same, and on account of such exercise, which said right
and privilege of suffrage was secured to the said Berry Saunders
by the Constitution and laws of the United States of America,
the said Berry Saunders being then and there lawfully entitled to
vote in said election, and having so then and there conspired the
said Jasper Yarbrough, James Yarbrough, Dilmus Yarbrough,
Neal Yarbrough, Lovel Streetman, Bold Emory, State Lemmons,
Jake Hayes, and E. H. Green did unlawfully, feloniously, and
"wilfully beat, bruise, wound, and maltreat the said Berry
Saunders, contrary to the form of the statute in such case made
and provided, and against the peace and dignity of the United
States of America.
'%Secona Count.-And the jurors aforesaid, upon their oaths
aforesaid, do, further present: That heretofore, to wit, on the
twenty-fifth day of July, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight
hundred and -eighty-three, Jasper Yarbrough, James Yarbrough,
Dilmus Yarbrough,. Neal Yarbrough, Lovel Streetman, Bold
Emory, State Lemmons, Jake Hayes, andE, H. Green, all late of said
Northern District of Georgia, within the said Northern District of
Georgia and within the jurisdiction of this court, did commii the
offence of conspiracy, for that the said Jasper Yarbrough, James
Yarbrough, Dilmus Yarbrough, Neal Yarbrough, Lovel Streetman,
Bold Emory, State Lemmons, Jake Hayes, and E. H. Green, having then and there conspired together, by force, to injure, oppress,
threaten, and intimidate Berry Saunders, a person of color and a
citizen of the United States of America of African descent, on
account of his race, color, 4nd previous condition of servitude,
did then and there unlawfully, wilfully, and feloniously go in disguise on the highway, and on the premises of Berry Saunders,
with the intent to prevent and hinder his free exercise and enjoy-

EX PARTE YARBROUGH.
Opinion of the Court.
ment of the right to vote at an election for a lawfully qualified
person as a member of the Congress of the United States of
America, which said right had then and there been guaranteed to
the said Berry Saunders by the Constitution and laws of the
United States of America, the said Beri Saunders being then
and there lawfully qualified to vote at said election ; and having
so conspired, with intent as aforesaid, the said Jasper Yarbrough,
James Yarbrough, Dilmus Yarbrough, Neal Yarbrough, Lovel
Streetman, Bold Emory, State Lemmons, Jake Hayes, and R_ H.
Green did then and there beat, bruise, wound, and maltreat the
said Berry Saunders, contrary to the form of the statute in such
case made and provided, and against the peace and dignity of the
United States of America.
12th, 1883.
"A true bill. Oct.
" J. C. KInKPATRIcK, Foreman."
Stripped of its technical verbiage, the offence charged in this
indictment is that the defendants conspired .to intimidate Berry
Saunders, a citizen of African descent, in the exercise of his
right to vote for a member of the Congress of the United
States, and in the execution of that conspiracy they beat,
bruised, wounded and otherwise maltreated him; and in the
second count that they did this on account of his race, color,
and previous condition of servitude, by going in disguise and
assaulting him on the public highway and on his own premises.
If the questioii were not concluded in this court, as we have
already seen that it is by the decision of the Circuit Court, we
entertain no doubt that the conspiracy here described is one
which is embraced within the provisions of the Revised Statutes which we have cited.
. That a government whose essential character
is republican,
whose executive head and legislative body are both elective,
whose most numerous and powerful branch of the legislature is
elected by the people directly, has no power by appropriate
laws to secure this election from the influence of violence, of
corruption, and of fraud, is a proposition so startling as to
arrest attention and demand the gravest consideration.
If this government is anything more than a mere aggregation of delegated agents of other States and governments, each
Vol. cx-42

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

of which is superior to the general government, it must have
the power to protect the elections on which its existence depends from violence and corruption.
If it has not .this power it is left helpless before the two great
natural and historical enemies of all republics, open violence
and insidious corruption.
The proposition that it has no such power is supported by the
old argument often heard, often repeated, and in this court
never assented to, that when a question of the power of Congress arises the advocate of the power must be able to place his
finger on words which expressly grant it. The brief of counsel
before us, though directed to the authority of that body to pass
criminal laws, uses the same language. Because there is no expre&8 power to provide for preventing violence exercised on the
voter as a means of controlling his vote, no such law can be
enacted. It destroys at one blow, in construing the Constitution of the United States, the doctrine universally applied to
all instruments of writing, that what is implied is as much a
part of the instrument as what is expressed. This principle, in
its application to the Constitution of the United States, more
than to almost any other writing, is a necessity, by reason of
the inherent inability to put into words all derivative powersa difficulty which the instrument itself recognizes by conferring
on Congress the authority to pass all laws necessary and proper
to carry into execution the powers expressly granted and all
other powers vested in the government or any branch-of it by
the Constitution. Article I., sec. 8, clause 18.
We know of no express authority to pass laws to punish
theft or burglary of the treasury of the United States. Is
there therefore no power in the Congress to protect the treasury
by punishing such theft and burglary?
Are the mails of the United States and the money carried in
them to be left to the mercy of robbers and of thieves who
may handle the mail because the Constitution contains no express words of power in Congress to enact laws for the punishment of those offences? The principle, if sound, would abolish
the entire criminal jurisdiction of the courts of the United
States and the laws which confer that jurisdiction.

EX PARTE YARBROUGH.
Opinion of the Court.

It is said that the States can pass the necessary law on this
subject, and no necessity exists for such action by Congress.
But the existence of State laws punishing the counterfeiting of
the coin of the United States has never been held to supersede
the acts of Congress passed for that purpose, or to justify the
United States in failing to enforce its own laws to protect the
circulation of the coin which it issues.
It is very true that while Congress at an early day passed
criminal laws to punish piracy with death, and for punishing
all ordinary offences against person and property committed
within the District of Columbia, and in forts, arsenals, and
other places within the exclusive jurisdiction of the United
States, it was slow to pass laws protecting officers of the
government from personal injuries inflicted while in discharge
of their official duties within the States. This was not for
want of power, but because no occasion had arisen which required such legislation, the remedies in the State courts for
personal violence having proved sufficient.
Perhaps the earliest attempt of Congress to protedt government officers while in the exercise of their duty in a hostile
community, grew out of the nullification ordinance of South
Carolina, and is found in the "Act further to provide for the
collection of duties on imports." That act gave a right of
action in the courts of the United States to any officer engaged
in the collection of customs who should receive any injury to
his person or property for or on account of any act done by
him under any law of the United States for the protection of
the revenues. And where any suit or prosecution should be
commenced against him in a State court on account of any act
done under the revenue laws of the United States, or under
color thereof, the case might, on his petition, at any time before trial, be removed into the Circuit Court of the United
States. Act of March 2d, 1833, 4 Stat. 632.
When early in the late civil war the enforcement of the acts
of Congress for obtaining soldiers by draft brought the officers
engaged in it into hostile neighborhoods, it was found necessary
to pass laws for their protection. Accordingly, in 1863, an
act was passed making it a criminal offence to assault or ob-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

struct any officer while engaged in making the draft or in any
service in relation thereto. 12 Stat. 731. And the next year
the act was amended by making it applicable to the enrolment
and resistance made thereto, and adding that if any assault on
any officer or other person engaged in making such enrolment
shall result in death, it shall be murder and punished accordingly. 13 Stat. 8, § 12. Under this statute Scott was found
guilty of murder in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of Indiana, and the case was brought here by
a certificate of division of opinion.
It was not doubted for a moment by court or counsel that
Congress had the power to pass these statutes, but it was held
that serving notice of a draft, in doing which the man was
killed, was not a service in the enrolment as charged in the
indictment. Scott v. United States, 3 Wall. 642.
In the case of United States v. Gleason, Woolworth, 128,
the defendant was convicted and sentenced to death for the
murder of an enrolling officer while engaged in making the
enrohnent, and his sentence being commuted to imprisonment
for life, he died in the Iowa penitentiary while undergoing the
modified sentence. It was never suggested that Congress had
no power to pass the law under which he was convicted.
So, also, has the Congress been slow to exercise the powers
expressly conferred upon it in relation to elections by the fourth
section of the first article of the Constitution.
This section declares that:
"1The times, places, and manner of holding elections for senators and representatives shall be prescribed in each State by the
legislature thereof ; but the Congress may at any time make or
alter such regulations, except as to the place of choosing senators."
It was not until 1842 that Congress took any action under
the power here conferred, when, conceiving that the system of
electing all the members of the House of Representatives from
a State by general ticket, as it was called, that is, every elector
voting for as many namesi as the State was entitled to representatives in that house, worked injustice to other States which
did not adopt that system, and .gave an undue preponderance

EX PARTE YARBROUGH.
Opinion of the Court

of power to the political party which had a majority of votes
in the State, however small, enacted that each member should
be elected by a separate district, composed of contiguous territory. 5 Stat. 491.
And to remedy more than one evil arising from the election
of members of Congress occurring at different times in the different States, Congress, by the act of February 2, 1872, thirty
years later, required all the elections for such members to be
held on the Tuesday after the first Monday in November in
1876, and on the same day of every second year thereafter.
Tl e frequent failures of the legislatures of the States to elect
senators at the proper time, by one branch of the legislature
voting for one person and the other branch for another person,
and refusing in any manner to reconcile their differences, led
Congress to pass an act which compelled the two bodies to
meet in joint convention, and fixing the day when this should
be done, and requiring them so to meet on every day thereafter
and vote for a senator until one was elected.
In like manner Congress has fixed a day, which is to be the
same in all the States, when the electors for President and
Vice-President shall be appointed.
Now the day fixed for electing members of Congress has
been established by Congress without regard to the time set
for election of State officers in each State, and but for the fact
that the State legislatures have, for their own accommodation,
required State elections to be held at the same time, these elections would be held for congressmen alone at the time fixed
by the act of Congress.
Will it be denied that it is in the power of that body to provide laws for the proper conduct of those elections? To provide, if necessary, the officers who shall conduct them and
make return of the result? And especially to provide, in an
election held under its own authority, for security~of life and
limb to the voter while in the exercise of this function? Can
it be doubted that Congress can by law protect the act of voting, the place where it is done, and the man who votes, from
personal violence or intimidation and the election itself from
corruption and fraud?

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the CourL

If this be so, and it is not doubted, are such powers annulled
because an election for State officers is held at the same time
and place? Is it any less important that the election of members of Congress should be the free choice of all the electors
because State officers are to be elected at the same time IF
parte S'old, 100 U. S. 371.
These questions answer themselves; and it is only because
the Congress of the United States through long habit and
long years of forbearance, has, in deference and respect to the
States, refrained from the exercise of these powers, that they
are now doubted.
But when, in the pursuance of a new demand for action, that
body, as it did in the cases just enumerated, finds it necessary
to make additional laws for the free, the pure, and the safe
exercise of this right of voting, they stand upon the same
ground and are to be upheld for the same reasons.
It is said that the parties assaulted in these cases are not
officers of the United States, and their protection in exercising
the right to vote by Congress does not stand on the same
ground.
But the distinction is not well taken. The power in either
case arises out of the circumstance that the function in which
the party is engaged or the right which he is about to exercise
is dependent on the laws of the United States.
In both cases it is the duty of that government to see that he
may exercise this right freely, and to protect him from violence
while so doing, or on account of so doing. This duty does not
arise solely from the interest of the party concerned, but from
the necessity of the government itself, that its service shall be
free from the adverse influence of force and fraud practised on
its agents, and that the votes by which its members of Congress and its President are elected shall be the free votes of
the electors, and the officers thus chosen the free and uncor-.
rupted choice of those who have the right to take part in that
choice.
This proposition answers also another objection to the constitultionality of the laws under consideration, namely, that the
right to vote for a member of Congress is not dependent upon

EX PARTE YARBROUGH.
Opinion of the Court.

the Constitution or laws of the United States, but is governed
by the law of each State respectively.
If this were conceded, the importance to the general government of having the actual electicn-the voting for those members-free from force and fraud is not diminished by the circunstance that the qualification of the voter is determined by the
law of the State where he votes. It equally affects the government, it is as indispensable to the proper discharge of the great
function of legislating for that government, that those who are
to control this legislation shall not owe their election to bribery
or violence, whether the class of persons who shall vote is determined by the law of the State, or by law of the United
States, or by their united result.
But it is not correct to say that the right to vote for a member of Congress does not depend on the Constitution of the
United States.
The office, if it be properly called an office, is created by that
Constitution and by that alone. It also declares how it shall.
be filled, namely, by election.
Its langag is:
"ahe House of Representatives shall be composed of members
chosen every second year by the people of the several States, and
the electors in each State shall have the qualifications requisite
for electors of the most numerous branch of the State legislature." Article I., section 2.
The States in prescribing the qualifications of voters for the
most numerous branch of their own legislatures, do not do
this with reference to the election for members of Congress.
Nor can they prescribe the qualification for voters for those
eo nw ine. They define who are to vote for the popular branch
of their own legislature, and the Constitution of the United
States says the same persons shall vote for members of Congress in that State. It adopts the qualification thus furnished
as the qualification of its own electors for members of Congress.
It is not true, therefore, that electors for members of Congress owe their right to vote to the State law in any sense

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

which makes the exercise of the right to depend exclusively on
the law of the State.
Counsel for petitioners, seizing upon the expression found in
v. HaYqpers(,t, 21
the opinion of the court in the case of .Mnarl
Wall. 162, that "the Constitution of the United States does
not confer the right of suffrage upon any one," without reference to the connection in which it is used, insists that the voters
in this case do not owe their right to vote in any sense to that
instrument.
But the court was combating the argument that this right
was conferred on all citizens, and therefore upon women as
well as men.
In opposition to that idea,, it was said the Constitution adopts
as the qualification for voters of members of Congress that
which prevails in the State where the voting is to be done;
therefore, said the opinion, the right is not definitely conferred
on any person or class of persons by the Constitution alone,
.because you have to look to the law of the State for the description of the class. But the court did not intend to say that
when the class or the person is thus ascertained, his right to
vote for a member of Congress was not fundamentally based
upon the Constitution, which created the office of member of
Congress, and declared it should be elective, and pointed to the
means of ascertaining who should be electors.
The Fifteenth-Amendment of the Constitution, by its limitation on the power of the States in the exercise of their right
to prescribe the qualifications of voters in their own elections,
and by its limitation of the power of the United States over
that subject, clearly shows that the right of suffrage was considered to be of supreme importance to the national government, and was not intended to be left within the exclusive control of the States. It is in the following language:
" SEc. 1. The right of citizens of the United States to vote
shall not be denied or abridged by the United States, or by any
State, on account of race, color, or previous condition of servi.
tude.
" SEc. 2. The Congress shall have power to enforce this article
by appropriate legislatior."

EX PARTE YARBROUGIH
Opinion of the Court.

While it is quite true, as was said by this court in United
States v.R eese, 92 U. S. 214, that this article gives no airmative
right to the colored man to vote, and is designed primarily to
prevent discrimination against him whenever the right to vote
may be granted to others, it is easy to see that under some circumstances it may operate as the immediate source of a right
to vote. In all cases where the former slave-holding States
had not removed from their Constitutions the words "white
man" as a qualification for voting, this provision did, in effect,
confer on him the right to vote, because, being paramount to
the State law, and a part of the State law, it annulled the discriminating word white, and thus left him in the enjoyment of
the same right as white persons. And such would be the
effect of any future constitutional provision of a State which
should give the right of voting exclusively to white people,
whether they be men or women. Heal v. Delaware, 103 U. S.
370.
In such cases this fifteenth article of amendment does,.roPrio vigore,substantially confer on the negro the right to vote,
and Congress has the power to protect and enforce that right.
In the case of United Statie v. Reese, so much relied on by
counsel, this court said in regard to the Fifteenth Amendment,
that "it has invested the citizens of the United States with a
new constitutional right which is within the protecting power
of Congress. That right is an exemption from discrimination
in the exercis of the elective franchise on account of race,
color, or previous condition of servitude." This new constitutional right was mainly designed for citizens of African descent.
The principle, however, that the protection of the exercise of
this right is within the power of Congress, is as necessary to
the right of other citizens to vote as to the colored citizen, and
to the right to vote in general as to the right to be protected
against discrimination.
The exercise of the right in both instances is guaranteed by
the Constitution, and should be kept free and pure by congressional enactments whenever that is necessary.
The reference to cases in this court in which the power of
congress under the first section of the Fourteenth Amend-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

ment has been held to relate alone to acts done under State
authority, can afford petitioners no aid in the present case.
For, while it may be true that acts which are mere invasions
of private rights, which acts have no sanction in the statutes of
a State, or which are not committed by any one exercising its
authority, are not within the scope of that amendment, it is
quite a different matter when Congress undertakes to protect
the citizen in the exercise of rights conferred by the Constitution of the United States essential to the healthy organization
of the government itself.
But is a waste of time to seek for specific sources of the
power to pass these laws. Chancellor Kent, in the opening
words of that part of his commentaries which treats of the government and constitutional jurisprudence of the United States,
says:
"The government of the United States was created by the free
voice and joint will of the people of America for their common
defence and general welfare. Its powers apply to those great interests which relate to this country in its national capacity, and
which depend for their protection on the consolidation of the
Union. It is clothed with the principal attributes of political
sovereignty, and it is justly deemed the guardian of our best
rights, the source of our highest civil and political duties, and the
sure means of national greatness." 1 Kent's Com. 201.
It is as essential to the successful working of this government that the great organisms of its executive and legislative
branches should be the free choice of the 1seople as that the
original form of it should be so. In absolute governments,
where the monarch is the source of all power, it is still held to
be important that the exercise of that power shall be free from
the influence of extraneous violence and internal corruption.
In a republican government, like ours, where political power
is reposed in representatives of the entire body of the people,
chosen at short intervals by popular elections, the temptations
to control these elections 4by violence and by corruption is a
constant source of danger.
Such has been the history of all republics, and, though ours

A. T. & S. RAILROAD v. D. & N. 0. RAILROAD.

667

Syllabus.
has been comparatively free from both these evils in the past.
no lover of his country can shut his eyes to the fear of future
danger from both sources.
If the recurrence of such acts as these prisoners stand convicted of are too common in one quarter of the country, and
give omen of danger from lawless violence, the free use of
money in elections, arising from the vast growth of recent
wealth in other quarters, presents equal cause for anxiety.
If the government of the United States has within its constitutional domain no authority to provide against these evils,
if the very sources of power may be poisoned by corruption or
controlled by violence and outrage, without legal restraint,
then, indeed, is the country in danger, and its best powers, its
highest purposes, the hopes which it inspires, and the love
which enshrines it, are at the mercy of the combinations of
those who respect no right but brute force, on the one hand,
and unprincipled corruptionists on the other.
The rue i8 discharged, and the writ of 1uha
corus is
dmied.

ATCHISON, TOPEKA & SANTA FE RAILROAD COMPANY v. DENVER & NEW ORLEANS RAILROAD
COMPANY.
DENVER & NEW ORLEANS RAILROAD COMPANY
.ATCHISON, TOPEKA & SANTE FE RAILROAD
COMPANY.
oOSS AppEAXS IROM THE CIMCUI coUrr op TH

UITED STATES

FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
Submitte JanuarY 16th, 1884.--ecided March 3d, 1884.

Connecting Railroads-TheirRighis and Duties.
The provision in the Constitution of Colorado, that "all individuals, associa-

tions, and corporations shall have equal rights to have persons and property transported over any railroad in this State, and no undue or unreasonable discrimination shall be made in charges or facilities for transportation of freight or passengers within the State, and no railroad com-

