OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

land, and denied by this court as to other lands within the
same State. It was said in argument, indeed, that part of the
land sought to be recovered was the same in both actions; but
this does not appear upon the record before us.
Jwudmena afflrmed.

FREEDM1AN'S

SAYINGS & TRUST COMPATY v.
EARLE.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUfEL.
Argued February 1st, 1884.-Decided March 10th, 1834.

Judgment Lien on Equity of Redemption.
It was decided in XorweU v. First National Bank, 91 U. S. 857, that in the
District of Columbia, following the laws of Maryland, judgments at law
were not liens upon the interest of judgment debtors who had previously
conveyed lands to a trustee in trust for the payment of a debt secured
thereby. It is now decided that the creditor of such judgment debtor, by
filing his bill in equity to take an account of the debt secured by the trust
deed, and to have the premises sold subject thereto and the proceeds of the
sale applied to the satisfaction of the judgment, may obtain a priority of lien
upon the equitable interest of the judgment debtor in the property, subject
to payment of the debt.
The doctrine of equitable assets considered and the English and American
cases reviewed.

The appellee recovered a judgment against Robert P. Dodge
in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia on January
4th, 1878, for $7,700, with interest and costs, which was revived April 2d, 1879, and on which a fl. fa. was issued April
9th, 1879, and returned nuik/ bonZ.
On June 1st, 1877, Dodge, the judgment debtor, being then
seized in fee simple of certain real estate in the city of Georgetown in this district, conveyed the same by deed duly recorded
to Charles H. Cragn, Jr., in trust, to secure to JNannie B.
Blackford payment of the sum of $2,000, with interest, according to certain promissory notes given therefor, and which were
indorsed to Charles H. Cragin.
On April 10th, 1879, the appellee filed his bill in equity, to

FREEDMA2YS SAVINGS & TRUST CO. v. EARLE.

ll

Statement of Facts.

which Dodge, Charles H. Cragin, Jr., Charles H. Cragin, and
Nannie B. Blackford were made defendants, the object and
prayer of which were to take an account of the debt secured
by the trust deed, and, subject thereto, to have the premises
sold and the proceeds of the sale applied to the satisfaction of
the appellee's judgment.
The defendants having appeared and answered, a decree
according to the prayer of the bill was rendered June 11th,
1879.
On December 27th, 1879, leave therefor having been obtained, the appellants filed a petition in the cause, setting forth
the recovery of a judgment in their favor against the defendant Dodge in the sum of $7,386.47, with interest and costs, on
February llth, 1879, in the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia, and that on December 2d, aX. fa. had been issued
thereon and returned nul a bona December 19th, 1879; and
praying that they may be made parties complainant in the
cause; that the equitable interest of Dodge in the real estate
described be subjected to the satisfaction of their judgment;
that the same be sold, and the proceeds of sale be brought into
court and distributed according to law. To this petition Dodge
answered, admitting the recovery of the judgment as alleged.
On May 25th, 1880, the trustee appointed for that purpose
under the decree of June 11th, 1879, reported a sale of the
premises for $5,525, and the same, on June 25th, 1880, -was
confirmed. The cause was then referred to an auditor to state
the account of the trustee to sell, whose report showed an appropriation of the proceeds of the sale, after payment of costs,
in payment to that extent of the appellee's judgment. On exceptions to this report, a final decree confirming the same was
made September 14th, 1880, which decree on appeal to the
general term was affirmed on December 10th, 1880. From
that decree this appeal was prosecuted.

M. Enock Totten for appellant.
3r. Calderon CarZiel
appellee.

and .6. J. 1). A1emPtzson for

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court
:If. JuscE NhTT'mws delivered the opinion of the court.
After reciting the facts in the foregoing language he continued:
As ground of reversal, it is assigned by the appellant that
the proceeds of the sale of the equitable interest of Dodge, the
judgment debtor, should have been distributed ffro ta between the appellees and the appellants, instead of having been
awarded exclusively to th6 appellee. It is contended on behalf
of the appellants that the interest of the judgment debtor in
the land, being an equity merely, is not subject to execution at
law; and as it can be reached by judgment creditors only
through the intervention and by the aid of a court of equity,
it becomes of the nature of equitable assets, and when sold, the
proceeds will be applied, according to the maxim that equality
is equity, ratably among the creditors.
In the case of -MorseM v. Fi -Tationw2 Bank., 91 U. S. 357,
it was decided that, under the laws of 1ffaryland in force in
this District, judgments at law were not liens upon the interest
of judgment debtors who had previously conveyed lands to a
trustee in trust for the payment of a debt secured thereby.
Mr. Justice Swayne said (p. 361): "The judgments in nowise
affected the trust premises until the bill was filed. That created
alien in favor of the judgment creditors. There was none before."
And it was accordingly held that in the distribution of the proceeds of sale the judgments must be postponed to debts secured
by other deeds of trust made before the filing of the bill, but
subsequent to the rendition of the judgments. But that decision leaves open the question arising here between judgment
creditors seeking satisfaction in equity out of the debtor's equitable estate. It becomes necessary, therefore, to determine the
nature of the right and the principle of distribution which arises
from it.
At common law executions upon judgments could not be
levied upon estates merely equitable, because courts of law did
not recognize any such titles and could not deal with them.
They could not be levied jxpon the estate of the trustee when
the judgment was against the ce8ui 9
trut for the same
reason; and when the judgment was against the trustee, if his
legal estate should be levied oil, the execution creditor could

FREEDMA"S SAVINGS & TRUST CO. -v. EARLE. 713
Opinion of the Court.
acquire no beneficial interest, and if the levy tended injuriously
to affect the interest of the cetui que trust,the latter would be
entitled to relief, by injunction or otherwise, in equity. Lewin
on Trusts, 181, 186; 2 Spence Eq. Jur. 39.
But as courts of equity regarded the ce8tui que trust as the
true and beneficial owner of the estate, to whose uses, according to the terms of the trust, the legal title was made subser-.
vient, so in its eyes, the estate of the cestui que trust came to be
invested with the same incidents and qualities which in a courtof law belonged to a legal estate, so far as consistent with the
preservation and administration of the trust. This was by
virtue of a principle of analogy, adopted because courts of
equity were unwilling to interfere with the strict course of the
law, except so far as was necessary to execute the just intentions of parties, and to prevent the forms of the law from being
made the means and instruments of wrong, injustice and oppression.
Thus equitable estates were held to be assignable and could
be conveyed or devised; were subject to the rules of descent
applicable to legal estates; to the tenancy by courtesy,
though not to dower, by an anomalous exception afterwards
corrected by statute, 3 and 4 Will. IV., c. 105; and were ordinarily governed by the rules of law which measure the duration
of the enjoyment or regulate the devolution or transmission of
estates; so that, in general, whatever would be the rule of law,
if it were a legal estate, was applied by the court of chancery
by analogy to a trust estate. 1 Spence Eq. Jur. 502.
As judgment creditors, after the statute of Westminster, 13
Ed. I, c. 18, were entitled, by the writ of eegit, to be put in
the possession of a moiety of the lands of the debtor, until satisfaction of the judgment; and as it would be contrary to
equity to permit a debtor to withdraw his lands from liability
to his judgment creditors, this analogy was at an early date extended, so as to give to judgment creditors similar benefits in
respect to the equitable estate of their debtors; and as the
remedies in favor of judgment creditors by way of execution
upon the legal estate of their debtors have been enlarged, they
have been imitated by a corresponding analogy as to equitable

OCTOBER TERM,; 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

estates by courts of equity. This is in pursuance of the principle stated in a pregnant sentence by Lord Northington, in
Burgess v. /zeate, 1 Eden, 177-261, where he said; "For my
own part, I know no instance where this court ever permitted the
creation of a trust to affect the right of a third party." Ib.
151. It is embodied in the maxim, xquita sequitur legemn.
It was accordingly held by Lord Nottingham, in the anonymous case cited in Balch v. Wastall, 1 P. Wis. 445,' that one
who had a judgment, and had lodged ajerifaiasin the sheriff's hands, to which nulla bona was returned, might afterwards
bring a bill against the defendant, or any other, to discover
any of the goods or personal estate of the defendant, and by
that means to effect the same;" and although Lord Keeper
Bridgman, in Prattv. Colt, Freeman's Cas. in Ch. by Hovenden, 139, refused to permit a trust estate, which had
descended to tho heir, to be extended upon an elegit on
a judgment against his ancestor, the reporter adds, "but note
that this hath not been taken to be a good demurrer by
the old and best practisers, as little according with good
reason, for the heir-at-law is as muoh chargeable with
the ancestor's judgment as the executor with the testator's
debts, and so equity ought to follow the law." Three years
subsequently to this decision, the Statute of Frauds, 29 Car. II,
c. 3, was enacted, the 10th section of which made trust estates
in fee simple assets for the payment of debts, and subject to an
elegit upon judgment against the cestui que trust. But this
statute did not extend to chattels real, to trusts under which
the debtor had not the whole interest, to equities of redemption, or to any equitable interest which had been parted with
before execution sued out. Forthv. .Duke of l"wofolk, 4 Mad.
503. The statute of 5 Geo. II. c. 7, which made lands within
the English colonies chargeable with debts, and subject to the
like process of execution as personal estate, was in force in
Maryland; but as it did not interfere with the established distinction between law and equity, it did not permit an equitable
interest to be seized under a feri facias. lessee of Smith v.
.cCann, 24 How. 398. But as the effect of these statutes was
to enlarge the operation of executions upon legal estates, so the

FREEDMAN'S SAYINGS & TRUST CO. v. EARLE. 715
Opinion of the Court.

corresponding equitable remedy as to equitable estates was also
enlarged, and as to them equitable executions were enforced to
the same extent to which executions at law were enforceable
upon estates subject to seizure under them.
This mere equity, consisting in the right to obtain the aid of
the court in subjecting the equitable interest of the debtor, not
being a lien at law or a specific charge in equity, nevertheless
constitutes such an interest, and creates such a privity, as entitles the judgment creditors to redeem a prior mortgage, and
succeeding thus to the rights of the mortgagee in England,
where the doctrine of tacking prevailed, he was permitted to
hold the whole estate as security for his judgment also, even
when, by virtue of an ekegit at law, he would be entitled only
to a moiety of the debtor's land. And he could file his bill to
redeem without previously issuing an execution. Neate v.
.Duke of Aarlborougk, 3 MIyl. & Cr.407. The reason for this,
assigned by Lord Cottenham in the case just cited, is, that inasmuch as the court finds the creditor in a condition to acquire a
power over the estate by suing out the writ, it does what it
does in all similar cases ; it gives to the party the right to come
in and redeem other encumbrances upon the property.
But in other cases, when the object of the bill is to obtain
satisfaction of the judgment, by a sale of the equitable estate,
it must be alleged that execution has been issued. This is not
supposed to be necessary wholly on the ground of showing
that the judgment creditor has exhausted his remedy at law;
for, if so, it would be necessary to show a return of the execution, unsatisfied, which, however, is not essential. Lewin on
Trusts, 513. But the execution must be sued out; for if the
estate sought to be subjected is a legal estate and subject to be
taken in execution, the ground of the jurisdiction in equity is
merely to aid the legal right by removing obstacles in the way
of its enforcement at law. Tone v. Green, 1 Wall. 330; and
if the estate is equitable merely, and therefore not subject to
be levied on by an execution at law, the judgment creditor is
bound nevertheless to put himself in the same position as if
the estate were legal, because the action of the court converts
the estate, so as to make itsubject to an execution, as if it were

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

legal The ground of the jurisdiction therefore is, not that of
a lien or charge arising by virtue of the judgment itself, but of
an equity to enforce satisfaction of the judgment by means of
an equitable execution. And this it effects by a sale of the
debtor's interest subject to prior encumbrances, or according to
circumstances, of the whole estate, for distribution of the proceeds of sale among all the encumbrancers according to the
order in which they may be entitled to participate. Sha?,pe v.
Earl of Scarborough,4 Yes. 538.
It is to be noted, therefore, that the proceeding is one instituted by the judgment creditor for his own interest alone,
unless he elects to file the bill also for others in a like situation,
with whom he chooses to make common cause; iind as no
specific lien arises by virtue of the judgment and execution
alone, the right to obtain satisfaction out of the specific property sought to be subjected to sale for that purpose, dates from
the filing of the bill. "The creditor," says Chancellor Walworth, in Zdkmeston v. Lyde, 1 Paige Oh. 637-640, "whose legal
diligence has pursued the property into this court, is entitled
to a preference as the reward of his vigilance;" and it would
"seem unjust that the creditor who has sustained all the risk
and expense of bringing his suit to a successful termination,
should in the end be obliged to divide the avails thereof with
those who have slept upon their rights, or who have intentionally kept back that they might profit by his exertions when
there could no longer be any risk in becoming parties to the
suit." As his lien begins with the filing of the bill, it is subject
to all existing encumbrances, but is superior to all of subsequent
date. As was said by this court in -Day v. W'ashurn, 24
How. 352:
"It is only when he has obtained a judgment and execution in
seeking to subject the property of his debtor in the hands of third
persons, or to reach property not accessible to an execution, that
a legal preference is acquired which a court of chancery will
enforce."
This is in strict accordance with the analogy of the law, as
it was recognized that the judgment creditor who first extends

FREEDMAY'S SAVINGS & TRUST CO. v. EARLE. 717
Opinion of the Court
the land by elegit is thereby entitled to be first satisfied out of
it. It is the execution first begun to be executed, unless otherwise regulated by statute, which is entitled to priority. Rockill v. Hanna,15 How. 189, 195 ; Payne v. Drew, 4 East. 523.
The filing of the bill, in cases of equitable execution, is the
beginning of executing it.
The passage cited from the opinion in -Day v. Washburn,
supra, speaks of the preference thus acquired by the execution
creditor as a legal preference. It was distinctly held so to be
by Chancellor Kent in X.cDermott v. Strong,4 Johns. Ch. 687.
-He there said: "But this case stands on stronger ground than
if it rested merely on the general jurisdiction of this court,
upon residuary trust interests in chattels, for the plaintiffs
come in the character of execution creditors, and have thereby
acquired, by means of their executions at law, what this court
regards as a legal preference, or lien on the property so placed
in trust ;" and "admitting that the plaintiffs had acquired, by
their executions at law, a legal preference to the assistance of
this court (and none but execution creditors at law are entitled
to that assistance), that preference ought not, in justice, to be
taken away. Though it be the favorite policy of this court to
assu, yet whendistribute assets equally among creditors, pai
ever a judicial preference has been established, by the superior
legal diligence of any creditor, that preference is always preserved in the distribution of assets by this court." The decision in that case was made, giving the .priority to the execution
creditors who filed the bill, when, otherwise, by virtue of an
assignment by the debtor who was insolvent, the proceeds of
the equitable interest sought to be subjected would have been
distributed ratably among all creditors.
This case, often cited and never questioned, shows that the
doctrine of equitable assets, to which we are referred by the
appellant as the ground of his claim, has no application to the
case. Ordinarily and strictly, the term, equitable assets, applies
only to property and funds belonging to the estate of a decedent, which by law are not subject to the payment of debts, in
the course of administration by the personal representatives,
but which the testator has voluntarily charged with the pay-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

ment of debts generally, or which, being non-existent at law,
have been created in equity, under circumstances which fasten
upon them such a trust. Adams on Equity, 254. But, as was
said by Chancellor Kent in Williams v. Brown, 4 Johns. Oh.
682, the doctrine "does not apply to the case of a debtor in
full life, for there is no equitable trust created and attached to
the distribution of the effects in the latter 'ease." Property
held by a trustee for the testator is legal assets, for, although
the benefit of the trust, if resisted, cannot be enforced without
equitable aid, yet the analogy of the law will regulate the application of the fund. To constitute equitable assets, the trust
imposed by the party, or by the court, must be for the benefit
of creditors generally.
It is true that in .7fose v. .furgatroyd, 1 Johns. Ch. 119
(7 Am. Dec. 478), Chancellor Kent held surplus money arising
from the sale of mortgaged premises to be equitable assets, but
that was in a case where the mortgagor was deceased and the
fund was in a court of equity for distribution, and when the
judgment to which priority was refused was confessed by the
administrator. In Purdy v. Doyle, 1 Paige, 558, the rule was
stated by Chancellor Walworth, in these words:
Cc If it is such property as the judgment creditors could obtain
a specific or general lien on at law, they are entitled to the fruits
of their superior vigilance, so far as they have succeeded in getting such lien. But if the property was in such a situation that
it could not be reached by a judgment at law, and the fund is
raised by a decree of this court, and the creditors are obliged to
come here to avail themselves of it, they will be- paid on the footing of equity only."

But a specific lien, whether legal or equ.itable, on property
liable as equitable assets, was always respected by courts of
equity. Freemoult v. Dedire, 1 Peere Wms. 429; Finck v.
Ezrl of Tinokelsea, Tb. 277; Ram on Assets, 318. And Lord
Chancellor Parker, in WIgoa v. Fielding,2 Vern. 763, 10 Mod.
426, drew the distinction b4tween property which is assets in a
court of equity only and certain property which a creditor cannot come at without the aid of a court of equity. In that cae

FREEDMAN'S SAVINGS & TRUST CO. v. EARLE. 719
Opinion of the Court.

the mortgage debt had been paid out of the personal estate by
the executor, thus exonerating the mortgaged premises which
had descended to the heir. The unsatisfied creditors filed a
bill to require the heir at law to refund, which was "a matter
purely in equity and a raising of assets where there were
none at law."
And see Atla8 Bank v. .Ntaha, Bank, 3. Met. (Mass.) 581;
Codwise v. Geiston, 10 Johns. 507, 522; Tenant v. Strong, 1
Richardson Eq. 221; 1 Story Eq. Jur. ยง 553; 2 White & Tudor's
Lead. Cas. in Eq. pt. 1, 390.
We have already seen that the filing of a bill by an execution creditor to subject the equity of the debtor in his lifetime,
created a lien and gave him a legal preference. And in the
English chancery, although equities of redemption after the
death of the mortgagor are classed as equitable assets, the rule
of distribution 2ar _asu is modified in its application to them
in respect to judgment creditors by permitting them to retain
their priority over other claims, because, if such priority were
not allowed, the judgment creditor might acquire it by redeeming the mortgage. Adams Eq. 256. Legal assets, according
to the definition of Mr. Justice Story, Eq. Jur. ยง 551, "are such
as come into the hands and power of an executor or administrator, or such as he is intrusted with by law virtute oficii to
dispose of in the course of his administration. In other words,
whatever an executor or administrator takes qua executor or
administrator, or in respect to his office, is to be considered
legal assets." And this is the modern doctrine in England.
In Lovegrove v. Cooper, 2 Sm. & Giff. 271, it was held, for that
reason, that the proceeds of real estate directed to be sold for
the payment of debts, and paid by the purchaser into court,
were legal and not equitable assets.
It follows from this, that in this country generally, where
the real estate of a decedent is chargeable with the payment of
debts, and, in case of a deficiency of personal property for that
purpose, may be subjected to sale and distribution as assets, by
the personal representative, in the ordinary course of administration, the distinction between legal and equitable assets has
ceased to be important. In every such case the equity of re-

OCTOBER TERBM, 1883.
Syllabus.

demption could only be applied after sale by the executor or
administrator in the ordinary course of administration, subject
to whatever liens may have been imposed upon it in the lifetime of the mortgagor. and among them, as we have seen, is
that of an execution creditor who has filed his bill to subject it
to the payment of his judgment. So, in other cases where the
rule of equality in distribution, as to equitable assets, applies,
as in cases of assignments by the debtor himself for the payment of debts generally, and in cases of bankruptcy and insolvency, except as otherwise expressly provided by statute, the
estate passes, subject to existing liens, including that of an execution creditor who had previously filed a bill to subject the
equitable interest of the debtor, and his priority is respected
and preserved. The lien is given by the court in the exercise
of its jurisdiction to entertain the bill and to grant the relief
prayed for; and to distribute the proceeds of the sale for the
benefit of others, equally with the execution creditor first filing
the bill, would be to contradict the very principle of the jurisdiction itself, and defeat the very remedy it promised; for the
fruits of litigation, according to the rule of equality, would
have to be divided, not only with other judgment and execution creditors, but, as well, with all creditors, whether their
claims had been reduced to judgment or not.
For these reason, the decree a2ppeaWe from is afflrmed.

CUTLER a. KOUNS & Another.

IN ERROR

TO THE CIRCUT COURT OF TIM MUTED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF

'EW YORE

Argued January 9th, 1884.-Decided larch 10th, I884.

.beflion.e.fridio

tapon T

.adz.

Under authority derived from ยง& of the act of July 2d, 1884,13 Stat. 875, and
the Treasury Regulation of May 9th, 1865, a treasury agent at New
Orleans took on the 6th of June, 1865. possession of cotton brought to New
Orleans, from Shreveport and from the State of Texas, and before releas-

