OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

erty. If the receiver and trustee referred to in the bill were
guilty of fraud and imposition in respect of the Wright claims,
it was competent for the bondholders and the parties interested
in the property, before title was passed to the purchaser, to
waive any grounds of complaint which they may have had on
that account. And they had the right to acquiesce, and so far
as the record discloses, have acquiesced in their allowance,
thereby consenting that the proceeds of sale, to the amount of
such claims, should be applied in payment thereof, rather than
in satisfaction of their own defhands. The appellant presents
no grounds upon which he can be relieved from his obligation
to comply with the terms of purchase as set forth in the decree
of sale and as expressed as well in the order of confirmation, as
in the conveyance to him.
Upon the grounds indicated the decree is

Aflrmee.

SWANN

& Others v. CLARK & Others.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHER-N DISTRICT OF ALAD

A.

Argued December 18th, 19th, 1883.-Decided March 3d, 1834

Conract-Eqdty-Hypothean-f?-. rtgae-eeiver.
While a railroad was in the hands of a receiver, appointed in a suit for the
foreclosure of a mortgage upon it, the court authorized the receiver to borrow money and to issue certificates of indebtedness, to be a lien upon the
property prior to the mortgage debt, and to part with them at a rate not
less than ninety cents on the dollar. The receiver borrowed money on hypothecation of some of these certificates. The property was decreed to be
sold subject to liens established on then pending references. Held, That
the hypothecated certificates were not liens to the extent of their face, but
that a decree directing the debts secured by them to be paid in them at the
rate of ninety cents on the dollar to the extent of the money actually
advanced, and making that amount of certificates a lien, would be upheld
in equity.

.Yr. -DavidCk/ton and )fr. iS.F. Rice for appellants.
Xr. .t1oortld &torey and .A1.. P. Namlton for appellees.

SW'ANN v. CLAR".
Opinion of the Court.

The facts making the case are stated in the opinion of the
court.
M. JusncE IRLnx delivered the opinion of the court.
.This case is an outgrowth of a foreclosure suit brought by
the trustees in a first mortgage executed by the Alabama &
Chattanooga Railroad Company upon its road, property, rights,
and franchises, to secure the- payment of bonds by it issued.
The history of that suit is given in the opinion just rendered in
Swann v. WMigt's Eo'ro. The terms of the several orders and
decrees in the foreclosure suit, so far as they affect the rights of
parties now before us, are set forth in that opinion, and need
not be here repeated.
Among the claims presented against the trust fund in the
foreclosure suit was one by appellee Clark for alleged loans
made to the receivers, for which the latter hypothecated to him
forty-five receivers' certificates. Commissioner Phillips found
that such hypothecation was unauthorized by the orders of the
court under and in virtue of which the certificates were issued.
But he reported that upon principles of equity those claims, to
the extent of moneys actually advanced to the receivers and
applied to the benefit of the trust estate, should be allowed and
paid in certificates, at ninety cents on the dollar. The amount
advanced -by Clark was ascertained to be $16,760.89 ; and for
that sum, with interest to. September 1st, 1875, amounting in
all to $19,658.01, the commissioner reported that he should be
allowed, in certificates, the sum of $21,842.23. These conclusions were sustained by the court; but, as it appeared that the
Clark certificates were, or were supposed to be, in the hands of
different parties, and inasmuch as the rights of those parties
could not be determined from the reports of the commissioner,
those certificates were not allowed, and the parties were required to litigate their respective rights with each other, by
bills filed in the same court, thereby "to ascertain and settle
the amount that the said trust fund is liable for, and who are
entitlel to any and which of said certificates."
It was in consequence of this direction that the present suit
was brought by appellees, who unitedly held thirty-seven

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opiniou of the Court.

of the forty-five certificates (as to two of which no further
claim on the trust fund was asserted by Clark), the remaining
six being held by some person to appellees then unknown. The
object of the suit was to obtain a decree adjudging that receivers' certificates to the amount of the moneys advanced by
Clark, with interest thereon, be allowed to the petitioners and
to the holder of the six certificates-the certificates so allowed
to be established as a prior lien upon the railroad and other
The latter appeared and
property purchased by Swann.
answered; and, admitting that Clark had loaned the receivers
$16,760.89, he denied that he or any persons claiming under
him were entitled to be paid in said certificates, or any of them,
or that the claim asserted was a lien on the property to the
prejudice of the rights of himself or of the Alabama Great
Southern Railroad Company. A decree was rendered wherein
it was found that the amount, principal and interest, of the loan
by Clark was, on September 1st, 1875, $21,842.23. It was adjudged that the appellees, as the holders of thirty-seven of the
certificates, were entitled to thirty-seven forty-thirds of the
total amount due, or the sum of $18,794.47. At the instance
of Swan, the court required appellees to hold three certificates,
subject to the further order of the court, for the protection of
the unknown holder of the six certificates, who, it was suggested, might show himself entitled to be paid in full; and
petitioners were given leave to move at the next term for the
allowance of the suspended certificates. All the other certificates, as well as the notes given by the receivers for the moneys
so loaned to them, were surrendered and destroyed. The certificates so allowed were established by the decree as liens on
the mortgaged property.
A rehearing was asked by Swann at the succeeding term,
but the application therefor was denied. At that term appellees asked to have the suspension placed upon the beforementioned three certificates removed. Thereupon E. J. Fallon
presented his petition in the cause, showing that the beforementioned six certificates had come into the possession of the
Alabama, Great Southern Railroad Company through a settlement had between it and J. C. Stanton, by the terms of which

SWANN v. CLARK.

1605

Opinion of the Court.

the latter agreed to deliver to that company a large number of
receivers' certificates of admitted and ascertained validity; that
the company did not concede the six certificates to be valid,
but received them from said Stanton to be held as security
only for his delivery of a like number of admitted and ascertained validity; which being done, they were to be returned
to him. For that purpose, and in that manner, Fallon averred in
his petition, the said six certificates were held by him as agent
of the company. He claimed that they had been originally
transferred to D. N. Stanton, from whom J. C. Stanton acquired them, and that if any of the forty-five certificates were
allowed, the six above named were entitled to be paid in full
before appellees received anything' He asked that he and J.
0. Stanton be made parties defendant, to the end that none of
the rights of said Stanton should be prejudiced by any neglect
upon the part of the company. He was made a defendant, and
his petition directed to be taken as his answer.
Upon final hearing the three suspended certificates, with
coupons maturing after September 1st, 1875, were allowed to
the appellees, while three certificates in full and a fourth one
for $47.75 were allowed to Fallon-the excess in certificates
and coupons held by Fallon to be surrendered.
From this decree Swan, Fallon, and the Alabama Great
Southern. Railroad Company appealed.
The main question to be determined is that which arises between Swam and the appellees touching the alleged lien upon
the property sold in the foreclosure suit, for the certificates allowed to the appellees. If the lien established in favor of appellees for the amount of those certificates belongs to the class
subject to which the property was sold, purchased, and conveyed, then, for the reasons stated in Swann v. Wright's Eo'r,
Swann is not at liberty to raise any objection to the allowance
of such certificates to the extent of the moneys originally advanced by Clark to the receivers. The decree of August 26th,
1872, under and in virtue of which the receivers' certificates
were issued, reserved a prior lien to secure the payment of all
moneys raised through the receivers by loan, or which might
be advanced to them for the purposes expressed in the orders

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

of the court. While the receivers were adjudged not to have
authority to hypothecate certificates, as was done in Clark's
case, yet, as early in the litigation as January 23d, 1874, the
date of the first decree of sale, the court-having before it the
report of Commissioner Burke, and being thereby informed of
Clark's claim, as well for moneys advanced to the receivers as
of a lien therefor-declared in that decree that nothing therein
should impair the rights of "holders of certificates under hypothecation to the extent of money loaned and advanced on
the same" for the purposes contemplated by its orders, "with
interest and expense added thereto." And the decree of February 14th, 1876, based upon the report of Commissioner Phillips,
shows upon its face that the court recognized the soundness of
the rule suggested by him, which required the payment, in
certificates, of all claims for moneys in good faith advanced to
the receivers, and applied to the benefit of the trust estate. By
that decree it was ordered that the holders of the forty-five
certificates interplead in the same court, so that the court would
be informed as to the amount for which the trust fund was
liable. This was not a disallowance of these claims as liens,
but only a suspension of them until the suit thus directed to be
brought was ended. They were pending and undetermined
when the decree of December 4th, 1876, was made. That
decree, we have seen, required the sale to be made "subject to
all liens established, or which shall be established, by said court
in this cause, on references heretofore had and now pending, as
prior and superior to the lien of the holders of bonds issued
under the first mortgage." The claims in question had theretofore been the subject of reference to commissioners; and,
within any just interpretation of the words of the decree, they
were the subject of pending references, unless it be that the
court, by requiring the parties to litigate them in a new suit
between themselves, instead of requiring them to disclose their
interests before a commissioner, intended to make a distinction
between liens established by means of a formal reference to the
commissioner, and those established in an independent suit
brought in conformity with its orders. But that supposition
is inadmissible, especially in view of the fact, apparent upon

SWANN

. CLARK.

Opinion of the Court.

the face of the decree of February 14th, 1876, that numerous
claims, similar in their origin to Clark's, and secured by hypothecated certificates, were then, before the final decree of
sale, allowed, payable in certificates at 90 cents on the dollar.
It is manifest from the decree that the court would then have
allowed the Clark claims, to the extent of money actually
loaned to the receivers, and applied for the benefit of the trust,
and paid them in certificates, had it been possible at that time
to determine the actual ownership of the forty-five certificates.
And this view is strengthened by the further fact that, in the
decree of June 19th, 1877, confirming the sale to Swann, subject to the liens described in the decree of December 4th, 1876,
the court expressly freed the trust estate from liability to
certain persons on account of hypothecated certificates held by
them, but does not name the forty-five certificates as among
the number so cut off.
It seems to us entirely clear that, by the decree of sale, the
liens which were attached to such certificates as the court
might award, on account of the moneys loaned to the receivers
by Clark, were among those expressly subject to which Swanm
purchased, and received title to, the property. Consequently,
for the reasons stated in Swann v. Wright's E , the property
is liable to the holders of such certificates.
This disposes of all that there is of substance in the case.
We perceive nothing of merit in the appeals of Fallon and the
Alabama Great Southern Railroad Company. Upon the issue
as to whether the property was liable for the amount of the
certificates awarded to appellees, the only necessary party defendant was Swan, the purchaser. The railroad company was
a purchaser penknte lite, and was not entitled to be made a
party to issues pending and undetermined when it purchased.
That company was, upon the showing made by its agent, the
holder of the before-mentioned six certificates which were
made payable to bearer. It placed the certificates in his hands
for the purpose of having him present them in court for allowance in full. He did appear and was made a party. Waiving
any inquiry as to whether the amount involved in the appeal,
so far as it concerns Fallon or those whom he represents, is

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

large enough for our jurisdiction, it is sufficient to say that no
facts were disclosed which entitled the six certificates to be
paid in full. We perceive no error in the decree as to him or
the company, and it is
Afirmned.

NORTHERN BANK OF TOLEDO v. PORTER TOWNSHIP TRUSTEES.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
Argued January 21st, 168.-Decided March 3d, 1884.
Estqppel---.unicipal Bond--Slatutes of Ohio.
The act of the legislature of Ohio of March 21st, 1850, as amended March
25th, 1851, authorized county commissioners to submit to the people at
special elections the question whether the county would subscribe to the
stock of a railroad company and issue bonds in payment thereof; and if the
subscription should not be authorized by the county, then that the question
of subscriptions by township trustees might be submitted to the people of
the respective townships. .ield, That until refusal by the counties to subscribe, either by direct vote or by failure within a reasonable time to call
an election for thd purpose, the townships were without legislative authority
to subscribe, or to issue township bonds in payment of subscriptions.
A municipal corporation which issues a bond reciting on its face that it is
issued in part payment of a subscription to the capital stock of a railroad
made by the corporation in pursuance of the several acts of the general
assembly of the State and of a vote of the qualified electors of the corporation taken in pursuance thereof, is estopped thereby from denying that an
election was held, or that it was called and conducted in the mode required
by law; but it is not estopped from showing that the corporation was without legislative authority to issue the bonds.
The facts which a municipal corporation, issuing bonds in aid of a railroad,
is not permitted, against a bonafide holder, to question, in face of a recital
in the bonds of their existence, are those connected with or growing out of
the discharge of the ordinary duties of such of its officers as were invested
with authority to execute them, and which the statute conferring the power
made it their duty to ascertain and determine before the bonds were issued.
The cases relating to this point examined and reviewed.

This was an action to recover principal and interest of bonds

