OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

of due process of law protects the fundamental principles of
liberty and justice, adjudges, in effect, that an immunity or
right, recognized at the common law to be essential to personal security, jealously guarded by our national Constitution
against violation by any tribunal or body exercising authority
under the.general government, and expressly or impliedly recognized, when the Fourteenak Amendment was adopted, in the
Bill of Rights or Constitution of every State in the Union, is,
yet, not a fundamental principle in governments established,
as those of the States of the Union are, to secure to the citizen
liberty and justice, and, therefore, is not involved in that due
process of law required in proceedings conducted under the
sanction of a State. My sense of duty constrains me to dissent
from this interpretation of the supreme law of the land.
Mi. JUSTICE FIELD did not take part in the decision of this
case.

WASHER v. BULLITT COUNTY.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TE
DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
Argued February 1st, 1884.-Decided March 3d, 18.

When an amended complaint demands a sum different from that demanded
in the original, the amended and not the original complaint is to be looked
to in determining the question of jurisdiction.
At common law a county may be required or have authority to maintain a
bridge or causeway across its boundary line and extending into the territory of an adjoining county.
A statute of Kentucky which enacts that "County Courts have jurisdiction
to . . . erect and keep in repair necessary . . . bridges and other
structures and superintend the same, . . . provide for the good condi-

tion of the public highways of the county; and to execute all of its orders
consistent with law and within its jurisdiction" confers upon a County
Court authority to erect a bridge across a boundary stream and construct
approaches to it in the adjoining county.
The power conferred upon County Courts of adjoining counties by statute,
to construct bridges across boundary streams at joint expense is not exclusive, and does not take away the common-law right in each of the
counties to erect such bridges at its sole cost.

WASHER v. BULLITT COUNTY.
Statement of Facts.

This was an action at law brought by the plaintiffs in error
against the county of Bullitt, in the State of Kentucky, on a
contract dated July 8th, 1878, made between the plaintiff
Washer and the defendant county, for the construction of a
bridge by Washer over Pond Creek, the boundary between
]3ullitt and Jefferson Counties.
The contract, which is attached as an exhibit to the petition,
was executed by Washer and J. W. Ridgway, commissioner
of Bullitt County. It provided that Washer should erect an
arched stone bridge with earthen embankments across Pond
Creek, at the Branner foundation site, according to certain
specifications, for specified prices per cubic yard of masonry
and embankment. Bullitt Countr guaranteed payment for
the whole work.
The petition alleged that on August 29th, 1878, Washer
transferred by his indorsement in writing the contract made
by him with the county of Bullitt, and all moneys due to him
thereon, to his co-plaintiffs, Danenhauer and Baecker. It
averred that on December 10th, 1878, there was due to the
plaintiffs from Bullitt County on the contract the sum of.
$5,325.14, which it refused to pay, or any part thereof, "except the sum of $1,800, leaving a balance due thereon of
$3i525.14," from which latter amount was to be deducted the
sum of $340.75, which the plaintiffs had agreed might be paid
by the defendant directly to the Smith Bridge Company for
materials furnished by it for the bridge, leaving a balance due
the plaintiffs of $3,184.39.
The defendant filed a general demurrer to the petition, which
the court sustained, with leave to the plaintiffs to amend. They
afterwards filed an amended petition, in which it was averred
that before the contract mentioned in the petition was made
the owners and occupants in possession of the lands approaching the bridge on both sides of Pond Creek appeared in open
County Court, and relinquished of record the right of way to
and across the bridge; and thereafter, and before the contract
was made, the County Court of Bullitt County, being composed of the presiding judge and a majority of the justices
thereof, appointed commissioners and notified the Jefferson

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

County Court thereof, and requested it to appoint like cornmissioners to contract for the bridge, which the Jefferson
County Court did; and the commissioners so appointed met
at the place proposed for erecting the bridge, and at the place
mentioned in the contract, but could not and did not agree
upon a plan for erecting the bridge, nor contract for the erection thereof; that thereupon the County Court of Bullitt
County, composed of the county judge and a majority of the
justices of the county, decided that it was necessary to erect
the bridge, and having exhausted all meaus provided by statute
for securing the aid of Jefferson County in building the same,
decided to erect the bridge; and that, on July 16th, 1877, said
County Court, composed as aforesaid, authorized J. W. lidgway to report plans and specifications for the erection of the
bridge, and W. Carpenter, the county judge, to receive and
accept bids for the same; and that, in pursuance of this authority, the county judge accepted the bid of Washer; and
that Ridgway, being thereunto authorized by an order of the
County Court, entered into the contract with Washer appended
to the petition, and that the making of the contract was subsequently ratified by orders made and entered of record by the
County Court of Bullitt County, composed of the county
judge and a majority of the justices of the county, directing
the levy of taxes to pay for the work done under the contract, and the application of the money so raised to that purpose.
The amended petition also averred that "the bridge was
necessary for the public use of the people and travel of Bullitt
County, and that said proceedings and orders and the contract
so entered into by defendant were valid and binding upon it."
By the amended petition the allegations of the original petition in respect to the payment of 21,800 for the work done
under the contract, and in respect to the sum of $340.75 due
the Smith Bridge Company for materials for the bridge, and
the averment that there was a balance due upon work performed by the plaintiff Washer of $3,184.39, were withdrawn;
and the amended petition averred that the defendant had failed
to perform its contract or to pay plaintiffs for work done there-

WASHER v. BULLITT COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.
under, to their damage in the sum of $5,325.14, for which
amount they demanded judgment.
To this amended petition the defendant demurred on the
ground that it did not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action.
The Circuit Court sustained the demurrer, and the plaintiffs
electing to stand by their amended petition the court rendered
judgment "that the plaintiffs take nothing by their petition,.
and that the defendant go hence without day and recover of
the plaintiffs its costs," &c.
The plaintiffs sued out their writ of error.
2Jfr. Augustus E. Willson (Mr.James
for plaintiffs in error.

rlan was with him)

-Yr. James Speed for defendant in error.
WooDs delivered the opinion of the court.
The defendant in error contends that the appeal should be
dismissed because the amount in controversy is less than $5,000,
and therefore not sufficient to give this court jurisdiction.
This contention is based on the averments of the original petition, which showed that the suit was brought to recover only
$3,184.39, the balance due for work done under the contract
sued on and for $500 damages.
In the amended petition all the averments of the original
petition by which the amount in controversy was reduced below
$5,000 were withdrawn, and it was averred that the sum of
$5,325.14 was due to the plaintiffs for work done under the contract. It was as competent for the plaintiffs, when leave had
been given them to amend their petition, to amend it in respect
to the sum for which judgment was demanded as in any other
matter. The admission in the original petition of the payment
of $1,800 was specifically withdrawn in the amended petition,
and after the withdrawal of that admission it nowhere appeared in the record that said sum was ever paid. The admission might have -been made by the inadvertence or mistake of
the plaintiffs or their counsel, but however made it was within
their power to withdraw it without assigning reasons for the
Mfe. JusTIcE

VOL. cX-86

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

withdrawal. They were not inexorably bound by the averments of the original petition. When a petition is amended by
leave of the court the cause proceeds on the amended petition.
It was upon the amended petition that the judgment of the
court below was given, and the question brought here by this
writ of error is the sufficiency of the amended petition. If its
averments show that this court has jurisdiction, the jurisdiction
will be maintained without regard to the original petition. It
has been held by this court that after a case had been dismissed
by it for want of jurisdiction, the pleadings being technically
defective, the Circuit Court might allow an amendment so as
to show the jurisdiction, and on a decree newly rendered the
case might be again brought to this court. Jackson v. Asdon,
10 Pet. 480.
As the amended petition avers that there is due the plaintiffs
a sum exceeding $5,000, we are of opinion that the jurisdiction
of this court is plain upon the face of the record.
We now come to the merits of the case. The demurrer admits the execution of the contract by IRidgway, the county commissioner, under authority of an order of the County Court; its
subsequent ratification by orders of the County Court, composed
of the county judge and a majority of the justices of the county,
directing the levy of taxes to pay for work done under the
contract and directing the application of the money so raised
to that purpose; and admits that there is due the plaintiffs the
sum of $5,325.14 for the work so done. The County of Tefferson raises no objection to the building of the bridge. So far as
appears it is quite willing that Bullitt County should erect the
bridge, provided it does so at its own expense. The land
owners at the Jefferson County end of the bridge, over and on
whose premises a part of the bridge rests, make no objection.
On the contrary, they have granted a right of way to Bullitt
County over their lands to and across the bridge. The only
controversy between the parties is whether Bullitt County
had authority to make the contract sued on, by which it
undertook at its own cost to build across a boundary stream a
bridge, one end of which was within the territory of another
county.

WASHER v. BULLITT COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

The statute law of Kentucky applicable to this question is as
follows:
Section I of article 16, chapter 28 of the General Statutes of
Kentucky, page 305, provides:
" County Courts have jurisdiction to lay and superintend the
collection of the county levy, erect and keep in repair necessary
public buildings, bridges, and other structures, and superintend
the same ; regulate and control the fiscal affairs and property of
the county ;

.

provide for the good condition of the

.

public highways in the county; and to execute all of its orders
consistent with law and within its jurisdiction."
Sections 36 and 37 and 38 of art. 1, chap. 94, General
Statutes, page 767, declare as follows:
"ยง 36. When the County Court of any county shall deem it
advisable to erect a bridge or causeway over any place between
that and an adjoining county, the court shall appoint a commissioner, and notify the court of the adjoining county thereof, and
request the latter to appoint a like commissioner, and it shall be
the duty of the court so requested to appoint such commissioner.
The persons so appointed shall meet at the place so proposed for
erecting the bridge or causeway, and agree on a plan for the same,
and contract for the erection thereof ; and each of said county
courts shall levy the costs of such work on its county, in proportion
to the number of tithables in each county.
"ยง 37. When the County Court of one county shall think it expedient to build a bridge or causeway, and shall appoint a commissioner on its part as provided in the preceding section, and
the court of the adjoining county shall refuse to appoint a
commissioner,

.

.

.

the Circuit Court of the county rffusing

may issue a writ of mandamus to the County Court to show cause
why an order shall not be entered up directing the appointment
of the commissioner, and the erection of such bridge or causeway,
&c.
"ยง 38. When the mandamus is returned, the Circuit Court shall
hear and consider such evidence touching the matter ds either
party may adduce, and shall either dismiss the proceedings or
award a peremptory mandamus, as may seem proper."

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

At common law a bridge was a common highway, and the
county was bound to repair it. Reg. v. Sainthill,2 Ld. Raym.
1174; 3 Salk. 76; Rex v. IF. R. of Yorkshire, 2 East. 342.
Under the statute of 22 Henry 8, which has been held to be
merely declaratory of the common law, when part of a bridge
happened to be in one shire and the other part in another, the
respective shires were bound to repair within their respective
limits. Woolrych on Ways, 200. But when a bridge which
crossed a river dividing two counties was maintained by one
of the counties under the statute of 23 H. 8, it was held that
under the same statute it was compellable to repair the highway as a part of the bridge for a distance of three hundred feet
from each end of the bridge, although one end was in another
county.

Rex v. Inhabitantsof Devon, 14 East. 477.

It is therefore clear that at the common law a county might
be required to maintain a bridge or causeway across its
boundary line, and extending into the territory of an adjoining
county. The same rule prevails in this country.
"A county is one of the territorial divisions of a State created
for public political purposes connected with the administration of
the State government, and being in its nature and objects a municipal organization the legislature may exercise control over the
county agencies, and require such public duties and functions to
be performed by them as fall within the general scope and objects
of the municipal organization." Commissionersof Talbot County
v. Queen. Anne's County, 50 Maryland, 245.
It may even impose on one county the expense of an improvement by which it mainly is benefited, but in which the
whole State is interested. County of .Mobilev. .Kimball, 102
U. S. 691.
"A county is created almost exclusively, with a view to the
policy of the State at large, for purposes of political organization
and civil administration in matters of finance, education, pro-

vision for the poor, military organization, and of means of travel
and transportation," &c.
St. 109.

Hamilton County v. Xighels, 7 Ohio

WASHER v. BULLITT COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

In the case of Agawam v. Hampden, 130 Mmfass. 528, it was
said by the court that,
"It is well settled that the legislature may enact that a particular road or bridge shall be a public highway, or may direct it
to be laid out as such by county commissioners, and in either case
may order the cost thereof,
.
as well as the cost of
maintaining it or keeping it in repair, to be paid either by the
commonwealth or by the counties, cities, or towns in which it
lies, or which may be determined by commissioners appointed by
the counties to be specially benefited thereby."
See also _Jorwick v. County Con~msioners, 13 Pick. 60;
Attorney-Generalv. Cambfridge, 16 Gray, 241; Situate v. W eymouth, 108 Mass. 128.
It is, therefore, not open to question that the legislature may,
in its discretion, authorize or require one county to build, at
its own expense, a bridge or road across the boundary line between it and another county.
When, therefore, the legislature of Kentucky authorized the
County Court of any county to erect and keep in repair necessary public bridges, the act may well be construed to authorize
the County Court of one county to build at its own expense a
bridge, which it should adjudge *tobe necessary for the use of
the people of the county, over a stream which formed the
boundary line of the county. The power conferred upon the
County Court by. the statute of Kentucky to erect and keep in
repair necessary public bridges, includes within its terms a
bridge across the county boundary as well as one wholly within
the county limits. Unless, therefore, there is other legislation
which modifies the power thus conferred, the authority of
Bullitt County to contract for the erection of the bridge in
question is plain.
It is insisted by the defendant in error that sections 36 and
37 of article 1, chapter 94, above quoted, furnish an invariable
rule, which must be followed before the County Court can make
any contract for the erection of a bridge across the county
boundary; that is to say, the bridge must be adjudged necessary
to the people of both counties in proportion to their taxable

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

property; commissioners must be appointed for each county,
and they must agree upon the plans and enter into a contract
for the erection of the bridge; and that unless all these things
concur there can be no bridge. We think such a construction
of the statute is not tenable.
It may frequently happen that a bridge or causeway across
the boundary line between two counties maybe of vital necessity
to one and of little use to the other. It may often happen that
a county to be little or not at all benefited by a proposed
bridge may successfully oppose before the Circuit Court the
entering of an order directing the appointment of a commissioner in its behalf, or the erection of the bridge in part at
its expense in proportion to its taxable property. To hold that
the adjoining county could not under these circumstances build
at its own expense a bridge necessary for the use of its inhabitants would be an unwarrantable construction of the-statute.
In our opinion these proceedings are necessary only when
the county desiring to erect a bridge over a stream dividing it
from an adjoining county seeks to compel the adjoining county
to bear its share of the expense. If its County Court adjudges
that the bridge is necessary for the inhabitants of their county,
but is of opinion that it is not of sufficient importance to the
people of the adjoining county to justify the laying of a tax to
aid in its erection, in proportion to the taxable property of
such adjoining county, they may build the bridge at the expense of their o-wn county. It is not necessary to go through
the formalities prescribed by the statute to compel involuntary
aid from the adjoining county, when it is clear that such aid
ought not to be and cannot be exacted.
But according to the averments of the declaratidn the statute
was pursued in this case as far as was possible. The County
Court of Bullitt County appointed its commissioner and notified the fact to the County Court of Jefferson County, and
requested it to appoint a like commissioner, which it did. The
commissioners so appointed met at the place proposed for the
erection of the bridge, but they could not and did not agree
upon a plan, or make a contract for the construction of the
bridge. Nothing further could be done under sections 36 and

WASHER v. BULLITT COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

37. Bullitt County therefore fell back upon the power conferred by section 1 of article 16, chapter 28, and made a
contract by which it became responsible for the entire cost of
the bridge. Its power to do this was, we think, clear.
We find nothing in the decisions of the Court of Appeals of
Kentucky contrary to this view.
The case of Mesoa County v. Washington County, 14: B. Mon.
92, is much relied on by the defendant in error. We have been
able to see nothing in that case applicable to the controversy
in this. The proceeding was one begun in the Circuit Court
by Washington County, under section 7 of the act of 1797,
which is similar to sections 36 and 37 of article 1, chapter 94,
sup-wa, to compel the justices of Nelson County to appoint commissioners to act with commissioners appointed by Washington
County in fixing the manner and conditions of building a bridge
across Chaplin River, the boundary between the two counties,
and to show cause why they should not "lay a levy" to build
such bridge. The Court of Appeals merely decided that Nelson
County could not be compelled to levy a tax to build the bridge
until commissioners had been appointed to decide upon its site and
cost, and before it had united in the contract to build the bridge.
It is true the court said that "until a joint commission is constituted to act in obedience to the requisitions of the statutes,
neither of the counties is bound, nor can either be compelled,
to tax their citizens in any way to raise the money to build the
bridge." That might be true when the proceeding was to
compel the building of a bridge at the joint cost of the two
counties; but this remark can have no application to this case,
where one of the two counties has by her contract undertaken
to pay the entire cost of the bridge under the general power
conferred by section 1 of article 16, chapter 28.
In our opinion the County Court of Bullitt County had
power to contract for the construction, at the cost of Bullitt
County, of the bridge in question, having adjudged that it was
necessary for the public use. It follows that the demurrer to
the amended petition should have been overruled.
The judgment of the Circuit Court sustaining the demurrer
must be -reversedand the cause remanded for further proceeding8 in conformity with this o.pinion.

