McDONALD v. HOVEY.
Syllabus.

Porter Township is estopped by the recitals in the bonds from
saying that no township election was held, or that it was not
called and conducted in the particular mode required by law.
But it not estopped to show that it was without legislative authority to order the election of August 30th, 1851, and to issue
the bonds in suit. The question of legislative authority in a*
municipal corporation to issue bonds in aid of a railroad company cannot be concluded by mere recitals; but the power existing, the municipality may be estopped by recitals to prove
irregularities in the exercise of that power; or, when the law
prescribes conditions upon the exercise of the power granted,
and commits to the officers of such municipality the determination of the question whether those conditions have been performed, the corporation will also be estopped ,yrecitals which
import such performance.
.hVwjudgment is afflirrnd.
MR.JUSTICE MATTHEWS

having been of counsel, did not sit in

this case or participate in its decision.

MoDONALD v. HOVEY & Another.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Argued January 30th and 81st, 188-Dectded March 3d, 1884.

Limitations, Statute of-Statutes, Construction of.
The construction usually given to statutes of limitations, that a disability mentioned in the act must exist at the time the action accrues in order to prevent the statute from running, and that after it has once commenced toran
no subsequent disability will interrupt it, is to be given to Rev. Stat. ยง 1008,
prescribing the time within which writs of error shall be brought or appeals
taken to review in this court judgments, decreei or orders of a Circuit or
District Court in any civil action at law or in equity.
Where English statutes, such as theStatute of Frauds and the Statute of Limitations, have been adopted into our own legislation, the known and settled
construction of those statutes by courts of law has been considered as
silently incorporated into the acts, or has been received with all the weight
of authority.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.
Upon a revision of statutes a different interpretation is not to be given to them
without some substantial change of phraseology other than what may have
been necessary to abbreviate the form of the law. Pennock v. Dialogue,
2 Pet. 1, cited and approved.
The English and American cases construing statutes of limitations as affected
by disability provisos reviewed.

The only question decided in this case relates to the taking
of the appeal: It was not taken within the two years named in
Rev. Stat. ยง 1008. The appellant set up the disability of imprisonment as cause for the delay.
MAr. J. NMoble Hayes and .I&.SkS~pwitk MIrner for appellant.
.1fr. George F. Edmunds and lfr. Cha& W. Hornor for appellees.
delivered the opinion of the court.
The decree appealed from in this case was rendered on the
17th of April, 1878, and the appeal was not taken until the
6th of September, 1883. ยง 1008 of the Revised Statutes
declares that
AIR. JUSTICE BRADLEY

"-No judgment, decree, or order of a Circuit or District Court
in any civil action, at law or in equity, shall be reviewed by the
Supreme Court, on writ of error or appeal, unless the writ of
error is brought, or the appeal is taken, within two years after
the entry of such judgment, decree, or order: -Provided,That

where a party entitled to prosecute a writ of error or to take an
appeal is an infant, insane person, or imprisoned, such writ of
error may be prosecuted, or such appeal may be taken, within two
years after the judgment, decree, or order, exclusive of the term
of such disability."

As more than five years elapsed after the.entry of the decree
in this case before the appeal was taken, of course the appeal
was barred by lapse of time unless the appellant was within
one of the exceptions contained in the proviso. He claims
that he was within one of these exceptions. He states in his
petition of appeal, and the fact is not disputed, that being sued

McDONALD v. HOVEY.
Opinion of the Court.

in the city of New York upon the decree appealed from, and
judgment being rendered against him, his body was taken in
execution, and on the 7th of February, 1879, he was thrown
into the county jail of New York, where he has ever since
remained, and is now kept in close confinement. As only ten
months elapsed after the entry of the decree when the appellant was thrown into prison, and as he has been in prison ever
since, he contends that two years, exclusive of the term of his
imprisonment, had not expired when his appeal was taken.
This answer cannot avail the appellant if that construction
be given to the statute which has almost uniformly been given
to similar statutes in England and this country. The construction referred to is, that soihe or one of the disabilities mentioned in the proviso, must exist at the time the action accrues,
in order to prevent the statute from running; and that after it
has once commenced to run, no subsequent disability will interrupt it. This was the rule adopted in the exposition of the
statute of 21 Jac. 1, c. 16, the English statute of limitations in
force at the time of the first settlement of most of the American
colonies. It is provided by the seventh section of that statute,
11That if any person entitled to bring any of the personal actions
therein mentioned, shall be 'at the time of any such cause of
action given or accrued,' within the age of twenty-one years, ferne
covert, non conzpos mentis, imprisoned or beyond the seas, such

person- shall be at liberty to bring the same actions within the
times limited by the statute, after his disability has terminated."
(Angell on Lim., chap. XIX).
It is true that the express words of this statute refer to disabilities existing "at the time" the cause of action accrues, and
do not literally include disabilities arising afterwards. The
courts, however, held that such was not only the literal, but
the true and sensible meaning of the act; and that to allow
successive disabilities to protract the right to sue would, in
many cases, defeat its salutary object, and keep actions alive
perhaps for a hundred years or more; that the object of the
statute was to put an end to litigation, and to secure peace and
repose; which would be greatly interfered with and often

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

wholly subverted, if its operation were to be suspended by
every subsequently accruing disability. A very exhaustive discussion of the subject had arisen in the time of Queen Elizabeth,
in the case of Stowell v. Zoucm, Plowd. 353a, in the construction of the Statute of Fines, passed in 4 Hen. 7, c. 24, which
gave five years to persons not parties to the fine to prosecute
their right to the land; but if they were women covert, or
persons within the age of twenty-one years, in prison, or out
of the reahn, or not of whole mind at the time of the fine
levied, they were allowed five years to prosecute their claim
after the disability should cease. In that case, a person having
a claim to land, died three years after a fine was levied upon
it without commencing any suit, and leaving an infant heir;
and it was held that the heir could not claim the benefit of his
own infancy, but must commence his suit for the land within
five years from the levying of the fine; because the limitation
commenced to run against his ancestor, and having once commenced to run, the infancy of the heir did not stop it. The
same construction was given, as already stated, to the general
statute of limitations of 21 Jac. 1, before referred to. In Doe
v. Jones, 4 T. R. 300, Lord Kenyon said:
"1
1 confess I never heard it doubted till the discussion of this
case, whether, when any of the statutes of limitations had begun
to run, a subsequent disability would stop their running. If the
disability would have such an operation on the Construction of
one of those statutes, it would also on the others. I am very
clearly of opinion on the words of the statute of fines, on the uniform construction of all the statutes of limitation down to the
present moment (1791), and on the generally received opinion of
the profession on the subject, that this question ought not now
to be disturbed. It would be mischievous to refine, and to make
distinctions between the cases of voluntary and involuntary disabilities [as was attempted in that case] ; but in both cases, when
the disability is once removed, the time begins to run."
To the same effect are Doe v. Jesson, 6 East, 80, and many
cases in this country referred to in Angell on Limitations, qua
supra, and in Wood on Limitations, sect. 251. In a case that

McDONALD v. HOVEY.
Opinion of the Court.
came to this court from Kentucky, in 1816, Ch. Justice Marshall
said:
"The counsel for the defendants in error have endeavored to
maintain this opinion by a construction of the statute of limitations of Kentucky. They contend, that after the statute has
begun to run, it stops, if the title passes to a person under any
legal disability, and recommences after such disability shall be
removed. This construction, in the opinion of this court, is not
justified by the words of the statute. Its language does not vary
essentially from the language of the statute of James, the construction of which has been well settled; and it is to be construed as that statute, and all other acts of limitation founded
on it, have been construed." T'alden. v. Gcati'sHfeirs, 1 Wheat.
292, 296.

And in the subsequent case of .fercer's Lessee v. SelZdn, 1
How. 37, 51, the court took the same view in a case arising in
the State of Virginia, in which the right of action accrued to
one Jane Page, an infant within the exception of the statute;
and it was insisted that her marriage before she was twentyone added to her first disability (of infancy) that of coverture.
But the court held otherwise, and decided that only the period
of infancy, and not that of coverture, could be added to the
time allowed her for bringing the action. The same doctrine
was held in'Eagerv. Commonwealth, 4 Mass. 182; Fitzhugh v.
Anderson, 2 Hen. & Ifun. 306; Parsons v. .2eCrackeen, 9
Leigh, 495-; Demarest v. 1Vynkoop, 3 Johns. Ch. 129; Bunce
v. Tolcott, 2 Conn. 27.
In most of the State statutes of limitation the clauses of exception or provisos in favor of persons laboring under disabilities employ terms equivalent to those used in the English
statute, exTressly limiting the exception to cases of disability
existing when the cause of action accrues. But this is not
always the case. The statutes of N ew York in force prior to
the Revised Statutes limited the time for bringing real actions
to twenty-five years after seizin or possession had, and the proviso in favor of persons laboring under disabilities was in these
words:

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

"Provided always, That no part of the time during which the
plaintiff, or person making avowry or cognizance, shall have been
within the age of twenty-one years, insane, feme covert, or imprisoned, shall be taken as part of the said limitation of twenty1 Rev. Laws, 1813, p. 185, sect. 2; 2 Greenleafs
five years."
Laws, 95, sect. 6.
It will be observed that this proviso is stronger in favor of
cumulative and subsequently accruing disabilities than that of
the act of Congress which we are now considering; yet the
Supreme Court of New York, and subsequently this court, gave
it the same construction in reference to such disabilities as had
always been given to the English statute of fines and statute of
limitations. In the case of Bradstreet v. Clarke, 12 Wend.
602, which was a writ of right, and was argued by the most
eminent counsel of the State, it was strenuously contended that
the proviso referred to, being different from that of the English statutes in not referring to disabilities existing when the
cause of action accrued, a different construction ought to be
given to it, and the disabilities named, though commencing
subsequently, and even after the statute began to run, ought
to be held to interrupt it. The court, however, did not concur
in this view, but held that the coverture of the demandant
occurring after the statute began to run could not be set up
against its operation. Mr. Justice Sutherland said:
"It is believed that the same construction has uniformly been
given to this proviso in this respect as to that in relation to possessory actions [contained in a different section of the act], that
where the statute has once begun to run a subsequently accruing
disability will not impede or suspend it."
Although the case did not finally turn on this point, the
attention given to it by counsel and the apparent unanimity of
the court, then consisting of Savage, chief justice, and Sutherland and Nelson, justices, give to that opinion a good deal of
weight.
The same question afterwards arose in this court in the case
of Tworp v. Raymond, 16 How. 247. That was an action

McDONALD v. HOVEY.
Opinion of the Court.

of ejectment, used in place of a writ of right, to try the fitle to
lands in New York. The plaintiff's grandmother acquired a
right of entry to the lands in 1801, but was then inisane, and
remained so till her death in 1822. Her only daughter, and
heir, was a married woman, and remained such till the death
of her husband in 1832. The action was not commenced until
1850. The plaintiff contended that, under the proviso referred
to, the daughter's disability of coverture ought to be added to
the mother's disability of insanity; and that this would save
the action from the bar of the statute, whether under the limitation of twenty-five years or that of twenty years. But the
court held that the disabilities could not be connected in this
way. :Mr. Justice Nelson, delivering the opinion, and having
shown that the proposed cumulation was inadmissible under
the third section of the act, considering the action as one of
ejectment, disposed of the other view as follows:
"But it is supposed that the saving clause in the second section of this act, which prescribes a limitation of twenty-five years
as a bar to a writ of right, is different, and allows cumulative disabilities; and as ejectment is a substituted remedy in the court
below for the writ of right, it is claimdd the defendant is bound
to make out an adverse possession of twenty-five years, deducting
successive or cumulative disabilities. This, however, is a mistake. The saving clause in this second section, though somewhat
different in phraseology, has received the same construction in the
courts of New York as that given to the third section." [Citing
the case of Bradstreet v. Clarke, in the decision of which the
learned justice had participated.]
The statute of limitations of Texas is another instance in
which language is used quite different from that of the English
statute. After prescribing kvarious limitations, the eleventh
section provides for disabilities, as follows:
"No law of limitations, except in the cases provided for in the
eighth section of this act, shall run against infants, married
women, persons imprisoned, or persons of unsound mind, during
the existence of their respective disabilities; and when the law of
limitations did not commence to run prior to. the existence of
voL. cx--40

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

these disabilities, such persons shall have the same time allowed
them after their removal that is allowed to others by this and
other laws of limitations now in force." Oldham & White, Art.
1352.
According to the literal sense of this section, if one disability
should prevent the statute from running until another supervened, the latter would be equally effectual to interrupt it.
But the Supreme Court of Texas, in White v. Latimer, 12
Texas, 61, held otherwise, and decided that one disability cannot be tacked on to another; but that the long-established rule
in construing statutes of limitations must be applied. The
court say:
"The llth section of the statute is not in its terms materially
different from the exception contained in the statute of James,
and cannot claim a different construction from that ; and a departure from the"rule so long and well established, that it applies
to the particular disability existing at the time the right of action
accrued, would introduce the evil so strongly deprecated by the
most eminent English and American judges, of postponing actions
for the trial of rights of property to an indefinite period of time,
by the shifting of disabilities, from infancy to coveiture, and
again from coverture to infancy, an evil destructive of the best
interests of society, and forbidden by the most sound and imperious policy of the age."
The authority of these cases goes far to decide the one before
us. The proviso in the 1ew York statute certainly was
more general in its terms in describing the disabilities which
would stay the operation of the statutes-described them more
independently of the time when the cause of action accruedthan the act of Congress under consideration; and the courts,
in giving it the construction.they did, seemed to be largely influenced by the established interpretation given to similar
statutes inpari qn.ateria,without having in the statute construed
any express words to require such a construction. But in the
case before us, the fair meaning of the wordB leads to the same
result. The language is as follows:

McDONALD v. HOVEY.
Opinion of the Court.

shall be reviewed in
"No judgment, decree or order
of error is brought
writ
the
unless
.
Court,
the Supreme
or the appeal is taken within two years after the entry of such
judgment, decree or order: Provided,That where a party entitled to prosecute a writ of error or to take an appeal is an infant,
insane person, or imprisoned, such writ of error may be prosecuted or such an appeal may be taken within two years after the
judgment, decree, or order, exclusive of the term of such disability."

"Isan infant," whenT "18 an insane person, or imprisoned,"
when? Evidently, whei the judgment, decree or order is
entered. That is the point of time to which the attention is
directed. The evident meaning is, that if the party is an infant, insane, or in prison when the judgment or decree is entered,
and therefore when he or she becomes entitled to the writ of
error or appeal, the time to take it is extended. In all the old
statutes this was expressed in some form or other; this was
their settled meaning. It will also be deemed to be the meaning of this statute unless its language clearly calls for a different
meaning. But, as seen, it does not.
Section 1008 of the Revised Statutes was taken directly from
the "Act to further the administration of justice," approved
June 1st, 1872, and is a mere transcript from the second section
of that act. 17 Stat. 196. But this was a revision of the
twenty-second section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, and if we
turn back to that section we shall find that, with regard to the
point under consideration, its language was, in effect, substantially the same as that of the present law. It was as follows:
"Writs of error shall not be brought but within five years after
rendering or passing the judgment or decree complained of; or
in case the person entitled to stich writ of error be an infant, feme
covert, non compos mentis, or imprisoned, then within five years
as aforesaid, exclusive of the time of such disability."
"Be an infant," wken? "Be a feme covert, wn eompo ,
or imprisoned," when? The same answer must be given as
before, namely: when he or she becomes entitled; i.e., when
the judgment or decree is entered.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

The phraseology of the act of 1872, and of the 1008th
section of the Revised Statutes is so nearly identical with
that of the 22d section of the act of 1789, in reference to the
point under consideration, that we must presume they were
intended to have the same construction, and the act of 1*789
contains no language which requires that it should have a
different construction from that which had long been established in reference to all the statutes of limitation then known,
whether in the mother country or in this. On the contrary, as
we have seen, the terms of the act of 1789 fairly call for the
same constru6tion which had for centuries prevailed in reference
to those statutes.
It is a received canon of construction, acquiesced in by this
court,
",
That where English statutes, such, for instance, as the Statute
of Frauds and the Statute of Limitations, have been adopted into
our own legislation, the known and settled construction of those
statutes by courts of law has been considered as silently incorporated into the acts, or has been received with all the weight of
authority."

.Pennock v. Dialogue, 2 Pet. 1, 18;

Smith's Com-

mentaries on Stat. and Const. Law, ยง 634 ; Sedgwick on Constructtion of Stat. and Const. Law, 363.
And even where inadvertent changes have been made by
incorporating different statutes together, it has been held not
to change their original construction. Thus, in New Jersey,
where several English statutes had been consolidated, a proviso
in one of them, broad enough in its terms to affect the whole
consolidated law, was held to 'affect only those sections with
which it had been originally connected.
said:

Chief Justice Green

"Where two or more statutes, whose construction has been
long settled, are consolidated into one, without any change of
phraseology, the same construction ought to be put upon the consolidated act as was given to the original statutes. A different
construction ought not to be adopted if thereby the policy of the
act is subverted or its material provisions defeated."
In e
.Murphy, 3 Zab. 180.

. cDONALD v. HOVEY.
Opinion of the Court.

So, upon a revision of statutes, a different interpretation is
not to be given to them without some substabitial change of
phraseology-some change other than what may have been
necessary to abbreviate the form of the law. Sedgwick on
Const. Stat. 365. As said by the New York Court for the
Correction of Errors, in Taylor v. Delaneey, 2 Caines' Cas. 143,
150:
"Where the law antecedently to the revision was settled, either
by clear expiessions in the statutes, or adjudications on them, the
mere change of phraseology shall not be deemed or construed a
change of the law, unless such phraseology evidently purports an
intention in the legislature to work a change." And see Yates'
Case, 4 Johns. 317; Theriat v. Hart, 2 Hill, 380; _Parmelee v.
Thompson, 7 Hill, 77; Goodell v. Jackson, 20 Johns. 693; Croswell v. Crane, 7 Barb. 191. "The construction will not be
changed by such alterations as are merely designed to render the
provisions more precise." .ooers v. -Bunker, 29 N. H. 421.
So the Supreme Court of Alabama has held that the legislature of that State in adopting the Code, must be presumed to
have known the judicial construction which had been placed oA
the former statutes; and, therefore, the re-enactment in the
Code of provisions substantially the same as those contained
in a former statute is a legislative adoption of their known judicial construction. -Duramusv. H rrison, 26 Ala. 326.
"A change of phraseology in a revision will not be regarded as
altering the law where it had been well settled by plain language
in the statutes, or by judicial construction thereof, unless it is
clear that such was the intent." Sedgwick on Construction, 2d
ed. 229, note.*

Of course, a change of phraseology which necessitates a
change of construction will be deemed as intended to make a
change in the law. Young v. 1)ake, 1 Seld. 463.
In view of these authorities and of the principles involved in
*Referring to Hughes v. Farrar,45 Me. 72; Burnham v. Stevens, 33 N. H.
247; Overfiel v. Sutton, 1 Mete. (Ky.) 621; Mc2lfamara v. Minnesota Centra
Railtway Company, 12 Minm. 88; Congerv. Barker, 11 Ohio St. 1.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

them, and from a careful consideration of the language of the
law itself, we are satisfied that it was not the intention of Congress, either in the 22d section of the act of 1789, or in the 2d
section of the act of 1872, or in the 1008th section of the Revised
Statutes, to change the rule which had always, from the
time of Henry Seventh, been applied to statutes of limitation,
namely, the rule that no disability will postpone the operation
of the statute unless it exists when the cause of action accrues;
and that when the statute begins to run no subsequent disability
will interrupt it.
This conclusion disposes of the case. As the appellant was
free from any disability for several months after the entry of
the decree appealed from, the statute commenced to run at
that time, and, therefore, the time for taking the appeal expired several years before it was actually taken.
The apeal is terefo'e dismissed.

WAPLES v. UNITED STATES.
APPFAL FROM THE COURT OF C6LAM.
Argued January 2d, 1884.-Decided March Sd, IM

Confimation-Deed-J'udicialsaSe.

In a sale under the Confiscation Act, of July 17th, 1862, 12 Stat. 589, the purchaser is presumed to know that if the offender had no estate in the premises at the time of seizure, nothing passed to the United States by decree or
to him by purchase, and general language of description in his deed will
not operate as a warranty or affect this presumption; and this rule prevails
as to the United States, although a different rule may prevail in the State
where the property is situated as to judicial sales under State laws.

Mr. . W. ifornor and 21r. 2 ason Day for appellant.
Mr. Solicitor-Generalfor appellee submitted the case on his
brief.
M2n. JusricE FELD delivered the opinion of the court.
In March, 1865, the plaintiff purchased for the sum of $7,400

