OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

by the subsequent statute. Any statutory alteration of the
legal rules of evidence which would authorize conviction upon
less proof, in amount or degree, than was required when the
offence was committed, might, in respect of that offence, be obnoxious to the constitutional inhibition upon ex2 ostfacto laws.
But alterations which do not increase the punishment, nor
change the ingredients of the offence or the ultimate facts necessary to establish guilt, but-leaving untouched the nature of
the crime and the amount or degree of proof essential to conviction-only remove existing restrictions upon the competency of certain classes of persons as witnesses, relate to modes
of procedure only, in which no one can be said to have a vested
right, and which the State, upon grounds of public policy, may
regulate at pleasure. Such regulations of the mode in which
the facts constituting guilt may be placed before the jury, can
be made applicable to prosecutions or trials thereafter had,
without reference to the date of the commission of the offence
charged.
Jidgment reversed.

SWANN

v. WRIGHT'S EXECUTOR & Another.

APPEAL FROM THE

CIRCurr

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FO

H

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.
Argued December 18th, 19th, 183.-Decided March 3d, 1884.

Eato8pe7--ForeclosureSale- fortgage.
A purchaser of a railroad at a sale under decree of foreclosure of a first mortgage, and of sale of the mortgaged property, which recites that the sale shall
be made subject to liens established or to be established (on references before
had or then pending, to a master, with right to bondholders to appear and
oppose) as prior and superior liens to the lien of the bonds issued under the
mortgage, cannot dispute the validity of the liens thus established, even on

the ground of fraud alleged to have been discovered after confirmation of
the master's report fixing the amount of the liens.
Whether holders of the mortgage bonds may not contest such liens, and, if
successful, be substituted to so much thereof as was established for the
benefit of the fraudulent claims is not decided.

SWANN v. WRIGHT'S EXECUTOR.
Opinion of the Court.

The facts making the case are fully stated in the opinion of
the court..
.X. David O7opton and .Mr. . F. Rice for appellant.
Xr..

oorfeld Storey and XrA.P. Hamilto, for appellees.

Yn. JusICF,HAR La delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a final decree dismissing a bill filed
by John Swann against the executors of John S. Wright and
the Alabama Great Southern Railroad Company, a corporation
created under the laws of Alabama. Swann was the assignee
of Wilder and McMllen, who were the purchasers at the sale
in a foreclosure suit instituted on the 30th of May, 1872, by
the trustees for the holders of bonds of the Alabama and Chattanooga IRailroad Company, secured by a first mortgage upon
its road, rights, franchises and property. With the assent of
Wilder and McMillen, Swan was reported, as purchaser, and
the sale being confirmed a deed was made to hiL Subsequently he conveyed all his right, title and interest to the Alabama Great Southern Railroad Company.
The complainant seeks to reopen the long-protracted contest
in the foreclosure suit, between the first mortgage bondholders
and the executors of John S. Wright, as to whether certain
claims of the latter were liens upon the mortgage security.
Appellees urge as a controlling consideration that the first
mortgage bondholders acquiesce in the allowance of the Wright
claims as having priority of lien over them; and they also
contend that, in view of the several orders in the fore6losure
suit, particularly the decree under which the sale of the mortgage property was had, and under which Swann claimed and
received a deed, he has no standing in a court of equityto
question the allowance of the Wright claims as superior liens
upon the property. This proposition is controverted by appellant.
In order that appellant's relations to the property may be
understood, and the questions involved in this appeal clearly
comprehended, it is necessary to examine, somewhat in chronological order, the various steps taken in the foreclosure suit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

By an order made, in that suit, on the 26th day of August,
1872, Lewis Rice and W. J. Haralson were appointed.receivers,
with authority to put the Alabama and Chattanooga railroad
and other property embraced in the first mortgage in repair;
to complete any uncompleted portions thereof; to procure
rolling stock, machinery, and other necessary things for operating the road; and to manage it to the best advantage, so as
not only to prevent the property-then in a dilapidated condition, and being recklessly wasted-from further deterioration, but to preserve it for the benefit as well of the first mortgage bondholders as of all others having an interest in it. It
was also ordered that all claims on account of moneys raised
through the receivers by loan, or upon advances for the foregoing purposes, not exceding $1,200,000, "shall be a first lien,
prior to all others, on the said railroad and other property, and
to be paid for, before the said first mortgage bondholders, out
of the proceeds of said property." The receivers were directed
to issue certificates for moneys so raised, the loan to be made
upon such terms as they might deem expedient:
"4Provided,that said certificates shall not be disposed of for
less than ninety cents. to the dollar of their face, and, also provided, that interest thereon shall not be allowed at a greater rate
than eight per cent. per annum, payable half-yearly; and such
certificates shall not be issued until the same shall be countersigned by a majority of the trustees for said first mortgage bondholders, without which countersigning they shall not be entitled
to the.lien and priority aforesaid."

On the 23d day of January, 1874, a decree was passed for a
sale of all the mortgage property as an entirety-the purchaser,
upon confirmation of the sale and payment of the purchase
money, to receive a conveyance, in fee simple, of all the right,
title, and interest of the company, and of all persons claiming
under it, in the railroad, premises, franchises, and property
covered by the mortgage, and free from the claim of the defendants in that suit.
It was further decreed that the proceeds to arise from the
sale, and which had arisen or should arise, in the hands of the

SWANN v. WRIGHT'S EXECUTOR.
Opinion of the Court.

receivers, from the prosecution of the business of the company,
or which had arisen or might arise in any other way from the
property, are in law and equity liable to be applied in the following order: First. To the necessary expenses incident to the
execution and due preservation of the trust created by the
mortgage, including reasonable compensation to trustees and
their counsel, and to the receivers, and all legal and necessary
expenses then remaining unpaid, which had been properly incurred, with the authority of the court, in relation to the property. Second. To the payment of all taxes, charges, assessments, and liens prior in law to the lien of the mortgage; all
sums expended in perfecting the title to the right of way, or to
any property formerly claimed by the company and then claimed
to be embraced by the mortgage; and "all liabilities incurred
by the receivers, including such receivers' certificates or other
receivers' indebtedness as may be sanctioned or ordered to be
paid by this court, in accordance with the provisions hereinbefore
contained." [Tird. To the payment of such of the first mortgage bonds, with their interest warrants, as may be reported
by the master to have been bona ftde issued and to be outstanding and unpaid. Fourth. The residue to be subject to such
order and priority in distribution as the court should establish
and decree, reserving for future consideration certain described
bonds.

By the same decree it was declared:
"that all moneys which have been raised by said receivers by loan,
or which may have been advanced by them for the purposes afore-

said, and which shall be ascertained by the decretal orders of this
court'to have been expended, or which may be expended, for the
purposes contemplated by and in accordance With the said orders of
this court, not exceeding the sum of $1,200,000, shall be a first lien

prior to all others on the said railroad and other property, and to be
paid before the said first mortgage bonds out of the proceeds of said
property; and nothing in this decree

.

.

.

shall impair the

claims or righfs of the creditors of the receivers appointed under
either of said orders, or the owners of certificates issued by said
receivers under said orders, or the holders of said certificates under
voL. cx-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

hypothecation to the extent of money loaned and advanced on the
same for the purposes aforesaid, with the interest and expense
added thereto."
The cause was referred to Joseph W. Burke, as special commissioner, with directions to report all amounts necessary and
proper to be paid out of the proceeds of sale as indicated by the
decree.
On the 25th of April, 1874, an order was entered, upon the
petition of the bondholders, suspending the sale of the property
until the matters involved and under reference should be reported on and settled by the court; and allowing bondholders
to appear in their own right before the commissioner and the
court, and to contest any and all demands embraced by the
order of reference, or that might arise before the court touching
the property to be sold.
The reports of Commissioner Burke, made June 18th, 1874,
and May 31st, 1875, show, that among the claims contested
before, and allowed by him, were two by John S. Wrightthose already referred to-one based upon receivers' certificates
*issued by Rice and Haralson, amounting, principal and interest,
to $52,000, and the other, based upon like certificates, aggregating $56,444.44, which had been hypothecated to Wright as
security for money advanced, as was alleged, to the receivers.
For reasons, not disclosed by the record, this report was not
satisfactory to the parties; and, by an order of June l1th, 1875,
the court approved and gave effect to a written agreement Between the contesting bondholders, the trustees, and the holders
of receivers' certificates, whereby it was stipulated that the
matters of reference involved in the cause should be referred to
some well known lawyer and thorough business man, with authority to inquire into and settle the same. That agreement
provided that such settlement should be final between the
parties thereto, when confirmed by the court. Philip Phillips
was thereupon appointed a special commissioner, with directions
to review and re-examine, so-far as the parties desired, the matters theretofore referred. If any of the receivers' certificates
were objected to by either party, the commissioner was directed

SWANN v. WRIGHT'S EXECUTOR
Opinion of the Court.

to inquire and report whether they were issued and used in
accordance with the orders in the cause, what disposition was
made of them, what certificates should be allowed, and what
rejected. Among the claims re-examined were those held by
Wright. They were allowed, as shown by his report dated
September 8th, 1875, and filed November 18th, 1875.
The cause was heard upon exceptions to the reports of Commissioners Burke and Phillips, and a comprehensive order made
on the 14th day of February, 1876. As to the Wright claims,
the order provided that nothing be then allowed thereon, and
that:
"The whole matter of said claims, in respect of said sale, loan,
and hypothecation [of receivers' certificates in the hands of
*Wright], and all circumstances connected with said transactions,
be and the same are hereby referred to Lyman Gibbons as special
master commissioner to take evidence upon, examine into and re-port upon said matters fully, with the evidence taken by him.
Upon the coming in and confirmation of said special master's
report the court will make a further decree thereon."
On the 4th of December, 1876--no report having been
then made upon the Wright claims by the commissioner
last appointed-the court made a decree for the sale of
the mortgaged property, to take place on the 22d day of
January, 1877. That decree provided that the sale "shall
be subject to the liens established, or which may be established, by said court in this cause on references heretofore
had and now pending, as prior and superior to the lien of the
holders of bonds issued under the first mortgage, decreed to
be foreclosed by former decree in said cause;" further, "that
all money paid as earnest under this decree "-the sum of
$300,000 was required for that purpose-" shall forthwith be
reported to this court and be subject to its order, and that upon
the confirmation of the sale made under this decree the purchaser shall have and be invested with a good title to the said
railroad and property sold under this decree, subject only to
what may remain unpaid of the claims and liens established by
this court as paramount and superior to the liens of the first

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the CourL

mortgage and first mortgage bondholders ;" still further, the
balance of the purchaser's bid remaining after paying said
earnest money was directed to be paid in such manner and at
such time as the court may direct, "except that said balance
may be paid by the purchaser in any claims which may have
been established by the court in this cause as paramount and
superior to the lien of said first mortgage and said first mortgage bondholders."
It has already been stated that Wilder and NMc illen became
the purchasers of the property. The amount bid by them was
$600,000. Swann succeeded to their rights by an agreement
made March 30th, 1877. The sale was reported to court on
April 3d, 1877, the report showing that the benefits of the
purchase had been transferred to Swann. Four days thereafter, April 7th, 1877, Commissioner Gibbons made his report
in relation to the Wright claims, sustaining the conclusions
reached by Commissioner Phillips, and expressing his entire
conviction that those claims were correct and just.
On the 13th of June, 1877, that report came up for consideration. Swann, in his capacity as purchaser of the mortg-aged
property, moved that the Wright claims be re-submitted to the
commissioner, with leave to produce additional evidence in
opposition to them. That motion was denied. He then asked
leave to file exceptions to the report. That application was
also denied, and the report was in all things confirmed.
On the 15th of June, 1877, the sale to Swann was confirmed.
By the decree of confirmation conveyances were required to be
executed to him, covering all the property and rights purchased.
It also provided that the deeds of conveyance
"Shall severally contain a provision to the effect that the same

are made and executed, and the estate thereby granted and
conveyed is made, executed, granted, and conveyed subject
to all liens established at and before the decree made in this
cause on the 4th day of December, 1876, or which may have
been or may be established by this court in the cause, on refer-

ence heretofore had, and then pending, as prior and superior
to the lien of the holders of bonds issued under the first mortgage,

SWANN v. WRIGHT'S EXECUTOR.
Opinion of the Court
decreed to be foreclosed by a former decree in said cause, so far
as the several amounts secured by said prior liens remained unpaid at the time of said sale, and subject to the terms and requirements of this decree imposed upon or affecting the said purchaser
...
. And it is hereby declared and decreed that the said sale
was and is subject to such prior liens (and that the said property
is and shall be bound therefor, and fpr all interest that may accrue
thereon; and also subject to the same terms and requirements of
this decree last above mentioned)." [Again, in the same decree:]
"It is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed that the said sale
was made subject to the payment of all valid and outstanding
receivers' certificates heretofore established as valid by decree of
this court or by this decree, including those which have been suspended on account of liability of the holders thereof on any
official bond or bonds of any receiver or trustee, or on account of
the indebtedness of such holder or holders to the trust fund ; but
the amount due or to become due on such suspended, certificates
shall be paid, according to the tenor thereof, into this court in
liquidation of such official bond or bonds, and of such indebtedness of the holder or holders thereof to the trust fund, to be disposed of as the court shall further direct."
This suit was commenced February 18th, 1878, after Swann
had sold and conveyed such rights as he had acquired to the
Alabama Great Southern Railroad Company. It proceeds
upon the general ground that the transaction by which John
S. Wright 6btained the receivers' certificates in question was,
as between him on one side and a trustee in the first mortgage
and one of the receivers on the other side, in known violation
of their respective duties, and contrary to law and public
policy; also, that Wright and his executors had, by fraud and
imposition and by a concealment of the real facts, obtained, as
well from the special masters the favorable reports hereinbefore referred to, as from the court, the decree confirming the
report last made. It was dismissed by the court below, not
only because, upon the showing, no case was made on the
merits for the relief asked, but because the orders and decrees
under which the sale was had and confirmed, and the deed
made, required Swanm to pay the liens established by the court

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

in the foreclosure suit, and precluded him from disputing them
after they had been so established.
In our view of this case it is unnecessary to determine
whether the bill is one of review for new evidence or an original
bill to impeach a decree for fraud, or an original bill in the nature
of a bill of review; for we are of opinion that, whether belonging
to one class or the other, it was properly dismissed. The claim
of appellant, as the purchaser of the property, to reopen the
litigation, to which he was not a party, and whii related to
liens expressly subject to which the property was sold, purchased, and conveyed, and which liens were fully examined
upon issues between and notice to those who, -at the time the
decree of sale was rendered, were alone interested in their
recognition or rejection, does not seem to rest upon any foundation of justice or equity. We have seen that the original
purpose of those promoting the foreclosure suit was to have
the mortgaged property sold, at an early day after the commencement of the litigation, entirely free from encumbrance,
leaving the court to provide, out of the proceeds of sale, for the
expenses of the trust, and to make such distribution of the.
balance as was consistent with the rights of those having an
interest in or liens upon the property. But this idea was
abandoned, at the instance of the bondholders, and the sale
suspended in order to ascertain, if possible, before sale, the
exact amount of all claims superior to the lien. given by the
mortgage. Among those alleged to be of that character were
the claims presented originally by Wright and subsequently
prosecuted by his executors. They were vigorously .contested
before Commissioners Burke and Phillips by those who were
directly interested in defeating them, namely, the bondholders
and their trustees. They received the approval of each of these
commissioners; and while they were under examination by
Commissioner Gibbons, before whom that contest was renewed,
the court, feeling doubtless that the sale of the mortgaged
property had been already deferred sufficiently long, made an
order for its sale on a day named. That order materially
modified .the original decree. Instead of selling the property
free of all encumbrances, so that the purchaser, as a con-

SWArNY

v. WRIGHTS EXECUTOR.
Opinion of the CourL

dition of receiving a complete title, would only be required
to pay the amount bid, the sale was ordered expressly
subject, not simply to liens which had then (December 4th,
1876), been established as prior and superior to the lien of
the bondholders, but to all liens of that character which might
be established on references theretofore ordered, and then
pending. The claims of Wright were being pressed before
the special commissioner as belonging to that class. The latter had before him all parties in interest, either in person or
by representation. And his examination was being conducted
under a reference previously made, and then pending. So that,
as respects these claims, purchasers were explicitly warned that
they must buy the property, and take title thereto, subject to
their future allowance by the court. That warning was as
distinct as if the claims had been specifically described in the
decree by the names of the parties prosecuting them. Wilder
and McMillen, therefore, purchased, and their assignee or vendee obtained the property, subject to a prior lien in favor of
Wright's estate, if any such lien should be thereafter established on pending references. And although Swann has conveyed the property to the Alabama Great Southern :Railroad
Company, not only without covenants of warranty, but with
a clause in the deed distinctly declaring that it shall not be
construed "to express or imply any covenant" by him, he now
asks the court to recognize his right, as purchaser, upon newly
discovered evidence, to show that the lien established in behalf
of Wright's estate ought not to have been recognized. When
his assignors or vendors purchased, they knew, or, by inspection of the record, could have known of the pendency of the
Wight claims. Before the sale was confirmed the court declined to permit him, as purchaser, to reopen the dispute as to
those claims. He made no suggestion that he purchased in
ignorance, either of their existence, or of the reservation by the
court of its right to establish them as superior liens uppn the
property; nor that they had been allowed for larger amounts
than originally contended for; nor did he ask, in view of their
allowance, that he be permitted to surrender his purchase, so
that the property could be resold for the benefit, primarily, of

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

those having first liens. On the contrary, without objection
from him, the sale was confirmed, upon the condition, explicitly declared in the order of court, that the purchaser bought
subject to all liens of the character described in the decree of
sale, and that such subordination of his and their rights to
those liens should be expressed in the conveyance to him. The
conveyance was so drawn, and was accepted by him; and in
his deed to the Alabama Great Southern Railroad Company,
under date of November 30th, 1877, he states that the conveyance to him "of said railroad, equipments, appurtenances, and
property has been executed and delivered " by commissioners
of court, "in accordance with the orders and decrees of said
court." He here proceeds upon the assumption that, while
asserting title in himself, under and by virtue of the decree of
sale, he may claim the aid of a court of equity in repudiating
the essential conditions upon which he received title; and,
that, too, without offering, or being in a condition to offer, a
return of the property, in which contingency-the Wright
claims being disallowed-it might be resold for the benefit of
the bondholders, unencumbered by those claims. The property
was sold with the possibility, present in the minds as well of
the partie in the foreclosure suit as of purchasers, that the
latter would be required to take subject to a lien in behalf of
Wright's estate; and, consequently, that to the extent of such
lien, the first mortgage bondholders would fail in having their
demands satisfied out of the property. If, therefore, the appellant were granted the relief asked, the result-upon his
theory of the respective rights of himself and the bondholders
-would be, not to benefit those who caused the property to
be sold, but, in effect, to give the amount of the Wright claims
to Swann; or, if not to him, then indirectly to the company
to which he has conveyed, and which must assert its rights,
whenever assailed, under one who has taken title expressly
subject to a lien in favor of those claims.
It may be observed, in this connection, that the appellant's
counsel lay great stress upon that part of the order of JTne
15th, 1877, which declares that the sale, then confirmed, had
been made subject to the payment of "all valid and outstand-

SWAIN v. WRIGHT'S EXECUTOR.
Opiuion of the Court.

ing receivers' certificates." They insist that the certificates to
Wright were not valid, because obtained, as alleged, by fraud
and imposition, and in violation of the duty of the trustee and
receiver who conducted the negotiations with Wright. It is
sufficient to say, that, according to any proper interpretation of
that order, all receivers' certificates were to be deemed valid, so
far as purchasers were concerned, that were within the aggregate amount limited for certificates, and which, being embraced
in references theretofore made or then pending, had been, or
might be, established, between the holders and the mortgagees, as liens upon the property.
If the court had, in the decree of sale, reserved to the purchaser, although not a party to the proceedings, the right to
appear and contest any alleged liens then under examination,
and, therefore, not established by the court, an entirely different question would have been pres6nted. But no such reservation was made; and the purchaser was required, without q'ualification, to take the property, upon confirmation of the sale,
subject to the liens already established, or which might, on
pending references, be established as prior and superior to the
liens of the first mortgage bondholders. We do not mean to
decide that the bondholders, as such (had they moved in due
time), might not have maintained a suit like the present one,
and, if successful, required the purchaser to pay them an additional amount equal to the claims established for the benefit of
Wright's estate. Upon the question involved in that suggestion we express no opinion. All that we decide is, that in view
of the express terms of the decree of sale, and since neither the
purchaser nor his grantee proposes to surrender the property to
b resold for the benefit of those concerned, such purchaser has
no standing in court for the purpose of re-litigating the liens expressly subject to which he bought and took title. The allegations of fraud and imposition alleged to have been practised by
Wright and others by means whereof, it is contended, the
claims in question were approved and established-whatever
consideration they would have been entitled to in a suit brought
by the bondholders-do not present matters which, under the
circumstances, concern the appellant as purchaser of the prop-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

erty. If the receiver and trustee referred to in the bill were
guilty of fraud and imposition in respect of the Wright claims,
it was competent for the bondholders and the parties interested
in the property, before title was passed to the purchaser, to
waive any grounds of complaint which they may have had on
that account. And they had the right to acquiesce, and so far
as the record discloses, have acquiesced in their allowance,
thereby consenting that the proceeds of sale, to the amount of
such claims, should be applied in payment thereof, rather than
in satisfaction of their own defhands. The appellant presents
no grounds upon which he can be relieved from his obligation
to comply with the terms of purchase as set forth in the decree
of sale and as expressed as well in the order of confirmation, as
in the conveyance to him.
Upon the grounds indicated the decree is

Aflrmee.

SWANN

& Others v. CLARK & Others.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHER-N DISTRICT OF ALAD

A.

Argued December 18th, 19th, 1883.-Decided March 3d, 1834

Conract-Eqdty-Hypothean-f?-. rtgae-eeiver.
While a railroad was in the hands of a receiver, appointed in a suit for the
foreclosure of a mortgage upon it, the court authorized the receiver to borrow money and to issue certificates of indebtedness, to be a lien upon the
property prior to the mortgage debt, and to part with them at a rate not
less than ninety cents on the dollar. The receiver borrowed money on hypothecation of some of these certificates. The property was decreed to be
sold subject to liens established on then pending references. Held, That
the hypothecated certificates were not liens to the extent of their face, but
that a decree directing the debts secured by them to be paid in them at the
rate of ninety cents on the dollar to the extent of the money actually
advanced, and making that amount of certificates a lien, would be upheld
in equity.

.Yr. -DavidCk/ton and )fr. iS.F. Rice for appellants.
Xr. .t1oortld &torey and .A1.. P. Namlton for appellees.

