OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

AMERICAN FILE COMPANY & Another v. GARRETT
& Another.
SAYLES & Another v. GARRETT & Another.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF RHODE ISLAND.
Argued January 16th, 17th, 1634.-Decided January 25th, 1M34.

Assigne in Bank.ptc-Corparation.
A, residing in Maryland, and a stockholder in a manufacturing corporation in
Rhode Island, pledged with B, also residing in Maryland, as security for a
debt due from A to B, bonds of the company secured by mortgage of all
its property. The company became ernbarrassed and unable to pay its debts,
and its stockholders became individually liable to its creditors. A became
bankrupt, and B agreed with the assignee to receive the bonds and a sum
of money in payment of A's debt, and to indemnify the assignee against
loss or damage as holder of the stock. B then instituted proceedings to
enforce the individual liability of other stockholders: Held, That, the
agreement with the assignee was not an agreement to save A harmless
against liability as stockholder ; that neither the assignee in bankruptcy
nor the bankrupt's property in his hands was subject to the liability which
attached'to the stock, and that B assumed no liability which could be set
up by a stockholder as a defence against his individual liability to B.

The American File Company was a manufacturing corporation created by a special act of the legislature of 'Rhode Island,
passed in May, 1863, and carried on its business in the town of
Lincoln, in that State. The company purchased a patent under
which the manufacture of files had before been carried on in
the city of Baltimore, and the persons, among them one Allen
A. Chapman, who sold the patent, took nearly half the stock of
the company.
The business of the company was carried on at a loss. About
the beginning of the year 1870 it owed a large sum of money,
which was evidenced by promissory notes of the company, indorsed by the stockholders in Rhode Island, and Chapman and
other stockholders in Baltimore-all the stockholders being
under the statutes of Rhode Island individually liable for the
debts of the company by reason of its omission to file certain

AMERICAN FILE COMPANY v. GARRETT.

289

Statement of Facts.

statements respecting its business in the office of the clerk of
the town. In this state of its affairs the company resolved to
issue its bonds, to be secured by a mortgage on all its property,
real and personal. They were to be offered to the stockholders
in proportion to the stock held by them, and such as were not
taken were to be disposed of in "the order of applicants." The
bonds were issued accordingly. They were payable to bearer
five years after January 1st, 1870.
The bonds for Chapman and the other Baltimore stockholders, for which Chapman had subscribed, were sent to him
and charged against him on the books of the company, and
the bonds were paid for by him by the surrender of a like
amount of the promissory notes of the company. The notes so
surrendered were the property of the firm of Kirkland, Chase
& Co., merchants, of the city of Baltimore, of which Chapman was a member. Some of the Baltimore stockholders
refused to subscribe for the bonds, and their share of them was
taken by Chapman or his firm.
The firm of Kirkland, Chase & Co., on May 2d, 1872,
borrowed of the firm of Robert Garrett & Sons, bankers of the
same city, $50,000, and pledged as security therefor certain promissory notes which were afterwards, on May 28th,
withdrawn and a cargo of sugar, stored in a warehouse in
Baltimore, was pledged in lieu thereof and the warehouse
receipt deposited with Garrett & Sons. Besides the $50,000,
Kirkland, Chase & Co. at this time owed Garrett & Sons more
than $500,000, and it was the agreement between them that all
securities pledged were to be held, not only for the specific
loan for which they were pledged, but for the general balance
due from the pledgers to the pledgees.
On September 12th, 1872, Kirkland, Chase & Co. failed, and
the firm and each of its members were subsequently adjudicated bankrupts, and their property, 1copartnership and individual, was assigned for the benefit of their creditors.
On the day of the failure, Chapman informed Garrett &
Sons that on May 30th, Kiikland, Chase & Co. had withdrawn
and sold the cargo of sugar pledged as security for the loan of
$50,000, and that bonds of the American File Company to the
vo.

cx-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

amount of $81,500 had been substituted therefor, and handed
to his son previous to September 12th to be delivered to them.
On September 12th the bonds were delivered into the manual
possession of Garrett & Sons in lieu of the cargo of sugar so
withdrawn and sold.
The assignees in bankruptcy of Kirkland, Chase & Co. disputed the title of Garrett & Sons to these bonds and some
other securities on the ground that their transfer was a fraudulent preference. The assignees and Garrett & Sons settled
all their controversies growing out of the bankruptcy of Kirk'land, Chase & Co. by an agreement in writing dated May 4th,
'1874, whereby the assignees relinquished all claim upon the
"collaterals" of every nature, or the proceeds thereof, held by
Garrett & Sons on the debts due them by the bankrupts, and
agreed to pay Garrett & Sons $5,000, and the latter relinquished all claim to dividends declared and to be declared on
the estate of Kirkland, Chase & Co. by the assignees or their
successors. The settlement also contained this stipulation:
"And said Robert Garrett & Sons likewise further agree, that
whereas said assignees have been offered the sum of fifty cents in
.the dollar for certain bonds of the American Vile Company (now
,held by Messrs. Robert Garrett & Sons, which were received as
.collaterals from Messrs. Kirkland, Chase & Company), and an
indemnification against loss or damage of any kind as holders of
,certain stock of said American File Company, as assignees of A.
A. Chapman and Kirkland, Chase & Company, said Robert Gar.rett & Sons hereby agree to indemnify the said assignees against
loss or damage of any kind as holders of the stock aforesaid ; and
in consideration of said acts of said assignees, said Robert Garrett & Sons do also hereby agree to indemnify the said assignees
and said estate of Kirkland, Chase & Company and the estate of
A. A. Chapman against loss or damage of any kind for releasing
their claim to the said bonds of the American File Company, now
held by Messrs. Robert Garrett & Sons, and agree to hold said
assignees and said estate harmless for said transfer and release."
, Garrett & Sons, on June 23d, 1876, recovered a judgment
in the Supreme Court of the State of Rliode Island against

AMERICAN FILE COMPANY v. GARRETT.

291

Statement of Facts.

the File Company on the bonds transferred to them by Chapman or the firm of Kirkland, Chase & Co., for the sum of
$132,611.33, the principal and interest due on the same. At
that time, by the statute law of Rhode Island, the creditors
who recovered a judgment against a corporation whose stockholders were individually liable for its debts, could take out
execution thereon and seize the persons and property of
the stockholders in satisfaction thereof, in the same manner
as on executions issued against them for their individual
debts.
Before either of the cases brought up by these appeals
was commenced, the affairs of Kirkland, Chase & Co. had
been nearly settled and the bankrupts discharged. After the
recovery of the judgment by Garrett & Sons, William F. Sayles
and other Rhode Island stockholders, about November 9th,
1876, filed a bill in equity against them in the Supreme Court
of Rhode Island to enjoin them from levying execution upon
the persons or property of the complainants. The bill alleged
that when the bonds of the File Company were issued in 1870,
there was an agreement between the stockholders that the
bonds were to be taken by them in proportion to the stock
which they held respectively, and that they were to be a final
payment of the debts of the company, relieving the stockholders from liability, and requiring the holders to look for payment of their bonds to the property which was mortgaged to
secure them, or to the property of the company, and not to the
individual liability of the stockholders; that Garrett & Sons
had notice of this agreement when they acquired the bonds,
and had no better right to enforce the individual liability of
the stockholders than Chapman or Kirkland, Chase & Co.,
from whom they derived title; and that they, Garrett &
Sons, had agreed to indemnify the assignees in bankruptcy
of Chapman and Kirkland, Chase & Co., and thereby had
discharged the complainants from any liability, if any such

existed, by reason of said bonds, and that in equity and of right
their said guaranty inured to the benefit of the complainants,
and the court should enforce it in that suit, and thereby avoid
the circuity of actin which would ensue if the complainants

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

should call on the assignees for contribution, and they on Garrett & Sons for indemnity.
After this cause was put at issue by the answer of Gaftett &
Sons, and by the replication of complainants, it was removed
to the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Rhode Island.
In the year 18'r an act was passed by the legislature of
Rhode Island taking away the right of the judgment creditors
of a corporation, whose stockholders were individually liable,
to issue execution against them, and substituting a bill in equity
or an action of debt to enforce the liability of the stockholder.
In pursuance of this statute, Garrett & Sons, on April 6th,
1878, filed their bill in the United States Circuit Court for the
District of Rhode Island, against the American File Company
and all the stockholders thereof who were citizens of the
State of Rhode Island, to enforce their individual liability to
pay the judgment recovered against the American File Company.
The stockholders against whom this liability was sought to
be enforced filed their joint answer to the bill, in which they
set up by way of defence the same matters, in substance, as
they had alleged in their bill against Garrett & Sons.
These two cases, which involved substantially the same questions and controversies, were heard at the same time and upon
the same evidence. In the case of Garrett &l Sons v. The
American File Company and others, the Circuit Court decreed
that the defendants were jointly and severally liable for the
payment of the judgment recovered by Garrett & Sons against
The American File Company, and that the complainants have
and recover of said stockholders the sum of $165,440.65, that
being the amount due on the judgment.
In the case of Wlliam F. Sayles and others v. Garrett&
Sons, the Circuit Court dismissed the bill. Appeals were
taken from both decrees; by the complainants in the case of
SayZes and others v. Garrett& Sons, and in the case of Garrett
& Sons v. Tie American Fie Company, by William F. Sayles
and other stockholders against whom the decree was rendered.
Both cases were argued together in this court.

AMERICAN FILE COMPANY v. GARRETT.
Opinion of the Court.

Xr. A. D. Payne and Xr. Abraham Payne for appellants.
Atr. .E. T. -). Cro88 and -Ir. John K Cowem for appellees.
M. JuSTIcE WooDs delivered the opinion of the court.

We shall consider the questions raised by these appeals as
presented by the record in the case of TWi=am F. Saylee and
otler8 v. Robert Garrett , Sons.
The first contention of the appellants is that the bonds of
the American File Company issued in 1870 were taken by its
stockholders in proportion substantially to the stock held by
them respectively, on the agreement between themselves that
the bonds should extinguish their individual liability, and the
bondholders should look to the property mortgaged to secure
the bonds and the other property of the company for payment,
and that Garrett & Sons were bound by this agreement.
If it be conceded, what in our opinion the record fails to
show, that the bonds were issued on any such understanding,
it would remain for the appellants to prove notice thereof to
Garrett & Sons before the title of the latter to thq bonds could
be affected by it.
The bill in this case having charged that when Garrett &
Sons took the bonds they had actual notice of all the circumstances under which they were issued to the stockholders, and
of all and singular the rights and equities subsisting between
the stockholders of. the company in relation thereto, and having
called for the answer of defendants under oath, the defendants
answered under oath, and alleged that they took the bonds in
the course of business for value before maturity, and that at
the time they acquired title thereto they were ignorant of the
fact that Allan A. Chapman was a stockholder in the American
File Company, and had no knowledge or notice of the manner
or circumstances of the issue of said bonds. The testimony of
each one of the defendants was taken by deposition, in which
they reiterate the denial of knowledge or notice contained in
their answers. The answers and depositions of the defendants
on this point stand uncontradicted by any evidence, direct or
circumstantial, in the record. The truth of their denial must
therefore be taken as an established fact in the case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

If, therefore, Garrett & Sons, having acquired the bonds
before maturity, paid value for them, they can hold them unaffected by any equities between Allan A. Chapman and the
American File Company or its stockholders. The evidence in
the record shows beyond controversy that Garrett & Sons took
the bonds as collateral security for a valid debt for which they
held no other security, and which the bonds fell far short of
securing; that after applying these and other assets to the
debts for which they were pledged, there remained due to
them from Kirkland, Chase & Co. more than $200,000. They
were therefore purchasers for value, and are entitled to all the
rights of bona JMe holders for value, among which is the right
to enforce payment from the stockholders of the American
File Company. Swift v. Tyson, 16 Pet. 1; Oates v. l'atonal
Bank, 100 U. S. 239; Railroad Gomnpany v. Nvationo Bank,
102 U. S. 14.
But the appellants insist (and this is their second contention)
that, conceding Garrett & Sons to be bona jfde holders of the
bonds for value without notice of any equities or defences as
against the first holders, they have nevertheless lost their right to
enforce the individual liability of the stockholders by reason of
the agreement between them and the assignees of Chapman,
whereby they assumed the liability of stockholders and made
themselves liable through the assignees to contribute to the
other stockholders the money which they might collect from
them on the bonds of the company.
It is clear that Garrett & Sons did not by this contract agree
to become stockholders of the corporation or to indemnify
Chapman against his individual liability as a stockholder. The
agreement will bear no such interpretation. The contract was
made for the benefit of the assignees, by which they took
an indemnity for themselves and the bankrupt estate. If,
therefore, the assignees themselves are not liable as stockholders,
Garrett & Sons by this contract of indemnity assumed no liability, and they hold the bonds in question unfettered by any
equities or conditions.
It is well settled that under the circumstances of the case
neither the assignees nor the assets in their hands are subject

AMERICAN FILE COMIPANY v. GARRETT.

295

Opinion of the Court.
to the individual liability which attaches to stocks held by
the bankrupt. The evidence does not show that the assignees
acted in any way as stockholders, that they ever attended any
meetings of the corporation, or that their names appeared upon
its books, or that they treated the stock standing in Chapman's
name as an asset of his estate. They merely had in their possession the certificates of stock, and yielded to Garrett & Sons
any claim to the bonds of the American File Company belonging to Chapman or his firm, and took an indemnity against any
supposed liability which might attach to them as holders of
the stock belonging to the estate of Chapman.
In Gray v. Coffin, 9 Cush. 192, the Supreme Court of Mtassachusetts, having under consideration a law of that State almost
identical with the Rhode Island statutes, held that the individual
liability of "stockholders did not attach when their assignee
had attended and voted at meetings of the corporation and
done other acts of unequivocal ownership." The same result
would follow under the bankrupt law. It has long been a
recognized principle of the bankrupt laws that the assignees
were not bound to accept property of an onerous or unprofi
able character. Soutd Stafordekire Railway Company v.
Bun side, 5 Ex. 129; Furdoonjee8 Case, 3 Ch. Div. 268; .E
parte -Davis,3 Ch. Div. 463; Streeter v. Sumner, 31 NT. H. 542;
.Aworyv. 1awrence, 3 Cliff. 523; .?ugely & .'arrison v. Robinson, 19 Ala. 401 As the assignees of Chapman never accepted
the stock, and never consented to become stockholders in the
American File Company, it follows that neither they nor the
assets of Chapman in their hands are subject to the individual
liability of stockholders for the debt of the corporation. The
contract of indemnity did not, therefore, subject Garrett & Sons
to any such liability. It follows that they took the bonds unaffected by any agreement in respect thereto between Chapman
and his co-stockholders.

The result of these views is, that the decree in bota oase8 must
be aFrmed, and it i .80ordered.

