PEUGH v. DAVIS.
Opinion of the Court

PEUGH v. DAVIS.
APPEAL PROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMIA.
Submitted January 7th, 1884.-Decided Janhary 21at, 1884.

AppeaZ-Supersedeas.
If a court in session and acting judicially allows an appeal which is entered
of record without taking a bond within sixty days after rendering a decree,
a justice or judge of the appellate court may, in his discretion, grant a supersedeas after the expiration of that time under the provisions of ยง 1007 Rev.
Stat., but this is not to be construed as affecting appeals other than such
as are allowed by the court acting judicially and in term time.

.Mr. Z F. -Tor7i8

and .r. J. T. Critenden for appellant.

Yr. A. G. Riddle for appellee.
MR.CHIEF JusTic

WA=E delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a decree of the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia, rendered on the 30th of October, 1882.
At the foot of the decree as entered is the following:
"1And from this decree the complainant, Samuel A. Peugh,
prays an appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States*, which
is allowed."
No bond of any kind was executed under this allowance until
the 10th of May, 1883, when Mr. Justice Miller granted a supersedeas and took the necessary security for that purpose.
He at the same time signed a citation. On the same day
another citation was signed by the Chief Justice of the Supreme
Court of the District. Davis, the appellee, now moves to vacate
the supersedeas because no appeal was perfected within sixty
days after the rendition of the decree appealed from, and also
to dismiss the appeal.
In Ritc en v. Randolph, 93 U. S., at 92, it was held that"The service of a writ of error or the perfection of an appeal
within sixty days, Sundays exclusive, after the rendering of the
judgment or the passing of the decree complained of, is an

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

indispensable prerequisite to a supersedeas, and that it is not within
the power of a justice or judge of the appellate court to grant a
stay on the judgment or decree, if this has not been done."
In referring to this case at the same term, in Sage v. Central
Railroad Company, id, 416, it was spoken of as holding that,
unless the writ of error was sued out and served, or the appeal
taken within the sixty days, no supersedeas could be allowed. It
thus appears that the words "perfected" and "taken" were
used interchangeably, and were evidently intended to mean
The rule established by these
the same thing as "allowed."
cases, when accurately stated, is therefore no more than that
to give a justice or judge of the appellate court authority to
grant a supersedeas after the expiration of the sixty days, a
writ of error must have been issued and served, or an appeal
allowed within that time.
In .EZmonson, v. Bloomshire, 7 Wall. 306, it was decided
that a prayer for an appeal made in open court, and an order
allowing it, constituted a valid appeal. Under such circumstances the allowance becomes the judicial act of the court in
session, and the bond is not essential to the taking of the
appeal, though it may be to its prosecution. As was said
in the case last cited:
"It could have been given here, and cases have been brought
here where no bond was approved by the court below, and the
court has permitted the appellant to give bond in this court."
Anson Bange & Co. v. Blue Ridge Railroad,23 How. 1;
Brobst v. Brobst, 2 Wall. 96 ; Seymour ,. Free,5 Wall. 822, are
cases of that character. And in The Dos Hermanos,10 Wheat.
306, where an appeal was prayed within the five years' limitation, and was actually allowed by the court within that
period although the bond was not given until afterwards,
Chief Justice Marshall said:
"It is true the security required by law was not given until
after the lapse of the five years ; and under such circumstances
the court might have disallowed the appeal and refused the

LAKE SHORE &c., R. CO. v. CAR-BRAKE SHOE CO. 229
Syllabus.
security. But as the court accepted it, it must be considered as
a sufficient compliance with the order of the court, and that it had
relation back to the time of the allowance of the appeaL"

We decided in Railroadv. Blair, 100 U. S. 661, that if an

appeal was allowed by the court during the term at which the
decree was entered, and the bond was not executed until after
the term, a citation was necessary; but that related only to
procedure under the appeal, and is not in conflict with the
former decisions as to the effect of an allowance of an appeal
by the judicial act of the court in session.
In view of these rulings we hold that if a court in session
and acting judicially allows an appeal which is entered of
record without taking a bond within sixty days after rendering
a decree, a justice or judge of the appellate court may, in his
discretion, grant a supersedeas after the expiration of that time,
under the provisions of ยง 1007 of the Revised Statutes.
Nothing here said is to be construed as affecting appeals other
than such as are allowed by the court acting judicially and in
term time.
27e motion i8 denied.

LAKE SHORE & MICHIGAN SOUTHERN RAILWAY
COMPANY v. NATIONAL CAR-BRAKE SHOE
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Argued January 9th, 10th, 1884.-Decided January 28th, 1884.

Paent.
In this case it was held, that, on the record herein, claim 2 of letters patent
No. 40,156, granted to James Bing, October 6th, 1863, for an '"improved
shoe for car-brakes," namely, "The combination of shoe A, sole B, clevis
D and bolt G, the whole being constructed and arranged substantially as
specifled," does not embody any lateral rocking motion in the shoe, as an
element of the combination.

