SUSQI EIIAINA BOOM CO. v. W. BRANCH BOOM CO. 5t
Opinion of the Court.

SUSQUEHANNA BOOM COMPA.NY & Others v. WEST
BRANCH BOOM COMPANY.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Submitted December 10th, 1883.-Decided January 7th, 1884.

Constitutional Law-Corporatons-.Practice.
Where the federal question insisted on in this court, respecting a contract between a State and a corporation in the grant of franchises by the former to
the latter, was not raised at the trial in the State court, or where it does
not appear unmistakably that the State court either knew or ought to have
known prior to its judgment that the judgment, when rendered, would
necessarily involve that question, this court cannot take jurisdiction of
the case for the purpose of reviewing the judgment of the State court. It
is not sufficient that the question was raised after judgment, on a motion
for a rehearing. Brown v. Colorado, 106 U. S. 95, cited and approved.

Motion to dismiss a cause brought here from a State court,
by writ of error, on the ground that the federal question was
not raised in the court below.
2r.Seyrzour -D. Bagl for defendant in error, moving.
.2fr. Tfiliara A. TWallace for plaintiffs in error, opposing.
JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
The Susquehanna Boom Company was incorporated by the
General Assembly of Pennsylvania on the 26th of March, 1846,
and as early as 1849 erected, under its charter, a boom in the
West Branch of the Susquehanna River, at Williamsport, for
the purpose of securing logs and other lumber floating in the
river. Its charter did not purport to confer upon it any exclusive rights to the use of the river above the boom for bringing logs down.
On the 26th of March, 1849, the West Branch Boom Company was incorporated to construct and maintain a boom on
the south side of the West Branch at Lock Haven, about
twenty-five miles above Williamsport. Under its charter this
company was not allowed to extend its boom more than half
way across the river, but it could "erect such piers, side

My C=F

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

branches, or sheer booms" as might be necessary. With this
authority a sheer boom was constructed in the north half of
the stream. This suit was begun in a State court of Pennsylvania to enjoin the West Branch Company from maintaining
such a sheer boom, on the ground that under its charter no
such structure could be placed by it on the north side of the
branch. The Supreme Court of the State, on appeal, decided
that it could put in and maintain such a sheer boom, and adjudged accordingly. To reverse that judgment this writ of
error was brought. The West Branch Company now moves
to dismiss the writ because no federal question is involved.
It is clear to our minds that we have no jurisdiction. The
Constitution protects State corporations in such* contracts with
the State as their charters imply. The Susquehanna Company,
whose rights are involved, was given full authority to erect and
maintain its boom at Williamsport. That undoubtedly implied
the right to use the river as others used it for bringing logs to
the boom. The West Branch Company was also authorized to
construct its boom in the south half of the river at Lock Haven.
Whether it could under its charter put a sheer boom in the
north half seems to have been a question with the Susquehanna
Company, and this suit was brought to have that question settled.
That is clearly all there was in the case up to the time of the
final decision of the Supreme Court, whose judgment we are
now called on to review. There is nowhere, either in the
pleadings, the evidence, or the suggestions of counsel, prior to
the judgment, so far as we have been able to discover, even an
intimation that the Susquehanna Company claimed any contract right under its charter to exclude the West Branch Company from such use as that company was making of the north
half of the stream. The only controversy apparently was
about the right of the West Branch Company, under its charter,
to such usc at all
"Certainly," as was said in -Brownv. Colorado, 106 U. S. 95,
"if the judgments of the courts of the States are to be reviewed
here on such" [that is to say federal], "9questions, it should only
be when it appears unmistakably that the court either knew, or

HOLLAND v. CHAMBERS.
Statement of Facts.

ought to have known, that such a question was involved in the
decision to be made."
The fact that on a petition for rehearing it was suggested
that if the charter of the West Branch Company was so construed as to give it the right to maintain its sheer boom in the
north half of the stream, that charter would impair the obligation of the contract of the State with the Susquehanna Company, is unimportant here, because our jurisdiction extends
only to a review of the judgment as it stands in the record.
We act on the case as made to the court below when the judgment was rendered, and cannot incorporate into the record any
new matter which appears for the first time after the judgment,
on a petition for rehearing. Such a petition is no part of the
record on which the judgment rests.
The motion to dismss is granted.

HOLLAND v. CHAMBERS.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Submitted December 17th, 183.-Decided January 7th, 18SI.

Removal of Causes.
Under the act of March 3d, 1875, c. 137, 18 Stat. 470, a cause cannot be removed from a State court to a Circuit Court of the United States after a
trial has been had in a State court, and judgment rendered and set aside,
and new trial ordered, and the term passed at which this was done.

Motion to dismiss an appeal from the decision of a Circuit
Court remanding a cause to a State court.

Afr. Janes 0. Broadheadfor defendant in error and mover.
ilfr. S. X. Smit, and Zr. J R. Sypher attorneys of record
for plaintiff in error. No brief filed.

