OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

KELLOGG BRIDGE COMPANY v. HlAMITTON.
I

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
Submitted October 31st, 188.-Decided January 14th, 1834.
Contract-Implied Warranly.

A bridge company, having partially executed a contract for the construction of
a bridge, entered into a written agreement with a person whereby the latter
undertook, for a named sum and within a specified time, to complete its
erection. The subcontractor agreed to assime and pay for all work done
and material furnished up to that time by the company. Assuming this
work to have been sufficient for the purposes for which it was designed, the
subcontractor proceeded with his undertaking, but the insufficiency of the
work previously done by the company was disclosed during the progress of
the erection of the bridge. No statement or representation was made by
the company as to the quality of the work it had done. Its insuffiicency,
however, was not apparent upon inspection, and could not have been discovered by the subcontractor until actually tested during the erection of
the bridge : Held, That the law implied a warranty that the work sold or
transferred to the subcontractor was reasonably sufficient for the purposes
for which the company knew it was designed.

The Kellogg Bridge Company, the defendant below, undertook to construct, for the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern
Railroad Company, an iron bridge across Maumee River at
Toledo, Ohio. After doing a portion of the work it entered
into a written contract with the defendant in error, for the
completion of the bridge under its directions, containing
among others, these stipulations:
"1That the said party of the first part [Hamilton] hereby agrees to
furnish and prepare all the necessary false work and erect the iron
]bridge now being constructed by the said party of the second part
[the Kellogg Bridge Company] for the Lake Shore and Michigan

Southern Railroad Company at Toledo, Ohio, over the Maumee
River, receiving said bridge material as it arrives on the cars at
the site of said bridge and erecting the same in the best manner,
according to the design of said bridge and the directions of said
second party from time to time, commencing the erection of said
work when required to do so by said second party, and proceed-

KELLOGG BRIDGE.COMPANY v. HAMILTON.

109

Statement of Facts.
ing with the same with a force sufficient to complete the entire
work on or before the first day of M1arch next; the said first party
also agrees to assume and pay for all work done and materials furnished up to the time of executing this contract, including piling
and piles, timber, and other materials and labor done on the same,
but not including bolts and washers which have been furnished
by the party of the second part, but to return said bolts and
washers to the said second party, or pay for the same on completion of said bridge.
"And the said first party, in consideration of the payments hereinafter mentioned to be made by said second party, agrees to
perform all the stipulations of this agreement in a thorough and
workmanlike manner and to the satisfaction of the second party.
"And if at any time the said second party is not satisfied with
the manner of performing the work herein described, or the
rapidity with which it is being done, the second party shall have
full power and liberty to put on such force as may be necessary
to complete the work within the time named, and provide such
tools or materials for false work as may be necessary, and charge
the cost of the same to the said first party, who agrees to pay
therefor."
In consideration of the faithful performance of these stipulations, Hamilton was to receive from the Bridge Company $900
on the completion of the first span, a like sum on the completion of the second span, $800 on the completion of the third
span, and $1,403 on the completion of the draw and the entire
work-such payments to be made only on the acceptance of
each part of the work by the chief engineer of the Lake Shore
and Michigan Southern Railroad Company.
The bridge which Hamilton undertook to erect consisted of
three independent fixed spans, each to be one hundred and
seventy-five feet six inches in length, suspended between and
resting at each end of the span upon stone piers, which had
been prepared to receive the same, and one draw span of one
hundred and eighty-five feet in length, resting upon a pier in
the centre, also then prepared. In erecting the several spans
it was necessary to build and use what the contract described
as 'false work,' which consisted of piles driven in the river be-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

tween the piers upon which the spans were to rest, and upon
which was placed a platform.
As indicated in the written contract, the Bridge Company
had previously constructed a part of this false work between
the first and second spans, the cost of which Hamilton paid, as
by the contract he agreed to do. Assuming this work to be
sufficient for the purposes for which it was designed, Hamilton
proceeded to complete the erection of the bridge according to
the plans furnished him.
There was evidence before the jury tending to establish the
following facts:
A part of the false work or scaffolding put up by the company sank under the weight of the first span, and was replaced
by Hamilton. When the second fixed span was about twothirds completed, the ice, which before that had formed in the
river, broke up in consequence of a flood, carrying away the
false work under that span, and causing the whole of the iron
material then in place on the span, or on the span ready to be
put in place, to fall in the river, which at that place was about
sixteen feet deep. If the piles driven by the Bridge Company
-had been driven more firmly into the bed of the river, they
would have withstood the force of the ice and flood. In consequence of the insufficiency of the false work done by that
company, Hamilton was delayed in the completion of the
bridge and subjected to increased expense.
The bridge being completed, Hamilton brought suit in the
,tate court to recover the contract price of the bridge,. extra
work claimed to have been done on it, and damages sustained
by reason of the insufficiency of the false work constructed by
the Bridge Company: in all $3,693.18. The cause was removed
to the Circuit Court of the United States, where the Bridge
Company answered, setting up a counterclaim for $6,619.t0.
Trial was had with verdict and judgment for plaintiff for
$3,039.89. The defendant below brought a writ of error to
reverse that judgment.
-Yr. Richard Waite, and M. E.
error.

. Waite for plaintiff in

KELLOGG BRIDGE COMPANY v. HAMILTON.

111

Opinion of the Cour

XMrs. John C. Lee for defendant in error.

M JusTiE HARmL.

delivered the opinion of the court.
After reciting the foregoing facts, he continued: It is insisted
by the defendant in error that the value of the matter really in
dispute here is less than the amount requisite to give this court
jurisdiction. Upon this ground a motion to dismiss was here.
tofore made, and was denied. To that ruling we adhere.
Upon the pleadings it is apparent that the defendant asserts its
right to judgment for $6,619.10 after crediting plaintiff, not
only with the sum specified in the contract, but with every
other sum to which he is entitled in the accounting. This is
conclusive as to our jurisdiction upon this writ of error.
It was not claimed on the trial, nor is it contended here, that
the company made any statement or representation as to the
nature or character of the false work it did, and which, by the
contract, Hamilton agreed to assume and pay for. But there
was evidence tending to show that the insufficiency of that false
work was unknown to Hamilton at the time the contract was
made; was not apparent upon any examination he then made, or
could have made; and was not discovered, indeed, could not
have been discovered, until, during the progress of the erection
of the bridge, the false work was practically tested.
The court, among other things, instructed the jury, at the request of plaintiff, and over the objections of the defendant, that
by the contract-looking at all the circumstances attending
its execution and giving to its terms a fair and reasonable interpretation-there was an implied warranty upon the part of the
company that the false work it did, and which plaintiff agreed
to assume and pay for, was suitable and proper for the purposes
for which the Bridge Company knew it was to be used. This
instruction was accompanied by the observation that if the evidence showed "that the particular work which was said to be
defective was such that the plaintiff could not by examination
ascertain its defects-for if they were apparent by mere examination of the false work it was the duty of the plaintiff to
make that good-he had the right to rely upon the implied
warranty; that is, if the defects were such that they could not

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

be, by ordinary observation and care on behalf of the plaintiff,
ascertained and found out." That instruction presents the only
question we deem it necessary to determine. Although there are
several assignments of error, they depend, as counsel for plaintiff in error properly concede, upon the inquiry whether the
court erred in ruling that by the terms of the contract there
was an implied warranty that the false work constructed by
the Bridge Company was suitable and proper for the purposes
for which it was to be used by Hamilton.
The argument in behalf of plaintiff in error proceeds upon
the ground that there was a simple transfer by the company
of its ownership of the work and materials as they existed t
the time of the contract; that Hamilton took the false work
for what it was, and just as it stood; consequently, that the
rule of caveat emjtor applies with full force. The position of
counsel for Hamilton is that, as in cases of sales of articles by
those manufacturing or making them, there was an implied
warranty by the Bridge Company that the work sold or transferred to Hamilton was* reasonably fit for the purposes for
which it was purchased.
The cases in which the general rule of caveat emptor applies
are indicated in Barardv. Kellogg, 10 Wall. 383, 388, where,
speaking by Mr. Justice Davis, the court observed, that,
"No principle of the common law has been better established,
or more often affirmed, both in this country and in England, than
that in sales of personal property, in the absence of express warranty, wheri the buyer has an opportunity to inspect the commodity, and the seller is guilty of no fraud, and is neither the manufacturer nor grower of the article he sells, the maxim of caveat
emptor applies."
An examination of the ground upon which some of the cases
have placed the general rule, as well as the reasons against its
application, under particular circuistances, to sales of articles
by those who have manufactured them, will aid us in determining how far the doctrines of those cases should control the
one before us.

KELLOGG BRIDGE COMPANY v. HAMILTON.

113

Opinion of the Court
The counsel for the Bridge Company relies upon Parkinson
v. Lee, 2 East, 314, as illustrating the rule applicable in ordinary sales of merchandise. That case arose out of a sale of five
pockets of hops, samples of which were taken from each
pocket and exhibited at the time of sale. The question was
whether, under the circumstances of that case-there being no
express warranty and no fraud by the seller-there was an implied warranty that the commodity was merchantable. It
was resolved in the negative, upon the ground that it was the
fault of the buyer that he did not insist on a warranty; the
commodity was one which might or might not have a latent
defect, a fact well known in the trade; and since a sample was
fairly taken from the bulk, and the buyer must have known,
as a dealer in the commodity, that it was subject to the latent
defect afterwards appearing, he was held to have exercised his
own judgment and bought at his own risk. But of that case,
it was observed by Chief Justice Tindal, in Sepherd v. Pybs,
3 Man. & Gr. 868, that two of the judges participating in its
decision laid "great stress upon the fact that the seller was
not the grower of the hops, and that the purchaser, by the
inspection of the hops had as full an opportunity of
judgment of the quality of the hops as the seller himself."
There was, consequently, nothing in the circumstances to
justify the buyer in relying on the judgment of the seller as to
the quality of the commodity. It is, also, worthy of remark,
that in Randall v. Nhewson, 2 Q. B. 102, it was said of Parkinson v. Lee, that "either it does not determine the extent of the
seller's liability on the contract, or it has been overruled."
In Brown v. Edgington, 2 Man. & Gr. 279, the plaintiff
sought to recover damages resulting from the insufficiency of
a rope furnished by the defendant upon plaintiff's order, to be
used, as defendant knew, in raising pipes of wine from a cellar.
The defendant did not himself manufacture the rope, but procured another to do so, in order that he, defendant, might furnish it in compliance with plaintiff's request. Tindal, C. J.,
said:
"It appears to me to be a distinction well founded, both in
VoL. cX-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

reason and on authority, that if a party purchases an article upon
his own judgment, he cannot afterwards hold the vendor responsible, on the ground that the article turns out to be unfit for the
purpose for which it was required ; but if he relies upon the judgment of the seller, and informs him of the use to which the article
is to be applied, it seems to me the transaction carries with it an
implied warranty that the thing furnished shall be fit and proper
for the purpose for which it was designed."
In 7Spherd v. Pybuw, already referred to, the question was
whether, upon the sale of a barge by the builder, there was a
warranty of fitness for the purpose for which it was known by
the builder to have been purchased. It was held that the law
implied such a warranty. The ground of the decision was that

the purchaser had no opportunity of inspecting the barge
during its construction, having seen it only after completion;
that the defects afterwards discovered were not apparent upon
inspection, and could only be detected upon trial.
In ones v. Just, L. R. 3 Q. B. 197, upon an extended re-

view of the authorities, the court classified the adjudged cases
bearing upon the subject of implied warranty, and said that
"It must be taken as established that on the sale of goods by
a manufacturer or dealer, to be applied to a particular purpose, it
is a term in the contract that they shall reasonably answer that
purpose, and that on the sale of an article by a manufacturer to a
vendee who has not had the opportunity of inspecting it during
the manufacture, that it shall be reasonably fit for use or shall be
merchantable, as the case may be."

Other cases might be cited, but these are sufficient to show
the general current of decision in the English courts.
The decisions in the American courts do not indicate any
substantial difference of doctrine. A leading case upon the
subject, where the authorities were carefully examined and
distinguished, is Hoe v. Sanborn, 21 N. Y. 552. The decision
there was that
"Where one sells an article of his own manufacture which has
a defect produced by the manufacturing process itself, the seller

KELLOGG BRIDGE COMPANY v. HAMILTON.

115

Opinion of the Court.

must be presumed to have had knowledge of such defect, and
must be holden, therefore, upon the most obvious principles of
equity and justice-unless he informs the purchaser of the defect
-to indemnify him against it."
In Cunninghtam v. Ball,4 Allen, 268,the cases of loe v. Sanborn and Stepherd v. .Pybusand Brown v. Edgington, ubi supra,
are cited with approval. In Rodgers v. Niles, 11 Ohio St. 48,
53, the Supreme Court of Ohio recognizes among the exceptions
to the general rule cases
"Where it is evident that the purchaser did not rely on his own
judgment of the quality of the article purchased, the circumstances showing that no examination was possible on his part, or
the contract being such as to show that the obligation and responsibility of ascertaining and judging of the quality was thrown
upon the vendor, as where he agrees to furnish an article for a
particular purpose or use."
So in Leaood v. Fankirk, 27 Wis. 152:
"The general rule of law with respect to implied warranties is
well settled that when the manufacturer of an article sells it for
a particular purpose, the purchaser, making known to him at the
time the purpose for which he buys it, the seller thereby warrants
it fit and proper for such purpose and free from latent defects."
So also in in Brenton v. Davis, 8 Blackf. 317, 318:
"We consider the law to be settled that if a manufacturer of
an article sells it at a fair market price, knowing the purchaser
designs to apply it to a particular purpose, he impliedly warrants
it to be fit for that purpose; and that if, owing to some defect in
the article not visible to the purchaser, it is unfit for the purpose
for which it is sold and bought, the seller is liable on his implied
warranty."
2 Story on Contracts, ยง 1077, 5th edit., by Bigelow; 1 Chitty
on Contracts, 11th American edit., 631-2, note m; Addison on
Contracts, ch. 7, ยง 1, p. 212.
The authorities to which we have referred, although differing

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

in the form of stating the qualifications and limitations of the
general rule, yet indicate with reasonable certainty the substantial grounds upon which the doctrine of implied warranty
has been made to rest. According to the principles of decided
cases, and upon clear grounds of justice, the fundamental inquiry must always be whether, under the circumstances of the
particular case, the buyer had the right to rely and necessarily
relied on the judgment of the seller and not upon his own. In
ordinary sales the buyer has an opportunity of inspecting the
article sold; and the seller not being the maker, and therefore
having no special or technical knowledge of the mode in which
it was made, the parties stand upon grounds of substantial
equality. If there be, in fact, in the particular case, any
inequality, it is such that the law cannot or ought not to attempt to provide against; consequently, the buyer in such
cases-the seller giving no express warranty and making no
representations tending to mislead-is holden to have purchased
entirely on his own judgment. But when the seller is the
maker or manufacturer of the thing sold, the fair presumption
is that he understood the process of its manufacture, and was
cognizant of any latent defect caused by such process and
against which reasonable diligence might have guarded. This
presumption is justified, in part, by the fact that the manufacturer or maker by his occupation holds himself out as competent
to make articles reasonably adapted to the purposes for which
such or similar articles are designed. When, therefore, the
buyer has no opportunity to inspect the article, or when, from
the situation, inspection is impracticable or useless, it is unreasonable to suppose that he bought on his own judgment, or
that he did not rely on the judgment of the seller as to latent
defects of which the latter, if he used due care, must have
been informed during the process of manufacture. If the
buyer relied, and under the circumstances had reason to rely,
on the judgment of the seller, who was the manufacturer or
maker of the article, the law implies a warranty that it is
reasonably fit for the use for which it was designed, the
seller at the time being informed of the purpose to devote
it to that use.

KELLOGG BRIDGE COMPANY v. HAMILTON.

117

Opinion of the Court.

Whether these principles control, or to what extent they are
applicable, in the present case, we proceed to inquire.
Although the plaintiff in error is not a manufacturer in the
common acceptation of that word, it made or constructed the
false work which it sold to Hamilton. The transaction, if not
technically a sale, created between the parties the relation of
vendor and vendee. The business of the company was the
construction of bridges. By its occupation, apart from its contract with the railroad company, it held itself out as reasonably competent to do work of that character. Having partially
executed its contract with the railroad company, it made an
arrangement with Hamilton, whereby the latter undertook,
among other things, to prepare all necessary false work, and,
by a day named, and in the best manner, to erect the bridge
then being constructed by the Bridge Company-Hamilton to
assume and pay for such work and materials as that company
had up to that time done and furnished. Manifestly, it was
contemplated by the parties that Hamilton should commence
where the company left off. It certainly was not expected
that he should incur the expense of removing the false work
put up by the company and commence anew. On the contrary, he agreed to assume and pay for, and therefore it was
expected by the company that he should use, such false work
as it had previously prepared. It is unreasonable to suppose
that he would buy that which he did not intend to use, or that
the company would require him to assume and pay for that
which it did not expect him to use, or which was unfit for use.
It is suggested that, as Hamilton undertook to erect the bridge
in a thorough and workmanlike manner, he was not bound to
use the false work put up by the company, and that if he used
it in execution of his contract, he did so at his own risk. This
is only one mode of saying that, in the absence of an express
warranty or fraud upon the part of the company, the law will
not, under any circumstances, imply a warranty as to the quality or sufficiency of this false work. But the answer to this
argument is that no question was raised as to its sufficiency;
that, while Hamilton must be charged with knowledge of all
defects apparent or discernible upon inspection, he could not

OCTOBER TER]Mf, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

justly be charged with knowledge of latent defects which no
inspection or examination, at or before the sale, could possibly
have disclosed. The jury have, in effect, found the false work
to have been insufficient, in that the piles were not driven deep
enough; that had they been properly driven, the work would
have answered the purposes for which Hamilton purchased it;
and that he could not have ascertained such defects in advance
of an actual test made during the erection of the bridge. It
must be assumed that the company knew, at the time of sale,
that Hamilton could n&t, by inspection, have discovered the
latent defects which were subsequently disclosed. And if it be
also assumed, as it fairly may be, that Hamilton, being himself
a bridge builder, knew that there might be latent defects in
this false work, caused by the mode of its construction, and
beyond his power by mere inspection to ascertain, it must not
be overlooked that he also knew that the company,- by its
agents or servants, were or should have been informed as to
the mode in which the work had been done. That-he did not
exact an express warranty against latent defects not discoverable by inspection, constitutes, under the circumstances, no
reason why a warranty may not be implied against such de'fects as were caused by the mode in-which this false work was'
constructed. In the cases of sales by manufacturers of their
own articles for particular purposes, communicated to them at
the time, the argument was uniformly pressed that, as the
buyer could have required an express warranty, none should
be implied. But, plainly, such an argument impeaches the
whole doctrine of implied warranty, for there can be no case
of a sale of personal property in which the buyer may not, if
he chooses, insist on an express warranty against latent defects.
All the facts are present which, upon any view of the adjudged cases, must be held essential in an implied warranty.
The transaction was, in effect, a sale of this false work, con,
structed by a company whose business it was to do such work,
to be used in the same way the maker intended to use it, and
the latent defects in which, as the maker knew, the buyer
could not, by any inspection or examination at the time, discover; the buyer did not, because in the nature of things he-

ALLEN v. WITHROW.
Syllabus.

could not, rely on his own judgment; and, in view of the
circumstances of the case, and the relations of the parties, he
must be deemed to have relied on the judgment of the company,
which alone of the parties to the contract had or could have
knowledge of the manner in which the work had been done.
The law, therefore, implies a warranty that this false work
was reasonably suitable for such use as was contemplated by
both parties. It was constructed for a particular purpose, and
was sold to accomplish that purpose; and it is instrinsically
just that the company, which held itself out' as possessing the
requisite skill to do work of that kind, and therefore as having
special knowledge of its own workmanship, should be held to
indemnify its vendee against latent defects, arising from. the
mode of construction, and which the latter, as the company
well knew, could not, by any inspection, discover for himself.
For the reasons stated, we are of opinion that the court did
not err in the law of the case, and the judgment must be
Affirmed.

ALLEN & Another v. WITHROW & Another.
ON

APPEAL FROM THE cICurr COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF IOWA.
Argued December 11th and 12th, 1883.-Decldtd January 14th, 1884.

Dee--Equilty-Frauds,Statute of-Iowa-Partnerhip-- atutes-Trut.
1. The facts in this case disclose no trust attached to the estate and property
in the defendants' hands which a court of equity should enforce ; at the
best they show a promise-without consideration good or valuable-of a
simple donation, to be subsequently made, with no relationship of blood
or marriage between the parties, and therefore until executed, valueless.
2. A deed of real estate in blank in which the name of the grantee is not inserted, by the party authorized to fill it, before the deed is delivered,
passes no interest.
8. Under the Statute of Frauds of Iowa in force when the transactions in controversy took place, a trust could not be created in relation to real estate,
except by an instrument executed in the same manner as a deed of conveyance ; but a trust of personalty could be created by parol, provided

