OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

facturing Company, 2 Black, 545; Grand Mhute v. Iinegar,
15 Wall. 373; Lewis v. Cooks, 23 Wall. 466.
And this objection to the jurisdiction may be enforced by the

court sua sponte, though not raised by the pleadings or suggested by counsel. Parkerv. Vinnepiseogee Lake Cotton and
Woolen .Manufacturing Company, and Lewis v. Cocks, bii

supra.
These and many similar authorities, which it is unnecessary
to cite, are applicable to the case in hand. They showthatthe
court below was without jurisdiction to entertain the suit and
render the decree appealed from.
Its decree is therefore reversed, and the cause remanded,

with directions to dismiss the bilZ witiwut prejudice.

HOPT v. PEOPLE OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE

RMORY OF UTAH.

Submitted January 4th, 1884.-Decided March d, 18.

Criminal Law-Evidence-Fractice-atutes.
1. The trial, in Utah, by triers, appointed by the court, of challenges of proposed jurors, in felony cases, must be had in the presence as well of the
court as of the accused; and such presence of the accused cannot be dis.
peused with.
2. The rule that hearsay evidence is incompetent to establish any specific fact
which in its nature is susceptible of being proved by witnesses who speak
from their own knowledge, reaffirmed.
8. Where, under the statute, it is for the jury to say whether the facts make a
case of murder in the first degree or murder in the second degree, it is
error for the court to say, in its charge, that the offence, by whomsoever
committed, was that of murder in the first degree.
4. A confession freely and voluntarily made is evidence of the most satisfactory character. But the presumption upon which weight is given to
such evidence, namely that an innocent man will not imperil his safety
or prejudice his interests by an untrue statement, ceases when the confession appears to have been made, either in consequence of inducements
of a temporal nature held out by one in authority, touching the charge
preferred, or because of a threat or promise made by, or in the presence
of, such person, in reference to such charge.

HOPT v. UTAIL
Opinion of the Court.
A confession made to an officer will not be excluded from the jury
merely because it appears that the accused was previously in the custody
of another officer; and the court will not, as a condition precedent to the
admission of such evidence, require the prosecution to call the latter,
unless the circumstances render it probable that the accused held a conversation with the first officer upon the subject of a confession, or justify
the belief of collusion between the officers.
5. A statute which simply enlarges the class of persons who may be competent to testify, is not ex post fado in its application to offences

previously committed; for it does not attach criminality to any act
previously done, and which was innocent when done, nor aggravate past
crimes, nor increase the punishment therefor; nor does it alter the degree, or lessen the amount or measure, of the proof made necessary to
conviction for past offences. Such alterations relate to modes of procedure only which the State may regulate at pleasure, and in which no
one can be said to have a vested right.

-The plaintiff in error and one Emerson were jointly indicted
in a court of Utah for the murder, in the first degree, of John
F. Turner. Each defendant demanded a separate trial, and
pleaded not guilty. Hopt being found guilty was sentenced to
suffer death. The judgment was affirmed by the Supreme
Court of the Territory. But, upon writ of error to this court,
that judgment was reversed, and the case was remanded with
instructions to order a new trial Hoqgt v. Pe,9te,104 U. S. 631.
Upon the next trial, the defendant being found guilty was
again sentenced to suffer death. That judgment was affirmed
by the Supreme Court of the Territory. This writ of error
was sued out to review the judgment of the Supreme Court.
Hr. Thm" XarshaZZ and
error.
.Xr'. Ae Iant At
error.

ri.Lm T SMarp for plaintiff in

ey-GeneraZ

'aury, for defendant in

MR. JuSTcE RARLAw delivered the opinion of the court.
We are now required to determine whether the court of
original jurisdiction, in its conduct of the last trial, committed
any error to the prejudice of the substantial rights of the defendant.
1. The validity of the judgment is questioned upon the

OCTOBER TER]U

1883.

Opinion of the Court.

ground that a part of the proceedings in the trial court were
conducted in the absence of the defendant.
The Criminal Code of Procedure of Utah, § 218, provides
that,
"If the indictment is for a felony, the defendant must be personally present at the trial; but if for a misdemeanor, the trial
may be had in the absence of the defendant; if, however, his
presence is necessary for the purpose of identification, the court
may, upon application of the prosecuting attorney, by an order or
warrant, require the personal attendance of the defendant at the
trial."
The same code provides that a juror may be challenged by
either party for actual bias, that is, "for the existence of a
state of mind which leads to a just inference in reference to the
case that he will not act with entire impartiality," %8239, 241;
such a challenge, if the facts be denied, must be tried by three
impartial triers, not on the jury panel, and appointed by the
court, § 246; the juror so challenged "may be examined as a
witness to prove or disprove the challenge, and must answer
every question pertinent to the inquiry," § 249 ; "other witnesses may also be examined on either side, and the rules of
evidence applicable to the trial of other issues govern the admission or exclusion of evidence on the trial of the challenge,"
§ 250; "on the trial of the challenge for actual bias, when
the evidence is concluded, the court must instruct the triers
that is their duty to find the challenge true, if in their opinion
the evidence warrants the conclusion that the. juror has such a
bias against the party challenging him as to render himnot impartial, and that if from the evidence they believe him free
from such bias they must find the challenge not true; that a
hypothetical opinion on hearsay or information supposed to be
true is of itself no evidence of bias sufficient to disqualify a
juror. The court can give no other instruction," § 252 ; "the
triers must thereupon find the challenge either true or not
true, and their decision is final. If they find it true the juror
must be excluded." § 253.
It appears that six jurors were separately challenged by the

HOPT v. UTAHE
Opinion of the Court.

defendant for actual bias. The grounds of challenge in each
case were denied by the district attorney. For each juror
triers were appointed, who, being duly sworn, were, "before
proceeding to try the challenge," instructed as required by
section 252 of the Criminal Code; after which, in each case, the
triers took the juror from the court-room into a different room
and tried the grouids of challenge out of the presence as well
of the court as of the defendant and his counsel. Their findings were returned into court, and the challenge, being found
not true, the jurors so challenged resumed their seats among
those summoned to try the case. Of the six challenged for
actual bias, four were subsequently challenged by the defendant peremptorily. The other two were sworn as trial jurors,
one of them, however, after the defendant had exhausted all
his peremptory challenges.
No objection was made to the triers leaving the court-room;
nor was any exception taken thereto during the trial. The
jurors proposed were examined by the triers, without any teti,mony being offered or produced, either by the prosecution or
the defence.
It is insisted, in behalf of the defendant, that the action of
the court in permitting the trial in his absence of these challenges of jurors, was so irregular as to vitiate all the subsequent
proceedings. This point is well taken.
The Criminal Code of Utah does not authorize the trial by
triers of grounds of challenge to be had apart from the court,
and in the absence of the defendant. The specific provision
made for the txamination of witnesses "on either side," subject
to the rules of evidence applicable to the trial of other issues,
shows that the prosecuting attorney and the defendant were
entitled of right to be present during the examination by the
triers. It certainly was not contemplated that witnesses should
be sent or brought before the triers without the party producing them having the privilege, under the supervision of the
court, of propounding such questions as would elicit the necessary facts, or without an opportunity to the opposite side for
cross-examination. These views find some support in the further provision making it the duty of the court "when the eviVOL. cx-87

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

dence is concluded," and before the triers make a finding, to
instruct them as to their duties. In the case before us the instructions to the triers were given before the latter proceeded
with the trial of the challenges.
But all doubt upon the subject is removed by the express
requirement, not that the defendant may, but, where the indictment is for a felony, must be "personally present at the
trial." The argument in behalf of the government is that the
trial of the indictment began after and not before the jury was
sworn; consequently, that the defendant's personal presence
was not required at an earlier stage of thq proceedings. Some
warrant, it is supposed by counsel, is found for this position,
in decisions construing particular statutes in which the word
"trial" is used. Without stopping to distinguish those cases
from the one before us, or to examine the grounds upon which
they are placed, it is sufficient to say that the purpose of the
foregoing provisions of the Utah Criminal Code is, in prosecutions for felonies, to prevent any steps being taken, in the
absence of the accused and after the case is called for trial,
which involves his substantial rights. The requirement is, not
that he must be personally present at the trial by the jury, but
"at the trial." The Code, we have seen, prescribes grounds
for challenge by either party of jurors proposed. And provision is expressly made for the "trial" of such challenges,
some by the court, others by triers. The prisoner is entitled
to an impartial jury composed of persons not disqualified by
statute, and his life or liberty may depend upon the aid which,
by his personal presence, he may give to counsel and to the
court and triers, in the selection of jurors. The necessities of
the defence may not be met by the presence of his counsel
only. For every purpose, therefore, involved in the requirement that the defendant shall be personally present at the trial,
where the indictment is for a felony, the trial commences at least
from the time when the work of empanelling the jury begins.
But it is said that the right of the accused to be present
before the triers was waived by his failure to object to their
retirement from the court-room, or to their trial of the several
challenges in his absence.

HOPT v. UTAH.
.Opinion of the Court.

We are of opinion that it was not within the power of the
accused or his counsel to dispense with the statutory requirement as to his personal presence at the trial. The argument to
the contrary necessarily proceeds upon the ground that he alone
is concerned as to the mode by which he may be deprived of
his life or liberty, and that the chief object of the prosecution
is to punish him for the crime charged. But this is a mistaken.
view as well of the relations which the accused holds to the
public as of the end of human punishment. The natural life,
says Blackstone, "cannot legally be disposed of or destroyed
by any individual, neither by the person himself, nor by any
other of his fellow creatures, merely upon their own authority."
1 Bi. Con. 133. The public has an interest in his life and liberty. Neither can be lawfully taken except in the mode
prescribed by law. That which the law makes essential in
proceedings involving the deprivation of life or liberty cannot
be dispensed with or affected by the consent of the accused,
much less by his mere failure, when on trial and in custody, to
object to unauthorized methods. The great end of punishment
is not the expiation or atonement of the offence committed, but
the prevention of future offences of the same kind. 4 El. Corn.
11. Such being the relation which the citizen holds to the
public, and the object of punishment for public wrongs, the
legislature has deemed it essential to the protection of one
whose life or liberty is involved in a prosecution for felony, that
he shall be personally present at the trial, that is, at every
stage of the trial when his substantial. rights may be affected
by th6 proceedings against him. If he be deprived of his life
or liberty without being so present, such deprivation would be
without that due process of law required by the Constitution.
For these reasons we are of opinion that it was error, which
vitiated the verdict and judgment, to permit the trial of the
challenges to take place in the absence of the accused.
2. Another assignment of error relates to the action of the
court in permitting the surgeon who had made a post mortem
examination of the body of a corpse which was claimed by the
prosecution to be that of John F. Turner, to state that one
Fowler identified the body to him.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

The surgeon testified that the body examined by him was on
the platform at the railroad depot in Salt Lake City, in a wooden
case and coffin. The father of the deceased testified that he
did not communicate personally with the surgeon, nor see that
his son's body was delivered to him; that he left it at the railroad depot in Salt Lake City, in a wooden coffin, inclosed in a
box; and the fact that the body of the deceased was originally
placed in such a coffin was proved by a witness who put it in
the coffin. And yet there was testimony showing that there
was a body in the same depot, at or about the time referred to
by the surgeon, which, having been placed in a metallic case
covered by a wooden box, had been shipped from Echo, by
rail, to Salt Lake City; also that it showed injuries "generally
similar" to those described by the surgeon. Were there two
bodies of deceased persons, at the same depot, about the same
time, one "in a wood coffin enclosed in a box," and the other
"1in a metallic case covered by a wooden box?" There would
be some ground to so contend did not the bill of exceptions, in
its reference to the body shipped from Echo in a metallic case,
imply that there was testimony showing it to be the one that
1"had been identified as the body of the deceased, John F.
Turner." The confusion upon the subject arises from the failure
to state that the body which the father of the deceased left at
the railroad depot was the same as that shipped from Echo to
Salt Lake City. It was, perhaps, to this part of the case the
court referred when, in the charge to the jury, it said that the
prosecution "has intr.duced a vast amount of circumstantial
evidence." Be this as it may, it was a material question before
the jury whether the body examined by the surgeon was the same
one that the father of the deceased had left at the depot, and,
therefore, the body of the person for whose murde*r the defendant and Emerson were indicted. If it was not, then all that he
said was immaterial. If it was, the evidence otherwise connecting defendant with the death of John F. Turner, the state.
ments of that witness as to the condition of the corpse, the
nature of the injuries-whether necessarily fatal or not--observable upon the body examined by him, and how the'blows,
apparent upon inspection of it, were probably inflicted, became

HOPT v. UTAIL
Opinion of the Court

of great consequence in their bearing upon the guilt or innocence of the defendant of the crime of murder.
No proper foundation was laid for the question propounded
to the surgeon as to who pointed out and identified to him the
body he examined as that of John F. Turner. He had previously
stated that he did not personally know the deceased and did
not recognize the body to be his; he did not know that it was
the body which the father of deceased desired him to examine; consequently his answer could only place before the
the jury the statement of some one, not under oath, and who,
being absent, could not be subjected to the ordeal of a crossexamination. The question plainly called for hearsay evidence,
which, in its legal sense, "denotes that kind of evidence which
does not derive its value solely from the credit to be given to
the witness himself, but rests, also, in part, on the veracity and
competency of some other person.", I Greenleaf Ev. § 99; 1
Phil. Ev. 169. The general rule, subject to certain well established exceptions as old as the rule itself-applicable in civil
cases, and, therefore, to be rigidly enforced where life or liberty
is at stake-was stated in .3Bma Queen v. Iepburn, 7 Oranch,
29, 295, to be, "that hearsay evidence is incompetent to estab:
lish any specific fact, which fact is in its nature susceptible og
being proved by witnesses who speak from their own knowledge." "That this species of testimony," the court further
said, speaking by Chief Justice Marshall, "supposed some better
testimony which might be adduced in the particular case, is not
the sole ground of its exclusion. Its intrinsic weakness, its incompetency to satisfy the mind of the existence of the fact,
and the frauds which might be practised under its cover, combine"to support the rule that hearsay evidence is inadmissible.?
The specific, fact to be established by proof of what some one
else said to the surgeon as to the identity of the body submitted to his examination was, that it was the body of John F.
Turner. What Fowler-who was not even shown to have been
placed in charge of the body, nor commissioned to deliver it to
the surgen, nor to be acquainted with the deceased-said, in the
absence of the prisoner, as to the identity of the body, was;
plainly, hearsay evidence, within the rule recognized in all the

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

adjudged cases. As such it should, upon the showing made,
have been excluded.
3. The next assignment of error relates to that portion of
the charge which represents the court as saying: "That an
atrocious and dastardly murder has been committed by some
person is apparent, but in your deliberations you should be
careful not to be influenced by any feeling."
By the statutes of Utah, "murder perpetrated by poison,
lying in wait, or any other kind of wilful, deliberate, malicious
or premeditated killing; or committed in the perpetration of,
or attempt to perpetrate, any arson, rape, burglary, or robbery;
or perpetrated from a premeditated design, unlawfully and
maliciously, to effect the death of any other human being other
than him who is killed; or perpetrated by any act greatly dangerous to the lives of others, and evidencing a depraved mind,
regardless of human life, ig murder in the first ilegree; and any
other homicide, committed under such circumstances as would
have constituted murder at common law, is murder in the
second degree." Compiled Laws Utah, 1873, p. 585. The punishment of murder in the first degree is death, or, upon the recommendation of the jury, imprisonment at hard labor in the
penitentiary at the discretion of the court; while the punishment for murder in the second degree is imprisonment at hard
labor in the penitentiary for not less than five nor more than
fifteen years. Ib. 586.
In view of these statutory provisions, to which the attention
of the jury was called, it is clear that the observation by the
court that "an atrocious and dastardly murder has been committed by some person," was, naturally, regarded by them as
an instruction that the offence, by whomsoever committed, was
murder in the first degree; whereas, it was for the jury, having
been informed as to what was murder, by the laws of Utah, to
say whether the facts made a case of murder in the first degree
or murder in the second degree.
It was competent for the judge, under the statutes of Utah,
to state to the jury "all matters of law necessary for their information," and, consequently, to inform them what those
statutes defined as murder in the first degree and murder in the

HOPT v. UTAH.
Opinion of the Court,

second degree. Laws of Utah, 1878, p. 120; Code of Crim.
Pro. § 283-4. But it is expressly declared by the Code of
Criminal Procedure that, while he may "state the testimony
and declare the law," he "must not charge the jury in respect
to matters of fact." § 257. The error committed was not
cured by the previous observation of the judge that by the laws
of Utah the jury are "the sole judges of the credibility of the
witnesses and of the weight of the evidence and of the facts."
It is rather more correct to say that the effect of that observation was destroyed by the statement at the conclusion of the
charge that the murder, by whomsoever committed, was an
atrocious and dastardly one, and therefore, as the jury might
infer, in view of the language of the statute, was murder in the
first degree. The prisoner had the right to the judgment of
the jury upon the facts, uninfluenced by any direction from the
court as to the weight of evidence.
For the reasons stated, the judgment of the Supreme Court
of the Territory must be reversed and the case remanded, with
directions that the verdict and judgment be set aside and a new
trial ordered.
The assignments of error, however, present other questions
of importance which, as they are likely to arise upon another
tral, we deem proper to examine.
4. The first of these questions relates to the action of the
court, in permitting Carr,-called as a witness for the defence,
to give in evidence a confession of the prisoner. That confession tended to implicate the accused in the crime charged.
The admissibility of such evidence so largely depends upon
the special circumstances connected with the confession, that
it is difficult, if not impossible, to formulate a rule that will
comprehend all cases. As the question is necessarily addressed,
in the first instance, to the judge, and since his discretion must
be controlled by all the attendant circumstances, the courts
have wisely forborne to mark with absolute precision the limits
of admission and exclusion. It is unnecessary in this case that
we should lay down any general rule on the subject; for we
are satisfied that the action of the trial court can be sustained
upon grounds which, according to the weight of authority, are

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

sufficient to admit confessions made by the accused to one in
authority.
It appears that the defendant was arrested at the railroad
depot in Cheyenne, Wyoming, by the witness Carr, who is a
detective, on the charge made in the indictment. The father
of the deceased, present at the time, wa much excited, and
may have made a motion to draw a revolver on the defendant;
but of that fact the witness did not speak positively. The
witness may have prevented hin from drawing a weapon, and
thinks he told him to do nothing rash. At the arrest a large
crowd gathered around the defendant; Carr hurried him off to
jail, sending with him a policeman, while he remained behind,
out of the hearing of the policeman and the defendant. In two
or three minutes he joined them, and immediately the accused
commenced making a confession. What conversation, if any,
occurred between the latter and the policeman during the brief
period of two or three minutes preceding the confession was
not known to the witness. So far as witness knew, the bill of
exceptions states, "the confession was voluntary and uninfluenced by hopes of reward or fear of punishment; he held out
no inducement, and did not know of any inducement being
held out to defendant to confess." Thiis was all the evidence
showing or tending to show that the confession was voluntary
or uninfluenced by hope of reward or fear of punishment.
While some of the adjudged cases indicate distrust of confessions which are not judicial, it is certain, as observed by Baron
Parke in Regina v. Bald, 2 Den. Cr. Cas. 430, 445, that the
rule against their admissibility has been sometimes carried too
far, and in its application justice and common sense have too
frequently been sacrificed at the shrine of mercy. A confession, if freely and voluntarily made, is evidence of the most
satisfactory character. Such a confession, said Eyre, 0. B., 1
Leach, 263, "is deserving of tie highest credit, because it is
presumed to flow from the strongest sense of guilt, and, therefore, it is admitted as proof of the crime to which it refers."
Elementary writers of authority concur in saying that, while
fr9m the .very nature of such evidence it must be subjected to
careful scrutiny and received with great cautioii, a deliberate

IIOPT v. UTATE
Opinion of the Court.

voluntary confession of guilt is among the most effectual proofs
in the law, and constitutes the strongest evidence against the
party making it that can be given of the facts stated in such
confession. 1 Greenleaf Ev. § 15; 1 Archbold Or. P1. 125;
1 Phillips' Ev. 533-34; Starkie Ev. 73.
But the presumption upon which weight is given -to such
evidence, namely, that one who is innocent will not imperil his
safety or prejudice his interests by an untrue statement, ceases
when the confession appears to have been made either in consequence of inducements of a temporal nature, held out by one
in authority, touching the charge preferred, or because of a
threat or promise by or in the presence of such person, which,
operating upon the fears or hopes of the accused, in reference
to the charge, deprives him of that freedom of willor self-control essential to make his confession voluntary within the
meaning of the law. Tested by these conditions, there seems
to have been no-reason to exclude the confession of the accused);
for the existence of any such inducements, threats or promises
seems to have been negatived by the statement of the circumstarjces under which it was made.
But it is contended that the court erred in not excluding this
proof until the prosecution produced the policeman and proved
that nothing was said or done by him, in the absence of Carr,
which unduly influenced the making of the confession. The
argument is, that, possibly, the policeman offered such inducements, or made such threats or"promises, that the prisoner,
when joined by Carr, was not in a condition of mind to make
a confession which the law would deem voluntary. This
position, although plausible, is not sustained by authority, nor
consistent with sound reason. The circumstances narrated by
the witness proved the confession to be voluntary, so far as
anything was said or done by him on the'immediate occasion.
There was nothing disclosed which made it the duty of the
court to require as a condition precedent to the admission of
the evidence, that the prosecution should call the policeman.
and show that he had not, when alone with the accused, unduly
influenced him to make a confession.
In Rex v. 0Okwe, 4 Carr. & Payne, 221; S. .3 Russell on

OCTOBER TERM, 1883
Opinion of the Court.

Crimes, Sharswood's Edit. 431-32, the prosecution proposed to
give in evidence a confession made by the accused before the
coroner. It appearing that a magistrate had previously an
interview with the prisoner, it was suggested that as he may
have been told by that officer that it was better to confess, the
prosecution should call him. But the court said that while it
would be fair in the prosecutors to call the magistrate, it would
not compel them to do so, but if they did not the prisoner
might do so if he chose. In Rex v. Willia.m Roscoe's Crim.
Evi. 7th Amer. Edit. 54; 3 Russell on Crimes, Tb. 432, it
appeared that a prisoner, being in the custody of two constables
on a charge of arson, a third person went into the room. The
prisoner immediately asked him to go into another room, as he
wished to speak to him. They went into that room and the
prisoner made a statement to that person. It was contended
that the constables ought to be called to prove that they had
done nothing to induce the prisoner to confess. But Taunton,
J., after consulting with Littledale, J., said:
"1We do not think according to the usual practice that we
ought to exclude the evidence because a constable may hav6 induced the prisoner to make the statement; otherwise he must in
all cases call the magistrates or constables before whom or in
whose custody the prisoner has been."
In Rex v. faner, 3 Russ. on Crimes, Sbarswood's Edit.
432, the prisoner, when before the committing magistrate,
having been duly cautioned, made a confession, in which he
alluded to one previously made to a constable. It was remarked by the court that although it was not deemed necessary
that a constable, in whose custody a prisoner had been, should
be called in every case, yet, in view of the reference to him, he
should be called. The constable being called proved that he
did not use any undue means to obtain a confession, but he
disclosed the fact that he had received the prisoner from
another constable, to whom the prisoner had made some statements. As it did not appear that any confession was made to
the latter, and only appeared that a statement was made that
might either be a confession, a denial, or an exculpation, the

HOPT v. UTAI.
Opinion of the Court.

court would not require him to be called. S.C. Roscoe's Crim.
Evi., 7th Amer. Edit. 5--5.
Roscoe (p. 554) states the rule to be, that "1in order to induce
the court to call another officer in whose custody the prisoner
has been, it must appear either that some inducement has been
used by or some exTress reference made to such officer." Russell says:
"1For the purpose of introducing a confession in evidence, it is
unnecessary, in general, to do more than negative any promise or
inducement held out by the person to whom the confession was
made.". Vol. 3, p. 431.

W hile a confession made to one in authority should not go
to the jury unless it appears to the court to have been voluntary,
yet as the plaintiff in error chose to let its admissibility rest
upon the case made by the detective, without any intimation
that it would be different if the policeman was examined, and
since there was nothing in the circumstances suggesting collusion between the officers, we do not, think the court was bound
to exclude the confession upon the sole ground that the policeman was not introduced.
5. The last question relates to the action of the, court in
admitting, as a witness in behalf of the prosecution, Emerson,
then serving out a sentence of confinement in the penitentiary for the crime of murder, and the judgment against whom
had never been reversed. His testimony tended to implicate
the defendant in the crime charged against him. Objection
was made to his competency as a witness, but the objection
was overruled.
At the time the homicide was committed, and when the indictment was returned, it was provided by the Criminal Procedure
Act of Utah of 1878 that "the rules for determining the competency of witnesses in civil actions are applicable also to criminal
actions and proceedings, except as otherwise provided in this
act." And the Civil Practice Act of that Territory provided,
§ 374, that "all persons, without exception, otherwise than as
specified in this chapter, may be witnesses in any action or proceeding. Facts which, by the common law, would cause the

OCTOBER TERI-,

1883.

Opinion of the Court.

exclusion of witnesses, may still be shown for the purpose of
affecting their credibility," Compiled Laws Utah, 505; further,
§ 378, that "persons against whom judgment has been rendered upon a conviction for felony, unless pardoned by the
governor, or such judgment has been reversed on appeal, shall
not be witnesses."
On the 9th day of :March, 1882, after the date of the alleged
homicide, but prior to the trial of the case, an act was passed
which repealed the section of the Civil Practice Act last
quoted.
It is contended that such repeal, by which convicted felons
were made competent witnesses in civil cases, did not make
them competent in criminal cases; in other words, for such is
the effect of the argument, those who were excluded as witnesses, under the Civil Practice Act, at the time the Criminal
Procedure Act of 1878 was adopted, remained incompetent in
criminal cases, unless their incompetency, in such cases, was
removed by some modification of the Civil Practice Act expressly declared to have reference to criminal prosecutions.
In this view we do not concur. It was, we think, intended
by the Criminal Procedure Act of 1878 to make the competency of witnesses in criminal actions and proceedings depend
upon the inquiry whether they were, when called to testify,
.excluded by the rules determidning their competency in civil
actions. If competent in civil actions, when called, they were,
for that reason, competent in criminal proceedings. The purpose was to have one rule on the subject applicable alike in
civil and criminal proceedings.
But it is insisted that the act of 1882, so construed, would,
as to this case, be an ex post facto law, within the meaning of
the Constitution of the United States, in that it permitted the
crime charged tobe established by witnesses whom the law, at
the time the homicide was committed, made incompetent to
testify in any case whatever.
The provision of the Constitution which prohibits the States
from passing expostfato laws was examined in ring v..2fis8ouri, 107 U. S. 221.

The whole subject was there fully and

carefully considered. The court, in view of the adjudged cases,

HOPT v. UTAH.
Opinion of the Court.

as wel1 as upon principle, held, that a provision of the Constitution of Missouri denying to the prisoner, charged with murder in the first degree, the benefit of the law as it was at the
commission of offence-under which a conviction of murder in
the second degree was an acquittal of murder in the first degree,
even though such judnent of conviction was subsequently reversed-was in conflict with the Constitution of the United
States.
That decision proceeded upon the ground that the State Constitution deprived the accused of a substantial right which the
law gave him when the offence was committed, and, therefore,
in its application to that offence and its consequences, altered
the situation of the paity to his disadvantage. By the law as
established when the offence was committed, Kring could not
have been punished with death after his conviction of murder
in the second degree, whereas by the abrogation of that law by
the constitutional provision subsequently adopted, he could
thereafter be tried and convicted of murder in the first degree,
and subjected to the punishment of death. Thus the judgment
of conviction of murder in the second degree was deprived of
all force as evidence to establish his absolute immunity thereafter from punishment for murder in the first degree. This
was held to be the deprivation of a substantial right which the
accused had at the time the alleged offence was committed.
But there axe no such features in the case before us. Statutes
which simply enlarge the class of persons who may be competent to testify in criminal cases are not expostfacto in their application to prosecutions for crimes committed prior to their
passage; for they do not attach criminality to any act previously done, and which was innocent when done; nor aggravate any crime theretofore committed; nor provide a greater
punishment therefor than was prescribed at the time of its commission; nor do they alter the degree, or lessen the amount or
measure, of the proof which was made necessary to conviction
when the crime was committed.
The crime for which the present defendant was indicted, the
punishment prescribed therefor, and the quantity or the degree
of proof necessary to establish his guilt, all remained unaffected

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

by the subsequent statute. Any statutory alteration of the
legal rules of evidence which would authorize conviction upon
less proof, in amount or degree, than was required when the
offence was committed, might, in respect of that offence, be obnoxious to the constitutional inhibition upon ex2 ostfacto laws.
But alterations which do not increase the punishment, nor
change the ingredients of the offence or the ultimate facts necessary to establish guilt, but-leaving untouched the nature of
the crime and the amount or degree of proof essential to conviction-only remove existing restrictions upon the competency of certain classes of persons as witnesses, relate to modes
of procedure only, in which no one can be said to have a vested
right, and which the State, upon grounds of public policy, may
regulate at pleasure. Such regulations of the mode in which
the facts constituting guilt may be placed before the jury, can
be made applicable to prosecutions or trials thereafter had,
without reference to the date of the commission of the offence
charged.
Jidgment reversed.

SWANN

v. WRIGHT'S EXECUTOR & Another.

APPEAL FROM THE

CIRCurr

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FO

H

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.
Argued December 18th, 19th, 183.-Decided March 3d, 1884.

Eato8pe7--ForeclosureSale- fortgage.
A purchaser of a railroad at a sale under decree of foreclosure of a first mortgage, and of sale of the mortgaged property, which recites that the sale shall
be made subject to liens established or to be established (on references before
had or then pending, to a master, with right to bondholders to appear and
oppose) as prior and superior liens to the lien of the bonds issued under the
mortgage, cannot dispute the validity of the liens thus established, even on

the ground of fraud alleged to have been discovered after confirmation of
the master's report fixing the amount of the liens.
Whether holders of the mortgage bonds may not contest such liens, and, if
successful, be substituted to so much thereof as was established for the
benefit of the fraudulent claims is not decided.

