LEGAL TENDER CASE.
Statement of Facts.

LEGAL TENDER CASE.
JUILLIARD v. GREE:NMAI.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TEE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Submitted January 22d, 188.-Decided March 3d, 1884.

ConstutionaZLaw-Legal Tender Notes-Statute8.
Congress has the constitutional power to make the treasury notes of the United
States a legal tender in payment of private debts, in time of peace as well
as in time of war.
Under the act of May 31st, 1878, ch. 146, which enacts that when any United
States legal tender notes may be redeemed or received into the Treasury,
and shall belong to the United States, they shall be reissued and paid out
again, and kept in circulation, notes so reissued are a legal tender.

Juilliard, a citizen of iNew York, brought an action against
Greenman, a citizen of Connecticut, in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York, alleging
that the plaintiff sold and delivered to the defendant, at his
special instance and request, one hundred bales of cotton, of
the value and for the agreed price of $5,122.90; and that the
defendant agreed to pay that sum in cash on the delivery
of the cotton, and had not paid the same or any part thereof,
except that he had paid the sum of $22.90 on account, and was
now justly indebted to the plaintiff therefor in the sum of
$5,100; and demanding judgment for this sum with interest
and costs.
The defendant in his answer admitted the citizenship of the
parties, the purchase and delivery of the cotton, and the agree
ment to pay therefor, as alleged; and averred that, after the
delivery of the cotton, he offered and tendered to the plaintiff,
in full payment, $22.50 in gold coin of the United States, forty
cents in silver coin of the United States, and two United States
notes, one of the denomination of $5,000, and the other of the
denomination of $100, of the description known as United
States legal tender notes, purporting by recital thereon to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

legal tender, at their respective facLe values, for all debts, public
and private, except duties on imports and interest on the public
debt, and which, after having been presented for payment, and
redeemed and paid in gold coin, since January 1st, 1879, at the
United States sub-treasury in New York, had been reissued
and kept in circulation under and in pursuance of the act of
Congress of May 31st, 1878, ch. 146 ; that at the time of offering and tendering these notes and coin to the plaintiff, the sum
of $5,122.90 was the entire amount due and owing in payment
for the cotton, but the plaintiff declined to receive the notes in
payment of $5,100 thereof; and that the defendant had ever since
remained, and still was, ready and willing to pay to the plaintiff the sum of $5,100 in these notes, and brought these notes
into court, ready to be paid to the plaintiff, if he would accept
them.
The plaintiff demurred to the answer, upon the grounds that
the defence, consisting of new matter, was insuffcient in law
upon its face, and that the facts stated in the answer did not
constitute any defence to the cause of action alleged.
The Circuit Court overruled the demurrer and gave judgment
for the defendant, and the plaintiff sued out this writ of error.
Xr. GeorgeF. Edmunds and Xr. William Allen Butler for
plaintiff in error.-The question presented by the assignment
of errors are: 1st. That the act of May 31st, 1878, entitled
"an act to prevent the further retirement of United States
legal tender notes," cannot be construed as giving to the United
States notes required by the act to be issued, paid out, and kept
in circulation, the incident or quality of legal tender; and 2d,
That if said act must be so construed, then it is, to that extent,
unconstitutional and void.
I.-The questions above stated, involving the construction
and validity of the act of May 31st, 1878, are open questions in
this court not controlled by the decision in the legal tender
cases, which related solely to the legal tender clauses of the
acts of 1862 and 1863, and upheld them solely in'
view of the
public exigency in reference to which they were enacted. The
legal tender clauses of the acts of February 25th, 1862, July

LEGAL TEN{DER CASE.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

11th, 1862, and March 3d, 1863, applied only to the United
States notes authorized by those acts to be issued by the Secretary of the Treasury as therein provided, and to be reissued by
him from time to time as the exigencies of the pablio service
might require. These clauses were enacted by Congress, were
approved by the Executive, and were upheld by this court in
the Legal Tender cases, 12 Wall. 457,as war measures, exceptional in their character, not authorized by any express grant
of power to Congress contained in the Constitution, but as not
prohibited by its terms, and as justified in view of the great
public exigencies which required their adoption. When the act of
1862, which first made treasury notes a legal tender, was under
consideration, the committee of the House in charge of the bill
consulted the Secretary of the Treasury, who replied:
"It is not unkngwn to them that I have felt, nor do I wish to
conceal that I now feel, great aversion to making anything but
-coin a legal tender in payment of debts. It has been my anxioug
wish to avoid the necessity of such legislation. It is, however, at
present, impossible, in consequence of the large expenditures entailed by the war, and the suspension of the banks, to procure
sufficient coin for disbursements; and it has, therefore, becom@
indispensably necessary that we should resort to the issue of United
States notes. . . . The committee, doubtless, feel the necessity of accompanying this measure by legislation .necessary to
secure the highest credit as well as the largest currency of these
notes. This security can be found, in my judgment, by proper
provisions for funding them in interest-bearing bonds; by wellguarded legislation authorizing banking associations with circulation based on the bonds in which the notes are funded; and by a
judicious system of adequate taxation."
The proposed legal tender clauses of the bill provoked protracted and earnest debate in the House of Representatives.
They were vigorously opposed, on the ground of unconstitutionality as well as impolicy, by leading representatives of both
political parties. The provision for making the notes a legal
tender was pressed by all its advocates as a war measure of
imperative necessity; as a means of national self-preservation,

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

justified and required by the end to be attained. The bill
finally passed the House under pressure of impending ruin to
the credit of the government, by a vote of 93 to 59. It then
passed the Senate, with amendments, after a motion to strike
out the legal tender clause had failed, by a vote of 17 to 22,
and, as the result of conference, was again passed by the House
of Representatives, February 25th, 1862, and on the same day
was approved by President Lincoln.
After noticing the acts of 1863 and 1864, counsel next referred to the legislation of 1865 and 1866, as showing no
authority to issue new legal tender notes, and as indicating a
purpose of gradually retiring those outstanding, and to the
legislation of 1868 as showing an intent to stop the reduction
and to permit reissues in place of mutilated notes. They cited
Lane Countyv. Oregon., 7 Wall. 71 ; Bronso,. v. Rodes, 7 Wall.
229; Butlee v. Horwitz, 7 Wall. 258; -Thompson,v. R ggs, 5
Wall. 663; Willard v. Tayloe, 8 Wall. 557, and Yeazie Bank
v. Fenno, 8 Wall, 533; in which the court held that the tax on
State bank circulation was constitutional. Shortly after this
H~epburn v. Griswold,8 Wall 603, was decided. The discussion
of the questions involved in that case embraced the whole subject of the power of Congress under the Constitution to pass
the Legal Tender Acts. The court as constituted at the time
of the argument and of the announcement of the decision,
under the operation of the act of July 23, 1866, was composed
of a chief justice and six associate justices. The opinion of the
court, delivered by Chief Justice Chase, Associate Justices Nelson, Clifford, and Field concurring, and also Mr. Justice Grier,
who ws a member of the court when the cause was decided
in conference (November 27th, 1869), and when the opinion
was directed to be read (January 29th, 1870), was adverse to the
constitutionality of the legal tender clauses 8 Wall. 604. Associate Justices Miller, Swayne and Davis dissented.
After the announcement of this decision a motion was made
to this court by the Attorney-General to reconsider the question
of the constitutionality of the Legal Tender Acts. The constitution of the court had, in the interval between the decision of
Hl'pb 'n v. G riswoldand the application for a reargument, been

ILEGAL TENDER CASE.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

changed by the act of April 10th, 1869, 16 Stat. 44, increasing
the number of associate judges to nine, which took effect on
the first Monday of December, 1869, and a motion for a reconsideration of the question was made before the court as thus
reconstituted. Subsequetly a majority of the court (four judges
dissenting) made an order that counsel for the parties denying
the validity of the legal tender clauses, and the Attorney-General, be heard upon the following questions: 1. Is the Act of
Congress, known as the Legal Tender Act, constitutional as to
contracts made before its passage? 2. Is it valid as applicable
to transactions since its ppssage? On April 18th, 1871, argument was accordingly again heard upon the above-stated
questions, not in the case of Re urn T. Griswold, but in two
cases pending in the court involving the question of the power
of Congress to make Treasury notes a legal tender between
private persons in the discharge of pre-existing debts, one of
which involved the question of the application of the, legal
tender clause in respect to contracts made after its passage.
On May 1st, 1871, the decision of the court was announced,
adjudging both of the above questions in the affirmative, 11
Wall 682; 12 Wall. 528; thereby overruling the case of Hepburn v. Griwold, and sustaining the constitutionality and
validity of the legal tender clauses of the acts of 1862 and 1863,
both as to contracts made before and after their passage. The
action of Congress in the passage of the first Legal Tender Act
was, as already exhibited, placed distinctly upon the ground of
the existing imperative needs of the government, and the legal
tender clause was urged and adopted as a war measure. The
action of the Executive department rested on the same ground.
Its uniformly declared policy, as already shown, whenever the
question arose requiring Executive action, was to treat thelegal
tender quality of the Treasury notes as a temporary expedient,
necessary as a means of averting national destruction, but otherwise unjustifiable. The Judicial department went no further
in the decision last above cited. Of the ten eminent members
of this court, before whom the question was argued, five deny
the existence in Congress of any constitutional power to give
to Treasury notes a legal tender quality for the payment of

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

debts, and five assert and sanction the power as exercised in
1862 and 1863 by the passage of the so-called Legal Tender
Acts in those years of the war.
In the retrospect and review of this sharp conflict of judicial
opinion, in which the voices of the members of this court are
equal, it is noteworthy that the learned judges and jurists who
condemned the acts of 1862 and 1863, did so upon grounds
which wholly prohibited Congress from ever exercising the
power exerted by those avowedly war measures.
In a large majority of the States represented in the Thirtyseventh Congress (1861-1863) the question of the Constitutionality of the legal tender clauses of the acts of 1862 and 1863
had arisen in various cases of private contract, and had been
passed upon in many instances after much deliberation and
research, by the judges of the courts of last resort. These
courts, by votes of the majority of the members composing
them, and in some instances with the concurrence of all the
judges, had declined to introduce into the transactions of the
people and the affairs of the country any such embarrassment
as might result from decisions of State courts, that a currency,
created in view of a great national emergency, and which for
several years had practically constituted the money of the
country, was unauthorized and invalid. In only two States,
New Jersey and Kentucky, were final decisions rendered adverse to the validity of the legal tender provisions of the acts.
See 20 N. J. Eq. 421; 2 Duvall, Ky. 26.
I.-The course of Congressional legislation, since the decision of the Legal Tender Oases, culminating in the act of ]Mfay
31st, 1878, 20 Stat. 87, which compels a post-redemption issue of
the so-called "Legal Tender notes," raises for the first time the
question of the power of Congress to direct the issue of United
States notes as currency, with the quality of legal tender, in
time of peace, and in the absence of anypublic exigency. The
following is the text of the act:
,,An act to forbid the further retirement of United States legal
tender notes.
"Be it enacted by the Senate and .ouse of -epresentatives of

LEGAL TEI)ER CASE.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the ITnited States of America, in Congress assembled, That from
and after the passage of this act it shall not be lawful for the
Secretary of the Treasury, or other officer under him, to cancel
or retire any more of the United States legal tender notes, and
when any of said notes may be redeemed or be received into the
treasury, under any law, from any source whatever, and shall belong to the United States, they shall not be retired, canceled or
destroyed ; but they shall be reissued and paid out again, and
kept in circulation ; Provided, That nothing herein shall prohibit the cancellation and destruction of mutilated notes and the
issue of other notes of like denomination in their stead, as now
provided by law.
"All acts and parts of acts in conflict herewith are hereby
repealed."
Approved May 31st, 1882.
On Jhnuary 1st, 1879, the resumption of specie payments
began, and all the United States notes then and since presented
for redemption in coin, in the manner provided by the resumption
act, have been paid. Under the construction given by the
Treasury Department to section 3579 of the Revised Statutes
coupled with the act of May 31st, 1878, all the United States
notes returned into the Treasury as worn and mutilated notes,
as well as those redeemed in coin, are treated in the report of
the Treasurer of the United States as "redeemed," and during
each year since the passage of the Act of May 31st, 1878, there
have been issued and paid out by the Treasury Department, the
precise amount in United States notes which have been so
"redeemed," but not in notes of the same denominations.
This course can only be justified by holding that Congress has
the power to direct the reissue of redeemed treasury notes, and
to continue their legal tender quality at its own will and
pleasure.
HI.-The act of May 31st, 1878, taken in connection with
the unrepealed provisions of the Resumption Act requiring
the redemption in coin on and after January 1st, 1879, of all
the United States legal tender notes then outstanding, can be
upheld as a constitutional exercise of power only by construing

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

it to require a new issue of such notes, after redemption, as a
circulating medium, without the quality of legal tender. The
Resumption Act, passed January 14th, 1875, required all the
United States legal tender notes outstanding January 1st, 1879,
to be redeemed in coin on presentation on and after that date.
It repealed all "provisions of law inconsistent" with its own
provisions. The only "provisions of laws" relating to the
United States legal tender notes which were in force January
14th, 1875, were sections 3571, 3579, 3582 and 3588 of the
Revised Statutes. All previous laws had been repealed. The
Revised Statutes contain and express the whole statute law of
the United States as it was on December 31st, 1873. United
States v. Bowen, 100 U. S. 508; Arthur v. Dodge, 101 Id. 34;
Victor v. Arthur, 104 Id. 428. The provisions of the Resumption Act applied to the same United States legal tender notes to
which the above cited sections of the Revised Statutes applied.
It directed the same notes to be redeemed in coin, and contained
no saving clause as to any future use of the notes after redemption. The redemption of the government paper in coin
meant the retirement and extinguishment of so much of the
debt as it represented The act of 1878 is the sole authority
for the use by the Treasury of this redeemed debt. There is no
provision in that act that the notes shall when again issued be
a legal tender for any purpose. Viewed as evidences of debt
they constituted a part of the debt of the United States for
payment of which in money Congress had made provision
by the Resumption Act. Viewed as currency, aside from the
quality of legal tender they were none the less evidences of debt,
with this additional function imposed upon them, and continued
subject to the provisions of that act. The repeal by the Resumption Act of all the statutes which created or continued the
legal tender element of the treasury note currency (including
section 3579 of the Revised Statutes), was as absolute as the
provision for the redemption of that currency, and the fact of
redemption, in respect to every note redeemed, executed the
law, and worked pro tanto a discharge of the debt with all its
incidents. The act of 1878 did not attempt to continue the existing debt because it contemplated the redemption of the notes

LEGAL TENDER CASE.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

given for the debt. It described them according to their wellknoun and statutory designation as "legal tender notes," and it
directed their use after redemption as obligations of the government and as a circulating medium, but without any reenactment of the legal tender provisions which applied to the
notes before their redemption. The general repealing clause
of the act, "All acts and parts of acts in conflict herewith are
repealed," does not revive the legal-tender clause, because (1)
there is no conflict between an act authorizing treasury notes
to be used as a circulating medium, and another act prohibiting
their use as a legal tender, and (2) the act itself, by applying its
provisions to "redeemed" notes, must be deemed to be consistent with and not in conflict with the Resumption Act.
It must, therefore, be concluded that Congress did not intend
by the Act of 'May 31st, 1878, to give to the new issue of the
paid-off United States notes which it required the legal tender
element. The act may be well construed as authorizing a
circulation of United States notes, without the quality of legal
tender, because this quality is not essential or necessary tothe
notes as a circulating medium. The power to issue notes in
the form of the present "greenback" is unquestioned. Like
bank notes, they are "bills of credit." While the Federal
Convention.struck out from the clause in the draft of the Constitution as reported, giving Congress the power "to borrow
money and emit bills on the credit of the United States," the
power to emit bills, the debate clearly shows that the thing
aimed at .was not the issuing of bills, but their issue'as a legal
tender. Madison Papers, vol. 3, p. 1343-1346, and note to p.
1346.
IV.-If the act of May 31st, 1878, was intended to direct
the keeping in circulation of the United States notes therein described, with the legal tender quality, it was to that extent unconstitutional and void, and should be so declared by this court.
Accepting as final th6 results of the previous discussion, we
confine ourselves to maintaining that the Constitution vests no
power in Congress, either by express grant, or as the result of
any one or all the powers which it confers, to create at will,
and in the absence of any national exigency, a legal tender paper

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Argument for Plainfiff in Error.

currency, to exist for an indefinite period, and to be an enforced
substitute for coin in the payment of public and private debts.
The existence of a public exigency is the sole basis on which
the power of Congress to pass legal tender laws has been maintained. The Legal Tender Cases, 12 Wall. 457. The question
of the constitutionality of an act of Congress, as well as the
question of its construction, must be considered in the light of
the history of the time when it was enacted. And whenever
the power sought to be exercised depends, or must be predicated, upon a given state of facts, the existence of the power is
a judicial question tD be determined upon the facts. The
growth of the assumption of admiralty jurisdiction by the
United States is a striking instance of this. Waringv. Clarke,
5 How. 441. Taney, 0. J., in the Genesee Mif v. _Fitzhugh,
12 How. 443-456; The Befast, 7 Wall. 624; Ihe -Magnolia,
20 How. 296; Insurance Company v. Dunham, 11 Wall. 1;
The Lottawanna, 20 Wall. 201. The same doctrine is maintained in the Slaughter-house Cases, 16 WalL 36. Without
multiplying citations, a general reference may suffice to the
numerous cases in which the constitutionality of acts of Congress passed during the civil war,, and the validity of proceedings taken under them, have been considered and decided by
this court in view of the facts on which they were based.
.Milier v. United States, 11 Wall. 268; Tyler v. Defrees, Id.
331. Civil Rights Cases-Strauderv. West Virginia,100 U. S.
303; West Virginia v. Rives, Id. 313. Ex parte Virginia, Id.
339; lVeal v. Delaware, 103 U. S. 370.
The exercise of jurisdiction by a court or a legislature assumes the existence of the jurisdiction in the tribunal or body
exercising it. When the jurisdiction actually exists, its exercise
cannot be attacked collaterally; but where it is dependent on
a given state of facts, and these do not exist, the judgment or
the statute is absolutely void, and may be assailed collaterally.
In the absence of public exigency, legal tender legislation is
not a means appropriate to any legitimate end of government.
While, .as to all express and enumerated powers vested in
Congress by the Constitution, it has been often held that it is
the province of Congress to judge as to the extent to which

LEGAL TENDER CASE.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

they are to be exercised, MTeelng-Bridge Case, 18 How. 421;
The Clinton Bridge, 10 Wall 451; South Carolinav. Georgia,
93 U. S. 4, at page 12; Gilman v. Philadephia,3 Wall. 713,
the rule is otherwise where the power is not given by express
terms, but is claimed to be implied as a necessary or proper
means to some legitimate end within the scope of the Constitution. The question whether the end is legitimate and within
the purview of the Constitution, and whether the means are
appropriate and not prohibited by but consistent with the letter
and spirit of the Constitution, is a judicial question, to be determined by this court, and has been so determined whenever
occasion required, from the case of fYarbuny v. .Yadison, 1
Cranch, 137, to the present day. This is necessarily involved
in the often quoted and universally accepted dictum of ChiefJustice Mfarshall, in -MeCullockv. State of Xaryznd, 4 Wheat.
316, p. 421.
"Let the end be legitimate-let it be within the scope of the
Constitution-and all means which are appropriate, which are
plainly adapted to that end, which are not prohibited, but consist
with the letter and the spirit of the Constitution, are constitutional."
On the basis of the proposition thus formulated this court, in
the case last cited, involving the question of the power of Congress to incorporate a bank, proceeded to inquire and to decide,
in the particular case before it, whether in: fact a bank was an
appropriate means adapted to a legitimate end of the government, and not prohibited by the Constitution.
In the present case the question turns chiefly upon the same
point. If the creation in any way, and by any means, of a
permanent lega4 tender paper currency as a practical substitute
for coin, is a legitimate end of our constitutional government
in its ordinary administration, irrespective of any existing and
pressing exigency, then the action of Congress in directing the
printing and issuing of treasury notes and in providing by
general terms that they shall be lawful money, and a legal
tender in payment of debts, public and private, and that they
shall never be retired or cancelled, but as fast as they return

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

into the Treasury shall be again paid out and kept in circulation, are appropriate means to such an end, and it needs only
for Congress to remove the existing limit of the issue and increase the amount in order to flood the country with a volume
of paper, utterly destructive of any other debt-paying medium.
But if, on the contrary, such was not the intent of the Constitution, and the power to make bills of credit a legal tender
is only to be implied in the presence of some existing and apparent necessity, then the fact of the existence of such necessity as the basis of the existence of the power is a question
for judicial determination. Congress being clothed only with
delegated powers, and the power in question not being expressly delegated, but derived from the general scope of those
expressly delegated, and to be used as a means to an end, the
inquiry whether the end sought to be attained is a legitimate
one, must properly be pursued in the judicial department of
the government. Otherwise the assertion and exercise by
Congress of any implied power, irrespective of facts or circumstances, would destroy all limitations, and give to the implied
powers a greater force than the exTress powers themselves.
It is not necessary to claim that the power upheld in reference to the acts of 1862 and 1863 is exclusively. a war power.
The definition woufld probably be sufficiently accurate, although
not necessarily complete. It is safe, however, to call it, as
sanctioned by this court, an extraordinary power. And it is
safe to say that it can be attributed to Congress only when
shown to be a means appropriate to a legitimate end of the
government. As such a means adapted to secure the most
important ends, including the preservation of the imperilled
union of the States, this court upheld it, in view of the extraordinary circumstances under which it was exerted. However derived, or however defined, the power itself was exhausted when the occasion which evoked it ceased. Tue
forced loans of 1862 and 1863, in the form of legal tender
notes, were vital forces in the struggle for the national supremacy. They formed a part of the public debt of the United
States, the validity of which is solemnly established by the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution. Their legal ten-

LEGAL TENDER CASE.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

der quality and their character of- currency were clue solely to
the war. To the war was due not only the exercise of the
power to give this quality and character, but the power itself.
The Resumption Act directed the forced loans authorized by
the acts of 1862 and 1863, and continued by the Revised Statutes of 1874, to be redeemed and paid on demand on and after
January 1st, 1879.
The Resumption Act also fixed the limit of time beyond
which the currency which evidenced the loans should not be
irredeemable. After January 1st, 1879, it was redeemable in
coin, and this quality of redeemability thenceforth inhered in
every United States note described in the Resumption Act. It
was not taken away by the act of :May 31st, 1878, and could
not be taken away, because the promise to pay the sum expressed in the treasury notes had been made by the Resumption Act a promise to pay in coin. Nothing short of a repeal
of the Resumption Act, and a repudiation of the obligation
which it created, could change the character of the promise.
After the Resumption Act was approved, every note outstanding Was as much a promise to pay in coin, on demand, on and
after January 1st, 1879, the sum specified, as if those words
had been printed on its face.
-It has never been possible to divorce the question of the constitutional power to coin the public credit into money, and
make it an instrument of discharging debts, from the history
of legal tender paper money and its consequences. Nor is it
possible now.
Facts have nowhere shown themselves to be more stubborn
than in this discussion. The strange anomaly is presented,
that while the mischiefs of the existing legal tender currency
are established beyond contradiction by the voice of history,
the teachings of experience, the recorded testimony of its
authors, and the repeated decisions of the court, we now find
it domesticated among us as an integral part of our national
economy, under legislation which, unless arrested by this court,
will warrant its perpetual continuance as a part of the ordinary
administration of the government.
It is matter of undisputed fact that, as to the legal tender
voL.

cx-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
'Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

quality, no public exigency required or justified the passage of
the act of May 21st, 1878.
It is equally plain that, as to the legal tender quality, in the
absence of a public exigency, no aid is derived to the act of
May 31st, 1878, from any of the powers granted by the Constitution to Congress.
It cannot be claimed, as to the legal tender quality, that the
prohibition to retire the United States notes when redeemed,
and the direction to issue them after redemption, irrespective
of any need of the government, was a legitimate exercise of
the power "to borrow money." The use of the legal tender
element was wholly unnecessary as a means of borrowing, and,
in fact, the whole public debt was provided for by the funding
measures, and the Resumption Act had explicitly directed that
portion of it which was represented by the legal tender notes
to be redeemed in coin. The legal tender quality was, therefore, not required as an incident or aid of the borrowing power.
The credit of the government was a sufficient guaranty for the
debt.
INor

can the issue of currency attempted by the act be

brought within the power "to coin money and regulate the
value thereof." Whatever may have been claimed under this
provision as to the original issue, it can have no application
here. The promise of the outstanding unredeemed legal tender
notes on May 31st, 1878, as enlarged by the Resumption Act,
had become a promise to pay on demand, in coin, the sum
specified by the notes respectively, and this obligation was not
interfered with by the act in question.
The act of May 31st, 1878, is, of course, unsupported by any
of the powers given to Congress to "declare war," or to "raise
and support armies" and "a navy," nor can public emergency
of any kind be pleaded as an excuse for its enactment. The
plea of the Secretary of the Treasury that the continuance of
the legal tender would be a safeguard against future emergencies, was an admission that no present emergency existed
which required its continuance or creation.
The claim for the exercise of the power attempted by the
act of May 31st, 1878, on the ground that it was intended to

LEGAL TENDER CASE.
Opinion of the Court.

supply a currency for the people, simply revives the question
whether making the "legal tender" and "lawful money"
qualities an attribute of such a currency is within the scope of
the powers of Congress. If we are right in claiming that these
qualities are wholly independent of the proper elements of
United States notes, when issued under ordinary conditions,
then the power to issue such notes does not imply or carry
with it the power to connect these qualities ivith the notes,
save in the exigency which creates the power.
The government of the United States has no power of inherent sovereignty, but only such sovereign powers as were delegated to it by a written Constitution, which carefully and expressly declared that all powers not delegated by that instrument
were reserved to the States and people. So that it would follow
that the power to create a legal paper currency, if it exist at all,
must exist by force of a delegation, and not by force of inherent sovereignty. On this principle it was that the Supreme
Court held the old war legal tenders to be valid, as a measure
incidental to the delegated war powers. The absence, therefore, of an express prohibition against Congress making anything but gold and silver a legal tender, as was made in respect
of the States, furnishes no evidence that such a power was
intended to be left with Congress. For the States without the
prohibition would have had the inherent sovereign power that
belonged to perfect political autonomies. This idea is illustrated by the analogous provision that no State shall pass any
law impairing the obligation of a contract, and by the historic
fact that it has always been held andadmitted that Congress has
no power to pass any law impairing the obligation of a contract
otherwise than in the exertion of some power expressly conferred, the effect of which would be to accomplish that result;
as the power to pass uniform bankruptcy laws, one of the incidents of which would be to impair the obligation of a contract.
.Mr.Benjamin F. Butkr, .fr. 1Tomm H. Talbot, and .Mr.
James M Keen for defendant in error.
Mi. JsTiE Gn&Y delivered the opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

The amount which the plaintiff seeks to recover, and which,
if the tender pleaded is insufficient in law, he is entitled to recover, is $5,100. There can, therefore, be no doubt of the jurisdiction of this court to revise the judgment of the Circuit Court.
Act of February 16th, 1875, ch. 77, ยง 3; 18 Stat. 315.
The notes of the United States, tendered in payment of the
defendant's debt to the plaintiff, were originally issued under
the acts of Congress of February 25th, 1862, ch. 33, July 11th,
1862, ch. 142, and March 3d, 1863, ch. 73, passed during the
war of the rebellion, and enacting that these notes should "1be
lawful money and a legal tender in payment of all debts, public and private, within the United States," except for duties on
imports and interest on the public debt. 12 Stat. 345, 532,
709.
The provisions of the earlier acts of Congress, so far as it is
necessary, for the understanding of the recent statutes, to quote
them, are re-enacted in the following provisions of the Revised
Statutes:
"SECT. 3579. When any United States notes are returned to
the Treasury, they may be reissued, from time to time, as the
exigencies of the public interest may require.
"SECT. 3580. When any United States notes returned to the
Treasury are so mutilated or otherwise injured as to be unfit for
use, the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to replace the
same with others of the same character and amounts.
"SECT. 3581. Mutilated United States notes, when replaced
according to law, and all other notes which by law are required
to be taken up and not reissued, when taken up shall be destroyed
in such manner and under such regulations as the-Secretary of
the Treasury may prescribe.
"SECT. 3582. The authority given to the Secretary of the
Treasury to make any reduction of the currency, by retiring and
cancelling United States notes, is suspended."
"SECT. 3588. United States notes shall be lawful money and a
legal tender in payment of all debts, public and pivate, within
the United States, except for duties on imports and interest on
the public debt."

The act of January 14th, 1875, ch. 15, "1to provide for the re-

LEGAL TENDER CASE.
Opinion of the Court.

sumption of specie payments," enacted that on and after January 1st, 1879, "the Secretary of the Treasury shall redeem in
coin the United States legal tender notes then outstanding, on
their presentation for redemption at the office of the Assistant
Treasurer of the United States in the City of New York, in
sums of not less than fifty-dollars," and authorized him to use
for that purpose any surplus revenues in the Treasury and the
proceeds of the sales of certain bonds of the United States.
18 Stat. 296.
The act of IMay 31st, 1878, ch. 146, under which the notes in
question were reissued, is entitled "An act to forbid the further
retirement of United States legal tender notes," and enacts as
follows:
"From and after the passage of this act it shall not be lawful
for the Secretary of the Treasury or other officer under him to
cancel or retire any more of the United States legal tender notes.
And when any of said notes may be redeemed or be received into
the Treasury under any law from any source whatever and shall
belong to the United States, they shall not be retired, cancelled
or destroyed, but "they shall be reissued and paid out again and
kept in circulation: Provided, 'That nothing herein shall prohibit the cancellation and destruction of mutilated notes and the
issue of other notes of like denomination in their stead, as now
provided by law. All acts and parts of acts in conflict herewith
are hereby repealed." 20 Stat. 87.
The manifest intention of this act is that the notes which it
directs, after having been redeemed, to be reissued and kept in
circulation, shall retain their original quality of being a legal
tender.
The single question, therefore, to be considered, and upon
the answer to which the judgment to be rendered between
these parties depends, is whether notes of the United States,
issued in time of war, under acts of Congress declaring them to
be a legal tender in payment of private debts, and afterwards
in time of peace redeemed and paid in gold coin at the Treas.
ury,and then reissued under the act of 1878, can, under the

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court

Constitution of the United States, be a legal tender in payment
of such debts.
Upon full consideration of the case, the court is unanimously
of opinion that it cannot be distinguished in principle from the
cases heretofore determined, reported under the names of the
Legal Tender Cases, 12 Wall. 457; Dooley v. Smith, 13 Wall.
604; Railroad Company v. Johnson, 15 Wall. 195 ; and 2faryland v. Railroad Company, 22 Wall. 105; and all the judges,
except Mr. Justice Field, who adheres to the -views expressed
in his dissenting opinions in those cases, are of opinion that
they were rightly decided.
The elaborate printed briefs submitted by counsel in this
case, and the opinions delivered in the -LegalTender Cases, and
in the earlier case of Hepburn v. Griswold, 8 Wall. 603, which
those cases overruled, forcibly present the arguments on either
side of the question of the power of Congress to make the notes
of the United States a legal tender in payment of private debts.
Without undertaking to deal with all those arguments, the
court has thought it fit that the grounds of its judgment in the
case at bar should be fully stated.
No question of the scope and extent of the implied powers
of Congress under the Constitution can be satisfactorily discussed without repeating much of the reasoning of Chief Justice
Marshall in the great judgment in Afcrullock v. .Aarland,4
Wheat. 316, by which the power of Congress to incorporate a
bank was demonstrated and affirmed, notwithstanding the
Constitution does not enumerate, among the powers granted,
that of establishing a bank or creating a corporation.
The people of the United States by the Constitution established a national government, with sovereign powers, legislative,
executive and judicial. "The government of the Union," said
Chief Justice Marshall, "though limited in its powers, is supreme
within its sphere of action;" "and its laws, when made in
pursuance of the Constitution, form the supreme law of the
land." "Among the enumerated powers of government,
we find the great powers to lay and collect taxes; to borrow
money; to regulate commerce; to declare and conduct a war;
and to raise and support armies and navies. The sword and

LEGAL TENDER CASE.
Opinion of the Court.

the purse, all the external relations,. and no inconsiderable
portion of the industry of the nation, are entrusted to its
government." 4 Wheat. 405, 406, 407.
A constitution, establishing a frame of government, declaring
fundamental principles, and creating a national sovereignty, and
intended to endure for ages and to be adapted to the various
crises of human affairs, is not to be interpreted with the strictness of a private contract. The Constitution of the United
States, by apt words of designation or general description,
marks the outlines of the powers granted to the national
legislature; but it does not undertake, with the precision and
detail of a code of laws, to enumerate the subdivisions of those
powers, or to specify all the means by which they may be carried into execution. Chief Justice Marshall, after dwelling upon
this view, as required by the very nature of the Constitution,
by the language in which it is framed, by the limitations upon
the general powers of Congress introduced in the ninth section
of the first article, and by the omission to use any restrictive
term which might prevent its receiving a fair and just interpretation, added these emphatic words: "In considering this
question, then, we must never forget that it is a constitution we
are expounding." 4 Wheat. 107. See also page 415.
The breadth and comprehensiveness of the words of the Constitution are nowhere more strikingly exhibited than in regard to
the powers over the subjects of revenue, finance, and currency,
of which there is no other express grant than may be found in
these few brief clauses:
"The Congress shall have power
"To lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts and excises, to pay
the debts and provide for the common defence and general welfare
of the United States; but all duties, imposts and excises shall be
uniform throughout the United States ;
"To borrow money on the credit of the United States;
โข To regulate commerce with foreign nations, and among the
several States, and with the Indian tribes ;"
"To coin money, regulate the value thereof, and of foreign coin,
and fix the standard of weights and measures."

440

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

The section which contains the grant of these and other principal legislative powers concludes by declaring that the Congress shall have power
"To make all laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying into execution the foregoing powers, and all other powers
vested by this Constitution in the government of the United States,
or in any department or officer thereof."

By the settled construction and the only reasonable interpretation of this clause, the words "necessary and proper" are
not limited to such measures as are absolutely and indispensably
necessary, without which the powers granted must fail of execution ; but they include all appropriate means which are conducive or adapted to the end to be accomplished, and which in
the judgment of Congress -will most advantageously effect it.
That clause of the Constitution which declares that "the
Congress shall have the power to lay and collect taxes, duties,
imposts and excises, to pay the debts and provide for the common defence and general welfare of the United States," either
embodies a grant of power to pay the debts of the United
States, or presupposes and assumes that power as inherent
in the United States as a sovereign government. But, in
which ever aspect it be considered, neither this nor any other
clause of the Constitution makes any mention of priority or
preference of the United States as a creditor over other creditors of an individual debtor. Yet this court, in the early case
of United States v. Fisher, 2 Cranch, 358, held that, under the
power to pay the debts of the United States, Congress had the
power to enact that debts due to the United States should
have that priority of payment out of the estate of an insolvent
debtor, which the law of England gave to debts due the
Crown.
In delivering judgment in that case, Chief Justice Marshall
expounded the clause giving Congress power to make all necessary and proper laws, as follows: "In construing this clause,
it would be incorrect, and would produce endless difficulties, if
the opinion should be maintained that no law was authorized

LEGAL TENDER CASE.
Opinion of the Court.

which was not indispensably necessary to give effect to a specified power. Where various systems might be adopted for
that purpose, it might be said with respect to each, that it was
not necessary, because the end might be obtained by other
means. Congress must possess the choice of means, and must
be empowered to use any means which are in fact conducive
to the exercise of a power granted by the Constitution. The
government is to pay the debt of the Union, and must be
authorized to use the means which appear to itself the most
eligible to effect that object." 2 Cranch, 396.
In _foC'ulloch v. Alaryland, he more fully developed the
same view, concluding thus: "We admit, as all must admit,
that the powers of the government are limited, and that its
limits are not to be transcended. But we think the sound construction of the Constitution must allow to the -national legislature that discretion, with respect to the means by which the
powers it confers are to be carried into execution, which will
'enable that body to perform the high duties assigned to it, in
the manner most beneficial to the people. Let the end be
legitimate, let it be within the scope of the Constitution, and
all means which are appropriate, which are plainly adapted to
that end, which are not prohibited, but consist with the letter
and spirit of the Constitution, are constitutional." 4 Wheat.
421.
The rule of interpretation thus laid down has been constantly
adhered to and acted on by this court, and was accepted as
expressing the true test by all the judges who took part in the
former discussions of the power of Congress to make the treasury notes of the United States a legal tender in payment of
private debts.
The other judgments delivered by Chief Justice Marshall
contain nothing adverse to the power of Congress to issue legal
tender notes.
By the Articles of Confederation of 1771, the United States
in Congress assembled were authorized "to borrow money or
emit bills on the credit of the United States;" but it was declared that "each State retains its sovereignty, freedom and
independence, and every power, jurisdiction and right which is

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Cour.

not by this confederation expressly .delegated to the United
States in Congress assembled." Art. 2; art. 9, ยง 5; 1 Stat.
4, 7. Yet, upon the question whether, under those articles,
Congress, by virtue of the power to emit bills on the credit of
the United States, had the power to make bills so emitted a
legal tender, Chief Justice Marshall spoke very guardedly, saying: " Congress emitted bills of credit to a large amount, and
did not, perhaps could not, make them a legal tender. This
power resided in the States" Craig v. .Zissouri, 4 Pet. 410,
435. But in the Constitution, as he had before observed in
Al cCullock v..faryland, "there is no phrase which, like the
Articles of Confederation, excludes incidental or implied powers; and which requires that everything granted shall be expressly and minutely described. Even the Tenth Amendment,
which was framed for the purpose of quieting the excessive
jealousies which had been excited, omits the word 'expressly,'
and declares only that the powers ' not delegated to the United
States, nor prohibited to the States, are reserved to the States
or to the people;' thus leaving the question, whether the particular power which may become the subject of contest has
been delegated to the one government or prohibited to the
other,'to depend on a fair construction of the whole instrument. The men who drew and adopted this amendment had
experienced the embarrassments resulting from the insertion
of this word in the Articles of Confederation, and probably
omitted it to avoid those embarrassments." 4 Wheat. 406,407.
The sentence sometimes quoted from his opinion in Sturgem
v. Crowninsheld had exclusive relation to the restrictions imposed by the Constitution on the powers of the States, and
especial reference to the effect of the clause prohibiting the
States from passing laws impairing the obligation of contracts,
as will clearly appear by quoting the whole paragraph: "Was
this general prohibition intended to prevent paper money? We
are not allowed to say so, because it is expressly provided that
no State shall ' emit bills of credit ;' neither could these words
be intended to restrain the States from enabling debtors to
discharge their debts by the tender of property of no real value
to the creditor, because for that subject also particular pro-

LEGAL TENDER CASE.
Opinion of the Court
vision is made. Nothing but gold and silver coin can be made
a tender in payment of debts." 4 Wheat. 122, 204.
Such reports as have come down to us of the debates in the
Convention that framed the Constitution afford no proof of
any general concurrence of opinion upon the subject before us.
The adoption of the motion to strike out the words "and emit
bills" from the clause "to borrow money and emit bills on the
credit of the United States" is quite inconclusive. The philippie delivered before the Assembly of Maryland by Mir. Martin,
one of the delegates from that State, who voted against the
motion, and who declined to sign the Constitution, can hardly
be accepted as satisfactory evidence of the reasons'or the motives of the majority of the Convention. See 1 Elliot's Debates,
345, 370,376. Some of the members of the Convention, indeed,
as appears by Mr. Madison's minutes of the debates, expressed
the strongest opposition to paper money. And Mr.. Madison
has disclosed the grounds of his own action, by recording that
"this vote in the affirmative by Virginia was occasioned by the
acquiescence of Mr. Madison, who became, satisfied that striking
out the words would not disable the government from the use
of public notes, so far as they could be safe and proper; and
Would only cut off the pretext for a paper currency, and particularly for making the bills a tender, either for public or
private debts." But he has not explained why he thought that
striking out the words "and emit bills" would leave the power
to emit bills, and deny the power to make them a tender in
payment of debts. And it cannot be known how many of the
other delegates, by whose vote the motion was adopted, intended neither to proclaim nor to deny the power to emit paper
money, and were influenced by the argument of Mr. Gorham,
who "was for striking out, without inserting any prohibition,"
and who said: "If the words stand, they may suggest and lead
to the emission." "The power, so far as it will be necessary
or safe, will be involved in that of borrowing." 5 Elliot's
Debates, 434, 435, and note. And after the first clause of the
tenth section of the first article had been reported in the form
in'which it now stands, forbidding the States to make anything
but gold or silver coin a tender in payment of debts, or to pass

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

any law impairing the obligation of contracts, when Mr. Gerry,
as reported by Mr. Madison, "entered into observations inculcating the importance of public faith, and the propriety of the
restraint put on the States from impairing the *obligation of
contracts, alleging that Congress ought to be laid under the
like prohibitions," and made a motion to that effect, he was
not seconded. lb. 546. As an illustration of the danger of
giving too much weight, upon such a question, to the debates
and the votes in the Convention, it may also be observed that
propositions to authorize Congress to grant charters of incorporation for national objects were strongly opposed, especially
as regarded banks, and defeated. Tb. 440, 543, 544. The
power of Congress to emit bills of credit, as well as to incorporate national banks, is now clearly established by decisions
to which we shall presently refer.
The words "to borrow money," as used in the Constitution,
to designate a power vested in the national government, for
the safety and welfare of the whole people, are not to rdceive
that limited and restricted interpretation and meaning which
they would have in a penal statute, or in an authority conferred,
by law or by contract, upon trustees or agents for private
purposes.
The power "to borrow money on the credit of the Unitel
States" is the power to raise money for the public use on a
pledge of the public credit, and may be exercised to meet
either present or anticipated 'expenses and liabilities of the
government. It includes the power to issue, in return for the
money borrowed, the obligations of the United States in any
appropriate forni, of stock, bonds, bills or notes; and in whatever formn they are issued, being instruments of the national
government, they are exempt from taxation by the governments
of the several States. We8ton v. Chareston City Caunoil, 2
Pet. 449 ; Banks v. Aayor, 7 Wall. 16; Bank v. Stvervisors,
I Wall. 26. Congress has authority to issue these obligations
in a form adapted to circulation from hand to hand in the
ordinary transactions of commerce and business. In order to
promote and facilitate such circulation, to adapt them to use as
currency, and to make them more current in the market, it may

ILEGAL TENDER CASE.
Opinion of the Court.

provide for their redemption in coin or bonds, and may make
them receivable in payment of debts to the government. So
much is settled beyond doubt, and was asserted or distinctly
admitted by the judges who dissented from the decision in the
Legal .Tender Cases, as well as by those who concurred in that
decision. leazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wal 533, 548j 1tepburr
v. Griswold, 8 Wall. 616, 636 ; Legal Tender Cases, 12 Wall
543, 5-14, 560, 582, 610, 613, 637.
It is equally well settled that Congress has the power to incorporate national banks, with the capacity, for their own
profit as well as for the use of the government in its money
transactions, of issuing bills which under ordinary circumstances
pass from hand to hand as money at their nominal value, and
which, when so current, the law has always recognized as a
good tender in payment of money debts, unless specifically objected to at the time of the tender. United States Bank v.
Bank,of Georgia,10 Wheat. 333, 347; lFardv. Smith, 7 Wall.
447, 451. The power of Congress to charter a bank was maintained in X3Cullock v. -Maryland,4 Wheat. 316, and in Osborn,
v. UnitedStates Bank, 9 Wheat.738, chiefly upon the ground that
it was an appropriate means for carrying on the money transactions of the government. But Chief Justice Marshall said:
"The currency which it circulates, by means of its trade with individuals, is believed to make it a more fit instrument for the
purposes of government than it could otherwise be; and if this
be true, the capacity to carry on this trade is a faculty indispensable to the character and objects of the institution." 9
Wheat. 864. And Mr. Justice Johnson, who concurred with
the rest of the court in upholding the power to incorporate a
bank, gave the further reason that it tended to give effect to
"that power over the currency of the country, which the
framers of the Constitution evidently intended to give to Congress alone." Tb. 873.
Th6 constitutional authority of Congress to provide a currency for the whole country is now firmly established. In
Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533, 548, Chief Justice Chase,
in delivering the opinion of the court, said: "It cannot be
doubted that under the Constitution the power to provide a

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.

Opinion of the Court.

circulation of coin is given to Congress. And it is settled by
the uniform practice of the government, and by repeated decisions, that Congress may constitutionally authorize the
emission of bills of credit." Congress, having undertaken to
supply a national currency, consisting of coin, of treasury notes
of the United States, and of the bills of national banks, is
authotized to impose on all State banks, or national banks, or
private bankers, paying out the notes of individuals or of State
banks, a tax of ten per cent. upon the amount of such notes so
paid out. Feazie Bank v. Fenno, above cited; A7ationa1
Ban7. v. United States, 101 U. S. 1. The reason for this conclusion was stated by Chief Justice Chase, and repeated by the
present Chief Justice, in these words: "Having thus, in the
exercise of undisputed constitutional powers, undertaken to provide a currency for the whole country, it cannot be questioned
that Congress may, constitutionally, secure the benefit of it to
the people by appropriate legislation. To this end, Congress
has denied the quality of legal tender to foreign coins, and has
provided by law against the imposition of counterfeit and base
coin on the community. To the same end, Congress may
restrain, by suitable enactments, the circulation as money of
any notes not issued under its own authority. Without this
power, indeed, its attempts to secure a sound and uniform currency for the country must be futile." 8 Wall. 549 ; 101 U. S.6.
By the Constitution of the United States, the several States
are prohibited from coining money, emitting bills of credit, or
making anything but gold and silver coin a tender in payment
of debts. But no intention can be inferred from this to deny
to Congress either of these powers. Most of the powers granted
to Congress are described in the eighth section of the first
article; the limitations intended to be set to its powers, so as
to exclude certain things which might otherwise be taken to be
included in the general grant, are defined in the ninth section;
the tenth section is addressed to the States only. This saction
prohibits the States from doing some things which the United
States are expressly prohibited from doing, as well as from
doing some things which the United States are expressly
authorized to do, and from doing some things which are

LEGAL TENDER CASE.
Opinion of the Court.

neither expressly granted nor expressly denied to the United
States. Congress and the States equally are expressly prohibited from passing any bill of attainder or exot facto law,
or granting any title of nobility. The States are forbidden,
while the President and Senate are expressly authorized, to
make treaties. The States are forbidden, but Congress is expressly authorized, to coin money. The States are prohibited
from emitting bills of credit; but Congress, which is neither
expressly authorized nor expressly forbidden to do so, has, as we
have already seen, been held to have the power of emitting
bills of credit, and of making every provision for their circulation as currency, short of giving them the quality of legal
tender for private debts-even by those who have denied its
authority to give them this quality.
It appears to us to follow, as a logical and necessary consequence, that Congress has the power to issue the obligations of
the United States in such form, and to impress upon them such
qualities as currency for the purchase of merchandise and the
payment of debts, as accord with the usage of sovereign governments. The power, as incident to the power of borrowing
money and issuing bills or notes of the government for money
borrowed, of impressing upon those bills or notes the quality of
being a legal tender for the payment of private debts, was a
power universally understood to belong to sovereignty, in
Europe and America, at the time of the framing and adoption
of the Constitution of the United States. The governments of
Europe, acting through the monarch or the legislature, according
to the distribution of powers under their respective constitutions,
had and have as sovereign a power of issuing paper money as
of stamping coin. This power has been distinctly recognized
in an important modem case, ably argued and fully considered,
in which the Emperor of Austria, as King of Hungary, obtained
from the English Court of Chancery an injunction against the
issue in England, without his license, of notes purporting to be
public paper money of Hungary. Aumtria v. Day, 2 Giff. 628,
and 3 D. F. & J. 217. The power of issuing -bills of credit, and
making them, at the discretion of the legislature, a tender in
payment of private debts, had long been exercised in this coun-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

try by the several Colonies and States; and during the Revolutionary War the States, upon the recommendation of the Congress of the Confederation, had made the bills issued by Congress a legal tender. See Craigv.-Hissouri,4 Pet. 435, 453;
.Briscoe v. Bankt of Kentucky, 11 Pet. 257, 313, 334--336;
LZegaZ Tener Cases, 12 Wall 557, 558, 622; Phillips on American Paper Currency, pazssim. The exercise of this power not
being prohibited to Congress by the Constitution, it is included
in the power expressly granted to borrow money on the credit
of the United States.
This position is fortified by the fact that Congress is vested
with the exclusive exercise of the analogous power of coining
money and regulating the value of domestic and foreign coin,
and also with the paramount power of regulating foreign and
interstate commerce. Under the power to borrow money on
the credit of the United States, and to issue circulating notes
for the money borrowed, its power to define the quality and
force of those notes as currency is as broad as the like power
over a metallic currency under the power to coin money and to
regulate the value thereof. Under the two powers, taken
together, Congress is authorized to establish a national currency,
either in coin or in paper, and to make that currency lawful
money for all purposes, as regards the national government or
private individuals.
The power of making the notes of.the United States a legal
tender in payment of private debts, being included in the
power to borrow money and to provide a national currency, is
not defeated or restricted by the fact that its exercise may
affect the value of private contracts. If, upon a just and fair
interpretation of the whole Constitution, a particular power or
authority appears to be vested in Congress, it is no constitutional objection to its existence, or to its exercise, that the property or the contracts of individuals may be incidentally affected.
The decisions of this court, already cited, afford several examples of this.
Upon the issue of stock, bonds, bills or notes of the United
States, the States are deprived of their power of taxation to the
extent of the property invested by individuals in such obliga-

LEGAL TENDER CASE.
Opinion of the Court.

tions, and the burden of State taxation upon other private property is correspondingly increased. The ten per cent. tax, imposed by Congress on notes of State banks and of private
bankers, not only lessens the value of such notes, but tends
to drive them, and all State banks of issue, out of existence.
The priority given to debts due to the United States over
the private debts of an insolvent debtor diminishes the value
of these debts, and Ithe amount which their holders may receive out of the debtor's estate.
So, under the power to coin money and to regulate its yalue,
Congress may (as it did with regard to gold by the act of June
28th, 1834, ch. 95, and with regard to silver by the act of
February 28th, 1878, ch. 20) issue coins of the same denominations as those already current by law, but of less intrinsic value
than those, by reason of containing a less weight of the precious metals, and thereby enable debtors to discharge their debts
by the payment of coins of the less real value. A contract to
pay a certain sum in money, without any stipulation as to the
kind of money in which it shall be paid, may always be satisfied by payment of that sum in any currency which is lawful
money at the place and time at which payment is to be made.
1 Hale P. 0. 192-194; Bac. Ab. Tender, B. 2; Pothier, Contract of Sale, No. 416; Pardessus, Droit Commercial, Nos. 204,
205; SearigM v. Calbraitk,4 Dall. 324. As observed by Mr.
Justice Strong, in delivering the opinion of the court in the
Legal Tender Cases, "1Every contract for the payment of
money, simply, is necessarily subject to the constitutional power
of the government over the currency, whatever that power
may be, and the obligation of the parties is, therefore, assumed
with reference to that power." 12 Wall. 549.
Congress, as the legislature of a sovereign nation, being expressly empowered by the Constitution "to lay and collect
taxes, to pay the debts and provide for the common defence
and general welfare of the United States," arid "to borrow
money on the credit of the United States," and "to coin money
and regulate the value thereof and of foreign coin;" and being
clearly authorized, as incidental to the exercise of those great
powers, to emit bills of credit, to charter national banks, and
voL cx-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

to provide a national currency for the whole people, in the
form of coin, treasury notes, and national bank bills; and the
power to make the notes of the government a legal tender in
payment of private debts being one of the powers belonging
to sovereignty in other civilized nations, and not expressly withheld from Congress by the Constitution; we are irresistibly
impelled to the conclusion that the impressing upon the treasury notes of the United States the quality of being a legal tender in payment of private debts is an appropriate means, conducive and plainly adapted to the execution of the undoubted
powers of Congress, consistent with the letter and spirit of the
Constitution, and therefore, within the meaning of that instrument, "necessary and proper for carrying into execution the
powers vested by this Constitution in the government of the
United States."
Such being our conclusion in matter of law, the question
whether at any particular time, in war or in peace, the exigency is such, by reason of unusual and pressing demands on
the resources of the government, or of the inadequacy of the
supply of gold and silver coin to furnish the currency needed
for the uses of the government and of the people, that. it is, as
matter of fact, wise and expedient to resort to this means, is a
political question, to be determined by Congress when the
question of exigency arises, and not a judicial question, to be
afterwards passed upon by the courts. To quote once more
from the judgment in -1c0ullock v. Xaryland: "Where the
law is not prohibited, and is really calculated to effect any of
the objects entrusted to the government, to undertake here to
inquire into the degree of its necessity would be to pass the
line which circumscribes the judicial department, and to tread
on legislative ground." 4 Wheat. 423.
It follows that the act of May 31st, 1878, ch. 146, is constitutional and valid; and that the Circuit Court rightly held
that the tender in treasury notes, reissued and kept in circulation under that act, was a tender of lawful money in payment
of the defendant's debt to the plaintiff.
hizdgmnt afflnd.

LEGAL TENDER CASE.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, T.

IfMn. JUsTICnE FiEL, dissenting.
From the judgment of the court in this case, and from all
the positions advanced in its support, I dissent. The question
of the power of Congress to impart the quality of legal tender
to the notes of the United States, and thus make them money
and a standard of value, is not new here. Unfortunately it
has been too frequently before the court, and its latest decision,
previous to this one, has never been entirely accepted and approved by the country. Nor should this excite surprise; for
whenever it is declared that this government, ordained to
establish justice, has the power to alter the condition of contracts between private parties, and authorize their payment
or discharge in something different from that which the
parties stipulated, thus disturbing the relations of commerce
and the business of the community generally, the doctrine will
not and ought not to be readily accepted. There will be
many who will adhere to the teachings and abide by the faith
of their fathers. So the question has come again, and will
continue to come until it is settled so as to uphold and not
impair the contracts of parties, to promote and not defeat
justice.
If there be anything in the history of the Constitution which
can be established with moral certainty, it is that the framers
of that instrument intended to prohibit the issue of legal tender
notes both by the general government and by the States; and
thus prevent interference with the contracts of private parties.
During the Revolution and the period of the old Confederation,
the Continental Congress issued bills of credit, and upon its
recommendation the States made them a legal tender, and the
refusal to receive them an extinguishment of the debts for
which they were offered. They also enacted severe penalties
against 'those who refused to accept them at their nominal
value, as equal to coin, in exchange for commodities. And
previously, as early as January, 1776, Congress had declared
that, if any person should be " so lost to all virtue and regard
for his country" as to refuse to receive in payment the bills
then issued, he should, on conviction thereof, be "1deemed,
published, and treated as an enemy of his country, and pre-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

cluded from all trade and intercourse with the inhabitants of
the colonies."
Yet, this legislation proved ineffectual; the universal law of
currency prevailed, which makes promises of money valuable
only as they are convertible into coin. The notes depreciated
until they became valueless in the hands of their possessors.
So it always will be; legislative declaration cannot make.the
promise of a thing the equivalent of the thing itself.
The legislation to which the States were thus induced to resort was not confined to the attempt to make paper money a
legal tender for debts; but the principle that private contracts
could be legally impaired, and their obligation disregarded,
being once established, other measures equally dishonest and
destructive of good faith between parties were adopted. What
followed is thus stated by Mr. Justice Story, in his Commentaries:
"The history, indeed," he says, "of the various laws which
were passed by the States, in their colonial and independent

character, upon this subject, is startling at once to our morals, to
our patriotism, and to our sense of justice. Not only was paper
money issued and declared to be a tender in payment of debts,
but laws of another character, well known under the appellation
of tender laws, appraisement laws, instalment laws, and suspension laws, were from time to time enacted, which prostrated all
private credit and all private morals. By some of these laws the
due payment of debts was suspended ; debts were, in violation
of the very terms of the contract, authorized to be paid by instalments at different periods ; property of any sort, however worthless, either real or personal, might be tendered by the debtor in
payment of his debts ; and the creditor was compelled to take the
property of the debtor, which he might seize on execution, at an
appraisement wholly disproportionate to its known value. Such
grievances and oppressions, and others of a like nature, were the
ordinary results of legislation during the Revolutionary War and
the intermediate period down to the formation of the Constitution. They entailed the most enormous evils on the country, and
introduced a system of fraud, chicanery, and profligacy which
destroyed all private confidence and all industry and enterprise."
2 Story on the Constitution, ยง 1371.

LEGAL TENDER CASE.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

To put an end to this vicious system of legislation which
only encouraged fraud, thus graphically described by Story,
the clauses which forbid the States from emitting bills of credit
or making anything but gold and silver a tender in payment of
debts, or passing any law impairing the obligation of contracts,
were inserted in the Constitution.
"The attention of the Convention, therefore," says Chief Justice Marshall, "was particularly directed to paper money and to
acts which- enabled the debtor to discharge his debt otherwise
than was stipulated in the contract. Had nothing more been intended, nothing more would have been expressed, but in the
opinion of the Convention much more remained to be done. The
same mischief might be effected by other means. To restore public confidence completely, it was necessary, not only to prohibit
the use of particular means by which it might be effected, but to
prohibit the use of any means by which the same mischief might
be produced. The Convention appears to have intended to establish a great principle, that contracts should be inviolable."
Sturges v. Crowninshield, 4 Wheat. 122, 206.

It would be difficult to believe, even in the absence of the
historical evidence we have on the subject, that the framers of
the Constitution, profoundly impressed by the evils resulting
from this kind of legislation, ever intended that the new government, ordained to establish justice, should possess the power
of making its bills a legal tender, which they were unwilling
should remain with the States, and which in the past had
proved so dangerous to the peace of the community, so disturbing to the business of the people, and so destructive of their
morality.
The great historian of our country has recently given to the
world a history of the Convention, the result of years of labor
in the examination. of all public documents relating to its formation and of the recorded opinions of its framers; and thus he
writes:
"With the full recollection of the need or seeming need of
paper money in the Revolution, with the menace of danger in
future time of war from its prohibition, authority to issue bills of

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.
credit that should be legal tender was refused to the general government by the vote of nine States against New Jersey and
Maryland. It was Madison who decided the vote of Virginia,
and he has left his testimony that ' the pretext for a paper curreney, and particularly for making the bills a tender, either for
public or private debts, was cut off.' This is the interpretation
of the clause made at the time of its adoption, alike by its authors and by its opponents, accepted by all the statesmen of that
age, not open to dispute because too clear for argument, and
never disputed so long as any one man who took part in framing
the Constitution remained alive. History cannot name a man
vho has gained enduring honor by causing the issue of paper
money. Wherever such paper has been employed it has in every
case thrown upon its authors the burden of exculpation under
the plea of pressing necessity." Bancroft's History of the Formation of the Constitution, 2 vol., 134.
And when the Convention came to the prohibition upon the
States, the historian says that the clause, "No State shall make
anything but gold and silver a tender in payment of debts,"
was accepted without a dissentient State:
"So the adoption of 'the Constitution," he adds, "is to be the
end forever of paper money, whether issued by the several States
or by the United States, if the Constitution shall be rightly interpreted and honestly obeyed." Id. 137.
For nearly three-quarters of a century after the adoption of
the Constitution, and until the legislation during the recent
civil war, no jurist and no statesman of any position in the
country ever pretended that a power to impart the quality of
legal tender to its notes was vested in the general government.
There is no recorded word of even one in favor of its possessing the power. All conceded, as an axiom of constitutional
law, that the power did not exist.
M fr. Webster, from his first entrance into public life in 1812,
gave great consideration to the subject of the currency, and in
an elaborate speech on that subject, made in the Senate in
1836, then sitting in this room, he said:

LEGAL TENDER CASE.
Dissenting Opinicn: Field, J.

Currency, in a large and perhaps just sense, includes not only
gold and silver and bank bills, but bills of exchange also. It may
include all that adjusts exchanges and settles balances in the
operations of trade and business ; but if we understand by currency the legal money of the country, and that which constitutes
a legal tender for debts, and is the standard measure of value,
then undoubtedly nothing is included but gold and silver. Most
unquestionably there is no legal tender, and there can be no legal
tender in this country, under the authority of this government or
any other, but gold and silver, either the coinage of our own
mints or foreign coins at rates regulated by Congress. This is a
constitutional principle, perfectly plain and of the highest importance. The States are expressly prohibited from making anything but gold and silver a legal tender in payment of debts, and
although no such express prohibition is applied to Congress, yet,
as Congress has no power granted to it in this respect but to
coin money and to regulate the value of foreign coins, it clearly
has no power to substitute paper or anything else for coin as a
tender in payment of debts and in discharge of contracts. Congress has exerciged this power fully in both its branches ; it has
coined money, and still coins it; it has regulated the value of
foreign coins, and still regulates their value. The legal tender,
therefore, the constitutional standard of .value, is established and
cannot be overthrown. To overthrow it would shake the whole
system." 4 Webster's Works, 271.
When the idea of imparting the legal tender quality to the
notes of the United States issued under the first act of 1862
was first broached, the advocates of the measure rested their
support of it on the ground that it was a war measure, to which
the country was compelled to resort by the exigencies of its
condition, being then sorely pressed by the Confederate forces,
and requiring the daily expenditure of enormous sums to maintain its army and navy and to carry on the government. The
representative who introduced the bill in the House, declared
that it was a measure of that nature, "one of necessity and not
of choice;" that the times were extraordinary and that extraordinary measures must be resorted to in order to save our
government and preserve our nationality. Speech of Spauld-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

.ing,of New York, Cong. Globe, 1861-62, Part 1, 523. Other
members of the House frankly confessed their doubt as to its
constitutionality, but yielded their support of it under the pressure of this supposed necessity.
In the Senate also the measure was pressed for the same
reasons. When the act was reported by the committee on
finance, its chairman, while opposing the legal tender provision,
said:
"It is put on the ground of absolute, overwhelming necessity;
that the government has now arrived at that point when it must
have funds, and those funds are not to be obtained from ordinary
sources, or from any of the expedients to which we have heretofore had recourse, and therefore, this new, anomalous, and remarkable provision must be resorted to in order to enable the
government to pay off the debt that it now owes and afford circulation which will be available for other purposes." Cong.
Globe, 1861-62, Part 1, 764.

And upon that ground the provision was adopted, some of
the senators stating that in the exigency then existing money
must be had, and they, therefore, sustained the measure, although they apprehended danger from the experiment. "The
medicine of the Constitution," said Senator Sumner, "must
not become its daily food." Id. 800. A similar necessity was
urged upon the State tribunals and this court in justification
of the measure, -when its validity was questioned. The dissenting opinion in Hejpbukn v. Griswold referred to the pressure
that was upon the government at the time to enable it to raise
and support an army and to provide and maintain a navy.
Chief Justice Chase, who gave the prevailing opinion in that
case, also spoke of the existence of the feeling when the bill
was passed that the provision was necessary. He favored the
provision on that ground when Se6retary of the Treasury, although he had come to that conclusion with reluctance, and
recommended its adoption by Congress. When the question
as to its validity reached this court, this expression of favor
was referred to, and by many it was supposed that it would
control his judicial action. But after long pondering upon the

LEGAL TENDER CASE.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

subject, after listening-to repeated arguments by able counsel,
he decided against the constitutionality of the provision; and,
holding in his hands the casting vote, he determined the judgment of the court. Ile thus preferred to preserve his integrity
as a judicial officer rather than his consistency as a statesman.
In his opinion he thus referred to his previous views:
"It is not surprising that amid the tumult of the late civil war,
and under the influence of apprehensions for the safety of the Republic almost universal, different views, never before entertained
by American statesmen or jurists, were adopted by many. The
time was not favorable to considerate reflection upon the constitutional limits of legislative or executive authority. If power was assumed from patriotic motives, the assumption found ready justification in patriotic hearts. Many who doubted yielded their doubts;
many who did not doubt were silent. Some who were strongly
averse to making government notes a legal tender felt themselves
constrained to acquiesce in the views of the advocates of the measure. Not a few who then insisted upon its necessity, or acquiesced in that view, have, since the return of peace, and under the
influence of the calmer time, reconsidered their conclusions,
and now concur in those which we have just announced. These
conclusions seem to us to be fully sanctioned by the letter and
spirit of the Constitution." 8 Wall. 625.
It must be evident, however, upon reflection that if there
were any power in the government of the United States to
impart the quality of legal tender to its promissory notes, it
was for Congress to determine when the necessity for its exercise existed ; that war merely increased the urgency for money;
it did not add to the powers of the government nor change
their nature; that if the power existed it might be equally
exercised when a loan was made to meet ordinary expenses in
time of peace as when vast sums were needed to support an
army or a navy in time of war. The wants of the government could never be the measure of its powers. But in the
excitement and apprehensions of the war these considerations
were unheeded; the measure was passed as one of overruling

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

necessity in a perilous crisis of the country. Now, it is no
longer advocated as one of necessity, but as one that may be
adopted at any time. Never before was it contended by any
jurist or commentator on the Constitution that the government, in full receipt of ample income, with a treasury overflowing, with more money on hand than it knows what to do
with, could issue paper money as a legal tender. What was
in 1862 called the "medicine of the Constitution" has now
become its daily bread. So it always happens that whenever
a wrong principle of conduct, political or personal, is adopted
on a plea of necessity, it will be afterwards followed on a plea
of convenience.
The advocates of the measure have not been consistent in
the designation of the power upon which they have supported
its validity, some placing it on the power to borrow money,
some on the coining power, and some have claimed it as an
incident to the general powers of the government. In the
present case it is placed by the court upon the power to borrow money, and the alleged sovereignty of the United States
over the currency. It is assumed that this power, when exercised by the government, is something different from what it
is when exercised by corporations or individuals, and that
the government has, by the legal tender provision, the
power to enforce loans of money because the sovereign governments of European countries have claimed and exercised such
power.
"The words to borrow money," says the court, "are not to
receive that limited and restricted interpretation and meaning
which they would have in a penal statute or in an authority conferred by law or by contract upon trustees or agents for private
purposes." And it adds that "the power, as incident to the
power of borrowing money and issuing bills or notes of the government for money borrowed, of impressing upon those bills or
notes the quality of being a legal tender for the payment of private debts, was a power universally understood to belong to sovereignty, in Europe and America, at the time of the framing and
adoption of the Constitution of the United States. The govern-

LEGAL TENDER CASE.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.
ments of Europe, acting through the monarch or the legislature,
according to the distribution of powers under their respective
constitutions, had and have as sovereign a power of issuing paper
money as of stamping coin," and that "the exercise of this power
not being prohibited to Congress by the Constitution, it is included in the power expressly granted to borrow money on the
credit of the United States."
As to the terms to borrow mnoney, where, I would ask, does
the court find any authority for giving to them a different interpretation in the Constitution from what they receive when
used in other instruments as in the charters of municipal bodies
or of private corporations, or in the contracts of individuals?
They are not ambiguous; they have a well-settled meaning
in other instruments. If the court may change that in
the Constitution, so it may the meaning of all other clauses;
and the powers which the government may exercise will be
found declared, not by plain words in the organic law, but by
words of a new significance resting in the minds of the judges.
Until some authority beyond the alleged claim and practice of
the sovereign governments of Europe be produced, I must
believe that the terms have the same meaning in all instruments
wherever they are used; that they mean a power only to contract for a loan of money, upon considerations to be agreed between the parties. The conditions of the loan, or whether any
particular security shall be given to the lender, are matters of
arrangement between the parties; they do not concern any one
else. They do not imply that the borrower can give to his
promise to refund the money any security to the lender outside
of property or rights which he possesses. The transaction is
completed when the lender parts with his money and the borrower gives his promise to pay at the time and in the manner
and with the securities agreed upon. Whatever stipulations may
be made, to add to the value of the promise or to secure its
fulfilment, must necessarily be limited to the property, rights,
and privileges which the borrower possesses. Whether he can
add to his promises any element which will induce others

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

to receive them beyond the security which he gives for their
payment, depends upon his power to control such element. If
he has a right to put a limitation upon the use of other persons'
property, or to enforce an exaction of some benefit from them,
he may give such privilege to the lender; but if he has no right
thus to interfere with the property or possessions of others of
course he can give none. It will hardly be pretended that the
government of the United States has any power to enter into
an engagement that, as security for its notes, the lender shall
have special privileges with respect to the visible property
of others, shall be able to occupy a portion of their lands or their
houses, and thus interfere with the possession and use of their
property. If the government cannot do that, how can it step
in and say, as a condition of loaning money, that the lender
shall have a right to interfere with contracts between private
parties? A large proportion of the property of the world exists in dontracts, and the government has no more right to deprive one of their value by legislation operating directly upon
them, than it has a right to deprive one of the value of any
visible and tangible property. No one, I think, will pretend
that individuals or corporations possess the power to impart to
their evidences of indebtedness any quality by which the holder
will be able to affect the contracts of other parties, strangers to
the loan; nor would any one pretend that Congress possesses
the power to impart any such quality to the notes of the
United States, except from the clause authorizing it to make
laws necessary and proper to the execution of its powers. That
clause, however, does not enlarge the expressly designated
powers; it merely states what Congress could have done without its insertion in the Constitution. Without it Congress could
have adopted any appropriate means to borrow; but that can
only be appropriate for that purpose which has some relation
of fitness to the end, which has respect to the terms essential
to the contract, or to the securities which the borrower may
furnish for the repayment of the loan. The quality of legal
tender does not touch the terms of the contract; that is complete without it ; nor does it stand as a security for the loan, for

LEGAL TENDER CASE.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

a security is a thing pledged, over which the borrower has some
control, or in which he holds some interest.
The argument presented -by the advocates of legal tender is,
in substance, this: The object of borrowing is to raise funds,
the addition of the quality of legal tender to the notes of tho
government will induce parties to take them, and funds will
thereby be more readily loaned. But the same thing may be
said of the addition of any other quality which would give to
the holder of the notes some advantage over the property of
others, as, for instance, that the notes should serve as a pass
on the public conveyances of the country, or as a ticket to
places of amusement, or should exempt his property from State
and municipal taxation or entitle him to the free use of the telegraph lines, or to a percentage from the revenues of private
corporations. The same consequence, a ready acceptance of
the notes, would follow: and yet no one would pretend that
the addition of privileges of this kind with respect to the property of others, over which the borrower has no control, would
be in any sense an appropriate measure to the execution of the
power to borrow.
Undoubtedly the power to borrow includes the power to give
evidences of the loan in bonds, treasury notes, or in such other
form as may be agreed between the parties. These may be issued in such amounts as will fit them. for circulation, and for
that purpose may be made payable to bearer, and transferable by
delivery. Experience has shown that the form best fitted to
secure their ready acceptance is that of notes payable to bearer,
in such amounts as may suit the ability of the lender. The
government, in substance, says to parties with whom it deals:
lend us your money, or furnish us with your products or your
labor, and we will ultimately pay you, and as evidence of it we
will give you our notes, in such form and amount as may suit
your convenience, and enable you to transfer them; we will
also receive them for certain demands due to us. In all this
matter there is only a dealing between the government and the
individuals who trust it. The transaction concerns no others.
The power which authorizes it is a very different one from a

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

power to deal between parties to private contracts in which the
government is not interested, and to compel the receipt of
these promises to pay in place of the money for which the contracts stipulated. This latter power is not an incident to the
former; it is a distinct and far greater power. There is no
legal connection between the two; between the power to borrow from those willing to lend and the power to interfere with
the independent contracts of others. The possession of this
latter power would justify the interference of the government
with any rights of property of other parties, under the pretence
that its allowance to the holders if the notes would lead to
their more ready acceptance, and thus furnish the needed
means.

The power vested in Congress to coin money does not in my
judgment fortify the position of the court as its opinion affirms.
So far from deducing from that power any authority to impress
the notes of the government with the quality of legal tender,
its existence seems to me inconsistent with a power to make
anything but coin a legal tender. The meaning of the terms
"to coin money" is not at all doubtful. It is to mould metallic
substances into forms convenient for circulation and to stamp
them with the impress of the government authority indicating
their value with reference to the unit of value established by
law. Coins are pieces of metal of definite weight and value,
stamped such by the iuthority of the government. If any
doubt could exist that the power has reference to metallic substances only it would be removed by the language which immediately follows, authorizing Congress to regulate the value
of money thus coined and of foreign coin, and also by clauses
making a distinction between coin and the obligations of the
general government and of the States. Thus, in the clause authorizing Congress "to provide for the punishment of counterfeiting the securities and current coin of the United States," a
distinction is made between the obligations and the coin of the
government.
Mfoney is not only a medium of exchange, but it is a standard
of value. Nothing can be such standard which has not intrin-

LEGAL TEISDER CASE.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, T.

sic value, or which is subject to frequent changes in value.
From the earliest period in the history of civilized nations, we
find pieces of gold and silver used as money. These metals are
scattered over the world in small quantities; they are susceptible of division, capable of easy impression, have more value in
proportion to weight and size, and are less subject to loss by
wear and abrasion than any other material possessing these
qualities. It requires labor to obtain them; they are not dependent upon legislation or the caprices of the multitude; they
cannot be manufactured or decreed into existence, and they do
not perish by lapse of time. They have, therefore, naturally, if
not necessarily, become throughout the world a standard of
value. In exchange for pieces of them, products requiring an
equal amount of labor, are readily given. When the product
and the piece of metal represent the same labor, or an approximation to it, they are freely exchanged. There can be no adequate substitute for these metals. Says Mr. Webster, in a
speech made in the House of Representatives in 1815 :
"The circulating medium of a commercial community must be
that which is also the circulating medium of other commercial
communities, or must be capable of being converted into that medium without loss. It must also be able, not only to pass in payments and receipts among individuals of the same society and
nation, but to adjust and discharge the balance of exchanges between different nations. It must be something which has a value
abroad as well as at home, by which foreign as well as domestic
debts can be satisfied. The precious metals alone answer these
purposes. They alone, therefore, are money, and whatever else
is to perform the functions of money must be their representative,
and capable of being turned into them at will. So long as bank
paper retains this quality it is a substitute for money ; divested
of this, nothing can give it that character." 3 Webster's Works,
41.
The clause to coin money must be read in connection with
the prohibition upon the States to make anything but gold and
silver coin a tender in payment of debts. The two taken to-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

gether clearly show that the coins to be fabricated under the
authority of the general government, and as such to be a legal
tender for debts, are to be composed principally, if not entirely
of the metals of gold and silver. Coins of such metals are
necessarily a legal tender to the amount of their respective
values without any legislative enactment, and the statute of
the United States providing that they shall be such tender is
only declaratory of their effect when offered in payment.
When the Constitution says, therefore, that Congress shall have
the power to coin money, interpreting that clause with the prohibition upon the States, it says it shall have the power to
make coins of the precious metals a legal tender, for that alone
which is money can be a legal tender. If this be the true import of the language, nothing else can be made a legal tender.
We all know that the value of the notes of the government in
the market, and in the commercial world generally, depends
upon their convertibility on demand into coin; and as confidence in such convertibility increases or diminishes, so does the
exchangeable value of the notes vary. So far from becoming
themselves standards of value by reason of the legislative declaration to that effect, their own value is measured by the facility
with which they can be exchanged into that which alone is
regarded as money by the commercial world. They are
promises of money, but they are not money in the sense of the
Constitution. The term money is used in that instrument in
several clauses; in the one authorizing Congress "to borrow
money;" in the one authorizing Congress "to coin money;"
in the one declaring that "no money" shall be drawn from the
treasury but in consequence of appropriations made by law;
and in the one declaring that no State shall "coin money."
And it is a settled rule of interpretation that the same term
occurring in different parts of the same instrument shall be
taken in the same sense, unless there be something in the context indicating that a different meaning was intended. Now,
to coin money is, as I have said, to make coins out of metallic
substances, and the only money the value of which Congress
can regulate is coined money, either of our mints or of foreign

LEGAL TENDER CASE.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.
countries. It should seem, therefore, that to borrow money is
to obtain a loan of coined money, that is, money composed of
the precious metals, representing value in the purchase of property and payment of debts. Between the promises of the
government, designated as its securities, and this money, the
Constitution draws a distinction, which disappears in the opinion
of the court.
The opinion not only declares that it is in the power of Congress to make the notes of the government a legal tender and
a standard of value, but that under the power to coin money
and regulate the value thereof, Congress may issue coins of the
same denominations as those now already current, but of less
intrinsic value, by reason of containing a less weight of the
precious metals, and thereby enable debtors to discharge their
debts by payment of coins of less real value. This doctrine is
put forth as in some way a justification of the legislation
authorizing the tender of nominal money in place of real money
in payment of debts. Undoubtedly Congress has power to
alter the value of coins issued, either by increasing or diminishing the alloy they contain; so it may alter, at its pleasure, their
denominations; it may hereafter call a dollar an eagle, and it
may call an eagle a dollar. But if it be intended to assert that
Congress can make the coins changed the equivalent of those
having a greater value in their previous condition, and compel
parties contracting for the latter to receive coins with diminished
value, I must be permitted to deny any such authority. Any
such declaration on its part would be not only utterly inoperative in fact but a shameful disregard of its constitutional duty.
As I said on a former occasion: "The power to coin money,
as declared by this court, is a great trust devolved upon Congress, carrying with it the duty of creating and maintaining a
uniform standard of value throughout the Union, and it would
be a manifest abuse of this trust to give to the coins issued
by its authority any other than their real value. By debasing
the coins, when once the standard is fixed, is meant giving to
the coins, by their form and impress, a certificate of their having
a relation to that standard different from that which, in truth,
vor. cx-80

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

they possess; in other words, giving to the coins a false certificate of their value. Arbitrary and profligate governments
have often resorted to this miserable scheme of robbery, which
Mill designates as a shallow and impudent artifice, the I least
covert of all modes of knavery, which consists in calling a
shilling a pound, that a debt of one hundred pounds may be
cancelled by the payment of one hundred shillings.' 1 No such
debasement has ever been attempted in this country, and none
ever will be so long as any sentiment of honor influences the
governing power of the nation. The changes from time to
time in the quantity of alloy in the different coins has been
made to preserve the proper relative value between gold and
silver, or to prevent exportation, and not with a view of debasing them. Whatever power may be vested in the government
of the United States, it has none to perpetrate such monstrous
iniquity. One of the great purposes of its creation, as expressed
in the preamble of the Constitution, was the establishment of
justice, and not a line nor a word is found in that instrument
which sanctions any intentional wrong to the citizen, either in
war or in peace.
But beyond and abgve all the objections which I have stated
to the decision recognizing a power in Congress to impart the
legal tender quality to the notes of the government, is my objection to the rule of construction adopted by the court to
reach its conclusions, a rule which fully carried out would
change the whole nature of our Constitution and break down
the barriers which separate a government of limited from one
of unlimited powers. When the Constitution came before the
conventions of the several States for adoption, apprehension
existed that other powers than those designated might be
claimed; and it led to the first ten amendments. When these
were presented to the States they were preceded by a preamble
stating that the conventions of a number of the States had at
the time of adopting the Constitution expressed a desire, "in
order to prevent misconception or abuse of its powers, that
further declaratory and restrictive clauses should be added."
One of them is found in the Tenth Amendment, which declares

LEGAL TENDER CASE.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

that "the powers not delegated to the United States by the
Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to
the States respectively, or to the people.". The framers of the
Constitution, as I have said, were profoundly impressed with
the evils which had resulted from the vicious legislation of the
States making notes a legal tender, and they determined that
such a power should not exist any longer. They therefore prohibited the States from exercising it, and they refused to grant
it to the new government which they created. Of what purpose is it then to refer to the exercise of the power by the
absolute or the limited governments of Europe, or by the States
previous to our Constitution. Congress can exercise no power
by virtue of any supposed inherent sovereignty in the general
government. Indeed, it may be doubted whether the power
can be correctly said to appertain to sovereignty in any proper
sense as an attribute of an independent political community.
The power to commit violence, perpetrate injustice, take private property by force without compensation to the owner, and
compel the receipt of promises to pay in place of money, may
be exercised, as it often has been, by irresponsible authority,
but it cannot be considered as belonging to a government
founded upon law. But be that as it may, there is no such
thing as a power of inherent sovereignty in the government of
the 'United States. It is a government of delegated powers,
supreme within its prescribed sphere, but powerless outside of
it. In this country sovereignty resides in the people, and Congress can exercise no power which they have not, by their Constitution, entrusted to it; all else is withheld. It seems, however, to be supposed that, as the power was taken from the
States, it could not have been intended that it should disappear
entirely, and therefore it must in some way adhere to the general government, notwithstanding the Tenth Amendment and
the nature of the Constitution. The doctrine, that a power not
expressly forbidden may be exercised, would, as I have
observed, change the character of our government. If I have
read the Constitution aright, if there is any weight to be given
to the uniform teachings of our great jurists and of commen-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

tators previous to the late civil war, the true doctrine is the very
opposite of this. If the power is not in terms granted, and is
not necessary and proper for the exercise of a power which is
thus granted, it does not exist. And in determining what
measures may be adopted in executing the powers granted,
Chief Justice Marshall declares that they must be appropriate, plainly adapted to the end, not prohibited, and con&sitentwith the letter and &piit of the Constitution. Now,
all through that instrument we find limitations upon the
power, both of the general government and the State governments, so as to prevent oppression and injustice. No
legislation, therefore, tending to promote either can consist
with the letter and spirit of the Constitution. A law which
interferes with the contracts of others and compels one of the
parties to receive in satisfaction something different from that
stipulated, without reference to its actual value in the market,
necessarily works such injustice and wrong.
There is, it is true, no provision in the Constitution of the
United States forbidding in direct terms the passing of laws by
Congress impairing the obligation of contracts, and there are
many express powers conferred, such as the power to declare
war, levy duties, and regulate commerce, the exercise of which
affects more or less the value of contracts. Thus war necessarily suspends intercourse between citizens or subjects of belligerent nations, and the performance during its continuance of
previous contracts. The imposition of duties upon goods may
affect the prices of articles imported or manufactured, so as to
materially alter the value of previous contracts respecting them.
But these incidental consequences arising from the exercise of
such powers were contemplated in the grant of them. As
there can be no solid objection to legislation under them, no
just complaint can be made of such consequences. But far
different is the case when the impairment of the contract does
not follow incidentally, but is directly and in terms allowed and
enacted. Legislation operating directly upon private contracts,
changing their conditions, is forbidden to the States; and no
power to alter the stipulations of such contracts by direct legis-

LEGAL TENDER CASE.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

lation is conferred upon Congress. There are also many considerations, outside of the fact that there is no grant of the
power, which show that the framers of the Constitution never
intended that such power should be exercised. One of the
great objects of the Constitution, as already observed, was to
establish justice, and what was meant by that in its relations
to contracts, as said by the late chief justice in his opinion in
]-epburav. Cqswold, was not left to inference or conjecture.
And in support of this statement he refers to the fact that
when the Constitution was undergoing discussion in the Convention, the Congress of the Confederation was engaged in
framing the ordinance for the government of the Northwest
Territory, in which certain articles of compact were established
between the people of the original States and the people of the
Territory "for the purposes," as expressed in the instrument,
"of extending the fundamental principles of civil and religious
liberty, whereon these republics [the States united under the
confederation], their laws and constitutions, are erected." That
Congress was also alive to the evils which the loose legislation
of the States had created by interfering with the obligation of
private contracts and making notes a legal tender for debts;
and the ordinance declared that in the just preservation of
rights and property no law "ought ever to be made, or have
force in the said Territory, that shall in any manner whatever
interfere with or affect private contracts, or engagements, bona
fde and without fraud, previously formed." This principle,
said the chief justice, found more condensed expression in the
prohibition upon the States against impairing the obligation of
confracts, which has always been recognized "as an efficient
safeguard against injustice ;" and the court was then of opinion
that "it is clear that those who framed and those who adopted
the Constitution intended that the spirit of this prohibition
should pervade the entire body of legislation, and that the
justice which the Constitution was ordained to establish was
not thought by them to be compatible with legislation of an
opposite tendency." Soon after the Constitution was adopted
the case of Cader v. Bull came before this court, and it was

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

there said that there were acts which the federal and State
legislatures could not do without exceeding their authority;
and among them was mentioned a law which punished a citizen
for an innocent act, and a law which destroyed or impaired the
lawful private contracts of citizens. "It is against all reason
and justice," it was added, "for a people to entrust a legislature
with such powers, and, therefore, it cannot be presumed that
they have done it." 3 Dallas, 388. And Mr. Madison in one
of the articles in the Federalist, declared that laws impairing
the obligation of contracts were contrary to the first principles
of the social compact, and to every principle of sound legislation.
Yet this court holds that a measure directly operating upon
and necessarily impairing private contracts, may be adopted in
the execution of powers specifically granted for other purposes,
because it is not in terms prohibited, and that it is consistent
with the letter and spirit of the Constitution.
From the decision of the court I see only evil likely to follow.
There have been times within the memory of all of us when the
legal tender notes of the United States were not exchangeable
for more than one-half of their nominal value. The possibility
of such depreciation will always attend paper money. This inborn infirmity no mere legislative declaration can cure. If Congress has the power to make the notes a legal tender and to
pass as money or its equivalent, why should not a sufficient
amount be issued to pay the bonds of the United States as they
mature? Why pay interest on the millions of dollars of bonds
now due, when Congress can in one day make the money to pay
the principal? And why should there be any restraint upon
unlimited appropriations by the government for all imaginary
schemes of public improvement, if the printing press can furnish
the money that is needed for them?

