OCTOBER TERM, 1883
Opinion of the Court.

WEITESIDE
APPEAL

. IASELTON & Others.

FROM THE CROUMr COeRT OF THE UNITED STATES FOP
THE FASTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
Argued January 14tb, 15th, 168.-Decided January 28th, 154

Apeal-EstWopel--Evidence-Jarisdictia-Lis.Pend

-Prad es.

1. The relief sought for in equity was partition of real estate in defendant's

possession with denial of plaintiff's title, accounting, and recovery of rents
in arrear. The record did not show affirmatively that the amount in controversy exceeded $5,000.

On a motion to dismiss the appeal for want of

jurisdiction, the court received affidavits as to the value of the property,
and finding it established at over $5,000, retained jurisiction of the

cause.
2. B and E were tenants, under a lease from W, of an undivided interest in a
mine. After the expiration of the lease they remained in possession of the
property recognizing the superior title to the whole mine of H, owner
of another undivided interest therein, and denying the title of W.

Wthen

filed in the State court of Tennessee a bill in equity, charging that B, E,
and H had confederated together to defraud W of the property and of
the rents and profits, and praying for affirmance of his title and other
affirmative relief. The defendants appeared and answered, and a decree
was entered recognizing and enforcing the rights of W. Pending the
litigation a corporation, of which H was president, organized under the
laws of another State, was put in possession of the whole mine and property. In a suit in equity by W against B, E, H, and the corporation to
obtain partition, and an accounting, and such rents in arrear as might be
found due : Held, That the-decree in the former suit was conclusive of
the rights of W, as against B, E, H, and the corporation.

Xr. W. H. D e1tt for appellant.
_fr. Gewrge _oarois for appellees.
MR. JusrwE VMna, delivered the opinion of the court.
The suit in this case was brought originally in the Chancery
Court of M[arion County, Tennessee, by V. A. Gaskill and his
wife, who is now the appellant, H. L. Whiteside.
The defendants were J. C. Haselton, The Bartow Iron Company, of which he was president, James P. Boyce, in his own
right and also as executor of Ker Boyce, deceased.
The principal allegation of the bill with which we have to

WBITESIDE v. HASELTON.
Opinion of the Court.

deal is, that plaintiffs, in right of the wife, were the owners of
one undivided half of certain mines, known as the Vulcan Coal
Mines; that the half interest of plaintiffs was leased for five
years to Badge and Eaton, against whom they had recovered
judgments for rent unpaid, and that J. C. Haselton and The
Bartow Iron Company had obtained possession of said mine
and were operating the same, and refused to recognize plaintiffs' title to the land or interest in the mine, and were confederating with Badge and Eaton to defraud plaintiffs of their
lien on the tools, implements, and machinery used in mining,
and to keep them out of possession of the property. These
mines are situated on section three (3), township two (2), range
six (6), and plaintiffs, conceding the title of Haselton, or of The
Bartow Iron Company, under him, to the other undivided half
of this land, pray for a partition, for an account of the rents,
and for general relief, and for a temporary injunction, appointment of a receiver, &c.
The case was removed, on the petition of Haselton and The
Bartow Iron Company, into the Circuit Court of the United:
States for the Eastern District of Tennessee, where, after a
hearing on the merits, the bill of the plaintiffs was dismissed.
A motion was made in this court to dismiss the appeal from
that decree on the ground that the amount in controversy does!
not exceed $5,000.
There being no distinct statement anywhere in the record o
the value -of the property in controversy, the parties were permitted to file affidavits here on that subject. Appellant has
accordingly produced the affidavit of R. L. Watkins, who
swears he knows the property well, and that the undivided
half interest in it claimed by appellant is worth over $5,000,
and wac so when the suit was brought, aside from the $2,500
for rents claimed by her. The examination of the record
makes this very probable, and, as there is no denial on oath of
this affidavit, we think the amount in controversy is sufficiently
proved to be over $5,000..
The Bartow Iron Company answers the bill-the answer
being sworn to by Haselton as its president-and asserts its
ownership of the mine, and of the entire quarter section in,

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

which it is found, by purchase from Haselton; and it denies
that plaintiffs have any interest whatever in the same.
Haselton also answers and alleges that he was the owner of
the property when he sold and conveyed the same to The Bartow Company, and that plaintiffs have no interest in it. He
gives a history of the title and previous litigation about it,
which, in the view we take of the case, is unimportant.
Upon this issue mainly the case was heard. Much evidence
was introduced and is found in the record in the way of depositions deeds, other suits, decrees, &c.
The common source of title was Erasmus Alley, who, in
1859, conveyed the land in dispute, with many other tracts, to
J. Holmes Agnew and James C. Haselton. It embraced a
thousand acres and many distinct tracts. In the registration of
the deed the southeast quarter of section 3 was omitted, as it is
supposed, by accident. It is under this deed that appellant
has for years claimed to own the undivided half of the land,
and was in possession when the lease to Badge and Eaton was
made. Other interests, however, intervened, and the question
of innocent purchasers, without notice, embarrasses the case in
some of its aspects.
But on the trial there was introduced, by agreement of the
parties, the record of a suit about this same land and the same
'title in the State Chancery Court of Hamilton County, or so
much of that record as is necessary to this case.
That suit was brought by Gaskill and wife, December 5th,
1874, against Badge, Eaton, Haselton, and others, prior to the
conveyance by Haselton to The Bartow Iron Company, and
as there was a decree in favor of plaintiffs it is relied on as
conclusive of their rights in this suit against Haselton and The
Bartow Company.
We are unable to see why it should not be so.
It was, like the present suit, a bill in chancery to enforce the
lien of the plaintiffs for rents under the lease of plaintiffs to
Badge and Eaton.
Haselton was made a defendant there, as he is here, on the
ground that he had induced Badge and Eaton to recognize his
claim and was confederating with them to defraud plaintiffs

WHITESIDE v. HASELTON.
Opinion of the Court.

out of their rents. Plaintiffs in that suit asserted title to an
undivided half of the mine and of the quarter section on which

it is located.
Haselton in his answer denied any interest in plaintiffs in the
land. He gave an exhibit of the title, whereby he asserted it to
be in himself, or nearly all of it, and admitted that he held
Badge and Eaton accountable to himself for the rents of the

property.
After full hearing, and on the exhibits as to title and other
evidence, the court rendered a decree in favor of plaintiffs.
This decree was rendered on the 15th'day of December, 1876.
It says:
"This cause came on to be heard on the original, amended, and
supplemental bills, exhibits thereto attached, and the answers and
exhibits thereto attached, and the proofs and other exhibits in the
cause, and from all which it appears to the court, and the court
adjudges and decrees, that plaintiffs are entitled to the relief
prayed in their bill; that the title to the lands embraced by the
terms of the lease, Exhibit A to complainant's original bill and
described in the deed from E. Alley to H. L. Whiteside, dated
26th April, 1870 (Ex. A), is and was at that date in complainant
Whiteside and superior to the title of the defendants, and that,
she was on that day
.
and premises."

.

.

.

in actual possession of said land

"And it further appearing to the court
that the said leaie of June 1st, 1870, has expired during the proceedings of this litigation, and that the defendants Badge and
Eaton decline and refuse to demand or accept a renewal lease as
provided for in said Ex. (A), and it further appearing pending
this litigation, the said defendants Badge and Eaton have combined and confederated with defendant J. C. Haselton to injure
and defraud complainants, and to carry into effect such object
delivered over into custody and possession of J.C. Haselton the
said leasehold premises, who now, in violation of the rights of
complainant, is holding and claiming possession of the same ilegally and wrongfully: The.chancellor, therefore, upon this branch'
of the case, and in view of the whole case, declares that the said
complainants recover from the defendants the possession of all
said leasehold premises, including said Vulcan mines and the
.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.
prdperty thereon mentioned in said IEx.A,' to be returned to
complainant H. L. Whiteside at the termination of said lease, to
wit, all the buildings, houses, tramways, tracks, entries, and approaches to said mines and upon said lands, the same having,
with the mines and leasehold premises, been agreed and covenanted by defendants Badge and Eaton to be delivered up in
good condition to complainant H. L. Whiteside at the expiration
of said lease, and a writ of possession will issue, upon demand
of complainants, by the clerk and master of this court, to put
complainants in the peaceable and quiet, undisturbed possession
of the' same, and as to all said property the injunction in this
cause is made absolute."
Here was an issue raised between Mrs. Whiteside and Haselton as to the title to this property-the same issue and the
same title now in question. It was necessary in that case that
it should: be decided, for if the plaintiff had no title to the land
she had no right to recover, and the decree in her favor is that
she had such title; that it was paramount or superior to that
of defendants, including Haselton; and as by fraudulent confederacy of the lessees with Haselton the latter had possession,
a decree for its restoration to plaintiffs was Inade.
That such a decree is, if the court had jurisdiction to render
it, which cannot be questioned, conclusive upon the parties
before the court is not doubted. Until reversed, set aside,
or annulled by some appropriate judicial proceeding, it concludes Haselton and his privies.
To this it is objected that the suit was between Badge and
Eaton and Mrs. Whiteside, as landlord and tenant, and could
not bind Haselton.
The answer is, that Haselton had induced Badge and Eaton
to acknowledge his title and deny plaintiff's, and when sued
and brought into court he accepted the issue, denied plaintiff's
title and asserted his own, and his right to the allegiance of the
tenants. On that issue of title the decree was clear and full
against him, and he must abide by it.
It is argued that it does not bind The Bartow Iron Company,
who were innocent purchasers from Haselton.

ILLINOIS CENTRAL R.R CO. v. TURRILL

301

Syllabus

But they bought pendente lite, and by the well-known rule
on that subject, are bound by this decree. The suit was commenced December 5th, 1874, Haselton's answer filed April 14th,
1875, and the deed, though without date, from Haselton to the
company is acknowledged September 8th, 1875.
It is apparent also that during all the time Haselton was president of The Bartow Iron Company. The fact that the corporation was organized under the laws of another State does
not, under these circumstances, relieve it from the rule which
governs purchasers of property pending litigation about the
title.
We are of opinion that, as this case is presented to us, the
decree of the Chancery Court of Hamilton County, Tennessee,
is conclusive of the rights of all the parties to this suit.
The decree of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the case iemanded to that courtforfurtherproceedingsin conformity

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY v. TU-R:
RILL, Administratrix.
ICHIGAN SOUTHERN AND NORTHERN INDIANA
RAILROAD COA'fPANY . Same.
APPEA

FROM THE CIRCUIT CORT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS."
Argued January 11th, 14th, 1884.-Decided January 28th, 1884.

Aba emeni--Interest--Juclgment--Patent.
1. In 1876 a decree was made affirming the principles of a decree below in a
suit in equity for relief against infringement of a patent, but sending

the case back to ascertain and correct the amount of the damages,
on principles laid down by the court.

The master reported in 1879.

Hed, That under the circumstances it was equitable to allow interest on
the amount from the date of the report.
2. A suit in equity seeking relief against an infringement of a patent does not

abate by the death of the plaintiff, but may be prosecuted to final judgment by his legal representative.

