OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

the trustees in the erection of the fire-proof office and other
improvements, and in building and protecting the levees. We
are of opinion that these and like expenditures are not current
expenses of the trust, within the meaning of the contract of
October Ath, 1861. By that contract even the payment of
taxes is not classed as among current expenses. If the expenditures referred to can be called expenses at all, they are
extraordinary expenses. In our view they are investments
of the capital of the Cairo City property, as much so as the
purchase of land or the construction of water works, gas works,
or a system of sewerage. It could scarcely have been the purpose of Davis, when he exacted from the plaintiffs in error the
contract of October 4th, 1861, in consideration of his yielding
possession of the trust property, on which he had a lien, and
from which he could have enforced immediate satisfaction of
his debt, to postpone its payment for an indefinite period, and
until the large sums which the plaintiffs in error expended in
substantial and permanent improvements on the trust property
had been paid. We think the correct interpretation of the
'phrase "current expenses" was that given it by the Circuit
'Court, namely, ordinary expenses. The contract of the plaintiffs in error being thus construed, their liability to the defendant in error upon the facts found is clear. We are of opinion
,thatthere is no error in the record. The judgment of the Circuit
Court is, therefore,

UNITED STATES v. BEHAlf.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIWS.
Submitted December 18th, 183.-Decided February 4th. 1834.

ContramtDasme-EsoeZA
'When one party enters upon the performance of a contract, and incurs expense
therein, and being willing to perform, is, without fault of his own, prevented by the other party from performing, his loss will consist of two dis.
tinct items of damage: 1st, his outlay and expenses, less the value of ma-

UNITED STATES v. BEHAN.
Opinion of the Court.
terials on hand; 2d, the profits he might have realized by performance;
which profits are related to the outlays and include them and something
more. The first item he may recover in all cases, unless the other party can
show the contrary; and the failure to prove profits will not prevent him
from recovering it. The second he may recover when the profits are the
direct fruit of the contract, and not too remote or speculative.
In an action for breach of a contract by wrongfully putting an end to it, the
party committing the wrong is estopped from denying that the other party
has been damaged to the extent of his actual loss and outlay fairly in.
curred.
If, in a suit in the Court of Claims for breach of contract by the United States
by preventing the petitioner from performing his contract, the petition
prays judgment for damages arising from the loss of profits, and also for
outlay and expenses, the petitioner may recover for such part of the outlay
and expenses as he may prove, although he may fail to establish that there
would have been any profits.
If a party injured by the stoppage of a contract elects to rescind the contract,
he cannot recover either for outlay or for loss of profits; but only for the
value of services actually performed, as upon a quantum meruit.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.Mr. Solicitor-General(Yr. John S. Blair was with him) for

appellant.
21r. J. Ti. Douglaw8 for appellee.
M. JusTIn BRAD=in delivered the opinion of the court.
Behan, the appellee and claimant, filed a petition in the court
below, setting forth that on the 26th of December, 1879, one
John Roy entered into a contract with 0. W. Howell, major of
engineers of the United States army, to make certain improvements in the harbor of New Orleans (describing the same), and
that the claimant and two other persons named became bondsmen for the faithful performance of the work; that on February 10th, 1881, the contract with Roy was annulled by the
engineer office, and the bondsmen were notified that they had
a right to continue the work under the contract if they desired
to do so, and that the claimant complied with this suggestion
and undertook the work; that he went to great expense in pro.;
viding the requisite machinery, materials, and labor for fufill-'
ing the contract, but that in September, 1881, it being found,
by the report of a board of engineers, that the plan of improve.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

ment was a failure, without any fault of the claimant, the work
was ordered to cease; that thereupon the claimant stopped all
operations, and disposed of the machinery and materials on
hand upon the best terms possible, and sent to the War Department an account of his outlay and expenses, and the value of his
own time, claiming as due to him, after all just credits and offsets, the sum of $36,347.94, for which sum he prayed judgment.
The claimant afterwards filed an amended petition, in which
the various transactions, and his operations under the contract,
were set forth in greater detail, showing amongst other things,
that the amount of his expenses for machinery and tools, for
materials, and for labor and operations carried on, after deducting the proceeds realized from the sale of the plant remaining
when the work was suspended, amounted to the sum of
$33,192.90. The petition further alleged that the claimant
could have completed the work contemplated by the contract
by a further expense of $10,000, and that the amount which
would then have been due therefor would have been $52,000,
leaving a profit to him of $8,807.10.
The petition concluded as follows:
"Your petitioner therefore respectfully shows that his reasonable and necessary expenditures upon the work above described
amounted to $33,192.90, which sum represents the losses actually
sustained by petitiondr by reason of the defendants' breach of the
,contract. And petitioner further sets forth that the reasonable
and legitimate profits which he might have obtained but for the
said breach of contract may be properly computed at $8,807.10, assuming $52,000 as the amount to be paid for the completed work.
Amd petitioner further shows that he has not received one dollar
from the defendants on account of said work, but that his claim
and accompanying accounts, presented to the engineer department,
have been transmitted to this court by the Secretary of War.
"Your petitioner therefore alleges that he is entitled to receive
from the United States the sum of forty-two thousand dollars
($42,000) over and above all just credits and offsets. Wherefore
he prays judgment for that amount."
the Court of Claims found the material facts to be substan-

UNITED STATES v. BEHAN.
Opinion of the Court.

tially as stated in the petition. The contract of Roy is set
forth in full in the findings, from which it appears that the
contracting party was required to furnish and lay down an artificial covering of cane-mats over the sloping portion of the riverbed of the Mississippi in front of the third district of New
Orleans, to extend outward to a depth in the river not exceeding 100 feet, and to be paid therefor at the rate of 65 cents per
square yard. The court finds that Roy prosecuted the work
under the contract during the year 1880, but his progress not
being satisfactory to the engineer officers, the contract was
formally annulled, and the bondsmen notified as stated in the
petition. In March, 1881, Behan, the claimant, gave notice to
Major Howell that he would undertake the work, and at his
request the major gave him a description of the work to be
done, estimated as not exceeding 11,000 or 80,000 square yards,
which, at the contract price, would amount to from $50,000 to
$52,000. The court further finds as follows:
"The contract was of such a character as to require extensive
preparations and a large initial expenditure. The claimant made
the necessary preparations for carrying on the work to completion
and in procuring boats, tools, materials, and apparatus for its
prosecution. He engaged actively in carrying out the contract on
his part, incurred large expenditure for labor and materials, and
had for some time proceeded with the work when the undertaking
was abandoned by the defendants and the work stopped without
fault of the claimant, as set forth in the following letters."
Then follows a copy of correspondence between the officers
and the department of engineers, showing that a board of
engineer officers was appointed to examine and report upon the
plan of improvement under which the work of the claimant was
being carried on, and that this board, on the 28d of Septemberi
1881, reported their unanimous opinion that the object sought
to be accomplished by the improvement had not been attained,
and that under the then. existing plan of operations, it could
not be attained. On the 2 th of September, 1881, the claimant
received notice to discontinue the work, which he did at once,
and gave Major Howell notice to that effect, and called his

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

attention to the exposed situation of the machinery, materials,
and other property on hand, and requested instructions respecting the same. No instructions appear to have been given. The
court then finds as follows :
"1The claimant thereupon closed up his work and sold the materials which he had on hand. Nothing has been paid to him for
work, materials, or losses.
"The actual and reasonable expenditures by the claimant in the
prosecution of his work, together with his unavoidable losses on
the materials on hand at the time of the stoppage by the defendants, were equal to the full amount claimed therefor in his petition,
.$33,192.20.

"It does not appear from the evidence thereon on the one side
and the other whether or niot the claimant would have made any
actual profit over and above expenditures, or would have incurred
actual loss had he continued the work to the end and been paid

the full contract price therefor.
" CONCLUSION

OF LAW.

"Upon the foregoing findings of facts the court decides as a

conclusion of law that the claimant is entitled to recover the sum
Of $33,192.20."

The government has appealed from this decree and coinPlains of the rule of damages adopted by the court below.
Counsel contend that, by making a claim for profits, the
claimant asserts the existence of the contract as opposed to its
rescission; and that in such case, the rule of damages, as
settled in iSjw' Case, 8 Wall. 77, is ".the difference between
the. cost of doing the work and what claimants were to
receive for it, making reasonable reduction for the less time engaged, and for release from the care, trouble, risk, and responsibility attending a full execution of the contract." And when
such a claim is made, they contend that the burden of proof is

on the claimant to show what the profits would have been; and
as the Court of Claims expressly finds that it does not appear
from the evidence whether or not the claimant would have
made any profits, or would have incurred loss, therefore the

UNITED STATES v. BEHA.
Opinion of the Court.
claimant was not entitled to judgment for any amount whatever.
The manner in which this subject was viewed by the Court
of Claims is shown by the following extract from its opinion:
"Whatever rule may be adopted in calculating the damages to
a contractor when, without his fault, the other party, during its
progress, puts an end to the contract before completion, the
object is to indemnify him for his losses sustained and his gains
prevented by the action of the party in fault, viewing these
elements with relation to each other. The profits and losses must
be determined according to the circumstances of the case and the
subject-matter of the contract. The reasonable expenditures
already incurred, the unavoidable losses incident to stoppage, the
progress attained, the.unfinished part, and the probable cost of its
completion, the whole contract price, and the estimated pecuniary
result, favorable or unfavorable to him, had he -been permitted or
required to go on and complete his contract, may be taken into.
consideration. Siche
Case, 1 C. CIs. R. 214 ; Speed s Case, 2 C.
CIs. R. 429 ; afirmed on appeal, 8 Wall. 7, and 7 C. CIs. R. 93 ;
TFilder's Case, 5 C.. Cls. R. 468 ; Bulkley's Case, 7 C. Cls. R.
543 ; 19 Wall. 37 ; and 9 C. Cls. R. 81 ; .Parish's Case, 100 U. S.i
500 ; .Reld's Case, 16 C. Cls. R. 434 ; Morore & .Yrons Case, 17
C. CIs. R. 17; Power's Case, 18 C. Cls. I. 493; .Xasterson v.
.Mayor, &c., of Brodklyn, 7 Hill, 61.
"The amount of the claimant's unavoidable expenditures and
losses already incurred are set forth in the findings. But we can!
give him nothing on account of prospective profits, because none
have been proved. So, for the same reason, we can deduct
nothing from his expenditures on account of prospective losses
which he might -have ificurred had he not been relieved from completing his contract. This leaves his expenditures as the only
damages proved to have resulted to him from the defendants'
breach of contract, and they are, therefore, the proper measure 4
damages under all the circumstances of the case."

We think that these views, as applied to the case in hand,
are substantially correct. The claimant has not received a.
dollar, either for what he did, or for what he expended, except
the proceeds of the property which remained on his hands when

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

the performance of the contract was stopped. Unless there is
some artificial rule of law which has taken the place of natural
justice in relation to the measure of damages, it would seem to
be quite clear that the claimant ought at least to be made
whole for his losses and expenditures. So far as appears, they
were incurred in the fair endeavor to perform the contract
which he assumed. If they were foolishly or unreasonably
incurred, the government should have proven this fact. It will
not be presumed. The court finds that his expenditures were
reasonable. The claimant might also have recovered the profits
of the contract if he had proven that any direct, as distinguished
from speculative, profits would have been realized. But this he
failed to do; and the court below very properly restricted its
award of damages to his actual expenditures and losses.
The iprima fac-e measure of damages for the breach of a
contract is the amount of the loss which the injured party has
sustained thereby. If the breach consists in preventing the
.performance of the contract, without the fault of the other
'party, who is willing to pefform it, the loss of the latter will
consist of two distinct items or grounds of damage, namely:
first, what he has already expended towards performance (less
the value of materials on hand); secondly, the profits that he
would realize by performing, the whole contract. The second
item, prfts, cannot always be recovered. They may be too
remote and speculative in their character, and therefore inca'pable of that clear and direct proof which the law requires.
But when, in the language of Chief Justice Nelson, in the case
of .faterson v. .fayor of Brooldyn, I Hill, 69, they are "the
direct and immediate fruits of the contract," they are free from
this objection; they are then "part and parcel of the contract
itself, entering into and constituting a portion of its very elements ; something stipulated for, the right to the enjoyment of
which is just as clear and plain as to the fulfilment of any other
stipulation." Still, in order to furnish a ground of recovery in
damages, they must be proved. If not proved, or if they are
of such a remote and speculative character that they cannot be
legally proved, the party is confined to his loss of actual outlay
and expense. This loss, however, he is clearly entitled to re-

UNITED STATES v. BEHAN.
Opinion of the Court.

cover in all cases, unless the other party, who has voluntarily
stopped the performance of the contract, can show the contrary.
The rule as stated in Speed's case is only one aspect of the
general rule. It is the rule as applicable to a particular case.
As before stated, the primary measure of damages is the
amount of the party's loss; and this loss, as we have seen, may
consist of two heads or classes of damage-actual outlay and
anticipated profits. But failure to prove profits will not prevent the party from recovering his losses for actual outlay and
expenditure. If he goes also for profits, then the rule applies
as laid down in Speed's case, and his profSM will be measured
by "the difference between the cost of doing the work and
what he was to receive for it," &c. The claimant was not
bound to go for profits, even though he counted for them in
his petition. He might stop upon a showing of losses. The
.two heads of damage are distinct, though closely related
When profits are sought a recovery for outlay is included and
something more. That something more is the profits. If the
outlay equals or exceeds the amount to be received, of course
there can be no profits.
When a party injured by the stoppage of a contract elects to
rescind it, then, it is true, he cannot recover any damages for a
breach of the contract, either for outlay or for loss of profits;
he recovers the value of his services actually performed as upom
, quantum neruit. There is then no, question of losses or
profits., But when he elects to go for damages for the breach
of the contract, the first and most obvious damage to be-shown
is, the amount which he has been induced to expend on the faith
of the contract, including a fair allowance for his own time and
services. If he chooses to go further, and claims for the loss
of anticipated profits, he may do so, subject to the rules of law
as to the character of profits which may be thus claimed. It
does not lie, however, in the mouth of the party, who has
voluntarily and wrongfully put an end to the contract, to say
that the party injured has not been damaged at least to the
amount of what he has been induced fairly and in good faith,
to lay out and expend (including his own services), after mak-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

ing allowance for the value of materials on hand; at least
it does not lie in the mouth of the party in fault to say this,
unless he can show that the expenses of the party injured have
been extravagant, and unnecessary for the purpose of carrying
out the contract.
It is unnecessary to review the authorities on this subject.
Some of them are referred to in the extract made from the
opinion of the court below; others may be found referred to in
Sedgwick on the Measure of Damages, in Smith's Leading
Cases, vol. 2, p. 36, &c. (notes to Cutter v. Powell); Addison
on Contracts, §§ 881, 897. The cases usually referred to, and
which, with many others, have been carefully examined, are
PlanA4 v. Colburn, 5 C. & P. 58; S. G. 8 Bing. 14; -Masterson v. M7fayor, &c.,
of Brooklyn, 7 Hill (. Y.), 61 ; Goodman v.
Pocock, 15 A. & E. 576; Hadley v. Baxendale, 9 Excheq. 3-41;
Fleteerv. Tayleur, 17 C. B. 21; Smeed v. Ford,1 El. & EL
602; Inchbald v. TWestern, &c., Coffee Company, 17 C. B. N. S.
733; Griffen v. Colver, 16 N. Y. 489; and the case of United
tates v. 8.peed, before referred to.
It is to be observed that when it is said in some of the books,
that where one party puts an end to the contract, the other
party cannot sue on the contract, but must sue for the work
.actually done under it, as upon a quantum meruit, this only
means that he cannot sue the party in fault upon the stipulations contained in the contract, for he himself has been pre.vented from performing his own part of the contract upon
.which the stipulations depend. But surely, the wilful and
wrongful putting an end to a contract, and preventing the
other party from carrying it out, is itself a breach of the contract for which an action will lie for the recovery of all damage
which the injured party has sustained. The distinction between
those claims under a contract which result from a performance
of it on the part of the claimant, and those claims under it
.which result from being prevented by the other party from
performing it, has not always been attended to. The party
who voluntarily and wrongfully puts an end to a contract
and prevents the other party from performing it, is estopped from denying that the injured party has not been

SPRING VALLEY WATER VORKS v. SCHOTTLER. 847
Syllabus.

damaged to the extent of his actual loss and outlay fairly incurred.
The particular form of the petition in this case ought not to
preclude the claimant from not recovering what was fairly
shown by the evidence to be the damage sustained by him.
Though it is true that he does pray judgment for damages axising from loss of profits, yet he also prays judgment for the
amount of his outlay and expenses less the amount realized
from the sale of materials on hand. The claim for profits, if
not sustained by proof, ought not to preclude a recovery of the
claim for losses sustained by outlay and expenses. In a proceeding like the present, in which the claimant sets forth, by
way of petition, a plain statement of the facts without technical
formality, and prays relief either in a general manner, or in an
alternative or cumulative form, the court ought not to hold the
claimant to strict technical rules of pleading, but should give
to his statement a liberal interpretation, and afford him such
relief as he may show himself substantially entitled to if within
the fair scope of the claim as exhibited by the facts set forth in
the petition.
We think that the judgment of the Court of Claims was
right, and it

18 ajYrm.ed.
SPRING VALLEY WATER WORKS v. SCHOTTLER
& Others, Supervisors.
IN

ERROR TO THE SUPraMM COUR

OF CALIFORNIA.

Argued November 20th, 21st, 1883.-Decided February4th, 1884.

ConatitutionaLaw--Cororains.
Lows requiring gas companies, water companies and other corporations of like
character to*supply their customers at prices fixed by the municipal au.
thorities of the locality, are *thin the scope of legislative power unless
prohibited by constitutional limitation or valid contract obligation.
The Constitution of a State provided that corporations might be 16rmed under
.general laws, and should not be created by special act, except for munia-

