OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

RA BRO & Another v. CASEY, Receiver.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Submitted January 3d, 1884.-Decided January 21st, 1684.

Bil of Excleange-Damages-otest.
When a bank, the owner and holder of a bill of exchange on a foreign country, remits it for collection to its correspondent abroad, and the bill is not
paid at maturity, and is protested, the correspondent is not entitled to
damages on the protest, aq against the owner, even though the owner may
have failed before maturity of the bill, being largely indebted to the correspondent.

Xr. Thwmas I. Bayne for the plaintiffs in error.
.3r. J. D. _ouse and .fr. Wi
error.
Mm_.CmF JusTicE WAITE

=r Grant for defendant in

delivered the opinion of the court.

The controlling facts in this case are as follows: C. J. Hambro & Son, a banking firm in London, England, were the correspondents of the New Orleans National Banking Association, a national bank in New Orleans. The bank kept a running account with the firm, drawing upon them from time to
;time as occasion required, and remitting bills to cover its
drafts. In the course of its business the bank became the
owner of certain bills drawn by a New Orleans firm on their
correspondents in France, amounting in the aggregate to 440,000 francs, or $93,121 in United States currency. These bills
were indorsed by the bank and remitted to Hambro & Son
for collection and credit, but before they matured the bank
and the drawers and drawees all failed. The failure of the
bank occurred on the 4th of October, 1873, and, on a statement of accounts a few days after, the bank was found in debt
to Hambro & Son for the sum of $89,798.30. The bills which
had been remitted were protested at maturity at an expense of
$1,356, which was paid by flambro & Son. This item was
not included in the balance shown by the account stated.

AURRECOECEEA v. BANGS.
Syllabus.

Under the laws of Louisiana the damages upon protest of foreign bills of exchange is ten per cent. on the principal sum
specified in the bills. Suit was brought against the receiver of
the bank to recover the charges for protest and the ten per
cent. damages. Judgment was given against the receiver for
the expenses of protest, but in his favor on the claim for damages. This writ of error was sued out by Hambro & Son to
reverse that judgment so far as it was in favor of the receiver.
In our opinion the judgment was clearly right. The protested bills are the property of the bank, subject in the hands
of Ilambro & Son to their lien as bankers for the security
of the balance due them on general account. All moneys col
lected by Eambro & Son on the bills, whether it be for principal, interest, or damages, must be passed as soon as collected
to the credit of the bank :ambro & Son are the holders of
the bills, but in no legal sense the owners, though it may be
their lien is for more than can be collected from the drawers or
drawees. Clearly the law does not require the bank to pay
the damages, when the payment, if made, must be passed to
its own credit on the books of its collecting agents. That
would be the operative effect of such a judgment as is now
asked for.
Judgment affrmed.

AURRECOECOEA v. BANGS.
IN

,RROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF CAIFORNIA.
Submitted January 4th, 1884.-Decided January Mst, 1884.

P'racice.
When counsel stipulate to submit a case, fixing a time for fling of argument by the plaintiff, and a time subsequently for filing the defendant's
argument, and a time still later for plaintiffs reply, and the plaintiff failing to file an argument, the defendant files one within the time allowed to
him and the plaintiff files no reply, the court will take the case as submitted under the rule.
Stipulations between counsel for submitting suits, when filed, cannot be withdrawn without consent of both parties. .uller v. Dowe, 94 U. S. 277, approved and followed.

