OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

ALEXANDER v. BRYAN.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ALA"A2VtA.
Argued January 25th, 184.-Decided March 3d, M884

Executor and Administrator-Limitatons-Pleading-urey.
In Alabama a plea which denies the execution by the defendant of an instrument in writing which is the foundation of the suit, must be verified by
affidavit ; and the want of such affidavit may be reached by a demurrer.
In Alabama, the plea of nil debet in an action of debt on a bond with condition, where breaches are assigned, is bad on demurrer.
In Alabama, by statute, an action against the surety of an executor, for any
misfeasance or malfeasance of his principal, must be brought within six
years after the cause of action has accrued, and not afterwards, the time to
be computed from the act done or omitted by the principal, which fixes the
liability of the surety ; and, until there is a judicial ascertainment of the
default of the principal, the liability of the surety is not fixed.
Such judicial ascertainment must be something more than an auditing of accounts, or an ascertainment or judgment that a distributee's share is so
much, or that the distributee is entitled to so much. There must be a decree ordering payment and on which process to collect can issue against the
principal.
A decree of a Probate Court, in Alabama, in 1864, finding that a distributee's
share was so much, expressed in money, and had been invested in Confedcrate bonds, and ordering the executor to pay the amount in such bonds,
was not a decree on which the executor could be sued to pay in anything
but the bonds, or one on which a surety on the bond of the executor could
be sued to pay in lawful money of the United States, and a failure of the
executor to comply with such decree did not fix the liability of the surety.
Where a complaint in a suit against such surety does not state any facts to
show the application of the limitation of such statute, a plea which does not
state such facts is bad on demurrer.

An action by a legatee under a will against a surety on the
executor's bond, to recover the amount of a legacy alleged to
have been wasted by the executor. Plea nil debet and the
statute of limitations.
2Thr. F ifallett Phillipsfor plaintiff in error.
.Xr. H. Pillau for defendant in error.

ALEXANDER v. BRYAN.
Opinion of the Court.

court.
On the 22d of November, 1858, John A. C. Horn, having been
appointed by the judge of the Probate Court of Marengo
County, Alabama, executor of the last will and testament of
John Horn, executed, with John D. Alexander and W. B. Lessuer, as sureties, a bond or writing obligatory, under seal, to
said judge, in the penalty of $100,000, conditioned that said
executor should well and truly, perform all the duties which
were or might by law be required of him. This suit was brought
by Frances L. Bryan against the surety Alexander, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of
Alabama, on the 12th of February, 1879. The complaint sets
forth that the plaintiff obtained a final decree in that court
against said executor, June 10th, 1877, for $4,292.12, and costs,
in a suit in equity brought by legatees of John Horn against
said executor and others, and alleges the non-payment of the
decree and a breach of the condition of the bond. The defendant pleaded several unverified pleas, to each of whidh the
plaintiff demurred. The demurrers. were sustained. The defendant did not plead further, and the court rendered a judgment for the plaintiff, for $5,207.26. The defendant has brought
the case here by a writ of error.
The first plea alleges that the defendant
Mn. JuSTicE BiAcm~oRD delivered the opinion of the

"did not undertake in manner and form as in said complaint
alleged and set forth, and that he does not owe the debt claimed
of him in said complaint."
The grounds of demurrer to this plea are (1) that the plea
that the defendant did not undertake amounts only to a denial
of the execution of the bond and is not verified by oath; (2)
that the plea is not verified; (3) that the averment that the
defendant does not owe the sum sued for cannot be legally
pleaded and tenders no legal issue. By the Code of Alabama
(ยง2989) a plea which denies the execution by the defendant of
an instrument in writing which is the foundation of the suit,
must be verified by affidavit. It .is admitted that the want of
such affidavit may be reached by a demurrer. But it is contended that the plea is not a plea of nm e factum. If the

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

allegation that the defendant did not undertake in manner and
form as alleged is not a denial of the execution of the bond, but
merely a denial of its operation or effect, it is a bad plea, 2 Chitty
Pl. 483, and equivalent only to the plea of nil debet, which follows, and bad with that. Indeed, the plaintiff in error contends that all the plea does is to deny liability for a breach of the
bond at the time the suit was commenced. In Alabama, the
plea of nil debet in an action of debt on a bond with condition,
where breaches are assigned, is bad on demurrer. Reid v. Naish,
23 Ala. 733.
The other pleas raise the question of the statute of limitations. The Code of Alabama provides that actions against the
sureties of executors for any misfeasance or malfeasance of
their principal must be brought within six years after the
cause of action has accrued, and not afterwards, "the time to
be computed from the act done or omitted by their principal,
which fixes the liability of the surety." ยง 3223, 2898; ยง 3226,
2901. In order to apply the provisions of this statute it is
necessary to state the facts of the case, as set forth in the
pleas.
On the 21st of May, 1860, the Probate Court of Marengo
County made a decree on partial settlement of the accounts of
the executor, in which it was found that there remained due to
Frances L. Bryan, as a legatee, $2,700.18, for which she was
entitled to a decree. Other sums were found to be due to
other legatees, and it was decreed that they should recover
those sums of the executor; but in regard to Frances L. Bryan
the decree stated that it appeared there was a suit pending
between her and her husband respecting the right of possession of the property therein ascertained to be her share, and it
ordered that the executor should hold the balance in cash so
ascertained to be due to her, subject to the further decree of
the court to be made on the determination of said suit. The
legatees and the executor were parties to this decree.
Proceedings for a final accounting were afterwards had in
the Probate Court, and, on the 2d of May, 1864., it made a de.
cree, stating that the executor had fully administered the estate and had a balance of money for distribution, which he had

ALEXANDER v. BRYAN.
Opinion of the Court.

invested in four per cent. bonds of the Confederate States, and
ordering that of this amount he should pay to Frances L.
Bryan, as her share, due to her, $995.78, in said Confederate
bonds, this sum being in addition to the prior sum of
$2,700.18. It ordered the payment of four other shares in
such Confederate bonds, and that the resignation of the executor, then filed, should be recorded.
On the 15th of November, 1867, Sarah Lockhart, one of the
legatees, and her husband, and Narcissa Lockhart, another
legatee, filed a bill in equity in said Circuit Court against the
executor, making as defendants also the other legatees, de.
visees and heirs of the testator, and others, including Frances
L. Bryan and her husband, alleging the failure of the executor
to pay to the legatees, including Frances L. Bryan, the moneys
so decreed to them, and praying an enforcement of their payment, and a decree therefor against the executor, and against
James D. Alexander, as surety on his bond. On the 2d of
June, 1871, the court decreed that the executor pay to the
plaintiffs in the suit, in lawful money of the United States,
the several amounts adjudged to be due to them by the decree of the Probate Court of May 2d, 1861, with interest; and
that the remaining defendants be authorized to apply for suoh
order and relief as they might be entitled to ask on the principles of said debree. The executor appealed to this court, and
the decree was affirmed at October Term, 1873, Horn v. Zook.
1hart, 17 Wall. 570, it being held that the executor could not
exonerate himself from liability for the moneys adjudged to
be due to the legatees, by paying the same in Confederate
bonds. In the opinion of the court it was said:
"The validity of the action of the Probate Court of Alabama in
the present case, in the settlement of the accounts of the executor,
we do not question, except so far as it approves the investment of
funds received by him in Confederate bonds, and directs payment
to the legatees of their distributive shares in those bonds. Its action in this respect was an absolute nullity, and can afford no protection to the executor in the courts of the United States."
On the 1st of April, 1874, Frances L. Bryan fled her pevox. cx-27

OCTOBER TERM1, 1883.
Opinion of the Court

tition in the Circuit Court, in the said suit in equity therein,
under the provisions of the decree, praying for the recovery of
the moneys so ascertained to be due to her by the decrees of
the Probate Court, against the executor and against Alexander. The petition set forth that the moneys were her separate
estate and that she had been divorced from her husband. The
court, on June 10th, 1877, made a decree adjudging that no recovery could be had against Alexander, and dismissing the petition as to him, but without prejudice, and decreeing that the
petitioner recover, with interest and costs, from the executor,
$4,292.12, which was the amount found to be due to her by
the report of a master, as the amount, with interest, of the decrees in her favor in the Probate Court.
On these facts the question arises as to when the act was
done or. omitted by the executor which fixed the liability of
the surety, so that the cause of action had accrued against the
surety, and the six years had commenced to run.
The plaintiff in error contends that the probate decree of
1864 enabled Mrs. Bryan then to sue him, because the provision as to payment in Confederate bonds was void and could
and should have been so treated by her; and that thus there was
then an absolute decree against the executor to pay the money,
which fixed the liability of the surety at that time. If this be
not so, then it is contended that his liability Was fixed by the
equity decree of June 2d, 1871.
It is very plain that the probate decree of 1860, which
directed the executor to retain the share of Mrs. Bryan,
$2,700.18, till further order, and did not direct him to pay it
to her, cannot affect the question before us. It is settled law
in Alabama, that, until there is a judicial ascertainment of the
default of the principal, the liability of the surety is not fixed,
within the statute; that the bar in favor of the surety must be
computed from the time of such ascertainment of such default;
that the words "act done," in the statute, mean such judicial
ascertainment; and that it is that only which creates a cause
of action against the surety, and authorizes a suit against him
on his bond. Fretwell v. XcLemore, 52 Ala. 124, 136. There
must be something more than an auditing of accounts, or an

ALEXANDER v. BRYAN.
Opinion of the Court.

ascertainment or judgment that the distribute's share is so much,
or that the distributee is entitled to so much. There must be a
decree ordering payment and on which process to collect can
issue against the principal. Gilbreatk v.Afanning, 23 Ala. 418.
As to the probate decree of 1861, the effect of the decision
of this court in 17 Wall. 570, was, to leave that decree a valid
decree so far as it ascertained that the $995.78 was the amount of
the share of Mrs. Bryan, but to declare it invalid so far as it
directed anything as to payment. All it directed as to payment was to order the executor to pay the $995.78 in Confederate bonds. This was no direction to pay in lawful money of
the United States. It was only an order to turn over the
bonds. The direction as to the bonds being invalid the entire
direction as to payment fell. Under that decree, so long as the
direction to pay in the bonds stood, not abrogated by judicial
action, the executor could not be sued to pay in anything but
the bonds. Hence the surety could not be sued to pay in lawful money of the United States. This court, in saying that the
direction as to payment in bonds was "an absolute nullity,"
said nothing in conflict with these views. The ascertainment
that $995.78 remained due to Mrs. Bryan as her share was
coupled with the direction to pay in the bonds, and until the
latter was got rid of by judicial action there was only a
qualified decree as to the share. The two parts of the decree
were not so unconnected that the former could be allowed to
operate as a distinct money judgment by rejecting the latter.
The clause.as to payment was a whole, and directed that the
executor pay to Ms. Bryan the $995.78 "so remaining due
her as aforesaid, in bonds as aforesaid." This was preceded by
the finding that the executor had received so much money and
had invested it "in four per cent. Confederate bonds." Hence,
the direction as to payment had immediate reference to the
acquittance of the executor by enabling him to discharge his
liability to Mrs. Bryan by turning the bonds over to her, and
it is not to be presumed the Probate Court intended to say he
should pay in any other way. It did not so say. Therefore,
Mrs. Bryan could not have maintained any suit against the
surety, based on that decree.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

The equity decree of 1871 gave to Mrs. Bryan no greater
right to sue the surety than she had before. It was a money
decree only for the plaintiffs in it, conferring on her, as a
defendant, the right to apply in the suit for like relief. She
could obtain no relief in the Probate Court, as was held in
Bryan v. Iorn,42 Ala. 496, because that court had no jurisdiction after the settlement of the administration and the resignation of the executor in 1864. Her decree of 1877, in the
equity suit, was the first judicial ascertainment of the default
of the executor. That decree dismissed her petition as against
the surety, "but without prejudice." This showed that it was
not dismissed on the merits, but for some defect which was
allowed to be obviated by another suit. County of Aobile v.
Zimrall, 102 U. S. 691, 705.
The above views dispose of the defence on the merits. The
second plea alleges that more than six years from the time of
any act done or omitted by the executor, which fixed the liability of the surety on the bond, had elapsed before the commencement of the suit, and that thie right of the plaintiff did
not accrue within six years before the commencement of the
suit, and that the suit and the plaintiff's right of recovery are
barred by the six years' statute of limitations. This plea asserts only a conclusion of law, without averring any facts. The
complaint alleges merely the giving of the bond, the decree of
1877,and the non-payment of the money, as a breach of the
condition of the bond. The suit being brought in 1879, no
facts appeared in the complaint to show the application of the
limitation on which the plea is based. That being so, the plea
inton,v. Trustees, 1 Ala. 124. This
must state the facts.
gr3und of demurrer is stated in the demurrer to the second
plea.
By a stipulation in the record, the decree of 1864 is to be
considered as set forth in htec verba in the third plea, and the
omission to copy it as part of the plea, as agreed by the stipulation, is a clerical error. It appears in the other pleas.
These are al the errors assigned, and
The judgment of the Circuit Court is afflrmed.

