UNITED STATES v. CAREY.
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. CAREY & Another.
UNITED STATES v. CAREY.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Submitted December 12th, 1883.-Decided January 7th, 18M4.

Error-Exetion.s-Evidence-Practice.
When it appears that an exception to the rejection of evidence was taken after
the trial was over, and at the time when the bill of exceptions was tendered
for signature, it does not constitute a proper subject for assignment of
error.

Petitions on distillers' bonds to recover taxes and penalties of
the distillers and their sureties.
3rh. -AssistantAtto
.A'. J D.
error.

ey-General.Mauryfor the United States.

Rouse and .Xr. thlWam Grant for defendants in

31R. CHIEF JUSTICE, WAIT

delivered the opinion of the court.

The judgment in each of these cases was rendered after a
trial by jury on the 11th of March, 1880, during the November
term, 1879, although it was not signed until May 20th, 1880.
On the 19th of May, 1880, which was at the April term of that
year, the district judge who presided at the trial signed a bill
of exceptions, which sets forth that on the trial the United
States offered in evidence a document which was annexed and
purported to be a copy of an assessment made by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue for May, 1875, to the introduction of which the defendants objected, and that the objection was sustained. The bill of exceptions then proceeds as
follows:
"To which ruling of the court plaintiff excepts, and tenders this
his bill of exceptions, which is accordingly signed this 19th day
of May, 1880."

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

The rule is well established and of long standing that an exception to be of any avail must be taken at the trial. It may
be reduced to form and signed afterwards, but the fact that it
was seasonably taken must appear affirmatively in the record
by a bill of exceptions duly allowed or otherwise. Phelps v.
.Mayer, 15 How. 160; U ited 8tates v. Breitling,20 How. 252;
French v. Edwards, 13 Wall. 506; Stanton v. Embrey, 93 U.
S. 548; Hunnicutt v. Peyton, 102 U. S. 333. This clearly is
not such a case. There is nothing whatever to indicate that
any exception was taken to the rejection of the evidence complained of until the next term after the trial was over and the
judgment rendered, though not signed. Even the liberal extension of the rule granted in Simpson v. Dall, 3 Wall. 460, is
not enough to reach this defect. The language here implies
an exception only at the time of tendering the bill of exceptions to be signed, which was not only long after the trial, but
at a subsequent term of the court.
It follows that the errors assigned are not such as we can
consider, and
The judgments are cafimne

JEINESS v. CITIZENS' NATIONAL BANK OF ROME.
IN

ERROR

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF
111ICHIGAIN.
Submitted December 20th, 188.-Decided January 7th, 1834.

Apeal-uridiction;

When a judgment below is for an amount sufficient to give jurisdiction above,
but it appears affirmatively on the record that after deducting from itan
amount not in contest below, there remains less than the jurisdictional
hum,this court has no jurisdiction.

.'.

W. B. Wi2Uctms for the plaintiff in error.

X& CHmF Jusmc WA=T delivered the opinion of the court.
The judgment in this case is for $7,275.16, but it appears

