LAKE SHORE &c., R. CO. v. CAR-BRAKE SHOE CO. 229
Syllabus.
security. But as the court accepted it, it must be considered as
a sufficient compliance with the order of the court, and that it had
relation back to the time of the allowance of the appeaL"

We decided in Railroadv. Blair, 100 U. S. 661, that if an

appeal was allowed by the court during the term at which the
decree was entered, and the bond was not executed until after
the term, a citation was necessary; but that related only to
procedure under the appeal, and is not in conflict with the
former decisions as to the effect of an allowance of an appeal
by the judicial act of the court in session.
In view of these rulings we hold that if a court in session
and acting judicially allows an appeal which is entered of
record without taking a bond within sixty days after rendering
a decree, a justice or judge of the appellate court may, in his
discretion, grant a supersedeas after the expiration of that time,
under the provisions of ยง 1007 of the Revised Statutes.
Nothing here said is to be construed as affecting appeals other
than such as are allowed by the court acting judicially and in
term time.
27e motion i8 denied.

LAKE SHORE & MICHIGAN SOUTHERN RAILWAY
COMPANY v. NATIONAL CAR-BRAKE SHOE
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Argued January 9th, 10th, 1884.-Decided January 28th, 1884.

Paent.
In this case it was held, that, on the record herein, claim 2 of letters patent
No. 40,156, granted to James Bing, October 6th, 1863, for an '"improved
shoe for car-brakes," namely, "The combination of shoe A, sole B, clevis
D and bolt G, the whole being constructed and arranged substantially as
specifled," does not embody any lateral rocking motion in the shoe, as an
element of the combination.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.
On such a construction, there was, on the record herein, patentable novelty
in said claim ; and a structure having the same four parts in combination,
with merely formal and not substantial mechanical differences, infringes
said claim.

Mr. George Payson for appellant.
Mr. Thomas A. Banning (.3 r. Ehraim Banning was with
him), for appellee.
MR.JUSTICE BLATcHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity, brought by the National Car-Brake
Shoe Company, a corporation, against the Lake Shore and
Michigan Southern Railway Company, in the Circuit Court of
the United -States for the Northern District of Illinois, for the
infringement of letters patent No. 40,156, granted to James
Bing as inventor, October 6th, 1863, for 17 years, for an "nproved shoe for car-brakes." The bill was filed June 7th, 1880,
less than 4 months before the exTiration of the patent. The
answer, which was filed October 4th, 1880, 2 days before the
patent expired, denies infringement and alleges that the thing
patented had been in public use or on sale, with the consent
and allowance of Bing, for more than 2 years prior to.his application for the patent, and that the invention had been abandoned by him to the public. There is no defence of want of
novelty or patentability set up in the answer. The replication
was filed on the same day with the answer. No proofs were
taken, but 5 days after the filing of the replication, and 3
days after the patent expired, the parties entered into the following written stipulation:
"It is hereby stipulated by and between the parties to the
above entitled suit, for the purposes of said suit and no other, as
follows, to wit : 1. That the patent sued on, No. 40,156, issued
to James Bing, October 6th, 1863, may be considered as formally
offered in evidence, and that complainant is the exclusive owner
thereof. 2. That the small brass model offered by complainant,
and marked 'Complainant's Exhibit Bing's Brake-Shoe,' is a
correct representation of the invention described in said patent,
except that defendant claims that said model has not enough rock-

LAKE SHORE &c., R. CO. v. CAR-BRAKE SHOE CO. 231
Opinion of the Court.
ing motion. 3. That the small wooden model offered by defendant, and marked Defendant's Exhibit A, is also a correct representation of the said invention, except that complainant claims
that said model has too much rocking motion. 4. That defendant has used two different kinds of brake-shoes, both of which
are claimed by complainant to be infringements of the second
claim of said patent, but as to both of which infringement is denied by defendant. 5. That the first of said brake-shoes is constructed in all respects like that described in said patent, except
that the two parts, viz., the shoe and the sole, are fitted on each
other so snugly as to have no rocking motion. 6. That the
second of said shoes is correctly represented by the small wooden
model marked Defendant's Exhibit B, and that it also has no
rocking motion. 7. That brake-shoes having a detachable sole
attached to the shoe by bolts passing through the shoe and sole at
right angles to the face of the sole, one at the top and one at the
bottom, and secured by nuts screwed on to the inner ends of said
bolts, so that the sole could be taken off upon the removal of said
bolts, had been known and used in the United States for some
years prior to the said invention of said Bing, and that the small
wooden model marked 'Defendant's Exhibit C' is a correct
representation of said brake-shoes. 8. That said shoe last mentioned was suspended from the truck by a hanger or clevis attached to a bolt passing through a hole at the top of said shoe
as shown in said model. 9. That neither of said brake-shoes
used by defendant has the lateral rocking motion described in
said patent, or infringes the first claim of said patent. 10.
That, if the court be of the opinion that said lateral rocking motion forms no part of the second claim of said patent, then the
first of said defendant's brake-shoes above mentioned is admitted
to be an infringement of said claim, and the decision as to that
shoe shall be in favor of complainant, provided the court shall also
be of the opinion that there is, on that construction, any patentable novelty in said claim. But, if the court be of the opinion
that said lateral rocking motion does form a part of said second
claim, or that there is no patentable novelty in said claim if
so construed as to exclude said rocking motion, then, in either
of these cases, the decision shall be in favor of defendant as to
said first shoe. 11. That, if the court shall be of the opinion that
said lateral rocking motion forms no part of the second claim, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

that defendant's second brake-shoe, viz., that the Defendant's
Exhibit B, is, in its mechanical construction, substantially the
same as the combination described in said claim, then the decision
as to that shoe also shall be in favor of complainant, provided the
court shall also be of opinion that there is any patentable novelty
in said claim when so construed. But, if the court shall be of
opinion, either that said lateral rocking motion does not form a
part of said second claim, or that the mechanical construction of
said shoe-brake is not substantially the same as that shown in said
claim, or that there is no patentable novelty in said claim if so
construed as to exclude said rocking motion, then, in either of
said cases, the decision as to that shoe shall be in favor of defendant. 12. That, in case the court finds the issues in favor of thecomplainant, both parties waive a reference to the master, and
agree that complainant's damages may be assessed at the sum of
two hundred dollars. 13. That all the eviaence in this case is
comprised in this stipulation, the models therein referred to, and
the said letters patent."
On that stipulation, and the models referred to in it, and the
patent, the case was heard in the Circuit Court. That court
filed a written opinion on the 26th of October following, 9 Bissell, 503, upon which a decree was entered on the same day, as
of the preceding 9th of October, declaring the patent to be
good and valid in law, so far as regards the second claim thereof, and to be owned by the plaintiff; that the defendant had
infringed the patent by using the invention secured by the second
claim; and that the plaintiff recover $200 damages, in accordance with the stipulation, the same to be in full satisfaction
of all claims of the plaintiff against the defendant on account
of the defendant's infringement of the patent. The defendant
has appealed.
.The specification of the patent is in these words:
"My invention relates to the construction of shoes or rubbers
for car-wheels, and consists- Firstly. In constructing the .shoe
of two parts, in the peculiar manner described hereafter, so that
the part in contact with the wheel can accommodate itself to the
same. Secondly. In the peculiar combination, described hereafter,

LA

SHORE &c., R. CO. v. CAR-BRAKE SHOE CO. 233
Opinion of the Court.

of the two parts of the shoe, the clevis by which the shoe is suspended to the truck, and the bolt which secures the clevis to the
shoe, and the two parts of the shoe to each other. In order to
enable others skilled in this class of mechanism to make and apply
my invention, I will now proceed to describe its construction and
operation. On reference to the accompanying drawing, which
forms a part of this specification, Fig. 1 is a vertical section of
my improved shoe for railway car-brakes ; Fig. 2 a sectional plan
on the line 1, 2, Fig. 1; and Fig. 3 a front view of the shoe.
Similar letters refer to similar parts throughout the several views.

-D

Dr

D

UB

A is the shoe, and B the sole, the latter being formed to fit the
periphery of the car-wheel (part of which is shown by the line x),
and having a lug a, which fits between the lugs b Y9on the shoe.
D is a clevis, the upper end of which is suspended to the truck of
the railway car, the lower end being arranged to embrace the lugs
b and W9of the shoe, a bolt, G, passing through the lower end of the
clevis, through the lugs b and Y9of the shoe, and through the lug
a of the shoe B. It will be observed, on reference to Fig. 2, that
the lug a is made tapering, and that the bolt G fits loosely in the
said lug, as well as in the lugs b and 6', so that the sole is self-adjustable laterally, for a purpose described hereafter. Aprojection
d on the sole B fits into a socket in the shoe, in such a manner
that the sole can vibrate laterally in the said socket, while the

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Cour

projection serves to maintain the shoe and sole in their proper
relative positions. H is the usual brake beam, one end of which
fits into a recess in, and is secured to, the shoe A, the other end
of the beam being secured to a similar shoe on the opposite side
of the car track. The peripheries of car-wheels are always bevelled
or inclined, so that it becomes necessary to make the soles of the
ordinary shoes or rubbers of a corresponding bevel, one shoe at
one end of the beam being bevelled in one direction, and the other
shoe at the opposite end of the beam being bevelled in a contrary
direction. Even when the usual shoes are properly fitted to the
bevelled peripheries of the wheels, the lateral movement of the
axles, as the wheels traverse curves of the track, is such that the
ordinary shoes cannot fit accurately at all times. Another evil
attending the use of ordinary shoes or rubbers is, that, as the
lateral movement of the axles takes place, an undue strain is imparted to the brake beam. These difficulties are avoided by my
invention, inasmuch as the sole B is permitted to have a lateral
rocking motion on the shoe, and can at once accommodate itself
to the bevel of the wheel, or to any variation caused in that bevel
by the lateral movement of the axle. Another improvement in
my invention is the peculiarly simple arrangement of the clevis
which supports the shoe, the bolt G serving the purpose of connecting the clevis to the shoe and the latter to the sole."
The claims of the patent are as follows:
" Firstly. The shoe A and sole B, both being constructed and
adapted to each other substantially as described, so that the sole
can have a lateral rocking movement on the shoe, for the purposes specified. Secondly. The combination of shoe A, sole B,
clevis D, and bolt G, the whole being constructed and arranged
substantially as specified."
It is stipulated that neither of the two brake-shoes of the
defendant infringes the first claim of the patent, for the reason
assigned in the stipulation, that neither of them has the lateral
rocking motion described in the patent, although it is stipulated, as to one of them, that it is constructed in all respects
like that described in the patent, except that the shoe and the
sole are fitted to each other so snugly as to have no rocking
motion.

LAKE SHORE &c., R. CO. v. CAR-BRAKE SHOE CO. 235
Opinion of the Court
1. The first question presented for decision, on the stipulation, is as to whether the lateral rocking motion forms a part
of the second claim of the patent. The Circuit Court held that
the second claim did not embody, as an essential element, the
lateral rocking motion, and that such element need not be
found in a car-brake shoe in order to make it an infringement
of the second claim. The view urged on the part of the defendant is, that the combination of the shoe, the sole, the clevis,
and the bolt cannot, as a whole, be "constructed and arranged
substantially as specified," if the whole is not so constructed
and arranged as to admit of the lateral rocking motion, and
that there is no suggestion in the specification of any construction or arrangement in which the sole has not a lateral rocking
motion on the shoe. We think that the Circuit Court was
correct in its construction of the second claim, on the record
before it. The first part of the invention is stated in the specification to be the peculiar manner of constructing the shoe
proper and the sole in two parts, in such way that the sole can
accommodate itself to the wheel by reason of its having a lateral rocking motion on the shoe proper. That is the subjectmatter of the first claim. The second part of the invention,
or, as the specification says, the second improvement in the
invention, is stated to consist in the peculiar combination of
the shoe proper, the sole, the clevis, and the bolt, the clevis
suspending the shoe and its sole to the truck, and the bolt securing the clevis to the shoe proper and that to the sole. The
combination of the mode of suspending by the clevis with the
mode of securing by the bolt is the same, whether the sole
has a lateral rocking motion or not. That combination, as a
whole, is constructed and arranged substantially as specified,
even where there is no lateral rocking motion to the sole. The
words "substantially as specified" mean "substantially as specified in regard to the combination which is the subject of the
claim." The adaptation of the shoe proper and the sole to
each other in such way as to produce or allow of the lateral
rocking motion was the subject of the first claim. The combination formed by the peculiar arrangement of the clevis and
the bolt in reference to the shoe proper and the sole is a com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

bination which has no effict to produce or prevent the lateral
rocking motion; and the stipulation states that this combination can be used constructed exactly as described in the patent
-whenthe shoe proper and the sole are so snugly fitted together
that the sole has no rocking motion. In consonance with this
view, the specification and the claims maintain a distinction
between the arrangement for the rocking motion and the manner of combining together the shoe proper, the sole, the clevis,
and the bolt. The stipulation declares that when the combination of the second claim is made there may be a lateral rocking motion in the sole or there may not, for it states that the
exact structure of the patent may be copied and yet the fitting
of the sole to the shoe proper may be so snug that there may
be no lateral rocking motion in the sole, and so no infringement of the first claim. Hence, a loose fitting of the same
parts in the same structure would produce a lateral rocking
motion and an infringement of the first claim. There is no
suggestion that the combination of the second claim was not
new; and, there being nothing shown in the state of the art
which requires any such construction of the second claim as
that contended for by the defendant, and it being fairly susceptible of the opposite construction, and the latter being one
which is commensurate with the real invention embraced in
the second claim, and one which prevents the real substance of
that invention from being bodily appropriated by an infringer,
it is proper to give the claim such a construction.
2. The next question raised by the stipulation is as to whether
there is any patentable novelty in the second claim, on such a
construction. No question of novelty is raised in the answer,
and nothing is introduced in evidence on that subject, or on
the state of the art, except what is found in paragraphs '7and 8
of the stipulation. The opinion of the Circuit Court, which is
set forth in the record, speaks of "the various patents that
have been put in evidence," but none such are before us; and
the brief of the appellee states that the model marked "Defendant's Exhibit C "1(mentioned in paragraph I of the stipulation)
"has been selected as the nearest approach to the patented invention, from a large number used in the court below." This

LAKE SHORE &c., R. CO. v. CAR-BRAKE SHOE CO. 237
Opinion of the Court.
would indicate that the full case presented to the court below
is not presented here. As, however, the parties to this suit
have stipulated as to what the record is, so far as anything in
the controversy between them, in this suit, is concerned, and
the stipulation states that it is a stipulation for the purposes of
this suit and no other, and the clerk of the Circuit Court certifies the transcript to be "a true, correct, and complete transcript
of the record of all the proceedings" had in the Circuit Court
in this suit, "as appears from the files and records of" the
court remaining in his custody and control, what is furnished
to us must be accepted as sufficient for the purposes of this suit,
leaving our decision in the case to stand, in its bearing in respect to other suits on the same patent, with only that weight
which is due to it in view of the manner in which the case is
presented in the record.
The brake-shoe described in paragraphs 7 and 8 of the stipulation and shown in "defendant's Exhibit C," it is very clear,
does not contain what is covered by the second claim of the
patent, as we have defined it, or destroy its patentable novelty.
Bing accomplishes by one bolt what required three bolts in the
prior structure. His whole structure can be taken off from the
clevis by removing the one bolt, while in the prior structure it
required the removal of two bolts to take off the sole from the
shoe proper, and the removal of a third bolt to take off the
shoe proper from the clevis.
3. On the foregoing views, it is admitted by paragraph 10 of the
stipulation, that the first of the defendant's brake-shoes infringes
the second claim, and there must be a decision, as to that shoe,
in favor of the plaintiff.
4. The only remaining question is as to whether the defendant's
other brake-shoe, Exhibit B, is, in its mechanical construction,
substantially the same as the combination described or shown
in the second claim. In the Bing brake-shoe, the clevis is a
three-sided structure, the two lower ends of which embrace the
two lugs of the shoe proper, and the bolt passes through the
lower end of one arm of the clevis, then through one of the
lugs on the shoe proper, then through the lug on the sole, then
through the other lug on the shoe proper, and then through the

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

lower end of the other arm of the clevis, and the sole cannot
be removed without first removing the bolt, because the lug on
the sole fits in between the lugs on the shoe proper. In the
defendant's structure there is no bolt-hole through the lug on
the sole, but there is a curved depression made in its top, in
which the curved lower end of the clevis rests. The clevis
does not have two arms, the lower ends of which embrace the
lugs of the shoe proper, and the bolt goes through one of those
lugs, then through a hole in the lower end of the clevis (the
clevis being a vertical piece without arms and not three-sided), and
then through the other one of those lugs, but the bolt does not
go through the lug on the sole. That lug is kept in place by
the pressure on it of the curved lower end of the clevis, which
cannot move out of position, because the bolt goes through it
and holds it. The bolt aloie, without the clevis, will not confine the lug on the sole. The lug on the sole cannot be removed
until the bolt is removed and the clevis is detached. The shoe
proper, the sole, and the clevis are combined by the single bolt
which secures together the clevis, the shoe proper, and the sole.
The bolt and the clevis perform the same office in the two
structures, and the mechanical differences are merely formal
and not substantial. The combination consists of the same
four parts, differing only in form.
The decree of the Circuit Court is afflrmed.

CHOUTEAU & Others v. BARLOW, Executor and Trustee.
APPERA

FWo

THE CIRUIT couRT OF THE UNITED STATES FOT
DISTRICT OF MINNE5OTA.

Axgaed January 10th, 11th, 1894.-Decdded January 2th,

The decree of the Circuit Court was reversed on a question of fact, as to
whether an agreement of a certain character was made between the coprXtners in a im, on its dissolution, as to the interest which the copartners
should have in the future in a portion of its assets.

