DIMPFELL v. OHIO AND MISSISSIPPI R. CO.

209

Opinion of the Court.

DIMPFELL & Another v. OHIO & MISSISSIPPI RAIL-

WAY COMPA3NY & Another.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Argued November 28th, December 3d, 1883.-Decided January 21st, 1884.

Corporatiow-Equity.
In order to give a standing in a court of equity to a small minority of stockholders contesting as ultraWres an act of the directors against which a
large majority makes no objection, it must appear that they have exhausted all the means within their reach to obtain redress of their griev-

ances within the corporation itself, and that they were stockholders at the
time of the transactions complained of, or that the shares have devolved
on them since by operation of law.
-Mr.Charke W. Hassler opened for appellants.
.-fJL.Edgar .
pany, appellee.

Johnson for Farmers? Loan & Trust Com-

Xr. B. Harisonfor same.
2r.

7homas ff. XTeCarter closed for appellants.

MR. JUSTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was brought to set aside the contract by which the
Ohio and Mississippi Railway Company became the owner of a
portion of its road known as the Springfield Division, and to
obtain a decree from the court declaring that the bonds issued.
by the company, and secured by a mortgage upon that division,
are null and void. It was commenced by Dimpfell, an individual stockholder in the company, who stated in his bill, that
it was filed on behalf of himself and such other stockholders as
might join him in the suit. Callaghan, another stockholder, is
the only one who joined him. The two claim to be the owners
of fifteen hundred shares of the stock of the company. The
whole number of shares is two hundred and forty thousand.
The owners of the balance of this large number make no complaint of the transactions which the complainants seek to annul;
VOL. cx-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

And it does not appear that the complainants owned their
shares when these transactions took place. For aught we can
see to the contrary, they may have purchased the shares long
afterwards, expressly to annoy and vex the company, in the hope
that they might thereby extort, from its fears, a larger benefit
than the other stockholders have received or may reasonably
expect from the purchase, or compel the company to buy their
shares at prices above the market value. Unfortunately, litigation against large companies is often instituted by individual
stockholders from no higher motive.
But assuming that the complainants were the owners of the
shares held by them when the transactions of which they complain took place, it does not appear that they made any attempt
to prevent the purchase of the additional road, and the issue
by the company of its bonds secured by a mortgage on that
road. We are not informed of any appeal by them to the
directors to stay their hands in this respect, nor of any representation to them of a want of power to make the purchase
and issu the bonds, nor of any probable injury which would.
arise therefrom. The purchase was made in January, 1875,
and this suit was not commenced until September 12th, 1878.
In the meantime the new road purchased was operated as an
integral part of the line of the Ohio and Mississippi Railway
Company, without objection from any stockholder. During
these three years and eight months the earnings of the new
road went into the treasury of the company, and the bonds
issued upon the mortgage of that road, executed by the company in payment of its purchase, passed into the hands of
parties who bought them on the faith of contracts which had
been carried out without complaint from any one. Objections
now come with bad grace from parties who knew at the time
ll that was being done by the company, and gave no sign of
dissatisfaction. The purchase and the issue of the bonds were
public acts known to them, and presumably to all the stockholders.
A stockholder must make a better showing of wrongs which
he has suffered, and also of efforts to obtain relief against them,
before a court of equity will interfere and set aside the trans-

DIMPFELL v. OHIO & MISSISSIPPI R. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

actions of a railway company or of its directors. It is not
enough that there may be a doubt as to the authority of the
directors or as to the wisdom of their proceedings. Grievances,
real and substantial, must exist, and before an individual stockholder can be heard he must show, in the language of this
court, that "he has exhausted all the means within his reach to
obtain, within the corporation itself, the redress of his grievances
or action in conformity to his wishes." Ha wes v. Oakland,
104 U. S. 450.
In that case the court added that the efforts to induce such
action as he desired on the part of the directors or of the
stockholders, when that was necessary, and the cause of his
failure, should be stated with particularity in his bill of complaint, accompanied with an allegation that he was a stockholder at the time of the transactions of which he complains, or
that his shares have devolved on him since by operation of law.
According to the rule thus declared, and its value and importance are constantly manifested, the complainants have no
standing in court, and the demurrer was properly sustained for
want of equity in the bill.
This view renders it unnecessary to consider whether, as held
by the court below, the railway company had the right to acquire the Springfield Division and to execute the mortgage
and issue the bonds mentioned by virtue of the legislation of
Illinois.
The complainants have not shown any ground which would
justify the Court, on this application, to inquire into the validity
of the transaction.
-Decreeafirmed.

