OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

large enough for our jurisdiction, it is sufficient to say that no
facts were disclosed which entitled the six certificates to be
paid in full. We perceive no error in the decree as to him or
the company, and it is
Afirmned.

NORTHERN BANK OF TOLEDO v. PORTER TOWNSHIP TRUSTEES.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
Argued January 21st, 168.-Decided March 3d, 1884.
Estqppel---.unicipal Bond--Slatutes of Ohio.
The act of the legislature of Ohio of March 21st, 1850, as amended March
25th, 1851, authorized county commissioners to submit to the people at
special elections the question whether the county would subscribe to the
stock of a railroad company and issue bonds in payment thereof; and if the
subscription should not be authorized by the county, then that the question
of subscriptions by township trustees might be submitted to the people of
the respective townships. .ield, That until refusal by the counties to subscribe, either by direct vote or by failure within a reasonable time to call
an election for thd purpose, the townships were without legislative authority
to subscribe, or to issue township bonds in payment of subscriptions.
A municipal corporation which issues a bond reciting on its face that it is
issued in part payment of a subscription to the capital stock of a railroad
made by the corporation in pursuance of the several acts of the general
assembly of the State and of a vote of the qualified electors of the corporation taken in pursuance thereof, is estopped thereby from denying that an
election was held, or that it was called and conducted in the mode required
by law; but it is not estopped from showing that the corporation was without legislative authority to issue the bonds.
The facts which a municipal corporation, issuing bonds in aid of a railroad,
is not permitted, against a bonafide holder, to question, in face of a recital
in the bonds of their existence, are those connected with or growing out of
the discharge of the ordinary duties of such of its officers as were invested
with authority to execute them, and which the statute conferring the power
made it their duty to ascertain and determine before the bonds were issued.
The cases relating to this point examined and reviewed.

This was an action to recover principal and interest of bonds

NORTHERN BANK v. PORTER TOWNSHIP.

609

Opinion of the Court.
issued by the defendant in error (also defendant below), in
payment of a subscription to a railroad. The defence of want
of legislative authority is set forth in the opinion of the court.
Verdict for the defendants. The plaintiffs excepted to the
charge, and brought the case here by writ of error.

.i1. E. W .Kittredge, for plaintiff in error.
.Xr.IT.

Ramsey, for defendant in error.

"M,. JrSTICE IJARLA. delivered the opinion of the court.
On the 15th day of April, 1851, the commissioners of Delaware County, Ohio, passed an order submitting to the voters
of that county, at a special election to be held on the 17th day
of June thereafter, a proposition to subscribe the sum of $50,000
to the capital stock of the Springfield and Mansfield. Railroad
Company, a corporation created under the laws of that State,
and whose name was subsequently changed to that of the
Springfield, Mount Vernon and Pittsburgh Railroad Company.
This proposition was approved by the electors, and subsequently,
August 4th, 1851, the county commissioners made a subscription of the amount voted, payable in bonds .of the county.
On December 6th, 1851, the commissioners signed the
requisite number of bonds, payable to the railroad company,
and deposited them with the auditor for delivery when the
road was located and a contract made for its construction
through the county. It having been claimed that these bonds
were defectively executed, others were signed by the commissioners on the 27th day of December, 1852, to be retained by
the auditor until those first signed were returned, which being
done that officer was directed to deliver the new bonds to the
company or to some person authorized to receive them.
After the vote in favor of a county subscription of $50,000,
and two days before the formal subscription in its behalf by
the county commissioners, that is, on the 2d day of August,
1851, the trustees of Porter Township, in Delaware County,
passed an order submitting to the voters of that township, at a
special election to be held on the 30th day of August thereafter,
a proposition for a subscription of not exceeding $10,000 and
voL. cx 89

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

not less than $8,000 to the capital stock of the same company,
payable in township bonds, upon the condition that the road
should be permanently located and established through that
township. The proposition was approved by the voters, and
subsequently, on May 6th, 1853, township bonds for the amount
voted with interest coupons attached were issued. They were
made payable to the railroad company or its assignees, and
were in the customary form of negotiable municipal bonds.
Each one recited that it was "issued in part payment of a subscription of one hundred and sixty shares of $50 each to the
capital stock of the said Springfield, M ount Vernon and Pittsburgh Railroad Company, made by the said township of Porter
in pursuance of the provisions of the several acts of the general
assembly of the State of Ohio and of a vote of the qualified
electors of said township of Porter taken in pursuance thereof."
This action involves the liability of the township upon these
bonds. The judgment below necessarily proceeded upon the
ground that they were void for want of legal authority in the
township to issue them. In behalf of the plaintiff in error, the
present holder of the bonds, it is claimed that there was statutory authority for their issue, and that, apart from any question
of such authority, the township is estopped by their recitals,
and by numerous payments of annual interest, from disputing
its liability. Whether the township had legal authority to
execute them, is the first question to be considered.
By the first section of an act of the general assembly of Ohio,
passed February 28th, 1846, it is provided that whenever county
commissioners should thereafter be authorized to subscribe to the
capital stock of any railroad company incorporated in that
State, it shall be their duty "to give at least twenty days'
notice

.

.

.

to the qualified voters of said county to vote

at the next annual election to be held in the several townships
in said county for or against the subscription as aforesaid; and if a majority of the electors aforesaid, voting at said
election for or against a subscription as aforesaid, shall be in
favor of the same, such authorized subscription may be made,
but not otherwise." 1 S.& 0., note, 275.
By the charter of the Springfield and Mansfield Railroad

NORTHERN BANK v. PORTER TOWNSHIP.

611

Opinion of the Court.

Company, granted March 21st, 1850, it is provided that "the
county commissioners of any county through which said railroad may be located, shall be, and they are hereby, authorized
to subscribe to the capital stock of said company any sum not
exceeding $50,000," and for the payment thereof power was
given to borrow money, lay and collect taxes, &c.; further, that
"if the county commissioners of any county through which
said road shall pass, shall not be authorized by the vote of said
county to subscribe stock to said road, the trustees of any township through which said.road may be located shall be, and-they
are hereby, authorized to subscribe any sum of money not exceeding $50,000 to the capital stock of said company, and provide for the payment of said stock in the same manner that
county commissioners aforesaid are authorized: Ppovided,That
the total amount which may be subscribed to the capital stock
of said company by any county, and the townships therein, on
the line of said road, shall not exceed $100,000 ;" still further,
that "no subscription shall be made by the county commissioners of any county, or the trustees of any tbwnship through
which said road may be located, until a vote of the qualified
voters of said county or township has been declared in favor of
such subscription, in the manner pointed out in the mode of
proceeding when county commissioners may be authorized by
law to subscribe to the capital stock of railroads, turnpike roads,
or other incorporated companies in this State, passed February
28th, 1846." 48 0. L. 294; Act March 21st, 1850, §§ 4, 5,
and 6.
But by an act passed farch 25th, 1851, county commissioners of the several counties, through or into which the Springfield and Mansfield Railroad shall be located, were authorized
to cause the question of subscription provided for in the act of
March 21st, 1850, "to be submitted to the qualified voters of
their respective counties, at a speciazl election, to be by them
called for that purpose, at any time thereafter, having first
given twenty days' previous notice ;" further, that " if the commissioners of any of the counties aforesaid shall not be authorized by the vote as aforesaid to subscribe to the capital stock
of said company on behalf of their respective counties, then,

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

and in that case, the question of subscription by township trustees provided for in the same act incorporating said railroad
company shall be submitted to the people of the respective
townships, at a special election, to be called as provided for in
the first section of this act"-such elections to be conducted in
all respects in the same manner provided for in the charter of
the company, except as modified by the said act of March 25th,
1851.
The authority of Porter Township to issue the bonds in
question must be derived from the provisions of these acts of
assembly. If not found in them, it must be adjudged that no
such authority existed.
The fundamental proposition advanced in behalf of plaintiff
is, that immediately upon the passage of the act of March 21st,
1850, Porter Township was vested with power to make a subscription to the stock of the company, that the non-authoriza,
tion of the commissioners, by a vote of the electors, to make a
county subscription, was only a condition precedent to the exercise of that power; consequently, that the township is
estopped by the recitals in the bonds, and its acquiescence for
a series of years, ts evidenced by payments of interest, to rely
upon the non-fulfilment of that condition. In this construction
of the acts in question we are unable to concur. It is entirely
clear, we think, that the township was without power to make
a subscription until the time arrived when it could be properly
said that the county, as such, had not been. authorized by a
vote of the electors to make a subscription. We do not mean
to say that the right of townships on the line of the road to
make subscriptions could be indefinitely postponed by the mere
neglect or failure of the county commissioners to submit the
question of subscription to a popular vote. That construction,
the Supreme Court of Ohio correctly said in 2£oemaker v.
GoshJen Township, 14 Ohio St. at p. 580, "would defeat the
manifest intention of the statute, which contemplates and
authorizes the submission of the question to townships, when
subscription on behalf of the county is refused." Such refusal
would undoubtedly exist, whenever the electors upon a submission of the question expressed their disapproval of a county

NORTHERN BANK v. PORTER TOWNSHIP.

613

Opinion of the Court
subscription. But within any just interpretation of the words
of the statutes, the power of townships to act would come into
existence, not only by a direct refusal of the commissioners to
submit the question of subscription to popular vote, but upon
their failure within a reasonable time to call an election for
that purpose. Shoemaker v. Goshen Township, supra.
The first annual election in townships after the passage of
the act of March 21st, 1850,-which act, by reference to that Df
1816, contemplated that the question of subscription would be
determined at an annual election-was on the first Monday in
April of that year. No submission, however, of that question
could have been ordered for that election, because it occurred
within twenty days after the passage of the act of 1850. The
short time intervening between those dates prevented the requisite notice being given; consequently, the first annual election
in townships at which the county commissioners could, under that
act, have taken the sense of the electors, was that fixed by law
for the second Tuesday of October, 1850. Did the mere failure
to submit the question of a county subscription at the lastnamed election justify the township in claiming that the commissioners had not been authorized by a vote of the county to
make a subscription? Were townships, from and after that
date, and solely because of such failure, invested with power to
move in the matter of subscriptions to the stock of this company? . These questions we deem it unnecessary to determine;
for, if answered in the affirmative, it still appears that no such
power was in fact exercised by Porter Township prior to the
passage of the act of March 25th, 1851; by which act, as correctly adjudged by the Supreme Court of Ohio in Swemaker v.
Goshen Township, the former statutes were so far modified as
not only to renew the power of county commissioners to subscribe for the stock of this company, if thereunto authorized by
the voters at a special election, but in language more direct and
specific than employed in former statutes, to make the authority
of townships to subscribe depend upon the county commissioners
not having been authorized to make a county subscription.
The general assembly of Ohio, it must be presumed, knew at
the passage of the act of March 25th, 1851, what particular

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

counties and townships had then made subscriptions to the
stock of this railroad company. That act was passed with
reference to the situation as it actually was. *When,therefore,
upon the basis of non-authorization of the commissioners to
make a county subscription, it was provided, in the act of
March 25th, 1851, that "then, and in that case" townships
might subscribe, it must have been intended that the authority
of any township, which had not then acted, to subscribe should
exist only where, after the passage of the latter act, a county
subscription had been negatived either by a vote of the people
or by the refusal or failure of the commissioners within
a reasonable time to submit the question to a popular vote. If
this be not so, then Porter Township would have been authorized in its discretion to vote on a proposition to subscribe either
at the annual election in April, 1851, or at any special election
thereafter held, notwithstanding the county may have previously
made a subscription. But such we cannot suppose to be a correct interpretation of the statute. Consequently, from and after
March 25th, 1851, it was apparent from the terms of the act of
that date that Porter Township had no legal authority to make
a subscription of stock, except in the contingency-which the
township could not control, but of which it and all others were
bound to take notice-t~at the commissioners had not been
authorized to subscribe for the county. So far from that contingency ever arising, the commissioners (before the township
election was called) had been authorized by popular vote to
subscribe, and they did in fact subscribe, the sum of $50,000.
It cannot, therefore, be said that the commissioners were not
authorized by a vote of the county to subscribe at the time
Porter Township voted; consequently, the latter was without
legal authority to make a subscription. This conclusion is satisfactory to our minds, and is, besides, sustained by the-decision
of the Supreme Court of Ohio in Hopple v. Trustees o Broun
Townsh p in Delaware County, 13 Ohio St. 311, reaffirmed in
Hopp
pe v. Hiple, 33 Ohio St. 116.
It is, however, contended, that by the settled doctrines of
this court, the township is estopped by the recitals of the bonds
in suit, to make its present defence. The bonds, upon their

NORTHERN BANK v. PORTER TOWNSHIP.

615

Opinion of the Court.
face, purport to have been issued "in pursuance of the provisions of the several acts of the general assembly of the State
of Ohio, and of a vote of the qualified electors in said township of Porter, taken in pursuance thereof." These recitals,
counsel argue, import a compliance, in all respects, with the
law, and, therefore, the township will not be allowed, against
a bonafide holder for value, to say that the circumstances did
not exist which authorized it to issue the bonds. It is not to
be denied that there are general expressions in some former
opinions which, apart from their special facts, would seem to
afford support to this proposition in the general terms in which
it is presented. But this court said in Cohens v. Virginia, 6
Wheat. 264, and again in Carrollv. Lessee of Carroll,16 How.
'275, 287, that it was "a maxim not to be disregarded that
general expressions, in every opinion, are to be taken in connection with the case in which those expressions are used. If
they go beyond the case, they may be respected, but ought not
to control the judgment in a subsequent suit when the very
point is presented for decision." An examination of the cases,
in which those general expressions are found, will show that
the court has never intended to adjudge that mere recitals by
the officers of a municipal corporation in bonds issued in aid of
a railroad corporation precluded an inquiry, even where the
rights of a bonaflde holder were involved, as to the existence
of legislative authority to issue them.
A reference to a few of the adjudged cases will serve to
illustrate the rule which has controlled the cases involving the
validity of municipal bonds. In Commissioners of .nox County
v. Aeyinwall, 21 How. 539, power was given to county commissioners to subscribe. stock to be paid for by county bonds, in
aid of a railroad corporation, the power to be exercised if the
electors, at an election duly called, should approve the subscription. It was adjudged that as the power existed, and
since the statute committed to the board of commissioners authority to decide whether the election was properly held, and
whether the subscription was approved by a majority of the
electors, the recital in bonds executed by those commissioners,
that they were issued in pursuance of the statute giving the

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court

power, estopped the county from alleging or proving, to the
prejudice of a bonaR fide holder, that requisite notices of the
election had not been given. In Bissell v. City of Teferesonyille, 24 How. 287, the court found that there was power to
issue the bonds, and that after they were issued and delivered
to the railroad company it was too late, as against a bona
jFde holder, to call in question the determination of the facts,
which the law prescribed as the basis of the exercise of the
power granted, and which the city authorities were authorized
and required to determine before bonds were issued.
Probably the fullest statement of the settled doctrine of this
court is found in Town of Colom v. Eaves, 92 U. S. 484. In
that case the authority to make the subscription was made, by
the statute, to depend upon the result of the submission of the
question to a popular vote, and its approval by a majority of
the legal votes cast. But whether the statute in these particulars was complied with, was left to the decision of certain persons who held official relations with the municipality in whose
behalf the proposed subscription was to be made. It was in
reference to such a case that the court said: "When legislative
authority has been given to a municipality, or to its officers, to
subscribe to the stock of a railroad company, and to issue
municipal bonds in payment, but only on some precedent condition, such as a popular vote favoring the subscription, and
where it may be gathered from the legislative enactment that
the officers of the municipality were invested with power to
decide whether the condition precedent has been complied with,
their recital that it has been, made in the bonds issued by them
and held by a bona ftde purchaser, is conclusive of the fact and
binding upon the municipality; for the recital is itself a decision of the fact by the appointed tribunal." This doctrine
was reaffirmed in Bueanan v. Litehfield, 102 U. S. 278, and in
other cases, and we perceive no just ground to doubt its correctness, or to regard it as now open to question in this court.
But we are of opinion that the rule as thus stated does not
support the position which counsel for plaintiff in error take in
the present case. The adjudged cases, examined in the light of
their special circumstances, show that the facts which a munic-

NORTHERN BANK v. PORTER TOWNSHIP.

617

Opinion of the Court.

ipal corporation, issuing bonds in aid of the construction of a
rail'oad, was not permitted, against a bonajde holder, to question, in face of a recital in the bonds of their existence, were
those connected with or growing out of the discharge of the
ordinary duties of such of its officers as were invested with authority to execute them, and which the statute conferring the
power made it their duty to ascertain and determine before the
bonds were issued; not merely for themselves, as the ground of
their own action, in issuing the bonds, but, equally, as authentic
and final evidence of their existence, for the information and
action of all others dealing with them in reference to it. Such
is not the case before us. Had the statutes of Ohio conferred
upon a township in Delaware County authority to make a subscription to the stock of this company, upon the approval of the
voters at an election previously held, then a recital, by its
proper officers, such as is found in the bonds in suit, would have
estopped the township from proving that no election was in
fact held, or that the election was not called and conducted in
the mode prescribed by law; for in such case it would be clear
that the law had referred to the officers of the township, not
only the ascertainment, but the decision of the facts involved:
in the mode of exercising the power granted. But in this case,
as we have seen, power in townships to subscribe did not come
into existence, that is, did not exist, except where the county
commissioners had not been authorized to make a subscription.
Whether they had not been so authorized, that is, whether the
question of subscription had or not been submitted to a county
vote, 6r whether the county commissioners had failed for so
long a time to take the sense of the people as to show that they
had not, within the meaning of the law, been authorized to
make a subscription, were matters with which the trustees of
the township, in the discharge of their ordinary duties, had no
official connection, and which the statute had not committed to
their final determination. Granting that the recital in the
bonds that they were issued "in pursuance of the provisions of
the several acts of the general assembly of Ohio," is equivalent
to an express recital that the county commissioners had not been
authorized by a vote of the county to subscribe to the stock of

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

this company, and that, consequently, the power conferred
upon the township was brought into existence, still it is the recital of a fact arising out of the duties of county officers, and
which the purchaser and all others must be presumed to know
did not belong to the township to determine, so as to confer or
create power which, under the law, did not exist. In the view
we have taken of this case, .XecClure v. Township of Oxford, 91
U. S. 429, is instructive. That was a case of municipal subscription to a railroad corporation. The act conferring the authority provided that it should take effect (and, therefore,
should not be a law except) from and after its publication in a
particular newspaper. Thirty days' notice of the election was
required. But the election was held within thirty days from
the publication in the paper named in the act. The bonds recited that they were issued in pursuance of the statute, describing it by the date of its passage, not the date of its publication
in the newspaper designated. They showed upon their face that
the election was held April Sth, 1872. But the purchaser was
held bound to know that the act was not in fact published in
that newspaper until March 21st, 1872; that, therefore, it did
not become a law until from and after that date. He was, consequently, charged with knowledge that the election was held
upon insufficient notice. The bonds were, for these reasons,
declared to be not binding upon any township. The publication of the act, plainly, was not a matter with which the township trustees, as such, had any official connection. It was not
made their duty to have it published. The time of publication
would not necessarily appear upon the township records; but
publication in a named newspaper was, as the face of the act
showed, vital, not simply to the exercise but to the very existence of the power to subscribe. We may repeat here what was
said in Anthony v. oJasper'County io U. S. 693, 697, that
purchasers of municipal bonds "are charged with notice of the
laws of the State, granting power to make the bonds they find
on the market. This we have always held. If the power exists in the municipality the bonaftde holder is protected against
mere irregularities in the manner of its execution; but if there
is a want of power no legal liability can be created." So here,

McDONALD v. HOVEY.
Syllabus.

Porter Township is estopped by the recitals in the bonds from
saying that no township election was held, or that it was not
called and conducted in the particular mode required by law.
But it not estopped to show that it was without legislative authority to order the election of August 30th, 1851, and to issue
the bonds in suit. The question of legislative authority in a*
municipal corporation to issue bonds in aid of a railroad company cannot be concluded by mere recitals; but the power existing, the municipality may be estopped by recitals to prove
irregularities in the exercise of that power; or, when the law
prescribes conditions upon the exercise of the power granted,
and commits to the officers of such municipality the determination of the question whether those conditions have been performed, the corporation will also be estopped ,yrecitals which
import such performance.
.hVwjudgment is afflirrnd.
MR.JUSTICE MATTHEWS

having been of counsel, did not sit in

this case or participate in its decision.

MoDONALD v. HOVEY & Another.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Argued January 30th and 81st, 188-Dectded March 3d, 1884.

Limitations, Statute of-Statutes, Construction of.
The construction usually given to statutes of limitations, that a disability mentioned in the act must exist at the time the action accrues in order to prevent the statute from running, and that after it has once commenced toran
no subsequent disability will interrupt it, is to be given to Rev. Stat. § 1008,
prescribing the time within which writs of error shall be brought or appeals
taken to review in this court judgments, decreei or orders of a Circuit or
District Court in any civil action at law or in equity.
Where English statutes, such as theStatute of Frauds and the Statute of Limitations, have been adopted into our own legislation, the known and settled
construction of those statutes by courts of law has been considered as
silently incorporated into the acts, or has been received with all the weight
of authority.

