FIVE PER CENT. CASES.
Statement of ]Facts.

FIVE PER CENT. CASES.
IOWA v. YoFARLAND, Commissioner.
ILLITOIS v. MIcFARLAND, Commissioner.
OEIGINAL.
Argued November 1st, and 2d, 1883.-Decided Harch Sd, 1884.

.slitary Land Warrants-Fiveper cent. Act.
Under the act of March 3d, 1845, ch. 76, relating to the admission of Iowa
into the Union, or the act of April 18th, 1818, ch. 67, for the admission of
the State of Illinois into the Union, by which "five per cent. of the net
proceeds" of public lands lying within the State, and afterwards "sold by
Congress." shall be reserved and appropriated for certain public uses of the
State, the State is not entitled to a percentage on the value of lands disposed of by the United States in satisfaction of military land warrants.

These were petitions filed in this court by each of the States
of Iowa and Illinois, at the relation of its governor, relying
upon the provision of an act of Congress relating to its admission into the Union, by which it was agreed that "five per
cent. of the net proceeds" of lands lying within the State, and
afterwards "sold by Congress," should be appropriated for certain public uses of the State; contending that the State was
thereby entitled to five per cent. of the value, computed at the
rate of one dollar and twenty-five cents per acre, of lands disposed of by Congress in satisfaction of military land warrants;
and .praying for a writ of mandamus to the Commissioner of
the General Land Office, to compel him, in accordance with
section 456 of the Revised Statutes, to state an account between the United States and the State, for the purpose of
ascertaining the sum of money so due to the State, and to
transmit the account to the Comptroller of the Treasury for
his examination and action, to the end that that sum might be
allowed and paid by the United States.
The provisions of the acts of Congress, on which the petitioners relied were as follows:
The sixth section of the act of Congress of M,arch 3d, 1845,

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

ch. 76, supplemental to the act of the same day by which the
State of Iowa was admitted into the Union, contained, among
the propositions offered to the legislature of the State for its
acceptance or rejection, and which, if accepted under the authority conferred on the legislature by the convention which
framed the Constitution of the State, should be obligatory
upon the United States, the following: •
",Fifth. That.five per cent. of the net proceeds of sales of all
public lands lying within the said State, which have been or shall

be sold by Congress from and after the admission of said State,
after deducting all the expenses incident to the same, shall be
appropriated for making public roads and canals within the said
State, as the legislature may direct: -rovided, That the five
foregoing propositions herein offered are on the condition that

the legislature of the said State, by virtue of the powers conferred upon it by the convention which framed the Constitution
of the said State, shall provide, by an ordinance, irrevocable without the consent of the United States, that the said State shall
never interfere with the primary disposal of the soil within the
same by the United States, nor with any regulations Congress
may find necessary for securing the title in such soil to the bona
.flde purchasers thereof ; and that no tax shall be imposed on
lands the property of the United States; and that in no case
shall non-resident proprietors be taxed higher than residents ;
and that the bounty lands granted, or hereafter to be granted, for
military services during the late war, shall, while they continue
to be held by the patentees or their heirs, remain exempt from

any tax laid by order or under the authority of the State, whether
for State, county, township, or any other purpose, for the term
of three years from and after the date of the patents, respectively."

5 Stat. 790.

The sixth section of the act of Congress of April 18th, 1818,
ch. 67, to enable the people of the Illinois Territory to form a
Constitution and State government, and for the admission of
the State of Illinois into the Union, contained among the propositions offered to the convention of the Territory, and which,
if accepted by the convention, should be obligatory upon the
United States, the following:

FIVE PER CENT. CASES.
Statement of Facts.
CCThird.

That five per cent. of the net proceeds of the lands

lying within such State, and which shall be sold by Congress from
±id after the first day of January, one thousand eight hundred and
nineteen, after deducting all expenses incident to the same, shall be
res erved for the purposes following, viz.: two-fifths to be disbursed,
under the direction of Congress, in making roads leading to the
State; the residue to be appropriated, by the legislature of the
State, for the encouragement of learning, of which one-sixth
part shall be exclusively bestowed on a college or university:"
"Providled always, That the four foregoing propositions, herein
offered, are on the conditions that the convention of the said State
shall provide, by an ordinance, irrevocable without the consent of
the United States, that every and each tract of land sold by the
United States, from and after the first day of January, one thousand eight hundred and nineteen, shall remain exempt from any tax
laid by order or under any authority of the State, whether for State,
county or township, or any other purpose whatever, for the term
of five years from and after the day of sale. And further, That
the bounty lands granted, or hereafter to be granted, for military
services during, the late war, shall, while they continue to be held
by the patentees or their heirs, remain exempt, as aforesaid, from
all taxes, for the term of three years from and after the date of
the patents respectively; and that all the lands belonging to
citizens of the United States, residing without the said State, shall
never be taxed higher than lands belonging to persons residing
therein." 3 Stat. 430, 431.
By the act of Congress of March 2d, 1855, ch. 139, entitled:
"An Act to settle certain accounts between the United States
and the State of Alabama," it was enacted as follows:
"That the commissioner of the general land office be, and he is
hereby, required to state an account between the United States
and the State of Alabama, for the purpose of ascertaining what
sum or sums of money arc due to said State, heretofore unsettled,
under the sixth section of the act of March second, eighteen hundred and nineteen, for the admission of Alabama into the Union ;
and that he be required to include in said account the several
reservations under the various treaties with the Chickasaw, Choctaw, and Creek Indians within the limits*of Alabama, and allow

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.
and pay to said State five per centum thereon, as in case of other
sales." 10 Stat. 630.
By the act of June 3d, 1857, ch. 104, entitled "An Act to
settle certain accounts between the United States and the State
of Mississippi and other States," it was enacted as follows:
"SECT. 1. That the commissioner of the general land office
be, and he is hereby, required to state an account between the
United States and the State of M ississippi for the purpose of ascertaining what 'sum or sums of money are due to said State, heretofore unsettled, on account of the public lands in said State, and
upon the same principle of allowance and settlement as prescribed
in the ' Act to settle certain accounts between the United States
and the State of Alabama,' approved the second of March, eighteen
hundred and fifty-five ; and that he be required to include in said
account the several reservations under the various treaties with the
Chickasaw and Choctaw Indians within the limits of Mississippi,
and allow and pay to the said State five per centum thereon, as in
case of other sales, estimating the lands at the value of one dollar
and twenty-five cents per acre.
"SECT. 2. That the said commissioner shall also state an account between the United States and each of the other States upon
the same principles, and shall allow and pay to each State such
amount as shall thus be found due, estimating all lands and permanent reservations at one dollar and twenty-five cents per acre."
11 Stat. 200.
Each petition alleged that the State had accepted the propositions and faithfully kept and performed on its part the conditions set forth in the act of admission; that, prior to the
dates of the passage of the acts of 1855 and 1857 respectively,
the five per cent. on the cash sales of the public lands lying
within the States of Alabama and Mississippi had been regularly and periodically paid to those States respectively, so that
at those dates there were no unsettled accounts, growing out
of the five per cent. clause of the acts for the admission of those
States into the Union, except for lands entered and purchased
with military land warrants; and that by the act of 1857 it
was the duty of the Commissioner of the.General Land Office,

FIVE PER CENT. CASES.
Statement of Facts.

when required to do so, to state an account between the United
States and each State upon the same principles of allowance as
prescribed in the act of 1855, and by that act it was his duty,
upon proper application, to state such an account for the pur.
pose of ascertaining what sum or sums of money, theretofore
unsettled under the act for the admission of the State into the
Union, were due to it on account of lands lying within the
State, disposed of by the United States for, or in the satisfaction and redemption of, military land warrants issued by the
United States for military services.
Each petition further alleged that the government of the
United States, in disposing of the public lands by sale in this
and other western States, adopted two methods, one for cash,
the other for the redemption of its outstanding military warrants or obligations, calling for a specific quantity of land,
issued to the soldiers who had enlisted and served in the different wars of the country, under statutes enacted in advance of
their enlistments, and as a compensation for their military
services.
Each petition suggested that by the act of August 14th, 1848,
ch. 180, 9 Stat. 332, military land warrants were made receivable, at the rate of $1.25 per acre for the number of acres
therein contained, in pkyment for any of the public lands subject to private entry; and that by the act of March 22d, 1852,
ch. 19, 10 Stat. 3, all military land warrants, theretofore and
thereafter issued, were made assignable by the persons to whom
they were issued, and also made receivable from their assignees,
at the rate aforesaid per acre, in payment for any of the public
lands located and taken up under the pre-emption laws of the
United States.
Each petition further alleged that the filve per cent. hadbeen
allowed and paid to the petitioner, at stated and proper periods,
on sales for cash, but had been withheld on lands located and
purchased with military land warrants; that the sum so withheld amounted to $881,006.60 in the case of Iowa, and $595,853.31 in the case of Illinois; that the respondent, though
formally requested, had refused to state an account as prayed
for; and that the duty of stating such an account was purely

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

ministerial and mandatory in its character, leaving no room for
the exercise of his own judgment and discretion in its performance.
Upon each of these petitions a rule to show cause was
granted at the last term. The Commissioner of the General
Land Office at this term filed an answer, in the nature of a return to each rule, admitting that upon the facts stated in the
petition, as modified and explained by the facts set forth below, he refused to state the account prayed for, and alleging
that the grounds of his refusal were these:
First. That neither the act of Congress relating to the admission of the State into the Union, nor the acts of 1855 and 1857,
authorized the State to claim a percentage upon public lands
disposed of by the United States to the holders of bounty land
warrants.
Second. That the meaning of those statutes had been established, as between the parties, by the contemporaneous and
continuous construction thereof by the General Land Office and
the State in numerous and important transactions, each of
which suggested a question, if one existed, as to their construction.
In the case of the State of Iowa, the answer alleged that between August, 1848, and July, 1858, eleven different settlements had been made in the General Land Office for the percentage due to the State, covering in all the sum of $580,710.49, in none of which was the present claim suggested,
although from time to time during that period large amounts
of the public lands lying within the State had been disposed of
by the United States to the holders of such warrants; that this
contemporaneous practical construction had governed all transactions with the nineteen States interested in the statutory provision under consideration; that on September 7th, 1858, the
State of Iowa made a formal demand upon the Secretary of the
Interior as the official superior of the then Commissioner of
the General Land Office, to be allowed the percentage now
claimed; and that its demand was refused, for the reason
stated by the Secretary in the following letter to the Governor
of Iowa:

FIVE PER CENT. CASES.
Statement of Facts.

"Department of the Interior, September 20th, 1858.
"In reply to your letter of the 7th instant, in relation to the
application for an allowance of five per centum, claimed to be due
the State of Iowa on military land warrant locations, I have the
honor to state that, in my opinion, the act of 1847, to which you
refer, is a bounty land act, and that no distinction can properly
be made between locations made under it and those made under
other bounty land laws. The location of warrants issued under
the act of 1847 is not considered as constituting a sale of the
public lands, as contemplated by the act admitting Iowa into the
Union. That act appropriated five per cent. of the net proceeds
of sales of all public lands for making public roads and canals
within the State. There being no net proceeds accruing from
locations by military land warrants, the allowance of five per
centum on such locations cannot be regarded as having been appropriated or provided for by law.
J. THOmPSON, Secretary.
Iowa.
P.
Lowe,
R.
"Governor
The answer in the case of the State of Iowa further alleged
that this was the only demand ever made by the State of Iowa,
or by any other State, upon the Secretary of the Interior or
upon the Coinmissioner of the General Land Office, in accordance with the claim now set up; and that the State of Iowa
had ever since, practica1ly, acquiesced in the construction suggested by the Secretary of the Interior, and had confined its
efforts to applications to Congress for a change in the statutes.
In the case of the State of Illinois, the answer alleged that
from November, 1830, to September, 1863, thirty-three different settlements had been made, covering in all the sum of
8711,744.82, and of which that made in 1863, for $1,565.80,
was for Indian reservations only, in none of which was the
present claim suggested, although from time to time during
fifteen or more years of that period large amounts of the public lands lying within the State were disposed of by the United
States to holders of bounty land warrants.
Each answer concluded by denying that the petitioner, in
any view of the case, was entitled to a writ of mandamus.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.
31r. Allen G. Thurnan, -Yr.William, -. Evart, Xfr.
Samuel Sllallabarger,-k. 1. P. Lowe and .3Af'. TV' ". Wiltshire
for petitioners.
.Yr..Yf L. Woods on behalf of the State of Alabama, also
by leave of court filed a brief for the petition.
.Yr. Solleitor-Generalopposing.
MR.JusTIcE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court. After
stating the facts in the foregoing language, he continued:

The first question argued in each of these cases may be
shortly stated thus: Is the State, under the compact made with
it by Congress at the time of its admission into the Union, by
which "five per cent. of the net proceeds" of public lands lying
within the State, and" sold by Congress" after such admission,
shall be reserved and appropriated for the benefit of the State,
entitled to a percentage on the value of lands, not sold by the
United States for cash, but disposed of by the United States
in satisfaction of military land warrants?
This question is rendered important by the large sums of
money involved, and by the fact that similar stipulations are
contained in acts passed by Congress relating to seventeen
other western or southern States, beginning with § 7 of the act
of April 30th, 1802, ch. 40, for the admission of the State of
Ohio into the Union. 2 Stat. 175.
Upon full consideration of the question, with the aid of the
able arguments of counsel, the court is of opinion that lands
disposed of by the United States in satisfaction of military land
warrants are not sold, within the meaning of the statutes upon
which the petitioners rely.
A sale, in the ordinary sense of the word, is a transfer of
property for a fixed price in money or its equivalent. When
property or money is transferred or paid as a compensation for
service, the property or money may be said to be the price of
the service; but it can hardly be said that the service is the
price of the property or money, or that the property or money
is sold to the person performing the service. Nor can it be
said that the pay of an officer or soldier in the army or navy is

FIVE PER CENT. CASES.
Opinion of. the Court.

sold to him by the government in consideration of a price
paid by him.
Land or money, other than current salary or pay, granted by
the government to a person entering the military or naval service of the country, has always been called a bounty; and
while it is by no means a gratuity, because the promise to
grant it is one of the considerations for which the soldier or
sailor enters the service, yet it is clearly distinguishable from
salary or pay measured by the time of service. For example,
it was held by Lord Mansfield and the Court of King's Bench
in 1781, that though the master of an apprentice was entitled
by the act of Parliament of 2 & 3 Anne, ch. 6, § 17, to the
wages of his apprentice enlisting into the navy, yet the apprentice's share of prize money belonged to himself, and not to his
master, because it was not wages, but the bounty of the crown.
Carsan v. Watts, 3 Doug. 350; Eadev v. YFandeput, 4 Doug. 1.
Upon like grounds, it has been held that bounty money paid
by the United States, or by a State, city or town, upon the
enlistment of a minor as a soldier, during the recent war, belonged to him, and not to his father or master. Banks v. CoAant, 14: Allen, 497; Kelly v. iSprout, 97 Mass. 169. See also
Alexhnder v. Wellington, 2 Russ. & My]. 35, 56, 64.
The learned counsel for the State of Iowa referred to General
Washington's Circular Letter of June 8th, 1783, to thegovernors
of the States, and especially to the passage in which he insisted
that the half pay and commutation promised by the Congress
of the Confederation to the officers of the army, during the war
of the Revolution, "should be viewed, as it really was, a
reasonable compensation offered by Congress, at a time when
they had nothing else to give, to the officers of the army for
services, then to be performed; it was the only means to prevent a total dereliction of the service; it was a part of their
hire; I may be allowed to say, it was the price of their blood
and of your independency; it is therefore more than a common
debt; it is a debt of honor; it can never be considered as a
pension or gratuity, nor be cancelled until it is fairly discharged."
But in the very next paragraph he spoke of "the bounties many
of the soldiers have received," "besides the donation of lands."

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

The question before us is not whether the promise by the
government of a bounty in land or money to persons entering
the military service is a contract for valuable consideration;
but whether, when carried into effect, it constitutes a sale by
the government ; and it is quite clear that land granted byway
of reward for military .services has never been treated, in the
legislation of the United States upon the subject, as sold, but
has always been considered as analogous to money paid in
a gross sum by way of bounty.
By the resolution of September 16th, 1776, the Congress
of the Confederation resolved that "twenty dollars be given as
a bounty" to each non-commissioned officer and private soldier
enlisting to serve during the war, and that "Congress make
provision for granting lands" to officers and soldiers in certain
proportions ; "such lands to be provided by the United States,"
and any necessary expenses in procuring them to be paid and
borne by the United States in the same proportion as the other
expenses of the war. 2 Journals of Congress, 357.
The act of Virginia of December 20th, 1783, to cede the
Northwest Territory to the United States, and the deed of cession of March 1st, 1784, were upon the following conditions:
That the Territory so ceded should be laid out and formed into
States, to be admitted members of the Federal Union. That,
"A quantity, not exceeding one hundred and fifty thousand
acres of land, promised by this State, shall be allowed and granted"
to General George Rogers Clarke and his officers and soldiers.
"That in case the quantity of good lands on the southeast side of
the Ohio, upon the waters of Cumberland River, and between the
Green River and Tennessee River, which have been reserved by
law for the Virginia troops upon Continental establishment, should,

from the North Carolina line bearing in further upon the Cumberland lands than was expected, prove insufficient for their legal
bounties, the deficiency should be made up to the said troops in
good lands, to be laid off between the rivers Scioto and Little
Miami, on the northwest side of the river Ohio, in such proportions as have been engaged to them by the laws of Virginia. That
all the lands within the territory so ceded to the United States,
and not reserved for or appropriated to any of the before mentioned

FIVE PER CENT. CASES.
Opinion of the Court.

purposes, or disposed of in bounties to the officers and soldiers of
the American army, shall be considered as a common fund for
the use and benefit of such of the United States as have become
or shall become members of the confederation or federal alliance
of the said States." 1 Constitutions and Charters, 427, 428.
The acts of Congress under the Constitution, containing
grants of land or money to soldiers, have habitually and repeatedly spoken of them as bounties, using the words "bounty
of three months' pay and one hundred and sixty acres of land ;"
"military bounty lands;" "military land bounties;" "bounty
in money and land;" "money bounty;" "bounty of one hundred and sixty acres of land;" "bounty in land;" "bounty
right;" "bounty land;" and "military land bounty." Acts
of December 24th, 1811, ch. 10, § 2; January 11th, 1812, ch.
14, § 12; May 6th, 1812, ch.V; December 12th, 1812, ch. 4,
§ 3; 2 Stat. 669, 673, 729, 788; January 28th, 1814, ch. 9, § 2;
February 10th, 1814, ch. 11, § 4; December 10th, 1814, ch.
10, §§ 3-5; 3 Stat. 96, 97, 147; February 11th, 1847, oh. 8,
§9 ; September 28th, 1850, ch. 85 ; 9 Stat. 125, 520. See also
_FrencI v. ,encer,
p
21 How. 228; Hacwe v. .Mfore, 22 How.
185. They have never spokei of such grants of lands as sales,
or of the lands granted as sold.
The very provisions of the acts for the admission of the
States of Illinois and Iowa into the Union, which are the foundation of the claims now urged, clearly mark the distinction
between lands sold for money, and bounty lands granted for
military services.
In the Illinois act, the agreement on the part of the United
States is that "five per cent. of the net proceeds of the lands
lying within such State, and which shall be sold by Congress,"
"shall be reserved," part "to be disbursed," under the direction
of Congress, in making roads leading to the State, and the rest
"to be appropriated," by the legislature of the State, for the
encouragement of learning. And among the conditions to be
performed on the part of the State are: First. "That every
and each tract of land sold by the United States" shall remain
exempt from all State taxation for "five years from and after
VO,. 0X-81

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

the day of sale." Second. "That the bounty lands granted, or
hereafter to be granted, for military services during the late
war, shall, while they continue to be held by the patentees or
their heirs," be exempt from State taxation for "three years
from and after the date of the patents respectively." To hold
that "lands sold by Congress" included "bounty lands granted
for military services" would make these two conditions contra,dictory of each other; for "every and each tract of land -sold
by the United States" was to be absolutely exempt from State
taxation for five years, whereas military bounty lands were to
be exempt only while held by the patentees or their heirs, and
not exceeding three years.
The Iowa act manifests the same distinction; for, while it
omits the provision exempting "lands sold by the United
States" from State taxation, it retains the provision exempting
from taxation "bounty lands granted for military services; "
and it emphasizes the meaning of the leading clause of the
proposition, by inserting therein the words "of sales," so as to
read "five per cent. of the net proceeds of sales of all public
lands, lying with the said State, which have been or shall be
sold by Congress from and after the admission of said State,
after deducting all the expenses incident to the same, shall be
appropriated for making public roads and canals within the said
State, as the legislature may direct."
When each of these acts speaks of lands "sold by Congress,"
"1five per cent. of the net proceeds" of which shall be reserved,
and be "disbursed" or "appropriated" for the benefit of the
State in which the land lies, it evidently has in view sales in
the ordinary sense, from which the United States receive proceeds, in the shape of *moneypayable into the treasury, out of
which the five per cent. may be reserved and paid to the State;
and does not intend to include lands promised and granted by
the United States as a reward for military service, for which
nothing is received into the treasury. The question depends
upon the terms in which the compact between the United States
and each State is expressed, and not upon any supposed equity
extending those terms to cases not faifly embraced within their
meaning.

FIVE PER CENT. CASES.
Opinion of the Court.

From the very beginning of our existence as a nation, the reward of military service has been treated as a national object
and a public use, to which the national domain might justly
and lawfully be applied. 'As new States have been successively
formed out of the territory of the United States, and admitted
into the Union, the acts of admission have reserved, for the
making of public highways and other public uses of the State,
a twentieth part of the net proceeds of public lands lying
within the State,- and afterwards sold by the United States.
But public lands taken up on military land warrants issued
under general laws, passed for the national object of encouraging and rewarding military service, and not limited to any particular State, have no more been regarded as lands sold, for any
portion of the value of which the national government should
account to the State in which the lands are actually taken up,
than lands reserved and used for forts, arsenals or light-houses.
Some reliance is placed by the petitioners upon the acts of
Congress of August 14th, 1848, ch. 180, and March 22d, 1852, ch.
19, by which military land warrants are made assignable, and are
also made receivable, either from the original grantee or from his
assignee, in payment for public lands, at the rate of one dollar
and twenty-five cents per acre. But the promise of the United
States is made to the soldier at the time of his entering the
service, and the grant, in execution of that promise, is made
when the warrant is issued to him, and in consideration of
services then already performed. At that time, no particular
land is transferred to him, nor even the State designated in
which the land shall be. The selection of the land, which first
determines the State where it is to be taken up, is the act, not
of the government, but. of the holder of the warrant. The
government receives no new consideration, and makes no new
promise or grant, when the warrant is assigned by the soldier,
or when it is actually located by himself or his assignee, and the
land and the State in which it lies thereby for the first time
designated; and never, at any stage of the transaction, receives
into the treasury any money from any person.
The fact that the registers and receivers of the land office,
performing services in locating militar bounty land warrants,

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

are authorized by § 2 of the act of 1852 to demand and receive
for their services, from the assignees or holders of such warrants, the same compensation "to which they are entitled by
law for sales of the public lands for cash, at the rate of one
dollar and twenty-five cents per acre," has no tendency to show
that the United States, under their agreement to pay to the
State five per cent. of the net proceeds of lands sold by Congress, are bound to pay five per cent. on the value of lands
which they have never sold, and for which they have received
no money.
The acts of March 2d, 1855, ch. 139, and March 3d, 1857,
ch. 104, requiring five per cent. to be paid to the States on the
value of lands included in reservations under treaties with
Indian tribes, had reference only to lands reserved to the
Indians by stipulations in such treaties. The fact that the
words "as in case of other sales" are used in speaking of lands
reserved for that purpose, and have never been so applied to
lands disposed of in satisfaction of military land warrants,
appears to us, so far as it has any bearing, to imply an intention to exclude the latter from the class of lands sold, rather
than to include them in this class.
That class of decisions of which United States v. TFat M, 97
U. S.219, is an example, in which, under an act of Congress,
providing that in case lands within territory ceded to the
United States, claimed under grants previously made by foreign
governments and since confirmed, should be sold by the United
States before the confirmation, or could not be surveyed and
located, the claimant should be entitled to so much public land
in lieu thereof, it was held that lands granted by the United
States to settlers thereon were included, rests upon the reasons
that the claimant had been deprived of so much of his private
property by the act of the United States, and that the statutes
inparimateriaused the words "sold or disposed of." Neither
of those reasons is applicable to the cases before us.
The conclusion to which the court is brought, upon a consideration of the language of the statutes relied on, and of the
nature of the subjects to which they refer, accords with the
contemporaneous and uniform construction given to them by

FIVE PER CENT. CASES.
Dissenting Opinion: Miller, Field, JJ.

the executive officers charged with the duty of putting them in
force. If the court had a doubt of the true meaning of their
provisions, this practical construction would be entitled to great
weight. Edwards v. Darby, 12 Wheat. 206; United States v.
State Bank of ITorth Carolina, 6 Pet. 29; United States v.
.Ae.Daniel, 7 Pet. 1; Surgett v. Lapice, 8 row. 48; Smythe v.
Fiske, 23 Wall. 374; United States v. .Moore, 95 U. S. 760;
United States v. Pugh, 99 U. S. j65; Swift Co. v. United
States, 105 U. S. 691, 695.
The petitioners failing to prove any lawful claim against the
United States, it becomes unnecessary to determine the further
question, discussed at the bar, whether the writ of mandamus
is an appropriate remedy in such cases.
Petitiono dismissed.
m

JusTicE 'Ni.nn,

with whom concurred M-.

Jusnm

FD, dissenting.
I do not concur in the judgment of the court in this case, if
that can be called a judgment in which the court, declining to
consider the question of its jurisdiction, decides that if it had
jurisdiction the petitioners make no case for relief.
I doubt very much whether this court has jurisdiction in a
suit by a State to establish an obligation of the United States
to pay to the State a sum of money, by compelling one of the
auditing officers of the United States to state an account under
the direction of the court according to a rule which the court
may prescribe'to him.
I discuss this matter no further, but to observe that if the
court has no such jurisdiction its opinion is of no value beyond
the force of its argument and the weight of character of the
judges who concur in it.
The opinion concedes that the acts of Congress under
which
the States of Illinois and Iowa were admitted into the Union,
and the acceptance of their provisions, are compacts. If any
less sanctity is due to these provisions by calling the matter a
compact instead of a contract it is not perceptible to me. It is
not denied that the State and the United States were capable
of contracting. It is not denied in the opinion that they did

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Miller, Field, JJ.

contract. Taking the case of the State of Iowa, the sixth
section of the act for her admission, 5 Statutes, 789, says that,
in lieu of the propositions submitted to Congress by the convention of the Territory, which are rejected, the following
propositions axe hereby offered to the legislature of the State of
Iowa, which, if accepted, shall be obligatory on the United
States. They were accepted.. The propositions were the result
of a negotiation, of items accepted and others rejected in that
negotiation. It was a fair bargain between competent parties.
The fifth item of this contract is as follows:
" -Ffth.That five per cent. of the net proceeds of sales of all
public lands lying within the said State, which have been or shall
be sold by Congress, from and after the admission of said State,
after deducting all the expenses incident to the same, shall be appropriated for making public roads and canals within the said
State, as the legislature may direct : .Provided, That the five foregoing propositions herein offered are on the condition that the
legislature of the said State, by virtue of the powers conferred
upon it by the convention which framed the Constitution of the
said State, shall provide by an ordinance, irrevocable without the
consent of the United States, that the said State shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the soil within the same by the
United States, nor with any regulations Congress may find neces-

sary for securing the title in such soil to the bona fide purchasers
thereof; and that no tax shall be imposed on lands the property
of the United States, and in no case shall non-resident proprietors
be taxed higher than residents; and that the bountylands granted
or hereafter to be granted for military services during the late
war shall, while they continue to be held by the patentees or
their heirs, remain exempt from any tax laid by order or under the
authority of the State, whether for the State, county, or township,
or any other purpose, for the term of three years from and after
the dates of the patents respectively.
"Approved March 3d, 1845."
The legal expression of this contract is that the State of
Iowa has the right to tax all the lands of the government as
soon as the government sells them. She may have other
rights with regard to the disposal of these lands by the United

FIVE PER CENT. CASES.
Dissenting Opinion: Miller, Field, JJ.

States, as, for instance, in regard to title to aliens or corporations in perpetuity unacceptable to the State.
Now, in consideration that she agrees to make no interference with the primary disposal of the soil or any regulations
of Congress for that purpose, that she will tax no non-resident
in regard to said lands higher than she does residents, that she
will impose no tax on the property of the United States, and
no tax on lands granted for military services for three years
after the dates of the patents, either for State, county or township purposes, there shall be paid to the State five per cent. of
the net proceeds of sales of all public lands lying within the
State which have been or shall be sold by Congress from and
after the admission of the State.
The question raised here is whether the word sWs in this
act of Congress is limited to sales made for money, or whether
lands used in payment for the services of her military and
naval officers and soldiers are sold within the meaning of the
statute.
It seems probable that a false impression has been made by
calling these latter bounties; and it is true that in some cases
where, a'?trthe service has been rendered, Congress has granted
lands as gratuity to the soldier or sailor, it is a bounty, and is
not a sale in fact, or within the meaning of the statute. But the
large body of these land warrants were issued under statutes,
which, in calling the men into service and prescribing their
compensation in advance, declared that for so many months'
service they should, in addition to their monthly cash payment,
receive so many acres of land, according to the length of their
service.
This was as much a part of the pay which the government
agreed to make for his services as the cash payment. And to
show that the government so considered it, a reference to the
acts of 1847, to raise troops for the Mtexican war, under which
the largest part of the sales in Iowa was made, is all that is
necessary.
The 9th section of that act, 9 Stat. 125, authorizes the soldier to receive, at his option, a land warrant for one hundred and sixty acres, to be located on any public lands, or

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Miller, Field, JJ.

treasury scrip for $100; such scrip to be redeemable at the
pleasure of the government, and to bear interest at six per
cent. per annum until paid.
It was also enacted that those land warrants should be
received at the land office in payment of any congressional
subdivision of the public land, at the rate of $1.25 per acre,
the purchaser paying any balance above the value of the land
warrant in cash. 9 Stat. 332.
And still later, it was enacted that a person having a preemption right to a tract of land should be entitled to use any
such land warrant in payment of the same, at the rate of $1.25
per acre.
That they might be thus freely used in the purchase of the
public lands, these warrants were by statute early made assignable, and it may be safely said that for years the largest part
of the public lands sold by the land officers were paid for by
these land warrants.
Blackstone defines a sale to be "a transmutation of property
from one man to another in consideration of some price." 2
Blackstone, 446. And Kent says "a sale is a contract for the
transfer of property from one person to another for valuable
consideration, and three things are requisite to its validity, viz.:
the thing sold, which is the object of the contract, the price,
and the consent of the contracting parties." 2 Kent, 468.
And though there is some controversy whether, in reference to personal property, the consideration is not to be paid
in money, the use of the old phrase "bargain and sale" in
regard to land, never required that the consideration should be
exclusively a money payment. 2 Bouvier's Law Dictionary,
494, clause 6, Sale.
But it surely was never contemplated in this 'compact between a State of the Union and the general government that
if the government could dispose of her public lands, and secure
their full price in other valuable consideration than money,
the State should thus be cheated out of the five per cent. of
that value which she had a right to expect.
The United States made these warrants the equivalent of
money in purchase of these lands by the holders. They gave

FIVE PER CENT. CASES.
Dissenting Opinion: Miller, Field, JJ.

them the equivalent purchasing power of money and the quality
of negotiability, and they gave the soldier the option of a treasury draft or a land warrant when he had rendered the service.
It is the merest quibble to say that where a man purchased
a quarter-section of the public lands with one of these warrants,
the government had not sold him that land at a dollar and a
quarter an acre.
No importance can be attached to the previous construction
of the government. The amount in controversy attracted no
attention until the location of the land warrants for service in
the Mexican war, and the lands in the Territories were not subject to this five per cent. As early as 1858, when the locations
under the Mexican war claims were thickest, Governor Lowe
of Iowa asserted this right in a letter to Mr. Thompson, Secretary of the Interior. This was immediately after the act of
1857, making it the duty of the land commissioner to state
these accounts. The claim has been urged by that State ever
since, except during the disastrou period of the civil war; and
the Senate of the United States passed a law recognizing the
justice of the claim and that of other States, and ordering their
payment, during the last Congress, but, on a motion to reconsider, it was tied up and has not been acted on since.
I entertain no doubt of the legal as well as the moral obligation of the United States to pay to the States concerned the
five per cent, on these sales which they have thus far withheld.
MR. JuSTC FIra

concurs with me in this opinion.

