OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

QUEBEC BANK OF TORONTO v. ELLMAN, Assignee.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF WHE UITE
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

STATES FOR

Argued January 4th, 7th, and 8th, 1884.-Decided January 21st, 164.

.rincipaZ and Agent.
The deposit of a promissory note with the agent of a third party upon condition that it should be used by the agent's principal for a specified purpose,
confers no authority upon the principal to hold the note for a different
purpose.

An act passed by the legislature of the State of Ohio, respecting the administration of assignments by insolvent debtors,
provides as follows:
"Creditors shall present their claims . . .
to the assignee
for allowance, and the assignee shall indorse his allowance or rejection thereon, and claimants whose claims are rejected shall be
required to bring suit against the assignee to enforce such claims,
...
. in which, if he recover, the judgment shall be against
the assignee that he allow the same in the settlement of his trusts ;
Provided,however, That the assignee may make any defence to
such action that the assignor might have made to a suit instituted
against him before the assignment for the same cause of action."

The bill in this case was filed in pursuance of this statute.
It was brought by the appellant, the Quebec Bank of Toronto,
against Max Hellman, assignee of P. Weyand and D. Jung,
partners as Weyand & Tung. The bill alleges an assignment
by Weyand & Jung under the insolvent laws of the State, and
the qualification of the assignee, and that Weyand & Jung, at the
time of the assignment, were indebted to the Quebec Bank of
Toronto upon a promissory note of which the following is a

copy:
"CrcnNATI, February 7th, 1870.
Sixty days after date we promise to pay to the order of George
M Bacon & Co. five thousand dollars at Merchants' Nqational
Bank. Value received.
$5,000.

"P.

WzYAD AND

D. JuNG."

QUEBEC BANK OF TORONTO v. HELLMAN.

179

Opinion of the Court.
The note was indorsed as follows:
"George X. Bacon & Co.
John Hughes."
The bill further alleged that the note was indorsed and delivered to the plaintiff before maturity, for value; that the
plaintiff was the owner thereof ; that a claim based on the note
had been presented to the assignee for allowance against the
estate of Weyand & Jung and disallowed. The prayer of the
bill was that the assignee be required to allow the claim of the
plaintiff for the amount due on said note, to wit, five thousand
dollars, with interest, in the settlement of his trust as assignee
of Weyand & Jung.
Two defences were set up in the answer: first, that the appellant was not the owner of the note; and, second, that the
note was without consideration and void.
Upon final hearing the Circuit Court made a decree dismissing the bill. The plaintiff appealed.
.Xr. Joseph WiThy for appellant.
.Ar. Tn F. Folett for appellee.
Man. JusTICE WooDs delivered the opinion of the court.
The record discloses the following facts: George M. Bacon
& Co. were a firm dealing in barley and other brewers' supplies
in Cincinnati, Ohio.
They purchased barley at Toronto,
Canada, and advanced a part of the price of the barley purchased. When a shipment was made a draft was drawn upon
them by the consignor for the balance remaining unpaid on
the shipment, which was usually a time draft, and accompanied
by a bill of lading for the barley shipped.
On November 10th, 1869, a draft, accompanied by a bill of
lading for 15,000 bushels of barley, was drawn on Bacon & Co.
by Thomas Clarkson & Co., of Toronto, Canada, for the sum of
$6,502.56, payable in gold twenty-five days after date. This
draft was indorsed by Thomas Clarkson & Co., and on presentation to the drawees, Bacon & Co., was accepted by them. Upon
the arrival of the barley in Cincinnati, Bacon & Co. received

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

and disposed of it. Before the draft matured Bacon & Co.
made an arrangement with the appellant, the Quebec Bank of
Toronto, which was the holder of the draft, by which the time
for payment was to be extended forty-five days, on their giving
a note with indorsers, which was to be substituted for the draft.
Bacon & Co. accordingly made their note, dated December
23d, 1869, for $6,616.35, payable in gold forty-five days after
date, to the order of Thomas Clarkson & Co., and indorsed by
John Hughes, which they forwarded to the Quebec Bank
The note was not acceptable to the bank, and was returned by
it to its correspondent and agent at Cincinnati, the Merchants'
National Bank, with the information that Bacon & Co. had
been requested to furnish a new note, properly drawn, with
another indorser besides Hughes.
No such note was made or forwarded by Bacon & Co., and
on February 2d, 1870, the Quebec Bank instructed the Merchants' Bank to demand payment of Bacon & Co. of the draft
accepted by them.
On February Ith, 1870, Bacon & Co. represented to Weyand
& Jung, a firm doing business in Cincinnati, that they were
embarrassed for want of means to pay the debt represented by
the draft of November 10th, 1869, the extended credit on which
was about to expire, and to aid in paying off said claim obtained
from them the note in controversy in this suit, the same being
an accommodation note for which Weyand & Jung received no
consideration.
Bacon & Co. presented this note to the Merchaints' Bank for
discount on. the morning of February 7th, with the purpose of
having it applied to the payment of the claim of the Quebec
Bank. The Merchants' Bank, after submitting the note to its
discount committee at noon that day, refused to accept it, and
it was handed back to Bacon & Co.
So far the facts are not disputed by either party. But here
a controversy arises. The appellant contends that on the afternoon of that day, February 7ith, Bacon & Co. again presented
the note to the Merchants' Bank, which, acting for appellant,
accepted it. The defendant insists that the note never was
delivered to the Merchants' Bank, but that, on February 9th,

QUEBEC BANK OF TORONTO v. HELLMAN.

181

Opinion of the Court.
after Bacon & Co. had made an assignment for the benefit of
their creditors, the cashier of the bank, having induced George
M. Bacon to let him see the note, and thus getting it into his
possession, fraudulently retained possession against the protest
of Bacon & Co.
In the view we take of this case, it is unnecessary to settle
the question whether or not there was a manual delivery of the
note on February 7th. We shall assume that the note was left
by Bacon & Co. with the Merchants' Bank, as agent of the
appellant, on that day.
The purpose for which Bacon & Co. presented the note of
Weyand & Jung to the Merchants' Bank is not left in doubt by
the testimony. It was that the. note or its proceeds might be
credited on the claim against Bacon & Co. held by the appellant, the Quebec Bank of Toronto. They were of opinion that
if they could thus reduce the amount due on the claim they
would be able to raise money enough to pay off the residue,
and thus save their credit and go on with their business. The
note, assuming that it was left with the Merchants' Bank on
February 7th, as claimed by appellant, was taken for the very
purpose which Bacon & Co. had in view. On this point Fallis,
the president of the Merchants' Bank testifies as follows:
"The note was left with us about that time. I told him (George
M. Bacon of Bacon & Co.) it would not be discounted to check
against, but we would take it and credit proceeds on claim of
Quebec Bank, taking said note on account of said claim."
The testimony of Yerguson, the cashier of the Merchants'
Bank, confirms the evidence of Fallis in respect to the terms on
which the bank took the note of Weyand & Jung from Bacon
& Co. If, therefore, there was a manual delivery of the note
to the Merchants' Bank on February 11th, it was on the
condition, as the officers of the bank concede, that either the
note or its proceeds should be credited on the claim of the
Quebec Bank of Toronto.
This condition was not performed. On the contrary, it is
not disputed that the Merchants' Bank, as the agent of appel-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

]ant, after it had got possession of the note of Weyand &
Jung, retained and still retains the draft of November 10th,
1869, for $6,502.56, accepted by Bacon & Co. with the bill
of lading-for 15,000 bushels of barley accompanying it, and
also the note of Geo. M. Bacon & Co., indorsed by Hughes,
for $6,616.35; that no credit whatever was ever indorsed
on either said draft or note; that on February 9th, 1870,
two days after the note of Weyand & Jung had been received by the Merchants' Bank, the note of Bacon & Co.
for $6;616.35 was, at the instance of the Merchants' Bank, protested for non-payment, and on the same day Bacon & Co.
executed a deed of assignment for the benefit of their creditors, for the reason, as they.alleged and testified, that they
were unable to pay said note or draft. On February 25th,
1870, suit was brought by the Quebec Bank of Toronto in
the Superior Court of Cincinnati against Bacon & Co. as
makers, and John Hughes as indorser, on the note above mentioned, for the fall amount thereof, namely, $6,616.35, and interest.
It is clear that the deposit of a promissory note with an
agent of a third party, on the condition that it should be used
by the agent's principal for a specified purpose, will not confer
title so as to authorize the principal to hold the note for a different purpose. Thus in Smith v. Knox, 3 Esp. 46, it was said
by Lord Eldon:
"If a person give a bill for a particular purpose, and that is
known to the party taking the bill, as, for example, to answer a
particular demand, then the party taking the bill cannot apply it
to a different purpose."
See also, Delauny v. Xitokell, 1 Stark. 439 ; Plget de Bras
v. Forbes, 1 Esp. 117; Evans v. Kymer, 1 Barn. & Adol. 528.
Under such circumstances, without the performance of the
condition, there is no delivery in the commercial sense, and no
title passes. The present suit is an attempt by the appellant
to use the note for a purpose not contemplated by either party
when the manual delivery of the note took place. The case
of appellant is not aided by the fact that on March 25th, 1871,

WHITE v. CROW.
Syllabus.

more than a year after Bacon & Co. had failed in business
and made an assignment for the benefit of their creditors,
it amended its petition in the suit brought on the note of
Bacon & Co. for $6,616.35, by averring that the note of
Weyand & Jung was taken as a payment on the note sued
on in that case, and demanding judgment for only $1,616.35,
the balance due after allowing the credit. According to the
version of the appellant's witnesses, the understanding was
that the credit should be made on February 7th, 1870, when
the note of Weyand & Jung was handed to the Merchants'
Bank. By the omission of the Merchants' Bank on that day
to credit the proceeds of the note of Weyand & Jung on the
claim of appellant, Bacon & Co. were deprived of all the advantages, to secure which the note was left with the bank.
The appellant is bound by the acts and omissions of its
agent. Having failed in 1870 to use this note for the only
purpose for which it was placed in the possession of its agent,
it cannot now exact payment thereof as a bona)Fde holder.
Under the circumstances of this case we are of opinion that
there was no delivery of the note of Weyand & Jung to the
appellant, and that no title passed to it. As the controversy is
between the original parties, and the appellant is not an innocent holder, it is not entitled to the relief prayed for in its bill.
The decree of the Circuit Court by which the bill was dismissed was therefore right, and must be

WHITE v. CROW & Others.
"PPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
Submitted January 4th, 1884.-Decided January218, 1884.

Colorado-Eecution-Tudgment-Pedemption.
When, in Colorado, the agent of an absent defendant, upon whom process had

been duly served, appeared and consented to the entry of a judgment
against the defendant before the time for filing answer had expsired, and no

