CONRO v. CRANE.
Syllabus.

court when needed for any purpose in the progress of the cause.
The fee is for the service specified in this item of the table, and
is indivisible. Consequently, if the clerk performs any part of
the service he is entitled to collect the whole fee; and if the
printed record is used at all, it must be examined by him
to see if it conforms to the copy certified below and on file as
the transcript of the record. So that if the printed copies are
used for any purpose in the progress of the cause the whole fee
is chargeable. As the law now stands the fees and emoluments of the office belong to the.governnment, subject only to
the payment of the annual salary of the clerk, necessary clerk
hire, and incidental expenses, and the clerk is the collecting
agent for the government.
As this record has been printed the case may be docketed
without security for this fee, but the printed copies cannot be
delivered to the justices or the parties for use on the final
hearing or on any motion in the progress of the cause unless
the fee is paid when demanded by the clerk in time to enable
him to make his examinations and perform his other duties in
connection with the copies.
Rule 31 relates only to the form and size of the printed
records,' briefs, and arguments, and has nothing to do with the
fee now in question.

COh RO & Another v. CRANE & Another.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF JLLINOIS.
Argued January 24th, 25th, 1884.-Decided March 3d, 1884.

Bankruptcy-Mae.
Property was sold to H, by order of a court of bankruptcy. He not paying
for it, the court, without notice to him, vacated the order of sale, and
made an order selling it to C, who paid for it, and went into possession of
it. Afterwards, on review, the sale to C was set aside, and the sale to H
reinstated. H, having paid for the property, received possession of it,
and afterwards the money paid by C was repaid to him: Held, that C was
not liable to payto H the profits derived by him from the use of the property while he had it.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

On the 5th of June, 1875, Harry Fox and William B. Howard, co-partners as Fox & Howard, were adjudged bankrupts,
on the petition of their creditors, by the District Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Illinois. On the
16th of June, Bradford Hancock was appointed by that court
provisional assignee. He took possession of the property hereinafter mentioned, and, on his petition, the court made an
.order, on June 19th, directing him to advertise for sealed bids
for the purchase of the property, either as a whole or in parcels,
the bids to be opened by the judge of the court on July 1st.
The property consisted of tug-boats, dredges, pile-drivers, and
scows, and articles used in connection therewith. On July 2d
the assignee reported to the court a bid of $40,000 by Jefferson
Hodgkins, for certain of the property, and recommended its
act qptance. On July 9th the court made an order approving
of and confirming the sale, and directing the assignee, on the
receipt of the $40,000, to execute to Hodgkins all transfers
necessary to vest in him the title of the bankrupits to the property, and to deliver to him the immediate possession thereof,
and to pay the $40,000 into court. On the 12th of July, the
assignee presented to the court a sworn petition, setting forth
that he had repeatedly called on Hodgkins to pay over to him
the purchase-money, and had on July 10th presented to Hodgins a certified copy of the order confirming the sale and demanded payment of the $40,000, or a deposit on account thereof,
and offered delivery of the property on payment; that Hodgkins had neither paid nor deposited anything; that Conro &
Carkin (a firm composed of Albert Conro and Wiflard S. Carkin)
had made a bid of $40,500 for the same property, agreeing to
assume certain charges; and that he believed it to be for the
best interest of the estate that the order confirming the sale
to Hodgkins should be set aside, and that the property be sold
to Conro & Carkin. On the same day the court made an order
exi)arte, setting aside the order of sale to Hodgkins, annulling
such sale, accepting the bid of Conro & Carkin, and directing
that the property included in the bid of Hodgkins be sold to
Conro & Carkin for $40,500, on the terms of their bid, and that
the assignee deliver the property to them, with proper bills of

CONRO v. CRANE.
Statement of

Facts.

sale, on their paying to him the $40,500. On the same day
Conro & Carkin paid to the assignee the $40,500, and he delivered to them a bill of sale of the property and put the property into their possession.
On the 10th of August Hodgkins filed in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois a
petition for the review of the order made by the District Court
on July 12th. That petition alleged that Charles S. Crane was
the principal in the Hodgkins bid. On the 13th of August, the
Circuit Court, on a hearing on the petition of review, made an
order stating that it was of opinion that the District Court
should not have made the order of July 12th without giving
Hodgkins or Crane an opportunity to be heard, and directing
the District Court to open and set aside that order, and give
Hodgkins or Crane an opportunity to be heard on the application to set aside or vacate the order of July 9th, and that in
the meantime and until the action of the District Court thereon
nothing should be done in relation to the property, by any of
the parties, prejudicial to the rights of Hodgkins or Crane.
On the 18th of August, Hodgkins and Crane filed their joint
petition in the District Court, praying that the order of July
12th be set aside; that the property be delivered to them; and
that Conro & Carkin, the bankrupts, and the assignee pay to
them the value of the use of the property from July 12th:
The petition alleged that the bid of Hodgkins was made on
behalf of and by the direction of Crane, and that the assignee
and Conro & Carkin had acted in bad faith. Hancock had
been duly appointed assignee- in bankruptcy, and he and
Conro & Carkin and the bankrupts were made parties to
the proceedings, by a rule to show cause. The assignee answered the petition on the 27th of August. Under an order of
the district judge the petitioners paid into the District Court,
on the 6th of September, the sum of $40,000. On the 13th of
September, Conro & Carkin filed a joint answer to the petition. Testimony was taken before a register on the issues
raised. The matter was heard by the District Court on the
4th of November, and on the 6th of March, 1876, it made ait
order dismissing the petition on the merits. On the same day

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

Crane and Hodgkins filed in the Circuit Court a petition of review, praying for a reversal of the action of the District Court.

On the 10th of April, the Circuit Court made an order reversing and setting aside the orders made by the District Court
July 12th, 1875, and MRfarch 6th, 1876, and confirming its own
order of August 13th, 1885. On the 24:th of April, the Circuit Court made a further order vacating the order made by
the District Court July 12th, 1875, and decreeing that the order
made by the District Court July 9th, 1875, remain in full force
and effect as originally made, and then proceeding as follows:
"1And it appearing that the sum of forty thousand dollars has
been paid into the District Court on the sale confirmed to the
said Hodgkins on the ninth day of July, A. D. eighteen hundred and
seventy-five, and this court being of opinion that upon the payment of the purchase money by the said Hodgkins the order of
the ninth day of July aforesaid vested in him from that date all
the right, title, and interest of the bankrupts in the property, the
District Court is hereby directed to order the assignee to execute
and deliver to the said Hodgkins the necessary papers to show
the title in the said property, and to cause the assignee to deliver the said property to the said Hodgkins or to the said Crane.
And the District Court is hereby directed and required to make
all needful rules and orders, summary or otherwise, to carry into
effect the said confirmatory order of July ninth, A. D. eighteen
hundred and seventy-five. And the District Court is directed to
return, subject to the conditions hereinafter stated, to the said
Conro & Carkin, the sum of forty thousand five hundred dollars, the amount of purchase money paid by them, the sale to
them being hereby annulled and set aside.

.

.

.

And there

being a question raised as to the rights of the parties growing out
of the possession for a time of the property by Conro & Carkin,
and of certain moneys paid by them for claims thereon, expenses,
improvements, and repairs, as well as the profits, it is ordered
that the said Conro and Carkin, or the assignee, or the said Crane
and Iodgkins, or either of them, may have the right.to file a
bill or to commence other legal proceedings in any court having
jurisdiction thereof, as they may be advised, to determine the
rights or equities of the parties. And the District Court, may, on

CONRO v. CRANE.
Statement of Facts.

the application for that purpose, retain any part of the money
now in the District Court and belonging to Conro & Carlin, or
require security, before the said money is paid to them, from the
said Conro & Carkin, to answer for any claim due from them,
growing out of the possession and use of the property, to any
party or parties entitled thereto."
Conro & Carkin and the assignee took an appeal, May
3d, 1876, to this court, from that order. On the 5th of May,
1876, Crane and Hodgkins obtained possession of nearly all the
property in question by means of a writ of replevin issued from
a court of the State of Illinois, and on the 9thof May, 1877,
they obtained possession of a pile-driver, a part of the property.
The case in this court was docketed here, but was, on motion of the appellees, dismissed for want of jurisdiction, on
March 19th, 1877. Conro v. Crane, 94 U. S. 441. On the
24th of May, 1877, the District Court made an order that Conro
& Carkin have leave to withdraw the $40,500 on their giving
a bond in the penalty of $30,000, which they gave, with
three sureties, conditioned that they would appear without delay to any suit or bill which might be brought against them,
by any person concerned, touching the premises, and would
pay all claims due from them to any parties entitled thereto,
growing out of the use of the property in question. On the
same day the $40,500 was- paid back to them and the bill in
this suit was filed by Crane and Hodgkins, in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois,
against Conro & Carkin and the assignee.
The bill sets forth the foregoing matters and charges fraud
and conspiracy, and alleges that Conro & Carkin derived
profits from the use of the property and were the constructive
trustees of the plaintiffs in using it, and prays for an account
of such profits, and of the expenses incurred in using the property, and of the fair rental value of the property, and of the
value of its use, and of the expenses of the plaintiffs in defending their title and obtaining possession of the property, and
for a decree against the defendants therefor. The defendants
answered the bill, and there were replications to the answers.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

The proofs so taken before the register in bankruptcy were
used in evidence, and further proofs were taken on both sides.
An order of reference to a master was made in June, 1879,
under which, after taking further evidence, he reported as to
the rental value of the property from July 12th, 1875, during
the time Conro & Carkin had it, and as to the amount of
profits they derived from it while they had it, and also as to
what they paid for repairs on it, and as to what Crane and
Hodgkins had paid for fees and exppnses in recovering or defending the title to the property in the previous litigations.
The appellants and the appellees excepted to the report, and
the court made a final decree which contained *the following

provisions:
"That the said defendants Albert Conro and Willard S. Carkin
be held to account for the reasonable value of the use of said
property in the pleadings described, while the same was withheld
from the possession of the said complainants by the defendants
Conro & Carkin, which value, in the judgment of the 'court, is,
in this case, equal to the net profits realized by them from the use
of said property other than pile-driver No. 6, from July 12, 1875,
to May 5, 1876, being, as the master reports, the sum of fourteen
thousand six hundred and ninety-three dollars and seventy-nine
cents (814,693.79), the report of the said master in that behalf
being hereby confirmed ; and that the said complainants ought to
have and recover of the said Albert Conro and Willard S. Carkin
the said last mentioned sum, with interest thereon at the rate of
6 per cent. per annum from May 5, 1876 ; and also that the said
complainants are entitled to a decree against the said Albert

Conro and Willard S. Carkin for the further sum of three hundred dollars ($3 00) for the use of pile-driver No. 6, with like
interest from the 9th day of May, 1877 ; and that the said complainants ought to have and recover of the said Albert Conro and
WVillard S. Carkin the said last mentioned sum with interest as
aforesaid. And it further appearing to the court that the said
two sums of money and interest thereon as aforesaid amount, at
the date of the entry of this decree, to the sum of eighteen thousand and seventy dollars ($18,o70.oo), it is thereupon further
ordered, adjudged, and decreed by the court, that the said com-

CONRO v. CRANE.
Opinion of the CourL
plainants do have and recover of the said defendants Albert Conro
and Willard S. Carkin the said last mentioned sum of eighteen
thousand and seventy dollars, besides the costs of this suit, to be
taxed."
From that decree Conro & Carkin appealed to this court.
.Ifr..ZymanTmmtmbull for appellants.
-Mr.John S. Cooper for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
He recited the facts in the foregoing language and continued: It is contended by the appellants that the Circuit Court
had no jurisdiction of this suit because the assignee was a citizen of the same State with the plaintiffs. But no relief was
granted against him by the final decree, and, although the suit
was not formally dismissed as to him, it is evident that he was
treated throughout as only a formal party. There was jurisdiction by citizenship as to the other parties, and the real controversy was between them. The record does not show that
the appellants raised this question in the Circuit Court. Under
these circumstances, it is not proper to allow the jurisdiction
between the real parties to be now challenged on this ground.
It is also contended that the remedy of the appellees was at
law and not in equity. Waiving the consideration of this
question, we prefer to dispose of the case on its merits.
We are unable to perceive any relation of trust between the
appellants and the appellees. The former were clothed with
no fiduciary character as respects the latter, by reason of any
relation existing between them prior to the making by the
appellants of their bid, nor did the holding of the property by
the appellants create such relation. The appellants received
the property and paid their $40,500 under the sanction of an
order of the court, which not only authorized the sale to them
but set aside the order of sale to Hodgkins and annulled such
sale. They purchased at a judicial sale, and received the prop.erty from the hands of the court. The court made the second
order of sale without notice to Hodgkins or Crane. That was

410

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion oi the Court.

held to be erroneous. On a hearing, the District Court maintained the propriety of the order. On review, the decision was
reversed, and the Circuit Court, being of opinion that, on the
payment by Hodgkins of the purchase-money, the original
order of sale to him vested in him, from July 9th, 1875, all the
right, title, and interest of the bankrupts in the property,
directed that the District Court order the assignee to deliver
to Hlodgkins the necessary title papers of the property, and
cause the assignee to deliver the property to Hodgkins or
Crane. It also directed the District Court to return to Conro
& Carkin their $40,500, the order saying, "the sale to them
being hereby annulled and set aside." The order did not
conclude or determine anything as to any liability of the appellants to any one for profits or rent or value of use of the
property. On the contrary, it gave to all parties, the appellants, or the appellees, or the assignee, the right to institute
legal proceedings in any compete nt court to determine the
rights or equities of the parties growing out of the possession
of the property by the appellants, and out of their having
paid moneys for claims, expenses, improvements, and repairs
thereon, and out of the profits, as to all of which matters it
stated a question was raised. The declaration in the order of
the Circuit Court, that Hodgkins, having paid his $40,000, was
vested, by the order of July 9th, 1875, from that date, with the
title of the bankrupts to the property, did not confer on Hodgkins or the appellees the right to collect rent, or value or profits
of use, from the appellants, for the time they had the property.
Nor did the provision of the order in regard to the retention
by the District Court of part of the money paid by the appellants, or the giving of security by them, have that effect. The
question of their liability depended on many other considerations.
There was no privity of contract between .the appellees and
the appellants. The latter held the property adversely to the
former for 8 months and 29 days, and all the time under the
authority of an order of the District Court. The appellees recovered possession of nearly all of the property 25 days after
the order of the Circuit Court was male. The appellants were

CONRO v. CRANE.
Opinion of the Court.

deprived of the use of their $40,500 from July 12th, 1875, to
-Way24th, 1877, a period extending beyond the time during
which they held any of the property, and the money was returned to them only on their giving a bond with three sureties.
The appellees succeeded to the title of the bankrupt and the assignee to the property from July 9th, 1875, according to the
order of the Circuit Court, but they could have no greater
rights in respect to recovering from the appellants for the use
of the property after that date than the assignee could havd,
because they held under him and derived all their rights from
him; and he could have none so long as he withheld the $40,500 from the appellants. He could not keep the money and
still have rent for the property. That would be to keep the
money and virtually the property too, by recovering for the
use of the latter. The legal presumption is that the appellants
could, by the use of the money, have procured like property,
and made out of it the profits decreed against them.
The rights in question which the appellants acquired by the
judicial sale are to be protected so long as the order of sale was
in force. Moreover, during the entire period, after the order
was reversed as well as before, the court and the assignee retained the money of the appellants. Thetitleof the appellants
to the property and their right to keep it as purchasers were,
undoubtedly, subject to the result of the litigation had. But a
rescission of the sale and the destruction of their title involved,
as a necessary element, the return to them of their money, so
far certainly as any claim for rent or profits was concerned.
We do not think it necessary to refer to the voluminous
testimony adduced on the question of bad faith and fraud.
We see Ao sufficient evidence to impeach the good faith of
the appellants, nor do we understand from the opinion of
the Circuit Court on the review in bankruptcy, that that
court questioned their good faith or fair dealing, whatever
views it expressed as to the conduct of the assignee.
The present case has no resemblance to one in which a purchaser has been held entitled to a rebate or allowance from the
purchase money of land, for occupation or rent while kept out
of possession by a plaintiff, on a sale made by the court in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

suit, and for expenses of obtaining possession. Thomas v. Burtoii, L. R. 8 Eq. 120. If the appellees might have been entitled
to a deduction from the amount of their bid because of the
action of the assignee, the bankrupt estate could not reimburse
itself for its loss from such action by making the appellants responsible for it.
Nor does the doctrine applied to a purchaser who buys land
with notice of a prior equitable estate apply to the appellants.
The District Court vacated the prior sale by the same order
which accepted the bid of the appellants, and the order referred
to the petition of the assignee, which set forth that Hodgkins
had not paid his bid, and there was annexed to the petition
a copy of the bid of the appellants, which stated that they
made it understanding that Hodgkins had not complied with
his proposition. As to the appellants there was, at the time
they paid their money, no outstanding contract with or sale to
Hodgkins by the assignee. 1or is there any analogy between
this case and one of liability by a grantee in a voluntary conveyance held void as made in fraud of creditors, for rents and
profits from the property.
The appellees cite the case of Raun v. ReynoZds, 15 Cal. 460.
The history of that case, gathered from the above report, and
from 11 Cal. 14, and 18 Cal. 275, and .1?eyno s v. Har-is, 14
Cal. 667, shows that a decree foreclosing two mortgages on
land had directed that two different parcels, one covered by
one of the mortgages and the other by the other, should be sold
together, although one parcel was owned by one mortgagor,
and the other by him and another person jointly, as mortgagors, such other person being merely a surety. The property
was sold under the decree, at auction, by the sherifl, the two
parcels being sold together to the plaintiff. He then sold and
assigned the decree, and his rights as purchaser, and the sheriff's
certificate of sale, to one Harris. After that the defendants appealed from the decree. The decree was reversed for error in
the above directions as to the sale. The time for redemption
from the sale having expired without any redemption, Harris
obtained possession of the property by a writ of assistance. On
an application by the defendants to have the sale set aside and

CONRO v. CRANE.
Opinion of the Court

to be restored to possession, it was held that the plaintiff could
obtain no advantage by a purchase under his own erroneous
judgment; that Harris was not within the protection of an innocent purchaser without notice; and that he took the plaintiff's claim subject to the defendant's right of appeal and reversal, and occupied .the plaintiff's position, with all his rights,
as well in the decree and the dbt as in the purchase, the
decree being unaffected by any payment resulting from the
sale. The application of the defendants was granted, and they
were restored to possession. A question then arose as to the
rents and profits while they were out of possession. Under the
foregoing views and as the mortgage still remained valid, to be
enforced by Harris, under the decree, the court held that Harris must be treated as a mortgagee in possession, and was bound
to credit on the mortgage the amount he had received out of
the property. This case is wholly unlike the one before us and
affords no support to the claim of the appellees. If anything
it goes to show that the appellees might properly have claimed
that the assignee should credit on their purchase money the rents
and profits of the property during the time they were kept out of
its possession by the action of the' assignee, which was in the
end held to have been unlawful. The case of Luptan v. Almy,
4 Wis. 242, was a similar one, of a purchaser who owned the
decree at the time of the sale, and took possession of the property after the sale had been set aside, and was treated as a
mortgagee in possession, and held liable for rents and profits.
e dcree of the Circuit Court mustd be reversed and the case
be remanded to that court, with direction to dismiss the ill.

