UNITED STATES v. ALEXANDER.
Statement of Facts.

is to attempt to foresee every exigency and to provide against
every contingency that may arise to affect thepublic necessities.
Because the judgment orders the payment to the relator of
the sum of ten thousand dollars, annually, out of the seventenths of the levy of one per cent., it is reversed with costs in
this court;
And the cause i8 remanded, witA direction to nter a judgment in conformity witkb tis opinion.

UNITED STATES v. ALEXANDER & Others.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
Argued January W2d,1884.-Decided February 4th, 1884.

Intera2 .Revenue.

'The Secretary of the Treasury, under authority derived from the act of May
27th, 1872, 17 Stat. 162, abated taxes on spirit in a bonded warehouse

destroyed by fire. The commissioner of internal revenue notified the
principal and sureties of the distillery warehouse bond of this decision:
H 'l, That this was a virtual cancellation of the bond.

This was an action at law brought on a distillery warehouse
bond against William S. Alexander and James H. Reynolds,
principals, and Edward S. Allen and Mfahlon C. Atkinson, their
sureties.
The defendants pleadMd that the taxes, to recover which the
suit was brought, had been abated by the Secretary of the
Treasury, pursuant to law, by an order of which the following
is a copy:
"TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
"WAsmnGTox, D. C., Aug. 5, 1875.

"Under authority conferred by act of Congress approved May
27, 1872, I hereby abate the taxes accruing on 8,252 gallons of
spirits, amounting to $5,776.46, which were destroyed by fire ont
the 6th or 7th day of March, 1875, while in the bonded warehouse

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

of Messrs. Alexander and Reynolds, distillers in the 4th collection
district of Tennessee.
"C. F. BunxARz,
"1Acting Becretay.
"To the Commissioner of Internal Revenue."
And that the same was delivered to the defendants by the
commissioner of internal revenue, and the Secretary of the
Treasury did thereby release and free the defendants from their
liability in the premises.
To this plea the plaintiffs replied that on October 13th, 1875,
the Secretary of the Treasury did withdraw the said order of
abatement and remission dated August 5th, 1875, as pleaded.
Upon this issue the case was tried. It appears from the bill
of exceptions that the defendants, to sustain their defence, introduced proof tending to show the abatement of the taxes for
which the warehouse bond sued on was given, as set out in
their plea; that notice of the abatement was given to the commissioner of internal revenue, who gave notice thereof to one
Bryant, the collector of internal revenue, with directions to
take credit therefor on his bonded account as such collector,
which he did; and that he gave notice of the remission of the
taxes to Alexander & Reynolds, the principals on the bond;
and that they had accepted the abatement and release, and had
sent to their sureties on the bond copies of the order of abatement.
Thereupon the plaintiffs introduced evidence tending to show
that on October 13th, 1875, the Secretary of the Treasury
withdrew the abatement of the taxes by the following order:
"1TREASunY D)PAnTmENT,

"WASHNGTON, D. C., October 23, 1875.
"SiR: In the matter of Alexander & Reynolds, for abatement
of taxes accruing on 8,252. gallons of spirits, amounting to 85,776.46, which were destroyed by fire on the 6th or 7th of March,
1875, while in the bonded warehouse of said firm, in the 4th collection district of Tennessee, in view of the papers now on file in
the case, the order for abatement of said taxes, dated August 5,

UNITED STATES v. ALEXANDER.
Opinion of the Court.
1875, is hereby withdrawn until a further consideration of said
claim can be'had.
"Very respectfully,
"B: IL BRisTow, Secretary.
"Hon. D. D. PnATT,
" Commissioner of InternalR:evenue."

There is no proof in the record that this order withdrawing
the abatement of the taxes ever came to the knowledge of the
obligors upon the bond until it was produced on the trial.

Upon this evidence the court charged the jury as follows:
"If you believe from the evidence that on the 5th day of
August, 1875, the Secretary of the Treasury abated said taxes,
and notified the commissioner of internal revenue thereof, and he
notified the collector, and he notified the defendants, the action of
the acting Secretary of the Treasury so taken was final, and any
attempted suspension oi withdrawal thereof would be invalid, and
it would be your duty to find for the defendants."

To this charge the plaintiffs excepted.

The jury returned a

verdict for defendants, and a writ of error sued out by the
plaintiffs brought up the case for review.
-fY.

Assistant Aforney-General

faury for plaintiff in error.

1No appearance for defendants in error.
JusTicE WooDs delivered the opinion of the court.
The act of May 27th, 1872, 17 Stat. 162, under authority of

M

which the abatement of taxes pleaded by defendants was made,
provides as follows:
"That the Secretary of the Treasury be, and he is hereby,
authorized, upon the production of satisfactory proof to him of the
actual destruction by accidental fire or other casualty, and without
any fraud, collusion, or negligence of the owner thereof, of any
distilled spirits on which the tax, at the time of the destruction of
said spirits, had not been piaid, and while the same remained in
the custody of any officer of internal revenue, in any distillery,
warehouse, or bonded warehouse of the United States, to abate,

OCTOBER TER1, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.
the amount of internal revenue taxes accruing thereon, and to
cancel any warehouse bond, or enter satisfaction thereon in whole
or in part, as the case may be."
We are of opinion that the action of the Secretary of the
Treasury shown by the bill of exceptions was a virtual cancellation of the bond sued on in this case.
It is clear that after the Secretary had abated the taxes, and
had given notice thereof to the collector of internal revenue,
with directions to take credit therefor in his accounts, which he
had done, and official notice of the abatement had been given
to the principals upon the warehouse distillers' bond, and they
had given notice to their sureties, no suit could be maintained
upon the bond. Its obligation was gone, and both the principals and sureties were discharged.
The question is, therefore, whether the obligation of the
bond could be restored by an order of the Secretary of the
Treasury, not communicated to the makers, revoking the
abatement. It may be conceded, and we think that the Secretary of the Treasury might, on new evidence or further consideration, reimpose the taxes. But his reassessment would
only subject the spirits and the distiller to a liability for their
payment; it could not restore the obligation of the distillers'
bond.
If we yield to the contention of the appellants in this case,
we must hold that the Secretary of the Treasury may, at his
discretion and at any time, subject the obligors, both principals
and sureties, upon a bond, which had once been discharged, to
a new liability, by an order of which they had no notice. It
may be fairly presumed that sureties take indemnity from their
principals. We cannot hold that after they have had notice
of the discharge of the bond on which they were sureties, and
when their relations to their principals may have entirely
changed, and their indemnity been surrendered, it is within the
power of the Secretary of the Treasury, without notice to them,
to revive the bond and reimpose its obligation upon them. We
do not think that the statute which authorizes the abatement
of taxes and the cancellation of the bond gives authority to the

UNITED STATES v. ALEXANDER.
Opinion of the Court.

Secretary of the Treasury to retry the question of abatement
so as to keep alive the liability of the obligors upon the bond
after the taxes have once been abated and they have received
notice thereof.
The only ground upon which the liability of the defendants
in error can be maintained is that the abatement of the taxes
and the cancellation of the bond were conditional and subject
to the power of the Secretary to retry the question whether
the spirits had been destroyed without the fraud, collusion, or
negligence of the owner. We find no warrant in its language
for such a construction of the statute. If the power had been
given some terms or limit of time would have been imposed on
its exercise. If it exists no restraint is imposed upon it. It
may be exercised at any time, no matter how remote, without
notice to the makers of the bond, and at the discretion or
caprice of the Secretary for the time being. We do not think
that any such unlimited power is conferred by the statute.
The Secretary, having once decided the question of abatement,
his authority was exhausted, so far as it concerned the tax
secured by the bond.
In the case of [The Ioy Aec tanoes, It Wall. 666, it was
held by this court that, under our system of government, the
powers and duties of all its officers are limited and defined
either by statutory or constitutional law. Applying this rule
to the present case, we are unable to find in the statute any
authority for the action of the Secretary of the Treasury in
revoking the abatement of taxes once made by him, and must
conclude that the authority does not exist. He might re-assess
the tax, but the bond given for the tax which had been abated
would not be security for the re-assessed tax. As this view
was substantially embodied in the charge to the jury of the
Circuit Court, which is assigned for error, we are of opinion
that the charge was right, and that
The judgment mudt be afflrmed.

