OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

having been once duly made, and never abandoned or intended
to be abandoned, and not needing a continuance of actual possession by the marshal to maintain them, had not been defeated
by any extrinsic facts. And the court, upon motion and hearing, determined that the levies continued in force, and ordered
writs of venditioni exponas to issue.
The marshal was prevented from taking possession of and
selling the property under those writs by the fact of its being
in possession of the officer of the State court, under the attachment issued in the present suit to enforce the mechanic's lien.
But by the removal of this suit into the Circuit Court of the
United States all danger of conflict between the federal process and State process was avoided; and the Circuit Court,
having all the parties and all the processes before it, rightly
held that the levies of the executions upon the judgments at
law continued in force, and gave the judgment creditor a
priority over the grantee of the judgment debtor.
.Decree afi nd

XAMS, Administratrix, v. HICKS.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGUSIA.
Submitted January 4th, 184.--Decided January 28th, 1884.
Interan Revenue-Limitation,-Sattes--Tx.
1. An action to recover back a tax illegally exacted, when the commissioner of
internal revenue, on appeal, delays his decision more than six months
from date of the appeal, may be brought within twelve months from that
date, whether a decision shall then have been made or not ; or the claimant may wait for the decision, and bring his action at any time within
six months thereafter.
2. An appeal to the commissioner of internal revenue against a tax alleged
to have been illegally exacted being rejected by him for informality in
the preparation of the papers, a second appeal was taken within the
proper period, aid rejected: ed, That, in fixing a date when a suit to
recover back the tax alleged to have been illegally exacted would be
barred by the statute of limitations, the second appeal was the one contemplated by the statute.

JAMES v. HICKS.
Statement of Facts.

This action was brought by Hicks, the defendant in error, on
August 15th, 1879, to recover $3,292.95 for taxes alleged to have
been illegally exacted by the intestate as collector of internal
revenue on October 31st, 1865. The only question made was
that the suit was not brought within the time allowed by law.
The plaintiff, in his declaration, alleged that he appealed to
the commissioner of internal revenue to refund the tax illegally
collected, and that his appeal was rejected by the commissioner
on January 22d, 1879. To this declaration the defendant
pleaded that the appeal to the commissioner to refund the
money exacted was filed in his oice on February 8th, 1866,
and was rejected on May 7th, 1866. To this the plaintiff replied that the appeal referred to in the plea was not duly made,
and that it was not rejected on its merits, but because it had
not been made and certified on proper forms as required by the
treasury regulations; and that afterwards, on January 8th,
1868, he made an appeal in due form, which was entertained by
the commissioner, and finally decided and rejected on January
22d, 1879. The finding of fact on this issue by the court was
as follows:
1"The issues in fact being tried and determined by the court
in this cause upon a stipulation in writing by the parties through
their respective counsel, filed under section 649 Revised Statutes
of the United States, the court find the facts as proved, under the
special plea of the statute of limitations, to be that the suit was
brought within six months after the final rejection of the plaintiff's
appeal made to the commissioner of internal revenue at Washington, the same having been pending before the commissioner from
the time the appeal was perfected on Form 46, according to the
provisions of law and the regulations of the Secretary of the

Treasury made in pursuance thereof. It is further found that the
delay in the consideration of the appeal by the commissioner after
its perfection on Form 46 and the signature of the proper officers
required by law was occasioned by the loss of the original papers
filed with the department by the plaintiff or his attorney and required by law to be kept there."
Judgment was rendered in favor of the plaintiff below,
to reverse which a writ of error was brought.
vo. ox-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

.Mr. Soicitor-Genera2for plaintiff in error.
k. TW. P. BumweU for defendant in error.
Me. JusTiE ATTHEws delivered the opinion of the court.
After stating the facts in the above language, he continued:
It is alleged as error, in the first place, that the court should
have treated the appeal rejected for informality as the basis
for determining the time within which the suit ought to have
been brought. But that appeal was not so treated by the commissioner, who rejected it for mere informality and entertained
the subsequent appeal, made in proper form, as rightly prosecuted. The latter, in our opinion, was the appeal contemplated
by the statute.
It is further insisted, however, that treating the appeal of
January 8th, 1868, as the only one to be considered, the action
was barred by lapse of time.
Section 19 of the act of July 13th, 1866, ch. 184, 14 Stat.
152, is:
"That no suit shall be maintained in any court for the recovery
of any tax alleged to have been erroneously or illegally assessed
or collected until appeal shall have been duly made to the commissioner of internal revenue according to the provisions of law in
that regard, and the regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury established in pursuance thereof, and a decision of said commissioner shall be had thereon, unless such suit shall be brought
within six months from the time of said decision, or within six
months from the time this act takes effect: -Provided,That if said
decision shall be delayed more than six months from the date of
such appeal, then said suit may be brought at any time within
twelve months from the date of such appeal."

ยง 3227 Rev. Stat., which was first adopted in the act of
June 6th, 1872, provides that:
"1 o suit or proceeding for the recovery of any internal tax
alleged to have been erroneously or illegally assessed or collected,
or of any penalty alleged to have been collected without authority, or of any sum alleged to have been excessive or in any manner wrongfully collected, shall be maintained in any court unless
the same is brought within two years next after the cause of ac-

JAMES v. HICKS.
Opinion of the Court.
tion accrued: Provided, That actions for such claims which accrued prior to June six, eighteen hundred and seventy-two, may
be brought within one year from said date; and that where any
such claim was pending before the commissioner, as provided in
the preceding section, an action thereon may be brought within
one year after such decision and not after. But no right of action which was already barred by any statute on the said date
shall be revived by this section."
It is argued now, by the Solicitor-General, that the action
was barred by the act of 1866, because not brought within
twelve months from the date of the appeal The terms of that
act require, as conditions precedent to the right to bring any
such suit, first, an appeal to the commissioner of internal revenue; second, a decision thereon by him; and not then unless
it shall be brought within six months after such decision, or
within that time after the act takes effect. The proviso is, that
if the decision is delayed more than six months from the date
of the appeal, the suit may be brought at any time within
twelve months from the date of such appeal, that is, although
no decision may have, in the meantime, been made. Such was
the construction of similar provisions in ยง 2931 Rev. Stat.,
adopted in Armon v. -Yurphy, 109 U. S. 238. The plaintiff
is not bound to sue until a decision on the appeal has actually
been made, but must sue within six months thereafter. If he
does not choose to wait for a decision, he may nevertheless
bring suit before it is made if it is delayed more than six
months from the date of the appeal, provided, however, in that
case, he sues within twelve months from the date of the appeal.
In the present case, the plaintiff chose to wait, as he had the
right to do, until a decision upon his appeal had been made.
It had not been made on June 6th, 1872, when the act of that
date took effect, being ยง 3227 Rev. Stat. The claim, therefore, was pending before the commissioner at that time. It
continued to be so until January 22d, 1879, when it was decided. By the terms of ยง 3227, he had one year after that
decision within which to bring his suit, which he did.
The judgment of the Circuit Court was, therefore, right, and
is accordingly
Afined.

