BEAN v. PATTERSON.
Syllabus.

of New Jersey, on the 11th of July, 1866, and that Ruckman
sued out a writ of error from this court, gave bond and had
citation signed, but never docketed the case here. iRuckman
died on the 5th of November, 1882, and Demarest in the summer of 1883.
Upon these facts it is clear that the writ of error had become
inoperative for want of prosecution long before it abated by
the death of the parties. Grigsby v. Purcell, 99 U. S. 505, and
cases there cited. The exact date when the writ was sued out
is not stated, but if it had been delayed until five years after
the judgment, there was no time within ten years before the
death of Ruckman that he would have been allowed to docket
the case in this court, since that could only be done during the
term to which the writ was returnable. It seems to us proper,
therefore, to declare the suit abated by the death of the parties,
and leave the representatives of those in interest to proceed
accordingly. An order to that effect may be entered.

BEAN & Another v. PATTERSON & Another.
APPEAL FROMt THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE -U WE

STATES FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Submitted January 28th, 1834.-Delded February 4th, 1884.

Fees-Pracice.
When a party has printed the transcript of the record at his own expense, the
case may be docketed without security for the fee allowed the clerk by Rule
24, ยง 7: but the printed copies cannot be delivered to the justice or the parties for use on final hearing or on any motion in the progress of the cause
unless the fee is paid when demanded by the clerk in time to enable him to
make his examinations and perform his other duties in connection with the
copies.

Notion for leave to docket an appeal, without security for
payment of fees for printing.

.Mr. Jazm S. BoMford for the motion.
No counsel opposing.
voL. Cx-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.
M CHIEF JUSTICE WA=T delivered the opinion of the court.
In this case the appellants have delivered to the clerk the
requisite number of copies of the record in print, and they ask
to docket the cause without securing the payment of the fee
chargeable under the present rules in connection with the
printing.
The act of March 3, 1883, c. 143, 22 Stat. 631, making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the government for the
fiscal year ending June 30th, 1884, made an entire change in
the emoluments of the clerk of this court. Before that act the
clerk collected the fees of his office, paid the expenses, and kept
what remained as his own compensation. He was not accountable to the government or to any one else for the income. The
act of 1883 established a maximum for his annual compensation, and required.him to pay into the Treasury all the fees and
emoluments of the office over his salary, necessary clerk hire,
and incidental expenses.
The same act made it the duty of the court to prepare a
table of fees to be charged by the clerk. This was done, and
among the rest is the following:
"For preparing the record or a transcript thereof for the
printer, indexing the same, supervising the printing, and distributing the printed copies to the justices, the reporter, the law
library, and the parties or their counsel, fifteen cents per folio."
Rule. 24, sec. .
The clerk is responsible to the court for the correctness and
proper indexing of the printed copies of the record, for their
presentation to the justices in the form and of the size prescribed by the rules, and for their delivery when required to
the parties entitled thereto. As he must now account to the
Treasury for the fees and emoluments of his office, he may demand payment in advance. Steever v. Rickman, 109 U. S. 74.
If the printing is actually done under his supervision he may
require the payment of the fee chargeable under the rule before the printing is done. If the parties themselves furnish the
printed copies, the fee must be paid, if demanded, in time to
enable him to make the necessary examinations and be ready
to deliver the copies to the parties or their counsel and to the

CONRO v. CRANE.
Syllabus.

court when needed for any purpose in the progress of the cause.
The fee is for the service specified in this item of the table, and
is indivisible. Consequently, if the clerk performs any part of
the service he is entitled to collect the whole fee; and if the
printed record is used at all, it must be examined by him
to see if it conforms to the copy certified below and on file as
the transcript of the record. So that if the printed copies are
used for any purpose in the progress of the cause the whole fee
is chargeable. As the law now stands the fees and emoluments of the office belong to the.governnment, subject only to
the payment of the annual salary of the clerk, necessary clerk
hire, and incidental expenses, and the clerk is the collecting
agent for the government.
As this record has been printed the case may be docketed
without security for this fee, but the printed copies cannot be
delivered to the justices or the parties for use on the final
hearing or on any motion in the progress of the cause unless
the fee is paid when demanded by the clerk in time to enable
him to make his examinations and perform his other duties in
connection with the copies.
Rule 31 relates only to the form and size of the printed
records,' briefs, and arguments, and has nothing to do with the
fee now in question.

COh RO & Another v. CRANE & Another.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF JLLINOIS.
Argued January 24th, 25th, 1884.-Decided March 3d, 1884.

Bankruptcy-Mae.
Property was sold to H, by order of a court of bankruptcy. He not paying
for it, the court, without notice to him, vacated the order of sale, and
made an order selling it to C, who paid for it, and went into possession of
it. Afterwards, on review, the sale to C was set aside, and the sale to H
reinstated. H, having paid for the property, received possession of it,
and afterwards the money paid by C was repaid to him: Held, that C was
not liable to payto H the profits derived by him from the use of the property while he had it.

