GILMER v. IIGLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

GI[MER & Another v. HIGLEY.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF MONTANA.
Argued December 10th, 1S3.-Deeldcd January 7th, 1834.

Common Carrer-Error-Evid=e.
1. In a suit by a passenger on a stage coach against the proprietors as common
carriers, to recover damages for personal injuries sustained by the upsetting of the coach, the plaintiff as witness stated that he was received by
the driver as a passenger from Boulder to Helena without charge, and
that one of the defendants had said since the accident that the driver
had orders to carry him without fare to Helena. On cross-examination
he was asked whether his fare was not demanded before the accident at
Jefferson-a station between Boulder and Helena-whether he had not
refused to pay it, or to leave the coach when required to do so. These
cross-questions were objected to, and the objections sustained below.
Held, That they related to the same transaction inquired of in chief, and
should have been allowed.
2. When the record does not contain all the evidence in a case, the appellate
court is not warranted in assuming that the refusal by the court at nisi
priusto permit a question to be put to a witness worked no injury to the
party questioning. The farthest that any court has gone has been to
hold that when it can be seen affirmatively that the refusal worked no
injury to party appealing, it will be disregarded.

Action in the nature of an action on the case to recover damages for injuries done to the plaintiff by the defendants as
common carriers, through the upsetting of a stage coach in the
Territory of Montana. Plea that the plaintiff was not a passenger, but was unlawfully on board the coach, nd refused to
pay his fare when demanded.
2ft. . ubley Ashton and -T.
tiffs in error.
r. 1?. T. Iferrick and frM.
error.

X

1'athaniel Filsonfor plain. Xeoris for defendants in

M JusTicE MLLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action in the Territorial Court of Montana, in
which a judgment was rendered in favor of defendant in error
against the plaintiffs in error for an injury received by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

upsetting of a stage coach used by the latter as common
carriers of passengers.
The plaintiff below founds his action on this contract of carriage, and the negligent manner in which it was performed. He
"alleges that on the day and year last aforesaid, at the said
Boulder City, the said defendants received the said plaintiff as
a passenger upon their coach, to be carried thence to said town
of Helena."
The answer of defendants to this part of the declaration or
petition is that "they deny that the said Higley was received
as a passenger on their coach as in said complaint alleged, but
say that from the city of Jefferson to the said town of Helena
the said plaintiff was wrongfully and unlawfully thereon, and
contrary to the request and demand of these defendants by
their agent, who then and there having been refused, upon his
request therefor, the fare of said Higley on said coach, did
not consent or agree to his becoming a passenger of defendants
thereon, but forbade him so to continue thereon, and did not
consent thereto."
It will thus be seen that the issue was fairly raised whether
the plaintiff was a trespasser in forcing himself into or on the
stage of the defendants without paying his fare, or whether he
was there under a contract of passenger carriage, either express
or implied.
The following bill of exceptions was taken on the trial, and
the ruling of the court thereon is assigned for error:
"Be it remembered that on the trial of this cause plaintiff,
being a witness upon the stand, upon his examination in chief,
testified that he had taken passage as a passenger from Boulder
City to Helena, that the driver received him as such, and that
after the accident had happened, and while he was sick in the
hospital, that the defendant 0. J. Salisbury said that he had
ordered his drivers to receive him without paying fare until he
got to Helena, and that he had frequently travelled over the road
before without paying his fare until he arrived in Helena, was
asked on cross-examination:
"Whnat was said to you at Jefferson City, the first station on
the road, by the agent in reference to'your fare?

GILMLER v. HIGLEY.
Opinion of the Cour.L

"Did he not demand it of you?
"Did you not refuse to pay it?
"Did he not demand you to get out or pay your fare ?
"Did you not refuse to do either?
"Did you not tell him that he could not put you out?"
"To each question as propounded at the time plaintiff objected,
and the court then and there sustained said objection to each of
said questions when so separately propounded, and did not permit said witness to answer. To which rulings of the court defendants then and there duly excepted, and this his bill of
exceptions is signed and sealed, and made a part of the record
herein, this 16th day of December, A. D. 1878."
The pertinency of these questions to the issue we have just
stated is so plain as to need no argument or illustration.
Jefferson City lies between Boulder City and Helena. The
accident by which plaintiff was injured occurred between
Jefferson City and Helena. If, getting in the stage at Boulder,
plaintiff had not paid his fare, it was proper that the agent of
the stage company at Jefferson should collect it. Certainly it
was his duty to require the fare to be paid from Jefferson to
Helena. Whether he had a right to ride free of charge was a
question to be left to the jury, and unless he proved it to their
satisfaction he was a trespasser if he refused to pay the fare to
the agent. We are to presume that he would have answered
the questions propounded to him, if required to answer them,
so as to prove that he was told at Boulder that he must pay at
Jefferson; that at Jefferson payment was demanded of him;
that he refused to pay; that he was then requested to get
out of the stage; that he refused either to pay his fare or get
out of the stage, and that he told the agent he could not put
him out.
It is idle to say, if these answers had been given, that he had
a contract for passage, unless he proved it affirmatively in some
other way.
But it is said that the questions were not legitimate crossexamination.
We are of a different opinion. Plaintiff, offering himself as a
witness to show that he was rightfully in the coach as a regular
VOL. cx-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

passenger under the usual conditions, told his story of how he
got in at Boulder, that he was taken as a passenger by the
driver, who received him as such, and that one of the defendants said he had ordered his drivers to receive him without
fare.
It seems very clear that to require him to state whether his
fare was demanded of him by the regular agent of this company, and on his refusal to pay he was ordered to leave the
coach and refused, was an examination in regard to the very
thing about which he testified in chief. To permit a party to
the suit to tell his own tale of a transaction ike this, and to
conceal what is important to the defendant in regard to the
same occurrence and at the same time, would be a gross perversion of justice, and would bring into discredit the policy of
permitting parties to actions to testify in their own behalf.
But it was said by the Supreme Court of Montana, on appeal,
that since the record did not contain all the testimony, the
court could not see that defendants were injured by the refusal
to have the questions answered.
We have not before heard of such a rule in a revisory'court.
The farthest any court has gone has been to hold, that when
such court can see affirmatively that the error worked no injury
to the party appealing, it will be disregarded. This court, in
Deary v. Cray, 5 Wall. 807, used this language:
"Wherever the application of this rule is sought, it must appear so clear as to be beyond doubt that the error did not and
could not have prejudiced the party's rights."

There was here manifest error, as we look at the issue and
the questions asked. So far from being able to see that it
worked no injury to defendants, it seems probable that if the
questions had been answered as we have supposed, if not conclusive of the issue made by defendants, they would have very
strongly supported their answer.
Tle ju ment of the Supreme Court of _fontana is reversed,
witAh directions to order a new triaL.

