HART v. SANSOM.
Syllabus.

the surplus. It not having been paid to the trustees under the
will, or to the life-tenant, the appellee, as remainderman, is
clearly entitled to it.
Tiejudgment of the Court qf Claims is aJfirmed.

HART v. SANSOM & Another.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
Submitted January2d, 1884.-Decided January 21st, 1884.

Estoppel- Evidewce-Judgment.
A decree of a State court for the removal of a cloud upon the title of land
within the State, rendered against a citizen of another State, who .has
been cited by publication only, as directed by the local statutes, is no bar
to an action by him in the Circuit Court of the United States to recover
the land against the plaintiff in the former suit.
In a suit to recover land, and to remove a cloud upon the title thereof, brought
in a court of the State in which the land is, against W, H and others, the
petition alleged that V ejected the plaintiff and unlawfully withheld possession from him ; that H set up some pretended claim or title to the land;
that the other defendants held recorded deeds thereof, which were fraudulent and void ; and that the pretended claims and deeds cast a cloud upon
the plaintiff's title. Due service was made on the other defendants ; and
a citation to H, who was a citizen of another State, was published as di.
rected by the local statutes. All the defendants were defaulted; and upon
a writ of inquiry the jury found that H claimed the land, but had no title,
of record or otherwise, and returned a verdict for the plaintiff. Judgment
was rendered that the plaintiff recover the land of the defendants, and that
the deeds mentioned in the petition be cancelled and alinufled, and the
cloud thereby removed and for costs, and that execution issue for the costs.
Held, that this judgment was no bar to an action by H in the Circuit
Court of the United States to recover the land against the plaintiff in the
former suit.

-Y.
. Hallett .Phillisand -Mr. H. J Legvy for the plaintiff in error.
31r. A. S. -Lathropfor the defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

Mn. JUSTIcE GnAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error sued out by Edmond J. Hart, a citizen
of Louisiana, to reverse a judgment rendered against him in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern Dis
trict of Texas, in an action brought by him against Marion
Sansom and the heirs at law of Thomas M. League, citizens of
Texas, to recover a tract of land in Johnson County in that
State, of which they had dispossessed him.
At the trial, Hart proved his title under a patent from the
Republic of Texas to League, and a deed with general covenants of warranty from League, dated August 19th, 1846, and
both recorded on December 9th, 1879; and it appeared that
the defendant Sansom held possession of the land under a lease
from the other defendants, and as their tenant.
The defendants offered in evidence the record of a judgment
rendered by the District Court of Johnson County, on August
24t.h, 1875, upon a petition filed June 11th, 1873, by the heirs
at law of League (who died intestate .November 5th, 1865)
against Virgil Wilkerson, Orlando Dorsey and several other
persons, and Hart, alleging that Wilkerson ejected the plaintiffs from this land, and unlawfully withheld possession thereof
from them; that on October 29th, 1870, the defendant Dorsey,
by deed, duly recorded, conveyed to some of the other defendants than Wilkerson and Hart three-fourths of the land, reserving in that deed the remaining fourth to himself, and that other
deeds (particularly set forth) of parts of the land were afterwards made to the rest of such other defendants, and recorded;
that the defendant Hart "set up some pretended claim and
title to said land;" and that "the defendant Wilkerson is a
naked trespas ser upon the land of the plaintiffs; and that the
several other defendants' several deeds, which appear upon the
record of deeds of Johnson County as aforesaid, are fraudulent
and void, and that the said pretended claims and deeds, and
each and all of them, cast a cloud upon the title of the plaintiffs;" and praying "that they have judgment that the cloud
upon the title of the plaintiffs, created by the several deeds
aforesaid, be removed, and that the said deeds and each and
all of them be declared null and void, and be cancelled and dis-

HART v. SANSOM.
Opinion of the Court.

charged of record, and that the title of the plaintiffs in and to
said premises and every part thereof may be confirmed and
established as against said defendants and each and every of
them and all persons claiming through or under them," and for
a writ of possession, damages, and costs.
That record also showed the issue and due service of citations
to all the defendants except Dorsey and Hart; the issue of a
citation directing the sheriff to serve Hart, being a citizen of
Louisiana, by publication, and the sheriff's return showing the
execution of the citation by such publication in a newspaper of
the county four successive weeks before the return day; and a
like service by publication on Dorsey, a citizen of New York.
That record further showed a default of all the defendants;
and that upon a writ of inquiry the jury assessed damages
against Dorsey and Hart; found as facts the issue of the patent
to League and the title of the plaintiffs as his heirs, that Hart
"claimed said land," and that a deed was made by Dorsey,
and recorded, as alleged in the petition, but that Hart and
Dorsey respectively had no title, of record or otherwise; and
returned a verdict "'for the plaintiffs, and that they recover
the land described in the petition."
That record finally showed a judgment "that the plaintiffs
recover of the defendants the premises described," and "that
the several deeds in the plaintiffs' petition mentioned be, and
the same are hereby, annulled and cancelled, and for naught
held, and the cloud thereby removed," and for costs; and that
execution issue for the costs.
The Circuit Court, against the plaintiff's objection, admitted
the judgment in evidence, instructed the jury that it divested
the plaintiff of his title to the land, and directed a verdict for
the defendants.
The plaintiff, deriving his title under a deed with covenants
of general warranty from League, is entitled to maintain this
action against League's heirs, who are estopped by those covenants, unless the former judgment in the action brought by
them in the State court has adjudicated the title as between
them and the present plaintiff. It is therefore necessary to
consider the nature and effect of that judgment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court

The petition combined, in accordance with the practice prevailing in that State, an action in the nature of ejectment to
recover possession of the land, and a suit in equity to remove a
cloud upon the plaintiffs' title; and the service by publication
was in the form authorized by the local statutes against nonresidents. 1 Paschal's Digest of Laws of Texas (4th ed.) art.
25.
The petition alleged that Wilkerson was in possession; and
that the other defendants, except Hart, held recorded deeds,
which were fraudulent and void, and cast a cloud upon the
plaintiffs' title. But as to Hart, it did not allege that he was
in possession, or was in privity with the other defendants, or
that he held any deed, but only that he set up some pretended
claim and title. And the verdict finds that he claimed the
land, but had no title of record or otherwise therein. The
judgment is that the plaintiffs recover the land of the defendants, and that the deeds mentioned in the petition be and are
annulled and cancelled, and the cloud thereby removed, and
for costs; and execution is awarded for costs only, and not for
any writ or process in the nature of awrit of possession or
taberefacias.
It is difficult to see how any part of that judgment (except
for costs) is applicable to Hart; for that part which is for recovery of possession certainly cannot apply to Hart, who was
not in possession; and that part which removes the cloud upon
the plaintiffs' title appears to be limited to the cloud created by
the deeds mentioned in the petition, and the petition does not
allege, and the verdict negatives, that Hart held any deed.
But if there is any judgment (except for costs) against Hart,
it is, upon the most liberal construction, only a decree removing
the cloud created by his pretended claim of title, and is no bar
to the present action.
Generally, if not universally, equity jurisdiction is exercised
inpersonmm, and not in rem, and depends upon the control of
the court over the parties, by reason of their presence or residence, and not upon the place where the land lies in regard to
which relief is sought. Upon a bill for the removal of a cloud
upon title, as upon a bill for the specific performance of an

HART v. SAKSOM.
Opinion of the Court.

agreement to convey, the decree, unless otherwise expressly
provided by statute, is clearly not a judgment in rem, establishonly, by restraining a title in land, but operates in _onu'
ing the defendant from asserting his claim, and directing him
to deliver up his deed to be cancelled, or to execute a release
to the plaintiff. Langdell Eq. PL (2d ed.) §§ 43, 184; -Masie
v. lratts, 6 Cranch, 148; Orton v. Smith, 18 How. 263; 'andever v. Feman,20 Tex. 334.
It would doubtless be within the power of the State in
which the land lies to provide by statute that if the defendant
is not found within the jurisdiction, or refuses to make or to
cancel a deed, this should be done in his behalf by a trustee
appointed by the court for that purpose. Feck v. Hfoaper, 119
Mass. 52; Ager v. .furray, 105 U. S. 126, 132. But in such
a case, as in the ordinary exercise of its jurisdiction, a court of
equity acts in jersonam, by compelling a deed to be executed
or cancelled by or in behalf of the party. It has no inherent
power, by the mere force of its decree, to annul a deed, or to
establish a title.
In the judgment in question, no trustee to act in behalf of
the defendant was appointed by the court, nor have we been
referred to any statute authorizing such an appointment to be
made. The utmost effect which can be attributed to the
judnent, as against Hart, is that of an ordinary decree for
the removal by him, as well as by the other defendants, of a
cloud upon the plaintiff's title.
Such a decree, being in personam merely, can only be supported, against a person who is not a citizen or resident of the
State in which it is rendered, by actual service upon him
within its jurisdiction; and constructive service by publication
in a newspaper is not sufficient. The courts of the State
might perhaps feel bound to give effect to the service made as
directed by its statutes. But no court deriving its authority
from another government will recognize a merely constructive
service as bringing the person within the jurisdiction of the
court. The judgment would be allowed no force in the courts
of any other State; and it is of no greater force, as against a
citizen of another State, in a court of the United States, though

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

held within the State in which the judgment was rendered.
Ilollingswoeth v. Barbour,4 Pet. 466, 475; Boswell v. Oti, 9
How. 336; Bisclof v. Wethered, 9 Wall. 812; Knowes v. Gaslight Company, 19 Wall. 58; Pennoyer v. lNef, 95 'U. S. 714.
See also Scldbsby v. TFestenholtz, L. R. 6 Q. B. 155 ; The City
of -3feeca, 6 P. D. 106.

The Circuit Court having ruled and instructed the jury
otherwise, its judgment must be reversed, and the case remanded with directions to set aside the verdict, and to order a
-ew trial.

UNITED STATES, on the relation of Chandler, v. COUNTY
COMMISSIONERS OF DODGE COUNTY.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
Submitted January 4th, 1884.-Decided January 21st, 1884.

Inkermal Improrements-tuniciZBonds-Nebraska-Statues--Ta.z
A wagon bridge across the Platte River is a work of internal improvement
within the meaning of the statute of Nebraska of February 15th, 1869; and
that statute makes it the duty of county commissioners to levy a tax on
the taxable property within a precinct in whose behalf bonds have been
issued under that statute to aid in constructing such a bridge, sufficient to
pay the annual interest on the bonds, and without regard to any limit imposed by, or voted in accordance with chapter 9 of the Revised Statutes

of 1866.

Petition for writ of mandamus; refused below, and brought
up by writ of error.
..Mr. William H . uger for plaintiff in error.
r. . T. N'ewton, 3Pf. Zewis A. Grof, and .MI'. C. S. Xontgomery for defendants in error.
E.

JUSTIoE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to reverse a judgment of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Nebraska, deny-

