OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

The rule is well established and of long standing that an exception to be of any avail must be taken at the trial. It may
be reduced to form and signed afterwards, but the fact that it
was seasonably taken must appear affirmatively in the record
by a bill of exceptions duly allowed or otherwise. Phelps v.
.Mayer, 15 How. 160; U ited 8tates v. Breitling,20 How. 252;
French v. Edwards, 13 Wall. 506; Stanton v. Embrey, 93 U.
S. 548; Hunnicutt v. Peyton, 102 U. S. 333. This clearly is
not such a case. There is nothing whatever to indicate that
any exception was taken to the rejection of the evidence complained of until the next term after the trial was over and the
judgment rendered, though not signed. Even the liberal extension of the rule granted in Simpson v. Dall, 3 Wall. 460, is
not enough to reach this defect. The language here implies
an exception only at the time of tendering the bill of exceptions to be signed, which was not only long after the trial, but
at a subsequent term of the court.
It follows that the errors assigned are not such as we can
consider, and
The judgments are cafimne

JEINESS v. CITIZENS' NATIONAL BANK OF ROME.
IN

ERROR

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF
111ICHIGAIN.
Submitted December 20th, 188.-Decided January 7th, 1834.

Apeal-uridiction;

When a judgment below is for an amount sufficient to give jurisdiction above,
but it appears affirmatively on the record that after deducting from itan
amount not in contest below, there remains less than the jurisdictional
hum,this court has no jurisdiction.

.'.

W. B. Wi2Uctms for the plaintiff in error.

X& CHmF Jusmc WA=T delivered the opinion of the court.
The judgment in this case is for $7,275.16, but it appears

HOFF v. JASPER COUNTY.
Statement of Facts

affirmatively on the face of the record that of this amount
$2,669.03 was not disputed below. The defence related alone
to the difference between these two amounts, which is less
than $5,000. The dispute here is only in reference to the
amount contested below. Such being the case, we have no jurisdiction. The cases of Gray v. Blanchard,97 U. S. 564;
Tintsman v. Mational Bank, 100 U. S. 6; and Hilton v. Dickin-son, 108 U. S. 165, are conclusive to this effect.
Dismissed.

HOFF -. JASPER COUNTY.
IN

ERROR

TO

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE IVESTERN DISTRICT OF 3ISSOURI.
Argued and submitted December 20th, 1883.-Decided January 7th, 1884.

Municipal Bonds-Holderfor Value.
1. When a municipal corporation subscribes to the capital stock of a railroad
company, and issues its bonds in payment therefor, the bonds must comply with the requisitions which the law makes necessary in respect of
registration and certificate before they are issued ; and innocent holders
for value are charged with the duty of knowing these laws, and of inquiring whether they have been complied with.
2. A statute requiring a State auditor to register municipal bonds and to certify that all the conditions of law have been complied with in their issue
calls for the exercise of no judicial functions on his part.
3. The rulings in Anthony v. County of Jasper,101 U. S. 693, involving the
same issue of bonds, adhered to. The additional facts shown in this case
present no legal aspects to distinguish it from that case.

Suit to recover on coupons on bonds issued by a county in
payment of subscription to stock of a railroad company by
a township within the county. The facts were in all respects
the same as those in Anthony v. County of Jasper,101 U. S.
693, except that here it was expressly found that the subscription of the township which was voted had actually been made
by the County Court and accepted by the railroad company before the act providing for the registration of bonds was approved, while there the acceptance of the subscription before

