OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

the claimants, the honesty of the claims is always open to inquiry for the purposes of fair dealing with the government
against which, through the United States, a claim has been
made.
Of course, in what we have said we express no opinion on
the merits of the controversy between Mexico and the relators.
Of that we know nothing. All we decide is, that it was within
the discretion of the President to negotiate again with Mexico
in respect to the claims, and that as long as the two governments are treating on the questions involved, he may properly
withhold from the relators their distributive shares of the
moneys now in the hands of the Secretary of State.
The judment in the case of t7he La Alrna Company is afJ&ned with costs, and that in the case of Zey is reversed
with costs, and the cases remanded with instotios -todismiss the petition of Key.

SCHREIBER & Others v. SftARPLESS.
ORIGINAL.
Submitted December 17th, 1883.-Decided January 7th, 134.

Alatement-Action-Covyrigh--Penally-Stautes.
1. The rule at common law, that qui tam actions on penal statutes do not survive, prevails in the federal courts as to actions on penal statutes of the
United States, even in States where the statutes of the State allow suits
on State penal statutes to be prosecuted after the death of the offender.
2. An action to recover penalties and forfeitures for the infringement of a
copyright under the provisions of § 4965 Rev. Stat. is abated by the death
of the defendant.

Petition for mandamus to require the judge of the District
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania to reinstate a writ of scire facias sued out to bring in
the executors of the will of Sharpless to defend an action commenced against him in his lifetime, under § 4965 Rev. Stat., to

SCHREIBER v. SHARPLESS.
Argument for Petitioners.

recover penalties for infringing a copyright, which writ was
quashed by the court after hearing the parties.
.r. J. 1?. Paul, Xr. A. Sydney Biddle, Xr. Renry P.
B'oum, and .r. John RC Valentine for the petitioners.-The
question raised in this case is whether or not an action to recover a penalty imposed by Congress for the infringement
of a copyright survives after the death of the defendant. By
the statute law of Pennsylvania, an action for a penalty does
not abate by the death of the defendant. Act of February 24,
1834, section 28 Pur. Dig., 424, pl. 96, P. L. 7. It was not
questioned by the court, during the argument, that if the law
of Pennsylvania with reference to the abatement and survival
of actions was applicable to the case in hand, the action survived against the defendant's administrators; and during the
argument on that point plaintiffs' counsel was stopped and
directed to discuss the other question. The only question,
therefore, for consideration, is whether or not the State law
applies.-I. If the abatement or survival of an action, by
reason of the death of a party, is a matter of procedure and
practice, it is clear that by § 914 of the Revised Statutes, the
State law governing such questions is the rule of the decision
of the federal courts. "The yractice, jleadings, and forms
anzd modes of proceedingin civil causes other than equity and
admiralty causes, in the Circuit and District Courts, shall. conform as near as may be to the practice, pleadings, and forms
and modes of proceeding existing at the time in like causes in
the courts of the State within which such Circuit or District
Courts are held, any rule of court to the contrary notwithstanding" Rev. Stat. § 914. The question of abatement of an
action by the death of a party is one of procedure. 7ones v.
Pan Zandt's Administrator, 4 McLean, 604; .McCouZ v. Le
.Komp, 2 Wheat. 111.-il. By the very terms too of § 955 Rev.
Stat., this action survived. The section provides: "When either
of the parties, whether plaintiff, or petitioner, or defendant, in
any suit in any court of the United States, dies before final
judgment, the executor or adminstrator of such deceased party
may, in case the cause of action survives y law, prosecute or

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Argument for Petitioners.

defend any such suit to final judgment." This statute provides
that all actions survive, after the death of a party, where "the
cause of action survives by law." What law? There is no
other federal law on the subject, this being the only statute
dealing with the question of abatement by death, and no cornmon law governing federal questions exists. Nor was it intended by Congress to incorporate the law of England as to
abatement existing at the time of the passage of the Judiciary
Act; for, if this were so, nearly all actions would at this day
abate by the death of a party, if brought in a federal court.
The only other law, therefore, which can be referred to in
the phrase "survives by law" must be the law of the State in
which the action is brought, and this natural construction has
been repeatedly adopted in the decisions. See Tafteld v.
Bushnell, 1 Blatchford, 393; Barker v. Ladd, 3 Sawyer, 44;
Trigg v. Oonway, Hempst., 711; H7odge v. Railroad, 1
Dillon, 104.-HIL Even should it be held that the question
under consideration is not one of procedure at all, but goes to
the root of the action, then § 34 of the Judiciary Act of 1789,
Rev. Stat. § 121, applies and the action survived against the
executors of the defendant.
That section reads as follows:
"The laws of the several States, except where the Constitution,
treaties, or statutes of the United States otherwise require or
provide, shall be regarded as rules of decision in trials at common law in the courts of the United States in cases where they
apply." This section has been held not to apply to cases of
procedure. Assuming that the abatement and survival of an
action is not a question of practice or procedure, then by the
terms of this section, the State laws regulating such matters
must be "rules of decision" in cases where they apply. See
United States v. .undell, 1 Hughes, 415; .M-oOluny v. Silliman, 3 Pet. 270; L.efflngwell v. Warren, 2 Black, 599; Parker
v. Halwk, 2 Fisher's Pat. Cas. 58; Rich v. Ricketts, 7 Blatchford, 230; H1owes v. Nute, 4 Fisher's Pat. Cas. 263; Sayles v.
Oregon Central Railroad,6 Sawyer, 311; Hayden v. Oriental
Mills, 15 Fed. Rep. 605.-IV. :Mandamus is the proper remedy
in a case like this. Exparte Bra&treet,7 Pet. 634; Staffr v.
Union Bank of Louisiana, 17 How. 275. Without it the

SCHREIBER v. SI{ARPLESS.
Opinion of the Court.

plaintiffs have no remedy. § 1011 :Rev. Stat.; Toland v.
Sprague,12 Pet. 300; High on Extraordinary Remedies, § 151;
Regina v. -. estevn, 3 Ad. & EL 810; .Eo parte &ollenberger, 96 U. S. 369; EFcparteBradsteet,7 Pet. 634; Insurance
Company v. Wilson, 8 Pet. 291; Ecparte Rmusell, 13 Wall.
664; Insuranee Company v. Comstock, 16 Wall. 258; Railroad
Company v. lis-wall, 23 Wall. 507.
MR. CHIFF JusTIcE WAmr delivered the opinion of the court.
The petitioners sued Charles L. Sharpless in the District
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania to recover certain penalties and forfeitures claim~d
under the provisions of sec. 4965 of the Revised Statutes, for
the infringement of a copyright.- Sharpless died after issue
joined, but before judgment. After his death had been suggested by his attorney in the cause, the petitioners sued out a
scire facias against Anna R. Sharpless, executrix, and Charles
W. Sharpless, executor of his will, requiring them to appear
and become parties to the action, or show cause why they
should not be made parties, by order of the court. Before this
writ was served, the attorney for Sharpless during his life,
moved that the writ be quashed. After argument the motion
was granted, on the ground that the cause of action terminated
with the death of the defendant, and did not survive as against
his legal representatives.
The petitioners now ask for a rule on the District Court to
show cause why a writ of mandamus should not issue requiring
it to reinstate the writ of scirefaca and proceed with the case.
Without considering whether a writ of mandamus may issue,
directly from this court to a District Court to enforce procedure
in a case where the final judgment of the District Court is subject to review in the Circuit Court, we deny the rule asked for,
because we are entirely satisfied with the action of the district
judge. He was asked to send out a writ of scirefaciasto bring
in and make parties to a qui tam action the personal representatives of a deceased defendant, who had been sued to recover the penalties and forfeitures which it was alleged he had
subjected himself to, under an act of Congress, by the infringe-

OCTOBER TERM , 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

ment of a copyright. The suit was not for the damages the
plaintiffs had sustained by the infringement, but for penalties
and forfeitures recoverable under the act of Congress for a violation of the copyright law. The personal representatives of a
deceased party to a suit cannot prosecute or defend the suit
after his death, unless the cause of action, on account of which
the suit was brought, is one that survives by law. Rev. Stat.
§ 955. At common law acti6ns on penal statutes do not
survive (Com. Dig. tit. Administration, B. 15), and there is no

act of Congress which establishes any other rule in respect to
actions on the penal statutes of the United States. The right
to proceed against the representatives of a deceased person depends not on forms and modes of proceeding in a suit, but on
the nature of the cause of action for which the suit is brought.
If the cause of action survives, the practice, pleadings, and
forms and modes of proceeding in the courts of the State may
be resorted to in the courts of the United States for the purpose of keeping the suit alive and bringing in the proper parties. Rev. Stat. §. 914. But if the cause of action dies with
,the person, the suit abates and cannot be revived. Whether an
action survives depends on the substance of the cause of action,
not on the forms of proceeding to enforce it. As the nature of
penalties and forfeitures imposed by acts of Congress cannot be
changed by State laws, it follows that State statutes allowing
suits on State penal statutes to be prosecuted after the death
of the offender, can have no effect on suits in the courts of the
United States for the recovery of penalties imposed by an act
of Congress.
lThe rule is denied and petition diissed.

