OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

the two quarter sections exceeds $5,100, and the verdict fixes
the value of each quarter at $3,000.
DiMi
.se.
Lynch & Another v. Bailey & Another. This, like the case
of TDeyper v. Wise, just decided, was a suit to recover the possession of a whole section of land. Each of the plaintiffs in error
was in possession of a separate quarter-section under a pre-emption
claim. Their defences were separate and distinct, and the recovery against each was for the land that be separately claimed and
occupied. The value of the recovery from either of the defendants does not exceed five thousand dollars, though the aggregate
against all is more.
The motion to dismiss is granted for the reasons stated in the
other case.

THE STATE, RUCKMAN Prosecutor, v. DEMAREST,
Collector.
f ERROR TO THE COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS OF NW JERSEY.
Submitted January10th, 188L-Decided February4th, 1834.

Error-Practice.
Grgsby v. Purcell, 9D U. S. 505, followed; holding that if the transcript is
not filed and the cause docketed during the term to which it is made returnable, or some sufficient excuse given for the delay, the writ of error or
appeal becomes inoperative, and the cause may be dismissed by the court
of its own motion or on motion of the defendant in error or the appellee.

Motion by a defendant in error to docket and dismiss a case.
XrM. _Pete'

V. Stagg for the mover.

delivered the opinionr of the court.
This is a motion by Cornelius N. Durie, the successor in
office of Demarest, the defendant in error, to docket and dismiss a case. From the motion papers it appears that Demarest,
as collector of the township, recovered a judgment against the
State, Ruckman prosecutor, in the Court of Errors and Appeals
MR. CHIEF JUsTICE WA r

BEAN v. PATTERSON.
Syllabus.

of New Jersey, on the 11th of July, 1866, and that Ruckman
sued out a writ of error from this court, gave bond and had
citation signed, but never docketed the case here. iRuckman
died on the 5th of November, 1882, and Demarest in the summer of 1883.
Upon these facts it is clear that the writ of error had become
inoperative for want of prosecution long before it abated by
the death of the parties. Grigsby v. Purcell, 99 U. S. 505, and
cases there cited. The exact date when the writ was sued out
is not stated, but if it had been delayed until five years after
the judgment, there was no time within ten years before the
death of Ruckman that he would have been allowed to docket
the case in this court, since that could only be done during the
term to which the writ was returnable. It seems to us proper,
therefore, to declare the suit abated by the death of the parties,
and leave the representatives of those in interest to proceed
accordingly. An order to that effect may be entered.

BEAN & Another v. PATTERSON & Another.
APPEAL FROMt THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE -U WE

STATES FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Submitted January 28th, 1834.-Delded February 4th, 1884.

Fees-Pracice.
When a party has printed the transcript of the record at his own expense, the
case may be docketed without security for the fee allowed the clerk by Rule
24, ยง 7: but the printed copies cannot be delivered to the justice or the parties for use on final hearing or on any motion in the progress of the cause
unless the fee is paid when demanded by the clerk in time to enable him to
make his examinations and perform his other duties in connection with the
copies.

Notion for leave to docket an appeal, without security for
payment of fees for printing.

.Mr. Jazm S. BoMford for the motion.
No counsel opposing.
voL. Cx-26

