A 1ERICAN BIBLE SOCIETY v. PRICE.
Opinion of the Court.

quire whether there might have been a removal under that act
if an application had been made in time and in proper form.
The order remanding the cause is affirmed.

A MERICAN BIBLE SOCIETY & Others v. PRICE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF
ILLINOIS.
Submitted December 14th, 1883.-Decided January 7th, 1884.

-emoval of Causes-Statutes.
1. Under the third subdivision of ยง 639 Rev. Stat., a suit cannot be removed
from a State court, unless all parties on one side of the controversy are
different citizens from those on the other. ewing .fachine Companies,
18 Wall. 553, and Vannevar v. Bryant, 21 Wall. 41, adhered to.
2. Where a daughter of a testator commenced suit in a State court to set
aside the will, and the executors were trustees of a small trust fund
under the will, the use of which was to be enjoyed by the daughter during
her life, and which was to go to her children on her decease : Held, That
the executors were necessary parties to the suit, and if they were citizens
of the same State as the daughter, the cause could not be removed into
the Circuit Court of the United States, under the third subdivision cf
ยง 639 Rev. Stat. even though the legatees and devisees of the great mass
of the estate were citizens of other States.

Motion to dismiss an appeal from an order of the court below remanding the cause to the State court.
.A1r. G. Xcerner for appellee and mover.
_ibr. George P. Strong for appellants.
JUSTICE WArE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from an order remanding a cause which

Mi. CHIEF

had been removed from a State court. The case is as follows:
Isaac Foreman, a citizen of Illinois, died on the 28th of October,
1878, leaving a will by which, after devising certain property
to his wife Rebecca Foreman for life, he appointed John T.
Thomas, Frederick H. Pieper, and Theophilus Harrison, all cit-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

izens of Illinois, his executors.

After directing his executors to

convert all his property into money, he proceeded as follows:
"4th. After the payment of all my just debts, I give and
bequeath to my said executors the sum of two thousand dollars (62,000) in trust for the use and benefit of my daughter,
Mary Price, during her natural life. I desire my said executors
to safely loan on interest said sum of money, and pay to my
said daughter the interest or profits thereof annually during
her life, and after her death the proceeds or interest thereof
to be paid annually for the maintenance and education of her
child or children, and such principal sum to be paid to her
child or children when he, she or they become of age. And
should my said daughter die leaving no child or children, or
should all of them die before coming of age, then the said sum of
two thousand dollars shall be payable by my said executors, twothirds thereof to the American Bible Society, and one-third
thereof to the Missionary Society of the Methodist Episcopal
Church of the United States of America."
All the residue of the proceeds of his property were to be paid
over to the two societies in the same proportions.
This suit was begun by Mary Price, a citizen of Illinois,
the
daughter, on the 19th of November, 1878, to set aside the will
on the ground that the testator was of unsound mind when it was
made. The widow, the executors, and the two societies were all
made defendants. A joint answer was filed byall the defendants
on the 14th of January, 18T9. On the 21st of September,1880, the
widow filed a separate answer, in which she set forth her election
to renounce the will, and take her dower and legal share of the
estate of her husband. She, therefore, disclaimed all interest
in the controversy. Thereupon the two societies filed a petition
for the removal of the suit to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of Illinois, under the third
subdivision of sec. 639 of the Revised Statutes, on account of
"prejudice and local influence." When the case got to the
Circuit Court it was remanded, on the ground that the executors
were necessary defendants and citizens of the same State with
the complainant. To reverse that order this appeal was taken.

FRELINGHUTYSEN v. KEY.
Syllabus.

That a suit cannot be removed under the third subdivision of
sec. 639, unless all the parties on one side of the controversy
are citizens of different States from those on the other, was
settled in the case of the Sewing 2ifachine CoInpanies, 18
Wall. 553, and Fannevarv. Bryant, 21 Wall. 41, and that the
executors were necessary parties we have no doubt. The sum
of $2,000 was specifically bequeathed to them in trust for the
complainant, Mrs. Price, during her life, and after her death
for her children, or, in case of their death before coming of
age, for the two societies. The interest of the children is left
entirely to the protection of the executors, and is not represented either by the mother, who is complainant, or by the
societies who are defendants. If the children had united with
the mother in contesting the will the case might have been
different, but they have not done so, and their interests must
be treated accordingly.
Without, therefore, deciding any of the other questions,
The order remanding tite ease is aflrmed.

FRELINGUYSET, Secretary of State, v. KEY.
LA ABRA SILVER MINING COMPANY v. FRELINGHUYSENl, Secretary of State.
IN EROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Argued December 3d, 4th, 1883.-Decided January 7th, 184.
Awards under -aims Convention witk Mexico.
1. By the Claims Convention of July 4th, 1868, between the United States and
Mexico, it was agreed that "all claims on the part of corporations, companies or private individuals, citizens of the United States, upon the Government of the Mexican Republic, arising from injuries to their persons
or property by authorities of the Mexican Republic" should be submitted
to the decision of a commission to be created under the treaty ; that it
should "be competent for each government to name one person to attend
the commission as agent on its behalf, to present and support claims on
its behalf ;" and that the parties would "consider the result of the proceedings of this commission as a full, perfect and final settlement:"
Held, That, though the awards made by the Commissioners under this

