UNITED STATES v. GRAHAAL
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. GRAHAM.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAMS.
Submitted January 4th, 1684.-Decided January21st, 1884.

Construmtion of Sute-iZwge.
1. The act of 1835, 4 Stat. 755, which provided that ten cents a mile should be
allowed to naval officers for travellingexpenses while travelling under orders, made no distinction between travelling in and travelling out of the
country. It was not repealed by the act of April 17th, 1866, 14 Stat. 88,
nor by the act of July 15th, 1870, 16 Stat. 332, and was in force during
the whole time that the travel was performed which is sued for, and its
plain provisions are not affected by a contrary construction long put
upon it by the Navy Department.
United State8 v. Temple, 105 U. S.
97, approved and followed.
2. When there is ambiguity or doubt in a statute, a long continued construction of it in practice in a department would be in the highest degree persuasive, if not absolutely controlling in its effect But when the language is clear and precise, and the meaning evident, there is no room
for construction.

Suit in the Court of Claims for mileage at the rate of ten
cents a mile under the act of March 3d, 1835, 4 Stat. 755.
Judgment below for the claimant, from which the United
States appealed. The issues and contentions are stated in the
opinion of the court.
The case was submitted on briefs.

Xr. Solicitor-General and XA,. Aes6stant Attorney-GeneraZ
lnes for appellants.
III'. Robert B. Line8 and ./'. Jon Paul Jonev for appellee.
21r. CarlesF Benjamin also filed a brief for appellee.
JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
We are unable to distinguish this case in principle from that
of United StateB v. Tenple, 105 U. S. 97, in which it was decided that an officer of the navy who, while engaged in public
business, travelled under orders by land or sea, the travel by

MR. CmrF

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

sea not being in a public vessel of the United States, was entitled, under the act of June 30th, 1876, c., 159, 20 Stat. 65, to
mileage at the rate of eight cents a mile for the whole distance
travelled, whether by sea or land. The mileage sued for in this
case accrued while the act of March 3d, 1835, c. 27, 4 Stat. 757,
was in force. The language of that act, on which the question
now presented arises, is as follows:
"It is hereby expressly declared that the yearly allowance provided for in this act is all the pay, compensation, and allowance
that shall be received under any circumstances whatever, by any
such officer or person, except for travelling expenses under orders,

for which ten cents per mile shall be allowed."
That of the act of 1876, passed upon in Temple's case, was:
"And so much of the act of June 16th, 1874 . . . . as
provides that only actual travelling expenses shall be allowed to
any person holding employment or appointment under the United
States while engaged on public business, as is applicable to the
officers of the navy so engaged, is hereby repealed; and the sum
of 6ight cents per mile shall be allowed such officers while so engaged, in lieu of their actual expenses."
It is found as a fact inthis case that on the 6th of April, 1835,
which was only a little more than a month after the act of 1835
passed, circular instructions were issued from the Treasury
Department to the effect that mileage at the rate of ten cents
a mile was fixed by law and should be paid for travelling expenses within the United States, but that the usual and neces.sary passage money actually paid by officers returning from
foreign service, under orders or on sick ticket, when they could
not return in a public vessel, would be paid as theretofore, as
well as the like expenses of officers going out. The navy
regulations adopted in 1865, and in force in 1872, when the
claim of Graham, the appellee, accrued, provided that "for
travelling out of the United States the actual expenses only are
allowed." It is also found that from the time of the passage
of the act of 1835 until the decision of Temple's case in this
court, the Navy and Treasury Departments had, with a single

UNITED STATES v. GRAHAM.
Opinion of the Court.

exception, always held that the ten cents a mile did not apply
to travel to, from, or in foreign countries, but only to travel in
the United States. In Temple's case the long continued practice in the departments was relied on to justify the decision of
the accounting officers of the treasury against him, but the
fact of the actual existence of the practice was not found as it
has been now.
The operative words in the act of 1876 are "1the sum of eight
cents per mile shall be allowed," and in the act of 1835, "for
which ten cents per mile shall be allowed." • In Temple's case
it was said the language of the act of 1876 was so clear and
explicit as not to be open to construction, and to our minds the
same is true of the act of 1835. Under both acts all travelling
expenses are to be paid by mileage, and there is not in either
of them any indication of an intention of Congress to make a
distinction between travel by sea or on land, in foreign countries
or in the United States. As was remarked by 31r. Justice
Woods, "the practice . . finds no higher warrant or sanction in the act of 1835 than in the act of 1876."
Such being the case, it matters not what the practice of the
department smay have been or how long continued, for it can
only be resorted to in aid of interpretation, and "it is not allowable to interpret what has no need of interpretation." If there
were ambiguity or doubt, then such a practice, begun so early
and continued so long, would be in the highest degree persuasive,
if not absolutely controlling in its effect. But with language
clear and precise and with its meaning evident there is no room
for construction, and consequently no need of anything to give
it aid. The cases to this effect are numerous. Ed'ward' Lessee
v. Darby, 12 Wheat. 206; United Statea v. Temile, uwpra;
Swo Co. v. United State, 105 U. S. 691 ; Ruggle8 v.
108 U. S. 526.

llinoi8,

he judgment is ajffrmed.

