OCTOBER TERBM, 1883.
Syllabus.

demption could only be applied after sale by the executor or
administrator in the ordinary course of administration, subject
to whatever liens may have been imposed upon it in the lifetime of the mortgagor. and among them, as we have seen, is
that of an execution creditor who has filed his bill to subject it
to the payment of his judgment. So, in other cases where the
rule of equality in distribution, as to equitable assets, applies,
as in cases of assignments by the debtor himself for the payment of debts generally, and in cases of bankruptcy and insolvency, except as otherwise expressly provided by statute, the
estate passes, subject to existing liens, including that of an execution creditor who had previously filed a bill to subject the
equitable interest of the debtor, and his priority is respected
and preserved. The lien is given by the court in the exercise
of its jurisdiction to entertain the bill and to grant the relief
prayed for; and to distribute the proceeds of the sale for the
benefit of others, equally with the execution creditor first filing
the bill, would be to contradict the very principle of the jurisdiction itself, and defeat the very remedy it promised; for the
fruits of litigation, according to the rule of equality, would
have to be divided, not only with other judgment and execution creditors, but, as well, with all creditors, whether their
claims had been reduced to judgment or not.
For these reason, the decree a2ppeaWe from is afflrmed.

CUTLER a. KOUNS & Another.

IN ERROR

TO THE CIRCUT COURT OF TIM MUTED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF

'EW YORE

Argued January 9th, 1884.-Decided larch 10th, I884.

.beflion.e.fridio

tapon T

.adz.

Under authority derived from §& of the act of July 2d, 1884,13 Stat. 875, and
the Treasury Regulation of May 9th, 1865, a treasury agent at New
Orleans took on the 6th of June, 1865. possession of cotton brought to New
Orleans, from Shreveport and from the State of Texas, and before releas-

CUTLER v. KOUNTS.
Statement of Facts.
ing it to the owners exacted the payment of one-fourth of its market value
in New York. Payment was made under protest by instalments, viz.:
June 12th, June 15th, and June 20th, 1865, and the money paid into the
treasury. June 13th, 1865, the President issued his proclamation removing
the restrictions upon trade east of the Mississippi, and on the 24th his
proclamation removing them from the country west of the Mississippi. On
the 1st of July, 1871, the owners of the cotton commenced suit against the
agent to recover the sums so paid. .dd, (1) That all cotton arriving at
New Orleans before the proclamation of June 13th, became thereby subject to the treasury regulation. (2) That the President could not exempt
it therefrom by proclamation subsequent to its arrival, and that the time
granted by the agent to make the payments had no effect upon the liability to make them.

(3) That the proclamation relating to trade east of

the Mississippi did not affect cotton arriving at New Orleans from the
country west of the river. (4) That the action was subject to the limitations prescribed by § 7 of the act of March 3d, 1863, 12 Stat. 757.

By section 3 of the act of July 13th, 1861, 12 Stat. 255, it was
enacted that it should be lawful for the President by proclamation to declare that the inhabitants of any State or part of
a State in rebellion against the United States were in a state
of insurrection, and that "thereupon all commercial intercourse
by and between the same and citizens thereof and the citizens
of the rest of the United States should cease and be unlawful so
long as such condition of hostilities should continue."
By his proclamation, dated August 16th, 1861,12 Stat. 1262,
the President declared, among others, the States of Louisiana
and Texas to be in a state of insurrection against the United
States (excepting such parts thereof as might, from time to time,
be occupied by the forces of the United States), and forbade all
commercial intercourse between the same and the inhabitants
thereof, with the exceptions aforesaid, and the citizens of other
States and other parts of the United States.
On April 26th, 1862, the city of New Orleans was occupied by
the forces of the United States, and remained in their possession until the close of the civil war. Prom the date named
New Orleans was, therefore, excepted from the operition of
the non-intercourse act.
In this state of affairs, on July 2d, 186k, an act of Congress
was passed, entitled "An Act in addition to the several acts
concerning commercial intercourse between loyal and insurO

x--46

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

rectionary States, and to provide for the collection of captured
and abandoned property, and the prevention of fraud in States
declared in insurrection." 13 Stat. 375. Section 8 of the act
provided as follows:
"That it shall be lawful for the Secretary of the Treasury,
with the approval of the President, to authorize agents to purchase for the United States any products of States declared in
insurrection, at such places therein as shall be designated by him,
at such prices as shall be agreed on with the seller, not exceeding
the market value thereof at the place of delivery, nor exceeding
three-fourths of the market value thereof in the city of New York,
at the latest "quotations known to the agent purchasing."
In pursuance of the authority thus conferred, the Secretary
of the Treasury designated certain cities, among them the city of
New Orleans, as places of purchase, and appointed purchasing
agents. By regulations dated May 9th, 1865, he directed that
to meet the requirements of the 8th section of the act of July
2d, 1864, the agents should receive all cotton brought to the
places designated as places of purchase, and forthwith return
to the seller three-fourths thereof, or retain out of the price
thereof the difference between three-fourths the market price
and the full price thereof in the city of New York.
While the statute and these regulations were in force, to wit,
on June 6th, 1865, the defendants in error, George L. Kouns
and John Kouns, brought to the city of New Orleans about nine
hundred bales of cotton, which they had caused to be transported, a part from near Shreveport, in the State of Louisiana,
and the residue from Jefferson, in the State of Texas. At the
time last mentioned, Cutler, the plaintiff in error, was the
purchasing agent in New Orleans appointed by the Secretary
of the Treasury. As such agent he took possession of the
cotton, and before releasing it to the plaintiffs in error exacted
from them the one-fourth of its market value in New York,
which they paid under protest. They paid the money in three
instalments-$13,691.92 oA June 12th; $7,200 on June 15th;
and $8,588.41 on June 20th. The money so paid was paid into
the treasury by Cutler.

CUTLER v. KOUNS.
Opinion of the CourL.
On July 1st, 1871, the defendants in error brought this suit
against Cutler to recover back the money so paid. Cutler set
up several defences, only two of which it is necessary to notice,
These were, first, that the seizure of the cotton and the exaction of the money paid to him were authorized by section 8 of
the act of July 2d, 1864, and the regulations of the Secretary of
the Treasury made in pursuance thereof; and, second, that the
suit was barred by the limitation enacted by section 7 of the
act of March 3d, 1863, entitled "An Act relating to habeas
corpus, and regulating judicial proceedings in certain cases."
12 Stat. 755.
Upon the trial of the case in the Circuit Court the defendant
Cutler moved the court to direct the jury to return a verdict
for him on the ground that the exaction of the money sued for
was lawful. The court refused to give this instruction. The
defendant also moved the court to direct the jury to return a
verdict for him on the ground that the action was barred by
section seven of the act of March 3d, 1863, because the suit had
not been commenced within two years after the wrong done to
redress which the suit was brought. This motion was also
denied, and the court instructed the jury that the plaintiffs
were entitled to recover the sum of $7,200 paid by them to the
defendant on June 15th, and the sum of $8,588.41 paid on June
20th, with interest.
In pursuance of this instruction the jury returned a verdict
for the plaintiffs for $29,679.55, for which the court rendered
judgment in their favor against the defendant.
This writ of error was prosecuted by the defendant, now the
plaintiff in error, to reverse that judgment.
-Mr. Solictor-GeneraZ for plaintiff in error.
-fr. Hen y C Blis and X. Henry S. NeaZ for defendants
in error.

Mfs. JusTic

WOODS delivered the opinion of the court.
The errors assigned are, first, the refusal of the Circuit Court
to direct a verdict for the defendant on the ground that the
money sued for was lawfully exacted from the defendants in

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

error; and, second, its refusal to give a similar direction on the
ground that the action was barred. We think both these assignments are well founded.
It is not disputed that on June 6th, 1865, when the cotton
was brought to New Orleans, th6 exaction by Cutler, the purchasing agent, of one-fourth its market value in the city of New
York was lawful, and that under the statutes and the treasury
regulations it was his duty to make it. The contention of the
defendants in error is that by the proclamation of the President
dated June 13th, 1865, the right of the purchasing agent to
buy the cotton in question at three-fourths its market price in
New York, or, what is in substance the same thing, to take
possession of the cotton and hold it until one-fourth of its
market value in New York was paid to him by the owner, was
taken away, and that after that date the exaction of one-fourth
the market price of the cotton was unlawful
The material part of the proclamation of June 13th, 1865,
was as follows:
"Now, therefore, be it known that I, Andrew Johnson, President of the United States, do hereby declare that all restrictions
upon internal, domestic and coastwise intercourse and trade, and
upon the removal of products of States heretofore declared in insurrection, reserving and excepting only those relating to contraband of war, as hereinafter recited, and also those which relate to
the reservation of the rights of the United States to property
purchased in the territory of an enemy, heretofore imposed in the
territory of the United States east of the Mfississippi River, are
annulled, and I do hereby direct that they be forthwith removed."
13 Stat. 763.

As throwing light upon the question in hand, it should be
stated that on June 24th, 1865, the President issued another
proclamation, which, after reciting that, "whereas it now seems
expedient and proper to remove restrictions upon internal, domestic, and coastwise trade and commercial intercourse between
and within the States and Territories west of the Mississippi
River," proceeded as follows:

CUTLER v. KOUNS.
Opinion of the Court.

"Now, therefore, be it known that I Andrew Johnson, President of the United States, do hereby declare that all restrictions
upon internal, domestic, and coastwise intercourse and trade, and
upon the purchase and removal of products of States and parts of
States and Territories heretofore declared in insurrection, lying
west of the Mississippi (except only, &c.), are annulled, and I do
hereby direct that they be forthwith removed." 13 Stat. 769.
The cotton in this case was the product of a country west of
the Mississippi River. It was brought to New Orleans under
authority of the act of July 2d, 1864r. When it arrived on June
6th it was subject to the exaction enforced by the plaintiff in
error. When the proclamation of June 13th was issued, a part
of the money due the United States had been paid. If the defendants in error were relieved from the payment of the residue
it was by virtue of that proclamation. Leaving out the parts
not applicable to this case, it declared "that all restrictions
deupon the removal of products of States . .
. .
.
heretofore imposed in the terclared in insurrection .
ritory of the United States east of the Mississippi River are
annulled." Its clearly expressed purpose was to annul the restrictions imposed upon the removal from the territory east of
the Mississippi River of the products of that territory.
If we adopt the view of the defendants in error it would follow that all cotton produced west of the Mississippi, which could
only be transported to New Orleans by virtue of the act of July
2d, 1864, and on the condition that it was there to be sold to a
purchasing agent, and to be subject to an exaction of one-fourth
its value, would the moment it arrived be relieved of all the
conditions imposed on it by the statute under authority of which
it was removed. In other words, the law imposing restrictions
upon the removal of cotton west of the Mississippi would have
been nullified bya proclamation of the President which applied
in terms only to the territory east of the Mississippi.
The policy of the President was not to remove, and he did
not remove, the restrictions upon products of the country west
of the Mississippi until his proclamation of June 24th. But the
defendants in error contend, in effect, that by transporting their

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court,.

cotton to a place east of the Mississippi, where they were under
the implied obligation to pay the United States one-fourth its
value, they can escape that exaction and get the benefit of the
repeal of the restrictions upon cotton grown east of the Mississippi River. But until the restrictions upon the removal of
cotton produced west of the Mississippi had been repealed,
such cotton, if removed from the place where it was grown,
would, while the restrictions were in force, remain subject
thereto, no matter what might be the regulations concerning
the produets of the place to which it was removed.
The proclamation of June 13th refers to places declared to be
in insurrection, and annuls restrictions placed upon the removal
from such places of the products thereof. The construction
contended for by the defendants in error would apply it to a
city not in insurrection but in the possession of the federal
forces, and to a place where the product was not grown, and
where no restrictions upon the removal of articles there produced were in force. Such, in our opinion, was not the effect
of the proclamation of June 13th.
There is another view of the question which also appears to
us to be conclusive. The money exacted by the plaintiff in error
from the defendants in error was paid into the treasury by
him. If he should be compelled to return it to the defendants
in error, the United States would in justice and honor be bound
to make him whole. The suit is, therefore, in substance and
effect, an action brought by the defendants in error against the
government to recover the money collected by its officers and
paid into its treasury, and is to be considered in that light.
We think the money sued for is the money of the United
States. When the cotton reached New Orleans on June 6th, it
was subject to an exaction of one-fourth its market value in
New York The owners had been allowed to bring in their
cotton upon the implied promise and understanding that they
would sell it to the government for three-fourths the market
price. Upon its arrival in New Orleans the rights of the government in the cotton became fixed. One-fourth its value was
as much the property of the government as the other threefourths were the property of the defendants in error. No

CUTLER v. KOUlNS.
Opinion of the Court.

proclamation of the President could transfer the property of
the government to them. The purchasing agent, for the accommodation of defendants in error, had allowed them to
pay the amount due the government in three instalments.
The fact that the proclamation intervened between the payment
of the first and the second instalments could not relieve the defendauts in error from the payment of money actually due to
the United States. The President had no more power to exonerate them from the payment of the sum due, than he has to
relieve an importer from the payment of duties on his imported
merchandise.
It follows, from these vievs, that the plaintiff in error had
authority under the law and regulations of the Treasury
Department to exact the money which the defendants in error
brought this suit to recover.
But even if the defendants in error had a good cause of
action, we are of opinion that the Circuit Court erred in
refusing to instruct the jury that it was barred by the limitation prescribed by section seven of the act of March 3d, 1863,
12 Stat. 755. That section provides:
"That no suit or'prosecution, civil or criminal, shall be maintained for any arrest or imprisonment made, or other trespasses
or wrongs done or committed, or act omitted to be done, at any
time during the present rebellion, by virtue or under color of any
authority derived from or exercised by or under the President of
the United States, or by or under any act of Congress, unless the

same shall have been commenced within two years next after
such arrest, imprisonment, trespass, or wrong may have been done
or committed, or act may have been omitted to be done: -Provided, That in no case shall the limitation herein provided commence to run until the passage of this act," &c., 12 Stat. 757.
The act of the plaintiff in error, which is charged in the
complaint to be a wrong inflicted by him upon the defendants
in error, was, as appears by the bill of exceptions, an act done
during the rebellion under color of authority derived from the
President of the United States and an act of Congress. The
bill of exceptions shows that the last of the two sums of money

OCTOBER TER3, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

for which the judgment was rendered was exacted on June
20th, 1865. This suit was not brought until July 1st, 1871. If,
therefore, the limitation relied on is applicable to this case, the
action was barred. The defendants in error insist, however,
that the limitation does not apply to the present action. Their
contention is that the suits barred are for arrests, imprisonments, and other crimes ejusdem, generis, and that the limitation only applies to trespasses upon and wrongs done the
Ferson, and not the property, of the plaintiff. In support of
this view they rely upon the rule, as their counsel state it, that
when general words follow particular words, the former must
be construed as applicable to the things or persons particularly
mentioned.
We think the construction insisted on is too narrow. The
rule of interpretation correctly stated is, that where particular
words of a statute are followed by general, the general words
are restricted in meaning to objects of -like kind with those
specified. Dwarris, 2d Ed. 621. But this rule, even if applicable to the statute under consideration, is subject to the qualification that general words will be construed more broadly than
specific, where such construction is clearly necessary to give
effect to the meaning of the legislature. Foster v. Blount, 18
Ala. 687; United States v. Briggs, 9 How. 351.
The 4th section of the statute of which the section under
consideration forms a part throws light upon the general purpose of Congress in its enactment. That section provides that
"any order of the President or under his authority made at any
time during the existence of the present rebellion shall be %
defence in all courts to any action or prosecution, civil or
criminal, pending or to be commenced, for any search, seizure,
arrest, or imprisonment, made, done, or committed, or acts.
omitted to be done, under and by virtue of such order, or under
color of any law of Congress." 12 Stat. 756.
It would be a strained construction to hold that, while § 4
expressly protected the paty who made a search, seizure, or
arrest, or subjected another to imprisonment under the order
of the President, § 7 applied the two years limitation to an
action brought to recover damages for the arrest or imprison-

UNITED STATES v. RYDER.
Syllabus.

ment, but not to an action brought to recover damages for
a search or seizure.
The general purpose of Congress in the passage of that act
appears plainly to have been to give a degree of protection to
all persons acting during the rebellion under authority of the
President or Congress of the United States. A construction
which gives the benefit of one of its provisions to parties
charged with offences against the person, and not to those
charged with wrongs and trespasses to the property of the
citizen, robs the act of a great part of its intended effect, and
is clearly unsound and untenable.
But it is unnecessary to discuss further this assignment of
error. The point has been expressly decided against the contention of the defendants in error by this court at the present
term in the case of Aitchel v. Clark, ante, 634, where it was
held that the limitation of the statute applied to wrongs to the
estate as well as to the arrest and imprisonment of the person
of the plaintiff.
The judgment of the Circuit Court must be reversed, and the
ease remanded to that court, with direction to ordera new •
trial.
MR. Jusec

FRELD did not sit in this case or take any part

in its decision.

UNITED STATES v. RYDER & Another.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF TE UNTED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.
Argued December 12th, 188a.-Decided March 10thb, 1884.

Subrogation-Reognzanc.
Without an express contract of indemnity a surety on a recognizance for the
appearance of a person cbarged with committing a criminal offence against
the laws of the United States, cannot maintain an action against the principal to recover any sums he may have been obliged to pay by reason of
forfeiture of the principal, and he is not entitled to be subrogated to the

