OCTOBER TERM, 1990
Per Curiam

498 U. S.

OHIO v. HUERTAS
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF OHIO
No. 89-1944.

Argued January 16, 1991-Decided January 22, 1991

Certiorari dismissed.
1058.

Reported below: 51 Ohio St. 3d 22, 553 N. E. 2d

JonathanE. Rosenbaum argued the cause and filed a brief
for petitioner.
Joann Bour-Stokes, by appointment of the Court, post,
p. 935, argued the cause for respondent. With her on the
brief were Randall M. Dana, Davis C. Stebbins, and Richard J. Vickers.*
PER CURIAM.

The writ of certiorari is dismissed as improvidently
granted.

*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the United States
by Solicitor General Starr, Assistant Attorney General Mueller, Deputy
Solicitor GeneralBryson, and Paul J. Larkin, Jr.; and for the Washington
Legal Foundation et al. by Daniel J. Popeo and Paul D. Kamenar.
Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the National Jury
Project by Samuel R. Gross; for the National Legal Aid and Defender Association by Jennifer P. Lyman; and for Barbara Babcock et al. by Louis
D. Bilionis and Richard A. Rosen.
Briefs of amici curiae were filed for the State of California by John K.
Van de Kamp, Attorney General, Richard B. Iglehart, Chief Assistant Attorney General, Harley D. Mayfield, Senior Assistant Attorney General,
Frederick R. Millar, Supervising Deputy Attorney General, and Jay M.
Bloom, Deputy Attorney General; for the Appellate Committee of the California District Attorneys Association by Ira Reiner, Harry B. Sondheim,
and Martha E. Bellinger; for Murder Victims' Families for Reconciliation
by Vivian Berger; and for the National Association of Criminal Defense
Lawyers et al. by Margery Malkin Koosed, Harry R. Reinhart, and Dennis Balske.

McDERMOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC. v. WILANDER

337

Syllabus

McDERMOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC. v. WILANDER
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FIFTH CIRCUIT
No. 89-1474.

Argued December 3, 1990-Decided February 19, 1991

Respondent Wilander, a paint foreman injured at work while assigned to a
"paint boat" chartered by petitioner McDermott International, Inc.,
sued McDermott under the Jones Act. The Act provides a cause of action in negligence for "any seaman" injured "in the course of his employment," but does not define "seaman." McDermott moved for summary
judgment, alleging that, as a matter of law, Wilander was not a "seaman." The District Court denied the motion, and the jury entered an
award for Wilander, finding, inter alia, that the performance of his duties contributed to his vessel's function or to the accomplishment of its
mission and therefore satisfied the Fifth Circuit's test for seaman status.
The Fifth Circuit affirmed, refusing to abandon its test in favor of the
Seventh Circuit's more stringent standard, which, in effect, requires
that a "seaman" aid in the navigation of the vessel.
Held: One need not aid in the navigation of a vessel in order to qualify as a
"seaman" under the Jones Act. Pp. 341-357.
(a) In the absence of contrary indication, it may be assumed that the
Jones Act's failure to define "seaman" indicates a congressional intent
that the word have its established meaning under general maritime law
at the time of the Act's passage. Pp. 341-342.
(b) At the time of its passage in 1920, the Jones Act established no
requirement that a seaman aid in navigation. Although certain early
cases had imposed such a requirement, a review of later cases demonstrates that, by 1920, general maritime law had abandoned that requirement in favor of a rule requiring only that a seaman be employed on
board a vessel in furtherance of its purpose. Pp. 343-346.
(c) The Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act
(LHWCA)-which was enacted in 1927 and provides recovery for injury
to a broad range of land-based maritime workers, but explicitly excludes
from its coverage "a master or member of a crew of any vessel"-does
not change the rule that a seaman need not aid in navigation. That Act
and the Jones Act are mutually exclusive, such that a "seaman" under
the Jones Act is the same as a "master or member of a crew of any vessel." Swanson v. Marra Brothers, Inc., 328 U. S. 1, 7. Although the
LHWCA exception thus refines the Jones Act term "seaman," restrict-

