1306

OCTOBER TERM, 1990
Opinion in Chambers

498 U. S.

MISSISSIPPI v. TURNER
ON APPLICATION FOR EXTENSION OF TIME WITHIN WHICH TO
FILE PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI
No. A-661.

Decided March 2, 1991

Mississippi has failed to show that a reduction in its appellate staff caused
by budgetary cuts constitutes "good cause shown" under this Court's
Rule 13.2, since it has not resulted from events unforeseen and uncontrollable by both counsel and client. Like any other litigant, the State
must choose between hiring more attorneys and taking fewer appeals.
JUSTICE SCALIA,

Circuit Justice.

In this case, the State of Mississippi has requested a 30-day
extension of time within which to file a petition for a writ of
certiorari to the Mississippi Supreme Court. The State submits that the extension is required due to "state budgetary
cuts," which have resulted in a reduction in appellate staff.
The law states that the "time for appeal or application for a
writ of certiorari to review the judgment of a State court in a
criminal case shall be as prescribed by rules of the Supreme
Court." 28 U. S. C. ยง2101(d). Those Rules provide that
"[a] petition for a writ of certiorari to review a judgment in
any case, civil or criminal, entered by a state court of last resort .

..

shall be deemed in time when it is filed with the

Clerk of this Court within 90 days after the entry of judgment," Rule 13.1. This period may be extended by a Justice
of this Court "for good cause shown" for a period not to exceed 60 days, Rule 13.2, but an application for such an extension "is not favored," Rule 13.6.
In my view, counsel's overextended caseload is not "good
cause shown" unless it is the result of events unforeseen and
uncontrollable by both counsel and client. That is not so
here. Like any other litigant, the State of Mississippi must
choose between hiring more attorneys and taking fewer ap-

MISSISSIPPI v. TURNER
1306

1307

Opinion in Chambers

peals. Its budget allocations cannot, and I am sure were not
expected to, alter this Court's filing requirements.
The application is denied.
It is so ordered.

