OCTOBER TERM, 1990
Per Curiam

498 U. S.

PERRY v. LOUISIANA
CERTIORARI TO THE 19TH JUDICIAL DISTRICT COURT OF
LOUISIANA
No. 89-5120.

Argued October 2, 1990-Decided November 13, 1990

Vacated and remanded.

Keith B. Nordyke argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the brief were June E. Denlinger and Joe Giarrusso,
Jr.
Rene I. Salomon, Assistant Attorney General of Louisiana, argued the cause for respondent. With him on the brief
were William J. Guste, Jr., Attorney General, and M. Patricia Jones, Assistant Attorney General.*
PER CURIAM.

The judgment is vacated and the case is remanded to the
19th Judicial District Court of Louisiana for further consideration in light of Washington v. Harper,494 U. S. 210 (1990).
It is so ordered.
JUSTICE SOUTER

took no part in the consideration or deci-

sion of this case.

*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed by the American Psychiatric Association et al. by Joel L. Klein, Joseph N. Onek, Richard G.
Taranto, CarterG. Phillips, and Kirk B. Johnson; and for the Coalition for
Fundamental Rights and Equality of Ex-patients by Peter Margulies.

CAGE v. LOUISIANA

Per Curiam

CAGE v. LOUISIANA
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME
COURT OF LOUISIANA
No. 89-7302.

Decided November 13, 1990

The Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment "protects the accused against conviction except upon proof beyond a reasonable doubt of
every fact necessary to constitute the crime with which he is charged."
In re Winship, 397 U. S.358, 364. Petitioner Cage was convicted in
Louisiana of first-degree murder and was sentenced to death. In his
trial's guilt phase, the jury was instructed that guilt must be found beyond a reasonable doubt, that reasonable doubt was "such doubt as
would give rise to a grave uncertainty" and "an actual substantial
doubt," and that what was required was a "moral certainty." In affirming Cage's conviction, the State Supreme Court rejected his argument
that, inter alia, the instruction violated the Due Process Clause and concluded that, "taking the charge as a whole," reasonable persons would
understand the reasonable-doubt definition.
Held: The instruction was contrary to the "beyond a reasonable doubt" requirement articulated in Winship. The words "substantial" and "grave"
suggest a higher degree of doubt than is required for acquittal under the
reasonable-doubt standard. When those statements are then considered with the reference to "moral," rather than evidentiary, certainty, a
reasonable juror, taking the charge as a whole, could have interpreted
the instruction to allow a finding of guilt based on a degree of proof below
that required by the Due Process Clause.
Certiorari granted; 554 So. 2d 39, reversed and remanded.
PER CURIAM.

The motion of petitioner for leave to proceed informa pauperis and the petition for a writ of certiorari are granted.
In state criminal trials, the Due Process Clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment "protects the accused against conviction except upon proof beyond a reasonable doubt of every
fact necessary to constitute the crime with which he is
charged." in re Winship, 397 U. S. 358, 364 (1970); see also
Jackson v. Virginia, 443 U. S. 307, 315-316 (1979). This
reasonable-doubt standard "plays a vital role in the American

