OPINIONS OF INDIVIDUAL JUSTICE
IN CHAMBERS

MADDEN v. TEXAS
ON APPLICATION FOR EXTENSION OF TIME WITHIN WHICH TO
FILE PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI
No. A-626.

Decided February 20, 1991*

Good cause is found to grant 30-day extensions of time to file petitions for
writs of certiorari to the Court of Criminal Appeals of Texas in
Nos. A-627, A-628, and A-635, where applicants, who are under death
sentences, have requested the opportunity to find replacement counsel
following the withdrawal of their appellate counsel. Such an excuse
does not automatically justify an extension of time without regard to its
basis or predictability. There is even greater need to reject an automatic rule in capital cases, because a lawyer should not be burdened with
the knowledge that his client's appeal could be lengthened if he withdraws from the case. Nonetheless, good cause is found as to these petitions, since JUSTICE SCALIA only became the Circuit Justice for the Fifth
Circuit at the beginning of the current Term, since he has not had the
opportunity in such capacity to set forth his views on the application of
the "good cause" standard, and since his views may be more restrictive
than what the Circuit bar has been accustomed to. However, there is
inadequate cause to extend the time limit in No. A-626, because it would
extend the filing period beyond applicant Madden's scheduled execution
date. Such an extension is either futile or will disrupt the State's orderly administration of justice and, thus, is not an appropriate action for
a Circuit Justice to take.

Circuit Justice.
In each of these four cases, a lawyer affiliated with the

JUSTICE SCALIA,

Texas Resource Center, on behalf of an applicant convicted of
capital murder and sentenced to death, has requested a 60*Together with No. A-627, DeBlanc v. Texas, No. A-628, Goodwin v.
Texas, and No. A-635, Hammond v. Texas, also on applications for extension of time.
1301

OCTOBER TERM, 1990
Opinion in Chambers

498 U. S.

day extension of time in which to file a petition for a writ of
certiorari to the Court of Criminal Appeals of Texas.
In No. A-626, the Texas court issued an opinion affirming
the conviction and sentence of Robert Madden on September
12, 1990, and denied a petition for rehearing on November
28, 1990. The stated reason for the present extension request is that Madden's appellate counsel "has never before
prepared a certiorari petition on a capital case" and requires
the assistance of the Resource Center "to assist him and provide him with sufficient guidance to ensure that the important constitutional issues in [the] case are properly researched and presented to this Court." Madden is scheduled
to be executed on February 28, 1991.
In No. A-627, the Texas court issued an opinion affirming
the conviction and sentence of David Wayne DeBlanc on October 24, 1990, and denied a petition for rehearing on November 28, 1990. The stated reason for the present extension
request is that "[f]ollowing the affirmance of [applicant's] conviction and sentence on appeal, Eden E. Harrington of the
Texas Resource Center learned that [applicant's] appellate
counsel, Craig Washington, would no longer represent Mr.
DeBlanc because Mr. Washington is now a member of the
United States Congress. The Texas Resource Center has
tried to locate new volunteer counsel for [applicant] since November, 1990, but no new counsel has yet been located."
DeBlanc's execution has not yet been scheduled.
In No. A-628, the Texas court issued an opinion affirming
the conviction and sentence of Alvin Urial Goodwin on October 24, 1990, and denied a petition for rehearing on November 28, 1990. The stated reason for the present extension
request is that "[f]ollowing the affirmance of [applicant's] conviction and sentence on appeal, [applicant's] appellate counsel, John D. McDonald, notified Eden E. Harrington of the
Texas Resource Center that he could no longer represent Mr.
Goodwin due to conflicting employment. The Texas Resource Center has tried to locate new volunteer counsel for

