CONNECTICUT v. BARRETT
Syllabus

CONNECTICUT v. BARRETT
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF CONNECTICUT
No. 85-899.

Argued December 9, 1986-Decided January 27, 1987

Respondent, while in custody on suspicion of sexual assault, was three
times advised by the police of his Miranda rights. On each occasion,
after signing and dating an acknowledgment that he had been given
those rights, respondent indicated to the police that he would not make a
written statement, but that he was willing to talk about the incident that
led to his arrest. On the second and third such occasions, he added that
he would not make a written statement outside the presence of counsel,
and then orally admitted his involvement in the sexual assault. One of
the police officers reduced to writing his recollection of respondent's last
such statement, and the confession was introduced into evidence at respondent's trial. The trial court refused to suppress the confession,
finding that respondent had fully understood the Mirandawarnings and
had voluntarily waived his right to counsel. Respondent's conviction of
sexual assault, inter alia, was reversed by the Connecticut Supreme
Court which held that his expressed desire for counsel before making a
written statement constituted an invocation of his right to counsel for all
purposes, that he had not waived that right by initiating further discussion with the police, and that therefore the incriminating statement was
improperly admitted into evidence under Edwards v. Arizona, 451 U. S.
477.
Held: The Constitution did not require suppression of respondent's incriminating statement. Pp. 527-530.
(a) Respondent's statements to the police made clear his willingness to
talk about the sexual assault, and, there being no evidence that he was
"threatened, tricked, or cajoled" into speaking to the police, the trial
court properly found that his decision to do so constituted a voluntary
waiver of his right to counsel. Although the Miranda rules were designed to protect defendants from being compelled by the government to
make statements, they also give defendants the right to choose between
speech and silence. Pp. 527-529.
(b) Respondent's invocation of his right to counsel was limited by its
terms to the making of written statements, and did not prohibit all further discussion with police. Requests for counsel must be given broad,
all-inclusive effect only when the defendant's words, understood as ordinary people would understand them, are ambiguous. Here, respondent

OCTOBER TERM, 1986
Syllabus

479 U. S.

clearly and unequivocally expressed his willingness to speak to police
about the sexual assault. Pp. 529-530.
(c) The distinction drawn by respondent between oral and written
statements did not indicate an understanding so incomplete as to render
his limited invocation of the right to counsel effective for all purposes.
To so hold would contravene his testimony, and the trial court's finding,
that he fully understood his Miranda warnings, including the warning
that anything he said to police could be used against him. A defendant's
ignorance of the full consequences of his decisions does not vitiate their
voluntariness. P. 530.
197 Conn. 50, 495 A. 2d 1044, reversed and remanded.
REHNQUIST, C. J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which WHITE,
BLACKMUN, POWELL, O'CONNOR, and SCALIA, JJ., joined. BRENNAN, J.,
filed an opinion concurring in the judgment, post, p. 530. STEVENS, J.,
filed a dissenting opinion, in which MARSHALL, J., joined, post, p. 536.

Julia DiCocco Dewey, Assistant State's Attorney of Connecticut, argued the cause and filed a brief for petitioner.
Charles A. Rothfeld argued the cause for the United
States as amicus curiae urging reversal. With him on the
brief were Solicitor General Fried, Assistant Attorney General Trott, and Deputy Solicitor General Bryson.
Robert L. Genuario argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief was John F. Kavanewsky, Jr.*
*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the State of
Alaska et al. by David Crump and by the Attorneys General for their respective States as follows: Harold M. Brown of Alaska, Robert K. Corbin
of Arizona, John Steven Clark of Arkansas, John K. Van de Kamp of California, Duane Woodard of Colorado, James T. Jones of Idaho, Linley E.
Pearson of Indiana, David L. Armstrong of Kentucky, William J. Guste,
Jr., of Louisiana, FrankJ. Kelley of Michigan, Hubert H. Humphrey III of
Minnesota, Edwin L. Pittman of Mississippi, William L. Webster of Missouri, Lacy H. Thornburg of North Carolina, LeRoy S. Zimmerman of
Pennsylvania, T. Travis Medlock of South Carolina, Mark V. Meierhenry
of South Dakota, Mary Sue Terry of Virginia, Kenneth 0. Eikenberry of
Washington, and Bronson C. La Follette of Wisconsin; and for the National
District Attorneys Association by Robert S. Marsel, Jack E. Yelverton,
and James P. Manak.

CONNECTICUT v. BARRETT
523

Opinion of the Court

CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Respondent William Barrett was convicted after a jury
trial of sexual assault, unlawful restraint, and possession of a
controlled substance. The Connecticut Supreme Court reversed the convictions.
It held that incriminating statements made by Barrett should have been suppressed under
our decision in Edwards v. Arizona, 451 U. S. 477 (1981),
because Barrett, though stating his willingness to speak to
police, had indicated that he would not make a written statement outside the presence of counsel. 197 Conn. 50, 495 A.
2d 1044 (1985). We granted certiorari to consider the federal constitutional issues presented by this holding. 476
U. S. 1114 (1986). We reverse.
In the early morning of October 24, 1980, Barrett was
transported from New Haven, Connecticut, to Wallingford,
where he was a suspect in a sexual assault that had occurred
the previous evening. Upon arrival at the Wallingford police station, Officer Peter Cameron advised Barrett of his
rights, and Barrett signed and dated an acknowledgment
that he had received the warnings required by Miranda v.
Arizona, 384 U. S. 436 (1966).
Barrett stated that "he
would not give the police any written statements but he had
no problem in talking about the incident." App. 12A.
Approximately 30 minutes later, Barrett was questioned
by Officer Cameron and Officer John Genovese. Before this
questioning, he was again advised of his Miranda rights and
signed a card acknowledging that he had been read the
rights. Respondent stated that he understood his rights,
and told the officers that he would not give a written statement unless his attorney was present but had "no problem"
talking about the incident. Id., at 21A. Barrett then gave
an oral statement admitting his involvement in the sexual
assault.
After discovering that a tape recorder used to preserve the
statement had malfunctioned, the police conducted a second

OCTOBER TERM, 1986

Opinion of the Court

479 U. S.

interview. For the third time, Barrett was advised of his
Miranda rights by the Wallingford police, and once again
stated that "he was willing to talk about [the incident] verbally but he did not want to put anything in writing until his
attorney came." Id., at 44A. He then repeated to the police his confession regarding the previous evening's events.
When the officers discovered that their tape recorder had
again failed to record the statement, Officer Cameron reduced to writing his recollection of respondent's statement.
The trial court, after a suppression hearing, held that the
confession was admissible. It found that respondent not
only indicated that he understood the warnings, but also "offered the statements that he did not need anything explained
to him because he understood. So it was not merely a passive acquiescence. . .

."

Id., at 70A.

Barrett's decision to

make no written statement without his attorney "indicate[d]
to the Court that he certainly understood from having his
rights read to him that ...he was under no obligation to give

any statement." Ibid. The court held that Barrett had
voluntarily waived his right to counsel and thus allowed
testimony at trial as to the content of Barrett's statement.
Barrett took the stand in his own defense and testified that
he had understood his rights as they were read to him. Id.,
at 130A. He was convicted and sentenced to a prison term
of 9 to 18 years.
The Connecticut Supreme Court reversed the conviction,
holding that respondent had invoked his right to counsel by
refusing to make written statements without the presence of
his attorney. In the court's view, Barrett's expressed desire
for counsel before making a written statement served as an
invocation of the right for all purposes:
"The fact that the defendant attached his request for
counsel to the making of a written statement does not affect the outcome of ... our inquiry.

No particular form

of words has ever been required to trigger an individual's fifth amendment protections; nor have requests for

CONNECTICUT v. BARRETT
523

Opinion of the Court

counsel been narrowly construed. The defendant's refusal to give a written statement without his attorney
present was a clear request for the assistance of counsel
to protect his rights in his dealings with the police.
Such a request continues to be constitutionally effective
despite the defendant's willingness to make oral statements. We conclude, therefore, that the defendant did
invoke his right to counsel under the fifth and fourteenth
amendments." 197 Conn., at 57, 495 A. 2d, at 1049 (citations omitted).
This invocation, the court believed, brought the case within
what it called the "bright-line rule for establishing a waiver of
this right." Id., at 58, 495 A. 2d, at 1049. That rule requires a finding that the suspect "(a) initiated further discussions with the police, and (b) knowingly and intelligently
waived the right he had invoked." Smith v. Illinois, 469
U. S. 91, 95 (1984) (percuriam). See also Edwards, supra,
at 485, 486, n. 9. Because Barrett had not initiated further
discussions with police, the court found his statement improperly admitted.
We think that the Connecticut Supreme Court erred in
holding that the United States Constitution required suppression of Barrett's statement. Barrett made clear to police his willingness to talk about the crime for which he was a
suspect. The trial court found that this decision was a voluntary waiver of his rights, and there is no evidence that Barrett was "threatened, tricked, or cajoled" into this waiver.
Miranda, 384 U. S., at 476. The Connecticut Supreme
Court nevertheless held as a matter of law' that respond' The Connecticut Supreme Court noted in its opinion that the trial court
"impliedly found that the defendant had requested counsel." 197 Conn.
50, 56, 495 A. 2d 1044, 1048 (1985). This statement does not suggest, however, that the request for counsel was in fact all-inclusive, and the Supreme
Court expressly noted the trial court's finding that defendant had refused
to give a written statement without his attorney present. Id., at 56, n. 6,
495 A. 2d, at 1048, n. 6. The holding that Barrett had invoked his right to

OCTOBER TERM, 1986
Opinion of the Court

479 U. S.

ent's limited invocation of his right to counsel prohibited all
interrogation absent initiation of further discussion by Barrett. Nothing in our decisions, however, or in the rationale
of Miranda,requires authorities to ignore the tenor or sense
of a defendant's response to these warnings.
The fundamental purpose of the Court's decision in
Miranda was "to assure that the individual's right to choose
between speech and silence remains unfettered throughout
the interrogation process." Id., at 469 (emphasis added).
See also Moran v. Burbine, 475 U. S. 412, 426 (1986)
("Miranda attempted to reconcile [competing] concerns by
giving the defendant the power to exert some control over
the course of the interrogation") (emphasis in original); Oregon v. Elstad, 470 U. S. 298, 308 (1985) ("Once warned, the
suspect is free to exercise his own volition in deciding
whether or not to make a statement to the authorities") (emphasis added). To this end, the Miranda Court adopted prophylactic rules designed to insulate the exercise of Fifth
Amendment rights from the government "compulsion, subtle
or otherwise," that "operates on the individual to overcome
free choice in producing a statement after the privilege has
been once invoked." Miranda, supra, at 474. See also
Smith, supra, at 98; Oregon v. Bradshaw, 462 U. S. 1039,
1044 (1983). One such rule requires that, once the accused
"states that he wants an attorney, the interrogation must
cease until an attorney is present." Miranda, supra, at
474. See also Edwards, 451 U. S., at 484. It remains clear,
however, that this prohibition on further questioning-like
other aspects of Miranda-isnot itself required by the Fifth
Amendment's prohibition on coerced confessions, but is instead justified only by reference to its prophylactic purpose.
See New York v. Quarles, 467 U. S. 649, 654 (1984). By
prohibiting further interrogation after the invocation of these
rights, we erect an auxiliary barrier against police coercion.
counsel, then, rests on a legal conclusion about the effect of his limited invocation rather than on a factual finding.

CONNECTICUT v. BARRETT
523

Opinion of the Court

But we know of no constitutional objective that would be
served by suppression in this case. It is undisputed that
Barrett desired the presence of counsel before making a written statement. Had the police obtained such a statement
without meeting the waiver standards of Edwards, it would
clearly be inadmissible. 2 Barrett's limited requests for
counsel, however, were accompanied by affirmative announcements of his willingness to speak with the authorities.
The fact that officials took the opportunity provided by Barrett to obtain an oral confession is quite consistent with the
Fifth Amendment. Miranda gives the defendant a right to
choose between speech and silence, and Barrett chose to
speak.
The Connecticut Supreme Court's decision to the contrary
rested on the view that requests for counsel are not to be narrowly construed. 197 Conn., at 57, 495 A. 2d, at 1049. In
support of this premise, respondent observes that our prior
decisions have given broad effect to requests for counsel that
were less than all-inclusive.
See Bradshaw, supra, at
1041-1042 ("I do want an attorney before it goes very much
further"); Edwards, supra, at 479 ("I want an attorney before making a deal"). We do not denigrate the "settled approach to questions of waiver [that] requires us to give a
broad, rather than a narrow, interpretation to a defendant's
request for counsel," Michigan v. Jackson, 475 U. S. 625,
633 (1986), when we observe that this approach does little to
aid respondent's cause.
Interpretation is only required
where the defendant's words, understood as ordinary people
would understand them, are ambiguous. Here, however,
Barrett made clear his intentions, and they were honored by
police.' To conclude that respondent invoked his right to
I Because the attempts to record Barrett's statements were unsuccessful, we have no occasion to consider whether the result would be different
if police had taped the statements and used the recording against Barrett.
ISince we reject the claim that Barrett's statements represent an
ambiguous or equivocal response to the Miranda warnings, there is no

OCTOBER TERM, 1986
BRENNAN,

J., concurring in judgment

479 U. S.

counsel for all purposes requires not a broad interpretation
of an ambiguous statement, but a disregard of the ordinary
meaning of respondent's statement.
We also reject the contention that the distinction drawn by
Barrett between oral and written statements indicates an understanding of the consequences so incomplete that we should
deem his limited invocation of the right to counsel effective for
all purposes. This suggestion ignores Barrett's testimonyand the finding of the trial court not questioned by the Connecticut Supreme Court-that respondent fully understood
the Miranda warnings. These warnings, of course, made
clear to Barrett that "[i]f you talk to any police officers, anything you say can and will be used against you in court."
App. at 48A. The fact that some might find Barrett's decision illogical 4 is irrelevant, for we have never "embraced the
theory that a defendant's ignorance of the full consequences
of his decisions vitiates their voluntariness." Elstad, supra,
at 316; Colorado v. Spring, post, p. 564.
For the reasons stated, the judgment of the Connecticut
Supreme Court is reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
concurring in the judgment.
I concur in the judgment that the Constitution does not require the suppression of Barrett's statements to the police,
but for reasons different from those set forth in the opinion of
the Court. Barrett's contemporaneous waiver of his right to
silence and limited invocation of his right to counsel (for the
JUSTICE BRENNAN,

need for us to address the question left open in Smith v. Illinois, 469 U. S.
91, 96, n. 3 (1984) (percuriam).
IWe do not suggest that the distinction drawn by Barrett is in fact illogical, for there may be several strategic reasons why a defendant willing to
speak to the police would still refuse to write out his answers to questions,
or to sign a transcript of his answers prepared by the police, a statement
that may be used against him.

CONNECTICUT v. BARRETT
523

BRENNAN,

J., concurring in judgment

purpose of making a written statement) suggested that he
did not understand that anything he said could be used
against him. However, the State eliminated this apparent
ambiguity when it demonstrated that Barrett's waiver of his
right to silence was voluntary, knowing, and intelligent.
Barrett testified at trial that he understood his Miranda
rights, i. 'e., he knew that he need not talk to the police without a lawyer present and that anything he said could be used
against him. Under these circumstances, the waiver of the
right to silence and the limited invocation of the right to counsel were valid.
I
In Miranda v. Arizona, 384 U. S. 436 (1966), the Court
held that custodial interrogation is inherently coercive and
that a defendant must receive detailed warnings that he or
she has the rights to remain silent and to receive assistance of
counsel before and during questioning. A statement obtained from a defendant during custodial interrogation is admissible only if the State carries its "heavy burden" of establishing that a defendant has executed a valid waiver of the
privilege against self-incrimination and the right to counsel.
Id., at 475. To do so, the State must demonstrate "an intentional relinquishment or abandonment of a known right or
privilege." Johnson v. Zerbst, 304 U. S. 458, 464 (1938); see
Miranda, supra, at 475-479. In making this determination,
courts must examine "the particular facts and circumstances
surrounding that case, including the background, experience,
and conduct of the accused." Johnson v. Zerbst, supra,
at 464.
The language and tenor of the Miranda opinion suggested
that the Court would require that a waiver of the rights at
stake be "specifically made." See 384 U. S., at 470. While
the Court retreated from that position in North Carolinav.
Butler, 441 U. S. 369, 373 (1979), I continue to believe that
the Court should require the police to obtain an "'affirmative
waiver' of Miranda rights before proceeding with interro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1986
BRENNAN,

J., concurring in judgment

479 U. S.

gation. See id., at 377 (quoting Carnley v. Cochran, 369
U. S. 506, 516 (1962)).
In this case, Barrett affirmatively waived his Miranda
rights. Unlike the defendant in Butler, Barrett orally expressed his willingness to talk with the police and willingly
signed a form indicating that he understood his rights. The
police obtained an explicit oral waiver of the right to silence.
Furthermore, the officer who administered the Miranda
warnings to Barrett testified that the latter understood his
rights "[c]ompletely": "I asked [Barrett] several times during
my administration of those rights, if, in fact, he understood
them; if there were points he wanted me to clarify, and he
indicated to me, no, he understood everything fairly well."
Tr. 452. At trial, one issue was whether Barrett voluntarily, knowingly, and intelligently waived his Miranda
rights, and Barrett himself testified that he understood his
rights as they were read to him. Id., at 879-880.1
Had the State been without Barrett's testimony at trial,
where he was represented by counsel, I could not reach this
conclusion. Barrett's statement to police-that he would
talk to them, but allow nothing in writing without counselcreated doubt about whether he actually understood that
anything he said could be used against him. In other words,
the statement is not, on its face, a knowing and intelligent
waiver of the right to silence.2 As a general matter, I be1The

trial judge denied Barrett's motion to suppress the statements
made following administration of the Miranda warnings, holding:
"[T]he Court concludes from the evidence it heard that [Barrett] indicated he understood perfectly what was being read to him. Not only did
he indicate that he understood, he offered the statements that he did not
need anything explained to him because he understood. So it was not
merely a passive acquiescence and his agreement that he understood, he
did go on to explain that he did not need anything explained to him because
he perfectly understood." App. 70A.
'The Court states that "'a defendant's ignorance of the full consequences of his decisions'" would not "'vitiat[e] their voluntariness.'"
Ante, at 530 (quoting Oregon v. Elstad, 470 U. S. 298, 316 (1985)). I do
not accept that a defendant could voluntarily, knowingly, or intelligently

CONNECTICUT v. BARRETT
523

BRENNAN,

J., concurring in judgment

lieve that this odd juxtaposition (a willingness to talk and an
unwillingness to have anything preserved) militates against
finding a knowing or intelligent waiver of the right to silence.
See Butler, supra, at 378 ("[T]here is no reason to believe
that [the defendant's] oral statements, which followed a refusal to sign a written waiver form, were intended to signify
relinquishment of his rights").3 But Barrett's testimony revealed that he understood that he had rights to remain silent
and to have an attorney present, and that anything he said
could be used against him; nevertheless he chose to speak.
In sum, the State has carried its "heavy burden" of demonstrating waiver. It has shown that Barrett received the
Miranda warnings, that he had the capacity to understand
them 4 and in fact understood them, and that he expressly
waive a right that he or she does not understand to exist. Cf. Schneckloth
v. Bustamonte, 412 U. S. 218, 277 (1973) (BRENNAN, J., dissenting) ("The
Court holds today that an individual can effectively waive this right [to be
secure against an unreasonable search] even though he is totally ignorant
of the fact that, in the absence of his consent, such invasions of privacy
would be constitutionally prohibited. It wholly escapes me how our citizens can meaningfully be said to have waived something as precious as a
constitutional guarantee without ever being aware of its existence"); ibid.
(MARSHALL, J., dissenting) ("I would have thought that the capacity to
choose necessarily depends upon knowledge that there is a choice to be
made. But today the Court reaches the curious result that one can choose
to relinquish a constitutional right-the right to be free of unreasonable
searches -without knowing that he has the alternative of refusing to accede to a police request to search").
ISee also 1 W. LaFave & J. Israel, Criminal Procedure ยง 6.9(f),
pp. 534-535 (1984 ed.) ("[T]he Butler facts certainly suggest that the defendant misperceived the effect of a waiver which was oral rather than
written. Under such circumstances, there is much to be said for the view
that the police are under an obligation to clear up misunderstandings of this
nature which are apparent to any reasonable observer. Short of this, it
certainly makes sense to conclude that the defendant's conduct should significantly increase the prosecution's burden to overcome the presumption
against waiver of the Miranda rights").
I It is undisputed that the defendant here, unlike the defendant in Butler, had the capacity to understand his rights: the police ascertained that
Barrett had a 12th-grade education, Tr. 458, while in Butler there was a

OCTOBER TERM, 1986
BRENNAN,

J., concurring in judgment

479 U. S.

waived his right to silence, saying that he "had no problem in
talking about the incident." Tr. 452; see also id., at 461-462,
490-491, 674. In my view, each of these findings was essential to the conclusion that a voluntary, knowing, and intelligent waiver of the Miranda rights occurred.
II
Barrett argues that his refusal to make a written statement without an attorney present constituted an invocation
of the right to counsel for all purposes and that any further
interrogation after this mention of his desire for an attorney
was impermissible under Edwards v. Arizona, 451 U. S. 477
(1981). It is settled that any plain reference, however glancing, to a need or a desire for representation must result in the
cessation of questioning. See Miranda, 384 U. S., at 444445 (questioning must cease when the accused "indicates in
any manner and at any stage of the process that he wishes to
consult with an attorney before speaking"); Smith v. Illinois,
469 U. S. 91 (1984) (per curiam).
I believe that a partial invocation of the right to counsel,
without more, invariably will be ambiguous. It gives rise to
doubts about the defendant's precise wishes regarding representation and about his or her understanding of the nature
and scope of the right to counsel. Thus, the police may not
infer from a partial invocation of the right to counsel alone
that the defendant has waived any of his or her rights not
specifically invoked.
However, circumstances may clarify an otherwise ambiguous situation. If the partial invocation is accompanied by an
explicit waiver of the right to silence that is voluntary, knowing, and intelligent, it may lose its ambiguity.5 It may bedispute over whether the defendant could read. North Carolina v. Butler, 441 U. S. 369, 378 (1979).
5
1In order for a valid waiver and partial invocation of the right to counsel
to occur, the accused must effect them contemporaneously. In Smith v.
Illinois, 469 U. S. 91 (1984) (per curiam), the Court considered a defendant's plain request for counsel that had been closely followed by statements

CONNECTICUT v. BARRETT
523

BRENNAN,

J., concurring in judgment

come clear that the portion of the right to counsel that was
not invoked was in fact waived, when, for example, a knowing and intelligent waiver of the right to silence necessarily includes a waiver of the right to have counsel present at
questioning. This is such a case.6 Here Barrett's limited
invocation was not ambiguous: It was accompanied by an express waiver of his right to silence, the validity of which was
plainly established by his subsequent trial testimony. The
accompaniment of Barrett's reference to his limited desire
for counsel with an explicit waiver of his right to silence
rendered permissible the authorities' use of his statements.'
For these reasons, I concur in the judgment of the Court.
rendering equivocal or ambiguous his first request. The State Supreme
Court determined that the defendant's statements, considered as a totality, were ambiguous and therefore did not invoke his right to counsel. We
held that "an accused's postrequest responses to further interrogation may
not be used to cast retrospective doubt on the clarity of the initial request
itself." Id., at 100. Thus, if the initial request for counsel is clear, as it
was here, the police may not create ambiguity in a defendant's desire by
continuing to question him or her about it.
'See also United States v. Jardina,747 F. 2d 945, 949 (CA5 1984) (The
defendant stated "without the slightest ambiguity that he would then and
there answer some questions but not others" and "clearly indicated that he
wished his attorney to work out a cooperative deal with the government in
the future." The Court of Appeals found that these combined statements
"did not invoke any present right to counsel").
IIt is undisputed that "[h]ad the police obtained [a written] statement
without meeting the waiver standards of Edwards [v. Arizona, 451 U. S.
477 (1981)], it would clearly be inadmissible." Ante, at 529. Barrett's invocation of his rights dcmonstrates that he opposed any immediate preservation of statements made without counsel. If the attempt to tape
Barrett's statements had succeeded, the recording would have been
inadmissible.
In addition, the police attempted to persuade Barrett to waive the right
he had asserted not to make a written statement without the assistance of
counsel, not once, but twice, absent any indication from Barrett that he
had changed his mind on this point. Tr. 689 ("Sergeant Genovese at the
first [questioning] and Lieutenant Howard at the second inquired whether
or not he had changed his mind [about reducing his statements to writing]"); see also id., at 521. In Edwards v. Arizona, 451 U. S., at 484-485,

OCTOBER TERM, 1986
STEVENS,

JUSTICE STEVENS,

J., dissenting

479 U. S.

with whom JUSTICE MARSHALL joins,

dissenting.
The Court's disposition of this case raises two troublesome
questions.
First, why did the Court decide to exercise its discretion to
grant review in this case? The facts of the case are surely
unique. They do not give rise to any issue of general or recurring significance. There is no conflict among the state or
federal courts on how the narrow question presented should
be resolved. It is merely a case in which one State Supreme
Court arguably granted more protection to a citizen accused
of crime than the Federal Constitution requires.' The State
"asks us to rule that the state court interpreted federal rights
too broadly and 'overprotected' the citizen." Michigan v.
Long, 463 U. S. 1032, 1068 (1983) (STEVENS, J., dissenting).
If this is a sufficient reason for adding a case to our already
overcrowded docket, we will need, not one, but several
newly fashioned "intercircuit tribunals" to keep abreast of
our work.
Second, why was respondent's request for the assistance of
counsel any less ambiguous than the request in Edwards v.
Arizona, 451 U. S. 477 (1981)? In that case, the defendant
said that he wanted an attorney "'before making a deal."'
we held that once an accused invokes the right to counsel, he or she is not
subject to further custodial interrogation "until counsel has been made
available to him [or her], unless the accused ... initiates further communication, exchanges, or conversations with the police." Here the police
failed to respect Barrett's limited assertion of his right to counsel. Had a
written statement been obtained as a result of these persistent efforts to
change Barrett's mind, it would have been inadmissible.
I"The central contention of the Petitioner in this action is that the
Connecticut Supreme Court unduly expanded the protections accorded
criminal defendants under the Fifth Amendment to the United States
[C]onstitution when it determined that this defendant involuntarily waived
his right to assistance of counsel at his interrogation. This result was
possible only through use of a prophylactic rule which ignored the circumstances of this case." Pet. for Cert. 5.

CONNECTICUT v. BARRETT
523

STEVENS,

J., dissenting

Id., at 479. He also said he would talk to the police "'but I
don't want it on tape."' Ibid. The police interrogation complied with the everyday meaning of both of those conditions;
it occurred before Edwards made any "deal"-indeed, he
never made a deal-and no tape recording of the session was
made.
The Court nevertheless found the interrogation
objectionable. In this case, respondent requested an attorney before signing a written statement. Why the police's
compliance with the literal terms of that request makes the
request-as opposed to the subsequent waiver 2-any less of
a request for the assistance of counsel than Edwards' is not
adequately explained in the Court's opinion. In all events,
the Court does not purport to change the governing rule of
law that judges must "give a broad, rather than a narrow, interpretation to a defendant's request for counsel." Michigan v. Jackson, 475 U. S. 625, 633 (1986).
I would dismiss the writ of certiorari as improvidently
granted.

'In this case, the Connecticut Supreme Court interpreted the trial
court's ruling as embodying a factual finding that respondent had requested the assistance of counsel but thereafterwaived his right to counsel.
It agreed with that factual determination but held that the subsequent
waiver was ineffective as a matter of law. 197 Conn. 50, 60, 495 A. 2d
1044, 1050 (1985).

