OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

209 U. S.

ascertaining Which property belongs to either of the spouses
respectively or to the community."
The decree is reversed and the case is remanded to the court
below, with directions to dismiss the bill for -want of jurisdiction over the subject matter.

UNITED STATES FIDELITY AND GUARANTY COMPANY v. UNITED STATES FOR THE USE AND BENEFIT OF STRUTHERS WELLS COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 154.

Argued March 5, 1908.-Decided April 6, 1908.

There is always a strong presumption that a statute was not meant to act
retrospectively, and it should never receive such a construction if susceptible of any other, nor unless the words are so clear, strong and imperative as to have no other meaning.
The act of February 24, 1905, c. 778, 33 Stat. 811, amending the act of August 13, 1894, c. 280, 28 Stat. 278, is prospective and does not relate to
or affect actions based on rights of materi:il-men which had accrued prior
to its passage, and such actions are properly brought under the act of 1394.
The absolute taking away of a present right to sue and suspending it until
after certain events have happened, and the giving of preferences between
creditors, are not mere matters of procedure but affect substantial rights,
and as the act of February 24, 1905, consists of but a single section and
deals with such subjects and only incidentally applies to procedure, the
entire statute must be construed under the general rule that it is not retrospective in any respect.
151 Fed. Rep. 534, affirmed.

THIS is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit, which brings up for review the judgment of
that court affirming that of the Circuit Court of the Eastern
District of New York in favor of the defendant in error (plain-

U. S. FIDELITY CO. v. STRUTHERS WELLS CO. 307
209 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

tiff below) against the plaintiff in error for the sum of $2,054.23.
The action was brought in the Circuit Court above mentioned,
in the name of the United States for the use and benefit of
Struthers Wells Company against the plaintiff in error, and
against the individual defendant Flaherty, as well as one
Lande, upon a bond dated December 10, 1903, executed by
Flaherty as principal, and the above-mentioned plaintiff in
error as surety, by which they were held bound in the sum of
$40,000, to be paid the United States as liquidated damages,
the condition of the obligation being that if Flaherty, .his sucz
cessors, heirs, etc., should well and truly execute the contract
annexed to the bond, which he had entered into with Colonel
W. A. Jones, U. S. A., Engineer, of the Fifth Lighthouse District, for and in behalf of the United States, by which Flaherty
covenanted and agreed to completely construct and deliver
the metal work for the. Baltimore lighthouse, Maryland, according to all the conditions of the said contract, and should
promptly make payments to all persons supplying said Flaherty
labor and materials in the prosecution of the work provided for
in such contract, then the obligation was to be void; otherwise
to remain in full force and virtue.
. It was averred in the complaint that the action was brought
in the name of the United States by Struthers Wells Company,
for its use and benefit, against the plaintiff in error and Flaherty
(and also one Lande, who had been joined with Flaherty in
the contract), pursuant to the act of Congress of August 13,
i894. See 28 Stat. 278. The section is set forth in the margin.1
1 28 Stat. Chapter 280, p. 278:

"Be it enacted, etc., That hereafter any perboa ur persons entering into a
formal contract with the United States for the construction of any public
building, or the prosecution and completion of any public work, or for repairs upon any public building or public work, shall be required before commencing such work to execute the usual penal bond, with good and sufficient
sureties, with the additional obligations that such contractor or contractors
shall promptly make payments to all persons supplying him or them labor
and materials in the prosecution of the work provided for in such contract;
and any person or persons making application therefor, and furnishing
affidavit to the Department under the direction of which said work is being,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

209-U. S.

The Struthers Wells Company, under an agreement with
the delendants Flaherty and Lande, and in op about the month
of March, 1904, supplied to them certain materials described
in the complaint, for use by them in the prosecution of the
work, which they had contracted with the United States to
do in constructing.the metal work for the Baltimore lighthouse,
as mentioned in the bond. The material furnished by the
company was of the value of $1,890.25. The company duly
performed all the conditions of its contract with the defendants,
which it had agreed to perform, and made delivery as provided for in its agreement, and by reason of the premises there
became due and payable to the company from the defendants,
including the plaintiff in error, the sum of $1,890.25, with
interest from June 7, 1904, no part of which has been paid.
Judgment was demanded for that sum, with interest, as
stated.
The action was commenced on the twelfth of April, 1905.
The plaintiff in error demurred to the complaint on the ground,
first, that .the court had no jurisdiction of the person of the
defendant, the United States Fidelity and Guaranty Company;
second, that the court had not jurisdiction of the subject of
the action; and, third, that the complaint does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action against the defendant,
the United States Fidelity and Guaranty Company. This
demurrer was overruled, with leave to the defendant to answer,
which the defendant refused to do, and thereupon judgment
was entered for the plaintiff against it, which was affirmed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
or has been, prosecuted, that labor or materials for the prosecution of such
work has been supplied by him or them, and payment for which has not been
made, shall be furnished with a certified copy of said contract and bond,
upon which said person or persons supplying such labor and materials shall
have a right of action, and shall be authorized to bring suit in the name of the
United States for his or their use and benefit against said contractor and
sureties, and to prosecute the same to final judgment and execution: Provided, That such action and its prosecution shall involve the United States

in no expense."

U. S. FIDELITY CO. v. STRUTHERS WELLS CO. 309
209 U. S.

Argment for Plaintiff in Error.

Mr. Leonidas Dennis for plaintiff in error:
The question of jurisdiction depends upon the law as it was
when the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was invoked. Though
plaintiff's cause of action arose before the passage of chapter 778, this action was not started until after the enactment
of this law and the provisions therein contained regulating
the enforcement 'of such cause of action apply to this action
as they do not affect the cause of action itself, but only the
method of enforcing the same. Larkins v. Saffarans, 15 Fed.
Rep. 147; 26 Am. & Eng. Enc. of Law, 695; Endlich on Interpretation of Statutes, § 287; United States Fidelity & Guaranty
Co. v. Kenyon, 204 U. S.359.
The court has no jurisdiction over the subject of this action.
The Circuit Courts of the United States are of statutory
and not constitutional creation and jurisdiction. Whatever
jurisdiction they might have had over such an action prior to
February 24, 1905, that jurisdiction was repealed by the passage of the act of that date. The only court which has jurisdiction over a cause of action upon a bond like that involved
in this cause is the Circuit Court in the district in which the
contrac was to be performed and executed. The prohibition against other courts exercising jurisdiction, is equivalent
to a repeal. Insurance Company v. Ritchie, 5 Wall. 541,
544.
When a law conferring jurisdiction is repealed without any
reservation as to pending cases, all such cases fall within the
law. Railroad Co. v. Grant, 98 U. S. 398; Assessors v. Osborne, 9 Wall. 567; Sherman v. Grinnell, 123 U. S.679; Gurnee
v. Patrick County, 137 U. S. 141; McNulty v,. Batty, 10 How.
71; Insurance Co. v. Ritchie, 5 Wall. 541; Ex parte McCardle,
-7Wall. 506, 514; National Exchange Bank v. Peters, 144 U. S.
570; Fairchildv. United States, 91 Fed. Rep. 297.
The only vested right conferred on defendant in error by' the
statute of 1894, is the right to a pro rata share in the amount
of the bond after the contract has been completed, and the
statute of 1905 does not take away this right. Larkins v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

209 U. S.

Saffarans, 15 Fed. Rep. 147; American Surety Co. v. Lawrenceville Cement Co., 96 Fed. Rep. 25.
The legislature may change, as well as create, a limitation,
provided adequate means of enforcing the right remain, and
the material-man here has no vested interest in the form of
the action to be commenced, or the mode or remedy to be applied.
Statutes prescribing a new or different limitation take effect
immediately. Sohn v. Waterson, 17 Wall. 596; Terry v. Anderson, 95 U. S. 628; Wilson v. Kreminger, 185 U. S. 63.
The complaint does not state that the contract, for the performance of which the bond was given, has been fully completed, and that six months had expired since such completion
and before the commencement of this action without the United States starting suit on said bond, all of which elements
are conditions precedent to maintaining the suit.
Although the material-man under the statute of February 24,
1905, has not an unconditional right of action, but must wait
until after the completion of the contract, this provision is
not a material change in the right of the material-man as, under the former statute, their right to a pro rdta share could only
be determined after the contract had been completed. Lawrenceville Cement Co. v. American Surety Co., supra.
Mr. Herbert A. Heyn for defendant in error:
The act of 1905, was not intended by Congress to apply to
or have effect upon causes of action which had accrued before
its passage. Plaintiff's cause of action is therefore exclusively
governed by the material-men's act of 1894, under which the
bond in suit was given and under which all rights against the
surety became fully vested long prior to the enactment of
the new statute.
A statute shall never be given retrospective effect unless the
legislature in most unambiguous and unmistakable language
has directed that such should be its operation. Laws are to
operate prospectively. Jackson v. Van Zandt, 12 Johns. R.

U. S. FIDELITY CO. v. STRUTHERS WELLS CO. 311
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

168; Sutherland, Statutory Construction, 1158, 1161; Wade;
Retroactive Law, § 34; United States v. American Sugar Co.,
202 U. S. 563, 577; United States v. Heth, 3 Cranch, 413.

While the general principles above considered have not
always been applied with the same strictness to statutes relating to procedure and practice, even in respect to such stat-

utes the intention of the legislature is just as important and
binding upon the courts as in reference to any, others. Wade
on Retroactive Law, §§ 38, 39.
See also to the same effect: Pierce v. Cabot, 159 Massachusetts, 202; Shallow v. Salem, 136 Massachusetts, 136; Eddy v.
Morgan, 216 Illinois, 437; Auditor Gen. v. Chandler, 108 Michigan, 569; Bedier v. Fuller, 116 Michigan, 126.
There is nothing in the act itself that indicates the intention
that the provisions in reference to practice and remedy were

intended by Congress to operate retrospectively.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
The demurrer put in by the plaintiff in error is founded upon
an amendment of the above mentioned act, which, it is contended, applies to the case before us. The amendment is set
forth in the margin.1
1 Chapter 778, 33 Stat., p. 811:

"Be it enacted, etc., That the act entitled 'An Act for the protection of
persons furnishing materials and labor for the construction of public works,'
approved August thirteenth, eighteen hundred and ninety-four, is hereby
amended so as to read as follows:
. " 'That hereafter any person or persons entering into a formal contract
with the United States for the construction of any public building, or the
prosecution and completion of any public work, or for repairs upon any
public building, or public work, shall be required, before commencing such
work, to execute the usual penal bond, with good and sufficient sureties,
with the additional obligation that such contractor or contractors shall
promptly make payments to all persons supplying him dr them with labor
and materials in the prosecution of the work provided for in such contract;
and any person,'company or corporation who has furnished labor or materials used in the construction or repair of any public building or public work,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

The record shows that the contract between Flaherty and
the United States was entered into December 10, 1903, and
the material was furnished to Flaherty by the Struthers Wells
Company in March, 1904. It thus appears that the bond was
executed under the provisions of the original act of Congress,
and the materials were furnished Flaherty while that act was
in force and before its amendment. The legal rights of the
Struthers Wells Company had become vested before the enactment of the amendment. It is contended on the part of the
plaintiff in error that the passage of the amendment (February 24, 1905) made it necessary for the defendant in error
to follow its provisions when it commenced this action on the
twelfth of April, 1905. It is argued that the amendment prescribes the procedure to be followed by material-men in enforcing claims against a surety on a bond of the nature of the
one in suit; that, as amended, the law prohibited a materialman from commencing any action in any district other than
that in which the contract was to be performed (in this case
and payment for which has not been made, shall have the right to intervene
and be made a party to any action instituted by the United States on the
bond of the contractor, and to have their rights and claims adjudicated in
such action and judgment rendered thereon, subject, however, to the priority
of the claim and judgment of the United States. If the full amount of the
liability of the surety on said bond is insufficient to pay the full amount of
said claims and demands, then, after paying. the full amount due to the
United States, the remainder shall be distributed pro rata among said intervenors. If no suit should be brought by the United States within six months
from the completion and final settlement of said contract, then the person or
persons supplying the contractor with labor and materials . . . shall,
upon application therefor, and furnishing affidavit to the Department under
the direction of which said work has been prosecuted, that labor or materials
for the prosecution of such work has been supplied by him or them, and payment for which has not been made, be furnished with a certified copy of said
contract and bond, upon which he or they shall have a right of action, and
shall be and are hereby authorized to bring suit in the name of the United
States in the Circuit Court of the United States in the district in which said
contract was to be performed -and executed, irrespective of the amount in
controversy in such suit, and not elsewhere, for his or their use and benefit,
against said contractor and his sureties, and to prosecute the same to final
judgment and execution: Provided, That where suit is instituted by any of

U. S. FIDELITY CO. v. STRUTHERS WELLS CO. 313
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the Maryland District of the Fourth Circuit), and also not until
after the complete performance -of the contract, for the performance of which the bond was given, and until the expiration of six months after such completion, during which time
the United States alone has the right to commence an action.
The plaintiff in error insists that, although the cause of action
herein arose before the passage of the amendment, the action

itself not having been commenced until after that time, all
the provisions of the amendment regulating the enforcement
of such cause of action apply to the action before us, as they
do not affect the cause of action itself, but only the method

of enforcing the same. In other words, it is contended that
the amendment is to have retroactive effect in all matters
relative to procedure, and that, as so construed, this action
was improperly brought in the Circuit Coirt of the United

States for the Eastern District of New York, and that it was
prematurely brought because it does not appear that at the
time of the commencement of this action the contract had
such creditors on the bond of the contractor it shall not be commenced until
after the complete performance of said contract and final settlement thereof;
and shall be commenced within one year after the performance and final
settlement of said contract and not later: And provided further, That where
suit is so instituted by a creditor or by creditors, only one action shall be
brought, and any creditor may file his claim in such action and be made party
thereto within one year from the completion of the work under said contract,
and not later. If the recovery on the bond should be inadequate to pay the
amounts found due to all of said creditors, judgment shall be given to each
creditor pro rata of the amount of the recovery. The surety on said bond
may pay into court, for distribution among said claimants and creditors, the
full amount of the sureties' liability, to wit, the penalty named in the bond,
less any amount said surety may have had to pay to the United States by
reason of the execution of said bond, and upon so doing the surety will be
relieved from further liability: Provided further, That in all suits instituted
under the provisions of this act such personal notice of the pendency of such
suits, informing them of their right to intervene as the court may order, shall
be given to all known creditors, and in addition thereto notice of publication
in some newspaper of general circulation, published in the State or town
where the contract is being performed, for at least three successive weeks,
the last publication to be at least three months before the time limited
therefor.' "

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

been completed or that six months had expired since its completion, or that the United States had not itself sued on the
bond.
The act which is amended consists of but one material section, the second section providing only for the comparatively
unimportant matter of security for costs. The act amending
the section also consists of but one section. The question is
whether the amended act applies to this case.
There are certain principles which have been adhered to
with great strictness by the courts in relation to the construction of statutes as to whether they are or are not retroactive
in their effect. The presumption is very strong that a statute
was not meant to act retrospectively, and it ought never to
receive such a construction if it is susceptible of any other.
It ought not to receive such a construction unless the words
used are so clear, strong and imperative that no other meaning
can be annexed to them or unless the intention of the legislature cannot be otherwise satisfied. Dash v. Van Kleeck, 7
Johns. 499; Jackson v. Van Zandt, 12 Johns. 168; United States
v. Heth, 3 Cranch, 399, 414; Southwestern Coal Co. v. McBride,
185 U. S. 499, 503; United States v. American Sugar Co., 202
U. S.563, 577.
The language of the amended act is prospective, as it provides "that hereafter any person or persons entering into a
formal contract with the United States," etc. That language
standing alone would leave little doubt as to the intention of
Congress in the matter of the taking effect of the amendment.
It is urged, however, that as the amendment in this respect
but reiterates the language of the original act, the use of the
word "hereafter" in the commencement of the amendment
ought not to have the significance which would otherwise attach to it, because it is simply in this particular reenacting the
law as it already stood.
There is considerable force in the suggestion that the word
"hereafter" is not to receive the weight which in othe' circumstances it ought to. have. The question is,
however, one

U. S. FIDELITY CO. v. STRUTHERS WELLS CO. 315
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

as to the intention of Congress, and when we come to look at
the provisions of the statute, as amended, we are convinced
that Congress did not intend that the amendment should apply
to cases where the bond had already been executed, the work
done, the respective rights of the parties settled, and the cause
of action already in existence. If Congress had intended
otherwise, we think it would have still further amended the
original act by providing in plain language that the amendment should apply to all cases, and not be confined to the
future.
The plaintiff in error contends that where an amendment
to an act relates only to procedure, it takes effect upon causes
of action existing when the amendment was passed, and hence
that part of the amendment in question applies and prevents
the taking of jurisdiction by the Circuit Court for the Eastern
District of New York. It is admitted by the plaintiff in error
that the act is not. confined to procedure but deals with substantive rights in some instances, one of which is the provision
granting a prefercnce to the United States over all other creditors. In such case counsel admits that the provision must
be construed and held to apply to bonds executed subsequent
to the enactment of the statute, and to such bonds alone.
Under the statute of 1894 no such preference could be obtained. American Surety Co. of New York v. Lawrenceville
Cement Co., 96 Fed. Rep. 25; United States v. Heaton, 128
Fed. Rep. 414.
It would follow necessarily that if the full amount of the
liability of the surety on the bond were insufficient to pay all
the claims and demands, the provision that, after paying the
full amount due the United States, the remainder only should
be distributed pro rata among the intervenors, would also be a
substantive amendment and not one of procedure. Hence
counsel admits that the full amount which may be due the United States depends upon whether the bond was executed prior
or subsequent to the amendment of the statute; that if the
bond were executed prior thereto, the Government is only en-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

titled to its pro rata share, while if executed subsequently the
full amount of its claim, regardless of the claims of the other
creditors, would be the amount due. In other words, these
provisions, contained in the single section of the act, are to be,
considered as prospective only and as applicable to bonds
executed subsequently to the passage of the amendment.
There is another most important amendment, by which the
material-man's right to sue is suspended until after the completion of the work and final settlement and for six months
thereafter, during which the United States can alone sue upon
the bond. Instead of a right to sue at once upon the nonpayment of his claim, he is precluded from doing so, perhaps
for years.
Although the time in which to commence action may be
shortened and made applicable to causes of action already
accrued, provided a reasonable time is left in which such actions may be commenced (Terry v. Anderson, 95 U. S. 628;
Wilson v. Iseminger, 185 U. S. 55), yet that is a different principle from taking away absolutely a present right to sue until
a period of time, measured possibly by years, shall have
elapsed.
These various provisions are all contained in the same section of the statute, and there is not much of it left to be made
retrospective, as matter of procedure, after these other provisions have been held to be prospective only. If the limitation as to the district in which the suit upon the bond could
be brought were to be regarded as simply matter of procedure
(which we do not assert), we still think it is not to be construed
as applying retrospectively. As it is only a question of intention we are not prepared to hold that the section is prospective in its operation in regard to all its other provisions, but
retrospective in the one instance, as to the district in which
the suit is to be commenced. Even matters of procedure are
not necessarily retrospective in their operation in a statute,
and we see nc reason for holding that this statute, of but one
section, should be split up in its construction, and one por-

NAT'L LIFE INS. CO. v. NAT'L LIFE INS. CO.
209 U. S.

317

Statement of the Case.

tion of it made applicable to cases already existing and other
portions applicable only to the future. We are convinced
Congress did not intend such separation. Viewing the whole
section, we think Congress meant that only in future cases
should the provisions of the amendment apply, although some
trifling portion of those provisions might be regarded, technically, as in the nature of procedure. It is therefore wiser
to hold the entire section governed by the usual rule and as
applying only to the future.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals was right,
and is

Affirmed.

NATIONAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA v. NATIONAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY.
APPEAL FLOM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 162. Argued March 0. 1908.-Decided April 6. 1908.
Even if the power to review the determination of an executive department
exists, where the complainant is merely appealing from the discretion of
the department to the discretion of the court, the court should not interfere by injunction where the complainant has no clear legal right to the
relief sought.
Where a corporation has taken the same name as that of an older corporation the fact that it has a greater quantity of mail matter does not
justify the court in interfering with a speci.l order of the Post Office Department directing the delivery of matter not addressed by street and
number in accordance with Par. 4 of § 645 of the General Regulations
of 1902 to the one first adopting the name in the place of address.

THE appellant commenced this suit in equity against the
defendants on the eighteenth day of July, 1905, in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois,

