OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

209 U. S.

LONGYEARXv. TOOLAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
No. 177.

Argued March 13, 1908.-Decided April 6, 1908.

An owner of property must be held to knowledge that failure to pay duly
assessed taxes will be followed by sale; and if the statute gives him full
opportunity to be heard as to the assessment on definite days, and definitely fixes the time for payment and the time for sale in case of default,
so that he cannot fail, if duly diligent, to learn of the pendency of the sale,

he is not denied due process of law because the notice of sale is by publication and not by personal service; and the validity of a tax sale under
the law of Michigan sustained.
144 Michigan,55, affirmed.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Edward Cahill for plaintiff in error:
When notice by statute is relied on to supply the place of
process it must contain theelements of notice and must be as
definite and certain in all the, essentials of notice as any other
legal process. If a: statute is deficient in respect to prescribing
with certainty the time and place of hearing, the defect cannot be supplied by publication of the notice unless the statute
also fixes definitely the time and place when and where the
publication shall be made and so furnishes, by reference, a
means of certainty. What is required is notice and notice to
be of value must possess ertainty or furnish the means of
certainty to the person entitled to it. State R. R. Tax cases,
92 U. S. 575; Davidson v. Board of Administration of New
Orleans, 97 U. S. 108; Hager v. Reclamation District, 111 U. S.
701; C. N. 0. & T. P. R. R. Co. v. Kentucky, 115 U. S. 321;
Spencer v. Merchant, 125 U. S. 345; P. C,.C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v.
Backws, 154 U. S. 421; Winona Land Co. v. Minnesota, 159
U. S. 526, substantially differ frdm the case at bar.

LONGYEAR v. TOOLAN.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. HarrisE. Thomas, with whom Mr. Charles W. Nichols
was on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR.

JUSTICE MOODY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Michigan.
That court rendered judgment for the defendants in error,
who were the original plaintiffs, against the plaintiff in error,
who was the original defendant, in an action of ejectment to
recover a certain lot of land. The defendant was at one time
the owner of the land in dispute, but it was conveyed to the
plaintiffs by a deed given in pursuance of a sale for taxes:
The. title to the land depends upon the validity of the tax
title, which was upheld by the court below.' The issue in this
court is narrowed to the question whether the sale of the land
for the enforcement and collection of the taxes, which it is
conceded were duly levied, violated the due process of law
guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution
of the United States.
The method in Michigan of the assessment and collection
ct taxes on real property is as follows: On or before the third
Monday in May the Supervisor of the township-makes a tax
roll, on which each parcel of real property is described, and the
4ame of its owner, if known, set Opposite. The Supervisor then
estimates the true cash value of the property. On the Tuesday
next following the third Monday of May the Supervisor submits his assessment roll to a board of review for correction and
approval. On the fourth Monday of May And the day following
the board sits, and, at the request of any taxpayer, has the
power to correct the assessment on his property. The members of the board have authority to administer the oath and
to examine witnesses. The assessment roll is then finally made
up and certified. The Supervisor then proceeds to assess taxes
in accordance with the assessment roll, and from the'first
day of December following they become a lien upon the prop-*
ertv until payment. Act 206 of the Laws of 1893 provides for

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

the enforcement and *collection of delinquent taxes by sale.
All lands, the taxes upon which have remained unpaid for a
year after the lands have been returned to the Auditor General
or the county treasurers as delinquent, are declared to be
subject to sale in satisfaction of the tax lien. The law provides, ยง 61, that "as soon as practicable after the first day of
June . . . the Auditor General shall prepare and file in
the office of the County Clerk . * * a petition addressed

to the Circuit Court for said county in chancery, stating therein
by apt reference to lists or schedules annexed thereto, a description of all lands in such county upon which taxes have remained unpaid for more than one year prior to

.

. the

first day of May of the year in which the petition is filed, and
the total amount of such taxes.

.

.

.

Such petition shall

pray a decree in favor of the State of Michigan against said
land for the payment of the several amounts so specified therein,
and in default thereof that such lands be sold." The petition
is then entered in "a substantial record book," with a list of
the lands and the taxes upon them. The Circuit Judge thereupon makes an order that the petition will be brought to
hearing and decree at a time and place named, at which all
persons interbsted who desire to contest the lien of the State
may appear and file their objections, and that in default of
appearance a decree as prayed for will be entered. The pe-.
tition, with the order thereon, must then be published at least
once a week for four weeks next prior to the time fixed for
hearing, in some newspaper published and circulating in the
county to be designated by the Auditor General. If there is
no such newspaper; or none such can be'secured, the petition
and order must be printed and furnished to- each voter in the
county and copies posted in three public places in each township. The foregoing publication is. declared by the law to be
"equivalent to a personal service of notice on all persons who
are interested in the lands specified in such petition, of the
filing thereof, of. all proceedings thereon and of the sale of the
lands under the decree, and shall give the court jurisdiction"

LONGYEAR v. TOOLAN.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to proceed to'a decree. An appeal to the Supreme Court may
be taken by either party. On the first Monday of December
following the county treasurer begins to make the sales decreed
by the court, must report them ,to the clerk of the court, and
eight days after the sales are reported to the clerk 6f the court
are given for objections to the sale, which may be set aside as
in the practice in cases of sales in equity on the foreclosure of
mortgages. The sale is then confirmed, subject to a right of
redemption, which may be exercised at any time within one
year from the sale. The sale, however, may be set aside within
one year after the 6wner has notice of the sale, if the taxes
have been paid or the property was exempt.
The sale in the case at bar was made after proceedings which,
in all respects, conformed to the statute. The single objection made in behalf of the plaintiff in error is that the statute
denies to him, then being a resident of the State, the due
process of law required by the Constitution, in that it substitutes notice by publication of the proceedings for sale for personal service. It has been shown that the Michigan law provides a board of review, which holds sessions on days fixed by
the law, where every person whose property is on the provisional assessment roll submitted by the Supervisor may be
heard to correct the assessment. It would seem that this opportunity for hearing, coupled with the provision for setting
aside the sale within one year after notice of it, which has been
stated, satisfies the requirement of due process of law made by
the Fourteenth Amendment, and that the State may be left
to enforce the collection of the taxes as it chooses. But we
pass this question without deciding it, simply observing that
in Winona & St. Peter Land Co. v. Minnesota, 159 U. S. 526,
it was said, p. 537, that the Fourteenth Amendment was not
violated "if the owner has an opportunity to question the
validity or the amount of it either before that amount is determined or in subsequent proceedings for its collection."
If it be assumed that the delinquent taxpayer, who has already
had an opportunity to be heard upon the assessment of the
VOL. ccix---27

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

tax upon his property, is entitled to further notide of the pen.
dency of proceedings to sell the land in satisfaction of the tax
lien, then the statute before us requires a sufficient notice. It
is no objection that the notice was only by publication. In
the case of Leigh v. Green, 193 U. S. 79, a case of publication,
the authorities were reviewed, and it was said, p. 92: "Where
the State seeks directly, or by authorization to others to sell
land for taxes upon proceedings to enforce a lien for the payment thereof, it may proceed directly against the land within
the jurisdiction of the Court, and a notice which permits all
interested, who are 'so minded,' to ascertain that it is to be
subjected to sale to answer for taxes, and to appear and be
heard, whether to be found within the jurisdiction or not, is
due process of law within the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Constitution." Moreover, the case at bar cannot be distinguished from Winona & St. Peter Land Co. v. Minnesota,
supra. There a statute similar to the one now before us was
held to afford due process of law. The only distinction suggested is that the Minnesota Statute fixed more definitely than
the Michigan statute the time of filing the petition, of making
the order for hearing, and of the hearing itself. But those times are fixed with sufficient certainty here. The owner of
property whose taxes, duly assessed, have remained unpaid
for more than one year must be held to the knowledge that
proceedings for sale are liable to be begun as soon as practicable after the first day of June, and that the law contemplates
that they will be ended before December 1, when the sales will
be made by the county" treasurer. The proceedings are inscribed on the public records and otherwise made notorious.
If he exercises due vigilance, he cannot fail to learn of their
pendency, aid that full opportunity to defend is afforded to
him. This satisfies the demands qt due process of law, and the
judgment is
Affirmed.

