UNITED STATES v. CHANDLER-DUNBAR CO.
209 U. S.

447

Syllabus.

in the controversy alleged to have been wholly between citizens of different States; and it was a decision which the court
had a right to make, involving no abuse of judicial discretion.
A premature review cannot be obtained by a writ of mandamus.
Without expressing any opinion as to whether the State was
a necessary party to the relief asked, which involved the removability of the case, this court bases its judgment on the
mandamus entirely upon the ground that, as the Circuit Court
had jurisdiction to pass upon the question of the removability
of the case, and as its order overruling the motion to remand
was subject to- be reviewed by a higher court after the case
had been disposed of by final judgment, the remedy was by
appeal and not by mandamus.
Rule discharged; petition dismissed.

UNITED STATES v. CHANDLER-DUNBAR
POWER COMPANY.

WATER

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 599. Argued April 6, 7, 8, 1908.- Decided April 20, 1908.
Statutes of limitations with regard to land affect the right even if in terms
only directed against the remedy. The act of March 3, 1891, c. 561, § 8,
26 Stat. 1099, providing that suits to vacate and annul patents theretofore issued shall only be brought within five years after the passage of
the act, applies to a void patent, and where suit has not been brought
within the prescribed period a patent of public lands, whether reserved
or not, must be held good and to' have the same effect as though valid
in the first place.
On the admission of Michigan to the Union the bed of the Sault Ste. Marie,
whether strait or river, passed to the State, and small unsurveyed islands
therein became subject to the law of the State.
By the law of Michigan a grant of land bounded by a stream whether navigable in fact or not, carries with it the bed of the stream to the center
of the thread thereof, and under this rule the patentee of government

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Counsel for Parties.

209 U. S.

land bordering on the Sault Ste. Marie, takes to the center line, including
small unsurveyed islands between the main land and the center line;
nor are the rights of riparian owners to the center affected by the fact
that the stream is a boundary.
152 Fed. Rep. 25 affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
The Attorney General, The Solicitor General and Mr. Duane E.

Fox, special assistant to the Attorney General, for the United
States.'
1 The brief, on behalf of the United States, of over 280 pages, presented
the case in the following manner as appears by the index of the brief:
Statement of the case; manner in which the questions are raised; the questions involved; specifications of errors.
Argument, I. The law of the waters; A. Locus of the islands; B. The status
of the waters established by treaties; (1) The treaties of peace (Paris); (2)
The treaty of Ghent; (a) Boundary established under Article VI; (b Boundary established under Article VII; (3) The Treaty of Washington (WebsterAshburton treaty); (4) Other treaty provisions; C. The status of the waters
established by the law of nations; D. The law of riparian and littoral ownership; (1) Public and private waters; (2) The Great Lakes; (3) The connecting
waters between the Great Lakes; (4) Legislative recognition by the State of
Michigan of the public character of the connecting waters between the Great
Lakes; (5) Michigan cases distinguished; (6) State decisions--how far controlling; (7) The distinction between inland waters of a State and international waters; (8) The question a politicaloone; E. Former construction by
the Government.
II. Title to Islands 1 and 2 in the United States.
III. The islands and adjacent shore land reserved for public uses; A. Historical statement and authorities; B. Effect of order of December 9, 1852,
releasing portion of lands previously reserved; (1) The reservation of 1822;
(2) The general temporary reservation of April 3, 1847; (3) The specific reservation of September 2, 1847; (4) The specific and final reservation under the
act of 1850; (5) The Indian reserve of an easement; C. Further contemporaneous construction.
IV. Land in Chandler patent never surveyed.
V. Said land not subject to location with Porterfield scrip; A. Lack of
legal survey; B. No price established for said land; C. Said lan4 otherwise
appropriated at the time of such location; (1) Effect of the military reservation; (2) The land within the limits of an incorporated town.
VI. The interest of the United States in this suit; A. International obligations of the United States; B. The locus needed for works in aid of commerce;
C. Refusal by Circuit Court to consider the validity of appellee's alleged title
to adjacent shorQ; D. Employment of special counsel.

UNITED STATES v. CHANDLER-DUNBAR CO.
209 U. S.

449

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Arch B. Eldridge, Mr. Moses Hooper and Mr. John,H.
Goff for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity brought by the United States to remove a cloud from its alleged title to two islands, numbered
One and Two, in the Sault Ste. Marie, between Lake Huron
and Lake Superior. The islands are in the rapids of the river
or strait, on the American side of the Canada boundary line,
and near to a strip of shore lying between the rapids and the
United States ship canal referred to in United States v. Michigan, 190 U. S. 379. The defendant claims this strip and the
islands under a patent from the United States, dated December 15, 1883, describing the land as bounded by the river
St. Mary on the east, north and west. The United States says
that the patent was void because the land had been reserved
for public purposes, and that even if it was valid the islands
did not pass. The defendant replies that the land was not
reserved, and also sets up the statute of limitations. Act of
March 3, 1891, c. 561,'§ 8. 26 Stat. 1099. The Circuit Court
dismissed the bill, and its decree was affirmed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals 152 Fed. Rep. 25.
There is force in the contention of the United States that
the land was reserved and that it had not been surveyed, but
we find it unnecessary to state or pass upon the arguments,
because we are of opinion that now the patent must be asVII. Statute of limitation not applicable.
VIII. Estoppel.
IX. Laches.
The appendix contained: A. Extracts from the report of the Commissioners under the treaty of Ghent; B. Diplomatic correspondence preceding
the treaty of 1842; C. Extract from Article II of the treaty of 1842; D. Correspondence regarding the restoration of certain lands embraced in the temporary reservation of April 3, 1847; E. Commissions and correspondence
6howing the relation of special counsel to this case; F. Extract from letter of
the Secretary of State to Lord Ashburton, dated July 27, 1842. There were
also a number of maps.

voL. CCIX-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

sumed to be good. The statute just referred to provides that
"suits by the United States to vacate and annul any patent
heretofore issued shall only be brought within five years from
the passage of this act," that is to say, from March 31, 1891.
This land, whether reserved or not, was public land of the
United States and in kind open to sale and conveyance through
the Land Department. United States v. Winona & St. Peter
R. R. Co., 165 U. S. 463, 476. The patent had been issued.in
1883 by the President in due form and in the regular way.
Whether or not he had authority to make it, the United States
had power to make it or to validate it when rmade, since the
interest of the United States was the only one concerned. We
can see no reason for doubting that the statute, which is the
voice of the United States, had that effect. It is said that the
instrument was void and hence was no patent. But the statute presupposes an instrument that might be declared void.
When it refers to "any patent heretofore. issued," it describes
the purport and source of the document, not its legal effect.
If the act were confined to valid patents it would be almost
or quite without use. Leffingwell v. Warren, 2 Black, 599.
In form the statute only bars suits to annul the patent.
But statutes of limitation, with regard to land, at least, which
cannot escape from the jurisdiction, generally are held to affect
the right, even if in terms only directed against the remedy.
Leffingwell v. Warren, 2 Black, 599, 605; Sharon v. Tucker,
144 U. S. 533; Davis v. Mills, 194 U. S.451, 457. This statute
must be taken to mean that the patent is to be held good and
is to have the same effect against the United States that it
would have had if it had been valid. in the first place. See
United States v. Winona & St. Peter R. R. Co., 165 U. S.463,
476.
We waste no time upon suggestipns of bad faith on the one
side or the other, as there is no sufficient warrant for them,
and as they were touched rather than pressed at the argument.
The only other question is whether the United States has
title to the islands, notwithstanding its patent and notwith-

UNITED STATES v. CHANDLER-DUNBAR CO.
209 U. S.

451

Opinion of the Court.

standing the incorporation of Michigan as a State. The bill
admits and alleges that the bed of the river, or strait, surrounding the islands, passed to Michigan when Michigan became a State, Pollardv. Hagan, 3 How. 212; Shively v. Bowlby,
152 U. S. 1, subject to the same public trusts and limitations
as lands under tide waters on the borders of the sea. Illinois.
Central R. R. Co. v. Illinois, 146 U. S. 387. But it sets up that
the islands remained the property of the United States, and
it argues that in such circumstances the islands did not pass
by the patent of the neighboring land.
The act offering Michigan admission to the Union provided
that no right was conferred upon the State "to interfere with
the sale by the United States, and under their authority, of
the vacant and unsold lands within the limits of the said State."
Act of June 15, 1836, c. 99, § 4. 5 Stat. 49, 50. And again,
by a condition, that the State should "never interfere with
the primary disposal of the soil within the same by the United States." Act of June 23, 1836, c. 121. Fifth. 5 Stat. 59,
60. The islands are little more than rocks rising very slightly
above the level of the water, and contain respectively a small
fraction of an acre and a little more than an acre. They were
unsurveyed and of no apparent value. We cannot think that
these provisions excepted such islands from the admitted
transfer to the State of the bed of the streams surrounding
them. If they did not, then, whether the title remains in the
State or passed to the defendant with the land conveyed by
the patent, the bill must fail.
The bed of the river could not be conveyed by the patent
of the United States alone, but, if such is the law of the State,
the bed will pass to the patentee by the help of that law, unless there is some special reason to the contrary to be found in
cases like Illinois Central Railroad Co. v. Illinois, 146 U. S.
387. This view is well established. Grand Rapids & Indiana
R. R. Co. v. Butler, 159 U. S. 87, 93, 94; Hardin v. Shedd,*190
U. S. 508, 519. The right of the State to grant lands covered
by tide waters or navigable lakes and the qualifications, as

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

stated in Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1, 47, are that the State
may use or dispose of any portion of the same "when that can
be (lone without substantial impairment of the interest of the
public in such waters, and subject to the paramount right of
Congress to control their navigation so far as may be, necessary for the regulation of commerce." But it cannot be
pretended that private ownership of the bed of the stream or
of the islands, subject to the public rights, will impair the interest of the public in the waters of the Sault Ste. Marie. See
Kaukauna Water Power Co. v. Green Bay & Mississippi Canal
Co., 142 U.. S. 254, 271, 272. Therefore, if by the law of Michigan the bed of the river or strait would pass to, a grantee of
the upland, we may assume that it passed to the defendant,
and we may assume further that the islands also passed. If,
as we think, they belonged to the State, they passed along with
the bed of the river. If they had belonged to the United States,
probably they would have passed as unsurveyed islands and
neglected fragments pass. Whitaker v. McBride, 197 U. S.
510; Grand Rapids & Indiana R. R. Co. v. Butler, 159 U. S.
87, 91, 92. Of course other nice questions are suggested andmight be asked; for instance, how it would be if the title to the
bed of the stream was in the State and did .not pass with the
upland, and the islands remained to the United States. It
still would be a reasonable proposition that the islands followed the upland. But in the view that we have taken that
may be left in doubt.
The question then is narrowed to whether the bed of the
strait is held to pass by the laws of Michigan. We are content to assume that the waters are public waters. Genesee
Chief v. Fitzhugh, 12 How. 443, 457. But whatever may be
the law as to lands under the great lakes, People v. Silberwood,
110 Michigan, 103, we believe that the law still is as it was declOared to be in Grand Rapids & Indiana R. R. Co. v. Butler,
159 U. S. 87, 94, that "a grant of land bounded by a stream,
whether navigable in fact or not, carries with it the bed of
the stream to the center of the thread thereof," and that this

LIU HOP FONG v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

209 U. S.

applies to the Sault Ste. Marie, whatever it be called. The
fact that it is a boundary has not been held to make a difference.
The riparian proprietors upon it own to the center. Ryan v.
Brown, 18 Michigan, 196; Scranton v. Wheeler, 113 Michigan,
565, 567; Kemp v. Stradley, 134 Michigan, 676. See also Scranton v. Wheeler, 57 Fed. Rep. 803, 812; S. C., 179 U. S. 141, 163;
Lorman v. Benson, 8 Michigan, 18; Water Commissioners v.
Detroit, 117 Michigan, 458, 462. We see no plausible ground
for the claim of the United States.
Decree affirmed,
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

dissents.

LIU HOP FONG v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE •
DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 181.

Argued March 18, 1908.-Decided April 20, 1908.

Under the provisions of § 13 of the act of September 13, 1888, c. 1015, 25 Stat.
476 and § 3 of the act of May 15, 1890, c. 60, 27 Stat. 25, the appeal
given to a Chinaman from an order of deportation made by a commissioner
is a trial de novo before the district -judge to which he is entitled before
he can be ordered to be deported, and the order cannot be made on a
transcript of proceedings before the commissioner.
After a commissioner has made and filed a certified transcript in the case of
a Chinaman orcdered by him to be deported his authority over the matter
ends. There is no statutory right to make up and file additional findings.
While a certificate issued as provided by § 3 of the Treaty of December,
1894 between the United States and China to entitle Chinese subjects
to enter the United 'States may be overcome by proper evidence, and
may not have the effect of a judicial determination, when a Chinaman
has been admitted to the United States on a certificate made in conformity with the treaty, he cannot be deported for having fraudulently
entered the United States unless there is competent evidence to overcome
the legal effect of the certificate.

