OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

HUTCHINS v. MUNN.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS

OF THE DISTRICT OF

COLUMBIA.
No. 163.

Argued March 10, 1908.-Decided March 23, 1908.

The measure of protection to be given by the undertaking required on
issuing a restraining order under ยง718, Rev. Stat., is to make good the
injuries inflicted upon a party observing the order until it is dissolved,
and such undertaking inures to the benefit of a defendant suffering
injuries irrespective of the exact time when th.-t party has knowledge
of the pendency of the action or appears therein; nor is this protection
denied because the only defendant sustaining injuries is a woman and
the undertaking is to make good "to the defendant all damages by him
suffered."
Findings of an auditor assessing damages on an u'ndertaking should not
be set aside by the court unless there has been an error of law or a conclusion of fact unwarranted by the evidence.
The owner of a house in Washington, D. C., who was prevented by a restraining order from completing alterations during the winter months, the
house meanwhile I eipg only partially habitable, was held, in this case, to
have lost the entire use of the house and to be entitled to recover on the
undertaking the reasonable rental value of the house for the season.
28 App. D. C. 271, affirmed.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Edwin C. Brandenburg, with whom Mr. Clarence A.
Brandenburgand Mr. F. Walter Brandenburgwere on the brief,
for appellants.
Mr. Samuel Maddox, with whom Mr. H. Prescott Gatley was
on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MOODY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a judgment of the Court of Appeals of
the District of Columbia. The appellee Carrie L. Munn was

HUTCHINS v. MUNN.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the owner of a lot of land, with a dwelling house thereon, situated on Massachusetts avenue, in the city of Washington.
The premises adjoining this lot were owned by Stilson Hutchins,
one of the appellants. Mrs. Munn's dwelling house did not
occupy the whole of her lot, and she decided to build an addition to it. She contracted with an architect and builder to
desigh and construct this addition. The work under these contracts was begun about July 1, 1902, and it was expected that
it would be completed about November 1, 1902, so that the
enlarged structure would be ready for occupation during the
season of 1902 and 1903. After making the contracts Mrs.
Munn went to Europe with her family, intending to return and
occupy the house on its completion in November. On August 14, 1902, Mr. Hutchins filed a bill in equity in the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia, praying an injunction against
the continuance of the erection of the addition. Mrs. Munn,
her husband, the architect, and the builder were made parties
defendant. The grounds upon which the injunction was sought
are not material here. On the day of the filing of the bill a
justice of the Supreme Court of the District entered an order
that the defendants show cause, on September 4 next, why the
prayer for an injunction should not be granted, and further
ordered that, until the hearing, the defendants be "restrained
and enjoined from continuing the erection of the building."
On the same day Mr. Hutchins, with the other appellants as
sureties, filed an undertaking, -approved by the court, which
is as follows:" Stilson Hutchins, the complainant, and William
J. Dante, Ben B. Bradford, sureties, hereby undertake to make
good to the defendant all damages by him suffered or sustained
by reason of wrongfully and inequitably suing out the injunction in the above-entitled cause, and stipulate that the damages
may be ascertained in such manner as the justice shall direct,
and that, on dissolving the injunction, he may give judgment
thereon against the principal and sureties for said damages
in the decree itself dissolving the injunction." Thereupon the
wvork on the addition was suspended and not resumed until

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

November 25, 1902, when, upon hearing, the court dissolved
the injunction and discharged the order to show cause. The
work was then continued until its completion in April, 1903.
Subsequently the decree of November 25, 1902, was affirmed
by the Court of Appeals, and the cause was referred to an auditor to ascertain the damages caused to the defendants, or
any of them, by the wrongful suing out of the injunction. The
auditor reported that Mrs. Munn had sustained damages to
the amount of six thousand dollars, and that the other defendants had sustained no damage. Exceptions to the auditor's
report were overruled by the Supreme Court, and the appellants were decreed to pay to Mrs. Munn, in accordance with
the terms of the undertaking, the sum found by the auditor
as damages. This decree was affirmed by the Court of Appeals
in the judgment now under review.
It is conten.ded that the undertaking does not, by its terms,
include Mrs. Munn in its protection, because it is expressed to
be an undertaking "to make good to the defendant all damages
by him suffered." Little pains need be expended on the argument which arises out of the letter of the bond. The undertaking was exacted by the court, it was offered by the complainant at a time when none of the defendants knew of the
pendency of the suit, and it was entitled "No. 23468 Equity
Docket, Stilson Hutchins, Complainant, Charles A. Munn et
al., Defendants." It accompanied a restraining order directed
against "the defendants and each of them," and we think it
should be held to run to all the defendants who were included
in that order.
It is further contended that, as Mrs. Munn was never served
with a subpcnna, or notice either of the order to show cause or of
the restraining order, she is not entitled to the benefits of the
undertaking. The order of the court was served immediately
upon the architect and the builder, and the work was instantly
stopped. No injury from the wrongful acts of the injunction
was inflicted upon either of the defendants served with the
court's order, but only upon the owner of the house. It is now

HUTCHINS v. MUNN.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

said that, although the court had, as a condition of issuing the
restraining order, exacted an undertaking to indemnify her,
she cannot recover upon it, because she was beyond the reach
of the process of the court. But this view is based upon a misconception of a restraining order and the undertaking to make
good the injury resulting from its wrongful use. The nature of
the order and undertaking received the consideration of this
court in Houghton v. Meyer, 208 U. S. 149. The authority for
the issue of such an order was shown to be ยง 718 of the Revised
Statutes. This section contemplates, in cases where irreparable
injury may be anticipated if the status quo be not preserved, the
issue without notice of a temporary restraining order, to be enforced only'until an order to show cause on the motion for an injunction can be heard and decided. The order may be granted
with or without security, to the defendants, in the discretion
of the court. In the case at bar the order accomplished its
purpose and instantly arrested the progress of the work by
restraining those who were engaged in it. The injury against
which the undertaking was designed to indemnify was incurred
by Mrs. Munn, and we find nothing in the facts of this case
which takes away the remedy on the undertaking exacted by
the court for her protection. It is true that she did not learn
of the issue of the restraining order for two weeks. But counsel,
though without express authority, undertook to guard her
interests, and moved to discharge the order on August 17.
With all reasonable speed authority to file an answer was obtained and acted upon, the cause was heard and the restraining
order dissolved. In the meantime the restraining order was
obeyed by all, had its full effect, and inflicted its full injury
upon Mrs. Munn's rights. Under these circumstances it is
beyond doubt tha, she is entitled to recover against those who
undertook to make good her injuries, the damages which she

sustained. It is enough that the order was obtained without
notice to her, that it was wrongfully sued out, that it was observed until dissolved, and that it inflicted injury upon her
rights. These facts, irrespective of the exact time when she

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

had knowledge of the pendency of the suit or appeared in it,
bring her within the terms of the undertaking. That is precisely the measure of protection which the law ought to give,
and by the statute does give, to one against 'whom, without
notice and hearing, an order of this kind is made.
The appellnnts alleged various exceptions to the auditor's
reyort, whicl1 are directed to the findings of facts, upon which
the liability was based and of the amount of damages, and here,
apparently, argue those exceptions on the theory that this court
is at liberty to-consider the evidence de novo, weigh and balance
it, and draw'such inferences and conclusions as seem proper.
But this theory overlooks the proper function of an auditor,
which was correctly appreciated by the court below. The findings should not be set aside unless it is shown that there has"
been an error in law or a conclusion of fact unwarranted by the
evidence. It is enough to say that there was evidence which
supported the findings of fact of the auditor and his assessment
of damages. Nor does it appear that the auditor committed
any error of law. His report shows the following facts, briefly
stated: It was the habit of Mrs. Munn to occupy her house
during the late autumn, the winter and the early spring, and
to live elsewhere during the remainder of the year. This was
the common season of occupancy in Washington of houses of
this character. She intended to occupy her house during the
season of 1902 and 1903, but was prevented from doing so by
the wrongful use of the restraining order. The addition which,
if the work had not been stopped, would have been completed
by November 1, was not completed until April, and could not
have been completed, if reasonable speed had been used, before
March. In the meantime the house, some of whose exterior
walls had been removed, was practically uninhabitable. Shelter could doubtless have been found in some of the rooms
which could have been closed and warmed. But the owner
was entitled to a house which could be occupied as a whole and
was available for use as a home for herself and her family.
This was denied to her b)y the defendants' wrongful act. We

ASBELL v. KANSAS.
209 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

think that the auditor correctly adopted as the measure of
damages the value of the use of the property for the period
and season during which she was thus deprived of it as the direct
result of the restraining order which, in another proceeding,
has been found to have been Wrongfully and inequitably sued
out. The decree of the court below is
Affirmed.
ASBELL v. STATE OF KANSAS.'
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 166. Submitted March 6,1908.-Decided March 23, 1908.
While the State may not legislate for the direct control of interstate commerce, a proper police regulation which does not conflict with congressional legislation on the subject involved is not necessarily unconstitutional because it may have an indirect effect upon interstate commerce.
Until Congress acts on the subject a State may, in the exercise of its police
power, enact laws for the inspection of cattle coming from other States.

Reid v. Colorado, 187 U. S. 137.
Congress has not enacted any legislation destroying the .right of a State to
provide for the inspection of cattle and prohibiting the bringing within
its borders of diseased cattle not inspected and passed as healthy either
by the proper state or national officials.
A State may not under pretense of protecting the public health exclude the
products or. merchandise of other States, and this court will determine
for itself whether it is a genuine exercise of the police power or really and
substantially a regulation of interstate commerce.
Section 27 of Chap. 495 of the laws of Kansas of 1905, prohibiting the transportation of cattle from any point south of the State into the State except
for immediate slaughter which have not been passed as healthy by the
proper state officials or by the National bureau of Animal Industry is a
proper police regulation within the power of the State, is not in conflict
with tle act of February 2, 1903, 32 Stat. 791, or the act of March 3,1905,
33 Stat. 1204, in regard to inspection of cattle, and is not unconstitutional as a direct regulation of interstate commerce.
60 Kansas, 51, affirmed.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Archie D.. Neale and Mr. Nelson Case for plaintiff in error:
A statute which prohibits the bringing of cattle into the State

