STICKNEY v. KELSEY.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

STICKNEY v. KELSEY, COMPTROLLER OF THE STATE
OF NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE SURROGATES' COURT IN AND FOR THE COUNTY
OF NEW YORK, STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 196.

Submitted March 20, 1908.-Decided April 6, 1908.

A ruling by the highest court of the State sustaining the method of proving the existence of a law of that State presents no Federal question.
Where the language of the appellate court is ambiguous, if it may be taken
as a declination to pass upon a question not necessary to the decision,
this court will not, in order to aid a technical and non-meritorious defense, spell out a Federal question; but it will resolve the ambiguity against
the plaintiff in error who is bound, in order to give this court jurisdiction,
to clearly show that a Federal right has been impaired.
Writ of error to review 185 N. Y. 107, dismissed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Edward Mitchell for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. David B. Hill for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MOODY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to a Surrogates' Court of the State of
New York. The judgment brought under review was entered
in obedience to a judgment of the Court of Appeals of that
State. The judgment imposed a transfer tax upon certain
real property devised by the will of Joseph Stickney, deceased.

The tax was properly assessed if an act purporting to be passed
.on March 16, 1903, 1 Session Laws of 1903, p. 165, was a duly

enacted law of the

tate. It appears that, by the constitu-

tion of the State, laws of the nature of this one require for

their due enactment a majority vote in each legislative chamber when three-fifths of the members are present. The presiding officers of both branches of the legislature, in certifying
that this bill was duly passed by a majority vote, failed to
certify that three-fifths of the members were then present.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

The defendant in error was permitted, over the objection of
the plaintiffs in error, to prove that the journals of the two
houses showed that the requisite number of members were,
in point of fact, present. This the Court of Appeals held to be
sufficient to show that the statute was validly enacted. The
first five !assignments of error in this court: simply allege in
various forms that the Court of Appeals erred in its decision of
the cause. These assignments may be summarily overruled
upon the plain ground that they present no Federal question.
It must not, however, be understood that we intimate that
any form of assignment would have given this court the authority to review the determination of the highest court of a
State of thc proper method of proving the existence of its own
laws. Town of South Ottawa v. Perkins, 94 U. S. 260; Railroad
Co. v. Georgia, 98 U. S. 359; Post v. Supervisors, 105 U. S. 667;
In re Duncan, 139 U. S. 449; Wilkes County v. Coler, 180 U. S.
506.
There is, however, a sixth assignment of error. For its
understanding it is necessary to make a further statement of
facts. When certified copies of the journals of the two houses
were offered in evidence, for the purpose of showing that at
the time of the passage of the bill three-fifths of the members
were in fact present, notwithstanding the omission of the presiding officers to certify to their presence, counsel for plaintiffs
in error made the following objection: "I object on the ground
that the paper offered is incompetent, irrelevant and immaterial; that the original journal, if produced, is not a record
either at common law or by the statute, and cannot be introduced in evidence, and cannot be resorted to by the court for
the purpose .of either validating or impeaching any law, and
that the legislative law makes the certificates of the presiding
officers conclusive evidence as to whether the majority were
present or three-fifths, and the conclusive evidence is that
there was only a majority present and not three-fifths."
The objection was overruled, the evidence was admitted, and
an exception. was taken. It will be observed that no objec-

STICKNEY v. KELSEY.
209 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion was taken that the original journals were not produced,
but only that if produced they were not admissible to add to
or vary the certificates of the presiding officers, which were
conclusive as to the numbers present. The judgment of the
Surrogate, which was in writing, and of the Appellate Division
of the Supreme Court, proceeded upon this view of the objection, and treated the question exactly as if the original
journals had been offered. But the judgment of the Court of
Appeals indicates that there it was objected, for the first time
as fai as the record discloses, that the original journals were not
produced and that- the certified copies were not competent
evidence of their contents. The inference that such a question
was raised can only be drawn from the concluding part of the
opinion. After deciding that the presence of the requisite
number of members could be proved by recourse to the journals, and that the journals showed the fact, the court said:
"It is contended, however, that the authenticity of the journals of the Legislature, certified copies of which were put in
evidence, was not established, and that with the failure of
any original record certified extracts therefrom were not. competent. Without expressing any opinion on this objection,
it is sufficient to say that the question has now been set at
rest by the enactment, since the argument of the appeal, of
Chapter 240 of the Laws of 1906, p. 471, which in express terms
declares the printed copies to be the original journals of the
two houses, and makes them, or copies thereof, competent evidence when certified by the respective clerks of the Senate
and Assembly." A motion for rehearing was made and denied.
Based upon this part of the opinion, a supposed Federal question is alleged in the' sixth assignment of error in this court,
which is as follows:
"VI. That the said Court of Appeals of the State of New
York erred in holding and deciding that the motion for reargument and for a hearing on the validity and effect of Chapter 240 of the Laws of 1906 should be'denied; by reason of
which denial the said Court of Appeals has, in effect, held:

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

"(a) that Chapter 240 of the Laws of 1906 should be construed to have a retroactive effect, and
"(b) that such construction would not be in violation of
the Fourteenth Article of the Amendments to the Constitution
of the United .States and,
"(c) would not impose and exact a tax without due notice:
and without due process of law, and
"(d) that the State would not by such act and such construction thereof deprive the plaintiffs in error of property
without due notice and without due process of law; each of
these grounds having been stated in the notice of said motion
by the plaintiffs in error, who then and there insisted upon
their constitutional rights in such respectV as soon as the
occasion arose."
We do not intend to intimate that, if the words of the opinion were capable of the meaning which is attributed to them
in this assignment of.error, there would have been shown any
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. ,League v. Texas,
184 U. S. 156. But we think, in view of the fact that when the
copies of the journals were offered in evidence no objection
had been made that: the originals were not produced, the
language of the court may quite as naturally be interpreted as
a declination to pass on a question, not necessary to the decision, which had been set at rest for the future by legislation.
The best that can be said for the plaintiffs in error is that the
action of the court was ambiguous. We resolve the ambiguity
against the parties complaining, who are bound to show clearly
that a Federal right was impaired, rather than- misuse *Pur
ingenuity to spell out a Federal question to aid a defense which
is merely technical and destitute of substantial merit.
It does not therefore appear that the judgment under review was based upon the decision of any Federal question.
Bachtel v. Wilson, 204 U. S. 36.
The writ of error is
Dismissed.

