O'REILLY
209 U S.

DE

CAMARA v. BROOKE.
Syllabus.

within and subject to the jurisdiction of the United States
to the extent of its constitutional power, and the power is not
in dispute. Ex parte Curtis, 106 U. S. 371; United States v.
Newton, 9 Mackey (D. C.), 226.
Judgment reversed.

MARIA FRANCISCA O'REILLY DE CAMARA, COUNTESS
OF BUENA VISTA, v. BROOKE, MAJOR GENERAL,
U.S.A.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.No. 104. Argued February 28, March 2, 1908.-Decided March 16, 1908.
A tort can be ratified so as to make an act done in the course of the princi-*
pal's business and purporting to be done in his name, his tort; and the
rule of exonerating the servant when the master assumes liability is still
applicable to a greater or less extent when the master is the sovereign.
The Paquette Habana, 189 U. S. 453, 469.
By virtue of an order of the Secretary of War and also by the Platt amendment of the act of March 2, 1901, c. 803, 31 Stat. 897,'and the treaty
with Cuba of May 22, 1903, 33 Stat. 2249, the acts of the officers of the
United States, during the military occupation of Cuba, complained of
in this action, were ratified by the United States, and those officers relieved of liability therefor.
The courts will not declare an act to be a tort in violation of the law of
nations or of a treaty of the United States when the Executive, Congress
and the treaty-making power have all adopted it.
The holder of a heritable office in Cuba which had been abolished prior to
the extinction of Spanish sovereignty, but who, pending compensation
for its condemnation, was receiving the -emoluments of one of the grants
of the office, held in this case to have no property rights that survived
the extinction of such sovereignty.
142 Fed. Rep. 858, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Frederic R. Coudert, with whom Mr. Paul Fuller, Mr.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

209 U. S.

Crammond Kennedy and Mr. Howard Thayer Kingsbury were
on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
Neither the order of the Secretary of War, nor the "Platt
Amendment" was a ratification by the United States of the
tortious act of General Brooke.
Neither does the Secretary of War possess any such inherent
and plenary powers as to make his order equivalent to a ratification by the United States of a tortiQus conversion of private
property, committed by an army officer in time of peace. The
United States Government has expressly recognized that
"executive action by the War Department . . . is not
due process of law." 22 Ops. Atty. Gen. 518.
General Brooke's order was not, even in terms, included in
'the ratification of the Platt Amendment. By the express
limitation of that statute to "lawful rights" acquired under
the acts of the American administration of Cuban affairs, it
clearly recognized that rights might be claimed thereunder
which would not be lawful, and these it did not attempt to
ratify. It did not purport to deal with a particular act of a
military officer transferring something belonging to A. over to
B.
In any event, General Brooke is individually liable for his
tortious act, irrespective of governmental direction or ratification. Little v. Bareme, 2 Cranch, 170. And see The Charming
Betsy, 2 Cranch, 64; Shattuck v. Maley, 3 Cranch, 458; Mitchell
v. Harmony, 13 How. 115; Grisar v. McDowell, 6 Wall. 363;
Cammeyer v. Newton, 94 U. S. 225; Bates v. Clark, 95 U. S. 204;
Kilbourne v. Thompson, 103 U. S. 168; United States v. Lee, 106
U. S. 196; Virginia Coupon Cases, 114 U. S: 269; In re Ayers,
123 U. S. 443; Magahey v. Virginia, 135 U. S. 662; Belknap v.
Schild, 161 U. S. 10.
General Brooke's act was a trespass upon plaintiff's property
rights and she was entitled to judgment.
The case having been tried by the court without a jury, by
waiver, the decision of the trial judge is conclusive and equivalent to the verdict of a jury. OleomargarineCases, 195 U. S. 30,

O'REILLY DE3 CAMARA v. BROOKE.
209 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

65, 159. It is therefore not open to dispute in this court that
under the law of Spain, which continued in force in Cuba
during the American occupation, plaintiff's franchise was a
property right which survived the withdrawal of the Spanish
sovereignty, that she performed her duty to keep the slaughter-house clean and wholesome; that any nuisance resulting
from the discharge of offal from the slaughter-house into slaughter-house creek had been abated prior to General Brooke's order, and that his order was not a valid exercise of the police
power. It must have been, therefore, an arbitrary confiscation,
and the fact that his motives may have been subjectively meritorious does not justify the trespass. Upon these facts the District Court should have held-and upon the demurrer necessarily and properly did hold-that defendant was liable.
It is immaterial that the plaintiff may have an additional
right of action on contract against the United States or any
other party.
Where officers of the Government tortiously take property
for Government uses, the Government may, by recognizing
the property taken as private property, b~come liable on an
implied contract to pay for it, but the plaintiff could only avail
herself of such right of action ,bywaiving th6 individual tort.
United States v. Great Falls Mfg. Co., 112 U. S.645. This she
is under no obligation to do.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Russell for defendant in error:
Whether a public office is an alienable office or periodically
elective or appointive, it is everywhere and in all cases-a part
of the sovereign authority or a vehicle for such authority and
cannot survive when the sovereignty departs or is extinguished,
and the- termination of Spain's sovereignty as a result of war
put an end to this office long before General Ludlow or General
Brooke issued any order about it.
That termination took place prior to or at the ratification of
the treaty of peace.
Upon the face of the laws and decrees found by the judge as

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

facts and notwithstanding his interpretation of them, we say
that "the emoluments" of the office, if the office had been
pared down to "the emoluments," did not cease to be "emolument5" of an "office,"-emoluments to be collected by virtue
of the sovereign authority of which the whole office was a
part or a vehicle. No part of the office and no fee or tax collected by virtue of holding it or having held it could survive
the sovereignty which had created and maintained. the office
and lent the sovereign power to support the tax or fee.
Such an office or privilege was not such" "property" as was
to be protected under the terms of the treaty with Spain.
Supervision of slaughter-houses and prescribing regulations
for their conduct and the disposition of their refuse is a police
power inherent. in all governments. Slaughter-house Cases,
16 Wall. 61, 62, and 63 and see L'Hote v. New Orleans, 177
U. S. 598; Stone v. Mississippi, 101 U. S. 816; Mugler v. Kansas,
123 U. S. 669; Fertilizing Co. v. Hyde Park, 97 U. S. 668;
Dobbins v. Los Angeles, 195 U. S. 223, 238.
The rule stated in Dobbins v. Los Angeles, 195 U. S. 223, 235,
relative to municipal action applies to the action of General
Brooke in-this case.
MR. JUSTIcE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to review a judgment of the District
Court dismissing a complaint purporting to be brought under
Rev. Stat. § 563, the sixteenth clause of which gives the District Courts jurisdiction "of all suits brought by any alien for a
tort 'only' in violation of the law of nations, or of a treaty of
the United States." 142 Fed. Rep. 858. See 135 Fed. Rep. 384.
The plaintiff is a Spanish subject and alleges a title by.descent
to the right to carry on the slaughter of cattle in the city of
Havana and to receive compensation for the same. (She does
not allege title to the slaughter-house where the slaughtering
was done. That belonged to the city.) According to the complaint the right was incident to an inheritable and alienable

O'REILLY
209 U. S.

DE

CAMARA v. BROOKE.

Opinion of the Court.'

office; that of Alguacil Mayor or High Sheriff of Havana. The
office was abolished in 1878, subject to provisions. that continued the emoluments until the incumbent should be paid.
The plaintiff has not been paid, and in' 1895 one-half of the
emoluments was' sold on execution by consent, the other half
remaining to the plaintiff or those whom she represents. On
May 20, 1899, the Island of Cuba being under, the military
jurisdiction of the tnited States, Brigadier General Ludlow,
then governor. of Havana, issued an order that the grant in
connection with . the service of the city slaughtor-house, of
which the O'Reilly family and its grantees were the beneficiaries, was ended and declared void, and that thenceforth the
city should iMnake .provision for such services. The owners
were referred to the courts and it was decreed that the order
should go. into effect on.the first of June. In pursuance of the.
same, it is alleged, the.plaintiff was depr~vcd of her property.
She appealed, to the let'endant, then mili Yary governor of Cuba.
On'August 10 he. issued an order, reciting the appeal, and
stating that, it being considered prejudicial to the general
welfare of Havana, etc., and in view of the cessation of Spanish
sovereignty, the office of Alguacil Mayor de la Habana, together with all rights pertaining thereto or derived therefrom,
was thereby abolished, and the right of claimants to the office
or emoluments was denied. The city thereafter was to perform
the services. It is alleged that by this action the plaintiff was
prevented, and to this day has been prevented, from carrying
out the duties and receiving 'the emoluments mentioned above.
The complaint ends by alleginig violation of the Treaty of Dccember 10, 1898, 30 Stat. 1754, and of General Orders No. 101,
of July 18, 1898, issued by the President through the Secretary
of War. It also sets up the Constitution of the United States
and the Spanish law in fored before' the Island was ceded by
Spain;
The answer denies the plaintiff's right, but admits the passage
of the order, and sets up a ratification by the United States in
the so-called Platt Amendment of the act of Mareh. 2, 1901, c.
VOL. ccix-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
. Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

803, 31 Stat. 897, to the effect that "all acts of the United States
in Cuba during its military occupancy thereof are ratified and
validated, and all lawful rights acquired thereunder shall be
maintained and protected," afterwards embodied in the Treaty
with Cuba of May 22, 1903. 33 Stat. 2249. The district judge
made a finding of facts, substantially supporting the allegations
of the bill, whicli it is not necessary to set forth in detail, but
stating one further public fact that should be mentioned. The
plaintiff appealed to the Secretary of War to have General
Brooke's order revoked. In answer, Mr. Secretary Root denied
that the rights attached to the office of Sheriff of Havana
survived the sovereignty of Spain, observed that the services
in question were in substance an exercise of the police power
of the State, that the right to exercise that power under Spanish authority ended when Spanish sovereignty in Cuba ended,
and that the petitioner had been deprived of no property whatever. In December, 1900, the United States ratified and
adopted the action of General Brooke through an order of the
Secretary of War, and again by the act of Congress just mentioned and the Treaty of 1903. The judge was of opinion that,
although: there was a public nuisance in the slaughter-house
creek, General Brooke's order was not justified under the police
power, but that by the ratification of the United States the
plaintiff lost any claim against him. The judge intimated,
however, that she had a just one against the United States
under the Treaty with Spain.
We are so clkarly of opinion that the complaint must be dismissed that we shall not do more than mention some technical
difficulties that would have to be discussed before the plaintiff
could succeed. In assuming that General Brooke's order permanently deprived the plaintiff of her rights, although they
were attached to no tangible thing, and although General
Brooke long since has ceased to be Governor of Cuba or to have
any power in the premises, the plaintiff necessarily assumes
that her rights follow the ancient conception of an office and
are an incorporeal hereditament, susceptible of disseisin. 3

O'REILLY
209 U. S.

DE

CAMARA v. BROOKE.

Opinion of the Court.

Kent, 454; Stat. Westm. II, c. 25; 2 Co. Inst. 412; U. S. Rev.
Stat. § 563, c. 13. If we are to apply that conception to
the case, we are led to ask why the disseisin was not complete,
upon the allegations of the complaint, before General Brooke
had anything to do with the matter, or why the brief period
during which his authority intervened should make him answerable not only for what had happened before, but also for
the continued exclusion of the plaintiff by the United States
and by the government of Cuba. But it is very hard to admit
that the notion of a disseisin can be applied for the present
purpose to such disembodied rights any more than to copyrights or patents; and, if not, then all that General Brooke
could be held for, if for anything, would be damages for the disturbances of the plaintiff while he was in power, which are not
the object of this suit. It becomes impossible to go further
than that when it is remembered that the United States asserted
no permanent sovereignty over Cuba, and that, as General
Brooke could not carry the office with him, his interference
must have lost all legal effect in a very short time.
Again, if the plaintiff lost her rights once for all by General
Brooke's order, and so was disseised, it would be a question
to be considered whether a disseisin was a tort within the meaning of Rev. Stat. § 563 (16). In any event, the question hardly
can be avoided whether the supposed tort is "a tort only in
violation of the law of nations" or of the Treaty with Spain.
In this court the plaintiff seems to place more reliance upon
the suggestion that her rights were of so fundamental a nature
that they could not be displaced, even if Congress and the
Executive should unite in the effort. It is not necessary to
say more about that contention than that it is not the ground
on which the jurisdiction of the District Court was invoked.
Coming one step further down, we are met by an argument
on the part of the defendant that the only things that we can
consider are the pleadings and the judgment dismissing the
complaint. It is urged with great force that the decision denying the power of a circuit judge to find and report facts for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

consideration of this court upon a writ of error, Campbell v.
Boyreau, 21 How. 223, although met as to the Circuit Court
by Rev. Stat. §§ 649, 700, still applies to the District Courts.
Rogers v. United States, 141 U. S. 548. However, if we assume
this argument to be correct, there still perhaps may be gathered
from the pleadings, coupled with matters of general knowledge,
enough to present the questions which the plaintiff was entitled
to present below, and therefore we proceed to dispose of the
case upon the merits.
It is said that neither the Executive nor Congress could have
taken the plaintiff's property, and that therefore they could
not ratify the act of General Brooke so as to make his act khat
of the United States and to exonerate him. But it has been held
that a tort could be ratified so far as to make an act done in
the course of the principal's business, and purporting to be done
it his name, his tort, Dempsey-v. Chambers, 154 Massachusetts,
330; and it may be assumed that this is the law as to the wrongful appropriation of property which the principal retains, ibid.
332, and cases cited. The old law, which sometimes at least
was thought to hold the servant exonerated when the master
assumed liability [1 Roll. Abr. 2, pl. 7; 95 (T.); Cremer v. Tookley's Case, Godbolt, 385, 389; Laicock's Case, Latch, 187; Anon.,
1 Mod. 209], still is applied to a greater or less extent when
the master is the sovereign. The Paquete Habana, 189 U. S.
453, 465. It is not necessary to consider what limits there may
be to the doctrine, for we think it plain that where, as here,
the jurisdiction of the case depends upon the establishment
of a "tort only in violation of the law of nations, or of a treaty
of the United States," it is impossible for the courts to declare
an act a tort of that kind when the Executive, Congress and
the treaty-making power all have adopted the act. We see
no reason to doubt that the ratification extended to the conduct of General Brooke.
But we do not dwell longer upon the ratification of what was
done during the military occupation of Cuba, or consider the
question whether the ratification was needed, because we agree

SMITH v. RAINEY.
209 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

with the opinion of the Secretary of War that the plaintiff had
no property that survived the extinction of the sovereignty of
Spain. The emoluments to which she claims a right were merely
the incident of an office, and were left in her hands only until
the proceedings for condemnation of the office should be completed and she should be paid. The right to the office was the
foundation of the right to the emoluments. Whether the office
was or was not extinguished in the sense that it no longer could
be exercised, the right remained so far that it was to be paid
for, and if it had been paid for the right to the emoluments
would have ceased. If the right to the office or to compensation for the loss of it was extinguished, all the plaintiff's rights
were at an end. No ground is disclosed in the bill for treating
the right to slaughter cattle as havihg become a hereditament
independent of its source. But of course the right to the office
or to be paid for it did not exist as against the United States
Government, and unless it did the plaintiff's case is at an end.
Judgment affirmed.

SMITH v. RAINEY.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

SUPREME

COURT

OF THE

TERRITORY

OF

ARIZONA.
No. 144.

Argued March 3, 4, 1908.-Decided March 10, 1908.

A partner has a lien on the firm's assets for the repayment of his advances
to the firm, and in this case held, that the articles of copartnership, construed as a whole, provided that the partner in a land venture advancing the amount needed for the venture should have a lien on the land
regarded as assets.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Lewis M. Ogden, with whom Air. James G. Flander.
was on the brief, for appellant.

