SHAWNEE COMPRESS CO. v. ANDERSON.
209 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

SHAWNEE COMPRESS COMPANY v. ANDERSON.
APPEAL

FROM THE SUPREME

COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF

OKLAHOMA.
No. 140. Argued March 2, 3, 1908.-Decided April 13, 1908.
Where the Supreme Court of the Territory of Oklahoma reverses the judgment of the trial court, the reviewing power of this court is limited to
determining whether there was evidence supporting the findings and
whether the facts found were adequate to sustain the legal conclusions.
In this case, the Supreme Court of the Territory having found that a lease,
being made to further an unlawful enterprise, was void as an unreasonable 'restraint of trade and as against public policy, this court sustains
the judgment, there being proof supporting the conclusions to the effect
that the lessor company agreed to go out of the field of competition, not
to enter that field again, and to render every assistance to prevent pthers
from entering it--other acts in aid of a scheme of monopoly also being
proved.
It is not necessary to determine whether the Supreme Court of the Territory based its judgment holding such a lease void, on the common law, on
the Sherman law, or on the statutes of the Territory; the restraint placed
upon the lessor was greater than the protection of the lessee required.
17 Oklahoma, 231, affirmed.
THIS suit was brought in the District Court of the county of
Lincoln, Territory of Oklahoma, by appelleeq as stockholders
of the Shawnee Compress Company against appellants, to
cancel a lease made by the Shawnee Compress Company to
the Gulf Compress Company..
The original petition alleged that the compress companies
were respectively corporations of Oklahoma and the State
of Alabama; that the plaintiffs, appellees here, were minority
stockholders of the Shawnee Company; that certain of the
stockholders of the Shawnee Company, claiming to be its
officers, "conceived the idea of leasing the entire property and
business of said company, together with its good will and the
right to the business thereof to said defendant, Gulf Compress
Company, a foreign corporation;" that subsequently the

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

209 U. S.

same stockholders, claiming to be the directors of the corporation in certain meetings and by certain resolutions, executed
the purpose. These meetings. were alleged to be invalid as
not being in conformity with the by-laws, and that the proceedings therein were "wholly illegal and beyond the powers
and authority of the said stockholders and directors of said
corporation;" that the corporation was organized 'to construct and operate. a cotton compress in the city of Shawnee,
and that its officers and stockholders were not authorized to
execute a lease for a period of years, vesting in another and
foreign corporation, the rights, duties and business of the company, and that the lease was void as against the rights of plaintiffs, being minority stockholders of the company. A copy of
the lease was attached to the petition.
The petition was amended, making the allegations somewhat fuller, and alleged that appellants Stubbs and Beatty,
who assumed to. act respectively as president and secretary
of the company, and certain other stockholders who joined
with them in the negotiation of the lease, were induced thereto
by certain advantages personal to themselves and not by the
interest of the company. It was also alleged that the "exigencies -of the business" of the company did not demand or
justify the lease, and that its revenues for the season 1904-1905,
over and above taxes and insurance, notwithstanding negligent and incompetent management, were $7,485.89; and,
plaintiffs expressed the belief, could be made greater for the
years covered by the lease. It was alleged that the Gulf Compress Company was in the business of leasing and operating
competing compresses for the purpose of monopolizing, as
far as possible, the business of compressing cotton in a large
portion, if not all, of the cotton-raising districts of the United
States, and that the lease was procured from the Shawnee
Company in pursuance of said scheme, and other leases of
other compresses were also secured for like purposes, and that
the Gulf Company is in its operation and method of conducting
business a trust, combine and conspiracy, in restraint of trade

SHAWNEE COMPRESS CO. v. ANDERSON.
209 U. S.

425

Statement of the Cae.

and commerce, in- violation of the Federal anti-trust law and
the anti-trust law of the Territory of Oklahoma, and that it
is the design of the Gulf Compress Company to increase the
charge of compressing cotton, and that it will be able to enforce
such charges by reason of the fact that it will control all of
the compresses in the Territory.
There was a demurrer to the petition, which was overruled.
An answer was then filed, which in detail asserted the validity
of the proceedings preceding the execution of the lease; that
the company was indebted in the sum of $17,250-$6,000 to
the Shawnee National Bank and $11,250 to the Webb Press
Company, Limited, which was past due; that its creditors were
pressing for payment, and that the lease was necessary in
order to procure money by which to pay the Shawnee Bank
and to secure the extension of time on the indebtedness due
the Webb Press Company, and that for these reasons the negotiations for the lease were entered into and the lease finally
made. And it is alleged that the consideration paid was fair
and reasonable and for the best interest of the stockholders of
the Shawnee Company; that defendants could procure said
second mortgage money in no other way, and that the property of the Shawnee Company would have been sold at a great
sacrifice unless the lease had been made.
It is alleged that appellees are firms of cotton buyers, and
in order to obtain an unfair advantage over other buyers have
conspired together for the purpose of forming a monopoly of
all the compresses in the Territory and destroying competition
in compressing, and, in order to carry out the conspiracy, have,
for more than six months, endeavored to obtain a majority
of the stock of the Shawnee Company, and, knowing that Beatty
and Stubbs were involved and in need of money, have in all
ways oppressed said Beatty, and Stubbs to compel them to
sell their stock to appellants for an inadequate consideration
and conspired to compel the Shawnee Company, knowing it
was involved and its demands pressing, to sell and convey its
property to them for the inadequate consideration of $25,000.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Appellants.

209 U S.

And it is alleged that the lease was made to defeat such conspiracy. Other plans of the appellees to harass the Shawnee
Company are averred.
The case went to trial on the issues thus formed and resulted
in a judgment for defendants (appellants here). The judgment recited that "the court haying heard all the evidence
offered

.

.

.

and being fully advised in the premises finds

for the defendants and against the plaintiffs that the allegations of the petition of the plaintiffs are not supported by the
law and the evidence."
A motion for a new trial was denied and the case was then
taken to the Supreme Court of the Territory, which court
reversed the judgment of the court below, and the case was
remanded to the District Court, with instructions to that court
to render judgment for plaintiffs in the case (appellees here')
in accordance with the opinion of the Supreme Court, and
the prayer of the amended petition.
Mr. B. B. Blakeney, with whom Mr. G. T. Fitzhugh was on
the brief, for appellants:
An act is not necessarily invalid because in restraint of
trade, when the restriction of trade is an ancillary or incidental
result.
To be condemned by the law a contract must be an agreement between the parties to restrict trade, and such contract
is invalid, whatever may be the result of its operation. If a
purchaser buys one or more compresses and operates them
as his own property, competition is to that extent restricted,
but being incidental, such contract is not invalid, and will
not be held invalid because the purchaser may have taken a
contract from the seller obligating the seller not to carry on or
resume such business. Such provisions are usual and have been
sanctioned by the courts. Fowle et al. v. Park et al., 131 U. S.
88; Gibbs v. Gas Co., 130 U. S. 396; Cin., P. B. S. & P. P. Co.
v. Bay et al., 200 U. S. 179; United States v. Joint Traffic Association, 171 U. S. 505; Bement & Sons v. National Harrow Co.,

SHAWNEE COMPRESS CO. v. ANDERSON.
209 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

186 U. S. 70, 92; Navigation Company v. Windsor, 20 Wall.
64, 68; Diamond Match Co. v. Roeber, 106 N. Y. 473; Tode v.
Gross, 127 N. Y. 480; Beal v. Chase, 31 Michigan, 490; Hubbard
v. Miller, 27 Michigan, 15; National Ben. Co. v. Union Hospital Co., 45 Minnesota, 272; Whitney v. Slayton, 40 Maine, 224;
Pierce v. Fuller, 8 Massachusetts, 222; Richards v. Seating Co.,
87 Wisconsin, 503; National Enameling & Co. v. Haveman,
120 Fed. Rep. 415; United States v. Addyston P. & S. Co., 29
C. C. A. 141; S. C., 85 Fed. Rep. 271; Davis v. Booth, -131
Fed. Rep. 31, 37; S. C., 127 Fed. Rep. 871; In re Greene, 52
Fed. Rep. 104; Chicago, St. L. &c. Ry. Co. v. Pullman, 139
U. S. 79; Jarvis et al. v. Knapp, 121 Fed. Rep. 39; Booth et
al. v.. Davis, 127 Fed. Rep. 871, and cases cited; Carter v.
Alling, 43 Fed. Rep. 208; Harrison v. Refining Co., 116 Fed.
Rep. 304; State v. Shippers Compress &c. Co., 95 Texas, 603;
S. C., 69 S. W. Rep. 58.
The statutes of Oklahoma expressly authorize a contract of
this character. Wilson's Revised and Annotated Statutes of
Oklahoma, §§ 819, 820.
Both of these statutes were adopted from the statutes of
California and have been frequently construed by the Supreme
Court of that State. Brown v Kling, 101 California, 295;
Gregory v. Speiker, 110 California, 150; Ragsdale v. Nagle,
106 California, 332; City Carpet Beating &c. Works v. Jones,
102 California, 506; Vulcan Powder Company v. Hercules
Powder Company, 96 California, 510.
Under these sections of the statute one who
leases a compress and its good will may enter into a contract to refrain
from carrying on a similar business within a specified county.
The contract of lease in controversy limits such competition
to fifty miles.
The evidence did not disclose whether a radius of fifty miles
would have carried it without the boundaries of the county
or not, but if fifty miles was an excessive restriction, the excess only was invalid and the restriction might be enforced
within the limits of the law.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Appellees.

209 U. S.

Such a contract being valid could not serve as a basis for
concluding that it would be against public policy by creating
an unnecessary restraint of trade, preventing competition and
creating a monopoly.
The court below overlooked a 'well recognized principle
which would control in any event in the disposition of this
case. If the Gulf Compress Company itself was a monopoly,
the Shawnee Compress Company could not for that reason
prevent the specific performance of a contract for sale or lease,
and, a priori, the minority stockholders could not interpose to
prevent such performance. Trenton Pottery Co. v. Olyphant,
51 N. J. E. 507;' Diamond Match Co. v. Roeber, 106 N. Y. 473;
Metcalf v. American School Furniture Co., 122 Fed. Rep. 115120; Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S.547; Willoughby v. Chicago Junction Ry. Co., 50 N. J. 656.
Mr. James R. Keaton and Mr. Andrew Wilson, with whom
Mr. John W. Shartel, Mr. Frank Wells and Mr. Noel W. Barksdale were on the brief, for appellees:
The contract of lease from the Shawnee Compress Company to the Gulf Compress Company, of April 26, 1905, tended
to create a combination unreasonably in restraint of trade, the
prevention of competition and the establishment of a monop-.
oly, therefore being against public policy. 26 Stat. at Large,
209, c. 647, § 3; Wilson's Statutes of Oklahoma, §§ 819, 820.
The contract is illegal under the common law, also, which declares all contracts in unreasonable restraint of trade to be
contrary to public policy and void.
Under the act of Congress above referred to not only contracts in unreasonable restraint of trade, but every contract in
restraint of trade is condemned. See Pocahontas Coke Co. v.
Powhatan Coal &c. Co., 60 W. Va. 508; S. C., 56S. E. Rep.
264; Addyston Pipe & Steel Co. v. United States, 175 U. S.211.
In view of the evidence, it certainly cannot be said that any
portion of the lease would unquestionably have been entered
into regardless of the provisions for illegal restraint and hence

SHAWNEE COMPRESS CO. v. ANDERSON.
209 U. S.

429

Opinion of the Court.

the entire contract must fall. Okla. Stat. 1893, § 810; Wilson's A nn..Stat. § 767; Bishop;v. Palmer, 146 Massachusetts,
469; Western Wooden-Ware Assn. v. Starkey, 84 Michigan, 76;
Saratoga Co. Bank v. King, 44 N. Y. 87; Consumers' Oil Co. v.
Nunnemaker, 142 Indiana, 560; More v. Bonnet, 40 California,
251; Frost v: More, 40 California, 347.
A contract based upon several considerations, one of which
is ufflawful, is void. Edwards C7o. v. Jennings, 89 Texas, 618;
Gage v. Fisher, 5 N. D. 297; Collins v. Merrell. (Ky.), 2 Met.
163; St. L. J. & Co. A. R. Cd. v. Math'ers, 104 Illinois, 257.
Furthermore, the§e provisions, in connection with the undisputed testimony to the effect that one of his purposes in procuring the execution of said lease on behalf of the Gulf Compress
Company was to prevent unreasonable or unnecessary conipetition, renders the entire. lease contract void, under § 3 of the
Sherman law which applies to trade and commerce within
the Territories as well as to interstate commerce. Northern
Securities Co. v. United States, 193 U. S. 196; Western WoodenWare Association v. Starkey, 84 Michigan, 76; Santa Clara Val.
M. & L. Co. v. Hayes, 76 California, 387; Pacific Factor Co. v.
Adler, 90 California, 110; Anheuser-Busch v. Houck, 88 Texas,
184; State v'DistillingCo., 29 Nebraska, 700.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The Supreme Court of the Territory, in its opinion, discussed only two of the questions urged upon its consideration,
to wit (1) the legal power of the Shawnee Compress Company
to execute the lease; and (2) the purpose in its execution to
secure, a monopoly of the business of compressing cotton and
to unlawfully restrict competition. Of the first the court said:
"We find no express authority to lease set out in the articles
of incorporation, but we are nevertheless of the opinion the
weight of authority is that when a strictly private corporation
finds it cannot profitably continue operations it may lawfully
make-a lease of its entire property for a term of years."

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

The court cited cases, and continued (p. 238): "It is only
when such exigencies exist as necessitate or render appropriate
such or similar action that the right can be exercised." And
it was observed that while there was no special finding of fact
"in that regard by the trial court, yet this feature must necessarily have been considered, in the light of the evidence
introduced at the trial, and the judgment based thereon."
The court further. said that it found "ample authority in
the record for that action " and, following the rule "often
reiterated," the court further said, "it must hold that where
the record contains some evidence to support the finding of
the trial court," the.judgment will not be disturbed.
The ruling sustaining the power of the Shawnee Company
to execute the lease is attacked by appellees, but we do not
find it necessary to express an opinion upon it, on account of
the view we entertain Of the second proposition.
In passing on the second proposition the Supreme Court
decided adversely to the view taken by the trial court. The
court therefore must either have considered that there was not.
some evidence supporting the conclusions of fact of the trial
court or must have deemed the principles of law which the
trial court upheld were not sustained by its conclusion of fact.
As our review, in the nature of things, is confined to determining whether the court below erred, it follows that our reviewing power under the circumstances is coincident with the
authority to review possessed by the court below, and therefore we are confined, as was the court below, to determining
whether there was some evidence supporting the findings and
whether the facts found were adequate to sustain the legal
conclusions. Southern Pine Lumber Co. v. Ward, 208 U. S.
126.
The court, in its opinion, gives a summary of the pleadings
and states the salient points of the lease to be that it conveys
all of the property of the Shawnee Company to the Gulf Company, that the Shawnee Company covenants that it will not
"directly or indirectly engage in the compressing of cotton

SHAWNEE COMPRESS CO. v. ANDERSON.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

within fifty miles of any plant operated by the" Gulf Company, and that the Shawnee Company 'agrees and pledges"
to the Gulf Company "its good will, moral and legal support,
and that it, individually and collectively, will render the
'Gulf Company' every assistance in discouraging unreasonable
and unnecessary competition." And from the evidence the
court deduces the following conclusions. (p. 236):
"It further appears from the evidence at the trial that
C. C. Hanson is the president of both the Atlanta Compress
Company and the Gulf Compress Company, being a stockholder in each, and is the one who negotiated the lease in question. That the Atlanta Compress Company operates .in the
States of Alabama, Georgia and Florida, and was organized
and is owned and controlled solely by the carriers for their
benefit. That the board of directors and stockholders of said
corporation are composed entirely of railroad officials. That
the Atlanta Company controls the operation of twenty-five
plants. That the Gulf Compress Company is a close corporation, chartered in Mobile, t abama, and operating in the
States of Alabama, Mississippi, Tennessee, Louisiana, Arkansas, Indian Territory and Oklahoma, and controlling the
operation of twenty-seven compresses in those States, located
at various points therein. That none of the Gulf Company's
plants and the Atlanta Company's compresses are operated at
the same points.
"It is further disclosed by the evidence that the capital
stock of the Gulf Company, as originally incorporated, was
$25,000.00, but that it has, within the past year, been increased
to one million dollars, of which $600,000.00 is treasury stock.
That its field of operation has been rapidly extended from
Alabama to all the cotton-growing territory; that it is at the
present time engaged in the purchase or leasing of compresses
at various points, and, as testified to by its president, is 'prepared to buy or lease, whichever proposition suits us best.'
It appears from the evidence that negotiations conducted by
Mr. Hanson with Stubbs and Beatty for the lease of the Shaw-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

nee plant were in pursuance of an effort to avoid, 'directly or
indirectly, the possibility, if not probability, of unnecessary
and unreasonable competition.'
"It is furthe& disclosed by the testimony that the carrier
pays for the compression of cotton, incorporating the cost
thereof in its tariff. That tariffs for the hauling of cotton are
established by the railroads as well as hauling districts or
territories, within which the haul of cotton must be one way,
or otherwise the higher rate, denominated the terminal rate,
applies, rendering it unprofitable to ship to other than the
established point in the hauling district."
And the court says that from these facts, and others referred
to supporting them, it cannot be doubted that the object of
the Gulf Company and its allied corporation, the Atlanta
Compress Company, "is to prevent competition in compression of cotton throughout the cotton-producing States." The
court declared it to be its judgment that "not only is the enterprise in which the Gulf Compress Company is engaged an unlawful one, as now conducted, but the contract in question
in this case, being made to further its objects and purposes,
is void on the ground that it is in unreasonable restraint of
trade and against public policy."
This conclusion is the direct antithesis of that drawn by
the trial court and we are brought to the inquiry, is it justified?
The evidence cannot be given in detail, and we may say at
the outset that there is no question as to its weight-we are
not confronted with conflicting testimonies. This branch of
the case is constituted of the lease, principally of the testimony
of one witness, the president of the Gulf Company, and of
facts which are not disputed. The other testimony, a great
deal of which is documentary, is mostly directed to the financial condition of the Shawnee Company as the inducement
of the lease and to the proceedings taken to authorize its execution. There is also testimony directed against the purpose
and motives of the appellees, and some tending to show that
one of the officers and stockholders of the Shawnee Company

SHAWNEE COMPRESS CO. v' ANDERSON.
209 U. S.

433

Opinion of the Court.

had been loaned money by the president of the Gulf Company,
whereby control of the Shawnee Company might be obtained
and the lease authorized. This, however, we may put out of
view.
It may be conceded that the evidence shows that the Shawnee Company was financially embarrassed, and its condition
might have justified a lease of its property if that had been
all it did. It, however, covenanted for its assistance in discouraging competition against its tenant, and bound itself
not to "directly or indirectly engage in the compressing of
cotton within fifty miles of any plant operated by the tenant."
So far it covenanted to aid in the restraint of trade. It went
out of the field of competition; it covenanted not to enter
into that field again, and .it pledged itself to render every
assistance to prevent others from entering it. And it could not
misunderstand the purpose for which its lease was solicited.
It was told by the president of the Gulf Compress Company.
In a letter dated April 18, 1905, addressed to it by the president of that company, among other inducements, the following
was expressed: "Our getting together on a lease proposed
means the avoiding for each other, directly or indirectly, of
the possibility, if not probability, of unnecessary competition."
And what was the condition to which the Shawnee Company
contributed? It appears from the letter just mentioned that
the writer was president of two companies, which operated
"forty odd compresses." Twenty-seven of them, it appears
from the testimony, were operated by the Gulf Company, six
only of which it owned. Most of the latter were acquired in
the summer preceding the lease, and the president of the Gulf
Company testified that "we are prepared to buy or lease,
whichever proposition suits us best." To what object was the
assembling in one ownership or management so many compresses, and keeping the means and declaring the purpose of
acquiring more? The answer would seem to be obvious. The
first effect would necessarily be the cessation of competition.
if there was left a possibility' of other compresses being convoL. ccix-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

structed, it was made less by the power that could be opposed
to them. The Gulf Company was a close corporation, which,
starting in Alabama, rapidly extended from Alabama to all
the cotton-growing territory. These are some of the points of
the testimony which, taken in connection with other testimony, and with the terms of the lease and the restriction upon
the Shawnee Company, support the conclusions of the Supreme Court of the Territory. This case presents something
more than the lease of property by the Shawnee Company,
induced or made necessary by financial embarrassment. It
presents something more than the acquisition by the Gulf
Company of another compress-of a mere addition to its
business. It presents acts in aid of a scheme of monopoly.
Swift Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375.
It does not appear whether the Supreme Court based its
judgment upon the common law, the Sherman law, act of
July 2, 1890, c. 647, 26 Stat. 209, or the statutes of Oklahoma.
The appellees insist that the law applicable to the case comes
from all three sources. The Sherman law provides that,
"Every contract, combination in form of trust or otherwise,
or conspiracy, in restraint of trade or commerce in any territory
of the United States or of the District of Columbia
ishereby declared illegal." And it has been decided that not
only unreasonable but all direct restraints of trade are prohibited, the law being thereby distinguished from the common
law. But it is contended that it was held in United States v.
Trans-Missouri Freight Association, 166 U. S. 290, and in
United States v. Joint Traffic Association, 171 U. S.505, that
the sale of the good will of a business with an accompanying
agreement not to engage in a similar business was not a restraint of trade within the meaning of the Sherman act.
Counsel has discussed with an affluent citation of cases the
principle which regulates such contracts, and insists that the
lease by the Shawnee Company conforms to such principle.
The principle is well understood. The restraint upon one of
the parties must not be greater than protection to the other

SHAWNEE COMPRESS CO. v. ANDERSON.
209 U. S.

435

Opinion of the Court.

party requires, and it needs no further explanation than is
given in Gibbs v. Baltimore Gas Company, 130 U. S. 396. The
Supreme Court of the Territory recognized the principle, but
said: "Tested by the general principles applicable to contracts of this character, this agreement is far more extensive
in its, outlook and more onerous in its intention than is necessary to afford a fair protection to the lessee." And in this
conclusion the statute of the Territory may have had its influence. That statute makes void every contract by which
any one is restrained from exercising a lawful profession, trade
or business, except, however, that one who sells the good will
of a business may agree with the buyer to refrain from carrying
on a similar business within a specified county, city or part
thereof. Wilson's Statutes, §§ 819, 820. It is clear that the
lease of the Shawnee Company to the Gulf Company does not
literally comply with this requirement. Whether it can be
limited by construction, as it is contended by appellants it
can be, we need not decide. As written, it was, no doubt, considered with other considerations by the court in concluding
that "the real, the veritable purpose actuating the officers
of the Gulf Compress Company, as disclosed by its plan of
operation, and as manifested by the circumstances surrounding the conduct of its business and the results of its management by them is, beyond a reasonable question, to place within
their power the control of the compress industry, by purchasing or leasing those plants which are advantageously located
in each of the hauling districts or territories established by
the carriers (railroads) in their cotton tariffs. Within certain
boundaries the hauling must be one way, and when the Gulf
Company seizes the strategic point, under its lease, competition within that district is annihilated."
Decree affirmed.

