UNITED STATES v. HERMANOS Y COMPANIA.
209 U. S.

337

Syllabus.

proofs of, or paid such loss or damage, it shall forward the
proof of its loss and claim and a copy of the receipt taken for
payment. It means that if the loss or claim has been in fact
paid, then a copy of the receipt is to be sent, but it does not
mean that there must be payment before any liability on the
part of the reinsuring company exists.
We do not think that the language. of these two subdivisions
was intended to entirely nullify and tear up by the roots the
construction given to the contract of reinsurance for so many
years throughout the civilized world and upon which its chief
value is based. The nature of the contract is accurately described in its commencement. It is described as a "compact
of reinsurance," and there has been no doubt as to the meaning
of such contract for the last two centuries. The judgment of
the Court of Appeals is right, and is
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. CERECEDO HERMANOS Y
COMPA9IA.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
PORTO RICO.

No. 152. Submitted March 5, 1008.-Decided April 6, 1908.

When the meaning of a statute is doubtful the construction given by the
department charged with its execution should be given great weight.
Robertson v. Downing, 127 U. S. 607; United States v. Healy, 160 U. S.
136.

The reenactment by Congress, without change, of a statute which had
previously received long continued executive construction, is an adoption
by Congress of such construction. United States v. Falk, 204 U. S. 143.
Par. 296 of the Tariff Act of July 11, 1897, construed in accordance with
Treasury decisions.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.
VOL. CCIX-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinioti of the Court.

209.U. S.

Mr. Assistant. Attorney General Sanford for appellant, submitted.
No counsel appeared for appellee.
MR. JusTicE McKENNA delivered the opinion of

the court.

The appellee imported into Porto Rico from France thirty
cases of red wine, twenty-four bottles to the case, and each
bottle containing more than one pint and less than a quart of
wine.
The wine was classified by appraisers at the port of San
Juan under paragraph 296 of the 'present tariff act and the
reciprocity treaty with France of May 30, 1898, as being dutiable at $1.25 per dozen bottles, making a total of $75. Upon
this classification the entry was liquidated and the duty paid.
The appellee in due time protested against the classification
and the decision of the collector, stating that "the wine in
question has been assessed at $1.25 per dozen bottles, when
it should be by cases of 24/2 bottles."
The board of appraisers decided against the collector and
in favor of the protest, saying:
"The wine in question being contained in cases of 24 bottles,
and each bottle containing over a pint, was clearly subject
to duty at $1.60 per case, and any excess beyond this quantity
found in such bottles would be subject to a duty only of 5
cents per pint or fractional part thereof."
The District Court affirmed the decision of the board of
appraisers.
The only question in the case is the construction of paragraph 296, the material portions of which are as follows:
"In bottles or jugs, per case of 1 dozen bottles or jugs, containing each not more than 1 quart and more than 1 pint, or
24 bottles or jugs containing each not more than 1 pint, $1.60
per case; and any excess beyond these quantities found in
such bottles or jugs shall be subject to a duty of 5 cents per
pint or fractional part thereof.

.

."

UNITED STATES v. HERMANOS
209 U. S.

Y

COMPANIA.

339

Opinion of the Court.

It is the contention of the Government that the paragraph
separates still wines in bottles into three classes and fii:es a,
specific rate of duty on each, as follows:
"(a) Bottles 'containing each not more than one pint,'
which are to be assessed as full pints at $1.60 peq 24 bottles,
or at. the rate of 6 cents per pint; (b) b6ttles 'containing each
not more than one quart and more than one pint,' which are
to be assessed as full quarts at $1.60 per dozen bottles, that is,
at the same rate of 6 cents per pint; and (c) bottles containing
'any excess beyond these quantities,' which are to be assessed
at the rate of $1.60 per dozen, plus 5 cents per pint or fractional pint on the excess over a quart contained in'each bottle."
We think the contention isright, and needs no comment to
make it clear.
Counsel for the Government also points out that the provisions of the. tariff act of 1875 and subsequent acts were
substantially similar to par-.graph 296, and that the Treasury
decisions thereunder were in accordance with the interpretation for which the Government now contends. The first of
these decisions was made in 1879. -In re De Luze, T. D. 4060.
The ruling was repeated in 1893. In re G. W. Sheldon & Co.,
T. D. 14,461. And again in 1899. In re Wyman, T. D. 20843.
We have said that when the meaning of a statute is- doubtful great weight should be given to the construction placed
upon it by the department charged with its execution. Robertson v. Downing, 127-U. S. 607;United States v. Healey, 160
U. S. 136. And we have decided that the reenactment by
Congress, without change, of a statute, which had previously
received long continued executive construction, is an adoption
by Congress of such construction. United Statis v. Falk, 204
U. S. 143, 152.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE and MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM concur
solely because of the prior administrative construction.

