HALLOWELL v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

209 U. S.

being subject in respect thereof to such laws as are applicable
to other foreigners."
We concur with the conclusions of the Supreme Court of
the Philippines, and its judgment is
Affirmed.

HALLOWELL v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 175.

Argued March 12, 1908.-Decided March 23, 1908.

The authority given by § 6 of the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat.
826, to the Circuit Court of Appeals, to certify propositions of law to
this court, cannot be used. for the purpose of sending to this court the
whole case for its consideration and decision. A certificate which does
not set forth the propositions of law, clearly stated, which may be answered without reference to all the facts, but which sets forth mixed
questions of law and fact requiring this court to construe acts of Congress, and, in the light of all the testimony, to determine what should
be the judgment of the lower court, is defective and must be dismissed.
C., B. & Q. Ry. Co. v. Williams, 205 U. S. 444, 454.

case is here upon certified questions by the judges of
the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The certified questions and the statement of the case which
precedes them are as follows:
"The indictment was returned November 16, 1905, and
charged that the defendant, on August 1, 1905, in the District
of Nebraska, introduced whiskey and. other intoxicating liquors
into the Indian country, 'to wit, into and upon the Omaha
Indian. Reservation, a reservation set apart for the exclusive
useand benefit of certain tribes of the Omaha Indians.' The
defendant entered -a plea of not guilty and the case was submitted to. a jury upon the following agreed statement:
THIS

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

209 U. S.

"'That the defendant, Simeon Hallowell, an Omaha Indian,
is and was on the first day of August, 1905, an allottee of land
granted to him on the Omaha Indian Reservation, in Thurston
County, Nebraska; that the allotment so made to him was
made under the provisions of the act of Congress of August 7,
1882 (22 Stat. 341); that the first or trust patent was issued
to him in the year 1884, and that the twenty-five year period
of the trust limitation has not yet expired; and that the fee
title of the allotment so made to him is still held by the United
States.
"'That the defendant, Simeon Hallowell, on the first of
August, 1905, procured at a point outside the said reservation
one-half gallon of w~hiskey which he took to his home, which
was within the limits of the Omaha Indian Reservation, and
upon an allotment which he had inherited and which allotment was made under the provisions of the act of Congress,
of August 7, 1882, and the title of which is held by the Government as the twenty-five year trust period has not expired.
That he took the said whiskey into and upon this allotment
for the purpose of drinking and using the same himself, and
that he did drink said whiskey and did Live some of it to his
friends or visitors to drink.
"' That the said Omaha Indian Reservation has been allotted
practically in whole and that many of the allotments of deceased Omaha Indians have been sold to white people, under
the provisions of the act of Congress of May 27, 1902 (32 Stat.
245, 275); that within the original boundary limits of the
Omaha Indian Reservation there are many tracts of land
that have been sold, under the provisions of said act, to white
persons who are the sole owners thereof, and that the full title
to such lands has passed to the purchaser, the same as if a
final patent without restriction upon alienation had been
issued to the allottee.
"'That all of the Omaha Indians who were living in the
year 1884, and by law entitled to allotments, received them.
" 'That the Omaha Indian Reservation is within and a

HALLOWELL v. UNITED STATES.
209 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

physical part of the organized territory of the State of Nebraska, as are also the allotments herein referred to, into and
upon which the said defendant took said whiskey. That the
Omaha Indians exercise the rights of citizenship, and participate in the County and State government extending over the
said Omaha Indian Reservation, and over and upon the allotments herein referred to. That the defendant, Simeon Hallowell, has been on frequent occasions a Judge and Clerk of
election, a Justice of the Peace, an Assessor, and a Director
of the public school district in which he lives. That Omaha
Indians have taken part in the State and County government, extending over the reservation, and have held the following offices in said County of Thurston, State of Nebraska:
County Coroner, County Attorney, County Judge, Justice of the
Peace, Constable, Road Overseer, Election officers, and have
also served as jurors in the county and district courts. Defendant is self-supporting as are most of said Indians. Some
of them are engaged in business and most of them engaged in
farming.'
"Over the defendant's objection that the matters recited
in the agreed statement did not constitute or show an offense
against laws of the United States, the court instructed the jury
that,- if the matters so recited were true, the defendant was
guilty of the offense charged. The defendant reserved an
exception to this ruling. The jury found him guilty.
"And the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit
*further certifies that the following questions of law are presented to it in said cause; that their decision is indispensable
to a decision of the cause, and that to the end that such court
may properly decide the issues of law so presented, it desires
the instruction of the Supreme Court of the United States upon
such question, to wit.
"1. After the allotment in se'veralty to the Omaha Indians
of practically all of the lands in the Omaha Indian Reserva.tion in the State of Nebraska and the issuance to the several
allottees of the first or trust patents, under the act of August 7,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
statement of the Case.

209 U. S.

1882 (22 Stat. 341), and after the provisions of §7 of that act
and of §6 of the act of February 8, 1887 (24 Stat. 388), had
become effective as to such allottees, did Congress retain or
possess the power to regulate or prohibit the introduction of
intoxicating liquors upon such allotments, while the title to
the same should be held in trust by the United States, or while
the same should remain inalienable by the allottee without
the consent of the United States?
"2. Do the facts that the tribal relation of these Indians
is still maintained and that part of the lands in said reservation are unallotted and are held by the United States for the
use and benefit of the said tribe, as provided in §8 of the said
act of August 7, 1882, enable Congress, consistently with the
provisions and effect of § 7 of that act and of § 6 of the said
act of February 8, 1887, to regulate or prohibit the introduction of intoxicating liquors upon such allotments, while the
same shall be held in trust by the United States, or while the
same shall remain inalienable by the allottee without the .consent of the United States?
"3. As applied to allotments in severalty to Indians of
lands in a State, when the land is to be held in trust for the
allottee for a stated period and is then to be conveyed to him
or his heirs :n fee and is to remain inalienable by him during
such trust period without the consent of the United States,
and when the. effect of the allotment is to give to the allottee
the benefit of and to subject him to the laws, both civil and
criminal, of the State, and to make him a citizen of the United
States and to entitle him to all the rights, privileges and immunities of such citizens, is that portion of the act of Janu-.
ary 30, 1897 (29 Stat. 506), which purports to regulate the
introduction of intoxicating liquors upon such allotments,
-while the title to the same shall be held by the United States
or while the same shall remain inalienable by the allottee
without the consent of the United States, a valid exercise of
the power of Congress to legislate in respect of Indians or
Indian lands?

4IALLOWELL v. UNITED STATES.
209 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

"4. Where, as shown by the stipulated facts, the defendant, Simeon Hallowell, an Omaha Indian, is
an allottee of
lands granted to him on the Omaha Indian Reservation, in
Thurston County, State of Nebraska, which allotment was
made to him under the provisions of the act of Congress of
August 7, 1882 (22 Stat. 351), and the first patent was issued
to him in the year 1884, and the twenty-five years' period of
the trust limitation fixed by said act has not expired, and the
fee title of tle allotment so made to him is still held by the
United States; and where 'the said Omaha Indian Reservation
has been allotted practically in whole, and many of the allotments of deceased Omaha Indians have been sold to white
people under the provisions of the act of Congress of May 27,
1902 (32 Stat. 245, 275);' and within the original boundary
limits of the Omaha Indian Reservation many tracts of land
were hitherto sold under the provisions of said act to white
persons, who are the sole owners thereof, and to whom the
full title to such lands has passed to the purchaser, the same
as if the final patent without restriction upon alienation had
been issued to the allottee ; and where all of the Omaha Indians, living in the year 1884, entitled to such allotments,
have received the same; and where said Omaha Indian Reservation is within and a physical part of the organized territory
of the State of Nebraska, as also the allotment hereinbefore
referred to; and the said Omaha Indians, including the defendant, are citizens of the United States, and exercise the
rights of citizenship, participating in the County and State
governments extending over said Omaha Indian Reservation,
and over the allotments aforesaid, the said defendant, Simeon
Hallowell, having, on frequent occasions prior to 1905, held
and exercised the office of Judge, and Justice of the Peace,
and Assessor in said county, where said Omaha Indians have
taken part in the State and the County government extending
over the Reservation, and where the defendant is. self-supporting; is he liable to indictment and punishment under the
act of Congress of January 30, 1897 (29 Stat. 506), for intro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

ducing intoxicating liquor, as into an Indian country, where
he procured one-half gallon of whiskey at a point outside of
said reservation, on the first day of August, '1905, which he
took into and upon his allotment, within, the limits of the
Omaha Indian Reservation, which allotment he inherited and
which was made under the provisions of said act of August
1882, the fee title to which is held by the Governmeni, as the
twenty-five years' trust period has not expired, the .said
whiskey having been so taken upon his allotment for the purpose of drinking and using the same himself, which he drank,
giving some of it to his friends and visitors to drink?"
',

Mr. Thomas L. Sloan for Hallowell.
The Solicitor General for The United States.
MR. JUSTiCE HARLAN, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

In Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railway Co. v. Williams,
.205 U. S. 444, 454, we had occasion to consider the scope and
meaning of the sixth section of -the Judiciary Act of March 3,
1891, authorizing a Circuit Court of Appeals, in every case
within its jurisdiction, to certify questions or propositions of
law concerning which it desires instruction for the proper
decision of the case. 'The court there reaffirmed the rule, announced in previous cases, that the authority to certify such
questions could not be used for the purpose of sending to this
court the whole case, with all its circumstances, for consideration and decision. Jewell v. McKnight, 123 U..'S. 426; Waterville v. Van Slyke, 116 U. S. 699; United States v. Rider, 163
U. S. 132; United States v. Union,Pacific Railway, 168 U. S.
505. Upon a review of the adjudged cases we used this language in reference to the certificate of questions in that case:
"The present certificate brings to us a question of mixed law
and fact and, substantially, all the circumstances connected

HALLOWELL v. UNITED STATES.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

with the issue to be determined. It does not present a distinct point of law, clearly stated, which can be decided without passing-upon the weight or effect of all the evidence out
of which the question arises. The question certified is rather
a condefised, argumentative narrative of the facts upon which,
in the opinion of the judges of the 'Circuit Court of Appeals,
depends the validity of the live-stock contract in suit. Thus,
practically, the whole case is brought here by the certified
question, and we are, in effect, asked to indicate what, under
all the facts stated, should. be the final judgment. It is, obviously, as if the court had been asked, generally, upon a statement of all the facts, to determine what, upon those facts, is
the law of the case." 205 U. S. 444, 454.
The certificate in the present case is objectionable upon the
ground that it does not set forth propositions of law, clearly
stated, which may be answered without reference to all the
facts, but mixed questions of law and fact which require us
to construe various acts of Congress, and, in the light of all
the testimony in the case, determine whether the accused
could be held guilty of any offense legally punishable by the
United States. It is as if the court were asked what, upon the
whole case as sent up, should have been the verdict and judgment in the trial court. The certificate is defective and must
be dismissed, because not in conformity to the statute.
It is so ordered:

