UNITED STATES v. THAYER.
209 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Finally an exception was taken to an interruption of the
judge, asking the defendant's counsel to make an argument
that did not tend to degrade the administration of justice.
The reference was to an appeal to race prejudice and to such
language as this: "You will believe a white man not on his oath
before you will a negro who is sworn. You can swallow those
niggers if you want to, but John Randolph Cooper will never
swallow them." The interruption was fully justified.-The
foregoing are the exceptions argued. In our opinion there is
nothing in them or in any that were taken. The judgment of
the Circuit Court must stand.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. THAYER.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 390.

Argued February 25, 1908.-Decided March 9, 1908.

A man may sometimes be punished in person where he has brought consequences to pass, although he was not there in person. In re Palliser, 136
U. S. 257.
A solicitation of funds for campaign purposes made by letter in violation
of § 12 of the Civil Service Act of January 16, 1883,'c. 27, 22 Stat. 403,
is not complete until the letter is delivered to the person from whom the
contribution is solicited, and if the letter is received by one within a
building or room described in § 12 of the act the solicitation is in that
place and the sender of the letter commits the prohibited offense in the
prohibited place.
154 Fed. Rep. 508, reversed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

The Attorney General and Mr. Assistant Attorney General
Cooley for plaintiff in error:
The act of mailing the letter soliciting a contribution for

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

209 U. S.

political purposes, was, under the circumstances of this case,
one which Congress intended to prohibit, and the court will
place such reasonable construction on the statute of Congress
as tends to give effect to that intention. United States v.
Lacher, 134 U. S. 624, 628; Johnson v. United States, 196
U.S. 1.
The act of mailing the letter is also within the letter of the
statute. There is nothing in § 12 making the physical presence
of the person soliciting within the Federal building an essential
element of the offense. The act of soliciting was completed
when the letter was received and read by the person to whom
it was addressed and to whose mind the demand for money
therein contained was addressed. Wharton, Conflict of Laws,
§§ 825, 826; Hobart's Rep. (1st Am. ed.) p. 152; Clutterbuck
v. Chaffers, 1 Starkie, 471; The King v. Burdett, 4 B. & A. 95;
The King v. Johnston, 7 East, 65, 68; In re Palliser, 136
U. S. 257, and cases cited; Homer v. United States, 143 U. S.
207, 214; Burton v. United States, 202 U. S. 344; People v.
Rathbun, 21 Wend. 509, 529; Simpson v. State, 92 Georgia,
41, 43; People v. Adams, 3 Denio, 190, 207; State v. Grady, 34
Connecticut, 118, 130.
The general effect of these numerous decisions is that the
offense is committed at the place where the unlawful act takes
effect. If, as seems clear, Congress intended to prohibit the
demand of political assessments in Federal buildings, it is a
matter of no consequence whether the defendant in making
his demands for contributions to the Republican campaign
fund was actually in the building or not. He willfully and
knowingly set in motion an agency which resulted in a demand on a Government officer in a Government building, and
on well-settled principles it must be held that he committed
the offense on forbidden ground.
Mr. J., M. McCormick, with whom Mr. F. M. Etheridge was
on the brief, for defendant in error:
The legislative history of the act of Congress in question

UNITED STATES v. THAYER.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

herein, shows that it was not the intention to prohibit the
writing by a private citizen of a letter soliciting a political
contribution, which is by him enveloped, stamped, addressed
and deposited in the United States mail with an intent that
the addressee shall read the same in a public building. Cong.
Rec., vol. 14, 650, 866.
The intent of Congress in enacting § 12 is the law. And
before a violation thereof can arise, there must be acts contravening this intent, which are so clearly forbidden by it as
to charge notice to the citizen that they are unlawful. The
section under discussion creates a crime theretofore unknown
to the law. Laws which create crime ought to be so explicit
that all men subject to their penalties may know what acts
it is their, duty to avoid. United States v. Sharp, Pet. C. C.
118; United States v. Brewer, 139 U. S. 288. See also United
States v. Wiltberger, 5 Wheat. 76; United States v. Morris, 14
Pet. 464; American Fur. Co. v. United States, 2 Pet. 358, 367;
United States v. Winn, 3 Sumner, 209, 211.
The words of § 12, taken in connection with the other sections bf the law and the statutes in pari materia are not so
precise and clear as to compel the construction contended for
by the Government whichwould lead to an absurd consequence.
Commonwealth v. Kimball, 24 Pick. 371.
If the physical. presence of the defendant, or his agent or
servant in the building at the time the letters containing the
solicitations respectively were read, was necessary, then the
Government's case falls for the reason that the postal employ6s are in law deemed the agents of the addressee, and not
of the sender of a letter. Commonwealth v. Wood, 142 Massachusetts, 462, and see also Regina v. Jones, 4 Cox C. C. 198.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an indictment for soliciting a contribution of money
for political purposes from an employ6 of the United States
in a post office building of the United States occupied by thc

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

employ in the discharge of his duties. By the Civil Service
Act of January 16, 1883, c. 27, § 12, 22 Stat. 403, 407, "No
person shall, in any room or building occupied in the discharge
of official duties by any officer or employ6 of the United States
mentioned in this act, or in any navy-yard, fort, or arsenal,
solicit in any manner whatever, or receive any contribution
of money or any other thing of any value for any political
purpose whatever." By § 15 a penalty is imposed of fine, imprisonment, or both. The indictment is in eleven counts, and
'charges the sending of letters to employds, which were intended to be received and read by them in the building and
were so received and read by them in fact. It is admitted that
the defendant was not in the building. There was a demurrer,
which was sustained by the District Court on the ground that
the case was not within the act. 154 Fed. Rep. 508. The only
question argued or intended to be raised is whether the defendant's physical presence in the building wa necessary to
create the offense.
Of course it is possible to solicit by letter as well as in person. It is equally clear that the person who writes the letter
and intentionally puts it in the way of delivery solicits, whether
the delivery is accomplished by agents of the writer, by agents
of the person addressed, or by independent middlemen, if it
takes place in the intended way. It appears to us no more
open to doubt that the statute prohibits solicitation by written as well as by spoken words. It forbids all persons to solicit
"in any manner, whatever." The purpose is wider than that
of a notice prohibiting book peddling in a building. It is not,
even primarily, to save employ6s from interruption or annoyance in their business. It is to check a political abuse, which
is not different in kind, whether practiced by letter or by
word of mouth. The limits of the act, presumably, were due
to what was considered the reasonable and possibly the constitutional freedom of citizens, whether officeholders or not,
when in private life, and it may be conjectured that it was
upon this ground that an amendment of broader scope was

UNITED STATES v. THAYER.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

rejected. If the writer of the letter i person had handed it
to the' man addressed, in the building without a w6rd, and the
latter had read it then and there, we suppose that no one
would deny that the writer fell within the statute. We can
see no distinction between personally delivering the letter
and sending it by a, servant of the writer. If the solicitation
is in the building the statute does not require personal presence,
so that the question is narrowed to whether the solicitation
alleged took place in the building or outside.
The solicitation was made at some time, somewhere. The
time determines the place. It was not_ complete when the
letter was dropped into the post. If the letter had miscarried
or had been burned, the defendant would not have accomplished a solicitation. The court below was misled by cases
in which, upon an indictment for obtaining money by false
pretenses, the crime was held to have been committed at the
place where drafts were put into the post by the defrauded
person. Commonwealth v. Wood, 142 Massachusetts, 459, 462;
Regina v. Jones, 4 Cox C. C. 198. But these stand on the
analogy of the acceptance by mail of an offer, and throw no
light. A relation already existed between the parties, and it
is because of that relation that posting the letter made the
transaction complete. See Brauer v. Shaw, 168 Massachusetts,
198, 200. -Here a relation was to be established, just as there
is. at the first stage of a contract when an Offer is to b6 made.
Whether or iot, as Mr. Langdell thinks, nothing less than
bringing the offer to the actual consciousness of the person
addressed would do, Contr. § 151, certainly putting a letter
into a post office is neither an offer nor a solicitation. "An
offer is nothing until it is communicated to the party to whom
it is made." Thomson v. James, 18 Ct. of Sess. Cas. (2d Series),
1, 10, 15. Therefore, we repeat, until after the letter had entered the building the offense was not complete, but, when it
had been read, the case was not affected by the nature of the
intended means by which it was put into the hands of the
person addressed. Neither can.the case be affected'by specu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

lations as to what the position Would have been if the receiver
had put the letter in his pocket and. had read it later at home.
Offenses usually depend for their completion upon events that
are not wholly within the offender's control' and that may
turn out in different ways.
No difficulty is raised by the coupling of. solicitation and
receipt in the statute. If receipt required personal presence,
it still would be obvious that solicit in any manner whatever"
was a broader term. But the cases that have been relied upon
to establish that the solicitation did not happen in the building, although inadequate for that, do sufficiently show that
the money might be received there without the personal
presence of the defendant. If, in answer to the defendant's
letter, the parties addressed had posted money to him in the
building where they were employed, the money undoubtedly
would have been received there. To sum up, the defendant
solicited money for campaign purposes, he did not solicit un'til
his. letter actually was received in the building, he did solicit
,when it was received and read there, and the solicitation was
in the place where the eitter was received. We observe that
this is the opinion expressed by the Civil Service Commission
in a note upon this section, and the principle of our decision
is similar to' that recognized in several- cases in this court.
In re Palliser, 136 U. S. 257, 266; Hornergv. United States, 143
U. S. 207, 214; Burton v. United States, 202 U.-S. 344, 387,

et seq: We do not cite th.em more at length, as the only dis-.
pute possible is on' the meaning of thb particular words that
Congress has used.
We may add that this case does not raise the questions
presented by an act done in one jurisdiction and producing
effects in another which threatens the actor with punishment
if it can catch him. Decisions in that class of cases, however,
illustrate the indisputable general proposition that a man
sometimes may be punished where he has -brought eonsequences to pass, although he was not there in person. They.
are. cited, in -In re Palliser, supra. Here the defendant was

O'REILLY
209 U S.

DE

CAMARA v. BROOKE.
Syllabus.

within and subject to the jurisdiction of the United States
to the extent of its constitutional power, and the power is not
in dispute. Ex parte Curtis, 106 U. S. 371; United States v.
Newton, 9 Mackey (D. C.), 226.
Judgment reversed.

MARIA FRANCISCA O'REILLY DE CAMARA, COUNTESS
OF BUENA VISTA, v. BROOKE, MAJOR GENERAL,
U.S.A.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.No. 104. Argued February 28, March 2, 1908.-Decided March 16, 1908.
A tort can be ratified so as to make an act done in the course of the princi-*
pal's business and purporting to be done in his name, his tort; and the
rule of exonerating the servant when the master assumes liability is still
applicable to a greater or less extent when the master is the sovereign.
The Paquette Habana, 189 U. S. 453, 469.
By virtue of an order of the Secretary of War and also by the Platt amendment of the act of March 2, 1901, c. 803, 31 Stat. 897,'and the treaty
with Cuba of May 22, 1903, 33 Stat. 2249, the acts of the officers of the
United States, during the military occupation of Cuba, complained of
in this action, were ratified by the United States, and those officers relieved of liability therefor.
The courts will not declare an act to be a tort in violation of the law of
nations or of a treaty of the United States when the Executive, Congress
and the treaty-making power have all adopted it.
The holder of a heritable office in Cuba which had been abolished prior to
the extinction of Spanish sovereignty, but who, pending compensation
for its condemnation, was receiving the -emoluments of one of the grants
of the office, held in this case to have no property rights that survived
the extinction of such sovereignty.
142 Fed. Rep. 858, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Frederic R. Coudert, with whom Mr. Paul Fuller, Mr.

