DOTSON v. MILLIKEN.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

DOTSON v. MILLIKEN.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 48. Argued March 4, 5, 1908.-Decided March 23, 1908.

A broker employed to sell land subject to a requirement of the purchaser
which the vendor declares will be complied with is entitled to his commissions if the sale falls through solely because the vendor's representations are inaccurate.
The fact that the particular portion of a tract of land for which a broker
finds a purchaser in accordance with the vendor's offer cannot be
identified does not defeat the broker's claim for commissions if the sale
falls-through entirely for other reasons for which the vendor was exclusively responsible.
27 App. D. C. 500, affirmed.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. R. Burnham Moffat and Mr. A. S. Worthington, for
plaintiff in error.
-Mr. J. J. Darlingtonfor defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action for a commission of $2.50 an acre on 10,000
acres of coal land belonging to the defendant, the plaintiff in
error, for which, although not sold, the defendant in error, the
plaintiff, says that he furnished a purchaser, satisfying the
terms of the understanding on which he was employed. The
errors alleged and now insisted upon are the giving of an instruction requested by the plaintiff and refusing one asked by
the defendant. To explain them it will be necessary to give a
summary of the evidence, or part of it.
Relations between the parties were opened by a letter from
the defendant, written on April 24, 1902, at the request of a

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

friend of the plaintiff's, enclosing circulars concerning 124,000
acres of coal land in Kentucky. The letter said: "We have
arranged with R. R. Companies to build a branch into it and
develop the lands," and the circulars also stated that the
owners had an understanding with the railroads near the land,
by which they were to build a branch into the land as soon as
the owners were ready to open up mines, etc., with more of the
same sort. On April 30 the parties met and the plaintiff,
Milliken, told the defendant, Dotson, that he knew the land,
and, as was the truth, that the important thing was about the
railroad, whether there was any way to get the property to
market. Dotson replied that he had an arrangement with
Spencer, President of the Southern Railway, to build a road in
there at once, that at that time they had their surveyors in
there and were locating a line of road, etc. Thereupon it was
arranged that Dotson would give $2.50 an acre for every acre
Milliken could sell at $20, and that Milliken was to go to work
for a purchaser, which Milliken accordingly did.
After a letter on May 2, giving an account of a first interview
and an answer dwelling on the great increase of value that would
come from the building of railroads at once through the property, Milliken wrote on May 7, saying that he was writing to
the two roads to know if they would "build the road in there,
as soon as we are ready to begin the development of the property," and that the prospective purchasers "want to know
positively about the railroad being built in there, if they go
into it." The plaintiff seems to have written as his letter stated,
but he testified that an assurance from Dotson would have
been satisfactory and was satisfactory when it came. On
May 8, to meet the purchasers' doubts, he telegraphed to Dotson: "See Spencer and write me to-night how much development he will require before building road into property," etc.
On the same day Dotson replied: "I have already discussed
fully with Mr. Spencer the point

...

and am glad to

say that Mr. Spencer is willing to build the road into the property without placing any requirements on the property holders

DOTSON v. MILLIKEN.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to put in certain sizid plants, or any number of coke ovens,"
with further details. This seemed at the time to satisfy the
purchasers. On May 12 Milliken wrote to Dotson that if his
coal would make as good coke as the Stonega coal and the
Southern would build a branch line into the property, the parties would put their capital in; that it was for Dotson to "substantiate these two points, which I believe you will do;" that
lie had a letter from Mr. H. Smith, the President of the Louisville and Nashville, declining to build a branch line, but that
if Dotson had Spencer safely committed to him they did not
care for Smith's road. On the same day Dotson wrote to Spencer, asking for a letter to show, which Spencer answered the
next day, declining until he had more definite knowledge and
obligation as to improvement, and professing to repeat what
he had said, viz., that if the property of the amount previously
named should be put into such shape as to warrant the construction of a railroad they would take up and consider favorably a plan. This is thought by the plaintiff to contradict the
statements that Dotson had made to him. Spencer testified
that there never was any agreement, or more than what just
has been stated from his letter, and Dotson's answer, written
May 16, confirms the testimony by the absence of any tone of
surprise.
Dotson testified that he showed Spencer's letter to Milliken.
Milliken testified the contrary, and his case was that, having
no notice of the correspondence, he was going ahead under
Dotson's letter of May 8. On May 29'Dotson wrote as to samples of coal, adding that he understood the Southern Railway
Company had secured their right of way with one or two exceptions, but that he hoped Spencer would call his men out and
keep them out "until we get our tracts rounded up." On
June 9 Milliken wrote to Dotson, communicating a very favorable report on his coal, and saying: "I may wire you by the
time this letter reaches you to come up here to close the deal
[for 5,000 acres]. They asked me in particular this afternoon
how soon the railroad could be built into this land from Middles-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

boro." He added that Easter, one of the purchasers, asked if
he could go and have a talk with-Spencer on the subject, with
Dotson, and that Milliken answered yes., On June 12 Dotson
answered that as Mr. Spencer's plans were fixed, Spencer would
not hesitate to say to Mr. Easter that they would build the road
into that section at once, and urged prompt action. In another
letter, of July 8, he said: "After we completed arrangements
with the R. R. Company for the development of the property,
we advanced price to $20 per acre." On July 24 an option on
"ten thousand acres of land in Harlan County, Ky.," at $20
per acre for sixty days, was given to Easter in consideration of
his forthwith sending an engineer to examine and report on the
same, and on August 25 Milliken wrote to Dotson that Easter's
party had, decided to take the 10,000 acres on condition that
Mr. Spencer would assure them as to the building of the railroad to Harlan court house, that they had written to Spencer,
and if his answer confirmed Dotson's representations they
would close the purchase. If it did not, they did not want
the land at any price. There was an interview, it seems, on
September 5, at which Easter asked Dotson to get a letter from
Spencer, but Dotson said that Easter was the proper party,
and that they would have to offer some inducements to get such
an assurance, but he thought that if Easter would let Spencer
know what he was willing to do, Spencer would not object.
Thereupon there was some correspondence, it turned out that
the Railroad company would not build, and the transaction
fell through.
The foregoing letters show that the plaintiff was employed
and went to work. He spent a good deal of time and money
in his efforts, as the defendant knew. There is no reasonable
doubt as to the rate at which he was to be paid, and the substantial question is what he had to do to entitle himself to his
compensation. The bargain made may have been improvident
and may have been different from that which the defendant
would-have made if he had taken all the chances into account.
But the general question is what, the jury was warranted in

DOTSON v. MILLIKEN.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

finding to have been made in fact. It was recognized that what
the railroads would do was decisive, and it was to be expected
that parties thinking of a purchase would require an assurance
from them, or something more definite than what the defendant
had said. The plaintiff was to go to work at once, and the jury
well might find that he was not understood to take the risk of
what the railroads might do. The question is between the
broker and seller, not between the purchaser and seller. The
seller was willing and meant that the broker should accept his
confidence as well founded, although he must have known that
the purchaser would or might ask more. The correspondence
indicates very strongly that Milliken really relied upon Dotson's statement that an agreement had been made. So, again,
it might be found that Dotson was willing to take his chances
as to the specification of the ten thousand acres in the larger
tract at the defendant's command. The option that satisfied
him and his purchasers was enough, if accepted, to entitle the
plaintiff to his pay. The jury was warranted in finding that
the plaintiff was employed at the rate named to make a bargain
for land to be identified later and subject to requirement of
the purchaser that the railroads or one of them would agree to
build a road into the land.
The ruling reqiiested for the plaintiff was as follows:"If the jury believe from the evidence that the defendant,
on or about the 30th day of April, 1902, represented to the
plaintiff that he, the defendant, was desirous of securing a
purchaser for either the whole or any considerable quantity of
the Harlan County coal lands at the price of $20.00 per acre,
that he had obtained from the Southern Railway Company its
consent or agreement to construct a branch railroad into the
said coal lands, and that he would pay to the plaintiff the sum
of $2.50 for each and every acre for which he should find a
purchaser at and for the price of $20.00 per acre, and that
shortly thereafter, namely, on or about the 8th day of May,
1902, he further represented to the plaintiff that the Southern
Railway Company was willing to build the said railroad into
VOL. ccix-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

the said property without placing any requirements on the
purchasers or holders of the said lands to put in any certain size
of plants or number of coke ovens, aid that the plaintiff, relying
upon the said representations of the defendant, expended time
and effort in the attempt to find a purchaser, and did find a
purchaser able, ready and willing to purchase ten thousand
acres of the said lands at the said price provided the defendant's
said representations were correct, and that the said sale failed
because of the inaccuracy of the defendant's represeritations
that the said Railway Company had so consented or agreed
to construct a branch railroad into the said coal lands, then
the plaintiff is entitled to recover the said stipulated sum of
$2.50.per acre on the ten thousand acres, or $25,000 in all."
This was given, and the defendant took a general exception.
It is objected to this ruling that the jury was not required to
find' and could not have found that any particular land was
agreed upon. But it at least would have been warranted in
finding that the .plaintiff had done in this respect all that his
bargain required him to do. The agreement failed for a wholly
different reason, and no difficulty in completing the sale arose
on that ground. We are of opinion that the objection is entitled to no consideration, especially upon a mere general exception and upon a point not taken in the trial court. McDermott v. Severe, 202 U. S. 600, 611. - A second objection taken is
that the condition of the consent to purchase was misstated;
that the condition was not that the defendant's representation
was correct, but that the railroad should agree to build. But
this is evidently a point that should have been called*to the
attention of the court. We cannot doubt that, the'plaintiff's
counsel and the judge meant to state what the letters showed
to have happened, ahd would have stated it more exactly if the
inaccuracy had been: pointed out. Probably in speaking of the
defendant's. representations proving correct, statements of past
facts were-less referred to than those sounding in warranted
prophecy. But the instruction was justified as it stood. If
the defendant had had such an agreement as at one time he

DOTSON v. MILLIKEN.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

gave the plaintiff to understand, no doubt the purciaser would
have been content and the sale would have been made.
One or two subordinate objections need only a word. It is
said that the instructions did not require the jury to find that
the owner and purchaser had agreed on terms. But this is
best answered by reading the instruction. What is meant is
that on the evidence there were possible points of disagreement
open. This may ormay not be true. But-a finding that the
parties had agreed was warranted- and was presupposed in the
request. So as to the- ability of the purchaser. No question
ever was raised about it; the defendant was satisfied with it,
and it is questioned here only as a technical means of getting
a large and doubtful verdict set aside. It is urged, faintheartedly, that a binding agreement was necessary before a
commission was earned. This is not the prevailing view, and
could not be the law in a case like this, where the jury must
have found the defendant liable on a contract with the broker
that might be performed before an absolute agreement with
the purchaser should be reached.
The ruling requested for the defendant was as follows:
"If the jury believe from the evidence that any bona fide
purchaser was actually found by the plaintiff for 10,000 acres
of said land as claimed in the declaration, upon the representations of said plaintiff to said purchaser as to the existence of
a certain agreement between the defendant and the Southern
Railway Company concerning the construction of a branch
railroad into said lands and the purchaser did not rely on the
said statements and representations of said plaintiff, but with
the knowledge or codperation of said plaintiff and at his suggetion sought and undertook to verify the truth of such
statements and representations during the pendency of the
negotiations for the purchase of said land before any transaction was closed for the purchase thereof, and that said purchaser had the opportunity of investigating, ascertaining and
verifying the truthfulness of such statements and representstions, and took advantage of that opportunity by interviews,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

conferences or written communications, either personally or
by attorney, or by others, with the president and first vicepresident of the Southern Railway Company, for the purpose
of verifying the said statements and representations so made
by the plaintiff as to any agreement existing between the
defendant and Southern Railway Company in regard to the
construction of the said branch railroad, and ascertained from
the said officers. of the said Railway Company, from time to
time during said negotiations and before September 15, 1902,
the date upon which it is alleged in the declaration that said
purchaser was found, that no agreement existed between the
defendant and said Southern Railway Company to build said
branch railroad, but that the subject of building such branch
railroad had only been discussed, and that the building thereof
depended on the development and improvements to be placed
on said land prior to the construction of any railroad, in the
way of opening coal mines, establishing coke ovens, or furnishing the railroad with a sufficient amount of tonnage, and that
said plaintiff and alleged purchaser had full knowledge and information from the proper officers of the Southern Railway
Company of all the facts relating to the conditions upon which
said branch railroad would be constructed and of the nonexistence of any agreement between the defendant and Southern Railway as alleged, then the defendant is not responsible
for the non-appearance of the alleged sale or purchase of the
land between the plaintiff and the alleged purchaser, and you
should find for the defendant."
As to this request we must repeat that it does not matter
how much or how little the purchaser relied upon the defendant's representations if the plaintiff relied upon them and
obtained a purchaser ready and able to purchase upon the basis
that the defendant's representations to the plaintiff were true.
That the plaintiff did rely upon them until the time when, on
August 25, he announced Easter's readiness to purchase, hardly
is open to dispute. But the judge told the jury that if the plaintiff- at the beginning had made inquiries of the railroad and

DOTSON v. MILLIKEN.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

found that it would not build, he could not complain. The
judge called attention to the failure to specify any time at which
the plaintiff began to inquire, and said what we understand to
mean that the prayers were based on the theory that if, after
the purchaser was ready to complete the sale and the question
as to the railroad alone prevented it, the purchaser made an
attempt to induce the railroad to build,-and so discovered the
truth, and thereupon refused to go on, the plaintiff could not
recover. At all events, he said enough to warn the defendant
to make some necessary amendments. He gave as his reason
for refusing the instructions asked that they did not undertake
to refer to any time prior to the consummation of the sale.
The request assumed that no agreement had been reached until
September 15, on evidence which it has not been necessary to
state. But the plaintiff's argument was that he had earned
his commission on August 25, and there was evidence on which
his conclusion might be sustained. On the instructions given
we have no doubt that the jury understood the true conditions
of the plaintiff's case. They were told in terms that if the
plaintiff was to recover they must find that the plaintiff did
his work and found a purchaser, relying on the defendant's
representations, if he made them, and that the purchase failed
because they were inaccurate and the railroad had not agreed
to build.
Judgment affirmed.

