OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Syllabus.

209 U. S.

in equity the findings will not be disturbed by this court,
unless they are shown to be clearly erroneous. Towson v.
Moore, 173 U. S. 17; Brainardv.Buck, 184 U. S. 99; Shappirio
v. Goldberg, 192 U. S. 232. An examination of the voluminous
testimony shows that it. tended to sustain the findings, and
that, to say the least, there is no ground for saying that the
conclusions drawn from the evidence were clearly erroneous.
Accepting as true the facts found, we think the discretion
of the court was wisely exercised in refusing an injunction and
remitting the appellants to a court of law to recover such damage as they might there prove that they had sustained. The
reasous for this conclusion are tersely stated in the opinion of
the Court of Appeals, which we have quoted, and we approv&
them.
Judgment affirmed.

VENNER v. GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 485.

Submitted January 20, 1908.-Decided February 24, 1908.

Where the question of jurisdiction is certified to this court under § 5 of the
judiciary act of 1891, nothing but that question can be considered here.
In this case the question is considered both as to parties and subject-mat-

ter.
A cause is removable to the Circuit Court if it is one of which the court
is given jurisdiction.
While the court, in determining whether diverse citizenship exists, may
disregard the pleader's arrangement of parties and align them according
to actual interest, if the plaintiff's controversy is actually with all the
parties named as defendants, all of whom are necessary parties, none of
them can for jurisdictional purposes be regarded otherwise than as defendants; and so held, in an action against a corporation and others by
one of the stockholders, that where the complaint alleges joint fraudulent
conduct on the part of the corporation and the other defendants with
whom it jointly resists that uharge, the corporation cannot be realigned
as a party plaintiff even if it might be to its financial interest to have the
plaintiff prevail. Doctor v. Harrington,196 U. S.579.

VENNER v. GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY.
209 U. S.

25

Argument for Appellant.

The right'to bring a suit is distinguishable from the right to prosecute the
particular bill; and,. where the other jurisdictional essentials exist, the
Circuit Court has jurisdiction of'an action against a corporation by one
of its stockholders although the bill does not comply with Equity Rule 94
and for that reason must be dismissed.
The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court Is prescribed by laws enacted by Congress in pursuance of the Constitution and while this court may, by rules
not, inconsistent with law, regulate the manner in which that jurisdiction
shall be exercised, that jurisdiction cannot by such rules be enlarged or
diminished.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Abram J. Rose, Mr. George H. Yeaman, Mr. Alfred C.
Petl& and Mr. Stephen M. Yeaman for appellant:
The Circuit Court should have aligned the Great Northern
Railway with the plaintiff which would defeat jurisdiction.
The question of jurisdiction is directly raised in and appears by the record..
The action is the common one in equity by a stockholder
of a corporation suing on behalf of himself and of other stockholders to recover for a wrong alleged to have been done to
the corporation by its officers dealing on its behalf to their
own personal profit and advantage and to the waste and injury of the €orporation, its funds and estate.
The original complaint in the state court stated a good cause
of action as was conceded by the circuit.judge in the opinion
sustaining the demurrers which cited Young v: Drake, 8 Hun,
61, 64; Frothinghamv. Broadway &c. Ry. Co., 9 Civ. Pro. 304,
314; O'Connor v. Va. P. P. Co., 46 Misc. 530, 535; Frickett v.
Murphy, 46 App. Div. 180, 186; Sayles v. CentralBank of Rome,
18 Misc. 155, 158; Hanna v. Lyon, 179 N. Y. 107. See also
Stewart v. Erie &c., 17 Minnesota, 372, 400, 401; Cook on
Corporations (5th ed.) 1882; Elkins v. Camden & At. R. R. Co.,
36 N. J. Eq. 514; Parsons v. Joseph, 92 Alabama, 403, 405;
Montgomery Light Co. v. Lahey, 121 Alabama, 131, 136.
Such being the nature of the action, the only possible ground
of Federal jurisdiction would be the diverse citizenship of the
parties, and unless the required diversity of citizenship is

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Appellant.

209 U. S.

shown to exist, the Circuit Court was wholly without jurisdiction.
The facts necessary to confer jurisdiction on a United States
court to entertain an action of the nature of the one at bar
when the diverse citizenship of the parties is the sole ground
of jurisdiction have been expressly laid down and defined in
Equity Rule 94:
The reasons which gave rise to the-promulgation of this rule
and the abuses which it was intended to prevent are well
known.
The direct object and purpose of that rule was to prevent the courts of the United States from being overburdened
with actions brought by stockholders of corporations, which,
except for the diverse citizenship of the stockholder appearing as complainant, would have to be brought in a state court,
of competent jurisdiction. Hawes v. Oakland, 104. U. S. 450;
Detroit v. Dean, 106 U. S. 537; City of Quincy v. Steele, 120
U. S. 241.
If the necessary jurisdictional facts required by Rule 94 do
not appear, the corporation will be aligned as the party plaintiff, and the question of jurisdiction determined as if the suit
had been originally brought by it and not by a stockholder in
its behalf. Elkins v. City of Chicago, 119 Fed. Rep. 957;
Kemmerer v. Haggerty, 139 Fed. Rep. 693; Dickinson v. Consolidated Traction Co., 114 Fed. Rep. 232; Waller v. Coler, 125
Fed. Rep. 821; Groel v. United Electric Co., 132 Fed. Rep. 252.
The allegations of the bill clearly- do not meet the requirements of Rule 94; either as to the plaintiff being a stockholder
at the time the cause of action arose, that he thereafter became a stockholder by devolution of law, or as to the suit not
being a collusive one to confer on a court of the United States
jurisdiction of a cause of which it would not otherwise have cognizance. In these respects, therefore, there is no compliance
with the rule and th6 case cannot be taken out of the application of the wholesome rule that for the purpose of determining jurisdiction on the ground of. diverse citizenship, the real

VENNER v. GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY.
209 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

party :n interest will be aligned on the part of the complainant. Brown v. Strode, 15 Cranch, 303; McNutt v. Bland, 2
How. 9; Maryland,use of Markley v. Paldwin, 112 U. S. 490;
Stewart v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 168 U. S. 445.
Rule 94. does not apply to actions removed from a state
court to -a Federal co urt. Earle v. Seattle &c. R. R. Co., 56
Fed. Rep. 909; Evans v. Un. Pac. Ry. Co., 58 Fed. Rep. 497.
See also City of Chicago v. Camerson, 22 Ill. App. 91, 102.
The Circuit Court had no original jurisdiction of the case
and could xot acquire jurisdiction by removal.
Since the acts of 1887 and 1888, it is very clear that the intent is to confine the right of removat to cases originally cognizable in the Circuit Courts of the United States. See Mexican National Ry. Co. v. Davidson, 157 U. S. 201, and this
differentiates this case from those cited in the opinion below,
in which were involved §§ 11 and 12 of the act of 1789.
The Circuit Court being wholly without jurisdiction should
have remanded the case to the state court. Detroit v. Dean,
106 U. S.537.
Mr. Julius F. Workum for appellees:
Inasmuch as this appeal is taken direct from the Circuit
Court to this court, and the question of the former court's
jurisdiction is certified up, this court can consider only whether
the Circuit Court as a Federal court had jurisdiction, and not
whether as a court of equity it should have sustained or overruled the demurrers.- Chicago v. Mills, 204 U. S. 321, 326;
Louisville Trust Co. v. Knott, 191 U. S.225, 233, 234; Hennessy
v. Richardson Drug Co., 189 U. S. 25, 33; Mexican Central
R. R. Co. v. Eckman, 187 U. S.429, 432; Blythe v. Hinckley,
173 U. S.501; United States v. Rider, 163 U. S.132, 139; Smith
v. McKay, 161 U. S.355; United States v. Jahn, 155 U. S.109,
113; Schunk v. Moline, 147 U. S.500, 507; McLish v. Roff,
14.1 U. S.661; Rosenbaum v. Bauer, 120 U. S.459.

The only question that is open for discussion, therefore, is
whether the case involves a controversy between citizens of

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

different States. As the parties are arranged the citizenship
of plaintiff is different from that of the defendants. The mere
fact that the defendant corporation might be benefited by
such a suit does not force its alignment with complainant, unless there is really no controversy between the complainant
and the railroad company. See Detroit v. Dean, 106 U. S.
537, and cases cited; and Dodge v. Woolsey, 18 How. 331;
Davenport v. Dows, 18 Wall. 626; Memphis v. Dean, 8 Wall.
64; Greenwood v. Freight Company, 105 U. S. 13; Quincy v.
Steel, 120 U. S.241.
Doctor v. Harrington, 196 U. S. 579, is conclusive of the
case at bar, for in that case, as in this, the complainant based
his right to maintain the action on the ground that the defendant corporation. is controlled by its co-defendant, who, it
is alleged, used the corporation for his own advantage. New
Jersey Central R. R. Co. v. Mills, 113 U. S. 249. See also
East Tenn. &c. R. R. Co. v. Grayson, 119 U. S.240; Chicago
v. Mills, 204 U. S. 321; Hawes v. Oakland, 104 U. S.450, 452.
Complainant cannot, under Equity Rule 94, maintain the
action; as a matter of fact he purchased his stock just before
bringing suit, long after the alleged acts of which he complained, and he could not, and did not, allege that he was a
stockholder at the time of their occurrence. This defect of
title did not, as appellant argues, create any Federal jurisdiclional question. Corbus v. Gold Mining Co., 187 U. S. 455;
Illinois Central R. R. Co. v. Adams, 180 U. S.28, 34, 35.
MR. JUSTICE MOODY delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error, a citizen of New York, brought this
suit in equity in the Supreme Court of New York against the
defendant railroad, a citizen of Minnesota, and the other defendant, its president, also a citizen of Minnesota. The complaint set forth in substance the following facts upon which
the right to relief was claimed: The plaintiff was a stockholder
in the defendant railroad at the time of the beginning of the

VENNER v. GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

suit in 1906. Whether or not he was a stockholder at the time
when the alleged wrongful acts were committed by the defendants does not appear by any allegation in the complaint. The
defendant James J. Hill was a director and the president of
the other defendant, the Great Northern Railway Company,
and that railroad and its board of directors were under his
absolute control. While holding these offices and exercising this
control, in 1900 and 1901, Hill purchased, or caused to be
purchased for his use, stock of the Chicago, Burlington and
Quincy Railroad Company of the par value of $25,000,000, at
an average price of one hundred and fifty dollars a share.
This purchase was made with the design of selling the stock
at a higher price to the company of which he was a director
and president. Subsequently, in 1901, while still holding his
offices in the Great Northern Railway and exercising the same
control over that corporation, he sold to it a large amount of
the stock of the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railroad
Company owned by him, and made an unlawful profit of
$10,000,000 on the transaction. Before bringing this suit the
plaintiff demanded of the Great Northern Railway Company
that it bring suit against Hill to compel him to account for
and pay over to it the wrongful profit which he had obtained.
The railroad refused to comply with this demand, and thereupon the plaintiff brought this suit as a stockholder in his
own behalf, and in the behalf and for the benefit of other
stockholders similarly situated. The prayer was that Hill
should account for his profit and pay it to the Great Northern
Railway Company with interest, and for general relief. On
the defendants' petition the case was removed to the United
States Circuit Court for the Southern District of New York,
on the ground of diversity of citizenship of the plaintiff and
the defendants. In that court the plaintiff was ordered to
"replead the complaint herein according to the forms and
practice prevailing in equity." This was done-on November 9,
1906. The new complaint set forth the facts in greater detail
and with some variations, but its substance and effect was

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

similar to that of the first complaint. The complaint did not
conform to the requirements of -Equity Rule 94, relating to
suits of this nature, in that it failed to allege that the plaintiff was a shareholder at the time of the transactions of which
he complains, or that his shares had devolved on him since by
operation of law, or that the suit was not collusive, or the
particulars of his efforts to procure action by the corporation
defendant. The defendants then demurred separately to the
bill and the defendant Hill subjoined to his demurrer an affidavit denying every allegation in it tending to show wrongful
conduct on his part. Thereafter the plaintiff moved to remand
the cause to the state court on the ground that the Circuit
Court was without jurisdiction over it. This motion was denied.
The demurrer was sustained and the bill dismissed. The correctness of the ruling on the demurrer and the dismissal is not
before us. The case comes here on direct appeal from the
Circuit Court on the question of jurisdiction alone, certified
in the following terms: "Now, 'therefore, the court hereby certifies to i e Supreme Court of the United States the question of
jurisdiction which has arisen upon the aforesaid motion: to remand and the demurrers to the complaint, to wit: Whether or
not the complainant's amended bill of complaint showed that
there was such diversity of citizenship between the party complainant and the parties defendant in this cause as would be
sufficient, under the provisions of the United States Revised
Statutes to confer jurisdiction upon the United States Circuit
Court for the Southern District of New York of this cause,
and whether this cause, as brought in the Supreme
Couit • of
the State of New York, was one over which this court would
have had original jurisdiction, and was therefore removable
into this court."
We consider nothing but the question of jurisdiction, and
express no opinion upon the decision upon the demurrer which
'is not properly here. Schunk v. Moline; Milburn & Stoddart
Co., 147 U. S. 600; Smith v. McKay, 161 U. S. 355; Mexican
,CentralRailway Co. v. Eckman, 187 U. S. 429; Hennessy v.

VENNER v. GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY.
209 U. S.

31

Opinln of the Court.

Richardson Drug Co., 189 U. S. 25; Chicago v. Mills, 204 U. S.
321.
The cause was removable to the Circuit Court by the defendants if it was one of which that court was given jurisdiction.
25 Stat. 434; Mexican National Railroad Company v. Davidson,
157 U. S. 201; Traction Company v. Mining Company, 196
U. S. 239. The only ground of original jurisdiction or of removal was that the suit was a controversy between citizens
of different States. In that case Cohgress has given the Circuit
Court jurisdiction over it, with certain limitations not material
here. 25 Stat. 434. The plaintiff contends that the Circuit
Court was without jurisdiction of the cause" and should therefore have remanded it to the state court, for two reasons.
First, because upon a proper alignment of the parties there was
not a controversy between citizens of different States. Second,
because the cause of action as disclosed by the pleadings
showed that the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction over the subject matter. These reasons are entirely independent of each
other and require separate consideration. First, Was there a
pcontroversy between citizens of different States? As the parties
were arranged by the plaintiff himself on the face of the record,
there was a diversity of citizenship., The plaintiff was a citizen
of New York and the two defendants were citizens of Minnesota.
But the plaintiff insists that by looking through the superficial
aspects of the controversy to its real substance it is seen that
the railway company's interest ils adverse' to that of the other
defendant, and the same s that of the plaintiff, and that
therefore, for the purpose of determining the jurisdiction, the
defendant railroad should be regarded as a plaintiff. If this
should be done there would be a citizen of Minnesota a plaintiff
and another citizen of Minnesota a defendant, and the diversity
of citizenship which is indispensable to the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court would no longer exist. Let it be assumed for the
purposes of this decision that the court may disregard the arrangement of parties made by the pleader, and align them upon
the side where their interest in and attitude to the controversy

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. a

really places them, and then may determine the jurisdictional
question in view of this alignment. Removal Cases, 100 U. S.
457; Pacific Railroad v. Ketchum, 101 U. S. 289; Harterv. Kernochan, 103 U. S. 562, 566; Wilson v..Oswego Township, 151
U. S. 56, 63; Merchants' Cotton Press Co. v. Insurance Company
of North America, 151 U. S. 368, 385; Evers v. Watson, 156
U. S. 527, 532. If this rule should be applied it would leave
the parties here where the pleader has arranged them. It
would doubtless be for the financial interests of the defendant
railroad that the plaintiff should prevail. But that is not
enough. Both defendants unite, as sufficiently appears by
the petition and other proceedings, in resisting the plaintiff's
claim of illegality and fraud. They are alleged to have engaged.
in the same illegal and fraudulent conduct, and the injury is
alleged to have been accomplished by their joint action. The
plaintiff's controversy is with both, and both are rightfully
and necessarily made defendants, and neither can, for jurisdictional purposes, be regarded otherwise than as a defendant,
Davenport v. Dows, 18 Wall. 626; The Central Railroad Company v. Mills, 113 U.US. 249; Railroad v. Grayson, 119 U. S.
240; Doctor v. Harrington,196 U. S. 579; Groel v. United Electric Co., 132 Fed. Rep. 252, and see Chicago v. Mills, 204-U. S.
321. The case of Doctor v. Harringtonis precisely in point on
this branch of the case, and is conclusive. In that case the
plaintiffs, stockholders in a corporation, brought an action in
the Circuit Court against the corporation and Harrington,
another stockholder, "who directed the management of the
affairs of the corporation, dictated its policy, and selected its
directors." It was alleged that Harrington fraudulently caused
the corporation to make its promissory note without consideration, obtained a judgment on the note, and sold, on execution,
for much less than their real value, the assets of the corporation to persons acting for his benefit. On the face of the pleadings there was the necessary diversity of citizenship, but it
was insisted that the corporation, because its interest was the
same as that of the plaintiff, should be regarded as a plaintiff.

VENNER v. GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The court below so aligned the corporation defendant, and, as
that destroyed the diversity of citizenship, dismissed the suit
for want of jurisdiction. This court reversed the decree, saying, p. 587: "The ultimate interest of the corporation made
defendant may be the same as that of the stockholder made
plaintiff, but the corporation may be under a control antagonistic, and made to act in a way detrimental to his rights. In
other words, his interests, and the interests of the corporation,
may be made subservient to some illegal purpose. If a controversy hence arise, and the other conditions of jurisdiction exist,
it can be litigated in a Federal court." There was therefore
in the case at bar the diversity of citizenship which confers
jurisdiction.
Second. Did the Circuit Court have jurisdiction of the subject matter of the litigation, It has already been shown that
the plaintiff in his petition did not bring this case within the
terms of Equity Rule 94, which is printed in the margin.' It
may be noted that the plaintiff in Doctor v. Harrington,supra
complied with the requirements of the rule. It is argued
that a compliance with that rule is essential to the jurisdiction,
and that a controversy of the general nature contemplated by
the rule is beyond the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, unless
the plaintiff shows-the existence of all the facts which the rule
makes indispensable to his success in the suit. But this argument overlooks the purpose and nature of the rule. The rule
simply expresses the principles which this court, after a review
of the authorities, had declared in Hawes .v. Oakland, 104 U. S.
1 Every bill brought by one or more stockholders in a corporation, against
the corporation and other parties, founded on rights which may be properly
asserted by the corporation, must be verified by oath, and must contain
an allegation that the plaintiff was a shareholder at the time of the transaction of which he complains, or that his share had devolved on him since
by operation of law; and that the suit is not a collusive one to,confer on a
court of the United States jurisdiction of a case of which it would not otherwise have cognizance. It must also set forth with particularity the efforts
of the plaintiff to secure such action as he desires on the part of the managing directors or trustees, and, if necessary, of the shareholders, and the
causes of his failure to obtain such action.

VOL. ccix-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

450, to be applicable in the decision of a stockholder's suit of
the kind now under consideration. Neither the rule nor the
decision from which it was derived deals with the question of
the jurisdiction of the courts, but only prescribes the manner
in which the jurisdiction shall be exercised. If a controversy
of this general nature is brought in the Circuit Court and the
necessary diversity of citizenship exists, but upon the pleadings
or the proof it.appears that the plaintiff has not shown a case
within the decision in Hawes v. Oakland, or the rule of court
declaratory of that decision, the bill should be dismissed for
want of equity and not for want of jurisdiction. The.dismissal
of the bill would not be the denial but the assertion and exercise
of jurisdiction. So it was that in Hawes v. Oakland the demurrer was sustained and the bill dismissed, not for want of
jurisdiction, but, in the words of the court (p. 462), "because
the appellant shows no standing in a court of equity-no right.
in himself to prosecute this suit." The same order was made
in Huntington v. Palmer, 104 U. S. 482, and Quincy v. Steel, 120
U. S. 241.. This very question was considered by the court in
Illinois Central Railroad Company v. Adams, 180 U. S. 28,
where it said, p. 34: "Jurisdiction is the right to put the wheels
of justice in motion and to proceed to the final determination
of a cause upon the pleadings and evidence. It exists in the
Circuit Courts of the United States under the express terms
of the act of August 13, 1888, if the plaintiff be a citizen of
one State, the defendant a citizen of another, if the amount in
controversy exceed $2,000, and the defendant be properly
served with process within the district. Excepting certain
quasi-jurisdictional facts, necessary to be averred in particular
cases and immaterial here, these are the only facts required to
vest jurisdiction of the controversy in the Circuit Courts. It'
may undoubtedly be shown in defense that plaintiff has no
right under the allegations of this bill or the facts of the case
to bring suit, but that is no defect of jurisdiction, but of title.
It is as much so as if it were sought to dismiss an action of
ejectment for want of jurisdiction, by showing that the plaintiff

VENNER v. GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

had no title to the land in controversy. At common law neither
.an infant, an insane person, married woman, alien enemy, nor
person having no interest in the cause of action, can maintain
a suit in his orher own name; but it never would be contended
that the court would not have jurisdiction to inquire whether
such disability in fact existed, nor that the case could be dismissed on motion for want of jurisdiction. The right to bring
a suit is entirely distinguishable from the right to prosecute
the particular bill. One goes to the maintenance of any action;
the other to the maintenance of the particular action. Thus it
was held in the case of Smith v. McKay, 161 U. S. 355, and
Blythe v. Hinckley, 173 U. S. 501, that it was not a question
of the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court that the action should
have been brought at law instead of in equity. The question
in each case is whether the plaintiff has brought himself within
the language of the jurisdictional -act, whatever be the form of
his action or whether it be in law or in equity. The objection
that plaintiff has failed to comply with Equity Rule 94 may be
raised by demurrer, but the admitted power to decide this question is also an admission that the court has jurisdiction of the
case." These observations may.not have been strictly necessary
to the disposition of the case, but they declare the true purpose
and effect of the rule. The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court is
prescribed by laws enacted by Congress in pursuance of the
Constitution and this court by its rules has no power to increase
or diminish the jurisdiction thus created, though it may regulate its exercise in any manner not inconsistent with the laws
6f the United States. Congress has given to the Circuit Courts
jurisdiction of all suits of a. civil nature (in which the matter
in dispute is of a certain value) where "there shall be a controversy between citizens of different States," language taken
from that part of the Constitution which defines the judicial
power. There was such a controversy in the case at bar, and
the Circuit Court had cognizance of it.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is
Affirmed.

