ASBELL v. KANSAS.
209 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

think that the auditor correctly adopted as the measure of
damages the value of the use of the property for the period
and season during which she was thus deprived of it as the direct
result of the restraining order which, in another proceeding,
has been found to have been Wrongfully and inequitably sued
out. The decree of the court below is
Affirmed.
ASBELL v. STATE OF KANSAS.'
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 166. Submitted March 6,1908.-Decided March 23, 1908.
While the State may not legislate for the direct control of interstate commerce, a proper police regulation which does not conflict with congressional legislation on the subject involved is not necessarily unconstitutional because it may have an indirect effect upon interstate commerce.
Until Congress acts on the subject a State may, in the exercise of its police
power, enact laws for the inspection of cattle coming from other States.

Reid v. Colorado, 187 U. S. 137.
Congress has not enacted any legislation destroying the .right of a State to
provide for the inspection of cattle and prohibiting the bringing within
its borders of diseased cattle not inspected and passed as healthy either
by the proper state or national officials.
A State may not under pretense of protecting the public health exclude the
products or. merchandise of other States, and this court will determine
for itself whether it is a genuine exercise of the police power or really and
substantially a regulation of interstate commerce.
Section 27 of Chap. 495 of the laws of Kansas of 1905, prohibiting the transportation of cattle from any point south of the State into the State except
for immediate slaughter which have not been passed as healthy by the
proper state officials or by the National bureau of Animal Industry is a
proper police regulation within the power of the State, is not in conflict
with tle act of February 2, 1903, 32 Stat. 791, or the act of March 3,1905,
33 Stat. 1204, in regard to inspection of cattle, and is not unconstitutional as a direct regulation of interstate commerce.
60 Kansas, 51, affirmed.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Archie D.. Neale and Mr. Nelson Case for plaintiff in error:
A statute which prohibits the bringing of cattle into the State

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

209 U. S.

without having them first inspected, regardless of whether such
cattle are infected or are pejfectly healthy, is not & proper
exercise of the police power.
This statute not only interferes with interstate commerce,
but also conflicts with the United States statute and the rules
and regulations of the Department of Agriculture. In cases of
this kind where Congress has legislated on the subject such legislation is exclusive on that subject.
The Secretary of Agriculture has the power and authority,
under the Federal statute, to promulgate rules and regulations
for the transportation of cattle, and he does so, but the State
of Kansas steps in and nullifies his orders by the passage of the
statute under consideration, or rather attempts to do so. A
statute attempting such a thing is unconstitutional and void.
Commodities which may lawfully become the subject of
purchase, sale or exchange are articles of interstate commerce,
within the protection of the commerce clause of the Constitution. Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100; Schollenberger v. Pennsylvania, 171 U. S. i, In re Ware, 53 Fed. Rep. 783; Donald v.
Scott, 74 Fed. Rep. 859; Sawrie y. Tennessee, 82 Fed. Rep. 615;
In re Schietlin, 94 Fed. Rep. 272; Bennett v. APierican Express
Co., 83 Maine, 236; Ballock v. State, 73 Maryland, 1; S. C., 23
Am. St. Rep. 559.
A State has not the power to prevent the importation of lawful subjects of commerce. Cases supra and Lyng v. Michigan,
135 U. S. 161; Hannibal &c. Ry. Co. v. Hvsen, 95 U. S. 465;
Bowman v. Chicago &c. Ry. Co., 125 U. S. 489.
In this case defendant brought the cattle in question from
the Indian Territory (now Oklahoma) into Kansas and proceeded with thein to the railroad and shipped them to Missouri.
He was engaged in interstate commerce, and was in possession
of a lawful subject of interstate comnierce. State v. Duckworth,
51 Pac. Rep. (Idaho) 456.
If the animals with which defendant was charged with bringing into the State were not diseased, they were lawful subjects
of commerce. It was not charged that they were diseased; the

ASBELL v. KANSAS.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

trial court charged the jury that it made no difference whether
they were or were not diseased, and the Supreme Court of
Kansas agreed with the trial court. Whether an article is or
is not a subject of lawful interstate commerce depends upon
the intrinsic state or condition of the article, and not upon a
mere declaration of a state legislature. In re Rahrer, 140 U. S.
545.

This statute being a regulation of commerce under the guise
of an inspection law, cannot be upheld, but must be condemned.
State of Minnesota v. Barber, 136 U. S. 313; Brimmer v. Rebman,
138 U. S. 78; Gulf. C. &. S. F. Ry. Co. v. Hefley & Lewis, 158
U. S. 99, 105.
Mr. E. L. Burton, Mr. C. E. Pile and Mr. W. B. Glasse for
defendant in error:
The regulation of the rights and duties of all persons within
the jurisdiction of a State belongs primarily to such State under
its reserved power to guard the safety of persons and property
within its borders, and even where the subject of such regulations is one over which Congress exerdiscs exclusive control,
any action of the State upon the subject which is not a direct'
interference with rights secured by the Constitution of the
United States or by some valid aet Of Congress must be respected until Congress intervenes.

Patapsco Guano Co. v.

Board of Agriculture of North Carolina, 171 U. S. 345; Minnesota
v. Barber, 136 U. S. 313; Al., K. & T. Ry. Co. v. Haber, 169 U. S.
613; Morgan's La. & Texas R. R. Co. v. Bd. of Health of La., 118
U. S. 455, and cases cited. See also Pattersonv. Kentucky, 97
U. S. 501; Kammish v. Ball, 129 U. S. 217, and cases cited.
MR.

JUSTICE

MOODY delivered the opinion of the court.

A statute of the State of Kansas makes it a misdemeanor,
punishable by fine or imprisonment, or both, for any prson to
transport into the State cattle from any point south of the south
line of the State, except for immediate slaughter, without hay-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

ing first caused them to be inspected and passed as healthy by
the proper state officials or by the Bureau of Animal Industry
of the Interior Department of the United States. Sec. 27, ch.
495, Session Laws of 1905. The plaintiff in error was duly
charged by information in the state court with a violation of
this statute, and found guilty by the verdict of a jury. The
conviction was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State, and
the case is now here on a writ of error, allowed by the chief
justice of that court. The only Federal question insisted upon
in argument is whether the statute was a restriction of interstate commerce which was not within the power of a State to
impose.
The obvious purpose of the law was to guard against the introduction into the State of cattle infected with a communicable disease. It undoubtedly restricts the absolute freedom
of interstate commerce in cattle, but only to the extent that all
cattle coming to cross the guarded boundary are subjected to
inspection to ascertain whether or not they are diseased. If
healthy they are admitted, if diseased they are excluded. The
validity of such a restriction for such purposes has been frequently considered by this court, and the principles applicable
to the settlement of the question have been clearly defined.
The governmental power over the commerce which is interstate
is vested exclusively in the Congress by the commerce clause
of the Constitution, and therefore is withdrawn from the States.
It is not now necessary to cite the many cases supporting this
proposition, or to consider some expressions in the books somewhat qualifying its generality, because in carefully chosen
words it has recently been affirmed by us. At this term, Mr.
Justice Pcckham, spcaking for the court, said: "That any exercise of state authority, in whatever form manifested, which
directly regulates interstate commerce, is repugnant to the
commerce clause of the Constitution is obvious." Atlantic
Coast Line v. Wharton, 207 U. S.328, 334.
But though it may not legislate for the direct control of interstate commerce, the State may exercise any part of the legis-

ASBELL v. KANSAS.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

lative power which was not withdrawn from it expressly or by
implication by the scheme of government put intp operation
by the Federal Constitution. It may sometimes happen that a
law passed in pursuance of the acknowledged power of the
State will have an indirect effect upon interstate commerce.
Such a law, though it is essential to its validity that authority
be found in a governmental power entirely distinct from the
power to regulate interstate commerce, may reach and indirectly control that subject. It was at an early day observed
by Chief Justice Marshall that legislation referable to entirely
different legislative powers might affect the same subject. He
said in Gibbon v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 194, 204:
"So, if a State, in passing laws on subjects acknowledged
to be within its control, and with a view to those subjects shall
adopt a measure of the same character with one which Congress
may adopt, it does not derive its authority from the particular
power which has been granted, but from some other, which
remains with the State, and may be executed by the same
me.ns. All experience shows, that the same measures, or
measures scarcely distinguishable from each other, may flow
from distinct powers; but this does not prove that the powers
themselves are identical. Although the means used in their
execution may sometimes approach each other so nearly as to
be confounded, there are other situations in which they are
sufficiently distinct to establish their individuality.
"In our complex system, presenting the rare and difficult
scheme of one general government, whose action extends over
the whole, but which possesses only certain enumerated powers;
and of numerous state governments, which retain and exercise
all powers not delegated to the Union, contests respecting power
must arise. Were it even otherwise, the measures taken by
the respective governments to execute their acknowledged
powers, would often be of the same description, and might,
sometimes, interfere. This, however, does not prove that the
one is exercising, or has a right to exercise, the powers of the
other."

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

Foreseeing cases where national and state legislation based
upon different powers might, in their application, be brought
into conflict, he, in the same case (p. 211), declared that then
"the law of the State, though enacted in the exercise of powers
not controverted, must yield," a rule which has constantly
been applied by this court. These general principles control
the decision of. the case at bar. Cattle, while in the course of
transportation from one State to another, and in that respect
under the exclusive control of the law of the National Government, may at the same time be the conveyance by which disease is brought within the State to which they are destined, and
in that respect subject to the power of the State exercised in
good faith to protect the health of its own animals and its own
people. In the execution of that power the State may enact
laws for the. inspection of animals coming from other States
with the purpose of excluding those which are diseased and
admitting those which are healthy. Reid v. Colorado, 187 U. S.
137.
The State may not, however, for this purpose exclude all
animals, whether diseased or not, coming from other States,
Railroad v. Husen, 95 U. S. 465, nor under the pretense of protecting the public health, employ inspection laws to exclude
from its borders the products or merchandise of other States;
and this court will assume the duty of determining for itself
whether the statute before it is a genuine exercise of an acknowledged state power, or whether, on the other hand, under the
guise of an inspection law it is really and substantially a regulation of foreign or interstate commerce which the Constitution
has conferred exclusively upon the Congress. Minnesota v.
Barber, 136 U. S. 313; Brimmer v. Rebman, 138 U. S. 78; Patapsco Guano Co. v. North Carolina,171 U. S. 345. Tested by these
principles, the statute before us is an inspection law and nothing
else, it excludes only cattle found to be diseased, and in the
absence of controlling legislation by Congress it is clearly within
the authority of the State, even though it may have an incidental and indirect effect upon commerce between the States.

ASBELL v. KANSAS.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The cause, however, cannot be disposed of without inquiring
whether there- was at the time of the offense any legislation of
Congress conflicting with the state law. If such legislation
were in existence the state law, so far as it affected interstate
commerce, would be compelled to yield to its superior authority.
This question was considered and the national legislation carefully examined in Reid v. Colorado, supra, and the conclusion
reached that Congress had not then taken any action which had
the effect of destroying the right of the State to act on the subject. It was there said, p. 148: "It did not undertake to invest
any officer or agent of the Department with authority to go into
a State, and, without its assent, take charge of the work of
suppressing or extirpating contagious, infectious or communicable diseases there prevailing, and which endangered the health
of domestic animals. Nor did Congress give the Department
authority, by its officers or agents, to inspect cattle within the
limits of a State and give a certificate that should be of superior
authority in that or other States, or which should entitle the
owner to carry his cattle into or through another State without
reference 'to the reasonable and valid regulations which the
latter State may have adopted for the protection of its own
domestic animals. It should never be held that Congress intends to supersede or by its legislation suspend the exercise of
the police powers of the States, even when it may do so, unless
its purpose to effect that result is clearly manifested." There
has, however, been later national legislation which needs to be
noticed. Large powers t6 control the interstate movement
of cattle liable to be afflicted with a communicable disease have
been conferred upon the Secretary of Agriculture by the act of
February 2, 1903, 32 Stat. 791, and the act of March 3, 1905,
33 Stat. 1204. The provisions of these acts need not be fully
stated. The only part of them which seems relevant to this
case and the question under consideration which arises in it is
contained in the law of 1903. In that law it is enacted that
when an inspector of the Bureau of Animal Industry has issued
a certificate that he has inspected cattle or live stock and found
VOL. COIX-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Syllabus.

209 U. S.

them free from infectious, contagious or communicable disease, "such animals so inspected and certified may be shipped,
driven, or transported . . . into . . . any State or
Terr.itory . . . without further inspection or the exaction

of fees of any kind, except such as may at any time be ordered
or exacted by the Secretary of Agriculture.," There can be
no doubt that this is the supreme law, and if the state law conflicts with it the state law must yield. But the law of Kansas
now before us recognizes the supremacy of the national law and
conforms to it. The state law admits cattle inspected and
certified by an inspector of the Bureau of Animal Industry of
the United States, thus avoiding a conflict with the national
law. Rule 13, issued by the Secretary of Agriculture under the
authority of the statute, is brought to our attention by the
plaintiff in error. It is enough to say now that the rule is
directed to transportation of cattle from quarantined States,
which is not this case, and that in terms it recognizes restrictions imposed by the State of destination. Our attention is
called to no other provision of national law which conflicts
with the state law before us, and we have discovered none.
Judgment affirmed.

THOMAS v. STATE OF IOWA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.'
No. 533. "Aigued February 26, 1908.-Decided March 23, 1908.
In order to give this court jurisdiction under .ยง709, Rev. Stat., to review
the judgment of a state court, the Federal question must. be distinctly
raised in the state court, and a mere claim, which amounts to no more
than a vague and inferential suggestion that a right under the Constitution of the United States had been denied, is not sufficient-and so held
as to an exception taken as to certain parts of the charge to the jury
because in effect they deprived the accused of his liberty without duo
process of law.

