BEADLES v. SMYSER.
209-U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

BEADLES v. SMYSER, MAYOR OF THE CITY OF
PERRY, OKLAHOMA.
ERROR TO AND APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
TERRITORY

OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 150. Argued March 4, 1908.-Decided April 6, 1908.
While this court cannot review judgments of the Supreme Court of the
Territory of Oklahoma unless the amount involved exceeds $5,000, where
the judgment also directly involves the validity of other judgments the
amQunt in controversy may be measured by the aggregate of such judgments.
The principles of right and. justice upon which the doctrine of estoppel in
pais rests, are applicable to municipal corporations.
Where public property of a municipality cannot be seized on execution
and the municipality enters into a valid agreement with judgment creditors to apply the judgment fund to judgments in order of entry and
complies therewith, it cannot, after the expiration of the statutory period
when a judgment becomes dormant for failure to issue execution, plead
the statute of limitations as a bar to those judgments not yet reached
for payment under the agreement. The municipality is estopped both
on the contract and on the ground of equitable estoppel, and so held as
to judgments against a city in Oklahoma.
17 Oklahoma, 162, reversed.

.THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. A. G. C. Bierer, with whom Mr. S. H. Harris and
Mr. .Frank Dale were on the briefs, for plaintiff in error and
appellant:
The action being in mandamus to compel a city to recognize the' validity of plaintiff's judgments and to pay out the
moneys already accrued in the judgment fund upon these
judgments, and to continue to make levies to enforce the same,
the statutory period of limitation fixed by law for civil actions
does not run against the relief asked. Duke, Mayor, et al. v.
Turner et al., 204 U. S. 623.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Appellant.

209 U. S.

The section of the Oklahoma statute permitting the enforcement of a judgment by execution and providing for the
dormancy of such judgment if execution is not issued within
five years, has no application to judgments against municipalities in this Territory which are collectible only by the levy
of taxes which are required by the law to be made to create
a judgment fund out of which to pay such judgments.
The cases of Hart v. City of New Orleans, 12 Fed. Rep. 292;
State ex rel. Courter v. Buckles, 35 N. E. Rep. 846; Laredo v.
Benavides, 25 S. W. Rep. 482, cited by Supreme Court of
Oklahoma, reviewed and distinguished from, the case at bar.
Oklahoma law provides for collecting judgments by tax instead of execution.'
That it is and has been throughout the life of all these judgments the duty of the city of Perry to make a levy of five mills
on the dollar to provide a fund with which to pay these judgments is clearly declared by our statute. Sec. 1, art. 5, p. 83,
Statutes of 1897; Session Laws of 1899, § 1, c. 8, p. 103; Wilson's Stat. of 1903, § 466.
The cases cited by the Oklahoma Supreme Court in the
cases of Beadles v. Fry, 15 Oklahoma, 423, are inapplicable to
the facts in the case at bar. Newton v. Arthur, 55 Pac. Rep.
446; Israel v. Nichols, 14 Pac. Rep. 438; Brockway v. Oswego
Township, 4 Pac. Rep. 79; and Baker v. Hummer, 2 Pac. Rep.
808, discussed and distinguished.
Statutes of limitation do not run against municipal obligations of the character of judgments in Oklahoma. Barnes v.
Turner, 14 Oklahoma, 284; Freehill v. Porter, 4 Pac. Rep.
646; Lincoln Co. v. Luning, 133 U. S.529.
The placing of the obligations in question into judgments
which are to be paid out of the judgment fund of the city,
does not in any way affect the principles applied in the Barnes
or Duke v. Turner case. United States v. County of Macon,
99 U. S.582; A., T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Territoryof New Mexico,
72 Pac. Rep. 14; Darcy v. Mumpford, 58 Georgia, 119; United
States ex !rel. Field v. Township of Oswego, 28 Fed. Rep. 55.

BEADLES v. SMYSER.
209 U. S.

.395

Argument for Appellees.

. The city of Perry recognized these judgments as valid judgments and continued to levy taxes to provide money in the
judgment fund to pay these judgments, and mandamus, which
is the only execution against a municipality, could not have
issued until the city refused to recognize and pay the judgments in 1905. Alter v. State, 86 N. W. Rep. 1080.
The city of Perry having ratified and approved the agreement among the judgment creditors to pay these judgments
in their order of rendition, and having carried out this agreement in the levy of taxes and the payment out of the judgment fund of these tax moneys for all these years, should now
be held to be estopped from pleading the dormancy of these
judgments even if otherwise they could have become dormant.
Mr. A. N. Whiteside and Mr. H. B. Martin, for defendants
in error and appellees, submitted:
This court has no jurisdiction of this action, because the
amount involved is less than $5,000.00.
If the validity of plaintiff's judgments were conceded, the
only cause of action appearing upon the face of the alternative
writ is against Fry, the treasurer of the city, and that said
cause of action cannot involve more than the amount of money
in the hands of the treasurer, which is less than the amount
necessary to give this court jurisdiction of the subject-matter
of the-action.
A judgment against a city of the first class under the statutes of Oklahoma becomes dormant after five years from the
date of its rendition if execution shall not be sued out within
that time and such judgment cannot be revived without the
consent of the judgment debtor unless it be revived within
one year from the time it becomes dormant. Section 4337,
statutes of Oklahoma, 1893; Lafayette County v. Wonderly,
92 Fed. Rep. 313; Beadles v. Fry, 82 Pac. Rep. 1041, and cases
cited; Statutes of Oklahoma, 1893, §§ 4325 and 4332 All
these statutes were adopted from the State of Kansas, 'whose
courts have frequently construed them- as we contend they

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

should be. See Angell v. Martin, 24 Kansas, 334; Myers v.
Kotham, 29 Kansas, 19; Tefft v. Citizens' Bank, 36 Kansas,
457; Mawhinney v. Doane, 40 Kansas, 681; Tibbetts v. Deck,
41 Kansas, 492; Bradford v. Loan Co., 47 Kansas, 587; Raft v.
State, 48 Kansas, 45; Railroad Co. v. Butts, 55 Kansas, 661;
New Hampshire Bank Company v. Ball, 57 Kansas, 812;
Reeves v. Long, 63 Kansas, 700; Steinback v. Murphy, 70
Kansas, 487.
As to the necessity of reviving judgments against municipal
corporations within the statutory periods of time, see Brockway v. Oswego Township, 4 Pac. Rep. 79; Ware v. Pleasant
Grove Township, 59 Pac. Rep. 1089; City of Chanute v. Trader,
132 U. S. 210;- Field v. Township of Oswego, 28 Fed. Rep. 55;
Coulan v. Doull, 133 U. S.596; M'Aleer v. Clay Co., 42 Fed.
Rep. 665; Lafayette Co. v. Wonderly, 92 Fed. Rep. 313.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a proceeding to review the judgment of the Supreme
Court of the .Territory of Oklahoma, affirming the judgment
of the District Court of Noble County in that Territory, denying a peremptory writ of mandamus to the plaintiff in error,
also plaintiff below, seeking to compel the recognition of certain judgments and the levy of taxes by the city officers of the
city of Perry, a city of,the first class, in Noble County. The
action was begun March 12, 1906, in the District Court upon
a petition, which set forth the ownership in the plaintiff of
judgments against the city of Perry, rendered, with two exceptions, in the year 1898; the other two rendered in January
and March, 1899, and aggregating the sum of $16,304.51, in-1
cluding interest and costs.
The petition avers that these judgments were rendered on
warrants issued by the city of Perry upon the general fund.
of the city; that no funds having been provided for the payment of plaintiff's and certain other judgments, on December 3, 1901, the judgment creditors of the city entered into an

BEADLES v. SMYSER.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

agreement with the city treasurer of the city by signing a
certain paper writing, to wit:
"I, the undersigned, judgment creditor, holding judgment
against the city of Perry, Noble County, Oklahoma Territory,
hereby ask that the city treasurer pay all judgments against
the city of Perry in order of rendition, hereby waiving right
to payment pro rata, if such right exists, and this waiver shall
apply to all grantees and assigns. Said judgments are in
amounts and dates as follows:" [Here follows a list of the
judgments.]
At that time the outstanding unpaid judgment indebtedness of the city of Perry amounted to $22,000, all of the owners
of which, excepting the sum of $4,000, signed the agreement;
that the waivers thus signed were presented to the city council
of the city, which adopted the following resolution:
. "Whereas, the judgment creditors holding judgments
against the city of Perry have practically all signed written
waivers of the right, if such right exists, to payment of said
judgments pro rata, and therein consent to the payment of
said judgments in' the order of their rendition against said
city:
"Therefore, be it resolved, That the city treasurer is hereby
authorized and directed to pay the said judgments existing
against the city of Perry in the order of their rendition out of
the funds now on hand and as they shall accrue in the judgment fund."
That thereafter the city treasurer followed the plan thus
outlined of paying judgments up to the early part of the year
1905, and the judgments prior to those sued upon by the plaintiff were paid off in that way. And it is averred that under
the laws of the Territory of Oklahoma a judgment fund must
be created to satisfy a judgment against a municipality, and
a judgment of that kind can be paid in no other way. And
that under the laws of Oklahona no execution can be levied
upon a judgment against the municipality, and that during
the time since the rendition of the judgments the city of Perry

OCTOBER TERM, 19107.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

has had no property subject to levy upon execution, and that
the judgments of the plaintiff could not have been paid, and
taxes levied for that purpose, because there had not been
sufficient money in the judgment fund of the city of Perry
to pay the judgments or any part thereof. That under the
agreement of December 3, 1901, payments of judgments
against the city have been made, but in the order of rendition
the fund has been paid upon judgments prior to the plaintiffs.
That under the law of the Territory, during the life of the
.said judgments, at least since the year 1899, it has been the
duty of the city of Perry to levy annually a tax not to exceed
five mills on the dollar on all the property of the said city, to
create a judgment fund, and that said city has made said levy
annually, and paid judgments down to the early part of 1905,
since which time the city treasurer of the city of Perry, under
the direction of the mayor and city council, has declined to
pay the plaintiff's judgments. or any proportion of the same,
and that there has accumulated in the hands of the city treasurer $2,286.96, the judgment fund of said city. And that
at all times down to the beginning of the year 1905 the city
of Perry has recognized the binding force and validity of saidjudgments; that the mayor and council and treasurer of said
city decline and refuse to recognize the validity of the plaintiff's judgments or pay any part thereof, and deny any liability thereon, solely on the ground that the same have become dormant and barred by the statute of limitations of the
Territory of Oklahoma. And other averments are made as
to-the inability of the plaintiff to otherwise collect their money
upon the judgments than by payment by a levy at five mills
on the dollar of the taxable property of the city. And the
plaintiff prayed a writ of mandamus against the mayor, city
council and treasurer of said city, commanding them to recognize the said judgments and to continue to make the five-mill
levy allowed by the law. for the judgment fund for the payment of said judgments against the city, as provided by law.
An alternate writ of mandamus was issued, reciting the al-

BEADLES v. SMYSER.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

legations of the petition, to which the defendant filed an
amended answer, in which they set up that each and all of
the judgments set out in the alternate writ of mandamus have
become dormant because no execution was issued on any of
said judgments, and no proceeding begun for the revival of
any of them and the same were barred by the statute of limitations of the Territory.
The plaintiff filed a motion for judgment upon the amended
answer and prayed the issuance of a peremptory writ of mandamus upon the ground' that the amended answer failed to
state any legal reason why said, peremptory writ should not
be issued. The defendant moved the court for judgment on
the pleadings, on the ground that all the judgments were
barred by the statute of limitations. The court sustained the
motion of the defendant and entered final judgment in the defendant's favor, upon the ground that all the judgments set
out in the alternate writ of mandamus have become dormant
and are barred by the statute of limitations.
Upon proceedings in error in the Supreme Court of the
Territory of Oklahoma this judgment was affirmed on the
authority of Beadles v. Fry, 15 Oklahoma, 428. The present
case is reported, 17 Oklahoma, 162.
The question is first made as to the jurisdiction of this court,
because it is averred that the sum of $5,000 is not involved,
but we are of the opinion that the issue made and decided
involved the validity of the $16,000 and upwards, of judgments described in the petition and amended writ. The
prayer of the petitioner was for a continuous levy of taxes for
the amount permitted by law to be applied in payment of
the judgments. The answer set up that all the judgments
were barred by the statute of limitations, and the District
Court of Noble County determined that the judgments ana
each and all of them set out in the petition and alternate writ
of mandamus had become dormant and were barred by the
statute of limitations. This judgment was affirmed by the
Supreme Court of Oklahoma.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

Appeals and writs of error are allowed from the Supreme
Court of Oklahoma to this court where the Value of the property or the amount in controversy, to. be ascertained by the
affidavit of either party or other competent witness, exceeds
$5,000 Supp'ement U. S. Revised Stats. vol. 1, p. 724.
We think the judgment in this case involves the validity
of all the plaintiff's judgments, and that the amount in controversy is not simply the fund in the hands of the treasurer,
but the amount of all the judgments concerning whichrelief
was sought and which were directly 'adjudicated to be barred
by the statute of limitations.
The question made in the case is whether the judgments are
dormant by the statute of limitations of the Territory of Oklahoma 'or failure to issue execution thereon for the period of five
years, and because the same were not revived within one year
after they became dormant. The statutes of Oklahoma in
2 Wilson's Statutes of 1903, provide as follows:
Section 4635. "If execution shall not be sued out within five
years from the date of any judgment that now is or may hereafter be rendered, in any court of record in this Territory, or if
five years shall have intervened between the date of tlhe last execution issued on such judgment and the time of suing out
another writ of execution thereon, such judgment shall become dormant, and shall cease to operate as a lien on the estate of the judgment debtor."
Section 4623 is as follows:
"An order to revive an action against the representative or
successor of a defendant shall not be made without the consent of such representative or successor unless in one year
from the time it could have been first made."
And section 4630 provides:
"If a judgment becomes dormant it may be revived in the
same manner as prescribed for reviving actions before judgment."
It is contended by the counsel for the appellant that this
case is governed by the ruling of this court in Duke, Mayor

BEADLES v. SMYSER.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

&c. v. Turner and others, 204 U. S. 623. We are of opinion
that the question here involved was not determined in that
case. There was no question of a judgment becoming dormant. under the statute of limitations for want of execution
within five years. The point decided' in that case was that
the petition for mandamus was not a civil action within the
meaning of the Oklahoma Code, barred by the three-year
statute of limitations, and the question was whether the relator had slept upon his rights for such an unreasonable time
as to prejudice the rights of the defendant and preclude relief by mandamus. In this case the underlying question is
not as to whether a writ of mandamus is the proper remedy,
but is, whether the judgment is dormant by reason of the statute of limitations and incapable of being enforced against the
municipality.
The Supreme Court of Oklahoma held that the statute
made no exception, and that notwithstanding the averment
of the petition that the city of Perry had no property liable to
be reached on execution, that unless execution were issued
within the five years, or the judgment revived within one year,
it had becbme dormant for failure to comply with the law.
There is some difference of view in the opinion of the courts
upon the subject of executions against municipalities, and in
some of them it is held that property of a municipality may be
reached on execution which is held for profit and not charged
with any public trust or use. It was held in this court that
the public property of a municipal corporation cannot be
seized upon execution. Klein v. New Orleans, 99 U. S. 149.
Judge Dillon, in his work on Municipal Corporations (4th ed.)
notices the differences of ruling on the subject, and states as
his own conclusion §576:
"On principle, in the absence of statutable provision, or
legislative policy in the particular State, it would seem to be
a sound view to hold that the right to contract and the power
to be sued give to the creditor a right to recover judgment;
that judgment should be enforceable by execution against the
VOL. ccix-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

strictly private property of the corporation, but not against
any property owned or used by the corporation for public
purposes, such as public buildings, hospitals and cemeteries;
fire engines and apparatus, waterworks, and the like; and that
judgments should not be deemed liens upon real property
except when it may be taken in execution."
Accepting the decision of the Supreme Court of Oklahoma,
rendered in 15 Oklahoma, supra, construing the statute so
as to permit the issuance of execution against the municipality,
with the right to levy upon, the private property of the corporation if it has any, could the city take advantage of the failure to issue execution under the circumstances shown in this
case? This subject was briefly disposed of in the opinion in
that court, and of it the learned court said (15 Oklahoma, 436):
"It is alleged that this agreement and resolution of the city
council prevented the runhing of the statutes. This resolution
was passed at a time when the plaintiff's judgments were in
full force and effect. The city council did not attempt to renew its liability on these judgments. Without expressing our
views as to whether such judgments should be paid pro rata,
or in order of priority as to date, we are of the opinion that
the council could not change the law, and if the resolution
purported to change it, it would be void; and if it was in conformity with the law it would not change the relation of the
parties."
That the principles of right and justice, upon which the
doctrine of estoppel in pais rest, are applicable to municipal
corporations, is recognized by textwriters and in well-considered cases. In 1 Dillon on Municipal Corporations (4th ed.),
in a note to § 417, that learned author says:
"Any positive acts (in ra vires) by municipal officers which
may have induced the action of the adverse party, and where
it would be inequitable to permit the corporation to stultify
itself, by retracting what its officers had* done, will work an
estoppel."
And this case does not rest on the ground of equitable es-

BEADLES v. SMYSER.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

toppel alone. The manner of liquidation of these judgments
was the subject of express contiact between the parties.
In the present case, by the action of the city council, the
judgment creditors were so placed that during the time, at
least while the city council were carrying out the arrangement
of December 3, 1901, in good faith, they could not consistently
with fair dealing and the terms of the contract on their part,
issue an execution to seize the property of the municipality;
had they undertaken to do so a court of equity would have
promptly restrained such proceedings.
.It is averred, and not denied, that up until the year 1905
the city council made a levy each year for the largest amount
which the statute permitted, to create a judgment fund out
of which to pay, and out of which was regularly paid, the outstanding judgments against the city, and that these payments
continued until the plaintiff's judgments were reached, which
were next in order. While thus acting to the limit to which
the law permitted, and in good faith carrying out the arrangement between the parties, it is perfectly apparent that the
plaintiff was not in a position to seize by execution any property of the municipality
If it could be held, as the authorities indicate (2 Dillon on
Municip. Corp., 4th ed., § 850, note 1), that when execution
cannot be issued on a judgment against a municipality, mandamus may take its place, the action of the city council in
making the arrangement in question would have equally prevented the plaintiffs from availing themselves of that writ.
In this case the agreement made by the parties in December, 1901, was being continuously carried but until 1905. And
during that time the city of. Perry was doing all it could be
compelled by mandamus to do in levying taxes to the full
amount required by law for the payment of judgments against
the city. The court would have no power by mandamus to
compel the levy of taxes which the law did not authorize.
United States v. Macon County Court, 99 U. S. 582.
As we have said, the principles of natural justice and fair

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the'Court.

209 U. S.

dealing are alike applicable to municipal corporations as to
individuals, and to permit the city to escape the payment of
judgments, whose validity .is not otherwise questioned, for
failure to issue execution or sue out a writ of mandamus during the time when the action of the city officers was such as
to prevent the exercise of the right, would be to permit the
action of the representatives of the city, who have had the
benefit of the contract during the time both parties were observing its obligations, to work a gross injustice upon the creditors holding valid judgments against the municipality.
We have been referred to no case precisely in point. Analogous cases are not altogether wanting.' In Mercantile Trust
Co. v. St. L. & S. F. Rwy., 69 Fed. Rep. 193, it was held that
a stay of execution in the record prevented the judgment becoming dormant. In Marshall v. Minter, 43 Mississippi, 678,
it was held that the statute did not run during the time an
injunction was in force, sued out by the adverse party and
afterwards dissolved.
It is not argued at the bar in this case that the arrangement
with the judgment creditors Was void for want of power in
the municipality to make the arrangement of December, 1901,
and we fail to see any valid reason why the municipality might
not enter into this arrangement. It was permitted by law
to make an annual levy of five mills on the dollar. 1 Wilson's
Statutes, 1903, § 466. If the judgment creditors and the
municipality saw fit to make an arrangement by which the
amount of this annual levy might be distributed by the consent of the creditors among them in accordance with the
priority of their judgments, we perceive no reason why this
may not be legally done. The effect of this arrangement was
to prevent the judgment creditor from taking such steps as
the law permitted to collect his judgment, and, upon principles of common right and justice, it would not do to permit thQ
city to carry out such an arrangement during nearly all the
five years' period, and then meet its obligation by a plea of
the statute of limitations upon the ground that the judgments

WARE & LELAND v. MOBILE COUNTY.
209 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

had become dormant, while both parties were recognizing
their binding oblgation and doing all that the law permitted,
to effect their satisfaction, and had entered into a contract
which prevented the judgment creditors from taking steps
to avail themselves of their right to collect their judgments by
execution or by writ of mandamus.
For these reasons the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Oklahoma Territory is
Reversed, and the cause remanded to the Supreme Court of the
State of Ok'ahoma for further proceedings in accordance
with this opinion.

WARE AND LELAND v. MOBILE COUNTY.
WARE AND LELAND v. STATE OF ALABAMA'.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ALABAMA.
Nos. 173, 174.

Submitted March 10, 1908.-Decided April 6, 1908.

Contracts for sales of cotton for future delivery, w'hich do not oblige interstate shipments, are not subjects of interstate commerce, nor does the
fact that a delivery may be made by means of interstate carriage make
them so; and a state tax on persons engaged in buying and selling cotton
for future delivery held in this case not to be a regulation of interstate
commerce and as such beyond the power of the State. Paul v. Virginia
(insurance policy case), 8 Wall. 168, followed; Lottery Case, 188 U. S. 321;
Rearick v. Pennsylvania, 203 U. S. 507, distinguished.
146 Alabama, 163, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Burwell Boykin Boone for pla'ntiffs in error:
The license tax in question, sought to be collected from the
plaintiffs in error, is a burden upon and a regulation of interstate commerce, and in conflict with Artic'e I, Section 8, para-

