Ex parte YOUNG.
209 U.S.

Syllabus.

of the original complainant, it would seem necessarily to result that the charge of an unlawful discrimination is not proved.
In short, there was no intent on the part of the railway companies to do a wrongful act, and the act itself did not work any
substantial injury to the rights of the complainant.
We have not attempted to review in detail the great mass
of testimony, amounting to two enormous printed volumes.
It is enough to say that an, examination of it clearly shows
sufficient reasons for the findings of fact made by the Circuit
Court.
In short, the findings of the Circuit Court were warranted
by the testimony, and those findings make it clear that there
was no unlawful discrimination.
The decree of the Circuit Court is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MOODY did not hear the argument nor take part
in the decision of this case.

Ex parte YOUNG.
PETITION FOR WRITS OF HABEAS. CORPUS AND
No. 10, Original.

CERTIORARI.

Argued December 2, 3, 1907.-Decided March 23, 1908.

While this court will not take jurisdiction if it should not, it must take jurisdiction if it should. It cannot, as the legislature may, avoid meeting a
mcasure because it desires so to do.
In this case a suit by a stockholder against a corporation to enjoin the directors *and officers from complying with the provisions of a state statute,
alleged to be unconstitutional, was properly brought within Equity Rule
94 of this court.
An order of the Circuit Court committing one for contempt for violation of
a decree entered in a suit of which it did not have jurisdiction is unlawful;
and, in such case, upon proper application, this court will discharge the
person so held.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Syllabus.

209 U. S.

Although the determination of whether a railway rate prescribed by a state
statute is so low as to be confiscatory.involves a question of fact, its solution raises a Federal question, and the sufficiency of rates is a judicial
question over which the proper Circuit Court has jurisdiction, as one arising under the Constitution of the United States.
Whether a state statute is unconstitutional because the penalties for its
violation are so enormous that persons affected thereby are prevented
from resorting to the courts for the purpose of determining the validity
of the statute and are thereby denied the equal protection of the law and
thdir property rendered liable to be taken without due process of law, is a
Federal. question and gives the Circuit Court jurisdiction.
Whether the state railroad rate statute involved in this case, although on its
face relating only to intrastate rates, was an interference with interstate
commerce held to raise a Federal question which could not be considered
frivolous.
A state railroad rate statute which imposes such excessive penalties that
parties affected are deterred from testing its validity in the courts denies
the carrier the equal protection of the law without regard to the question
of insufficiency of the rates prescribed; it is within the jurisdiction, and is
the duty, of the Circuit Court to inquire whether such rates are so low as
to be confiscatory, and if so to permanently enjoin the railroad company,
at the suit of one of its stockholders, from putting them in force, and it
has power pending such inquiry to grant a temporary injunction to the
same effect.
While there is no rule permitting a person to disobey a statute with impunity
at least once for the purpose of testing its validity, where such validity
can only be determined by judicial investigation and construction, a provision in'the statute which imposes such severe penalties for disobedience
of its provisions as to intimidate the parties affected thereby from resorting
to the courts to test its validity practically prohibits those parties from
seeking such judicial construction and denies them the equal protection
of the law.
The attempt of a state officer to enforce an unconstitutional statute is a proceeding without authority of, and does not affect, the State in its sovereign
or governmental capacity, and is an illegal act and the officer is stripped of
his official character and is subjected in his person to the consequences of
his individual conduct. The State has no power to impart to its officer
immunity from responsibi!itv to the supreme authority of the United
States.
When the question of the validity of a state statute with reference to the
Federal Constitution has been first raised in a Federal court that court has
the right to decide it to the exclusion of all other courts.
It is not necessary that the duty of a state officer to enforce a statute be
declared in that statute itself in order to permit his being joined as a party
defendant from enforcing it; if by virtue of his office he has some connec-.
tion with the enforcement of the act it is immaterial whether it arises by'
common general law or by statute.

Ez parte YOUNG.
209 U.S.

125

Syllabus.

While the courts cannot control the exercise of the discretion of an executive
officer, an injunction preventing such officer from enforcing an unconstitutional statute is not an interference with his discretion.
The Attorney General of the State of Minnesota, under his common law
power and the state statutes, has the general authority imposed upon
him of enforcing constitutional statutes of the State and is a proper
party. defendant: to a suit brought to prevent the enforcement of a state
statute on the ground of its unconstitutionality.
While a Federal court cannot interfere in a criminal case already pending
in a state court, and while, as a general rule, a court of equity cannot enjoin criminal proceedings, those rules do not apply when such proceedings
are brought to enforce an alleged unconstitutional state statute, after
the unconstitutionality thereof has become the subject of inquiry in a suit
pending in a Federal court which has first obtained jurisdiction thereover;
and under such circumstances the Federal court has the right in both civil
and criminal cases to hold and maintain such jurisdiction to the exclusion
of all other courts.
While making a state officer who has no connection with the enforcement
of an act alleged to be unconstitutional a party defendant is merely making
him a party as a representative of the'State, and thereby amounts to
making the State a party within the prohibition of the Eleventh Amendment, individuals, who, as officers of the State, are clothed with some duty
in regard to -the enforcement of the laws of the State, and who threaten
and are about to commence an action, either civil or criminal, to enforce
an unconstitutional state statute may be enjoined from so doing by a
Federal court.
Under such conditions as are involved in this case the Federal court may
enjoin an individual or a state officer from enforcing a state statute on
may not restrain the state court
account .of its unconsl~tutionality, but :it
from acting'in any case brought before it either of a civil or criminal nature,
or prevent any investigation or action by a grand jury.
An injunction by a Federal court against a state court would violate the
whole scheme of this Government,and it does not follow that because an
individual may be enjoined from doing certain things a court may be
similarly enjoined.
No adequate remedy at law, sufficient to prevent a court of equity from acting, exists in a case'where the enforcement of an unconstitutional state
rate statute would require the complainant to carry merchandise at confiscatory rates if it complied with the statute and subject it to excessive
penalties in case it did not comply therewith and its validity was finally
sustained.
While a common carrier sued at common law, for penalties under, or on indictment for violation of, a state rate statute might interpose as a defense
the unconstitutionality of the statute on account of the confiscatory
character of the rates prescribed, a jury cannot intelligently pass upon
such a matter; the proper method is to determine the constitutionality
of the statute in a court of equity in which the opinions of experts may be

126

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

209 U. S.

taken and the matter referred to a master to make the needed computations and to find the necessary facts on which the court may act.
A state rate statute is to be regarded as prima facie valid, and the onus rests
on the carrier to prove the contrary.
The railroad interests of this country are of great magnitude, and the thousands of persons interested therein are entitled to protection from the
laws and from the courts equally with the owners of all other kinds of
property, and the courts having jurisdiction, whether Federal or state,
should at all times be open to them, and where there is no adequate remedy at law the proper course to protect their rights is by suit in equity in
which all interested parties are made defendants.
While injunctions against the enforcement of a state rate statute should not
be granted by a Federal court except in a case reasonably free from doubt,
the equity jurisdiction of the Federal court has been constantly exercised
for such purpose.
The Circuit Court of the United States having, in an action brought by a
stockholder of the Northern Pacific Railway Company against the officers
of the road, certain shippers and the Attorney General and certain other
officials of the State of Minnesota, held that a railroad rate statute of
Minnesota was unconstitutional and enjoined all the defendants from enforcing such statute, and the Attorney General having refused to comply
with such order, the Circuit Court fined and committed him for contempt,
and this court refused to discharge him on habeas corpus.

AN original application was made to this court for leave to
file a petition for writs of habeas corpus and certiorari in behalf
of Edward T. Young, petitioner, as Attorney General of the
State of Minnesota.
Leave was granted and a rule entered directing the United States marshal for the District of Minnesota, Third Division,

who held the petitioner in his custody, to show cause why such
petition should not be granted.
The marshal, upon the return of the order to show cause,
justified his detention of the petitioner by virtue of an order
of the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Minnesota, which adjudged .the petitioner guilty of contempt
of that court and directed that he be fined the sum of $100,
and that he should dismiss the mandamus proceedings brought
by him in the name and behalf of the State in the Circuit Court
of the State, and that he should stand committed to the custody of the marshal until that order was obeyed. The case

Ex parte YOUNG.
209 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

involves the validity of the order of the Circuit Court committing him for contempt.
The facts are these: The legislature of the State of Minnesota
duly created a railroad and warehouse commission, and that
commission on the sixth of September, 1906, made an order
fixing the rates for the various- railroad companies for the
carriage of merchandise between stations- in that State of the
kind and classes specified in what is known as the "Western
Classification." These rates materially reduced those then
existing, and were by the order to take effect November 15,
1906. In obedience to the order the railroads filed and pubfished the schedules of rate* which have ever since that time
been carried out by the companies.
At the time of the making of the above order it was provided by the Revised Laws of Minnesota, 1905 (ยง 1987), that
any common carrier who violated the provisions of that section or willfully suffered any such unlawful act or omission,
when no specific penalty is imposed therefor, "if a natural
person, shall be guilty of a gross misdemeanor, and shall be
punished by a fine of not less than twenty-five hundred dollars,
nor more than five thousand dollars for the first offense, and
not less than five thousand dollars nor more than ten thousand
dollars for each subsequent offense; and, if such carrier or
warehouseman be a corporation, it shall forfeit to the State for
the first offense not less than twenty-five hundred dollars nor
more than five thousand dollars, and for each subsequent
offense not less than five thousand dollars nor more than ten
thousand dollars, to be recovered in a civil action."
.This provision covered disobedience to the orders of
the
Commission.
On the fourth of April, 1907, the legislature of the State of
Minnesota passed an act fixing two cents a mile as the maximum passenger rate to be charged by railroads in Minnesota.
(The rate' had been theretofore three cents per mile.) The act
was to take effect on the first of May, 1907, and was put into
effect on that day by the railroad companies, and the same

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Cae.

209 U. S.

has been observed by them up to the present time. It was
provided in the act that "Any railroad company, or any officer,
agent or representative thereof, who shall violate any provision of this act shall be guilty of a felony and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding five
thousand (5,000) dollars, or by imprisonment in the State
prison for a period not exceeding five (5) years, or both such
fine and imprisonment."
On -the eighteenth of April, 1907, the legislature passed an
act (chapter 232 of the laws of that year), which established
rates for the transportation of certain commodities (not included in the Western Classification) between stations in that
State. The act divided the commodities to which it referred
into seven classes, and set forth a schedule of maximum rates
for each class when transported in carload lots and established
the minimum weight which constituted a carload of each class.
Section 5 provided -that it should not affect the power
ox
authority of the Railroad and Warehouse Commission, except
that no duty should rest upon that commission to enforce any
rates specifically fixed by the act or any other statute of the
State. The section, further provided generally that the orders
made by the Railroad and Warehouse Commission prescribing
rates should be the exclusive legal maximum rates for the
transportation of the commodities enumerated in the act between points within that State.
Section 6 directed that every railroad company in the State
should adopt and publish and put into effect the rates specified
in the statute, and that every officer, director traffic manager
or agent or employ6 of such railroad company should cause
the adoption, publication and use by such railroad company
of rates not exceeding those specified in the act; "and any
officer, director or such agent or employ6 of any such railroad
company who violates any of the provisions of this section,
or who causes or counsels, advises or assists any such railroad
company to violate any of the provisions of this section, shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor, and may be prosecuted therefor

Ex parte YOUNG.
209 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

in any county into which its railroad extends, and in which
it has a station, and upon a conviction thereof be punished by
imprisonment in the county jail for a period not exceeding
ninety days." The act was to take effect June 1, 1907.
The railroad companies did not obey the provisions of this
act so far as concerned the adoption and publication of rates
as specified therein.
On the thirty-first of May, 1907, the day before the act was
to take effect, nine suits in equity were commenced in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Minnesota,
Third Division, each suit being brought by stockholders of
the particular railroad mentioned in the bill, and in each case
the defendants named were the railroad company of which the
complainants were, respectively, stockholders, and the members of the Railroad and Warehouse Commission, and the Attorney General of the State, Edward T; Young, and individual defendants representing the shippers of freight upon the railroad.
The order punishing Mr. Young for contempt was made in
the suit in which Charles E. Perkins, a citizen of 'the State of
Iowa, and David C. Shepard, a citizen of the State of Minnesota,
were complainants, and the Northern Pacific Railway Company, a corporation organized under the laws of the State of
Wisconsin, Edward T. Young, petitioner herein, and others,
were parties defendant. All of the defendants, except the
railway company, are citizens and residents of the State of
Minnesota.
It was averred in the bill that the suit was not a collusive
one to confer on the court jurisdiction of a case of which it
could not otherwise have cognizance, but that the objects and
purposes of the suit were to enjoin the railway company from
publishing or adopting (or continuing to observe, if already
adopted) the rates and tariffs prescribed and set forth in the
two acts of the legislature above mentioned and in the orders
of the Railroad and Warehouse Commission, and also to enjoin
the other defendants from attempting to enforce such provisions, or from instituting any action or proceeding against
VOL. CCIX-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

209 U. S.

the defendant railway company, its officers, etc., on account
of any violation thereof, for the reason that the said acts and
orders were and each of them was violative of the Constitution
of the United States.
The bill also alleged that the orders of the Railroad Commission of September 6, 1906, May 3, 1907, the passenger rate
act of April 4, 1907, and the act of April 18, 1907, reducing
the tariffs and charges which the railway company had theretofore been permitted to make, were each and all of them unjust, unreasonable and confiscatory, in that they each of them
would, and will if enforced, deprive complainants and the
railway company of their property without due process of law,
and deprive them and it of the equal protection of the laws,
contrary to and in violation of the Constitution of the United
States and the amendments thereof. It was also averred that
the complainants had demanded of the president and managing directors of the railway company that they should cease
obedience to the orders of the Commission dated September 6,
1906, and May 3, 1907. and to the acts already mentioned,.
and that the rates prescribed in such orders and acts should
not be put into effect, and that the said corporation, its officers
and directors, should institute proper suit. or suits to prevent
said rates (named in the orders and in the acts of the legislature) from continuing or becoming effective, as the case
might be, and to have the same declared illegal; but the said
corporation, its piesident and. directors,. had positively declined and refused to do so, not because they considered the
rates a fair and just return upon the capital invested or that
they would not be confiscatory, but because of the severity
of the penalties provided .f6r the violation of such acts and
orders, and therefore they could not subject themselves to
the ruinous consequences which would inevitably result from
failure on their part to obey the said laws and orders, a result which no action by themselves, their stockholders or di-.
rectors, could possibly prevent.
The bill further alleged that the orders of the Commission

Ex parte YOUNG.
209 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

of September, 1906, and May, 1907, and the acts of April 4,
1907, and April 18, 1907, were, in the penalties prescribed
for their violation, so drastic that no owner or operator of a
railway property could invoke the jurisdiction of any court
to test the validity thereof, except at the risk of confiscation
of its property, and the imprisonment for long terms in jails
and penitentiaries of its officers, agents and employ6s. For
this reason the complainants alleged that the above-mentioned
orders and acts, and each of them, denied to the defendant
railway company and its stockholders, including the complainants, the equal protection of the laws, and deprived it
and them of their property without due process of law, and
that each of them was, for that reason, unconstitutional and
void.
The bill also contained an averment that if the railway company should fail to continue to observe and keep in force or
to observe and put in force the orders of the Commission and
the acts of April 4, 1907, and April 18, 1907, such failure might
- ult in an action against the company or criminal proceedings
:,[ ainst its officers, directors, agents or employ6s, subjecting
rile company and such officers to an endless number of actions
at law and criminal proceedings; that if the company should
fail to obey the order of the Commission or the acts of April 4,
1907, and April 18, 1907, the said Edward T. Young, as Attorney General of the State ot Minnesota, would, as complainants were advised, and believed, institute proceedings by
mandamus or otherwise against the railway company, its
officers, directors, agents or employ6s, to enforce said orders
and all the provisions thereof, and that he threatened and
would take other proceedings against the company, its officers,
etc., to the same end and for the same purpqse, and that he
would on such failure institute mandamus or other proceedings
for the purpose of enforcing said acts and each thereof, and
the provisions and penalties thereof. Appropriate relief by
injunction against the action of the defendant Young and the
railroad commission was asked for.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

209 U. S.

A temporary restraining order was made by the Circuit
Court, which only restrained the railway company from publishing the rates as provided for in the act of April 18, 1907,
and from reducing its tariffs to the figures set forth in that act;
the court refusing for the present to interfere by injunction
with regard to the orders of the Commission and the act of
April 4, 1907, as the railroads had already put them in operation, but it restrained Edward T. Young, Attorney General,
from taking any steps against the railroads to enforce the remedies or penalties specified in the act of April 18, 1907.
Copies of the bill and the restraining order were served,
among others, upon the defendant Mr. Edward T. Young,
Attorney General, who appeared specially and only for the purpose of moving to dismiss the bill as to him, on the ground
that the court had no jurisdiction over him as Attorney General; and he averred that the State of Minnesota had not consented, and did not consent, to the commencement of this suit
against him as Attorney General of the State, which suit was
in truth and effect a suit against the said State of Minnesota,
contrary to the Eleventh Amendment of the Constitution of
the United States.
The Attorney General also filed a demurrer to the bill, on
the same grounds stated in the motion to dismiss. The motion was denied and .the demurrer overruled.
Thereupon, on the twenty-third of September, 1907, the
court, after a hearing of all parties and taking proofs in regard
to the issues involved, ordered a temporary injunction to issue
against the railway company, restraining it, pending the final
hearing of the cause, from putting into effect the tariffs, rates
or charges set forth in the act approved April 18, 1907. The
court also enjoined the defendant Young, as Attorney General
of the State of Minnesota, pending the final hearing of the
cause, from taking or instituting any action or proceeding to
enforce the penalties and remedies specified in the act above
mentioned, or to compel obedience to that act, or compliance
therewith, or any part thereof.

Ex parte YOUNG.
209 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

As the court refused to grant any preliminary injunction
restraining the enforcement of the rates fixed by the Railroad
and Warehouse Commission, or the passenger rates under the
act of April 4, 1907, because the same had been accepted oy
the railroads and were in operation, the court stated that in
omitting the granting of such preliminary injunction the necessity was obviated upon that hearing of determining whether
the rates fixed by the Commission, or the passenger rates
together or singly, were confiscatory and did not afford reasonable compensation for the service rendered and a proper
allowance for the property employed, and for those reasons
that question had not been considered, but inasmuch as the
rates fixed by the act of April 18, 1907, had not gone into force,
the court observed: "It seems to m, upon this evidence of
the conditions before either of those new rates were put into
effect (that is, the order of the Commission of September, 1906,
or the act of April 4, 1907), and the reductions made by those
rates, that if there is added the reduction which is attempted
to be made by the commodity act (April 18, 1907) it will reduce the compensation received by the companies below what
would be a fair compensation for the services performed, including an adequate return upon the property invested. And
I think, on the whole, that a preliminary injunction should
issue, in respect to the rates fixed by chapter 232 (act of
April 18), talked of as the commodity rates, 'and that there
should be no preliminary injunction as to the other rates,
although the matter as to whether they are compensatory or not
is a matter which may be determined in the final determination
of the action."
The day after the granting of this preliminary injunction
the Attorney General, in violation of such injunction, filed a
petition for an alternative writ of mandamus in one of the
courts of the State, and obtained an order from that court,
September 24, 1907, directing the alternative writ to issue as
prayed for in the petition. The writ was thereafter issued
and served upon the Northern Pacific Railway Company,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Petitioner.

209 U. S.

commanding the company, immediately after its receipt, "to
adopt and publish and keep for public inspection, as provided
by law, as the rates and charges to be made, demanded and
maintained by you for the transportation of freight between
stations in the State of Minnesota of the kind, character and
class named and specified in chapter 232 of the Session Laws
of the State of Minnesota for the year 1907, rates and charges
which do not exceed those declared to be just and reasonable in
and by the terms and provisions of said chapter 232. . ."
Upon an affidavit showing these facts the United States
Circuit Court ordered Mr. Young to show cause why he should
not be punished as for a contempt for his misconduct in violating the temporary injunction issued by that court in the
case therein pending.
Upon the return of this order the Attorney General filed his
answer, in which he set up the same objections which he had
made to the jurisdiction of the court in his motion to dismiss
the bill, and in his demurrer; he disclaimed any intention to
treat the court with disrespect in the commencement of the
proceedings referred to, but believing that the decision of the
court in the action, holding that it had jurisdiction to enjoin
him as Attorney General from performing his discretionary
official duties, was in conflict with the Eleventh Amendment
of the Constitution of the United States, as the same has been
interpreted and applied. by the United States Supreme Court,
he believed it to be his duty as such Attorney General to commence the mandamus proceedings for and in behalf of the State,
and it was in this belief that the proceedings were commenced
solely for the purpose of enforcing the law of the Statq of Minnesota. The order adjudging him in contempt was then made.
Mr. Thomas D. O'Brien,Mr. Herbert S. Hadley Iand Mr. Edward T. Young, with whom Mr. Royal A. Stone, Mr. George T.
Simpson and Mr.Chartes S. Jelly were on the brief, for petitioner:
1 Attorney General of the $tate of Missouri.

Ex p
209 V. S.

YOUNG.

135

Argument for Petitioner.

This court in this proceeding will determine the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court in the suit in which the order punishing
for contempt was made, and if it is found that the Circuit Court
had no jurisdiction in the suit, or was without power or authority to make the order enjoining the petitioner, will direct
his discharge from custody.
This application does not fall within those decisions where
this court has held that the case was not a proper one to be
considered in proceedings under the writ of habeas corpus or
those holding that this court may exercise its discretion in
granting or withholding the writ. It is in accordance with
the decision rendered in Ex parte Yarbrough, 110 U. S. 651.
See also Ex parte Fisk, 113 U. S. 713; Ex parte Wells, 18 How.
307; Ex parte Lange, 18 Wall. 163; Ex parte Rowland, 104 U. S.
604; Ex pare Parks, 93 U. S. 18; Ex parte Ayers, 123 U. S. 443;
Ex parte Siebold, 100 U. S. 371; Ex parte Kearney, 7 Wheat.
38; Ex parte Royall, 117 U. S. 241; Ex parte Mayfield, 141 U. S.
107; Ex parte McKenzie, .180 U. S. 536; Delgado v. Chaves,
140 U. S. 586; Ex parte Watkins, 3 Peters, 193.
The Circuit Court did not have jurisdiction because of diverse citizenship, and no Federal question was presented by
the bill of complaint which justified the Circuit Court in assuming jurisdiction.
The sufficiency of the intrastate rates prescribed by chapter 232, did not present a question involving the construction
of the Constitution of the United States. The adequacy or
inadequacy of a prescribed rate is a question of fact only.
Illinois C. R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Com., 206 U. S. 441.
Where the true meaning and construction of a constitutional
provision has been settled by decisions of this court, the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court will be determined, upon a consideration of the bill of complainant, in the same manner as
it would be if it appeared from all the pleadings in the case
that there was no controversy as to the meaning orconstruction
of the Constitution or law under which it is claimed the controversy arises. Western Union Tel. Co. v. Ann Arbor R. Co.,

136

OCTOBER TE!,

1907.

Argument for Petitioner.

209 U. S.

178 U. S. 239; Equitable Life Assurance Co. v. Brown, 187 U. S.
308; New Orleans Water Works Co. v. Louisiana, 185 U. S. 336.
The construction and effect of the provisions of the Constitution of the United States relied upon in the suit in the
Circuit Court are settled beyond controversy by the following
as well as many other decisions: Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113;
C. M. & St. P. R. R. v. Minnesota, 134 U.-S. 418; Wisconsin
&c. R. R. v. Jacobson, 179 U. S. 287; Covington v. Bridge
Co., 154 U. S. 204; Houston Central Ry. Co. v. Mayes, 201
U. S. 321; Railroad Commission Cases, 116 U. S. 307; Dow v.
Beidleman, 125 U. S. 680; Carson v. Durham, 121 U. S. 421;
Tennessee v. Davis, 100 U. S. 257; New Orleans v. Benjamin,
153 U. S. 411;,McCain v. Des Moines, 174 U. S. 168; Defiance
Water Co. v. City of Defiance, 191 U. S. .184; Hooker v. Los
Angeles, 188 U. S. 314; Shoshone Min. Co. v. Rutter, 177 U. S.
505; Blackburn v. Gold Min. Co., 175 U. S. 571; Carson v.
Durham, 121 U. S. 421, Excelsior Wooden Pipe Co. v. Pacific
Bridge Co., 185 U. S. 282; Minnesota v. Northern Securities Co.,
194 U. S. 48; Western Union Tel. Co. v. Ann Arbor R. Co.,
179 U. S. 239; Equitable Life Assurance Co. v. Brown, 187 U. S.
3U8; New Orleans Water Works Co. v. Louisiana, 185 U. S. 336;
New Orleans v. Water Works Co., 142 U. S. 79; Hamblin v.
Western Land Co., 147 U. S. 531; St. Joseph &c. Co. v. Steele,
167 U. S. 659;.Wilson v. North Carolina, 169 U. S. 586.
The Circuit Court exceeded its power and authority in making its order.that the petitioner be enjoined as Attorney General from taking appropriate legal proceedings to compel the
railway companies to comply with the act of April
18, 1907.
Had the Eleventh Amendment never been adopted, this
suit against the Attorney General could not be maintained,
and'had he in the first instance fully submitted himself to the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, any order attempting to control the exercise of the executive discretion vested in him, would
be beyond the power and authority of the court.
It should not be assumed under the authority of Chisholm
v. Georgia, that in the absence of the Eleventh Amendment.

Ex parte YOUNG.
209 U. S.

.13.7

Argument for Petitioner.

a State would be subject to all suits. In that case, it was
claimed that the State was indebted to the complainant upon
a money demand. The political or governmental powers of
the State were in no way involved.
However, be this as it may, the decision in the Chisholm case
was based upon the positive language of the Constitution.
The Eleventh Amendment restored not only immunity of
the States from suit, but secured the same immunity to each
department of a State which under the Constitution thereof
was made independent of the judicial power.
The authority of the Attorney General to prosecute or defend a suit in which the State is concerned is necessarily inAplied from the nature of his office and he may bring an action
where the wrong or injury complained oi affects the public.
4 Cyc. 1028-1031; Hunt v. Ry. Co., 121 Illinois, 638; Orton v.
State, 12 Wisconsin, 567; Atty. Genl. v. Williams, 174 Massachusetts, 476; People v. Oakland, 118 California, 234; Atty. Genl.
v. Detroit, 26 Michigan, 262.
The Attorney General of Minnesota is, therefore, an executive officer of the State second to none in the character and
importance of his duties. The name and power of the State,
so far as their use in litigation is concerned, are confined to his
discretion, subject to control by no other officer, except in
certain cases not material here. State-v. Tracy, 48 Minnesota,
497.
Under the statutes of Minnesota, the Attorney General is
not required to institute criminal proceedings. except on the
request of the Governor. Criminal proceedings are in the first
instance instituted by the attorneys for the various counties,
who have the right, however, to call on the Attorney General
for assistance. But when any criminal case reaches the Supreme Court of the State, it comes into the exclusive charge
of the Attorney General. Therefore the izjunction issued in
the Circuit Court interferes with the administration of the
criminal laws of the State. Such interference is beyond the
power of a court of equity, except where the criminal case is

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Petitioner.

209 U. S.

instituted by a party to a suit already pending before it of
which it has jurisdiction to try the same question therein -involved. In re Sawyer., 124 U. S. 200.
TJhe suit in the Circuit Court against the Attorney General
was.,in effect a suit against the State of Minnesota.
The immunity of a State from suit, as provided by the
Eleventh Amendment, is not dependent upon any pecuniary
interest, as contended by respondents.
Where the decree of the court can operate only upon the
Staie and only to restrain the .action of the State, the suit, no
matter against whom it is brought, is in effect one against the
State and in such case the pecuniary interest -the State may
or may not have in the result of the litigation is immaterial.
Governor of Georgia v. Madrazo, 1 Pet. 110; United States
v. Beebe,, 127 U. S. 338;: Savings Bank v. United States, 19
Wall. 227; United States v. American Bell Telephone Co., 128
U. S. 315; United,.States v. American Bell Telephone Co., 159
U. S. 548; United States v. Telephone Co., 167 U. S. 224; Hans
v. Louisiana, 134 U. S.'19. Reagan Case, 154 U. S. 362 and M.,
K. & T. Ry. Co. v. Hickman, 183 U. S. 53, discussed and distinguished.
The Circuit Court was without jurisdiction under Fitts v.
McGhee,.172 U. S. 516, which cannot be distinguished, and to
sustain the suit in Minnesota, it must be shown that Fitts v.
McGhee has been or should be overruled.
The doctrine of that case, however, was in accordance with
the previous decisions of this court. Governnr. of Georgia v.
Madrazo, 1 Pet. 110; Board of Liquidationv. McComb, 92 U. S.
531; Pennoyer v. McConnaughy, 140 U. S. 1; In re Ayers, 123
U.'S. 443.
The doctrine established by these cases has become the
settled rule of decision. And see Cotting v. Godard, 183 U. S.
79. Davis & Farnum Mfg. Co. v. Los Angeles, 189 U. S. 207;
Barney v. State of New York, 193 U. S. 430; Gunter v. Atlanti. Coast Line R. R. Co., 200 U. S. 273; Farmers' Nat. Bank
v. Jones, 105 Fed. Rep. 459; Haverhill Gas Light Co. v. Parker,

Ex parte YOUNG.
209 U. S.

Argument for Respondent.

109 Fed. Rep. 694; Copper Co. v. Freer, Attorney General, 127
Fed. Rep. 199; Coneter v.Weir, 127 Fed. Rep. 897; Coulter v.
Fargo, 127 Fed. keRp. 912; Hitchesen v. Smith, 140 Fed. Rep.
983; Smith v. Alexander, 146 Fed. Rep. 106; Telegraph Co. v.
Anderson, 154 Fed. Rep. 95.
By leave of court, Mr. Edward B. Whitney filed a brief
herein as amicus curias, in_ support of petitioner's contentions
as to the Eleventh Amendment. With him on this brief was
Mr. Abel E. Blackmar.
. Mr. Charles W. Bunn, Mr. Jared How and Mr. J. F. McGee,
with whom Mr. Frank B. Kellogg, Mr. Cordenio A. Severance,
Mr. Robert E. Olds, Mr. Stiles W. Burr, Mi. Pierce Butler,
Mr. William D. Mitchell and Mr. William A. Lancaster were
on the briefs, for respondent:
The objections which petitioner makes against the validity
of the injunctional order are matters which cannot be inquired
into on writ of habeas corpus.
Where the contempt, the punishment for which is under
review in a habeas corpus proceeding, consists of the violation
of an order or decree of a court, the commitment will be sustained unless it is found that the order or decree disobeyed
was absolutely void because the court was wholly without
jurisdiction or power to make it. The proceeding being in the
nature of a collateral attack upon the order or judgment which
has been disobeyed, the inquiry is limited to the question of
jurisdiction. Ex parte Watkins, 3 Pet. 193; In re Coy, 127
U. S. 731, 757; In re Wilson, 140 U. S. 575, 583.
Among the very numerous cases which deal with this question the following-are most nearly in,'point: Ex parte Watkins,
3 Pet. 193; Ex parte Yarbrough; 110 U. S. 651; In re Coy, 127
U. S. 731, 756; In re Wilson, 140 U. S. 575, 582; In re Delgado, 140 U. S.586; In re Schneider, 148 U. S. 162; In re Frederich, 149 U. S.70, 76; In re Tyler, 149 U. S.164, 180; In re
Swan, 150 U. S. 637, 648; In re Chapman, 156 U. S. 211; In re
LDnnon,166 U. S. 548: In re McKenzie, 180 U. S. 536.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Respondent.

209 U. S.

That the injunctional order, for violation of which the petitioner was adjudged in contempt, was not void for want of
jurisdiction, and could not be ignored or disobeyed with impunity, as an absolute nullity, and is not subject to collateral
attack in any form of proceeding, see Illinois Central v. Adams,
180 U. S. 28.
As to what matters are open for review upon a writ of habeas
corpus is likewise a question of procedure; and the principles
invoked in the Adams case are equally applicable to either
question.
The case involves a Federal question sufficient to sustain
jurisdiction upon that ground alone.
The penalty provisions of the law attacked are violative
of the Fourteenth Amendment; as to this see Cotting v. Kansas City Stock Yards Company, 183 U. S. 79, 99-102; Consolidated Gas Company v. Mayer, 146 Fed. Rep. 150; Ex parte
Wood, 155 Fed. Rep. 190.
The rates fixed are confiscatory and the legislation is therefore unconstitutional and void under the Fourteenth Amendment. Hastings v. Ames, 68 Fed. Rep. 726.
Neither the suit itself, nor the injunction against petitioner
is within the prohibition of the Eleventh Amendment.
.The doctrine of Fitts v. McGhee, 172 U. S. 516, if held applicable to the facts of the present case, is not supported by
any other decision of this court, is inconsistent with the uniform current of authority, and has been overruled by later
decisions of this court: Davis & Farnum Mfg. Co. v. Los Angeles, 189 U. S. 207, 218; Dobbins v. Los Angeles, 195 U. S.
223, 241. Fitts v. McGhee is also inconsistent with the subsequent case of Prout v. Starr, 188 U. S. 537, and other still more
recent cases. The case of In re Ayers, 123 U. S. 443, is not in
point and does not support the doctrine of Fitts v. McGhee in
any direct sense.
The distinction between the case of In re Ayers and cases
like the case at bar has been clearly drawn by this court itself
in the case. of Pennoyer v. McConnaughy, 140 U. S. 1, 9, 10.

Ex parte YOUNG.
209 U. S.

Argument for Respondent.1

See also Reagan v. Farmers' Loan & Trus! Co., 154 U. S. 362;
Tindall v. Wesley, 167 U. S. 204; Starr v. C., R. I. & P. Ry.,
110 Fed. Rep. 3.
The same principle of distinction is applied,, in varying language and with greater or less explicitness, in a number of
other cases decided since the Ayers case, among which are:.
In re Tyler, 149 U. S. 164; Scottv. Donald, 165 U. S. 107; Smith
v. Reeves, 178 U. S. 436; C. & N. W. Ry. v. Dey (Brewer, J.),
35 Fed. Rep. 866.
The following cases deal with a state of facts like that in
the case at bar and are squarely in conflict with Fitts v. McGhee, supra; in*the view of that case which makes it applicable
to the present situation. Reagan v. Farmers'Loan & Trust Co.,
154 U. S. 362; Smyth v.'Ames, 169 U. S. 466; Prout v. Starr,
188 U. S. 537; Gunter v. Atlantic Coast Line, 200 U. S. 273,
284; Miss. R. R. Comm. v. Illinois Centr'zl, 203 U. S. 335, 340.
If Fitts v. McGhee can be held applicable to the present case,
then that decision is unsound in principle and ought to be
overruled upon the ground that the Eleventh, Amendment
should not be given a construction which would tend to impair
the full efficacy of the protecting clauses of the Yourteenth
Amendment.
It has become the aim of some legislatures to frame their
enactments with such cunning adroitness, and to hedge them
about with such savage and drastic penalties, as to make it
impossible to test the validity of such statutes in the courts
save at a risk no prudent man would dare to assume. An apt
comment upon this tendency, and upon the character of such
legislation,. appears in the opinion by Mr. Justice Brewer in.
Cotting v. Kansas City Stock Yards Company, 183 U. S- 79,
99-102.
There is but one effective protection against, such, legisla-.
tion-the power that may be exercised by courts of equity,
and especially by the Circuit Courts of the United States.
If it shall beheld that a state statute may be so adroitly framed
that the Eleventh Amendment will bar-any suit in the Federal

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

courts of equity jurisdiction, then no corporation nor individual will dare assume the risk of the savage punishments
which may be inflicted under such acts, and legislation which
flagrantly violates the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment will be made operative for all practical purposes.
By leave of court, Mr. Walker D. Hines filed a brief herein
in behalf of the Southern Railway Company, in support of
the contentions of the respondent.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court..

We recognize and appreciate'to the fullest extent the very
great importance of this case, not only to tie parties now before the court, but also to the great mass of the citizens of
this country, all of whom are interested in the practical working of the courts of justice throughout the land, both Federal
and state, and in the proper exercise of the jurisdiction of the
Federal courts, .as limited and controlled by the Federal Constitution and the laws of Congress.
That there has been room for difference of opinion with regard to such limitations the reported cases in this court bear
conclusive testimony. It cannot be stated that the case before us is entirely free from any possible doubt nor that intelligent men may not differ as to the correct answer to the
question we are called upon to decide.
The question of jurisdiction, whether of the Circuit Court
or of this court, is frequently a delicate matter to deal with,
and it is especially so in this case, where the material and most
important objection to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court is
the assertion that the suit is in effect against one of the States
of the Union. It is a question, however, which we are called
upon, and which it is our duty, to decide. Under these circumstances, the language of Chief Justice Marshall in Cohens v.
Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264, 404, is most apposite. In that case
he said:

Ex parte YOUNG.
" 209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"It is most true that this court will not take jurisdiction
if it should not; but it is equally true that it must take juris'diction if it should. The judiciary cannot, as the legislature
may, avoid a measure because it approaches the confines of
the Constitution. We cannot pass it by because it is doubtful.
With whatever doubts, with whatever difficulties, a case may
be attended, we must decide it, if it be brought before us. We
have no more right to decline the exercise of jurisdiction which
is given, than to usurp that which is not given. The one or
the other would be treason to the Constitution. Questions
may occur which we would gladly avoid, but we cannot avoid
them. All we can do is to exercise our best judgment, and
conscientiously perform our duty."
Coming to a consideration of the case, we find that the complainants in the suit commenced in the Circuit Court were
stockholders in the Northern Pacific Railway Company, and
the reason for commencing it and making the railroad company one of the parties defendant is sufficiently set forth in
the bill. Davis &c. Co. v. Los Angeles, 189 U. S. 20?, 220;
Equity Rule 94, Supreme Court.
It is primarily asserted on the part of the petitioner that
jurisdiction did not exist in the Circuit Court because there
was not the requisite diversity of citizenship, and there was
no question arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States to otherwise give jurisdiction to that court. There
is no claim made here of jurisdiction on the ground of diversity of citizenship, and the claim, if made, would be unfounded
in fact. If no other ground exists, then the order of the Circuit Court, assuming to punish petitioner for contempt, was
an unlawful order, made by a court without jurisdiction. In
such case this court, upon proper application, will discharge
the person from imprisonment. Ex parte Yarbrough, 110 U. S.
651; Ex parte Fisk, 113 U. S. 713; In re Ayers, 123 U. S. 443,
485. But an examination of the record before us shows that
there are Federal questions in this case.
It is insisted by the petitioner that there is no Federal ques-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

ton presented under the Fourteenth Amendment, because
there is no dispute as to the meaning of the ConstiWtion, where.
it Provides that no State shall deprive any person of life,
liberty or propertywithout due process of law; nor deny to
any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the
laws, and whatever dispute there may be in this case is one
of fact simply, whether the freight or passenger rates as fixed
by the legislature or by the railroad commission are so low as
to be confiscatory, and thatis not a Federal question.
Jurisdiction is given .to the Circuit .Court in suits involving
the requisite amount, arising under the Constitution or laws
of the United States (1 U. S. Comp: Stat. p. 508), and the ques-'
tion really to be determined under this objection is whether
'the acts of the legislature and the orders of the railroad commission,- if enforced, would take property without due process
of law, and although that question might incidentally involve
a question of fact. its solution nevertheless is one which raises
a Federal question. See H4stings v. "Ames (C. C. A. 8th Circuit);68 Fed. Rep. 726." The sufficiency of rates with ref'erence to the Federal. Constitution is a judicial question, and
one oyer which Federal courts have. jurisdiction by reason of
its Federal nature. Chicago &c. R. R. Co. v.,Min.ota 134
U. S. 418;. Reagan v. Farmers' &c. Co.; 154 U. S. 369, 399;
St. Louis &c. Cb. v. Gil, 156 U. S. 649; Covington &c. Turnpike Road Company v. Sandford, 164 U. S. 578; Sf'nyth v. Ames,
169 U. S. 466, 522; Chicago &c. Railway Co. v. Tompkins, 176
U. S. 167,,172.
-nother.iFederal
A
question is the alleged unconstitutionality
of these acts because of the enormous penalties denounced for
their. violation, which prevent the railway company, as al*leged, or any of its servants or employ0s, from resorting to
the courts for the purpose of determining the validity of such
acts. The contentiQn is urged by the complainants in the
suit that the company is denied the equal protection of the
laws and its property is. liable to be taken without due process
f law, because -it is only allowed a hearing upon the claim of

Ex parte YOUNG.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the unconstitutionality of the acts and orders in question, at
the risk, if mistaken, of being subjected to such enormous penalties, resulting in the possible confiscation of its whole property, that rather than take such risks, the company would
obey the laws, although such obedience might also result in
the end (though by a slower process) in such confiscation.
Still another Federal question is urged, growing out of the
assertion that the laws are, by their necessary effect, an interference with and a regulation of interstate commerce, the
grounds for which assertion it is not now necessary to enlarge
upon. The question is not, at any rate, frivolous.
We conclude that the Circuit Court had jurisdiction in the
case before it, because it involved the decision of Federal
questions arising under the Constitution of the United States.
Coming to the inquiry regarding the alleged invalidity of
these acts, we take up the contention that they are invalid
on their face on account of the penalties. For disobedience
to the freight act the officers, directors, agents and employ6s
of the company are made guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon
cohviction each may be punished by imprisonment in the
county jail for a period not exceeding ninety days. Each
violation would be a separate offense, and, therefore, might
result in imprisonment of the various agents of the company
who would dare disobey for a term of ninety days each for each
offense. Disobedience to the passenger rate act renders the
party guilty of a felony and subject to a fine not exceeding
five thousand dollars or imprisonment in the state prison for
a period not exceeding five years, or both fine and imprisonment. The sale of each ticket above the price permitted by
the act would be a violation thereof. It would-be difficult,
if not impossible, for the company to obtain officers, agents or
employ~s willing to carry on its affairs except in obedience
to the act and orders in question. The company itself would
also, in case of disobedience, be liable to the immense fines
provided for in violating orders of the Commission. The company, in order to test the validity of the acts, must find some
VOL. CCIX-10

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

agent or employ6 to disobey them at the risk stated. The
necessary effect and result of such legislation must be to preclude a resort to the courts (either state or Federal) for the
purpose of testing its validity. The officers and employds.
could not be expected to disobey any of the provisions of the
acts or orders at the risk of such fines and penalties being imposed upon them, in case the court should decide that the law
was valid. The result would be a denial of any hearing to the
company. The observations upon a similar question made
by Mr. Justice Brewer in Cotting v. Kansas City Stock Yards
Company, 183 U. S. 79, 99, 100, 102, ake very apt. At page 100
he stated: "Do the laws secure to an individual an equal protection when he is allowed to come ito court and make his
claim or defense subject to the condition that upon a failure
to make good that claim or/defense the penalty for such
failure either appropriates all his property or subjects him
to extravagant and unreasonable loss?" Again, at page 102,
he says: "It is doubtless true that the State may impose
penalties, such as will tend to compel obedience to its mandates by all, individuals or corporations, and if extreme and
cumulative penalties are imposed only after there has; been a
final determination of the validity of the statute, the question
would be very different from that here presented. But, when
the legislature, in an .effort to prevent any inquiry of the
validity of a particular statute, so burdens any challenge
thereof in the courts that,,the party affected is necessarily
constrained to submit rather than take the chances of the
penalties imposed, then it becomes a serious question whether
the party is not deprived of the equal protection .ofthe laws."
The question was not decided in that case, as it went off on
another ground. We hgve the same question now before us,
only the penalties are more severe in the way of fines, to which
is added, in the case of officers, agents or employ6s of the
company, the risk of imprisonment for years as a common
felon. See also Mercantile Trust Co. v. Texas &c. Ry. Co., 51
Fed. Rep. 529, 543; Louisville &c. R. R. Co.' v. McChord, 103

Ex parte YOUNG.
209 U. S.'

Opinion of the Court.

Fed. Rep. 216, 223; Consolidated Gas Co. v. Mayer, 146 Fed.
Rep. 150, 153. In McGahey v. Virginia, 135 U. S. 662, 694,
it was held that: to provide a different remedy to enforce a
contract, which is unreasonable, and which imposes conditions
not existing when the contract was made, was to offer'no
remedy, and when the remedy is so onerous and impracticable
as to substantially give none at all the law is invalid, although
what is termed a remedy is in fact iven. See also Bronson v.
Kinzie, 1 How. 311, 317; Seibert v. Lewis, 122 U. S. 284.! If
the law be such as to make the decision of the legislature or
of a commission conclusive as to the sufficiency of the rates,
this court has held such a law to be unconstitutional. Chicago
&c. Railway Co. v. Minnesota, 134 U. S.'418. A law which
indirectly accomplishes a like result by imposing such conditions upon the right to appeal for judicial relief, as works an
abandonment of the right rather than face the conditions ,upon
which it is offered or may be obtained, is also unconstitutional.
It may therefore be said that when the penalties for disobedience are by fines so enormous and imprisonment so severe
as to intimidate the company and its officers from r'esorting
to the courts to test the validity of the legislation, the result
is the same as if the law in terms prohibited the company
from seeking judicial construction of laws w~iich'deeply affect.
its rights.
It is urged that there is no principle upon which to base the
claim that a person is entitled to disobey a statute at least
once, for the purpose of testing its validity without subjecting
himself to the penalties for disobedience provided by the statute in case it is valid. This is not, an accurate statement
of the case. Ordinarily a law creating offenses in the nature
of misdemeanors or felonies relates to a subject over which
the jurisdiction of the legislature is complete in any event.
in the case, however, of the establishment of certain rates
without any hearing, the validity of such rates necessarily
depends upon whether they are high enough to permit at least
some return upon the investment (how much it is not now

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of. the Court.

209 U. S.

necessary to state), and an inquiry as to that fact is a proper
subject of judicial investigation. If it turns out that the
rates are too low for that purpose, then they are illegal. Now,
to impose upon a party interested the burden of obtaining a
judicial decision of such a question (no prior hearing having
ever been given) only upon the condition that if unsuccessful
he must suffer imprisonment and pay fines as provided in
these acts, is, in effect, to close up all approaches to the courts,
and thus prevent any hearing upon the question whether the
rates as provided by the acts are not too low, and therefore
invalid. The distinction is obvious between a case where the
validity of the act depends upon the existence of a fact which
can be determined only after investigation of a very complicated and technical character, and the ordinary case of a statute upon a subject requiring no such investigation and over
which the jurisdiction of the legislature is complete in any
event.
We hold, therefore, that the provisions of the acts relating
to the enforcement of the rates, either for freight or passengers,
by imposing such enormous fines and possible imprisonment
as a result of an unsuccessful effort to test the validity of the
laws themselves, are unconstitutional on their face, without
regard to the question of the insufficiency of those rates. We
also hold that the Circuit Court had jurisdiction under the
cases already cited (and it was therefore its duty) to inquire
whether the rates permitted by these acts or orders were too
low and therefore confiscatory, and if so held, that the court
then had jurisdiction to permanently enjoin the railroad company from putting them in force, and that it also had power,
while the inquiry was pending, to grant a temporary injunction to the same effect.
Various affidavits were received upon the hearing before
the court prior to the granting of the temporary injunction,
and the hearing itself was, as appears from the opinion, full
and deliberate, and the fact was found that the rates fixed by
the commodity act, under the circumstances existing with

Ex parte YOUNG.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

reference to the passenger rate act and the orders of the Commission, were not sufficient to be compensatory, and were in
fact confiscatory, and the act was therefore unconstitutional.
The injunction was thereupon granted with reference to the
enforcement of the commodity act.
We have, therefore, upon this record the case of an unconstitutional act of the state legislature and an intention by the
Attorney General of the State to endeavor to enforce its provisions, to the injury of the company, in compelling it, at great
expense, to defend legal proceedings of a complicated and unusual character, and involving questions of vast importance
to all employ~s and officers of the company, as well as to the
company itself. The question that arises is whether there is
a remedy that the parties interested may resort to, by going
into a Federal court of equity, in a case involving a violation
of the Federal Constitution, and obtaining a judicial investigation of the problem, and pending its solution obtain freedom from suits, civil or criminal, by a temporary injunction,
and if the question be finally decided favorably to the contention of the company, a permanent injunction restraining
all such actions or proceedings.
This inquiry necessitates an examination of the most material and important objection made to the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court, the objection being that the suit is, in effect,
one against the State of Minnesota, and that the injunction
issued against the Attorney General illegally prohibits state
action, either criminal or civil, to enforce obedience to thestatutes of the State. This objection is to be considered with
reference to the Eleventh and Fourteenth Amendments to the
Federal Constitution. The Eleventh Amendment prohibits
the commencement or prosecution of any suit against one of
the United States by citizens of another State or citizens or
subjects of any foreign State. The Fourteenth Amendment provides that no State shall deprive any person of life, liberty or
property without due process of law, nor shall it deny to any
person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.

150

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

The case before the, Circuit Court proceeded 1upon the
theory that the orders -and acts heretofore mentioned would,
if enforced, violate rights df the complainants protected by
the latter Amendment. We think that whatever the rights
of complainants may be, -they are largely founded upon that.
Amendment, but a decision of this case does not require an
examination or decision',of'the, question whether its adoption
in any way altered or limited the effect of the earlier Amendment. We may assume that each exists in full force, and that
we must give to the Eleventh Amendment all the. effect it
naturally would have, without cutting it down or rendering
its meaning any more narrow than the language, fairly interpreted, would warrant. It applies to a suit brought against
a State by one of its own citizens as well as to a suit brought
by a citizen of another State. Hans v. Louisiana, 134 U. S. 1.
It was- adopted after the decision of this court. in Chisholm v. Georgia (1793), 2 Dall. 419 where it was held that a
State might be sued by a citizen of another State. Since that
time there have been many cases decided in this court involving the Eleventh Amendment, among them being Osborn v.
United States Bank (1824), 9 Wheat. 738, 846, 857, which .held
that the Amendment applied only to those suits in which the
State was a party on the record. In the subsequent case of
Governor of Georgia v. Madrazo (1828), 1 Pet. 110, 122, 123,
that holding was somewhat enlarged, and Chief Justice Marshall, delivering the opinion of the court, while citing Osborn v.
United States Bank, supra, said that where the claim was made,
as in the case then before the court, against the Governor of
Georgia as governor, and the demand was made upon him,
not personally, but officially (for moneys in the treasupy of
the State and for slaves in possession of the state government),
the State might be considered as the party on the record
(page 123), and therefore the suit could not be maintained.
Davis v. Gray, 16 Wall. 203, 220, reiterates the rule of Osborn v. United States Bank, so far as concerns the right tQ enjoin a state officer from executing a state law in conflict with

Ez parte YOUNG.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the Constitution or a statute of the United States, when such
execution will violate the rights of the complainant.
In Virginia Coupon Cases, 114 U. S. 270, 296 (Poindexter v.
Greenhow), it was adjudged that a suit against a tax collector
who had refused coupons in payment of taxes, and, under
color of a void law, was about to seize and sell the property
of a taxpayer for non-payment of his taxes, was a suit against
'him personally as a wrongdoer and not against the State.
Hagood v. Southern, 117 U. . 52, 67, decided that the bill
was in substance a bill for the specific performance of a contract between the complainants, and the State of South Carolina, and, although the State was not in name made a party
defendant, yet being the actual party to the alleged contract
the performance of which was sought and the only party by
whom it could be performed, the State was, in effect, a party
to the suit, and it could not be maintained for that reason.
The things required to be done by the actual defendants were
the very things which when done would constitute a performance of the alleged contract by the State.
The cases upon the subject were reviewed, and it was held,
In re Ayers, 123 U. S. 443, that a bill in equity brought against
officers of a State, who, as individuals, have no personal interest in the subject-matter of the suit, and defend only as
representing the State, where the relief prayed for, if done,
would constitute a performance by the State of the alleged
contract of the State, was a suit against the State (page 504),
following in this respect Hagood v. Southern, supra.
A suit of such a nature was simply an attempt to make the
State itself, through its officers, perform its alleged contract,
by directing those officers to do acts which constituted such
performance. The State alone had any interest in the question, and a decree in favor of plaintiff would affect the treasury
of the State.
On the other hand, United States v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196, determined that an individual in possession of real estate under
the. Government of the United States, which claimed to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

its owner, was, nevertheless, properly sued by the plaintiff,
as owner, to, recover possession, -and such suit was not one
against the United States, although the individual in possession justified such possession under its authority. See also
Tindal v. Wesley, 167 U. S.204, to the same effect.
In Pennoyer v. McCoinaughy, 140 U. S.1, 9, a suit against
land commissioners of the State was said not to be against the
State, although the complainants sought to restrain the defendants, officials of the State, from violating, under an unconstitutional act, the complainants' contract with the State,
and thereby working irreparable damage to the property
rights of the complainants. Osborn v. United States Bank,
supra, was cited, and it was stated: "But the general doctrine
of Osborn v. Bank of the United States, that the Circuit Courts
of the United States will restrain a state officer from executing
an unconstitutional statute of the State, when to execute it
would violate rights and privileges of the conplainant which
had been guaranteed by the Constitution, and would work
irreparable damage and injury to him, has never been departed
from. The same principle is decided in Scott v. Donald, 165
U. S. 58, 67. And see Missouri &c. v. Missouri Railroad
Commissioners, 183 U. S.53.
The cases above cited do not include one exactly like this
under discussion. They serve to illustrate the principles upon
which many cases have been decided. We have not cited all
the cases, . as we have not thought it necessary. But the injunction asked for in the Ayers Case, 123 U. S. (supra), was to
restrain the state officers from commencing suits under the
act of May 12, 1887 (alleged to be unconstitutional), in the
name of the State and brought to recover taxes for its use, on
the ground that if such suits were commenced they would be
a breach of a contract with the State. The injunction was
declared illegal because the suit itself could not be entertained
as it was one against the State to enforce its alleged contract.
It was said, however, that if the court had power to entertain
such a suit, it would have power to grant the restraining order

Ex parte YOUNG.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

preventing the commencement of suits. (Page 487.) It was
not stated that the suit or the injunction was necessarily confined to a case of a threatened direct trespass upon or injury
to property.
Whether the commencement of a suit could ever be regarded
as an actionable injury to another, equivalent in some cases
to a trespass such as is set forth in some of the foregoing cases,
has received attention in the rate cases, so called. Reagan v.
Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362 (a rate case); was
a suit against the members of a railroad commission (created
under an act of the State of Texas) and the Attorney General,
all of whom were held suable, and that such suit was not one
against the State. The Commission was enjoined from enforcing the rates it had established under the act, and the
Attorney General was enjoined from instituting suits to recover penalties for failing to conform to the rates fixed by the
Commission under such act. 'It is true the statute in that
case creating the board provided that suit might be maintained by any dissatisfied railroad company, or other party
in interest, in a court of competent jurisdiction in Travis
County, Texas, against the Commission as defendant. This
court held that such language permitted a suit in the United
States Circuit Court for the Western District of Texas, which
embraced Travis County, but it also held that, irrespective
of that consent, the suit was not in effect a suit against the
State (although the Attorney General was enjoined), and therefore not prohibited under the amendment. It was said in the
opinion, which was delivered by Mr. Justice Brewer, that the
suit could not in any fair sense be considered a suit against
the State (page 392), and the conclusion of the court was that
the objection to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was not
tenable, whether that jurisdiction was rested (page 393),
"upon the provisions of the statute or upon the general jurisdiction of the court existing by virtue of the statutes of Congress
and the sanction of the Constitution of the United States."
Eachr of these grounds is effective and both are of equal force.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209.U. S.

Union Pacific &c. v. Mason City Company, 199 U. S. 160,
166.
In Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466 (another rate case), it was
again held that a suit against individuals, for the purpose of
preventing them, as officers of the State, from enforcing, by
the commencement of suits or by indictment, an unconstitutional enactment to the injury of the rights of the plaintiff, was
not a suit against a State. within the meaning of the Amendment. At page 518, in answer to the objection that the suit
was really against the State, it was said: "It is the settled doctrine of this court that a suit against individuals for the purpose of preventing them as officers of a State from enforcing
an unconstitutional enactment -to the injury of the rights of
the plaintiff, is not a suit against the State within the meaning
of that Amendment." The suit was to enjoin the enforcement
of a statute of Nebraska because it was alleged to be unconstitutional, on account of the rates being too low to afford
some compensation to the company, and contrary, therefore,
to the Fourteenth Amendment.
There was no special provision in the statute as to rates,
making it the duty of the Attorney General to enforce it, but
under his general powers he had authority to ask for a mandamus to enforce such or any other law. State of Nebraska ex
rel. &c. v. The Fremont &c. Railroad Co., 22 Nebraska, 313.
The final decree enjoined the Attorney General from bringing any suit (page 477) by way of injunction, mandamus, civil
action or indictment, for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of the act. The fifth section of the act provided that
an action might be brought by a railroad company in the Supreme Court of the State of Nebraska; but this court did not
base its decision on that section when it held that a suit of
the nature of that before it was not a suit against a State,
although brought against individual state officers for the purpose of enjoining -them from enforcing, either by civil proceeding or indictment, an unconstitutional enactment to the
injury of the plaintiff's right. (Page 518.)

Ex parte YOUNG.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Couit.

This decision was reaffirmed in Proutv. Starr, 188 U. S. 537,
542.
Attention is also directed to the case of Missouri &c. Rwy.
Co. v. Missouri R. R. &c. Commissioners, 183 U. S. 53. That
was a suit brought in a state court of Missouri by the railroad
commissioners of the State, who had the powers granted them
by the statutes set forth in the report. Their suit was against
the railway company to compel it to discontinue certain
charges it was making for crossing the Boonville bridge over
the Missouri river. The defendant sought to remove the case
to the Federal court, which the plaintiffs resisted, and the
state court refused to remove on the ground that the real plaintiff was the State of Missouri, and it was proper to go behind
the face of the record to determine that fact. In regular
manner the case came here, and this court held that the State
was not the real party plaintiff, and the case had therefore
been properly removed from. the state court, whose judgment
was thereupon reversed.
Applying the same principles of construction to the removal
act which had been applied to the Eleventh Amendment, it
was said by this court that the State might be the real party
plaintiff when the relief sought enures to it alone, and in whosefavor the judgment or- decree, if for the plaintiff, will effectively operate.
Althoug& the case is one arising under the removal act and
does not involve the Eleventh Amendment, it nevertheless
illustrates the question now before us, and reiterates the doetrine that the State is not a party to a suit simply because the
State Railroad Cbhrmission is such party.
The doctrine of Smyth v. Ames is also referred to and reiterated in Gunter, Attorney General, v. Atlantic &c. Railroad
Co., 200 U. S 273, 283. See also McNeill v. Southern Railway, 202 U. S. 543-559; Mississippi Railroad Commission v.
Illinois &c. Railroad Co., 203 U. S. 335, 340.
The various authorities we have referred to furnish ample
justification for the assertion that individuals, who, as officers

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

of the State, are clothed with some duty in regard to the enforcement of the laws of the State, and who threaten and are
about to commence proceedings, either of a civil or criminal
nature, to enforce against parties affected an unconstitutional
act, violating the 'Federal Constitution, may be enjoined by a.
Federal court of equity from such action.
It is objected, however, that Fitts v. McGhee, 172 U. S. 516,
has somewhat limited this principle, and that, upon the authority of that case, it must be held that the State was a party
to the suit in the United States Circuit Court, and the bill
should have been dismissed as to the Attorney General on that
ground.
We do not think such contention is well founded. The doctrine of Smyth v. Ames was neither overruled nor doubted in
the Fitts case. In that case the Alabama legislature, by the
act of 1895, fixed the tolls to be charged for crossing the bridge.
The penalties for disobeying that act, by demanding and receiving higher tolls, were to be collected by the persons paying them., No officer of the State had any Official connection
with the recovery of such penalties. The indictments mentioned were found under another state statute, set forth at
page 520 of the report of the case, which provided a fine
against an officer of a company for taking any greater rate of
toll than was authorized by its charter, or, if the charter did
not specify the amount, then the fine was imposed for charging any unreasonable toll, to be determined by a jury. This
act was not claimed to be unconstitutional, and the indictments found under it were not necessarily connected with the
alleged unconstitutional act fixing the tolls. As no state officer
who was made a party bore any close official connection with
the act fixing the tolls, the making of such officer a party defendant was a simple effort to test the constitutiorality of
such act in that way, and there is no principle upon which it
could be done. A state superintendent of schools might as
well have been made a party. In the light of this fact it was
said in the opinion (page 530):

Ex parte YOUNG.
20 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"In the present case, as we have said, neither of the State
officers named held any special relation to the particular statute alleged to be unconstitutional. They were not expressly
directed to see to its enforcement. If, because they were law
officers of the State, a case could be made for the purpose of
testing the constitutionality of the statute, by an injunction
suit brought against them, then the constitutionality of every
act passed by the legislature could be tested by a suit against
the governor and the attorney general, based upon the theory
that the former, as the executive of the State was, in a general
sense, charged with the execution of all its laws, and the latter,
as attorney general, might represent the State in litigation involving the enforcement of its statutes. That would be a very
convenient way for obtaining a speedy judicial determination
of questions of constitutional law which may be raised by individuals, but it is a mode which cannot be applied to the
States of the Union consistently with the fundamental principle that they cannot, without their assent, be brought into
any-court at the suit of private persons."
In making an officer of the.State a party defendant in a suit
to enjoin the enforcement of an act alleged to be unconstitutional 'it is plain that such officer must have some connection
with the enforcement of the act, or else it is merely making
him. a party as a representative of the State, and thereby attempting to make the State a party.
It has .not, however, been held that it was necessary that
such duty should be declared in the same act which is to be
enforced. In some cases, it is true, the duty of enforcement
has been so imposed (154 U.. S. 362, 366, ยง 19 of the act), but
that may possibly make the d.ty more clear; if it otherwise exist it is -equally efficacious. The fact that the state officer by
virtue of his office has some connection with the enforcement
of. the act is the importarit and material fact, and whether it
arises out of the general law, or is specially created by the act
itself, is not material so long as it exists.
In the course of the opinion in the Fitts case the Reagan and

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

Smyth cases were referred to (with others) as instances of state
officers specially charged with the execution of a state enactment alleged to be unconstitutional, and who commit under
its authority some specific wrong or trespass to the injury of
plaintiff's rights. In those cases the only wrong or injury or
trespass involved was the threatened commencement of suits
to enforce the statute as to rates, and the threat of such commencement was in each case regarded as sufficient to authorize
the issuing of an injunction to prevent the same. The threat
to commence those suits under such circumstances was therefore necessarily held to be equivalent to any other threatened
Wrong or injury to the property of a plaintiff which had theretofore been held sufficient to authorize the suit against the
officer. The being specially charged with the duty to enforce
the statute is sufficiently apparent when such duty exists
under the general authority of some law, even though such authority is not to be found in the particular act. It might exist
by reason of the general duties of the officer to enforce it as a
law of the State.
The officers in the Fitts case occupied the position of having
no duty at all with regard to the act, and could not be properly
made parties to the suit for the reason stated.
It is also objected that as the statute does not specifically
make it the duty of the Attorney General (assuming he has
that general right) to enforce it, he has under such circumstances a full general discretion whether to attempt its enforcement or not, and the court cannot interfere to control him as
Attorney General in the exercise of his discretion.
In our view there is no interference with his discretion under
the facts herein. There is no doubt that the court cannot
control the exercise of the discretion of an officer. It can only
direct affirmative action where the officer having some duty to
perform not involving discretion, but merely ministerial in its nature, refuses or neglects to take such action. In that case the
court can direct the defendant to perform this merely ministerial duty. Board of Liquidation v. McComnb, 92 U. S. 531, 541.

Ex parte YOUNG.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The general discretion regarding the enforcement of the laws
when and as he deems appropriate is not interfered with by
an injunction which restrains the state officer from taking
any steps towards the enforcement of an unconstitutional
enactment to the injury of complainant. In such case no
affirmative action of any nature is directed, and the officer is
simply prohibited from doing an act which he had no legal
right to do. An injunction to prevent him from doing that
which he has no legal right to do is not an interference with
the discretion of an officer.
It is-also argued that the only proceeding which the Attorney
General could take to enforce the statute, so far as his office
is concerned, was one by mandamus, which would be commenced by the State in its sovereign and governmental character, and that the right to bring such action is a necessary
attribute of a sovereign government. It is contended that
the complainants do not complain and they care nothing about
any action which Mr. Young might take or bring as an ordinary
individual, but that he was complained of as an officer, to
whose discretion is confided the use of the name of the State
of Minnesota so far as litigation is concerned, and that when
or how he shall use it is a matter resting in his discretion and
cannot be controlled by any court.
The answer to all this is the same as made in every case
where an official claims to be acting under the authority of
the State. The act to be enforced is alleged to be unconstitutional, and if it be so, the use of the name of the State to
enforce an unconstitutional act to the injury of complainants
is a proceeding without the authority of and one which does
not affect the State in its sovereign or governmental capacity.
It is simply an illegal act upon the part of a state official in
attempting by the use of the name of the State to enforce a
legislative enactment which is void because unconstitutional.
If. the act which the state Attorney General seeks to enforce
be a violation of the Federal Constitution, the officer in proceeding under such enactment comes into conflict with the

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

superior authority of that Constitution, and he is in that case
stripped of his official or representative character and is subjected in his person to the consequences of his individual
conduct. The State has no power to impart to him any immunity from responsibility to the supreme authority of the
United States. See In re Ayers, supra, page 507. It would
be an injury to complainant to harass- it with a multiplicity
of suits or litigation generally in an endeavor to enforce penalties under an unconstitutional enactment, and to prevent
it ought to be within the jurisdiction of a court of equity. If
the question of .unconstitutionality with reference, at least,
to the Federal Constitution be first raised -in a Federal court
that court, as we think is shown by the authorities cited hereafter, has the right to decide it to the exclusion of all other
courts.
The question remains whether the Attorney General had,
by the law of the State, so far as concerns these rate acts, any
duty with regard to the enforcement of the same. By his
official conduct it seems that he regarded it as a duty connected with his office to compel the company to obey the commodity act, for he commenced proceedings to enforce such
obedience immediately after the injunction, issued, at the risk
of being found guilty of contempt by so doing.
The duties of the Attorney General, as decided by the Supreme Court of the State of Minnesota, are created partly by
statute and exist partly as at common law. State ex rel. Young,
Attorney General, v. Robinson (decided June 7, 1907), .112
N. W..Rep. 269. In the above-cited case,it was held that the
Attorney General might institute, conduct and maintain all
suits and proceedings he might deem necessary for the enforcement of the laws of the' State, the preservation of order and
the protection, of public rights, and that there were no statutory restrictions in that State limiting the duties of the.Attorney General in such case,
Section 3 .of chapter 227 of the General Laws of Minnesota,
1905 (same law, t 58, Revised Laws of Minnesota., 1905),

Ex parte YOUNG.
209 U. S.

.161

Opinion of the Court.

imposes the duty upon the Attorney General to cause proceedings to be instituted against any corporation whenever
it shall have offended against the laws of the State. By ยง 1960
of the Revised Laws of 1905 it is also provided that the Atto:ney General shall be ex officio attorney for the railroad commission and it is made his duty to institute and prosecute all
actions which the Commission shall order brought, and shall
render the commissioners all counsel and advice necessary for
the proper performance of their duties.
It is said that the Attorney General is only bound to act
when the Commission orders action to be brought, and that
ยง 5 of the commodity act (April 18, 1907) expressly provides
that no duty shall rest upon the Commission to enforce the act,
and hence no duty other than that which is discretionary rests
upon the Attorney General in that matter. The provision is
somewhat unusual, but the reasons for its insertion in that
act are not material, and neither require nor justify comment
by this court.
It would seem to be clear that the Attorney General, under
his power existing at common law and by virtue of these
various statutes, had a general duty imposed upon him, which
includes the right and the power to enforce the statutes of
the State, including, of course, the act in question, if it were
constitutional. His power by virtue of his office sufficiently
.connected him with the duty of enforcement to make him a
proper party to a suit of the nature of the one now before the
United States Circuit Court.
It is further objected (and the objection really forms part
of the contention that the State cannot be sued) that -a courtof equity has no jurisdiction to enjoin criminal proceedings,
by indictment or otherwise, under the state law. This, as a
general rule, is true. But there are eiceptions. When such
indictment or proceeding is brought to enforce an alleged unconstitutional statute, which is the subject matter of inquiry
in a suit already pending in a Federal court, the latter court
having first obtained jurisdiction over the subject matter, has
VOL. CCIX-1 I

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

the right, in both civil and criminal cases, to hold and maintain such jurisdiction, to the exclusion of all other courts, until
its duty is fully performed. Prout v. Starr, 188 U. S. 537, 544.
But the Federal court cannot, of course, interfere in a case
where the proceedings were already peiding in a state court.
Taylor v. Taintor, 16 Wall. 366, 370; Harraderv. Wadley,
172 U. S. 148.
Where one commences a criminal -proceeding who is already
party to a suit then pending in a court of equity, if the criminal
proceedings are brought to enforce the same right that, is in
issue before that court, the latter may enjoin such criminal
proceedings. Davis &c. Co. v. Los Angeles, 189 U. S. 207.
In Dobbiris v. Los Angeles, 195 U. S. 223-241, it is remarked
by Mr. Justice Day, in delivering the bpinion of the court,
that "it is Well settled that where property rights, will be destroyed, unlawful interference by criminal proceedings under
a void law or ordinance may be reached and controlled by a
court of equity." Smyth v. Ames (supra) distinctly enjoined
the proceedings by indictment to compel -bedience to the
rate act.
These cases show that a court of equity is not always precluded from granting an injunction to stay proceedings in
criminal cases, and we have no doubt the principle applies in
a case such as the present. In re Sawyer, 124 U. S. 200, 211,
is not to the contrary. That case holds that in general a court
of equity has no jurisdiction of a bill to stay criminal proceedings, but it expressly states an exception, "unless they are
instituted by a party to the suit already pending before it and
-to try the same right that is in issue there?' Various authorities are cited to sustain the exception. The criminal proceedings here that could be commenced by the state authorities wouldbe under the statutes relating to passenger or freight
rates, and their validity is the very question involved in the.
suit in the United States Circuit Court. The right to testrain
proceedings by mandamus is.
based upon the same foundation
and governed by the same principles.

Ex parte YOUNG.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

it is proper to add that the right to enjoin an individual, even
though a state official, from commencing suits under circumstances already stated, does not include the power to restrain
a court from acting in any case brought before it, either of a
civil or criminal nature, nor does it include power to prevent
any investigation or action by a grand jury. The latter body
is part of the machinery of a criminal court, and an injunction
against a state court would be a violation of the whole scheme
of our Government. If an injunction against an individual is
disobeyed, and he. commences proceedings before a grand jury
or in a court, such disobedience is personal only, and the court
or jury can proceed without incurring any penalty on that
account.
The difference .between the power to enjoin an individual
from doing certain things, and the power to enjoin courts from
proceeding in their own way to exercise jurisdiction is plain,
and no power to do the latter exists because of a power to do
theIt former.
is further objected that there is a plain and
adequate
remedy at law open to the complainants and that a court of
equity, therefore, has no jurisdiction in such case. It has been
suggested that the proper way to test the constitutionality of
the act is to disobey it, at least once, after which the company
might obey the act pending subsequent proceedings to test its
validity. But in the event of a single violation the prosecutor
might not avail himself of the opportunity to make the tet,
as obedience to the law was thereafter continued, and he
might think it unnecessary to start an inquiry. If, however,
he should do so while the company was thereafter obeying the
law, several years might elapse before there was a final determination of the question, and if it should be determined that
the law was invalid the property of the company would have
been taken during that time without due process of law, and
there would be no possibility of its recovery.
Another obstacle to making the test on the part of the company might be to find an agent or employ6 who would disobey

164.

OCTOBER-TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

the law, with a possible fine and imprisonment staring him in
the face if the act should be held valid. Take the passenger
rate act, for instance: A sale of a single ticket above the price
mentioned in that act might subject the ticket agent to a
charge of felony, and upon conviction to a fine of five thousand
dollars and imprisonment for five years. It :is true the company might pay the fine, but the imprisonment the agent
would have to suffer personally. It would not be wonderful
if, under such circumstances, there would not be a crowd of
agents offering to disobey the law. The wonder would be that
a single agent should be found ready to take the risk.
If, however, one should be found and the prosecutor should
elect to proceed against him, the defense that the act was
invalid, because the rates established by it were too low,
would require a long and difficult examination of quite complicated facts upon which the validity of the act depended.
Such investigation it would be almost impossible to make
before a jury, as such body could not intelligently pass upon
the matter. Questions of the cost of transportation of passengers and freight, the net earnings of the road, the separation
of the cost and earnings, within the State from those arising
beyond its boundaries, all depending upon the testimony of
experts and the examination of figures relating to these subjects, as well, possibly, as the expenses attending the building
and proper cost of the road, would necessarily form the chief
matter of inquiry, and intelligent answers could only be given
after a careful and prolonged examination of the whole evidence, and the making of calculations based thereon. All
material evidence having been taken upon these issues, it has
been held that it ought to be referred to the most competent
and reliable master to make all needed computations and to
find therefrom the necessary facts upon which a judgment
might be rendered that might be reviewed by this court.
Chicago &c. Railway Co. v. Tompkins, 176 U. S. 167. From
all these considerations it is plain that this is not a proper
suit for investigation by a jury. Suits for penalties, or in-

Ex parte YOUNG.
209 U. S.,

Opinion of the Court.

dictment or other criminal proceedings for a violation of the
act, would therefore furnish no reasonable or adequate opportunity for the presentation of a defense founded. upon the
assertion that the rates were too low and therefore the act invalid.
We do not say the company could not interpose this defense
*in an action to recover penalties or upon the trial of an indictment (St. Louis &c. Ry. Co. v. Gill, 156 U. S. 649), but the
facility of proving it in either case falls so far below that which
would obtain in a court of equity that comparison is scarcely
possible.
To await proceedings against the company in a state court
grounded upon a disobedience of the act, and then, if necessary,
obtain a review in this court by writ of error to the highest
state court, would place the company in peril of large loss and
its agents in great risk of fines and imprisonment if it should
be finally determined that the act was valid. This risk the
company ought not to be required to take.. Over eleven
thousand millions of dollars, it is estimated, are invested in
railroad property, owned by many thousands of people who
are scattered over the whole country from ocean to .ocean, and
they are entitled to equal protection from the laws and from
the courts, with the owners of all other kinds of property, no
more, no less. The courts having jurisdiction,, Federal or
state, should at all times be open to them as well as to others,
for the purpose of protecting their property and their legal
rights.
All the objections to a remedy at law as being plainly, inadequate are obviated by a suit in equity, making all. who
are directly interested parties to the suit, and. enjoining the
enforcement of the act until the decision of the court upon the
legal question.
An act of the&legislaturefixing rates, either for passengers
or freight, is to be regarded as prima facie valid, and the onus
rests upon the company to prove.its assertion to the contrary.
Under such circumstan6es it was stated by Mr, Justice Miller,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

in his concurring opinion in Chicago &c. Co. v. Minnesota, 134
U. S. 418, 460, that the proper, if not the only, mode of judicial relief against the tariff of rates established by the legislature or by its Commission is by a bill in chancery, asserting
its unreasonable character, and that until the decree of the
court in such equity suit was obtained it was not competent
for each individual having dealings with a carrier, or for the
carrier in regard to each individual who demands its services,
to raise a contest in the courts over the questions which ought
to be settled in this general and conclusive manner. This
remedy by bill in equity is referred to and approved by Mr.
Justice Shiras, in delivering the opinion of the court in St. Louis
&c. Co. v. Gill, 156 U. S.649, 659, 666, although that question
was not then directly before the court. Such remedy is undoubtedly the most convenient, the most comprehensive and
the most orderly way in which the rights of all parties can be
properly, fairly and adequately passed upon. It cannot be
to the real interest of anyone to injure or cripple the resources
of the railroad companies of the country, because the prosperity of both the railroads and the country is most intimately
connected. The question of sufficiency of rates is important
and controlling, and being of a judicial nature it ought to be
settled at the earliest moment by some court, and when a
Federal court first obtains jurisdiction it ought, on general
principles of jurisprudence, to be permitted to finish the inquiry and make a conclusive judgment to the exclusion of all
other courts.- This is all that is claimed, and this, we think,
must be admitted.
Finally it is objected that the necessary result of upholding
this suit in the Circuit Court will be to draw to the lower
Federal courts a great flood of litigation of this character,
where one Federal judge would have it in his power to enjoin
proceedings by state officials to enforce the legislative acts of
the State, either by criminal or civil actions. To this it may
be answered, in the first place, that no injunction ought to be
granted unless in a case reasonably free from doubt. We

Ex pate YOUNG.
โข209 U. S.

.16}7

Opinion of the Court.

think such rule is, and will be, followed by all the judges of
the Federal courts.
And, again, it must be remembered that jurisdiction of this
general character has, in fact, been exercised by Federal
courts from the time 6f Osborn v. United States Bank up to
the present; the only difference in regard to the case of Osborn
and the case in hand being that in this case the injury complained of is the threatened commencement of suits, civil or
criminal, to enforce the act, instead of, as in the Osborn case, an
actual and direct trespass upon or interference with tangible
property. A bill filed to prevent the commencement of suits
to enforce an unconstitutional act, under the circumstances
already mentioned, is no new invention, as we have already
seen. The difference between an actual and direct interference with tangible property and the enjoining of state officers
from enforcing an unconstitutional -act, is not of a radical
nature, and does not extend, in truth, the jurisdiction of the
courts over the subject matter. In the case of the interference
with property the person enjoined is assuming to act in his
capacity as an official of the State, and justification for his interference is claimed by reason of his position as a state official.
Such official cannot so justify when acting under an unconstitutional enactment of the legislature. So, where the state official, instead of directly interfering with tangible property, is
about to commence suits, which have for their object the enforcement of an act which violates the Federal Constitution,
to the great and irreparable injury of the complainants, he is
seeking the same justification from the authority of the State
as in other cases. The'sovereignty of the State is, in reality,
no more involved in one case than in the other. The State
cannot in either case impart to the official immunity from responsibility to the supreme authority of the United States. See
In re Ayers, 123 U. S. 507.
This supreme authority, which arises from the specific pro.visions of the Constitution itself, is nowhere more fully illustrated than in the series of decisions under the Federal habeas

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
HARLAN,

J.,

dissenting.

209 U. S.

corpus statute (ยง 753, Rev. Stat.), in some of which cases persons in the custody of state officers for alleged crimes against
the State have been taken from that custody and discharged
by a Federal court or judge, because the imprisonment was
adjudged to be in violation of the Federal Constitution. The
right to so discharge has not been doubted by this court, and
it has never been supposed there was any suit against the State
by reason of serving the writ upon one of the officers of the
State in whose custody the person was found. In some of
the cases the writ has been refused as matter of discretion, but
in others it has been granted, while the power has been fully
recognized in all. Ex parte Royall, 117 U. S. 241; In re Loney,
134 U. S. 372; In re Neagle, 135 U. S. 1; Baker v. Grice, 169
U. S. 284; Ohio v. Thomas, 173 U. S. 276; Minnesota v. Brundage, 180 U. S. 499, 502; Reid v. Jones, 187 U. S. 153; United
States v. Lewis, 200'U. S. 1; In re Lincoln, 202 U. S. 178; Urquhart v. Brown, 205 U. S. 179.
It is somewhat difficult to appreciate the distinction which,
while admitting that the taking of such a person from the
custody of the State by virtue of service of the writ on the
state officer in whose custody he is found, is not a suit against
the State, and yet service of a writ on the Attorney General
to prevent his enforcing an unconstitutional enactment of a
state legislature is a suit against the State.
There is nothing in the case before us that ought properly
to breed hostility to the customary operation of Federal
courts of justice in cases of this character.
The rule to show cause is discharged and the petition for
writs of habeas corpus and certiorari is dismissed.
So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN,

dissenting.

Although the history of this litigation is set forth in the
opinion of the court, I deem it appropriate to restate the
principal facts of the case in direct connection with my examination of the qtlestion upon which the decision turns.

Ex parte YOUNG.
209 U. S.

HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

That question is, whether the suit in the Circuit Court of the
United States was, as to the relief sought against the Attorney
General of Minnesota, forbidden by the Eleventh Amendment
of the Constitution of the United States, declaring that "the
judicial power of the United States shall not be construed to
extend to any suit in law or equity commenced or prosecuted
against one of the United States by citizens of another State,
or by citizer4 or subjects of any foreign State." That examination, I may say at the outset, is entered upon with no )ittle
embarrassment, in view of the fact that the views expressed
by me are not shared by my brethren. I may also frankly
admit embarrassment arising from certain views stated in
dissenting opinions heretofore delivered by me which did not,
at the time, meet the approval of my brethren, and which I
do not now myself entertain. What I shall say in this opinion
will be in substantial accord with what the court has heretofore decided, while the opinion of the court departs, as I think,
from principles previously announced by it upon full consideration. I propose to adhere to former decisions of the court,
whatever may have been once my opinion as to certain aspects
of this general question.
The plaintiffs in the suit referred to, Perkins and Shepard,
were shareholders of the Northern Pacific Railway Company
and citizens, respectively, of Iowa and Minnesota. The defendants were the railway company, Edward T. Young,
Attorney General of Minnesota, the several members of the
State Railroad and Warehouse Commission, and certain persons who were shippers of freight over the lines of that railway.
The general object of the suit was to prevent compliance
with the provisions of certain acts of the Minnesota legislature
and certain orders of the State Railroad and Warehouse Commission, indicating the rates which the State permits to be
charged for the transportation of passengers and commodities
upon railroads within its limits; also, to prevent shippers from
bringing actions against the railway company to enforce those
acts and orders.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

209 U. S.

The bill, among other things, prayed that Edward T. Young,
"as Attorney General of the State of Minnesota," and the
members of the State Railroad and Warehouse Commission
(naming them) be enjoined from all attempts to compel the
railway company to put in force the rates or afiy of them
prescribed by said orders, and "from taking any action, step
or proceeding against said Railway Company, or any of its
officers, directors, agents or employds, to enforce any penalties
or remedies for the violation by said Railway Company of said
orders or either of them;" and that said Young, "as Attorney
General," be enjoined from taking any action, step or proceeding against the railway company, its officers, agents or employ6s, to enforce the penalties and remedies specified in those
acts.
The court gave a temporary injunction as prayed for. The
Attorney General of Minnesota appeared specially and, without submitting to or acknowledging the jurisdiction of the
court, moved to dismiss the suit as to him, upon the ground
that the State had not consented to be sued, and also because
the bill was exhibited against him "as, and only as, the Attorney General of the State of Minnesota," to restrain him, by
injunction, from exercising the discretion vested in him to
commence appropriate actions; on behalf of the State, to enforce or to test the validity of its laws. He directly raised the
question that the suit as to him, in his official capacity, was
one against the State, in violation of the Eleventh Amendment.
In response to an order to show cause why the injunefion
asked for should not be granted the Attorney General also
appeared specially and urged like objections to the suit' against
him in the Circuit Court.
After hearing the parties the court made an order, September 23, 1907, whereby the railway company, its officers, directors, agents, servants and employ~s, were enjoined until
the further order of the court from publishing, adopting or
putting into effect the tariffs, rates or charges specified in the

Ex parte YOUNG.
209 U. S.

HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

act of April 18, 1907. The court likewise enjoined the defendant Young, "as Attorney General of the State of Minnesota,"
from "taking or instituting any action, suit, step or proceeding to enforce the penalties and remedies specified in said acts
or either thereof, or to compel obedience to said act or compliance therewith or any part thereof." A like injunction was
granted against the defendant shippers.
On the next day, September 24, 1907, the State of Minnesota, "on the relation of Edward T. Young, Attorney General," commenced an action in one of its own courts against
the Northern Pacific Railway Company-the only relief sought
being a mandamus ordering the company to adopt, publish,
keep for public inspection, and put into effect, as the rates
and charges to be maintained for the transportation of freight
between stations in Minnesota, those named and specified in
what is known as chapter 232 of the Session Laws of Minnesota for 1907. That was the act which it was the object of
the Perkins-Shepard suit in the Federal court to strike down
and nullify. An alternative writ of mandamus, such as the
State asked, was issued by the state court.
The institution, in the state court, by the State, on the relation of its Attorney General, of the mandamus proceeding
against the railway company having been brought to the attention of the Federal Circuit Court, a rule was issued against
the defendant Young to show cause why he should not be
punished as for contempt. Answering that rule, he alleged,
among other things, that the mandamus proceeding was
brought by and on behalf of the State,. through him as its
Attorney General; that in every way possible he had objected
to such jurisdiction on the ground that the action was coinmenced against him solely as the Attorney General for Minnesota in order to prevent him from instituting in the proper
courts civil actions for and in the name of the State to enforce
or test the validity of its laws; that there is no other action or
proceeding pending or contemplated by this defendant against
said railway company, except said proceedings in mandamus

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

209 U. S.

hereinbefore referred to. Defendant expressly disclaimed any
intention to treat this court with disrespect in the commencement of the proceedings referred to, "but believing that the
decision of this.court in this action, holding that it had jurisdiction to enjoin this defendant, as such Attorney General,
from performing his discretionary official duties, was in conflict with the Eleventh Amendment of the Constitution of the
United States, as the same has been interpreted and applied
by the United States Supreme Court, defendant believed it to
be his duty as such Attorney General to commence said mandamus proceedings for and in behalf of the-State, and it was in
this belief that said proceedings were commenced solely for
the purpose of enforcing the said law of the State of Minnesota."
The rule was heard, and the Attorney General was held to
be in contempt, the order of the Federal court being: "Ordered
further, that said Edward T. Young forthwith dismiss or cause
to be dismissed the suit of The State of Minnesota on the Relation
of Edward T. Young, Attorney General, Plaintiff, v. Northern
Pacific Railway Company, Defendant, heretofore instituted by
him in the District Court of the County of Ramsey, Second
Judicial District, State of Minnesota. Ordered further, that
for'his said contempt said Edward T. Young be fined the sum
of one hundred dollars and stand committed in the custody of
the Marshal of this court until the same be paid, and until he
purge himself of his contempt by dismissing "r causing to be
dismissed said suit last herein mentioned."
The present proceeding was commenced by an original application by Young to this court for a writ of habeas corpus.
The petitioner, in his application, proceeds upon the ground
that he is held in custody in violation of the Constitution of
the United States. The petition set out all the steps taken
in the suit in the Federal court, alleging, among other things:
"That your petitioner's office as Attorney General of the
State of Minnesota is established and provided for by the
constitution of the, said State, section 1 of Article V thereof

Ex parte YOUNG.
209 U. S.

HARLAN,

173

J., dissenting.

providing as follows, to wit: 'The Executive Department shall
consist of a Governor, Lieutenant Governor, Secretary of State,
Auditor, Treasurer and Attorney General, who shall be chosen
by the electors of the State.' That neither by statute nor
otherwise is your petitioner charged with any special duty of
a ministerial character in the doing or not doing of which said
complainants in the said bill of complaint or the said Northern
Pacific Railway Company had any. legal right, and that whatever duties your petitioner had or has with respect to the
several matters complained of in the said bill of complaint,
are of an executive and discretionary nature. That in no case
could your petitioner, even though it was his intention so to
do, -which it was not, deprive the said complainants or the said
Northern Pacific Railway Company, or either of them, of any
property, nor could he trespass upon their rights in any particular, and that all he could do as Attorney General as aforesaid and all .that it was his duty to do in that capacity, and all
that he intended to do or would do, was to commence formal
judicial proceedings in the appropriatecourt of Minnesota against
the said Northern Pacific Railway Company, its officers, agents
and employes, to compel the said company, its agents and
servants, to adopt and put in force the schedule of freight
rates, tariffs and charges prescribed by said chapter 232,
Laws 1907, of the State of Minnesota." He renewed the objection that the suit instituted by Perkins and Shepard, in so
far as the same is against him, was a suit against the State
to prevent his commencing the proposed action in the name
of the State, and was in restraint of the State itself, "and that
the said suit is one against the said State in violation of the
Eleventh Amendment to the Constitution of the United States,
and. that therefore the same is and was, so far as your petitioner is concerned, beyond the jurisdiction of the. said Circuit
Court," etc.
. This statement will sufficiently indicate the nature of the
question to be now examined upon its merits.
Let it be observed that the suit instituted by Perkins and

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

209 U. S.

Shepard in the Circuit Court of the United States was, as to
the defendant Young, one against him as, and only because he
was, Attorney General of Minnesota. No relief was sought
against him individually but only in his capacity as Attorney
General. And the manifest, indeed the avowed and admitted,
object of seeking such relief was to tie the hands of the State
so that it could not in any manner or by any mode of proceeding, in its own courts, test the validity of the statutes and
orders in question. It would therefore seem clear that within
the true meaning of the Eleventh Amendment the suit brought
in the Federal court was one, in legal effect, against the Stateas much so as if the State had been formally named on the
record as a party-and therefore it was a suit to which, under
the Amendment, so far as the State or its Attorney General
was concerned, the judicial power of the United States did not
and could not extend. If this proposition be sound it will
follow-indeed, it is conceded that if, so far as relief is sought
against the Attorney General of Minnesota, this be a suit
against the State-then the order of the Federal court enjoining that officer from taking any action, suit, step or proceeding to compel the railway company to obey the Minnesota
statute was beyond the jurisdiction of that court and wholly
void; in which case, that officer was at liberty to proceed in
the discharge of his official duties as defined by the laws of
the State, and the order adjudging him to be in contempt for
bringi~ng the mandamus proceeding in the. state court was a
nullity.
The fact that the Federal Circuit Court had, prior, to the
institution of the mandamus suit in the state court, preliminarily (but not finally), held the statutes of Minnesota and
the orders of its ]Railroad and Warehouse Commission in question to be in violation of the Constitution of the United States,
was no reason why that court should have laid violent hands
upon the Attorney General of-Minnesota and by its orders
have deprived the State of the services of its constitutional
law officer in its own courts. Yet that is what was done by

Ex parte YOUNG.
209 U. S.

HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

the Federal Circuit Court; for, the intangible thing, called a
State, however extensive its powers, can never appear or be
represented or known in any court in a litigated case, except
by and through its officers. When, therefore, the Federal court
forbade the defendant Young, as Attorney General of Minnesota, from taking any action, suit, step or proceeding whatever looking to the enforcement of the statutes in question, it
said in effect to the State of Minnesota: "It is true that the
powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution,
nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States
respectively or to its people, and it is true that under the Constitution the judicial power of the United States does not
extend to any suit brought against a State by a citizen of
another State or by a citizen or subject of a foreign State, yet
the Federal court adjudges that you, the State, although a
sovereign for many important governmental purposes, shall
not appear in your own courts, by your law officer, with the
view of enforcing, or even for determining the validity of the
state enactmerits which the Federal court has, upon a preliminary hearing, declared to be in viogfion of the Constitution of the United States."
This principle, if firmly established, would work a radical
change in our governmental system. It would inaugurate a
new era in the American judicial system and in the relations
of the National and state governments. It would enable the
subordinate Federal courts to supervise and control the official
action of the States as if they were "dependencies" or provinces. It would place the States of the Union in a condition
of inferiority never dreamed of when the Constitution was
adopted or when the Eleventh Amendment was made a part
of the Supreme Law of the Land. I cannot suppose that the
great men who framed the Constitution ever thought the
time would come when a subordinate Federal court, having
no power to compel a State, in its corporate*capacity, to appear before it as a litigant, would yet assume to deprive a
State of the right to be represented in its own courts by its

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

209 U. S.

regular law officer. That is what the court below did, as to
Minnesota, when it adjudged that the appearance of the defendant Young in the state court, as the Attorney General of
Minnesota, representing his State as its chief law officer, was
a contempt of the authority of the Federal court, punishable
by fine and. imprisonment. Too little consequence has been
attached to the fact that the courts of the States are under an
obligation equally strong with that resting upon the courts
of the Union to respect and enforce the provisions of the
Federal Constitution as the Supreme Law of the Land, and
to guard rights secured or guaranteed by that instrument.
We must assume-a decent respect for the.States requires us
to assume-that the state courts will enforce every right
secured by the Constitution. If they fail to-do so, the party
complaining has a clear remedy for the protection of -his rights;
for, he can come by writ of error, in an orderly, judicial way,
from the highest court of the State to this tribunal for redress
in respect of every right granted or secured by that instrument and denied by the state court. The state Courts, it should
be remembered, have jurisdiction concurrent with the courts
of the United States of all suits of a civil nature, at common
law or equity involving a prescribed amount, arising under
the Constitution or laws of the Uni ted States. 25 Stat. 434.
And this court has said: "A state court of original jiirisdiction, having the parties before it, may consistently with existing Federal legislation determine cases at law o: in equity
arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States
pr involving rights dependent upon such Constitution or laws.
Upon the state courts, equally with the courts of the Union,
rests the obligation to guard, enforce/and protect every right
granted or secured by the Constitution of the United States
and the laws made in pursuance thereof, whenever those rights
are involved in any suit or-proceeding before them; for the
judges of the state courts are required to take an oath to support that Constitution, and they are bound by it, and the laws
of the United States made in pursuance thereof, and.all treaties

Ex parte YOUNG.
209 U. S.

HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

made under their authority, as the supreme law of the land,
'anything in the Constitution or laws of any State to the contrary notwithstanding.' If they fail therein, and withhold
or deny rights, privileges, or immunities secured by the Constitution and laws of the United States, the party aggrieved
may bring the case from the highest court of the State in
which the question could be decided to this court for final and
conclusive determination." Robb v. Connolly, 111 U. S. 624,
637. So that an order of the Federal court preventing the
State from having the services of its Attorney General in one
of its own courts, except at the risk of his being fined and
arrestnd, cannot be justified upon the ground that the question of constitutional law, involved in the enforcement of the
statutes in question, was beyond the competency of a state,
court to consider and determine, primarily, as between the
parties before it in a suit brought by the State itself.
At the argument of this case counsel for the railway company insisted that the provisions of the act in question were
so drastic that they could be enforced by the State in its own
courts with such persistency and in such a manner as, in a very
brief period, to have the railway officers and agents all in jail,
the business of the company destroyed and its property confiscated by heavy and successive penalties, before a final judicial decision as to the constitutionality of the act could be
obtained. I infer from some language in the court's opinion
that these apprehensions are shared by some of my brethren.
And this supposed danger to the railway company and its
shareholders seems to have been the basis of the action of the
Federal Circuit Court when, by its order diiected against the
Attorney General of Minnesota, it practically excluded the
State from its own courts in respect of the issues herC involved
But really no such question as to the state statute is here in
volved or need be now considered'; for it cannot possibly arise
on the hearing of the present application of that officer for discharge on habeas corpus. The only question now before this
court is whether the suit by Perkins and Shepard in the Federal
VOL. cc.ix-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

209 U. S.

court was not, upon its face, as to the relief sought against the
Attorney General of Minnesota, a suit against the State. Stated
in another form, the question is whether that court may, by
operating upon that officer in his official capacity, by means of
fine and imprisonment, prevent the .State from being represented by its law officer in one of its own courts? If the Federal court could not thus put manacles upon the State so as
to prevent it from being represented by its Attorney General
in its own court and from having the state court pass upon the
validity of the state enactment in question in the PerkinsShepard suit, that is an end to this habeas corpus proceeding,
and the Attorney General of Minnesota should be discharged
by order of this court from custody.
It is to be observed that when the State was in effect prohibited by the order of the Federal court from appearing in
its own courts, there was no danger, absolutely none whatever, from anything that the Attorney General had ever done
or proposed to do, that the property of the railway company
would be confiscated and its officers and agents imprisoned,
beyond the power of that company to stay any wrong done
by bringing to this court, inregular order, any final judgment of
the state court, in the mandamus suit, which may have been in
derogdtion of a Federal right. When the Attorney General
instituted the mandamus proceeding in the state court against
the railway company there was in force, it must not be forgotten, an order of* injunction by the Federal court which
prevented that company from obeying the state law. There
was consequently no danger from that direction. Besides, the
mandamus proceeding was not instituted for the recovery of
any of the penalties prescribed by the state law, and therefore no judgment in that case could operate directly upon
the property of the railway company or upon the persons
of its officers or agents. The Attorney General in his response
to the rule against him assured the Federal court that he did
not contemplate any proceeding whatever against the railway company except the one in mandamus. Suppose the

Ex parte YOUNG.
209 U. S.

HARLAN,

179

J., dissenting.

mandamus case had been finally decided in the state court,
the way was open for the railway company to preserve any
question it made as to its rights under the Constitution, and,
in the event of a decision adverse to it in that court, at once
to carry the case to the highest court of Minnesota and thence
by a writ of error bring it to this court. That course would
have served to determine every question of constitutional
law raised by the suit in the Federal court in an orderly way
without trampling upon the State, and without interfering,
in the meantime, with the operation of the railway property
in the accustomed way. Instead of adopting that course-so
manifestly consistent with the dignity 'and authority of both
the Federal and state judicial tribunals-the Federal court
practically closed the state courts against the State itself

when it adjudged that the Attorney General, without regard
to the wishes of the Governor of Minnesota, and without reference to his duties as prescribed by the laws of that State, should
stand in the custody of the Marshal, unless he dismissed the
mandamus suit. If the Federal court could thus prohibit the
law officer of the State from representing it in &suit brought
in the state court, why might not the bill in the Federal court
be so amended that that court could reach all the district
attorneys in Minnesota and forbid them from bringing to
the attention of grand juries and the state courts violations
of the state act by the railway company? And if a grand jury
was about to inquire into the acts of the railway company in
respect of the matter of its rates, why may not the Federal
court, proceeding upon the same grounds on which it has
moved against the Attorney Genqral, enjoin the finding or
returning of indictments against the iailway company? If an
indictment was returned against the railway company, and
was about to be tried by a petit jury, why could not the Federal court, upon the principles now announced, forbid the jury
to proceed against the railway company, and if it did, punish
every petit -juryman as for contempt of court? Indeed, why
may it not lay its hands on the Governor of the State and

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

209 U. S.

forbid him from appealing to the courts of Minnesota in the
name of the State to test the validity of the act in question?
And why may not the Federal court lay its hands even upon
the judge of the state court itself, whenever it proceeds against
.the railway company under the state law?
The subject matter of these questions has evidently been
considered by this court, and the startling consequences that
would result from an affirmative answer. to them have not
been overlooked; for, in its opinion, I find these observations:
"It is proper to add that the right to enjoin an individual,
even though a state official, from commencing suits under circumstances already stated, does not include the power to
restrain a court from acting in any case brought before it,
either of a civil or criminal nature, nor does it include power
to prevent any investigation or action by a grand jury. The
latter body is part of the machinery of a criminal court, and
an injunction against a state court would be a violation of the
whole scheme of our government. If an injunction against an
individual is disobeyed, and he commences proceedings before
a grand jury or in a court, such disobedience, is personal only,
and the court or jury- can proceed without incurring any penalty on that account. The difference between the power to
enjoin an individual from doing certain -things, and the power
to enjoin courts from proceeding in their own way to exercise
jurisdiction is plain, and no power to do the latter exists because of a power to do the former." If an order of the Federal 'court forbidding a state court or its grand jury from
attempting to enforce a state enactment would be "a violation of the.whole scheme of our government," it is difficult to
perceive why an order of 'that court, forbidding the chief law
officer and all the district attorneys of a State to represent it
in the courts, in a particular case, and practically, in that
way, closing the doors of the state court against the State,
would not also be inconsistent with the whole scheme of our
government, and, therefore, beyond the power of the court
to make.

Ex parte YOUNG.
209 U. S.

HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

Whether the Minnesota statutes are or are not violative of
the Constitution is not. as already suggested, a question in this
habeas corpus proceeding. I do not, therefore, stop to consider whether those statutes are repugnant to the Constitution
upon the ground that by their necessary operation, when
enforced, they will prevent the railway company from contesting their validity, or upon the ground that they are confiscatory and therefore obnoxious to the requirement of due
process of law. While the argument at the bar in support of
each of these propositions was confessedly of great force and
persuasiveness, those points need not be now examined. I
express no opinion about them. Their soundness may, how6Ver, be conceded for the purposes of this discussion. Indeed,
it may be assumed for the purposes of this discussion that these
state enactments are harsh and intemperate and, in some of
their features, invalid. But those questions are wholly apart
from the present proceeding. If we now consider them we
must go out of our way in order to do so* We have no evidence in this proceeding, as to the effect which the statutes,
if enforced, would have upon the value either of the railway
property or of the bonds or stocks of the railway company.
The question of their validity has not been. finally decided by
the Circuit Court, afid we have not before us even the evidence
upon which its preliminary injunction was based. The essential and only question now before us or that need be decided
is whether an order by the Federal court which prevents the
State from being represented in its own courts, by its chief
law officer, upon an issue involving the constitutional validity
of certain state enactments, does not ,make a suit against the
State within the meaning of the Eleventh Amendment. If it
be a. suit of that kind, then, it is conceded, the Circuit Court
was without jurisqiction to fine and imprison the petitioner
and he must be. discharged, whatever our views may be as
to the validity of those state enactments.I This must necessarily be so unless the Amendment has less force %nd,a more
restricted meaning now than it had at
I the time of its adop-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
HARLAN, J.,

dissenting.

209 U. S.

tion, and unless a suit against the Attorney General of a State,
in his official capacity, is not one against a State under the
Eleventh Amendment when its determination depends upon
a question of constitutional power or right under the Fourteenth Amendment. In that view I cannot concur. In my
opinion the Eleventh Amendment has not been modified in
the slightest degree as to its scope or meaning by the Fourteenth Amendment, and a suit which, in its essence, is one,
against the State remains one of that character and is forbidden even when brought to strike down a state statute alleged to be in violation of that clause of the Fourteenth Amendment forbidding the deprivation by a State of life, liberty or
property without due process of law. If a suit be commenced
. in a state court, and involves a right secured by the Federal
Constitution, the way is open under our incomparable judicial
system to protect that right, first, by the judgment of the
state court, and. ultimately by the judgment of this court,
upon writ of error. But such right cannot be protected by
means of a uit which, at the outset, is, directly or. in legal
effect, one against the State whose action is alleged to be
illegal. That mode of redress is absolutely forbidden by the
Eleventh Amendment and cannot be made legal by mere
construction, or by any consideration of the consequences
that'may follow from the operation of the statute. Parties
cannot, in any case, obtain redress by a suit against the State.
Such has been the uniform ruling in this court, and it is most
unfortunate that it is now. declared'to be competent for a
Federal Circuit Court, by exerting its authority over the chief
law officer of the State, without the consent of the State, to
exclude the State, in its sovereign Jcapacity, from its own
courts when seeking to have the ruling of those courts as' to
its powers under its own. statutes. Surely, the right of a
State to invoke the jurisdiction of its own courts is not less
than the right of individuals to invoke the jurisdiction of a
Federal court. The preservation of the dignity and sovereignty
of the States, within the limits of their constitutional powers,

Ex parte YOUNG.
209 U. S.

HARLAN,

183

J., dissenting.

is of the last importance, and vital to the preservation of our
system of government. The courts should not permit themselves to be driven by the hardships, real or supposed, of
particular cases to accomplish. results, even if they be just
results, in a mode forbidden by the fundamental law. The
country should never be allowed to think that the Constitition can, in any case, be evaded or amended by mere judicial
interpretation, or that its behests may be nullified by an
ingenious construction of its provisions.
The importance of the question under consideration is a
sufficient justification for 8uch a reference to the authorities
as will indicate the precise grounds on which this court has
oftentimes proceeded when determining what is and what is
not a suit against a State within the meaning of the Eleventh
Amendment. All the cases agree in declaring the incapacity
of a Federal court to exercise jurisdiction over a State as a
party. But assaults upon the Eleventh Amendment have
oftenest been made in cases in which the effort has been,
without making the State a formal party, to control the acts
of its officers and agents, by such orders directed to them as
will accomplish, by indirection, the same results that could
be accomplished by a suit directly against the State, if such
a suit were possible. It will be well to look at some of the
principal adjudged cases.
The general question was examined in Cunningham v.
Macon & Brunswick R. R. Co., 109 U. S. 446-451, where the
court said that it was conceded in all the cases, and "may be
accepted as a point of departure unquestioned, that neither
a State nor the United States can be sued as defendant in any
court in this country without their consent, except in the
limited class of cases in which a State may be made a party
in the Supreme Court. of the Uinited States by virtue of the
original jurisdiction conferred on this court by the Constitution." The court has not in any case departed from this
constitutional principle. In Pennoyer v. McConnaughy, 140
U. S. 1, 9, it said that "this immunity of a State from suit is

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

209 U. S.

absolute and unqualified, and the constitutional provision
securing it is not to be so construed as to place the Stae
within the reach of the process of the court. Accordingly, it is
equally well settled that a suit against the officers of a State,
to compel them to do the acts which constitute a performance by it of its contracts, is, in effect, a suit against the State
itself." In Cunningham v. Macon & Brunswick R. R. Co.,
just cited, the distinction was drawn between i suit in which
the State is the real party in interest, although not technically
a party on the record, and one in which "an individual is sued
in tort for some act injurious to another in regard to person
or property, to which his defense is that he has acted under
the orders of the governm'ent;" in which last case, the court
observed, the defendant "is not sued as, or because,he is, the
officer of the government, but as an individual, and the court
is not ousted of jurisdiction because he asserts authority as
such officer." Let it not be forgotten that the defendant
Young, was sued, not as an individual or because he had any
personal interest' in these matters, but as, and solely because
he is, an officer of the State charged with the performanc6 of
certain public duties.
In Hagood v. Southern, 117 U. S. 52, 67, 68, which involved
the validity of certain scrip alleged to have been issued by the
State of South Carolina, it appeared that the State having
denied its obligation to pay, the plaintiff sought" relief by
simply suing certain state officers, as such, without making
the State a formal party, The court said; "These -uits are
accurately described as bills for the specific performance of
a contract between the complainants and the State of South
Carolina, who are the only parties to it. But to these bills
the State is not in name made a party defendant, though
leave is given to it to become such, if it chooses; -and, except
with that consent, it could not be brought before the court
and be made to appear and defend. And yet it is the actual
party to the alleged contract the performance of which is
decreed, the one required to perform the decree, and the only

Ex parte YOUNG.
209 U. S.

HAR,.,.,

J., dissenting.

party by whom it can be performed. Though not nominally
a party to the record, it is the real and only party in interest,
the nominal defendants being the officers and agentW of the
State, having no personal interest in the subject-matter of the
suit, and defending only as representing the State. And the
things required by the decrees to be done and performed by
them, are the very things, which when done and performed,
constitute a performance of the alleged contract by the State.
The State is not only the real party to the controversy, but
the real party against which relief is sought by the suit, and
the suit is, therefore, substantially within the prohibition of
the Eleventh Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States, which declares that 'the judicial power of the United
States shall not be construed to extend to any suit in law or
equity commenced or prosecuted against one of the United
States by citizens of another State, or by citizens or subjects
of any foreign State.' " Again: "If this case is not within the
class of those forbidden by the constitutional guaranty to the
States of immunity from suits in Federal tribunals, it is difficult to conceive the frame of one which would be. If the
State is named as a defendant, it can only 'be reached either
by mesne or final process through its officers and agents, and
a judgment against it could neither be obtained nor enforced,
except as the public conduct and government of the ideal
political body called a State could be reached and affected
through its official representatives. A judgment against these
latter, in their official and representative capacity, commanding them to perform official functions on behalf of the State
according to the dictates and decrees of the court, is, if anything can be, a judicial proceeding against the State itself.
If not, it may well be asked, what would constitute such a
proceeding? In the present cases the decrees were not only
against the defendants in their official capacity, but, that there
might be no mistake as to the nature and extent of the duty
to be performed, also against their successors in office." Is it
to be said that an order requiring the Attorney General of a

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

209 U. S.

State to perform certain official functions on behalf of the
State is a suit against the State, while an order forbidding
him, as Attorney General, not to perform an official function
on behalf of the State is not a suit against the State?
The leading case upon the general subject, and one very
similar in many important particulars to the present one, is
In re Ayers, 123 U. S. 443, 496, 497, 505. The facts in that
case were briefly these: The legislature of Virginia, in 1887,
passed an act which holders of sundry bonds and tax-receivable
coupons of that Commonwealth. alleged to be in violation of
their rights under the Constitution of the United States.
They instituted a suit in equity in the Circuit Court of the
United States against the Attorney General and Auditor of
Virginia, and against the Treasurers and Commonwealth attorneys of counties, cities and towns in Virginia, the rer f
asked being a decree enjoining and restraining the said state
officers, and each of them, from bringing or commencing any
suit provided for by the above act of 1887, or from doing anything to put that act into operation. The Circuit Court entered an order, enjoining the Attorney General of Virginia
and each and all the state officers named "from bringing or
commencing any suit against any person who has tendered the
State of Virginia tax-receivable coupons in payment of taxes
due to said State, as provided for and directed by the act of
the legislature of Virginia, approved May 12, 1887." Subsequently the Circuit Court of the United States was informed
that the Attorney General of Virginia had disobeyed its order
of injunction. Thereupon that officer was ruled to show cause
why he should not be fined and imprisoned. He responded to
the rule, admitting that after being served with the injunction
he had instituted a suit, in the state Circuit Court, against
the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company to recover taxes
due the State, and alleging "that he instituted the said suit
because he was thereunto required by the act of the General
Assembly of Virginia aforesaid, and because he believed this
court had no jurisdiction whatever to award the injunction

Ex parte YOUNG.
209 U. S.

HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

violated." He disclaimed any intention to treat the court
with disrespect, and stated that he had been actuated alone
by the desire to have the law properly administered. He was,
nevertheless, adjudged guilty of contempt, was required forthwith to dismiss the suit he had brought, Was fined $500 for
contempt of court, and committed to the custody of the marshal
until the fine was paid, and until he purged himself of his
contempt by dismissing the suit in the state court. The Attorney General then applied directly to this court for a writ of
'habeas corpus, which was granted, and upon hearing he was
released by this court from custody. The order for his discharge recited that the suit in which the injunctions were
granted was "in substance and in law a suit against the State
of Virginia," and "within the prohibition of the Eleventh
Amendment to the Constitution;" that it was one "to which
the judicial power of the United States does not extend;"
that the Circuit Court was without jurisdiction to entertain
it; that all its proceedings in the exercise of jurisdiction were
null and void; that it had no authority or power to adjudge
the Attorney General in contempt; and that his imprisonment was without authority of law. In the opinion in the
Ayers case the court said: "It follows, therefore, in the present
case, that the personal act of the petitioners sought to be
restrained by the order of the Circuit Court, reduced to the
mere bringingof an action in the name of and for the State against
taxpayers, who, although they may have tendered tax-receivable coupons, are charged as delinquents, cannot be alleged
against them as -in individual act in violation of any legal or
contract rights of such taxpayers." Again: "The relief sought
is against.the defendants, not in their individual, but in their
representative capacity as officers of the State of Virginia. The
acts sought to be restrained are the bringing of suits by the
State of Virginia in its own name and for its own use. If the
State had been made a defendant to this bill by name, charged
according to the allegations it now contains--supposing that
such a suit could be maintained-it would have been subject

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

209 U. S.

to the jurisdiction of the court by process served upon its
Governor and Attorney General, according to the precedents
in such cases. New Jersey v. New York, 5 Pet. 284, 288, 290;
Kentucky v. Dennison, 24 How . 66, 96, 97; Rule 5 of 1884,
108 U. S.574. If a decree could have been rendered enjoining
the State from bringing suits against its taxpayers, it would
have operated upon the State only through the officers who by
law were required to represent it in bringing such suits, viz.,
the present defendants, its Attorney General, and the Commonwealth's attorneys for the several counties. For a breach of such
an injunction, these officers would be amenable to the court
as proceeding in contempt of its authority, and would be liable
to punishment thereof by attachment and imprisonment.
The nature of the case, as supposed, is identical with that of
the case as actually presented in the bill, with the single exception that the State is not named as a defendant. How else
can the State be forbidden by judicial process to bring actions
in its name, except by constraining the conduct of its officers, its
attorneys, and its agents? And if all such officers, attorneys, and
agents are personally subjected to the process of the court, so as
to forbid their acting in its behalf, how can it be said that the
State itself is not subjected to the jurisdiction of the court as an
actual and real defendant?" Further: "The very object and
purpose of the Eleventh Amendment were to prevent the
indignity of subjecting a State to the coercive process of
judicial tribunals at the instance of private parties. It was
thought to be neither becoming nor convenient that the several States of the Union, invested with that large residuum
of sovereignty which had not been delegated to the United
States, should be summoned as defendants to answer the complaints of private persons, whether citizens of other States
or aliens, or that the course of their public policy and the
administration of their public affairs should be subject to
and controlled by the members of judicial tribunals without
their consent, and in favor of.individual interests. To secure
the manifest purposes of the constitutional exemption guaran-

Ex parte YOUNG.
209 U.S.

HRL.&N, J., dissenting.

teed by the Eleventh Amendment requires that it should be
interpreted, not literally and too narrowly, but fairly, and
with such breadth and largeness as effectually to accomplish
the substance of its purpose. In this spirit it must be held
to cover, not only suits brought against a State by name, but
those also against its officers, agents and representatives where
the State, though not named as such, is nevertheless the only real
party against which alone in fact the relief is asked, and against
which the judgment or decree efeetively operates. But this is not
intended in any way to impinge upon the principle which
justifies suits against individual defendants, who, under color
of the authority of unconstitutional legislation by the State,
are guilty of personal trespasses and wrongs, nor to forbid suits
against officers in their official capacity either to arrest or
direct their official action by injunction or mandamus, where
such suits are authorized by law, and the act to be done or
omitted is purely ministerial, in the performance or omission
of which the plaintiff has a legal interest."
It is said that the Ayers case is not applicable here, because
the orders made by the Federal Circuit Court had for their
object to compel Virginia to perform its contract with bondholders, which is not this case. But that difference between
the Ayers case and this case cannot affect the principle involved. The proceeding against the Attorney General of
Virginia had for its object to compel, by indirection, the performance of the contract which that Commonwealth was
alleged to have made with bondholders-such performance,
on the part of the State, to be effected by means of orders in
a Federal Circuit Court directly controlling the official action
of that officer. The proceeding in the Perkins-Shepard suit
against the Attorney General of Minnesota had for its object,
by means of orders in a Federal Circuit Court, directed to that
officer, to control the action of that State in reference to the
enforcement of certain statutes by judicial proceedings commenced in its own courts. The relief sought in each case was
to control the State by controlling the conduct of its law-officer,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

209 U. S.

against its will. I cannot conceive how the proceeding against
the Attorney General of Virginia could be deemed a suit against
that State, and yet the proceeding against the Attorney General of Minnesota is not to be deemed a suit against Minnesota,
when the object and effect of the latter proceeding was, beyond
all question, to shut that State entirely out of its own courts,
and prevent it'
through its law-officer from invoking their
jurisdiction in a special matter of public concern, involving
official duty, about which the State desired to know the views
of its own judiciary. In my opinion the decision in the Ayers
case determines this case for the petitioner.
More directly in point, perhaps, for the petitioner Young
is the case of Fitts v. McGhee, 172 U. S. 516, 528, 529, 530.
That suit was brought by the receivers of a railroad company
against the Governor and Attorney General of Alabama. Its
object was to prevent the enforcement of the provisions of an
Alabama statute prescribing the maximum rates of toll to be
charged on a certain bridge across the Tennessee River. The
statute imposed a penalty for each time that the owners,
lessees or operators of the bridge demanded or received any
higher rate of toll than was pregcribecd by it. The relief asked
was an injunction prohibiting the Governor and Attorney
General of the State and all other persons from instituting
any proceeding against the complainants, or either of them,
to enforce the statute. An injunction, as prayed for, was
granted. In the progress of the cause the solicitor of the
district in which the case was pending was made a defendant
and the injunction was extended to him. By amended pleadings it was made to appear that the tollgate keepers at the
public crossing of the bridge were indicted for collecting tolls
in violation of the statute. In the progress of the cause the
plaintiffs dismissed the case as to the State, and the cause
was discontinued as to the Governor. But the case was heard
upon the motion to dismiss the bill upon the ground that the
suit was one against the State in violation of the Constitution
of the United States.

Ex parte YOUNG.
209 U. S.

HARL", J., dissenting.

After stating the principles settled in the. Ayers case and
in other cases this court said: "If these principles be applied
in the present case there is no escape from the conclusion that,
although the State of Alabama was dismissed as a party defendant, this suit against its officers is really one against the
State. As a State can act only by its officers, an order restraining those officers from taking any steps, by means of judicial
proceedings, in execution of the statute of February 9, 1895,
is one which restrains the State itself, and the suit is consequently
as much against the State as if the State were named as a party,
defendant on the record. If the individual defendants held
possession or were about to take possession of, or to commit
any trespass upon, any property belonging to or under the
control of the plaintiffs, in violation of the latter's constitutional rights, they could not resist the judicial determination,
in a suit against them, of the question of the right to such
.possession by.simply asserting that they held or were entitled
to hold the property in their capacity as officers of the State.
In the case supposed, they would be compelled to make good
the State's claim to the property, and could not shield themselves against suit because of their official character. Tindal
v. Wesley, 167 U. S. 204, 222. No such case is before us."
Again, in the same case: "It is to be observed that neither the
Attorney General of Alabama nor the Solicitor of the Eleventh
Judicial Circuit of the State appear to have been charged by
law with any special duty in connection with the act of February 9, 1895. In support of the contention that the present
.suit is not one against the State, reference was made by counsel to several cases, among Which were Poindexter v. Greenhow,
114 U. S. 270; Allen v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad, 114 U. S.
311; Pennoyer v. McConnaughy, 140 U. S. 1; In re Tyler, 149
U. S. 164; Reagan v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 154 U. S.
362, 388; Scott v. Donald, 165 U. S. 58, and Smyth v. Ames,
169 U. S. 466. Upon examination it will be found that the
defendants in each of those cases were officers of the State,
especially charged with the execution of a state enactment

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

209 U. S

alleged to be unconstitutional, but under the authority of
which, it was averred, they were committing or were about to
commit some specific wrong or trespass to the injury of the
plaintiff's rights. There is a wide difference between a suit
against individuals, holding official positions under a State,
to prevent them, under the sanction of an unconstitutional
statute, from committing by some positive act a wrong or
trespass, and a suit against officers of a State merely to test the
constitutionality of a state statute, in the enforcement of which
those officers will act only by formal judicial proceedings in the
courts of the State. In the present case, as we have said, neither
of the state officers named held any special relation to the
particular statute alleged to be unconstitutional. They were
not expressly directed to see to its enforcement. If, because
they were law officers of the State, a case could be made for
the purpose of testing the constitutionality of the statute,
by an injunction suit brought against them, then the constitutionality of every act passed by the legislature could be tested
by a suit against the Governor and Attorney General, based
upon the theory that the former as the executive of the State
was, in a general-sense, charged with the execution of all its
laws, and the latter, as Attorney General, might represent the
State in litigation involving the enforcement of its statutes.
That would be a very convenient way for obtaining a speedy
judicial determination of questions of constifutional law
which may be raised by individuals, but it is a- mode which
cannot be applied to the States of tho Union consistently with
the fundamental principle that they cannot, without their
assent, be brought into any court at the suit of private persons.
If their officers commit acts of trespass or wrong to the citizen, they may be individually proceeded against for such
trespasses or wrong. Under the view we take of the question,
the citizen is not without effective remedy, when proceeded
against under a legislative enactment void for repugnancy
to the supreme law of the land; for, whatever the form of
proceeding against him, he can make his defense upon the

Ex parte YOUNG.
209 U. S.

HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

ground' that the statute is unconstitutional and void. And
that question can be ultimately brought to this court for final
determination." I am unable to distinguish that case, in
principle, from the one now before us. The Fitts case is'not
overruled, but is, I fear, frittered away or put out of sight by
unwarranted distinctions.
Two cases in this court are much relied on to support the
proposition that the Perkins-Shepard suit in the Circuit Court
is not a suit against the State. I refer to Reagan v. Farmers'
Loan & Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362, and Smyth v. Ames, 169
U. S. 466, 472. But each of those cases differs in material
respects from the one instituted by Perkins and Shepard in
the court below. In the Reagan case it appears that the
very act, under which the railroad commission proceeded, authorized the railroad company, or any interested party, if
dissatisfied with the action of the commission in establishing
rates, to -bring suit against that commission in any court, in
a named county, with right to appeal to a higher court. This
court when combatting the suggestion that only the state
court had jurisdiction to proceed against the commission,
and give relief in respect of the rates it established, said: "It
may be laid down as a general proposition that, whenever a
citizen of a State can go into the courts of a State to defend
his property against the illegal acts of its officers, a citizen of
another State may invoke the jurisdiction of the Federal
courts to maintain a like defense. A State cannot tie up a
citizen of another State, having property rights within its
territory invaded by unauthorized acts of its own officers, to
suits for redress in its own courts. Given a case where a suit
can be maintained in the courts of the State to protect property rights, a citizen of another State may invoke the jurisdiction of the' Federal courts.

.

.

,

It comes, therefore,

within the very terms of the act. It cannot be doubted that
a State, like any other government, can waive exemption
from suit." The declaration of the court in the Reagan case,
that that suit was not, within the true meaning of the Eleventh
VOL. ccix-1 3

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

209 U. S.

Amendment, to be regarded as a suit against the State, must
therefore be taken in connection with the declaration in the
same case that the State having consented that the commission might be sued in one of its own courts, in respect of the
rates established by the statute, must be taken to have waived
its immunity from suit in the Circuit Court of the United
States sitting in Texas. In Smyth v. Ames, above cited, which
was a suit in a Circuit Court of the United States, involving the constitutional validity of certain rates established for
railroads in Nebraska, it appeared that the statute expressly
authorized any railroad company claiming that the rates were
unreasonable to bring an action against the State before the
Supreme Court in the name of the railroad company or companies bringing the same. Thus the State of Nebraska waived
its immunity from suit, and having authorized a suit against
itself in one of its courts, in respect of the rates there in question, it could not, according to the decision in the Reagan case,
deny its liability to like suit in a court of the United States.
It is true that this court, in its opinion in Smyth v. Ames, did
not lay any special stress on the fact that Nebraska, by the
statute, agreed that it might be sued, but it took especial care
in its extended statement of the case to bring out that fact.
Its silence on that point is not extraordinary, in view of the
fact, as appears from the opinion of this court, that the question whether that suit was to be deemed one against the State
was not discussed at the bar by the Nebraska State Board.
We there quoted from the Reagan case these words: "Whenever a citizen of a State can go into the courts of. a State to
defend his property against the illegal acts of its officers, a
citizen of another State may invoke, the jurisdiction of the
Federal courts to maintain a like defense. A State cannot tie
up a citizen of another State, having property rights within
its territory invaded by unauthorized acts of its own officers,
to suits for redress in its own courts." That the Reagan and
Smyth cases did not go as far as is now claimed for them is
made clear by the later case of Fitts v. McGhee, already re-

Ex parte YOUNG.
209 U. S.

HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

ferred to, in which the doctrines of In-re Ayers were reaffirmed
and applied.
We may refer in this connection to Gunter v. Atlantic Coast
Line, 200 U. S.273, 291, in which case one of the points made
was that the Circuit Court of the United States had no power
to restrain the Attorney General of South Carolina and the
counsel associated with him from prosecuting in the state
courts actions authorized by the laws of the State, and hence
that the court erred in awarding an injunction against said
officers. This court said: "Support for the proposition is
rested upon the terms of the Eleventh Amendment and the
provisions of section 720 of the Revised Statutes, forbidding
the granting of a writ by any court of the United States to
stay proceedings in any court of a State, except in cases where
such injunction may be authorized by any law relating to
proceedings -in bankruptcy. The soundness of the doctrine
relied upon is undoubted. In.
re Ayers, 123 U. S.443; Fitts
v. McGhee, 172 U. S.516. The difficulty is that the doctrine
is inapplicable to this case. Section 720 of the Revised Statutes was originally adopted in 1793, whilst the Eleventh
Amendment was in process of formation in Congress for submission to the States, and long, therefore, before the ratification of that Amendment. The restrictions embodied in the
section were, therefore, but a partial accomplishment of the
more comprehensive result affectuated by the prohibitions of
the Eleventh Amendment. Both the statute and the Amendment relate to the power of courts of the United States to
deal, against the will and consent of a State, with controversies
between it and individuals. None of the prohibitions, therefore, of the Amendment or of the statute relate to the power
of a Federal court to administer relief in causes where juris,diction as to a State and its officers has been acquired as a
result of the voluntary action of the State in submitting its rights
to judicial determination. To confound the two classes of cases
is but to overlook the distinction which exists between the
power of a court to deal with a subject over which it has

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
HARLAN,

J , dissenting.

209 U. S.

jurisdiction and its want of authority to entertain a contro-

versy as to which jurisdiction is not possessed."
Counsel for the railway company placed some reliance on
Pennoyer v. McConnaughy, 140 U. S. 1, 18, in which the previous cases on the general subject of suits against the States
were classified. That .case was a suit in equity against certain
parties "who, under the constitution of Oregon, as Governor,
Secretary of State, and Treasurer of that State, comprised the
Board of Land Commissioners of that State, to restrain and
enjoin them from selling and conveying a large amount of
land in that State, to which the plaintiff asserted title." That
suit, in view of the nature of the relief asked, and of the relations of the defendants to the matters involved, was held not
to be one against the State within the meaning of the Eleventh
Amendment. But after a review of the facts the court, as
explanatory of the conclusion reached by it, took especial care
to observe: "In this connection it must be borne in mind that
this suit is not nominally against the Governor, Secretary of
State, and Treasurer, as such officers, but against them collectively, as the board of land commissioners." The present
suit is, in terms, against Young "as Attorney General of
Minnesota," and the decree was sought against him, as such
officer, not against him individually, or as a mere adininistrative officer charged with certain duties.
One of the cases cited in support of the decision now rendered is Missouri, Kansas & Texas Railway Co. V. Missouri
R. R. & Warehouse Commissioners, 183 U. S. 53, 58, 59. But
although that particular suit was held not to be one against
the State, the case, in respect of the principles announced by
the court, is in harmony with the views I have expressed.
For, the court there says: "Was the State the real party plaintiff? It was at an early day held by this court, construing
the Eleventh Amendment, that in all cases where jurisdiction depends on the party, it is the party named in the record.
Osborn v. United States Bank, 9 Wheat. 738. But that technical
construction has yielded to one more in consonance with the

Ex parte YOUNG.
209 U. S.

HARLAN, J., dissenting.

spirit of the Amendment, and in In re Ayers, 123 U. S. 443,
it was ruled upon full consideration that the Amendment
covers not only suits against a State by name but those also
against its officers, agents and representatives where the State,
though not named as such, is nevertheless the only real party
against which in fact the relief is asked, and against which the
judgment or decree effectively operates. And that construction
of the Amendment has since been followed." In the present
case, the State, although not named on the record as a party,
is the real party whose action it is sought to control.
There are other cases in this court in which the scope and
meaning of the Eleventh Amendment were under consideration, but they need not be cited, for they are well known.
They are all cited in In re Ayers, 123 U. S. 443, 500. "The
vital principle in all such cases," this court said in the Ayers
case, "is that the defendants, though professing to act as officers of the State, are threatening a violation of the personal
or property rights of the complainant, for which they are
personally and individually liable," or cases in which the
officer sued refused to perform a purely ministerial duty, about
which he had no discretion and in the performance of which
the plaintiff had a direct interest. The case before us is altogether different. The statutes in question did not impose
upon the Attorney General of Minnesota any special duty to
see to their enforcement. In bringing the mandamus suit he
acted under the general authority inhering in him as the chief
law officer of his State. He could not become personally liable
to the railway company simply because of his bringing the
mandamus suit. The Attorney General stated that all he did,
or contemplated doing, was to bring the mandamus suit.
The mere bringing of such a suit could not be alleged against
him as, an individual in violation of any legal iright of the railway company or its shareholders. In re Ayers, 123 U. S. 443,
496. The plaintiffs recognized this fact and hence did not
proceed in their suit upon the ground that the defendant was,
individually liable. They sued him only as Attorney General,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
HARLtAN,

J., dissenting.

209 U. S.

and sought a decree against hinm-in his official capacity, not
otherwise.
Some reference has been made to Ex parte Royall, 117 U. S.
241, and other cases,' that affirm the authority of a Federal
court, under existing statutes, to discharge upon habeas corpus
from the custody of a state officer one who is:held in violation
of the Federal Constitution for an alleged crime against a
State. Those cases are. not at all in point in the present discussion. Such a habeas corpus proceeding is ex parte, having
for its object only to inquire whether the applicant for the
writ is illegally restrained of his liberty. If he is, then the
state officer holding him in custody is a trespasser, and cannot defend the wrong or tort committed by him, by pleading
his official character. The power in a Federal court to discharge a person from the custody of a trespasser may well
exist, and yet the court has no power in a suit before it, by
an order directed against the Attorney General of a State,
as such, to prevent the State from being represented by that
officer, as a litigant in one of its own courts. The former cases,
it may be argued, come within the decisions which hold that
a suit which only seeks to prevent or restrain a trespass upon
-property or person by one who happens to be a stat officer,
but is proceeding in violation of the Constitution of the United
States, is not a suit against a State within the meaning of the
Eleventh Amendment, but a suit against the trespasser or
wrongdoer. But the authority of the Federal court to protect one against a trespass committed or about to be committed by a state officer in violation of the Constitution of
the United States is very different from the power now asserted, and recognized by this court as existing, to shut out
a sovereign State from its own courts by the device of forbidding its Attorney General, under the penalty of fine and
imprisonment, from appearing in such courts in its behalf.
The mere bringing of a suit on behalf of a State, by its Attorney
General, cannot (this court has decided in the Ayers case)
make that officer a trespasser and individually liable to the

Ex parte YOUNG.
209 U. S.

HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

party sued. To enjoin him from representing the State in
such suit is therefore, for every practical or legal purpose, to
enjoin the State itself. This court, in the Debs Case, 158 U. S.
564, 584, said: "Every government, entrusted, by the very
terms of its being, with powers and duties to be exercised and
discharged for the general welfare, has a right to apply to its
own courts for any proper assistance in the exercise of the one
is no sufficient answer
and the discharge of the other, and itto its appeal to one of those courts that it has no pecuniary
interest in the matter. The obligation which it is under' to
promote the interest of all, and to prevent the wrongdoing
of one resulting in injury to the general welfare, is often of
itself sufficient to give it a standing in court. This proposition in some of its relations has heretofore received the sanction
of this court." If there be one power that a State possesses,
which ought to be deemed beyond the control, in any mode,
of the National Government or of any of its courts, it is the
power by judicial proceedings to appear in its own courts, by
its law-officer or by attorneys, and seek the guidance of those
courts in respect of matters of a justiciable nature. If the
state court, by its judgment, in such a suit, should disregard
the injunctions of the Federal Constitution, that judgment
would be subject to review by this court upon writ of error
or appeal.
It will be well now to look at the course of decisions in other
Federal courts.
Attention is first directed to Arbuckle v. Blackburn, 113
Fed. IRep. 616, 622, which was a suit in equity, one of the
principal objects of which was to restrain, the enforcement
of an act of the Ohio legislature relating to food produfts,
particularly of a named coffee in which the plaintiffs were
interested. The Circuit Court of Appeals held that the bill
was properly dismissed, saying, among other things: "What,
then, is the object of the injunction sought in this case? It
is no more or less than to restrain the officer of the State from
bringing prosecutions for violations of an act which said offi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

209 U. S.

cer is expressly charged to enforce in the only way he is authorized to proceed-by bringing criminal prosecutions in the
name of the State. This is virtually to enjoin the State from
proceeding through its duly qualified and acting officers. If
the food commissioner may be enjoined from instituting such
prosecutions, why may not the prosecuting attorney, or any
officer of the State charged with the execution of the criminal
laws of the State? While the State may not be sued, if the bill
can be sustained against its officers, it is as effectually prevented from proceeding to enforce its laws as it would be by
an action directly against the State. This view of the case,
iii our judgment, is amply sustained by the cases above cited,
and by the later case of Fitts v. McGhee, 172 U. S. 516. In so
far as. this action seeks an injunction against the respondent
from proceeding to enforce by prosecution the provisions of the
statutes of Ohio above cited, the courts of the United States
are deprived of jurisdiction by the Eleventh Amendment to
the Constitution."
-In Union Trust Co. v. Stearns, 119 Fed. Rep. 790, 791,.792,
795, the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Rhode Island had occasion to consider the scope of the Eleventh
Amendment. The case related to a statute regulating the
hours of labor of certain employ~s of street railways, and imposing a fine for. a'violation of its provisions. The court upon
an elaborate review of all the cases in this court dismissed the
action. The defendants Stearns and Greenough were, respectively, the Attorney General and Assistant Attorney General of
the State. They were not named in the act, nor charged with
any special duty in connection therewith. The court said:
"The purpose of the present bill, in substance and effect, is
to enjoin the State of Rhode Island from the enforcement of
a penal statute. Indictments under the act are brought in
the name and on behalf of the State for the protection of the
State. These defendants, the Attorney General and his assistant, merely represent the State in such proceedings. They
are simply the officers and agents of the State. It is not as

Ex parte YOUNG.
209 U. S.

HARLAN, J., dissenting.

\

individuals, but solely by virtue of their holding such offices,
that they prefer and prosecute indictments in the name of the
State. A State can only act or be proceeded against through
its officers. If a decree could be entered against the State of
Rhode Island enjoining prosecutions under this act, it could
only operate against the State through enjoining these defendants. An order restraining the Attorney General and his
assistant from the enforcement of this statute is an order restraining the State itself. The present suit, therefore, is as
much against the State of Rhode Island as if the State itself
were named a party defendant." After referring to In re Ayers,
and Fitts v. McGhee, and upon a review of the cases, the court
proceeded: "The defendants Stearns and Greenough hold no
special relation to the act of June 1, 1902. They are not specially charged with its execution. They are not thereby constituted a board or commission with administrative powers,
nor are they as individuals, and apart from the official authority under which they act, threatening to seize the property of the complainant, or to commit any wrong or trespass
against its personal or property rights. They have no other
connection with this statute than the institution of formal
judicial proceedings for its enforcement in the courts of the
State in the name and behalf of the State. Upon reason and
authority the present bill is a suit against the State of Rhode
Island, within the meaning of the Eleventh Amendment to
the Constitution of the United States."
In Morenci Copper Co. v. Freer, 127 Fed. Rep. 199, 205,
which was an action in equity to restrain and inhibit the defendant, in his official capacity as Attorney General of West
Virginia, from proceeding t6 institute an action in the state
court for forfeiture of the charter of the plaintiff corporation
for a failure to pay a license tax imposed by a state statute,
and which statute was alleged to be in violation of the Federal
Constitution, the Circuit Court reviewed the decisions of this
court upon the question as to what were and what were not suits
against the State. The Circuit Court held that it had no juris-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

209 U. S.

diction of the case, saying: "But it may be said, if the court
holds that no remedy of this sort will lie in the Circuit Court
of the United States to prevent this breach of a contract by
the State of West Virginia by means of the machinery of a
law violative of the Constitution of the United States, how
are the rights of corporations to be preserved? The answer is
that such alleged unconstitutionality is matter of defense to
any suit brought for the forfeiture of complainant's charter,
and could be set up as an answer and defense to any bill
brought for that purpose, and, if the highest court of the State
ruled adversely to that contention, appeal would lie to the Supreme Court of the United States. Or the case can be removed
to the Circuit Court of the United States if it presents a case
arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States."
A well-considered case is that of Western Union Tel. Co. v.
Andrews, 154 Fed. Rep. 95, 107. In that case the telegraph
company sought by 'bill, to enjoin the prosecuting attorneys
of the various judicial circuits of Arkansas from instituting
any proceeding for penalties for its failure or refusal to comply with the provisions of an act of the legislature of Arkansas
relating to foreign corporations doing business in that State
and fixing fees, etc. The bill charged that the various prosecuting attorneys would, unless restrained, institute numerous
actions for the recovery of the penalties prescribed by the
act, which was no less than $1,000 for each alleged violation.
The defense was, amoi~g other things, that the action was one
against the State, and, therefore, prohibited by the Constitution. After a careful review of the adjudged cases in this court
and In the subordinate Federal courts, the Circuit Court held
the action to be one against the State; forbidden by the Eleventh Amendment, saying among other things: "The allegations in the bill show that this is an attempt to prevent the
State of Arkansas, through its officers, who by its laws are
merely its attorneys, to represent it in all legal actions in its
favor or in-which it is interested, from instituting and prosecuting suits for the recovery of penalties incurred for alleged

Ex parte YOUNG.
209 U. S.

HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

violation of its laws, actions which can only be instituted in
the name of the State and for its use and benefit."
Upon the fullest consideration and after a careful examination of the authorities, my mind has been brought to the conclusion that no case heretofore determined by this court requires us to hold that the Federal Circuit Court had authority
to forbid the Attorney General of Minnesota from representing
the State in the mandamus suit in the state court, or to adjudge that he was in contempt and liable to be fined and imprisoned simply because of his having, as Attorney General,
brought that suit for the State in one of its courts. On the
contrary, my conviction is very strong that, if regard be had
to former utterances of this court, the suit of Perkins and
Shepard in the Federal court, in respect of the relief sought
therein against Young, in his official capacity, as Attorney
General of Minnesota, is to be deemed-under the Ayers and
Fitts cases particularly-a suit against the State of which the
Circuit Court of the United States could not take cognizance
without violating. the Eleventh Amendment of the Constitution. Even if it were hield that suits to restrain the instituting
of actions directly to recover the prescribed penalties would
not be suits against the Statc, it would not follow that we should
go further and hold that a proceeding under which the State
was, in effect, denied access, by its Attorney General, to its
own courts, would be consistent with the Eleventh Amendment. A different view means, as I think, that although the
judicial power of the United States does not extend to any
suit expressly brought against a State by a citizen of another
State without its consent or to any suit the legal effect of which
is to tie the hands of the State, although not formally named
as a party, yet a Circuit Court of the United States, in a suit
brought against the Attorney General of a State may, by orders directed specifically against that officer, control, entirely
control, by indirection, the action of the State itself in judicial
proceedings in its own courts involving the constitutional
validity of its statutes. This court has heretofore held that

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

209 U. S.

that could not be done, and that such a result would, for most
purposes, practically obliterate the Eleventh Amendment and
place the States, in vital particulars, as absolutely under the
control of the subordinate Federal courts, as if they were
capable of being directly sued. I put the matter in this way,
because to forbid the Attorney General of a State (under the
penalty of being punished as for contempt) from representing
his State in suits of a partiular kind, in its own courts, is to
forbid the State itself from appearing and being heard in such
suits. Neither the words nor the policy of the Eleventh Amendment will, under our former decisions, justify any order of a
Federal court the necessary effect of which will be to exclude
a State from its own courts. Such an order attended by such
results cannot, I submit, be sustained consistently with the
powers which the States, according to the uniform declarations of this court, possess under the Constitution. I am
justified, by what this court has heretofore declared, in now
saying that the men who framed the Constitution and who
caused the adoption of the Eleventh Amendment would have
been amazed by the suggestion that a State of the Union can
be prevented by an order of a subordinate Federal court from
being represented by its Attorney General in a suit brought
by it in one of its own courts; and that such an order would be
inconsistent with the dignity of the States as involved in their
constitutional immunity from the judicial process of the Federal courts (except in the limited cases in which they may
constitutionally be made "partieg in this court) and would be
attended by most pernicious results.
I dissent from the opinion and judgment.

Dissent.

