NAT'L LIFE INS. CO. v. NAT'L LIFE INS. CO.
209 U. S.

317

Statement of the Case.

tion of it made applicable to cases already existing and other
portions applicable only to the future. We are convinced
Congress did not intend such separation. Viewing the whole
section, we think Congress meant that only in future cases
should the provisions of the amendment apply, although some
trifling portion of those provisions might be regarded, technically, as in the nature of procedure. It is therefore wiser
to hold the entire section governed by the usual rule and as
applying only to the future.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals was right,
and is

Affirmed.

NATIONAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA v. NATIONAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY.
APPEAL FLOM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 162. Argued March 0. 1908.-Decided April 6. 1908.
Even if the power to review the determination of an executive department
exists, where the complainant is merely appealing from the discretion of
the department to the discretion of the court, the court should not interfere by injunction where the complainant has no clear legal right to the
relief sought.
Where a corporation has taken the same name as that of an older corporation the fact that it has a greater quantity of mail matter does not
justify the court in interfering with a speci.l order of the Post Office Department directing the delivery of matter not addressed by street and
number in accordance with Par. 4 of ยง 645 of the General Regulations
of 1902 to the one first adopting the name in the place of address.

THE appellant commenced this suit in equity against the
defendants on the eighteenth day of July, 1905, in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

209 U. S.

Eastern Division, for the purpose of obtaining an injunction
against the corporation defendant, restraining it and its manager, the defendant D. G. Drake, at Chicago, Illinois, from receiving, and the Chicago postnaster and the letter carriers
nahed as defendants from delivering, mail-matter directea to
"National Life Insurance Company, Chicago, Illinois," to the
company so designated, on the ground that, in fact, such mailmatter was intended for the complainant, even though not
addressed to it. An answer of the corporation defendant and
that of its manager was duly filed and served, to which the
complainant filed a replication. After a hearing it was adjudged by the Circuit Court "that the defendant, National
Life Insurance Company, is entitled to have delivered to it
such mail as may come to the post-office at Chicago addressed
'National Life Insurance Company, Chicago, Illinois,' unless
such mail shall also bear the street number of the office of the
National Life Insurance Company of the United States of
America, or shall be in some other way designated, upon the
exterior of the envelope or wrapper containing such mail-matter, or otherwise, as designed for the National Life Insurance
Company of the United States of America, and not for the
National Life Insurance Company. Wherefore, it is further
ordered, adjudged and decreed that the bill of complaint
herein, as amended, be and the same is dismissed for want of
equity." This judgment was affirmed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals.
Upon the trial, among others, the following facts were
agreed upon:
An insurance company known as the National Life Insurance
Company of the United States of America was duly incorporated by special ac of Congress in the year 1868. Its chief
office and place of business was, by its charter, located in the
city of Washington, District of Columbia. The corporation
thereupon entered upon the life insurance business and continued to transact that business and to seek new business of
that kind until 1881.

NAT'L LIFE INS. CO. v. NAT'L LIFE INS. CO.
209 U. S.

319

Statement of the Case.

The company was duly admitted to do business in the State
of'Illinois on or about August 16, 1868, and in the year. 1874
it established in the city of Chicago, Illinois, what is denominated its principal branch office, and thereafter continuously
transacted in the city of Chicago nearly all of the business
usually transacted at the home office of an insurance company.
In 1881 the company ceased to solicit or to write any new
business, and such omission continued until 1900, and during
that period the business transacted by it at its principal branch
office in Chicago was such as was incident to the care and
preservation of the business written prior to 1881. Betweeh
those years the company was suffering a natural liquidation,
its outstanding policies decreasing from 5,966 in number to
1,317, while its policies in Illinois had decreased from 394 to
100. In the year 1900 the company again began to solicit new
business, and up to March, 1904, transacted at its principal
branch office in Chicago all of the business usually transacted
at the chief or national office of an insurance company.
In March, 1904, the complainant was incorporated under
the laws of the State of Illinois, with its principal office and
place of business in the National Life building, at 159 La Salle
street, in the city of Chicago, and the complainant forthwith
took over all the property and business of the Washington,
District of Columbia, corporation, and continued thereafter
to transact the business theretofore transacted by the latter
corporation. Prior to this time (March, 1904) the Washington
company had 'taken over the business of two other life insurance companies and one trust company, all of which had become merged in the Washington company when the complainant took over its business. The Washington corporation
still preserves its corporate entity, but since March, 1904, has
transacted no business except such as was incident to carrying out the contracts by which the complainant took over its
property and business.
The average number of pieces of mail received by the complainant at its chief office in Chicago, intended for it, during

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

209. U. S.

the year 1905 and up to May 1, 1906, was about 200 per day
for each business day.
The defendant F. E. Coyne was the postmaster at Chicago
up to the eighth of January, 1906, since the commencement
of this suit, and on that date Fred A. Busse was appointed
and has since acted as such postmaster. The other individual
defendants are the mail carriers in that city for the territory
in which the complainant's place of business is situated.
The corporation defendant was organized and incorporated
by an act of the legislature of Vermont on the thirteenth day
of November, 1848, under the name of "National Life Insurance Company of the United States." By another act of the
legislature, approved October 7, 1858, the name of the company was changed to "National Life Insurance Company,"
and since that time its name has-been continuously and is now
"National Life Insurance Company."
The company was duly admitted to do business in the State
of Illinois on the fifth of October, 1860, and has done business
in that State continuously from that time to the present.
It has maintained since some time prior to 1868 a branch office
in the city of Chicago, and has done business continuously at
that branch office since its establishment up to the present
time. That office since March 1, 1895, has been in charge of
the defendant D. G. Drake, as its manager. During the period
from 1881 to 1900 the business of this corporation in the State
of Illinois increased from 190 policies to 3,846 policies. It
has in all more than 70,000 policyholders, and the average
number of pieces of mail-matter received by it and D. G. Drake,
its manager, at the office of the company in the Marquette
Building, in Chicago, and intended for them, or one of them,
during the year i905 and up to May 1, 1906, was about 23
pieces per day for each business day.
There had been received for some years prior to 1905, at
the Chicago post-office, numerous pieces of mail-matter every
day, addressed simply "National Life Insurance Company,
Chicago, Illinois." During the year 1905 the average number

NAT'L LIFE INS. CO. v. NAT'L LIFE INS. CO.
209 U. S.

321

Statement of the Case.

of such pieces of mail-matter was about five per day. Prior
to the nineteenth of January, 1905, substantially all such mailmatter thus.addressed had been delivered to D. G. Drake, as
manager for the defendant National Life Insurance Company,
and from day to day Drake opened or caused to be opened the
pieces of mail-matter thus addressed, and those not found to
be intended for the defendant company would be marked by
him "Not for National Life Insurance Company," would then
be redeposited in the United States mail and subsequently
delivered to the National Life Insurance Company of the United States of America.
The complainant was dissatisfied with this condition of
things and contended that all the mail thus addressed should
be delivered to the complainant. Various letters passe4 upon
the subject between the complainant and the postmaster at
Chicago, and the manager of the defendant corporation, and
also the authorities of the Post Office Department, at Washington. For the purpose of settling the question it was suggested from Washington that the postmaster at Chicago should
direct a representative of the two companies to appear at his
office daily for a period of ten days and open the mail in the
presence of an employ6 of the office, designated by the postmaster, and that a record should be kept of the mail received,
and the proportion thereof intended for each company. If
it then appeared that a great majority of the mail was really
intended for the complainant, delivery should be made to
that company. On the other hand, if the contention that the
greater part of the mail so addressed belonged to the complainant was not supported by the facts, the existing conditions
should be continued; and should either party decline to assent
to these conditions, delivery should then be made to the other.
The defendant corporation did not agree to this examination
of the mail, and asked (January 17) for delay for further communications, but the postmaster at Chicago, on account of
this refusal, and- also acting under advices from the Postmaster
General's Department, at Washington, directed, under date
VOL. ccix-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

of January 18, 1905, that thereafter the mail should,, until
otherwise directed, be delivered to the complainant. Under
this order the mail was so delivered from January 19, 1905,
until July 12, 1905. During that time the complainant received 794 letters addressed "National Life Insurarne Company, Chicago, Illinois," and of that number 778 were found to
be intended for the complainant and related to its businebs;
2 letters were intended for the defendant and related to its
business; and the remaining 14 pieces consisted of circular
letters relating to bonds, mortgages and other securities -and
investments, advertising, catalogues and statistics, in regard
to which it was impossible to tell from the inspection of the
envelope and contents whether they were intended for the
complainant or the defendant.
On the twenty-first of June, 1905, the Post Office Department altered its directions, and directed the Chicago postmaster to thereafter deliver mail addressed "National Life
Insurance Company, Chicago, Illinois," to the National Life
Insurance Company, a Vermont corporation, at its offices in
the Marquette Building, Chicago, Illinois.
This order has ever since been obeyed by the Chicago postmaster, and for the purpose of obtaining relief therefrom the
present suit was commenced.
Mr. L. A. Stebbins, with whom Mr. W. H. Sears was on the
brief, for appellant.
Mr. Henry Russell Platt for appellee National Life Insurance
Company.
MR. JUSTICE PECKNAM, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The record shows that the defendant company was first incorporated in Vermont in 1848 by act of the legislature, under
the name "National Life Insurance Company of the United

NAT'L LIFE INS. CO. v. NAT'L LIFE INS. CO. 323
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

States," but in 1858 the legislature of that State altered the
name to "National Life Insurance Company," and this was ten
years prior to the incorporation of the Washington, D. C., corporation. The defendant company has ever since that time
maintained the name given it in 1858, and it was in use by it
when, in 1860, it was admitted to do business in Illinois. It
established a business office in Chicago prior to 1868, and has
since that time continuously made use of the mails of the
United States, under its corporate name.
After the Washington company was incorporated in August, 1868, it was admitted to do business in the State of Illinois, but it was not until 1874 that it established in the city
of Chicago what it denominated its principal branch office.
The defendant company, under the law of Illinois, places on
its signs in the building where it does business a statement that
it was incorporated in Vermont, but its corporate name has
no such addition.
Both companies being engaged in the life insurance business
in various States, and, after 1874, both having business offices
.n Chicago, are constantly receiving letters through the mails.
Large numbers of them are properly addressed, those intended
for the complainant being addressed to it by its own name,
to which is usually added the street number of the building
in which it has its office, 159 La Salle street, while those intended for the defendant company are addressed to it by name,
with the addition of Marquette Building, where its office is,
.or they are addressed to D. G. Drake, its manager. The difficulty has arisen over letters which were simply addressed
"National Life Insurance Company, Chicago, Illinois," and
these have, with the exception of a brief time between January
and July, 1905, been delivered to the defendant company, in
the Marquette Building. After they have been there opened
such of them as have been intended for the complainant have
been returned to the post-office at Chicago, from which they
havebeen then delivered to the complainait. A very large
proportion of the letters thus addressed have proved, upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

being opened, to have been intended for the complainant.
The letters that are addressed to the defendant by its corporate name cannot be known to have been intended for the
complainant until they have been opened. In other words,
there is nothing on the outside of the letters from which it
could be determined that they were not intended for the company to which they were addressed by its corporate name, but
for the complainant. Some of the letters thus addressed have
been, in fact, intended for the defendant company, although
a very small proportion of them.
As the defendant company used its name long prior to the
adoption of a somewhat similar name by the complainant, it
is apparent that the confusion which has arisen therefrom in
regard to the mail delivered at Chicago is not at all the fault
of the defendant company. The whole claim of the complainant rests upon the averment that a very large majority of the
letters that are addressed to the defendant company by its
own name alone are in reality intended for the complainant.
This fact does not clothe the complainant with the legal right
to insist that the Chicago postmaster shall be directed to deliver all mail of the character in question to a corporation other
than that to which the mail is addressed. It is a matter of
confusion arising from a similarity of names, wherein the
greater proportion of the total amount of the mail thus addressed belongs to the complainant, although not addressed
to it, and yet some portion of the mail thus addressed actually
belongs to the company to which the mail is in fact addressed.
There are no meansof discovering to which company the letters belong short of opening them. The complainant by adopting greater caution in the matter. of directions to its correspondents as to the proper address might probably be able
to secure more correctness in the direction of letters intended
for it.
In the endeavor to discharge its duty the department has
provided, in paragraph 4 of ยง 645 of its Postal Laws and Regulations of 1902, the following general regulation:

NAT'L LIFE INS. CO. v.- NAT'L LIFE INS. CO. 325
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"Attempts to secure the mail of an established house, firm,
or corporation through the adoption of a similar name should
not be recognized. Where disputes arise between individuals,
firms, or corporations as to the use of a name or designation,
matter addressed to a street, number, or building should be
delivered according to such address. When not so addressed,
the mail will be delivered to the firm or corporation which first
adopted the name o/ the address at that place."
The Post Office Department made a special order herein,
following substantially that rule. The appeal made by theL
complainant to the department was really nothing but an
appeal to its discretion; complainant could only have asked
for the order because, upon the whole, it was thought but fair
and equitable that the corporation for which, in a great majority of cases, the letters were probably intended, should
have them, although letters so addressed were in a number of
.cases :intended for the corporation named on them. The court
is now asked, in effect, to review and reverse that order, not
because the complainant has a legal right to the delivery of
all these letters, but only because, judging from the past, the
numbers intended for complainant are many more than those
intended for defendant, even though all are addressed to the
latter. The court is therefore asked to judge by the experience
of the past, although in making the order asked for it inevitably directs the delivery of some letters to the wrong party,
and in opposition to the address upon the letters. Assuming
that the court'in some cases has the power to, in effect, review
the determination of the department, we do not think this is
an occasion for its exercise. The complainant is really appealing from the discretion of the department to the discretion of
the court, and the complainant has no clear legal right to obtain the order sought. See Bates & Guild Co. v. Payne, 194
U. S. 106, 108.
. A court in such case ought not to interfere in the administration of a great department like that of the Post Office by
an injunction, which directs the department how to conduct

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Syllabus.

209 U. S.

the business thereof, where the party asking for the injunction
has no clear right to it.
This case has nothing in common with American School &c.
v. McAnnulty, 187 U. S. 94. There the Post Office Department was assuming to act under a statute giving it the power
to refuse to deliver mail-matter to an individual guilty of fraud
in his business, and this court held that the case made did not
show that the plaintiff in error had been guilty of any conduct
that could be held to be a fraud under the statute under which
the Post Office Department was acting. The department was,
therefore, without jurisdiction to make the order, which was
rcversed in this court.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals must be
Affirmed.

ALLEMANNIA FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY OF PITTSBURG v. FIREMEN'S INSUI ANCE COMPANY OF BALTIMORE, TO THE USE OF WOLFE, RECEIVER.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 180.

Argued March 17, 18, 1908.-Decided April 6, 1908.

Reinsurance has a well known meaning, and, as the usual compact of reinsurance has been understood in the commercial world for many years,
the liability of the reinsurer is not affected by the insolvency of the reinsured company or by the inability of the latter to fulfill its own contracts with the original insured; and in this case the compact, notwithstanding it refers to losses paid, will be construed to cover losses payable
by the reinsured company; and, in a suit by the receiver of that company

on the compact, the fact of its insolvency and non-payment of the risks
reinsured do~s not constitute a defense.
28 App. D. C. 330, affirmed.

