THOMAS v. TAGGART.
Syllabus.

209 U. S.

I am wrong. I suppose that it is possible to say that after
a purchase of stock is announced to a customer he becomes
an equitable tenant in common of all the stock of that kind
in the broker's hands, that the broker's powers of disposition,
extensive as they are, are subject to the duty to keep stock
enough on hand to satisfy his customers' claims, and that the
nature of the stock identifies the fund as fully as a grain elevator identifies the grain for which receipts are out. It would
seem to follow that the customer would have a right to demand his stock of the trustee himself, as well as to receive it
from the bankrupt, on paying whatever remained to be paid.
A just deference to the views of my brethren prevents my
dissenting from the conclusion reached, although I cannot but
feel a lingering doubt.

THOMAS v. TAGGART.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 197.

Argued January 17, 20, 1908.-Decided April 6, 1908.

Richardson v. Shaw, ante, p. 365, followed to the effect that as a general rule

the broker is the pledgee and the customer the owner and pledgor of stocks
carried on margin.

Where there is a repugnancy between the printed and written provisions
of a contract, the writing is presumed to express the specific intention
of the parties and will prevail. In this case the written portion on the
receipt given for stocks, deposited with the broker as collateral on account,
was held as specially applicable thereto and that the broker's right to
rehypothecate stocks under the printed portion of the contract was
confined to the stocks purchased and carried on margin.
If title to property is good as against the bankrupt or his creditors at the
time the trustee's title accrues, title does not pass, and the owner of the
property is entitled to have it restored to him, or, if it has been sold, the
proceeds thereof.
Shares of stock held by a broker as collateral for the account of a customer,
upon which the latter is not indebted to the broker, are the property, of

VOL. ccix-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U S.

the customer, and, as the trustee has no better right thereto than the
bankrupt, the customer is entitled to their possession; and this right is not
affected by the fact that, the broker had hypothecated the shares. In
such case the customer is entitled to the shares, or their proceeds, when
returned to the trustee if the loan has been paid by proceeds of other
securities pledged therefor.
Proof of claim of a customer against a broker, including value of securities
deposited as collateral, does not amount to a waiver of his right to recover possession of the specific stocks, if found, where his claim specifically states that he does not waive such right of possession.
149 Fed. Rep. 176, affirmed.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Abram I. Elkus, with whom Mr. CarlisleJ. Gleason was
on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Graham Sumner and Mr. George E. Hall, with whom
Mr. Thomas Thacher, Mr. Edwin M. Lawrence, and Mr. Hugo S.
Mack were on the briefs, for respondents.'
MR. JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case was argued and submitted with Henry Richardson,
as Trustee in Bankruptcy, v. John, M. Shaw and Alexander
Davidson, No. 122, just decided, ante p. 365. To the extent
which the case involves the same general questions as to the
legal relations of stockbrokers and customers, we need not
repeat the discussion had in Richardson v. Shaw, by which
the conclusion was reached that under the usual contract for
a speculative purchase of stock the customer is considered the
pledgor and the broker the pledgee.
In this case it is necessary to notice certain specific features
not arising in the case just referred to. The petitioners,
Edward S. Thomas, Lloyd M. Howell and Ashbel P. Fitch, are
the trustees in bankruptcy of Jacob Berry and Harold L. Ben-'
nett, individually and as partners as Berry & Company. Several persons, among others Anna D. Taggart, Harris Filson,
William C. Bowers and George E. Hall, made claims to reI Argued-simultaneously with No. 122, Richardson v. Shaw, ante, p. 365.

THOMAS v. TAGGART.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

cover certain certificates of stock, as against the trustees in
bankruptcy, or to have a lien on the funds, the proceeds of
other stocks in the hands of the trustees. The claims were
referred to a referee in bankruptcy, and, upon hearing, he
found in favor of certain of the claimants, among others Mrs.
Taggart, Filson, Hall and Bowers. The report of the referee
was confirmed by the District Judge on October 4, 1905, and
the trustees were directed to turn over certain certificates of
stack and proceeds of other certificates to the claimants. Upon
appeal the order and judgment of the District Court was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, sub nomine In re Berry, 149 Fed. Rep. 176, and the case
is now here upon a writ of certiorari.
From the findings of the referee it appears that certificates
of stock were pledged with the Hanover National Bank by
Berry & Company the day before the failure. This pledge was
to secure a demand loan of $45,000. Subsequently the bank
returned to the trustees all funds and stocks over and above
its loans. It returned in cash $6,310.41 and certain shares
of stock.
Taking up the several claims, we will first notice that of
Anna D. Taggart. She claims two certificates for 83 shares
of United States Steel stock preferred, which were returned
by the Hanover Bank unsold to the trustees in bankruptcy.
The receipt given to Mrs. Taggart at the time of the deposit
is in the words following:
"SEP. 14, 1904.
"Received from Anna D. Taggart 83 shs. U. S. Steel pfd.
No. A30563-c15546. The same to be a general deposit and this
receipt is given and received with mutual understanding that
Jacob Berry & Co. may hold the same as margin and as a
security for or apply the deposit in part payment of or account
of losses or any other transactions in the purchase or sale of
stocks, bonds, securities or commodities made by them for
your account.
"This receipt is given and received upon the further under-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

standing and agreement in consideration of Jacob Berry &
Co. executing such orders for the purchase or sale of stocks,
bonds, securities or commodities as may be given to them in
writing, orally, by telegraph or telephone; that the said Jacob
Berry & Co. may repledge, rehypothecate or loan any or all
of said stocks, bonds, securities or commodities held by them
on account thereof as margin or otherwise; may substitute
similar stocks, bonds, securities or commodities therefor, and
that said Jacob Berry & Co. may, without notice upon the approximate exhaustion of margin sell, or buy, as the case may
be, any stocks, bonds, securities or commodities bought and
sold or held by them as collateral, or margin, or otherwise,
and that in case of contracts for future delivery that said
Jacob Berry & Co. may close the same by purchase or sale as
the case may be, without notice, provided however, that such
purchases or sales may be made upon the Consolidated Stock
and Petroleum Exchange of New York,. the New York Stock
Exchange, the Chicago Board of Trade, or in any other exchange in the City of New York where such stocks, bonds,
securities or other commodities are dealt in.
"No. A30563-33 Shs.
"No. c15546-50 "
"GEO. M. DAVIS, Mgr."
Across the face of this receipt was written, in ink, the words
"as collateral on account." The question is, Mrs. Taggart not
being indebted to the trustees, but having a balance due from
the estate to her, did these shares of stock belong to the trustee in bankruptcy as part of the bankrupt's estate, or were
they the property of the claimant, Mrs. Taggart? The learned
Court of Appeals construed the receipt as consisting of two
parts-the first paragraph relating to the shares of steel stock
especially deposited, and the second to the stocks, bonds and
securities or commodties purchased upon her account by the
brokers, concerning which they were given the right to repledge, rehypothecate or loan, and the right to substitute
therefor similar stocks, bonds, and securities.

THOMAS v. TAGGART.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

In Richardson v. Shaw, ante, p. 365, we have discussed the
legal relation existing between a customer and a broker who has
the right to pledge and hypothecate securities purchased for
the customer and substitute similar securities therefor, with the
obligation to respond at all times to the demand of the customer
for the redemption of the stocks, and we need not here repeat
what is therein said.
We are of the opinion that the Circuit Court of Appeals
correctly construed this receipt. It was the evident purpose
of the parties that the eighty-three shares of United States.
Steel stock preferred was to be held, as the receipt shows, as
security for losses in purchase or sale of stocks, bonds or securities on account of the customer, and the separate paragraph
of the receipt, giving the right to repledge, etc., and substitute
similar stocks, bonds and securities, had reference to the
stock, securities, etc., obtained in executing the orders for
purchase made by the. customer. And this construction of the
receipt is, we think, placed beyond contradiction when effect
is given to the words written across the face of the printed
receipt as "collateral on account." It is a well-settled rule of
law that if there is a repugnancy between the printed and the
written provisions of the contract, the writing will prevail.
It is presumed to express the specific intention of the parties.
Hagan v. Scottish Insurance Co.., 186 U. S. 423.
This being the situation as to Mrs. Taggart's claim, we think
the court properly held that she was entitled to recover her
shares of stock. They were not the property of Berry & Company, but were held as collateral to her account upon which
she is not indebted to the brokers. The certificates were returned to the trustees, who had no better right in them than
the bankrupt.
The rule is generally recognized that if the title to property
claimed is good as against the bankrupt and his creditors at
the time the trustee's title accrued, the title does not pass and
the property should be restored to its true owner; or, if 1he
property has been sold, the proceeds of the sale takes the place

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

of, the property. Loveland on Bankruptcy (3d ed.), ยง 152;
Hewit v. Berlin Machine Works, 194 U., S. 296; York Manufacturing Co. v. Cassell, 201 U. S.344.
We will next consider the claim of Harris Filson.
Filson claims a lien on the fund as the owner of two certificates for ten shares each of preferred stock: of the Atchison,
Topeka and Santa Fd Railroad Company.
Filson identified the certificates by their numbers and produced Berry & Company's receipts therefor. The bankrupts,
Berry & Company, had hypothecated them with the Hanover
Bank, which sold them for $2,072.50, which the claimant seeks
to recover.
The master finds that Filson had a speculative account with
Berry & Company, and "was trading on both sides of the
market." On the morning of November 25, his account showed
that he had bought on margin, 70 shares of stock, including
40 shares of Pennsylvania Railroad, and that he had sold
"short" 50 shares of stock, including 20. shares of "Atchison
preferred," and 10 shares of "Erie, first preferred." The account also showed a cash credit of $3,105.97. The claimant
testified that he called at the office of Berry & Company on
November 25, to arrange to take out of the account the 40
shares of Pennsylvania, whivh he had previously bought on
margin on November 17. He took with him one of the ten
share certificates of Atchison, Topeka and Santa F6, and asked
the cashier to figure up the account and let him know if the
deposit of the Atchison certificate would leave sufficient margin to withdraw the Pennsylvania stock. He was told that
it was not sufficient, as the withdrawal of the Pennsylvania
stock would leave a credit balance of only $300 or $400. Filson
then went to his safe deposit box and took out two additional
certificates for 10 shares of Atchison and 10 shares of Erie, and
delivered them, together with other certificates, to Berry &
Company on their usual receipt, which was, in form, the same
as the receipt given to Mrs. Taggart, above quoted.
The next day Berry & Company failed, Filson never re-

THOMAS v. TAGGART.
209 U. S.

.391

Opinion of the Court.

ceived his Pennsylvania stock, and on November 26 no certificate of Pennsylvania stock came into the hands of the
receiver in bankruptcy, nor was deposited in any bank as collateral.
Upon the principles stated, we are clearly of the opinion
that Filson had a valid claim for the value of his shares of
Atchison stock in controversy.
As to two shares of New York, New Haven and Hartford
stock, claimed by William C. Bowers, the facts require no
additional discussion. These shares were pledged and the
same receipt given as above described. The shares were
pledged to the Hanover Bank and returned unsold to the
trustees. As Bowers was not indebted on the account for
which they were held as security, the shares belonged to him.
George E. Hall seeks to recover a certificate for ten shares
of common stock of the United States Steel Corporation, returned to the trustees by the Hanover Bank, unsold.
On November 1, 1904, Hall deposited certain securities,
including the steel stock, with' the New Haven manager of
Berry & Company, and took a receipt, specifying that they
were held "as collateral." Berry & Company hypothecated
them with the Hanover Bank. Hall had a speculative account
with Berry & Company at the time, and the securities were deposited in lieu of cash margin for the account.' By a prior order in the bankruptcy proceeding the claimant has recovered
from the trustees certain stocks found to be his property, but
which had not been hypothecated with Berry & Company.
No lien or claim on the stock in question is 'asserted by the
tiustees, and Hall was not indebted to Berry & Company on
November 25, 1904. Hall filed a claim in bankruptcy on December 19, 1904, for $1,850, which included the value of all
his stocks in the hands of Berry & Company, valued at $1,600,
and a cash balance of $250 due him. In the proof of his claim,
-Hall sets forth the following statement relative thereto:
"Said deponent hereby stipulates that 'by filing notice' of
this claim he does 4ot waive any right 6f action that he now

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

has to recover possession of said certificates or the value thereof
against either of the bankrupts or any person in whose possession they may be found, or any right of action that he has
against either or both of said bankrupts for the conversion of
said certificates to their own use, when said bankrupts knew
that said certificates were not their property, and never had
been; and that the said deponent does not waive any right
whatsoever of any kind, nature or description against said
bankrupts, or either of them, for or on account of the failure
of the bankrupts or either of them to return said certificates
to said deponent, and for the unlawful hypothecation and
conversion of the same by said bankrupts, or either of them."
In this claim the essential question is as to the effect of Hall's
proof of his claim in bankruptcy as a waiver of his right to
recover the shares of stock covered by the receipt. We are
of the opinion that, in view of the reservation just made, there
was nothing in Hall's conduct amounting to an election to
pursue his claim as a creditor in bankruptcy, which now prevents his recovery of the certificates of stock in question. It
is true that he voted at the first meeting of the creditors on
December 19, 1904, upon an informal ballot for trustee in
bankruptcy, and at the formal election of trustees on December 21, 1904, Mr. Hall did not vote, though the referee finds
that he participated actively at the meetings held for the election of trustee. We are of the opinion that the reservation of
Hall evidenced his intention to hold on to whatever rights he
had in his shares of stock, and there is nothing in his conduct
which should preclude him, after he had discovered that the
shares had been returned to the assignee in bankruptcy, from
reclaiming them as his own property.
We find no error in the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit, and the same is
Affirmed.

