GARZOT v.
209 U. S.

DE

RUBIO.

Counsel for Appellants.

GARZOT v. DE RUBIO.
BURSET v. SAME.
BURSET v. SAME.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR PORTO RICO.
Non. 141, 142, 604. Argued February 27, 28, 1908.-Decided April 6. 1908.
The power of this court to review judgments of the District Court of the
United States for Porto Rico given by § 35 of the act of April 12, 1900, 31
Stat. 85, is the same as that to review judgments of the Supreme Courts
of the Territories and is controlled by § 2 of the act of April 7, 1874, 18
Stat. 27; on writ of error, therefore, this court is confined to such legal
questions as necessarily arise on the face of the record, such as exceptions
to rulings on the rejection and admission of testimony and the sufficiency
of the findings to sustain the decree based thereon.
In this case the facts sustained the plaintiff's contention that she was a citizen
of Spain and as t" 'hat point there was no ground for dismissal for want of
jurisdiction.
A bill in equity to set aside an agreement adjusting a community between
the widoiv and children, brought after the death of the widow who had
also left children by a second marriage, held in this case, to be a liquidation of the community, and, although the property was derived solely
from the first husband, the children of the second marriage were, as heirs
of the mother, interested in her share and necessary parties to the bill.
In establishing a civil government for Porto Rico Congress by 1 33 of the
act of May 1, 1900, in scrupulous regard for local institutions and laws,
preserved the local courts and recognized their jurisdiction over local
affairs, including matters of probate jurisdiction.
By art. 62, par. 5, of the Porto Rican Code, power to administer estates is
exclusively vested in the judge of the last place of residence of the deceased,
and this includes all actions incidental to the liquidation of a community
existing between husband and wife, and the District Court of the United
States for Porto Rico has not-jurisdiction of an action to set aside an agreement of liquidation of a community where the estates are still open in,
and subject to the power and authority of, the local court.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. N. B. K. Pettingill and Mr. George H. Lamar for appellants.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

Mr. Francis H. Dexter and Mr. Frederic D. McKenney for
appellee.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE delivere l the opinion of the court.
These several appeals were taken by the various appellants
from the same decree. We dispose of them together. The
transcript is voluminous and confused. Following the order
of the court below and the direction of the counsel for all the
appellants, not objected to by the counsel for the appellee,
the transcript contains all the proceedings, all the testimony
offered at the hearing, together with. the opinion as well as
the elaborate findings of fact and conclusions of law by which
the court below disposed of the case. The many assignments
of error proceed upon the assumption. that every question
arising from the transcript is open for our consideration.
Our power to review is derived from § 35 of the act of April 12,
1900 (31 Stat. 85), which provides "that writs of error and
appeals from the final decisions . . . of the District Court
of the United States (for Porto Rico) shall be allowed anti may
be taken to the Supreme Court of the United States in the
same manner and under the same regulations . . . as from
the Supreme Courts of the territories of the United States."
Our jurisdiction over causes coming from the Territories generally was thus stated in Idaho & Oregon Land Co. v. Bradley,
132 U. S.509, 513:
"Congress has prescribed that the appellate jurisdiction of
this court over 'judgments and decrees' of the Territorial
courts, 'in cases of trial by jury, shall be exercised by writ of
error, and in all other cases by appeal;' anzd 'or appeal, instead of the evidence at large, a statement of the facts of the
case in the nature of a special verdict, and also the rulings of
the court on the admission or rejection of evidence when excepted to, shall be made and certified by the court below,' and
transmitted to this court with the transcript of the record.
Act of April 7, 1874, c. S0, sec. 2, 18 Stat. 27, 28."

GARZOT v. DE RUBIO.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

And, as pointed out in the same case (p. 513), followed since
in a long line of cases:
"The necessary effect of this enactment is that no judgment
or decree of the highest court of a Territory can be reviewed
by this court in matter of fact, but only in matter of law. As
observed by Chief Justice Waite: 'We are not to consider the
testimony in any case. Upon a writ of error, we are confined
to the bill of exceptions, or questions of law otherwise presented by the record; and upon an appeal, to the statement
of facts and rulings certified by the court below. The facts
set forth in the statement which must come up with the appeal
are conclusive on us.' Hecht v. Boughton, 105 U. S. 235, 236."
While the suggestion that because there is no intermediate
reviewing court between this and the District Court of the
United States for Porto Rico, differing from what is generally
the case in the Territories of the United States, a wider scope
of authority should exist in reviewing by appeal the decrees
of the District Court of Porto Rico, may have cogency, it
affords no ground for disregarding the plain command of the
statute of 1874, which is here applicable, as expounded by
many previous decisions of this court. It follows that the
greater part of the transcript is superfluous, and we therefore
disregard it and confine our attention to such legal questions
as necessarily arise on the face of the record, viz., to rulings
concerning the rejection or admission of testimony duly excepted to, and to the sufficiency of the findings to sustain the
legal conclusion or decree based on them.
The sole complainant, Maria Rios de Rubio, a widow, was
averred to be "a resident of San Juan, Porto Rico, and a loyal
subject of the King of Spain." There was no specific traverse
of this averment. The court expressly found "that the citizenship and residence of the parties was as alleged in the bill
of complaint." After the findings of fact had been made and
the decree entered, and after an appeal by one of the parties,
other of the defendants who had initiated appeals, but had not
perfected them, moved for an extension of time to perfect

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

their appeals and for an opening of the decree, on the ground
that when the bill was filed complainant was not a citizen of
Spain but of Porto Rico, and, therefore, the court never had
jurisdiction of the case. This motion was entertained by the
judge then presiding, who succeeded in office the judge by
whom the cause was tried. After hearing the evidence offered
by both parties and analyzing the same, it was found that the
complainant was a citizen of Spain as alleged. The motion to
reopen was therefore denied. Without stopping to review the
elaborate discussion of the subject on behalf of the appellants,
we content ourselves with saying that we think the facts upon
which the court based its action sustain that conclusion, and
therefore the contention as to want of jurisdiction, because of
the alleged absence of Spanish citizenship of the complainant,
.is without merit.
In approaching the merits we put out of view for the moment
the many assignments of error which are addressed to rulings
of the court admitting or rejecting evidence, and reserve for
ulterior determination whether in view of the state of the
record such objections are open, and if they are, whether any
of them are well taken.
In order to a clear understanding of the origin of the controversy, we state the facts out of which it arose, confining ourselves to those shown by the pleadings or documents made
a part thereof or established by the findings below.
Jos6 Maria Rios and Manuela Gutman were married in
Porto Rico in 1866. There being no marital contract to the
contrary, a legal community of property, as defined in the
Spanish law, supervened between the spouses.
The wife at the time of the marriage had eight thousand
pesos of separate money and the husband about half that
amount. During the, nine years which intervened, between
the marriage and September 8, i875, the husband had become
the owner of various pieces of real estate, seven or eight of
which were situated in the district of Naguabo, and one, or
maybe two or more, in the district of Humacao. On Septem-

GARZOT
209 U. S.

V. DE

RUBIO.

Opinion of the Court.

ber 8, 1875, the husband, Rios; died leaving surviving him his
widow, Manuela, and three minor children, the issue of the
marriage, viz., two daughters, the one Petronila and the other
Maria, and a son, Jos6. On the night of his death the husband
executed a power of attorney, authorizing his wife to make
a last will on his behalf, and on September 12 following, in
virtue of this power, the wife executed the will. As the document was in no respect dispositive, but purely declaratory of
the rule of legal succession, its effect on this controversy may
be put out of view. By the law of Spain the three children
were the heirs of the estate of their father, less the mother's
share of the community estate, if any, subject to the usufruct
of the mother on her husband's estate and subject to a marital
fourth in favor of the wife, if the circumstances justified such
an allowance. The widow instituted the necessary preliminary
probate proceedings in the proper court to open the estate,
and became executrix and the tutrix of her minor children and
usufructuary of their estate, and, in one or both capacities.
went into possession and control of the entire property, including in such property her community estate, if any there
was. Two years after the widow married Miguel Bustelo.
In November, 1887, Jos6, the son by the first marriage, being
yet a minor, died intestate, and his mother, Manuela, instituted in the proper court proceedings concerning the estate of
her deceased son. It may be conceded that the mother, as
the immediate ascendant, was the sole heir of the son, to the
exclusion of the sisters, the estate taken by her, however,
being only usufructuary in character since at her death, as
the estate of the son had come to him as part of his paternal
inheritance (the succession of his father), it reverted to the
sisters, children of the father-because of the principle of the
Spanish law which took into account the source whence the
estate of the son had been derived, for the purpose of regulating its transmission by death.
In 1890 the daughter Maria married one Rubio, and in 1898
Petronila, the other daughter, married one Noyas. In the

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

meanwhile five children were born of the marriage between
Manuela Gutman and Bustelo, and the latter died, leaving
surviving him his widow and these five children. From the
death of the first husband, in 1875, to January, 1901, Manuela
Gutman possessed and controlled all the property which she
entered into possession of at the date of the death of her first
husband, without rendering accounts of her administration to
the court in which the estate hd been opened, although that
court had full power to control land direct her administration.
The daughters, before their marriage, generally lived with
their mother and were educated and supported by her, and
after their marriage received some allowance for their supp6rt,
the extent of which need not be considered. It is undoubted
that after their marriage dissatisfaction on the part of the
daughters and their husbands ensued because of the failure of
the mother to account and finally settle the estate of the
father. This dissatisfaction culminated a short while before
January 1, 1901, by the bringing of a suit in the District Court
of Porto Rico, in which the succession of the father was pending, seeking to compel the mother to account and distribute
the estate. In this suit the daughters were both represented
by their attorney, Mr. Cuadra. Shortly after the commencement of this proceeding an asserted understanding was had
between the mother and her daughters for the entire settlement of all matters relative to the property which had -come
into her possession and under her control- as the result of the
death of her husband and her minor son, 'the issue of the first
marriage. The settlement was embodied in -a writing dated
the sixteenth day of January, 1901, and signed by the parties
and witnesses, among these witnesses being Mr. Cuadra, the
lawyer of the two daughters, and Mr. Landron, a lawyer who
represented the mother in the negotiations which preceded
the agreement. The agreement, which is in the margin,' pur1 First. Dona Manuela Gutman, widow of Bustelo, in her own proper
right shall deliver immediately to her daughters by her first marriage, named'
Dona Maria Gaudalupe Rios, widow of Rubio, and -Dona Petronila Patricia

GARZOT
209 U. S.

V. DE

RUBIO.

Opinion of the Court.

ported by way of transaction to adjust all controversies as to
the property between the mother and daughters, and to accomplish this purpose transferred to the mother in full ownerRios de Noya, all the lands and tenements comprised in the plantation known
as "San Jos6 de las Mulas," situated in this jurisdiction, with the exception
of a lot of land forty cuerdas in extent, belonging now to the succession of her
second husband, Mr. Bustelo, and acquired by said succession at a public
auction.
Second. In the same manner Senora Gutman shall immediately deliver
to the above-named daughters of her first marriage the lands which form the
estate called "Culo Prieto," in the jurisdiction of Naguabo.
Third. Dona Manuela Gutman shall retain for herself, and as sole and exclusive owner with all property rights, all the lands that may be found remaining in the jurisdiction of Naguabo, left at the death of her first husband,
Don Jos6 Rios y Berrios, or, approximately nine hundred cuerdas.
Fourth. In view of the fact that by this instrument the co-ownership,
existing until now, in the hereditary estate left at the death of the intestate
Don Jose Rios y Berrios, becomes finally dissolved, it is by this settlement
understdod and agreed that each contracting party hereto becomes the exclusive owner of her share without reservation or limitation of any kind.
Fifth. As soon as this settlement shall be signed before witnesses by the
contracting parties, without prejudice to its being converted into a public
document within the. space of forty-eight hours following the day of its date,.
or as soon as the notary of this town may return to his office, the lawyers of
Mrs. Gutman and her daughters shall put a stop to all their mutual judicial
proceedings, not only as to the voluntary suit touching the estate of Don
Jos6 Rios y Berrios, but also as to all collateral and appellate matters.
Sixth. The lawyers, JoEd Maria Cuadra and Rafael Lopez Landron, the
first representing Dona Maria Guadalupe and Dona Petronila Patricia, and
the second representing Dona Manuela Gutman, become hereby obliged to
conclude this settlement in a manner which shall carry the same to conclusion
without loss of time, so as to leave each interested party in full possession
of what belongs to her by this agreement and furnished with their respective
titles of property as inscribed in the books of the registry, free from every
charge and lien.
Seventh. The expenses of this settlement, that is, the deeds, the expenses
of registration, the means of ratifying this settlement before the courts,
aside from the fees of the lawyers, shall be to the exclusive account of Dona
Manuela Gutman.
Eighth. Moreover, on the occasion of this arrangement, which the interested parties esteem as highly convenient, Dona Maria and Dona Petronila
find themselves satisfied with the correctness observed by their mother, in
the very troublesome duty of preserving so large an estate for the term of so
many years, in spite of the very serious difficulties overtaking the estate; the
said Mrs. Gutman reserves to herself the right to present to her daughters

VOL. ccIx-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

ship certain described properties,, left by the first husband,
situated in the district of Naguabo, and to the two daughters
in joint equal undivided ownership a certain estate situated
in Naguabo, and also a much larger estate situated in Humacao, both of which also at the death of the first husband
stood in his name and had passed into the -possession of his
widow, in virtue of her administration or usufruct.
In April, 1901, Mr. Cuadra, as the attorney of the
daughters
Maria and Petronila, and Mr. Landron, as the attorney of the
mother Manuela, instituted in the District Court of Humacao
a proceeding under the Spanish mortgage law to have the legal
title to the property referred to in the agreement put of record.
The prayer was that the property referred to in the agreement
and thereby transferred to the mother be placed of record in
her name as the full owner thereof, and that the property referred to in such agreement, transferred to the two daughters,
be placed in their names as the full owners. Conformably to
solemn proof of the honesty with which she has acted up to this day, and a
detailed and approved statement of the very grave misfortunes against which
the estate has struggled during the long time in which she has administered
it.
Ninth. Because of her being better acquainted than any other of the interested parties with the claims of all kinds which may now .be pending or
are to be established in favor of the estate left at the death of Don Jos6
Maria Rios y Berrios, Mrs. Manuela de Gutman is commissioned to continue
or begin such reclamacions within the shortest time possible, it being well
understood that the amounts obtained from these claims shall be considered
into three equal parts for the advantage and use of Mrs. Gutman and her
said two daughters by her first husband.
Thus the three contracting parties sign before the witnesses who are present and the lawyers, who likewise subseribe the same as parties thereto, in
Humacao this 16th day of January, 1901.
(Signed)
MANUELA G., Widow of Bustelo.
MARIA Rios, Widow of Rubo.
PETRONILA PATRICIA Rios DE NOYA.
Lawyer Josh MARIA CUADRA.
Lawyer RAFAEL LoPEz LANDRON.
FRANcIsco NOYA.
M. AoUFSO.
JEsus ALMIaOTY.

GARZOT
209 U. S.

V. DE

RUBIO.

Opinion of the Court.

the Spanish law, citation was issued to other vicinal owners,
and publication in the official gazette of a notice of the application was made under the order of the court. Before the application was acted upon by the court Cuadra withdrew as
the counsel of record for the daughter Maria, and Mr. Juan F.
Vias appeared on the record as her attorney, and filed in her
behalf what is. styled "in opposition to the proceedings."
The motion by which this was done prayed that the "said
proceeding

.

.

be approved in its main part with the

.

expressed declaration that the properties acquired by Dona
Manuela Gutman are so acquired as heir ab-intestate of her
son Jos6 Rios Gutman and those belonging to his client and
to her sister
father . .

.
.

from the inheritance of their deceased
and that in case that this decision should not
.

.

be deemed proper then that the approval of the proceedings
brought be absolutely denied, for the reason that in the petition the true title of the acquisition of the properties adjudicated to the petitioner Senora Gutman, widow of Bustelo, is
not set forth therein." In addition, in the record of the proceeding it is recited that for the purpose of the decision of the
opposition which he made to the application for the registry
of the titles in accordance with the agreement, the lawyer of
Maria, Mr. Vias, "accepted as his own the evidence proposed
by Lawyers Lopez Landron y Cuadra, with the addition of
such documentary evidence as was filed by him and is attached
to the record, which said evidence was admitted." The court,
on November 16, 1901, allowed the petition for the registry
.of title according to the agreement and overruled the opposition. The considerations which led the court to this conclusion were thus stated by it:
"Whereas, in accordance with the provisions of sections 1809
and 1816 of the Civil. Code, a compromise agreed upon and
adjusted between capable persons upon a licit matter is not
only a valid and efficient contract, but it further has for the
contracting parties the authority of res judicata; and
"Whereas, the opposition to. proceedings of dominio au-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

thorized by section 395 of the mortgage law is that of third
persons cited for the proceeding and introduction of evidence
and in no manner can such opposition be made by any of the
parties soliciting the said dominio; and
"Whereas, Dona Manuel Rios, I mean Dona Maria Rios,
widow of Rubio, is one of the solicitors of the said proceeding,
she has signed the compromise which is the basis for instituting
the said proceeding, she has agreed upon the adjudication to
each of the interested parties according to the terms of the
compromise (clauses 3 and 4) she has accepted as her own the
corroborative evidence of the very facts of the compromise and
she cannot exercise legally against her own acts such actions
as could be exercised by strange pergons to the institution of
dominio proceedings; and
"Whereas, it is left to the court to consider the weight of the
evidence introduced and the allegations made approving or
disapproving the claims made and making the declarations that
the dominio has been justified; and
"Whereas, the court after a consideration of the true value
and extent of the evidence introduced it is of the opinion that
a writ of approval of this proceeding should issue."
The daughter Maria prosecuted an appeal to the Supreme
Court of Porto Rico, sitting as a court of cassation.
We do not refer to many matters discussed at bar concerning the relations between the mother and her daughter Maria
which took place pending the appeal, because those subjects
are not referred to in the findings. In April, 1902, while the
appeal was pending, the mother Manuela sold the properties
which had been transferred to her by virtue of the agreement,
and had been recorded in her name as full owner, to Victor
Burset, who had married one of her daughters by the second
marriage. Burset in turn sold the properties to Palmer, and
mortgages were put upon them. Palmer sold some of the
property to Garzot and Fuertes, and a portion of the land was
sold by him to Petronila, the sister of Maria. In June, 1902,
Mrs. Manuela Gutman died, and in the same month of the

GARZOT v. DE RUBIO.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

same year the appeal taken from the decree of the District
Court, ordering the titles recorded in accordance with the
agreement, was affirmed by the Supreme Court. The court
in its opinion, after reciting the appearance and opposition of
Maria to the application to register the titles, concluded by
observing:
"Considering that even supposing that the construction
given by the trial court to article 395 of the mortgage law was
erroneous, in holding in one of its conclusions of law that
Dona Maria Rios could not oppose the proceeding of dominion because she instituted it in conjunction with her mother
Dona Manuela and her sister Dona Petronila, the reversal of
the order appealed from would not-be proper, as it would be
always sustained by the essential and necessary foundation
of the same, which is the declaration made by the District
Court of Humacao of having been proven the dominion of
the properties in question, without any limitation or reservation whatsoever,- which declaration cannot be discussed in
cassation, because the appeal of cassation was not founded
upon paragraph 7 of article 1690 of the Law of Civil Procedure.
Considering that the order appealed from conforms to all the
claims made by the parties and does not grant more than was
prayed for, as it is thereby granted the prayer made by Dona
Manuela Gutman and her daughters Dona Maria and Dona
Petronila in the petition instituting the ex parte proceeding
of dominion, and the claim made by Dona Maria through her
attorney Don Juan F. Vias is denied."
Again, we do not stop to consider many matters referred
to by counsel which it is deemed conclusively show that the
daughter Maria accepted the decision of the Supreme Court
as final, and acted upon the assumption that she was the owner
of the property allotted to her by the agreement, because the
matters thus relied upon are also but a part of the evidence
and not embraced in the findings below made. About one
year after the death of the mother and the decisibn of the Supreme Court of Porto Rico, the bill by which this cause was

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion'of the Court.

209 U. S.

commenced was filed on behalf of the daughter Maria, alleging
herself to be a citizen of Spain. The only defendants made
to the bill were her sister Petronila, Burset and his wife, Palmer
-and his wife, Garzot and Fuertes, and several others, who it
was alleged had acquired an interest in the property sold by
the mother to Burset and by him transferred as above stated.
Demurrers were filed by some of the defendants. The court
allowed the bill to be amended, and ordered that as amended
it be rewritten. In substance the bill, as rewritteR, alleged.
the death of the father, the leaving of the three minor children,
herself included, the-death of the brother, and-the taking by
the mother of. the preliminary probate steps to administer the
property, and the death of the mother. It alleged that at the
time of his death the father had left certain property, which
was specifically described, the property thus described being
only that which had been transferred to the mother by virtue
of the agreement. It was alleged that the complainant was
the owner of an undivided half: of the property thus described
as heir of her father and brother, and "that the said property
was separate property of said Jos6 Maria Rios, theretofore
derived by inheritance from his father and mother and by
purchase from his sisters with his separate funds." The bill
then with great amplitude alleged a conspiracy and combination between the mother and sister Petronila to defraud the
complainant by obtaining a title to the property described in
order to benefit the children of the second marriage, and
charged that the lawyers Landrgn' and Cuadra, as parties to
this conspiracy, had united with the mother and sister by deceit and fraud to secure the agreement, concealed or had misrepresented its contents, and, in furtherance of the same conspiracy, prosecuted the proceedings in the courts of Porto
Rico. It then alleged that in execution of the said conspiracy
the mother had sold the property transferred to her after the
decree putting the title in her name had been rendered by the
District Court; that Burset, the purchaser from her, and all
those holding under him, were cognizant of the fraud and held

GARZOT
209 U. S.

V. DE

RUBIO.

Opinion of the Court.

fraudulent and simulated titles. No reference was made in
the bill, except inferentially, to the property which had been
transferred to the complainant by the agreement and which
had been put in her name in virtue of the decree of registry.
The bill contained an allegation that a copy of the agreement
could not be produced because it had been concealed from the
complainant, and also contained a charge that the mother had
refused to deliver to the complainant the property which had
been transferred to her by such agreement. The prayer of the
bill was for a decree recognizing complainant as the absolute
owner of one-half the property described in the bill, that is,
that which had been transferred to the mother; the annulment
of the decree of the District Court of Porto Rico, executing
the agreement; the erasure of the inscriptions of title resulting therefrom, and for the annulment of the sale to Burset, and
all the transfers of title by sale, mortgage or otherwise consequent thereon. Shortly afterwards the bill was amended by
detailed averments, charging that the proceedings in the District Court of Porto Rico for the registry of the title were
wholly void, that they were instituted by Cuadra in the name
of the complainant without authority and with full knowledge
on his part that she did not accept the agreement, and consequently not only that decree but the affirmance thereof by
the Supreme Court of Porto Rico were without effect upon the
rights of the complainant. in accordance with these averments
a prayer was inserted, asking that the decrees of both the
Porto Rican courts and the registry of title consequent thereon
be held to be void. , In addition it was prayed "that an account
be taken of all the foregoing properties and assets [referring to
the properties which had been allotted to the mother by the
private agreement], and all other properties in which complainant may have an interest; that a master be appointed
to take such accounting'and ascertain all the property, real,
personal and mixed, belonging to the estate of Don Jos6 Maria
Rios and Dona Manuela Gutman and Don Jos6 Rios, y Gutman,
and the participation or interest therein which corresponds

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

to your oratrix, and upon the filing of this report this court
shall decree a partition and division thereof in the proportion
of one-half to your oratrix, and shall declare by its decree the
right of your oratrix as aforesaid in and to the same." Finally,
after all the testimony was closed, just prior to the submission
of the cause, the court allowed an amendment concerning the
value of the pieces of property described in the bill, and which
had been allotted to the complainant by the private agreement, and permitted the striking out of the averment that
some of those properties had been purchased by the father
from his sisters with his separate funds.
The various defendants pleaded res adjudicata,.basedupon
the decrees of the District and the Supreme Court putting the
agreement of record. Petronila, moreover, pleaded a judgment
asserted to have been rendered in a proceeding which it was
alleged had been brought by the complainant Maria in an insular District Court to set aside the agreement. Although the
judgment thus pleaded purported to be annexed to the plea,
it was nqt so annexed, and no reference to such judgment, if
any, or to the suit in which it was rendered, is contained in
the findings of fact below. The pleas having been overruled,
answers were filed traversing all the charges of fraud as to the
agreement, as to the proceedings to enforce the same, and as
to the sales or contracts concerning the property which that
agreement had' transferred to the mother.
The court decreed the agreement to be void for fraud. It
decided that the jadment of the District Court, affirmed by
the Supreme Court, was void for the same reason. It therefore directed the erasare from the public records of the registry
of title which had arisen from tlie inscription of the judgment.
The complainant was held to be the perfect owner, not only of
an undivided half of the property which had been allotted to
the mother by the agreement, and which was described in
the bill, but also a like owner of an undivided half of the property which the agreenent had allotted to her, and it was directed that the judgnient be inscribed in order to constitute

GARZQT
209 U. S.

V. DE

RUBIO.

Opinion of the Court.

a muniment of title to the property. Among the findings of
fact upor. which the decree was based was one finding that
although a liquidation and settlement of the estates of the
father, mother and son had been prayed, such settlement was
not essential, as full relief could be afforded Without an accounting.
Before coming to consider such of the assignments of error
as are within our cognizance, we are admonished that we must
first determine whether the necessary parties are before us to
justify us in deciding the case on the merits. And this inquiry
also involves determining whether the necessary parties were
before the court below to authorize it to make the decree which
itentered.
Our duty in the matter was thus stated in Minnesota v.
Northern Securities Company, 184 U. S. 199, 235:
"The established practice of courts of equity to dismiss the
plaintiff's bill, if it appears that to grant the relief prayed for
would injuriously affect persons materially interested in the
subjedt-matter who are not made palties to the suit, is founded
upon clear reasons, and may be enforced by the court, sua
sponte, though not raised by the pleadings or suggested by
the counsel. Shields v. Barrow, 17 How. 130; Hipp v. Babin,
19 How. 271, 278; Parker v.. Winnipiseogee Lake Cotton and
Woolen Co., 2 Black, 545."
Again:
"The general rule in equity is that all persons materially
interested, either legally or beneficially, in the subject-matter
of a suit, are to be made parties to it, so that there may be a
complete decree, which shall bind them all. By this means
the court is enabled to make a complete decree between the
parties, to prevent future litigation, by taking away the necessity of a multiplicity of suits, and to make it perfectly certain that no injustice is done, either to the parties before it,
or to others who are interested in the subject-matter, by a
decree which might otherwise be granted upon a partial view
only of, the real merits. When all the parties are before the

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

court the whole case may be seen; but it may not where
all the conflicting interests are not brought out upon the
pleadings. by the original parties thereto. Story's Eq. Plds.
sec. 72."
Whether the necessary parties are here or were before the
court below involves a consideration of the case in a fourfold
aspect: first, as to the agreement; second, as to the decrees
of the District and Supreme Court; third, as to the contracts
made by the mother or those holding under her in consequence
of the agreement and the registry of the title which it created;
fourth, as to the nature and character of the rights with which
the agreement was concerned, and the effect of the relief
sought in consequence of the prayer for the annulment of that
agreement.
The agreement was made between the complainant, her
sister Petronila and the mother. Now, although the bill was
brought after the mother's death and alleged the existence
of children of the second marriage, who were, of course, entitled to participate in their mother's estate, neither the estate
of the mother nor such children of the second marriage were
made parties to the cause. But either or both the estate and
these children were necessary parties to the determination
of the rights of the mother under the agreement. It is no
answer to say they were not because the property with which
the agreement was concerned came from the estate of the first
husband, in which the mother and her children of the second
marriage had no interest, since such an assumption but disregards the nature and character of the title createdl by the
agreement, and therefore presupposes that its validity could
be judicially determined in the absence of the parties whose
rights were necessarily involved. And this is also true as to
the judgments of the District and the Supreme Court of Porto
Rico. The mother was not only a party to those judgments
but a beneficiary thereof, and the presence of her estate or
heirs was essentially necessary to a determination of whether
those judgments were the result of fraud, and the nature and

GARZOT v.
209 U.S.

DE

RUBIO.

Opinion of the Court.

extent of their operation upon the recorded title. Manifest
also is it that the same reasoning is controlling as to the relief which the bill sought concerning the salc made by the
mother to Burset of the property transferred to her by the
agreement and held by others under or as a consequence of
that sale. We say this because it is apparent that to determine
the validity of the sale or sales in the absence of the estate of
,the mother or her heirs would be in effect to pass upon the
rights of the estate or heirs without a hearing. Demonstrative as are the foregoing considerations as to the want of power
in the absence.of the estate of the mother or her heirs to annul
the agreement and the title which apparently flowed therefrom, and to collaterally avoid the decrees of the Porto Rican
courts concerning the same and to set aside as simulated and
fraudulent the sales made in virtue of the title at least apparently vested by the agreement, they all become more controlling when the nature and character of the rights with
which the agreement dealt are taken into view. Between the
husband and wife, by virtue of the marriage, in the absence of
a contract to the contrary, a legal community supervened.
Porto Rican Civil Code, Art. 1315. And although the code
was not in force in 1866, when the marriage took place, the
same rule, as we have already said, was then controlling under
the more ancient Spanish law. Partidas, 5 Ll. 57, 59. See also
the statement of the ancient Spanish law on the subject in
Bruneau v. Bruneau, 9 Martin (La.), 217. The community
thus arising by operation of law embraced all "the earnings
or profits indiscriminately obtained by either of the consorts
during the marriage." Civil Code of Porto Rico, Article 1392.
The community also embraced all "property acquired during
the marriage by onerous title at the expense of the community
property whether the acquisition is made for the community
or for only one of the consorts." Article 1401. Besides it
embraced in the joint ownership many other things which it
i§ unnecessary to enumerate and which are fully set out in
the articles of the code following those just cited. And the

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

code, for, the purpose of protecting the community and securing a just liquidation of the respective interests in the same,
expressly provides, Article 1407, that "All the property of a
marriage shall be considered as community property until it
is proven that it belongs exclusively to the husband or to the
wife." Although the presumption thus created was not expressed in the text of the Partidas, it was from ancient times
a part of the Spanish law, having been declared in Ley, 203,
Del Estilo (A. D. 1566), and such presumption common to
both the Code Napoleon and the Louisiana Code (Code Napoleon, Art. 1403; Louisiana Code, Art. 2405), was, in express
terms, embodied in Law 5, title 4, book 10, of the Novisima
Recopilacion. In speaking of the ancient Spanish law on the
subject in Savenat v. Le Breton, 1 Louisiana, 520, 522, the
court said:
"This question must be decided according to the Spanish
laws relating to rights which subsist in the marriage state
between the parties to the matrimonial contract. By these
laws 'everything purchased during the marriage fell into the
common stock of gains, and at the death of either of the parties was to be divided equally between the survivor and the
heirs of the deceased. And this effect was produced whether
purchases were made with the money or capital of the community or with that of either f the married parties, whether
in the name of both, or that of one of them separately. See
Febrero add. part 2, lib. 1, chap. 4, sec. 1, no. 6."
And the text of the Novisima concerning the presumption
was expounded and applied by the Supreme Court of Spain
on May 7, 1868, in a case which came before it from Havana.
Jurisprudencia Civil, vol. 17, No. 124, pp. 435-439. It is undoubted that all the real estate to which the agreement related was acquired by the husband after the marriage, and
therefore was controlled, generally speaking, by the presumption of community. True it is, that the bill, as originally
drawn, alleged that some of the property which was transferred to the mother by the agreement was acquired by in-

GARZOT v.
209 U. S.

DE

RUBIO.

.301

Opinion of the Court.

heritance by the husband and others'by purchase, and that
just before the hearing the court permitted an amendment
striking out the words "by purchase," so as in effect to cause
the bill to allege that the property transferred to the mother
by the private agreement had been acquired by the husband
by inheritance. But no averment tending in any way to deflect the legal presumption of community as to property acquired during marriage was made concerning the property
allotted to the daughters, by the agreement, and which the
bill, as amended, sought to administer and distribute. This
being the case, it follows that the necessary effect of the bill,
.as amended, was to assert that, notwithstanding the legal
presumption of community, the interest of the deceased wife
in the property could be determined without the presence of
her estate or of her heirs who were directly interested.
It does not meet this difficulty to suggest that the effect of
the agreement was to close the question of community, since
the ground upon- Which the relief was sought was that the
agreement was void. Nor is there merit in ihe suggestion that
the presence of the estate of the mother or her heirs was not
necessary because the court below found as a fact either that
there was no community property, or if there was, that no accounting or liquidation was essential. But these findings
could not be made in the absence of the estate of the mother
or her heirs without in effect denying a hearing to those vitally
interested.
While the considerations previously stated establish the impossibility of affirming, and the necessity for reversing and remanding, they also engender the inquiry whether, in view of
the nature and character of the relief sought by the bill, it is
our duty to remand for a new trial, or with directions to dismiss the bill because of an inherent want of jurisdiction to
give the relief which the bill sought.
Putting out of view for a moment the averments and prayer
of the bill relating to the nullity of the private agreement, and
the sales made of the property which was transferred by that

OCTOBER TERM; 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

agreement to the mother, we think it is patent on the face of
the bill that it but invoked the authority of the court to exercise purely probate jurisdiction by administering and settling
the estate of Rios, the estate of his son, and that of the mother,
and, as an incident thereof, to liquidate the community which
had existed between lios and his wife. Indeed, such was
exactly the substantive relief which the bill as finally amended
prayed. As by the bill it is alleged that on the death of the
father and brother probate proceedings concerning both estates had been commenced in the proper Porto Rican court,
it results that not only did the bill seek to administer the
estates through the court below, but it sought also to do so,
although the estates were open in the local court and subject
to the power and authority of such court. In establishing a
civil government for Porto Rico, Congress, scrupulously regarding the local institutions and laws, by § 33 of the act of
April 12, 19':0, preserved1 the local courts, both original and
appellate, and recognized their power and authority to deal
generally with all matters of local concern. In creating by
the thirty-fourth section of the same act the District Court of
the United States for Porto R ico, the jurisdiction and power
of that court, we think by the very terms of the act, were
clearly fashioned upon and intended to be made, as far as applicable, like unto the jurisdiction exercised by the Circuit and
District Courts of the United States within the several States
of the Union. It is true that the jurisdiction of the District
Court, resulting from citizenship, has been made broader than
that conferred upon, the Circuit and District Courts of the
United States within the States. But this does not tend in
any way to establish that it was the purpose of Congress, in
creating the. District Court of the United States for Porto
Rico, to endow that court with an authority not possessed by
the courts of the United States (Farrell v. O'Brien, 199 U. S.
89), to exercise purely probate jurisdiction to administer and
settle estates in disregard of the authority of the local court as
created and defined by law.

GARZOT v.
209 U. S.

DE

RUBIO.

Opinion of the Court.

By the Porto Rican Code of Civil Procedure (article 62,
paragraph 5), power to administer estates, both testamentary
and intestate, is vested in the judge of the last place of residence of the deceased. That the power thus conferred is exclusive is shown by the text of the same article and by the
comprehensive grant of authority embraced in the provisions
of the code which follow, relating to the settlement of both
testamentary and intestate successions. That it embraces
authority to entertain and dispose of all actions, whether real
or personal, necessarily incidental to the accomplishment of
the powers granted over estates, is shown by the proyisions
of article 1001 of the same code. The similarity between the
provisions of the Louisiana code as to the community and the
analogy' which obtains between the provisions of the Louisiana
Code of Practice and the Code of Civil Procedure of Porto Rico,
concerning the power of the judge or court charged with the
administration of estates, whether testamentary or intestate,
especially where questions concerning the liquidation of a
community, which has existed between husband and wife, is
concerned, make pertinent the observations of the Supreme
Court of Louisiana in Lawson et ux. v. Ripley, 17 Louisiana,
238, 248, where it was said:
"The succession of the husband, is therefore so far connected
with the community as to form together, at the time of his
death, an entire mass called his estate, which is not only liable
for the payment of the common debts, but also for the portion of the wife or her heirs to the residue, if they have not renounced. The widow or her repre.-entatives have consequently
such an interest in the mass of the estate or succession of the
husband, with regard to whom no distinction is made between
his separate property and that of the community until the net
proceeds or amount of the acquets and gains are ascertained,
that their assistance at the inventory and their concurrence
at all the proceedings relative thereto, which are to be carried
on contradictorily with them, are generally required. All
such proceedings take place before the court of probates who,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

according to law, has exclusive jurisdiction of all the matters
concerning the estate, particularly in those cases where it is
in a course of administration; and it does not occur to us
that separate proceedings can properly be had in relation to
the community, until after the settlement of the husband's
estate and the payment of the common debts, and division of the residue of the acquets and gains is to be made
between the heirs of the deceased and the surviving spouse;
and even then the affairs of the husband's estate, administered under the control and supervision of the court of probates, are to be inquired into and sometimes fully investigated."
True it is that by article 1046 of the Porto Rican Code of
Civil Procedure the parties interested in an estate which is
unsettled and under the dominion of the proper court are
given power to terminate the estate by a voluntary agreement
between them, and that such may have been the effect of the
agreement between the parties here in question if the same was
valid. But as the bill charged and the relief which it asked was
based upon the conception that the agreement was void, it
follows that the relief which the bill sought could, only have
proceeded upon the hypothesis that the estate had not been
closed, and was yet subject to be administered in the proper
court. And that this was the theory of the bill is shown by
the prayer that the court appoint a master to liquidate and
settle the estates.
Coming to consider the subject from the point of view of
the averments as to the nullity of the agreement and the fraudulent simulation of the sales, it is clear that the relief sought.
in this regard was merely ancillary to the prayer for the liquidation and settlement of 'the estates. As we take judicial
notice of the fact that the distinctions between law and equity
in a technical sense do not obtain in the local law of Porto
Rico, and as under that law a court charged With, the administration of an estate is one of general as well as probate jurisdiction and has full power over all personal and real actions

GARZOT
209 U. S.

V.

DE RUBIO.

Opinion of the Court.

concerning the estate, it follows that the local court had in
the nature of things power to determine, as an incident to its
general and probate authority, whether the estate had been
closed by the agreement, and hence to decide whether that
agreement was void, and had also jurisdiction and power to
determine whether the property which had been transferred
to the mother by the agreement yet remained a part of the
estate, and as an incident to so doing to decide the questions
of fraud and simulation which were alleged in the bill. Of
course, the general scope of the authority which the court then
possessed endowed it with the power to liquidate and settlt
the community which existed between the husband and wife,
as that liquidation was of necessity involved in the settlement
of the estate. Speaking on this latter subject in Lawson et
ux. v. Ripley, supra, the Supreme Court of Louisiana said
(p. 249):
"But it is contended that this would be giving to the court
of probates the right of trying questions of title. Probate
courts have certainly no power to try titles to real estate, and
to decide directly on the validity of such titles; but as this court
has said in the case of Gill v. Phillipset al., 6 Martin N. S.298,
'those courts possess all powers necessary to carry their jurisdiction into effect, and when in the exercise of that jurisdiction questions arise collaterally they must, of necessity, decide them, for if they could not no other court could.' And,
'any other construction would present a singular species of
judicial power-the right to decree a partition, without the
authority to inquire into the grounds on which it should be
ordered, or the portions that each of the parties should take.
The end would thus be conceded without the means.' Baillo
v. Wilson, 5 Martin N. S.217. We are satisfied that whenever
a question of title to real property and slaves arises collaterally
in a court of probates, and an examination of it becomes necessary in order to give the court the means of arriving at a
correct conclusion on matters of which it has jurisdiction, it
must take cognizance of such title at least for the purpose of
VOL. ccix-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

209 U. S.

ascertaining Which property belongs to either of the spouses
respectively or to the community."
The decree is reversed and the case is remanded to the court
below, with directions to dismiss the bill for -want of jurisdiction over the subject matter.

UNITED STATES FIDELITY AND GUARANTY COMPANY v. UNITED STATES FOR THE USE AND BENEFIT OF STRUTHERS WELLS COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 154.

Argued March 5, 1908.-Decided April 6, 1908.

There is always a strong presumption that a statute was not meant to act
retrospectively, and it should never receive such a construction if susceptible of any other, nor unless the words are so clear, strong and imperative as to have no other meaning.
The act of February 24, 1905, c. 778, 33 Stat. 811, amending the act of August 13, 1894, c. 280, 28 Stat. 278, is prospective and does not relate to
or affect actions based on rights of materi:il-men which had accrued prior
to its passage, and such actions are properly brought under the act of 1394.
The absolute taking away of a present right to sue and suspending it until
after certain events have happened, and the giving of preferences between
creditors, are not mere matters of procedure but affect substantial rights,
and as the act of February 24, 1905, consists of but a single section and
deals with such subjects and only incidentally applies to procedure, the
entire statute must be construed under the general rule that it is not retrospective in any respect.
151 Fed. Rep. 534, affirmed.

THIS is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit, which brings up for review the judgment of
that court affirming that of the Circuit Court of the Eastern
District of New York in favor of the defendant in error (plain-

