OCTOBER TERAI, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

merits. The fallacy which underlies this argument is the
assumption that the act of 1891 contemplates several separate
appeals in the same case and at the same time to two appellate
courts. No such provision can be found in the act, either m
express terms or by implication. The true purpose of the
act, as gathered from its context, is that the writ of error, or
the appeal, may be taken only after final judgment, except in
the cases specified in section 7 of the act. When that judgment is rendered, the party against whom it is rendered must
elect whether he will take his writ of error or appeal to the
Supreme Court upon the question of jurisdiction alone, or to
the Circuit Court of Appeals upon the whole case, if the
latter, then the Circuit Court of Appeals may, if it deem
proper, certify the question of jurisdiction to this court.
The writ of error is
Dismss8ed.

FERRY v. KIMG COUNTY
XRROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON.
INIo.
1377. Submitted November 23,189f. -Decided December 7, 1891.
In an action against the county treasurer of a county in the State of Washington and the sureties on his officiat bond to recover moneys received by
him -officially rulings of the state court that his settlements with the
county commissioners were not conclusive, that that body acted ministerially in settling with him and could not absolve him from the duty to
account and pay over, and that the denial by the trial court of 'an order
to furnish a bill of particulars would not be disturbed in the absence of
anything indicating that the defendants had been prejudiced thereby, do
not deny the validity of the territorial code enacted under the authority
of Congress, and confer no jurisdiction in error upon this court.
The validity of a statute is not drawn in quesTion every time that rights
clauned under it are controverted, nor is the validity of an authority
every time an act done by such authority is disputed.

THE case was stated by the court as follows

This was an action brought by the county f King in the
District Court of the Third Judicial District of the Territory

FERRY v. KING COUNTY.
Statement of the Case.

of Washington, against George D. Hill and his sureties upon
his official bond as county treasurer of said county, to recover
certain moneys received by him during his official term of two
years, commencing the first Monday in January, 1881, which
it is alleged he had failed to account for or to pay over to his
successor in office.
The complaint set up Hill's election, the execution and
approval of the bond, which was set forth 'n aec verba the
taking of the oath and entry upon the office and continuance
therein for the full term, the receipt of moneys as treasurer,
and the failure to account for and pay over a large sum, which
was specified. It was further averred that in the accounts by
the treasurer and auditor, and settlements. had with the board
of county commissioners, the treasurer was charged with a
certain amount for which he accounted, when by mistake and
error there was overlooked a certain sum, which was named,
which should have been charged him, and was not, and that
also in the book accounts kept and settlements.had the treasurer received certain credits, which were enumerated, some of
which credits were by mistake and error larger than they
should have been, and the excess of each of these credits was
specifically given.
Motions to quash the summons, demurrers to the complaint
and motions to make the complaint more definite, were made
and filed by the defendants and overruled. The defendants
then 'nswered, denying the default of the treasurer, and pleading in addition affirmative defences, alleging various settlements at times prescribed by law between the treasurer and
the board of 6ounty commissioners, and insisting upon sugh
settlements and the accounts and credits as settled and allowed, as just and true and a complete defence to the action.
Plaintiff replied to the affirmative defences, denying a full
or any settlement with the board of county commissioners,
and again averring mistake and error, through which the
treasurer received credits on account of the particular funds
mentioned, to which he was not actually entitled.
Motions were then made to strike out part of the reply, and
to make it more definite and certain, and demurrers were also
filed thereto, all of which were overruled.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

The cause was then referred to a referee to take testimony,
and to make and report his findings of fact and conclusions of
law, which report having been subsequently made, the defendants moved to set it aside and for a new trial upon the following grounds "1. Irregularity in the proceedings on the part
of the plaintiff in this, that said plaintiff failed to set forth or
specify in the pleadings the items of the account sued on, and
failed and refused to furnish defendants the items of said account-after a proper demand therefor before the trial. 2. Irregularity in the proceedings of said referee in admitting in
evidence said account offered by said plaintiff, notwithstanding
the failure of said plaintiff to either set forth in the pleadings
the items of the account sued on or furnish said items to the
defendants after a proper demand therefor before the trial and
against defendants' objections, made at the time of the offer
of said evidence. 3. Irregularity in the proceedings and abuse
of discretion on the part of the referee in admitting in evidence, against defendants' objections, original books, papers
and documents which are public records required by law to
be and remain in the custody of the auditor of King County
4. Error in the assessment of the amount of the recovery, the
amount as per findings being too -large. 5. Insufficiency of
the evidence to justify the said findings and decision of the
said referee. 6. The said findings and decision of the referee
are against law 7. Error in law occurring at the trial and
excepted to at the time by-the defendants."
This motion was denied and judgment rendered upon the
findings of the referee, in favor of the plaintiff and against
the defendants. The Territory having been admitted into the
Union, the case was taken on error to the Supreme Court of
the State. Prior to this, Hyde, one of the defendants, died,
and his executors, a~iling to join in the writ of error, were
made defendants in error. After the cause was docketed
in the Supreme Court Hill died, and his executors were
substituted.
Eleven errors were assigned by plaintiffs in error as grounds
for the reversal of the judgment. These questioned the rulings of the District Court upon the various motions and de-

FERRY v. KING COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

murrers, and the action of that court in denying the motion
of defendants to set aside the report of the referee, and to
grant a new trial.

On April 6, 1891, the judgment was affirmed. The opinion
of the Supreme Court by Anders, C. T., is returned in the
record, and may be found, (in the absence of the official series,)
reported in 26 Pacific Rep. 537.
To review this judgment a writ of error was allowed -from
this court, and the record having been filed, the cause came
on on a motion to dismiss or affirm.
.Mr John Paul Jones and .Ar
motion.
.M

J C.

leese I.

Toorhees for the

ianes opposing.

Mn. CREF JusTIcE

FuLua

delivered the opinion of the

court.
We have carefully examined the record in this case and have
failed to find any intimation of the submission of a Federal
question to the state court for decision, nor can we perceive
that the judgment rendered necessarily iivolved the disposition of such a question.
Plaintiffs in error seek to maintain the jurisdiction of this
court upon the ground that the validity of an authority exercised"under the United States was drawn in question in the
cause and the decision of the state court was against its
validity
By section 1851 of the Revised Statutes of the United States
it is provided that "The legislative power of every Territory
shall extend to all rightful subjects of legislation not inconsistent with the Constitution and laws of the United States."
The following are sections of the Code of Washington
"93. It shall not be necessary for a party to set forth in a
pleading a copy of the instrument of writing, or the items of
an account therein alleged, but unless he file a verified copy
thereof with such pleadings, and serve the same on the adverse
party, he shall, within ten days after a demand thereof, in

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

writing, deliver to the adverse party a copy of such instrument
of writing, or the items of an account, verified by his own
oath, or that of his agent or attorney, to the effect that he
believes it to be true, or be precluded from giving evidence
thereof."
"2673. The several boards of county commissioners are
5. To allow all accounts
authorized and required
legally chargeable against such county not otherwise provided
for, and to audit the accounts of all officers having the care,
management, collection or disbursement of any money belonging to the county or appropriated to its benefit."
"2681. The county commissioners of their respective counties shall have power to compound and release in whole or in
part any debt due to their county, when in their opinion the
"
interest of their county will not be prejudiced thereby
"2695. Any person may appeal from the decision of the
board of county commissioners to the next term of the District
"
Court of the proper district.
"2947. Each county treasurer must attend with his books
and vouchers before the board of county commissioners of his
county at its -May session in each year, and settle his accounts
" Wash. Code, pp. 49, 464, 466,
before said board,
467, 508.
The contention of plaintiffs in error is, in the language of
counsel, that "the legislature of the Territory of Washington,
by enacting these sections of the Code of Washington above
mentioned, exercised an authority given by section 1851 of
the Revised Statutes of the United States, and so acting, the
act of the territorial legislature became the act of Congress,
and the District Court of the Territory and the Supreme Court
of the State, in deciding against the validity of the several,
clauses of the code, decided against the validity of an authority
exercised under the United States."
But we do not understand that the validity of these sections
of the code was denied in any respect.
The Supreme Court held that the settlenients-of the treasurer with the board of county commissioners were not conclusive, that the board exercised no judicial power in making

FERlRY-v. KING COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

them, but acted merely ministerially, that there was no law
authorizing the board to absolve the treasurer from the performance of the duty to account and pay over, and that the
settlements were onlyrzmma facze evidence ana could not be
pleaded as an estoppel. As to the alleged failure to furnish
a copy of the items of account mentioned in the complaint,
the court held, for reasons given, that the provisions of the
statute had been substantially complied with, and as to the
denial by the District Court of an order for a bill of particulars, that that was a matter largely, discretionary with the
trial court and its ruling would not be disturbed in the absence
of anything indicating that the defendants were prejudiced
thereby
In all this there was no denial of the validity of the provisions of the code, nor of the validity of an authority exercised under the United States in the enactment of these sections.
The Supreme Court did indeed say that the territorial legislature could not have ciothed boards of county commissioners
with judicial powers in view of section 1907 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States, whereby the whole judicial
power was elsewhere reposed, but the opinion proceeded upon
the ground that the legislature had not attempted to do so.
We have repeatedly held that the validity of a statute is
not drawn m question every time rights claimed under such
statute are controverted, nor is the validity of an authority
every time an act done by such authority is disputed. Snow
v
nited State , 118 U. S. 346, 352, Baltnore & Potomac
.Railroadv Hopkins, 130 U. S. 210, Cook County v Calumet
& Clucago Canal and Dock Co., 138 U S. 635.
The validity neither of statute nor authority was primarily
denied here and the deuial.made the subject of direct inquiry,
nor was there any decision whatever against the validity of
statute or authority
The writ of error is
LkIsmtssed.

InRRY V.,KIXG COUNTY. Error to the Supreme Court of the State
of Washington. No. 1378. Submitted November 23,1891. Decided
VOL. CXL--43

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

December 7, 1891. MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER remarked that the
same questions were presented in this case as in that just decided,
and it must take the same course.
Dismissed.
Writ of error
lfr John Paul Jones and .Mi Reese H. Voorhees for the motion
to dismiss.

Mr J. C. Haines opposing.

MYERS v. GROOM SHOVEL COMPANY
PPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 70. Argued November 4, 1891.-Decided December 7, 1891.

Letters patent No. 208,258, granted September 24, 1878, to Henry Al. Myers
for an " mprovement in handle sockets for shovels, spades and scoops"
are void for want of novelty m the alleged invention covered by them,
that invention having been anticipated by the "Ames California spade."

TE case is stated in the opinion.
M2f

TIF Bakewell for appellant.

Mr _Fran sciT Chambers for appellee.
MNR. CHIEF lUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opminio

of the

court.
This was a bill exhibited by Henry M. Myers against The
Groom Shovel Company, in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Western District of Pennsylvania, for infringement of letters patent No. 208,258, dated September 24, 1878,
for "improvement in handle sockets for shovel, spades and
sodops."

The answer denled that Myers was the first inventor, and
set up want of novelty, public use and sale for more than two

