OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

BUTLER v. EATON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THR

DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 301. Argued March 23, 24,1891. -Decided

May 25, 1891.

Pacific National Bank v. Eaton, ante, 227, and Thayer v. Butler, ante, 234.,
affirmed and applied to this case.
An action between a plaintiff and a national bank, and an action between
the receiver of that bank as plaintiff and the plaintiff in the other action
as defendant, are substantially suits between the same parties.
A receiver of a national bank brought an action in a Circuit Court of the
United States to-recover the amount of an unpaid subscription to stock
of the bank. The defendant set up a judgment in her favor in the state
court on the same issue as an estoppel, and the Circuit Court held it to
be an estoppel. That judgment of the state court being brought before
this court by writ of error, was reversed here, and this court in the case
from the Circuit'Court, also brought here in error, held, that the judgment of the Circuit Court should be reversed, and the cause remanded
with directions to enter judgment for the receiver.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

.M'r A. A. Ranney for plaintiff in error.
.Ar J H. Benton, Jr., for defendant in error.
MR.JUSTIE

BRADLEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is a sequel to the case of Patft National Bank
v. Eaton, just decided. It was an action brought by the receiver of the Pacific National Bank of Boston against Mary
J Eaton to recover one hundred per cent of the amount of
her capital stock in said bank, on her individual liability as a
stockholder, under section 5151 of the Revised Statutes. The
amoiunt sued for was $8000 and interest thereon, being $4000
and interest for her original stock, and $4:000 and interest for
her new stock. IHer liability to pay the first sum was not
disputed. She consented to be defaulted for that, and that
judgment should be rendered against her. But she denied any

BUTLER v. EATOIN.
Opinion of the Court.

liability by reason of the new stock, and claimed a set-off for
the money she had paid on*it on the ground that she only paid
for stock which was to form part of an increased capital of
$500,000 and no such increase was ever made. By a subsequent
plea, puzs darrern continuance, after specially setting forth
the facts relating to said new stock, 4nd denying her liability
therefor, she pleaded in bar the judgment rendered in her
favor in regard thereto by the Supreme Judicial Court of
Massachusetts on the 10th day of May, 1887, which we have
just reversed. A jury was waived and the cause was tried by
the court upon an agreed statement of facts, including the record and judgment in the said action in the Supreme Judicial
Court of Massachusetts. The agreed statement of facts, with
the exception of the said judgment, is precisely the same mutatis mulndis, as in the case of 27tayer v Bvtler, ante, 234,
just decided, and so far as the case depends on said statement,
the same conclusion must be reached.
Upon a hearing of the whole case the Circuit Court gave
judgment in favor of the receiver for the amount of the- 40shares of stock originally held by Miss Eaton, with the interest thereon, but not for the amount of the 40 shares of new
stock. The ground of the judgment will appear by the following extract from the bill of exceptions
"The plaintiff objected to the competency of the record of
the case of .Mary J Eaton v The Pactfe 1l'ationaZ Bank,.
tried in the state court and constituting a part of said agreed
facts, contending that the same constituted no estoppel or barin defence of this action. The court admitted it, and plaintiTf
excepted, and his exception was allowed. The plaintiff contended and asked the court to rule that if the adjudication in
the state court, as shown by the said record from the state.
court, was competent evidence, it was not of itself conclusive
in this action, and did not operate as an estoppel or bar, and
was only to be considered with the other facts agreed in the
case.
"The plaintiff contended and asked the court to rule that
upon all the facts agreed as aforesaid he was entitled to recover the assessment sue&for upon the eighty shares of stock
VOL. CXLI-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

declared on.

The court declined to so rule, and beiing of the

opinion that he was entitled to so recover, except for the said
adjAudication in the state court, he held that said adjudication was of itself conclusive ?as a bar to the recovery, so far
as the forty shares of new stock in qilestion were concerned,
notwithstanding the issuing and pendency of a writ of error,
and ordered judgment for the amount only of the assessment
upon the forty shares of old stock not in dispute, that is to
say, in the sum of $5172. The plaintiff excepted to the
ruling in-so far as it precluded him from recovering *a like
sum in addition on account of the other forty shares."
As the sole ground and reason for giving judgment against
the receiver, in regard to the amount of the new shares of
stock, was the judgment of the Supreme Judicial Court of
Massachusetts, which (as stated) we have just reversed, the
inquiry arises what disposition may be made of the judgment
in this case, supposing that the evidence of the ]Mfassachusetts
judgment was properly admitted and allowed by the Circuit
,Court on the trial of the cause. At that time this judgment
was valid and subsisting. It.was not nominally between the
same parties, it is true. It was a judgment recovered by Mary
J. Eaton against the Pacific National Bank, whereas the
present action isan action between Butler, the receiver of the
said bank, and the said Mary J Eaton. We are inclined to
think, however, that the court below was right in determining
that the two actions were substantially between the same
-parties, inasmuch as a receiver of a national bank, in all
actions and suits growing out of the transactions of the bank,
represents it as fully as an executor represents his testator.
We think, therefore, that the evidence of'the judgment recovered was properly admitted as a bar to the receiver's title
to recover in reference to the new stock. And it cannot be
said, therefore, looking to the record in this case alone, that
there is error in the judgment now before us. But by our
own judgment just rendered in the other case, the whole basis
and foundation of the defence in the present case, namely, the
judgment of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, is
subverted and rendered null and void for the purpose of any

BUTLER v. EATON.
Opinion of the Court.

such defence. Whilst in force, an execution issued upon it,
and a sale of property under such execution would have been
effective. And when it was given in evidence in this case -itwas effective for the purpose of a defence, but its effectiveness
m that regard is now entirely annulled. Are we.then boundto affirm the judgment and send it back for ulterior proceedings in the court below, or may we, having, the judgment
before us, and under our control for affirmance, reversal -or
modification, and havmg judicial knowledge ot the.-ttal presz
ent insufficiency of the ground which supports. it, set it aside
as devoid of any legal basis, and give such judgment in the
case as would and ought to be rendered upon a writ- of error
corara, vobts, audita querela, or other proper proceedings for
revoking a judgment which has'become invalid from some
extraneous matter 2
In the case of Ballard. v £Teals, 130 U S. 50,.which w~s
an appeal in equity in which a somewhat similar. exigency
existed, we remanded the cause to- the Circuit Court with Instructions to allow the appellant to file such supplemental bill
as he might be advised, in the nature -of a -bill :of review, or
for the purpose of suspending or avoiding the decree upon
the new matter arising from the reversal of the decree on
which it was based. There were complications in that-case
which rendered such. a course advisable. A sale had been
-made under execution, and the purchasers might have acquired
rights which a simple reversal of the decree would have embarrassed, and the decree itself was not founded directly upon
the other decree which 'had been reversed, but was rendered
on a bill filed to set aside alleged fraudulent conveyances of
land which obstructed the execution of that decree. It
seemed to us that the necessary investigation to be made
would involve the exercise of original jurisdiction by this
court, to which it isnot competent. Hence we took the course
mentioned, by remanding the cause to the Circuit Court in
order that the requisite ulterior proceedings might be taken
there.
The present case is a more simple one. The judgment complained of is based directly upon the judgment of-the Supreme

OCTOBER TERAI, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

Judicial Court of Massachusetts, which we have just reversed.
It is apparent from an inspection of the record that the whole
loundation of that part of the judgment which is in favor of
the defendant is, to our judicial knowledge, without any
validity, force or effect, and ought never to have existed.
Why, then, should not we reverse the judgment which we
know of record* has become erroneous, and save the parties
the delay and expense of taking ulterior proceedings in the
court below to effect the same object?
Upon full consideration of the matter we have come to the
conclusion that we may dispose of the case here.
We,therefore, reverse the yudgment of the Circuit Court, and
order that the cause be remanded with directions to enter
yudgrment for the latnti n error against the defendant
in error for the whole amount sued for -n the action,
namely, ezght thousand dollars,with znterest and costs, and
take suck further proceedings as may be proper sn conformity with ths opmnion.

TUSIKAIOOSA NORTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v.
GUDE.
•FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE SOUTHERN
DIVISION OF THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ALARAMA.
No. 1606. Submitted January 15, 1891. -Decided February 2,1891.

In an action at law in a Circuit Court, judgment bemg rendered for the
plaintiff, there was no bill of exception, no writ of error nor an allowance
of appeal, but the defendant fied a supersedeas bond in wnch it was
alleged that the defendant had "prosecuted an appeal or writ of error to
the Supreme Court of the United. States, to reverse the judgment." The
plaintiff moved for the revocation of the supersedeas created by the
bond, which motion was denied. The motion in tis court for leave to
docket and dismiss the case was granted.

THIS was a motion for leave to docket and dismiss a cause.
The motion was as follows

