CRUTCHER v. KENTUCKY.
Statement of the Case.

In each of the three cases, therefore, the entry must
be
Decreereversed, and case remanded with directions to enter a
decreefor the amount of the taxfound due by te Circuit
Court, but apjly~ng the sum pazd into court, and computwng 2.terest on the balance, rn accordance wztA the ojne'on
of thms court, the costs n ths court. to be equally divzded
between the parties.
MR.

JusTicE FIELD

and MR. JUSTICE HARzAN dissented.

ORUTCHER v. KENTUCKY.
ERRORTO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF XENTUCKY.
No. 828.

ArguedMarch 19, 1890.-Decided Mtay 2 , 1891.

The act of the legislature of Kentucky of March 2, 1860, " to regulate
agencies of foreign express companies," which provides that the agent
of an express company not incorporated by the laws of that State shall
not carry on business there without first obtaining a license from the
State, and that, preliminary thereto, he shall satisfy the auditor of the
State that the company he represents is possessed of an actual capital of
at least $150,000, and that if he engages in quch busines without license
he shall be subject to fine, is a regulation of interstate commerce so far
as applied to a corporation of another State engaged in that business,
and is, to that extent, repugnant to the Constitution of the United States.

Tim case wat stated by the -court as follows.
This case arose at Frankfort, Franklin County, Kentucky,
upon an. indictment found against Crutcher, the plaintiff in
error, in the Franklin Circuit Court, for acting and doing business as agent for the United States .Express Company, alleged
to be an express company not incorporated by the laws of
Kentucky, but trading and doing business as a common carrier, by express, of goods, merchandise, money and other
things of value in and through the county and State aforesaid,,
without having any license s&-to do either for'himself or the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

company Crutcher, being arrested and brought before the
court, tendered a special plea setting forth the facts with, regard to his employment and the business of the company, and
amongst other things, that said company was a joint stock
company, incorporated and having its principal office in the
city of New York, in the State of :New York, which plea was
.refused. He then pleaded "not guilty," and the parties filed
an agreed statement of facts, and, by consent, the matters of
law and fact were submitted to the court, and the defendant
was found guilty and sentenced to pay a fine of one hundred
dollars and the costs of prosecution.
The agreed statement of facts was as follows
"It is agreed that defendant is agent of the United States
Express Co., a foreign corporation doing the business ordinarily done by express companies in this country, of carrying
goods and freight for hire not only from points in this State
to other.points in this State, but also of carrying same character of freight from points within this State to points without
State, in divers parts of the United States, and vwe versa.
"And defendant, agent at .Frankfort, Ky., never obtained
any license to do such business, nor did said express company
obtain any license from the State of Kentucky The proportion
-of business done by the said company within and without this
State for the month of November, 1888, is shown by a statement herewith filed, marked IX,' and the same proportion of
business within and without this State, approximately, is generally done by said company"
The detailed statement referred to, marked X, showed the
total amount of business done by the company at the Frankfort office in November, 1888, to have been $226.71, of which
$56.14, or not quite one-fourth of the whole, was business done
entirely within the State, and the remainder, $170.57, was
done partly witlm and partly without the State, that is, the
goods were brought into the State from places without the
State, or were carried from the State to places without
the State. Of course the latter, or largest portion, was comprised within the category of interstate commerce.
The defendant upon these facts moved for a new trial,

0RUTCHER v. KENTUCKY.
Statement of the Case.

which was refused, and also for an arrest of judgment, which
was denied, and a bill of exceptions was taken. The case was
then appealed to the Court of Appeals of Kentucky, and the
judgment was affirmed. The ground taken for reversing the
judgment was that the statute of Kentucky, under which
the indictment was found was repugnant to the power given
to Congress by the Constitution of the United States to regulate commerce among the several States.
The law in question was passed -March 2, 1860, and is as follows:
"An Act to Regulate Agencies of Foreign Express Companies
"SEcrrioN 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the
lCommonwealth of Kentucky, That it shall not be lawful, after
the first day of May, 1860, for any agent of any express company, not incorporated by the laws of this commonwealth, to
set up, establish or carry on the business of transportation in
this State, without first obtaining a license from the auditor
of public accounts to carry on such business.
"SEc. 2. Before the auditor shall issue such license to any
agent of any company incorporated by any State of the United
States, there shall be filed in his office a copy of the charter ofsuch company, and a statement, made under oath of its president or secretary, showing its assets and liabilities, and distinctly showing the amount of' its capital stock, and how the
same has been paid, and of what the assets of the company
consist, the amount of losses due and unpaid by said company,
if any, and all other claims against said company or other
indebtedness, due or not due; and such statement shall show
that the company is possessed of an actual capital of at least
$150,000, either in cash or in safe investments, exclusive of
stock notes. Upon the filing of the statement above provided,
and furnishing the auditor with satisfactory evidence of such
capital, it shall be his duty to issue license to such agent or
agents as the company may direct to carry on the business of
expressing or transportation in this State.
"SEc. 3. Before the auditor shall issue license to any agent
of any express or transportation company incorporated by any
'VOL. CXLI-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

foreign government, or any association or partnership acting
under the laws of any foreign government, there shall be filed
in his office a-statement setting forth the act of incorporation
or charter, or the articles of association, or by-laws under
which they act, and setting forth the matters required by the
preceding section of this act to be specified, and satisfactory
evidence shall be furpished to the auditor that such company
has on deposit in the United States, or has invested in the
stock of some one or more of the United States, or in some
safe dividend-paying stocks in the United States, the sum of
$150,000, which statement shall be verified by the oath of the
president of such company, its general agent in the United
States, or the agent applying for such license; and upon the
due filing of such statement, and furnishing the auditor with
satisfactory evidence of such deposit or investment, it shall be
his duty to issue such license to the agent or agents applying
for the same.
"SEc. 4. The statements required by the foregoing sections
shall be renewed in each year thereafter, either in the months
of January or July; and the auditor, on being satisfied that
the capital or deposit, consisting of cash securities or invest2nents as provided in this act, remain seoure to the amount of
$150,000, shall renew such license."
"SEc. 8. Any person who shall set up, establish, carry on,
or transact any business for any transportation or express
company not incorporated by the law of this State, without
having obtained license as by this act required, or who shall
in any way violate the provisions of this act, shall be fined for
every such offence not less than one hundred nor more than
five hundred dollars, at the discretion of a jury, to be recovered
as like fines in other cases.
"SEc. 9. For any license issued by the auditor under this
act, and for each renewal thereof, he shall be allowed the sum
of $2.50, to be paid by theagent or company taking out such
license." Myer's Supplement, 228.
An amendatory act passed in 1866 raised the license fee to
five dollars, and imposed a fee of five dollars for filing copy
of charter, and ten dollars for filing an original or annual

CRUTCHER v. KENTUCKY.
Statement of the Case.

statement. The Supreme Court of Kentucky in disposing of
the case gave the following opinion (Crutcher v Commonwealth, 40 Amer. & Eng. Railroad Cases, 29, 12 So. West. Reporter, 141)
"It seems to us that the case of Woodward against The
Commonwealth,1 in which the statute appears in full, (decided
'by this court at its last term,) determines the question now
presented. Counsef for the appellant now claims tlat the
statute of this State isinvalid, as its effect is to regulate commerce among the several States. The agenft of the express
company was fined for not paying to the auditor a fee of five
dollars, or rather, for failing to take out a license required by
the act regulating the agencies of foreign express companies,
passed in March, 1860, and amended by the act of 1866. That
the company of which the appellant is agent is a corporation
created by the laws of New York, doing business in this Stat
as a carrier of goods, wares and merchandise is conceded, anc
that it transports goods, etc., out of the State into other
States, and all other species of property usually incident to
such transportation -is admitted. It appears that at least fifty
per cent of the business done by this agent consists in the
carrying of goods from the place of his agency, Frankfort, to
other States. That the carrying and transportation of goods
from one State to another is a branch of interstate commerce
is not controverted, but it is claimed that there is nothing in
the legislation imposing on those who desire to act as the
agents of this foreign corporation the burden of paying to the
auditor the fee of five dollars for recording his agency, or
rather, for issuing him his license to act as such.
"The statute was enacted for the benefit of the citizens. of
the State, under which the auditor is required to have satisfactory evidence of the ability and solvency of the corporation
to do that which it has undertaken to do by virtue of its act
of incorporation. Those who intrust to its custody the transportation of their property are entitled to some security that
its undertaking will be performed, and we find no law of
1 35 Amer. and Eng. Railroad Cases, 498, 9 Ky. Law Reporter, 670.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

Congress, or any constitutional provision, that would deny to
the State the right to impose such a burden upon those who
undertake the discharge of such responsible duties. There is
no discrimination made between corporations doing a like
business, and the State, although the appellant's company is
a foreign corporation, has the right to license the business and
calling of this agent as it would that of the lawyer or merchant whose business is confined to the State alone."
The court then referred to the cases of Smita v Alabama,
124 U. S. 465, and to Nfashville, Chattanooga c. Railway v
Alabama, 128 IT. S. 96, and concluded as follows "We cannot perceive how any burden has been placed by the State
upon interstate commerce by the provisions of the enactment
in question, and must therefore affirm the judgment."
XP W TV .Ofacfarlandfor plaintiff in error.
ilr James P Helm (with whom was -M9,Helm Bruce on
the brief) for defendant in error.
We suppose that the only serious question involved in the
case is, as to whether or not the State has the power to require
that all express companies doing business in the State shall
have an actual capital of at least $150,000. If it has the
power to require this, then it unquestionably has the power to
require that some officer of the State shall be satisfied of this
fact by the filing with him of a sworn statement showing the
fact. And we suppose there cannot be any question but that
the State has the right to require that the charter of the corporation doing business in the State, and which charter fixes
the rights and powers, and often the liabilities of the corporation, shall be made known to the people of this State who are
to deal with the corporation, by filing a copy of said charter
ina public office of the State.
And we understand it to be the settled law that where a
State has the right to make such requirementsas these, which
call for the performance of duties on the part of state officers,
.t
has also the right to require that reasonable fees shall be
paid by the party seeking theZ:!
performance of these offices, to

CRUTCHER v. KENTUCKY.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

cover the cost and to make reasonable compensation to the
officers for the services performed. Smith v Alabama, 124
U. S. 465.
We do not deny that the business done by an express company is commerce, nor that it is well settled that a State cannot charge a person engaged in interstate commercei for the
privilege of coming into the State to do business. And we
are familiar with the line of decisions. holding that a State
cannot tax Vhe occupation of carrying on interstate commerce.
But the great majority of these cases have been cases involving
the validity of tax laws, which are manifestly not laws enacted
by virtue of the State's police power.
As these cases involving the validity of tax laws could not,
in the very nature of the case, involve a consideration of the
nature and extent of the State's police power, except by way
of illustration, therefore, inasmuch as the present case is not a
tax case, but is a case in which the statute of the State is
claimed to be valid under the police power of the State, we
derive more assistance and instruction from the decisions of
this court, wherein the court has been called upon to decide
expressly whether or not a given act by a State was a valid
exercise of the police power of the State, than we do from
the class of cases above referred to, where the question of
police power was not and could not have been directly involved.
For these reasons it seems to us that the cases of Brown v
.MaryZand, 12 Wheat. 419, The Passenger Cases, 7 SHow 283,
State FWrezght Tax Case, 15 Wall. 232, Railroad Gross Rece?pts
Case, 15 Wall. 284, FloridaTelegraph Case, 96 U. S. 1, Texas
9Telegraph Case, 105 U. S. 460, Mkassachusetts Telegraph Case,
125 U. S. 530, _.eloup v Ifobile, -127 U S. 640, MToran v .New
Orleans, 112 U. S. 69, Gloucester Ferry Co. v Pennsylvania,
114 U S, 196, and Picardv Pullman Car Co.. 117 U. S. 34,
are not nearly so instructive in the congideraton of the case at
bar as are such cases as New York v Miln, 8 Pet. 119, The
-License Cases, 5 How 504, Smith v Alabama, 124 U S. 465,
Patterson v Kentucky, 91 U S. 501, Railroad Company v.
Alabama, 128 U S. 96, and others of that character.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1890.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

However courts and text-writers may differ as to the definition of the police power of a State, all agree that such a power
does exist in the States, that it was never surrendered to Congress, that it is absolutely essential to the existence of the
States, and that it embraces the power to make all needful
regulations for the protection of its citizens. It is well that
no constitution. or fixed law of any kind, ever attempted to
define this power. It must always be sufficient to meet the
exigencies of the times, whatever they may be, or the government must perish, and, as no human mind can comprehend
the future, none can tell what may or may not become necessary to meet its requirements. The habits and customs of
people, their pursuits, their manner of conducting business,
their means of communication, differ so widely at different
times that it is absolutely necessary that governments should
have a power to meet the exigencies of the tunes. And in a
government like ours, unique in history, where in every State
there are two coexistent governments, where every citizen is
at one and the same time the citizen of two governments, the
subject of two sovereignties; and when we recollect that there
is no isolated fact, no solitary event, but that every occurrence
is connected directly or collaterally with countless others, we
say, that -*hen these considerations are remembered, one cannot fail to recognize the danger of testing by extreme ease
these independent powers of distinct sovereignties governing
the same people at the same time, the danger in insisting that
the exercise in a certain manner of a given power by one of
these governments is necessarily invalid, lbecause it may be
seen that by the application of thesame power in an extreme
case of kindred nature some object might be effected wbich is
more legitimately the subject of a different power in the other
government.
Whatever may be the correct statement of the view now
taken by this court on the question of the execlustveness of the
power of Congress over interstate commerce, it is, )f course,
remembered that at one time the majority of tnis c )urt held
that the grant of power to Congress to regulate interstate
-,ommerce did not exclude the power of the States in that

CRUTCHER v. KENTUCKY.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

respect so long as Congress remained silent, but that, when-

ever Congress spoke, its dictum was supreme. This was the
principle on which the majority of the court decided the case
of Pser'ce v -New 17ampshi'e, one of the "Licene Case8," 5
Howard, 564, where this view was most ably presented -by
Chief Justice Taney, (pp. 578, etc.,) and where he and Justice
Catron (p. 603) seem to us to show very clearly that such was
the view of Chief Justice Marshall, as shown by his opinions
in Gibkons v Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, and Willson v Blaorkrd
Crneek 'arsh Company, 2 Pet. 241.
The' court seems now, however, to have settled that Congress
alone ias the power to "regulate commerce" in matters susceptible otl general and uniform regulation, but that in matters wlich are affected by local considerations the power to
"regulate commerce' is possessed by both the Federal and
State legislatures, subject, however, to the modification that
whenever Congress speaks on the subject that is the supreme
law PhiladephtaSteamsh2bp Co. v Pennsylvania, 122 U S,
326, Robbzns v. Shelby Taxing .Dzstrzot, 120 U. S. 489, 492,
493. In other words, in matters best susceptible of local regulation the States have concurrent power with Congress to pass
laws that are directly and unquestionably regulations of interstate commerce, and are intended as such, but, as to matters
susceptible of'uniform regulation, the power to pass laws, -the
object of which is to regulate interstate commerce, is in Congress alone.
But even upon a matter which might be said to be susceptible of uniform regulation, under a law the object of which
was to "regulate commerce," the State may make a police
regulation which may affect it, but which, if it appears to be a.
bonaf e police regulation and not a mere covered attempt to
regulate commerce, will still be valid unless a conflict arises
between this regulation and some regulation by Congress
under its commercial power. ANew Fork v ,AMiln, 11 Pet.
102, Srnith v Alabama, 124 U. S. 465, Railroad Co. v
Alabama, 128 U. S. 96.
No question can be made of the good faith of the State in
requiring evidence that the foreign corporation doing business

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

within it is solvent. Such a law is not in conflict with any law
of Congress. Does Congress by its silence mean to say that it
will not make any regulation on this subject, and that no State
shall have the right to do so, but that any corporation may
go into a foreign State where it is not known, either as to the
extent of its legal or financial powers or as to the agents that
are accredited by it, and may then refuse to make known any
of these facts, and insist on carrying on this important business and making important contracts with, and securing valuable property of the citizens of this State, though it (the corporation) may be utterly irresponsible 2 Surely this cannot
have been the intention of Congress. On the contrary, it
must be presumed that Congress understood the propriety and
necessity of such regulations, and left them to the States to
make, according to the character of the corporations -concerned
and the necessities of the case.

MR. JusTicE BRADLEY, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
We regret that we are unable to concur with the learned
Court )f Appeals of Kentucky in its views on this subject.
The law of Kentucky, which is brought in question by the
case, require. from the agent of every express company not
-incorporated by "e laws of R6. icky a license from the
auditor of 1.lhlic -ccounts, before he can carry on ary business for said company in the btate. This. of course, emoraces
interstate business as well as business confined wholly within
the State. It is a prohibition against the carrying on of such
business without a compliance with the state law And not
only a license required to be obtained by the agent, but a
statement must be made and filed, in the auditor's office showing that "he company s possessed of an actual capital of
$150,000, either in cash r in safe investments, exclusive of
stock notes. If the subjecA was one which appertaitied to the
jurisdiction of the state legislature, it may be that the requirements and conditions of doing business within the Statw would
be promotive of the public good. It is clear, however, that it

CRUTCHER v. KENTUCKY.
Opinion of the Court.

-would be a regulation of interstate commerce in its application to corporations or associations engaged in that business,
.and that is a subject which belongs to the jurisdiction of the
national and not the state legislature. Congress would
undoubtedly have the right to exact from associations of that
kind any guarantees it might deem necessary for the public
security, and for the faithful transaction of business, and
as it is within the province of Congress, it is to be presumed
that Congress has done, or will do, all that is necessary and
proper in that regard. Besides, it is not to be presumed that
the State of its origin has neglected to require from any
such corporation proper guarantees as to capital and other
If a partnership
securities necessary for the public safety
firm of individuals should undertake to carry on the business
of interstate commerce between Kentucky and other States,
it would not be within the province of the state legislature to
exact conditions on which they should carry on their business,
nor to require them to take out a license tnerefor. To carry
on interstate commerce is not a franchise or a privilege granted
by the State; it is a right which every citizen of the United
States is entitled to exercise under the Constitution and laws
-of the United States; and the accession of mere corporate
facilities, as a-matter of convenience in carrying on their business, cannot have the effect of depriving them of such right,
-unless Congress should see fit to interpose some contrary regulatioi on the subject.
It has frequently been laid down by this court that the
power of Congress over interstate commerce is as absolute as
it is over foreign commerce. Would any one pretend that. a
state legislature could prohibit a foreign corporation, English or a French transportation company, for example, -from coming into its borders and landing goods and passengers at its wharves, and soliciting goods and passengers for
a return voyage, without first obtaining a license from some
state officer, and filing a sworn statement as to the amount
of its capital stock paid m 2 And why not? Evidently because the matter is not within the province of state legislation,
but within that of national legislation. Inman Steamship Co.

OCTOBER TERMK, 1890.
Opimon of the Court.

v. Tinker, 94 U. S. 238. The prerogative, the responsibility
and the duty of providing for the security of the citizens and
the people of the United States in relation to foreign corporate
bodies, or foreign individuals with whom they may have relations of foreign commerce, belong to the government of the
United States, and not to the governments of the several
States; and confidence in that regard may be reposed in the
national legislature without any anxiety or apprehension arising from the fact that the subject matter is not within the
province or jurisdiction of the state legislatures. And the
same thing is exactly true with regard to interstate commerce
as it is with regard to foreign commerce. N o difference is
perceivable between the two. Telegraph Co. v Texas, 105
U. S. 460, GloucesterFerry Co. v Peunsylvanta, 114 U. S. 196,
205, 211, Phila. Steamship Co. v Pennsylvanai, 122 MLS.
326, 342"; .Y Call v California,136 U. S. 104, 110, .lorfolk
& Western Railroad v Pennsylvania, 136 U. S. 114, 118.
As was said by Mr. Justice Lamar, in the case last cited, "It
is well settled by numerous decisions of this court, that a State
cannot under the guise of a license tax, exclude from its jurisdiction a foreign corporation engaged in interstate commerce,
or impose any burdens upon such commerce within its limits."
We have repeatedly decided that a state law is unconstitutional and void which requires a party to take out a license
for carrying on interstate commerce, no matter how specious
the pretext may be for imposing it. Pickard v. Pullman
Southern Car Co., 117 U. S. 34, Robbins v. Shelby County
Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489, Leloup v -Mobile, 127 U S.
640, Asher v Texas, 128 U. S. 129, Stoutenburgk v Henniok,
129 U. S. 141, .EcCall v California,136, U. S. 104, -Porfolk
& Western Railroad Co. v. Pennsylvania, 136 U. S. 114.
As a summation of the whole matter it was aptly said by
the present Chief Justice in Lyng v Michigaw, 135 U. S. 161,
166 "We have repeatedly held that no State has the right to
lay a tax on interstate commerce in any form, whether by way
of duties liid on the transportation of the subjects of that
commerce, or on the receipts derived from that transportation,
or on the occupation or business of carrying it on, for the rea-

CRUTCOER v. KENTUCKY.
Opinion of the Co"rt.

son that taxation is a burden on that commerce, and amounts
to a regulation of it, which belongs solely to Congress."
We do not think that the difficulty is at all obviated by the
fact that the express company, as incidental to its main business, (which is to carry goods between different States,) does
also some local business by carrying goods from one point to
This is, probably,
another within the State of Kentucky
quite as much for the accommodation of the people of that
State as for the advantage of the company But whether so
or not, it does not obviate the objection that the regulations
as to license and capital stoik are imposed as conditions on
the company's carrying on the business of interstate commerce, which was manifestly the principal object of its organization. These regulations are clearly a burden and a-restriction upon that commerce. Whether intended as such or not
they operate as such. But taxes or license fees in good faith
imposed exclusively on express business carried on wholly
within the State would be open to no such objection.
The case is entirely different from that of foreign corporations seeking to do a business which does not belong to the
regulating power of Congress. The insurance business, for
example, cannot be carried on in a State by a foreign corporation without complying with all the conditions imposed by
the legislation of that State. So with regard to manufacturing corporations, and all other corporations whose business is
of a local and domestic nature, which would include express
companies whose business is confined to points and places
wholly within the State. The cases to this effect are numerous. Bane of Augusta v Earle, 13 Pet. 519; Paul v Virgznsa, 8 Wall. 168, Lsverpool Insurance Company v. _Mas.vachusetts, 10 Wall. 566, Cooper -Manuactunng Company v
Ferguson, 113 U. S. 727, Phila. Fire Assoczaion v NSew
York, 119 U. S. 110.
But the main argument in support of the decision of the
Court of Appeals is that the act in question is essentially a
regulation made in the fair exercise of the police power of the
State. But it does not follow that everything which the
legislature of a State may deem essential for the good order

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

of society and the well being of its citizens can be set up
against the exclusive power of Congress to regulate the operations of foreign and interstate commerce. We have lately
expressly decided in the case of Leasy v HIardin, 135 U. S.
IOU, that a state law prohibiting the sale of intoxicating
liquors is void when it comes in conflict with the express or
implied regulation of interstate commerce by Congress, declaring that the traffic in such liquors as articles of merchandise
between the States shall be free. There are, undoubtedly,
many things which in their nature are so deleterious or injurious to the lives and health of the people as to lose all benefit of protection as articles or things of commerce, or to be
able to claim it only in a modified way Such things are
properly subject to the police power of the State. Chief Justice Marshall in Brownu v Ifaryland, 12 Wheat. 419, 443,
instances gunpowder as clearly subject to the exercise of the
police power in regard to its removal and the place of its
storage, and he adds "The removal or destruction of infectious or unsound articles is, undoubtedly, an exercise of that
power, and forms an express exception to the prohibition we
are considering. Indeed, the laws of the United States expressly sanction the health laws of a State." Chief Justice
Taney in the License Cases, 5 How 504, 576, took the same
distinction when he said. "It has, indeed, been suggestedi
that, if a State deems the traffic in ardent spirits to be injurious to its citizens, and calculated to introduce immorality,
vice and pauperism into the State, it may constitutionally
refuse to permit its importation, notwithstanding the laws of
Congress, and that a State may do this upon the same principles that it~may resist and prevent the introduction of disease, pestilence and pauperism from abroad. But it must be
remembered that disease, pestilence and pauperism are not
subjects of commerce, although sometimes among its attendant
evils. They are not things to be regulated and trafficked in,
but to be prevented, as far as human foresight or human
means can guard against them. But spirits and distilled
liquors are universally admitted to be subjects of ownership
and property, and are therefore subjects of exchange, barter

CRUTCHER v. KENTUCKY.
Opinion of the Court.

and traffic, like any other commodity in which a right of property exists."
But whilst it is only such things as are clearly injurious to
the lives and health of the people that are placed beyond the
protection of the commercial power of Congress, yet when
that power, or some other exclusive power of the Federal
government, is not in question, the police power of the State
extends to almost everything within its borders, to the suppression of nuisances, to the prohibition of manufactures
deemed injurious to the public health, to the prohibition of
intoxicating drinks, their manufacture or sale, to the prohibition of lotteries, gambling, horse-racing or anything else that
the legislature may deem opposed to the public welfare.
Barterneyer v Iowa, 18 Wall. 129, Beer Company v Massachusetts, 97 U. S. 25, _Fertilizzng Co. v ilyde Park,97 U. S.
659, Stone v .Misszmsppz, 101 U. S. 814, Foster v Kansas,
112 U. S. 201, .Augler v. Zansas, 123 U. S. 623, Powell v
Pennsylvanta,127 U. S. 678, _idd v. Pearson,128 U. S. 1,
.nbimosh v Ball, 129 U. S. 217.
It is also within the undoubted province of the state legis'lature to make regulations with regard to the speed of railroad
trains in the neighborhood of cities and towns, with regard to
the precautions to be taken in the approach of such trains to
bridges, tunnels, deep cuts and sharp curves, and, generally,
with regard to all operations in which the lives and health of
peopl6 may be endangered, even though such regulations affect
to some extent the operations of interstate commerce. Such
regulations are eminently local in their character, and, in the
absence of congressional regulations over the same subject, are
free from all constitutional objections, and unquestionably
valid.
In view of the foregoing considerations, and of the wellconsidered distinctions that have been drawn between those
things that are and those things that are not, within the scope
of commercial regulation and protection, it is not difficult to
arrive at a satisfactory conclusion on the question now presented to us. The character of police regulation, claimed for
the requirements of the statute in question, is certainly not

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

such as to give them a controlling force over the regulations
of interstate commerce which may have been expressly or impliedly adopted by Congress, or such as to exempt them from
nullity when repugnant to the exclusive power given to Congress in relation to that commerce. This is abundantly shown
by the decisions to which we have already referred, which are,
clear to the effect that neither licenses nor indirect taxation of
any kind, nor any system of state regulation, can be imposed
upon interstate any more than upon foreign commerce, and
that all acts of legislation producing any such result are, to
that extent, unconstitutional and void. And as, in our judgment, the law of Kentucky now under consideration, as applied
to the case of the plaintiff in error, is open to this objection, it
necessarily follows that the judgment of the Court of Appeals
must be reversed.
Thejudgment z8 reversed accordingly,and the cause remanded
for f urtherproceedings not inconszstent with thzs opznwn.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE

and AlR. JUSTICE

GRAY

dissented.

MR. JUSTICE: BRowN, not having been a member of the court

when the case was argued, took no part in the decision.

VOIGHT v. WRIGHT.
ERROR TO

THE

CORPORATION COURT

OF

THE CITY OF. NORFOLE,

STATE OF VIRGINIA.

No. 92. Submitted November 26, 1890. -Decided

May 25. 1891.

The act of Virgima of March, 1867, (now repealed,) as set forth in c. 86,
Code of Virginia, edi. 1873, providing that all flour brought into the State
and offered for sale therein shall be revewed, and have the Virginia inspection marked thereon, and imposing a penalty for offering such flour
for sale without such review or inspection, is repugnant to the commerce
clause of the Constitution, because it is a discriminating law, requiring
the inspection of flour brought from other States when. it is not required
for flour manufactured in Virginia.

