OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

the act of March 3, 1887, required an immediate adjustment
by the Secretary of the Interior of all unadjusted land grants
made in aid of the construction of railroads. 24: Stat. 556, c.
376. We are informed by the brief of one of the defendants'
counsel, that there has been a final adjustment of the grants
made for the benefit of the Missouri-Kansas Company, and that
such adjustment shows that there is a very large deficiency
in lands due to that company Whether the lands already
patented to the railroad company are in excess'of what it was
entitled to receive, and what effect such a fact, if established,
will have upon the present suit, are questions which can be
better determined after the issues between the parties are
fully made up and the evidence all taken.
The decree ts reversed and the cause remanded with directsons to overrule the several demurrers to the bill, and to
regunre answers from the defendants, and for other proceedings not znconststent with thm opm-ton.

FOWLER v. EQUITABLE TRUST COMPANY
EQUITABLE TRUST COMPA1Y v. FOWLER.
APPEALS FROM3

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Noa. 32, 33.

Argued April 16, 17, 1891.-Decided October 26, 1891.

Upon the rendition of a decree, a petition and motion for a rehearing was
filed. At the succeeding term of the court an order was entered, grantmg a rehearing, which order was entered as of a previous term. The
record contained no order showing the continuance of the motion and
the petition for rehearing to the succeeding term. Held, that the presumption must be indulged, in support of the action of a court having
jurisdiction of the parties and the subject matter-nothing to the contrary affirmatively appearing -that the facts existed which justified its
action; and, therefore, that the court granted the application for a
rehearing at the previous term.
The question of usury in a loan made in 1873 to a citizen of fllinois by a
Connecticut corporation - the loan being evidenced by notes of the

FOWLER v. EQUITABLE

'RUST CO.

Statement of the Case.
borrower payable in New York, and secured by mortgage upon real
estate in Illinois, is to be determined by the laws of the latter State pursuant to its statute providing, in substance,- that where any contract or
loan shall be made in Illinois, or between citizens of that State and any
other State or country, at a rate legal under the laws of Illinois, it shall
be lawful to make the principal and interest payable in any other State
or Territory, or in London, in which cases the contract or loan shall be
governed by the laws of Illinois, uiafected by the laws of the State or
country where the same shall be made payable.
It is settled doctrine in Illinois that the mere taking of interest in advance
does not bring a loan within the prohibition against usury but whether
that doctrine would apply where the loan was for such period that the
exaction by the lender of interest in advance would, at the outset, absorb
so much of the principal as to leave the borrower very little of the
amount agreed to be loaned to him is not decided.
A contract for the loan or forbearance of money at the highest legal rate is
not usury in Illinois, merely because the broker who obtains a loan- but
who has no legal or established connection with the lender as ageit and
no arrangement with the lender in respect to compensation for his services -exacts and receives, in addition to the interest to be paid to the
lender, commissions from the borrower.
If a corporation of another State, through one of its local agents in Illinois,
negotiates a loan of money to a citizen of the latter State, at the highest
rate allowed by its laws, and the agent charges the borrower, in addition,
commissions for his services pursuant to a general arrangement made
with the company, at the time he became agent, that lie was to get pay
for his services as agent in commissions from borrowers, such loan is
usurious under the law of Illinois, although the company was not
informed, in the particular case, that the agent exacted and received
commissions from the borrower.
In Illinois, when the contract of loan is usurious, the lender, suing the borrower for the balance due, can only recover the principal sum, diminished
by applying as credits thereon all payments made on account of interest. In such cases, whatever the borrower pays on account of the loan
goes as a credit on time principal sum.
A trust deed, covering real estate, provided that in the case oi a sale by
the trustee, at public auction, upon advertisement, all costs, charges and
expenses of such advertisement, sale and conveyance, including commissions, such as were at the time of the sale allowed by the laws of Illinois
to sheriffs on sale of real estate on execution, should be paid out of the
proceeds. Held, (1) that this provision did not impose-upon the borrower the burden of paying to a lender a solicitor's fee where a suit was
brought for foreclosure. (2) that the commissions referred to in the
deed are allowed only where the property is sold, upon advertisement, by
the trustee, without suit.

THE court stated the case as follows
VOL. Cx\LIr-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

By deed, bearing date November 1, 1873, and acknowledged
and filed for record February 23, 1874, Edwin S. Fowler - his.
wife, Sophie Fowler, uniting with him - conveyed to Jonathan
Edwards, in fee simple, certain real estate in the city of Springfield, Illinois, in trust to secure the payment of the principal
and interest of.nine bonds, of one thousand dollars each, executed by FowI6r to the Equitable Trust Company, a Connecticut corporation, and payable, principal and interest, at its
office in the city of New York; the principal, five years after
date, and the interest, semi-annually, at the rate of seven per
cent per annum.
The deed recited that the bonds were given to secure a loan
of nine thousand dollars, payable five years after date thereof,
with interest at ten per cent per annum, of which seven per
cent per annum was secured by the deed of trust, and was to
be paid as in the bond provided, and the balance, to wit, three
per cent per annum, was "discounted," and paid at the time
of the execution of the deed. In case of default in paying the
principal or interest as each matured, or of failure to keep and
perform the covenants of the deed or any of them, the trustee
was authorized to sell, at public auction, after advertisement,
to the highest bidder for cash, and with or without previous
entry upon the premises, the right and equity of redemption
of the grantors, and out of the proceeds of sale to pay the
costs, charges and expenses of the advertisement, sale and
conveyance, "including commissions such as'are, at the time
of such sale, allowed by the laws of Illinois to sheriffs on sale
of real estate on execution," all sums paid by the trustee for
insurance and taxes, with ten per cent interest thereon from
time of payment, the principal and the accrued interest remaining unpaid at the time of sale, and to Fowler any balance
remaining.
The present suit was brought, October 26, 1882, to foreclose
the defendants' right and equity of redemption, and for a sale
of the mortgaged property to raise such sum as might be due.
the mortgagee.
Fowler, by his answer, put the plaintiff upon proof of the
averments of the bill, and made defence upon several grounds.

FOWLER v. EQUITABLE TRUST CO.
Statement of the Case.

But the original answer is important only as alleging that the
loan was usurious, and was consummated in the manner it was
with intent to evade the statutes of Illinois relating to interest.
The plaintiff filed a general replication, and subsequently,
the defendants, by leave of the court, amended their answer,
stating more fully the grounds upon which they based the
defence of usury They also alleged that the contract of loan
was and is a lNew York contract, and that by the statutes of
that State it was usurious, in that the interest contracted to be
received by the plaintiff, having regard to the amount actually
advanced by it, was in excess of seven per cent per annum, the
rate established by the laws of New York. Of those statutes
they claimed the benefit.
[The facts proved, and which were relied upon to establish
that the contract was usurious under the laws of New York,
are stated in the opinion of the court, _post pages 397-399.]
By a decree passed October 20, 1884, the court below found
the amount due from Fowler to be only $2980.67 on the
bonds, and $270.94, insurance and taxes paid by the plaintiff
with interest thereon, in all, $3251.61. At the foot of that
.decree were these orders
"And thereupon the complainant entered its motion for a
rehearing before a full bench.
"Whereupon, on said 20th day of October, of the year last
aforesaid [1884] came the complainant, by its solicitor, and
filed in the clerk's office of said court its motion and petition
for a rehearing in this cause, which motion and petition are
as follows," etc.
Following the above, in the transcript, are the written motion and petition for rehearing.
On the 8th of June, 1885, the succeeding term, the cause was
set for hearing on the 29th of that month before what is called
a full bench. Then appears an order, under date of June 30,
1885, entered as of October 31, 1884, granting the rehearing
asked. To that order the defendants excepted.
By the final decree of January 11, 1887, the sum of $8150.79
was adjudged to be due the Trust Company, of which $7809.69
was found to be the sum actually advanced by it to Fowler,

OCTOBER TER.-M, 1891.
Argument for the Equitable Trust Co.

and $341.10 was the amount of insurance and taxes on the
property paid by the company, with interest on each sum,
from the date of the decree, at the rate of six per cent per annum. The mortgaged property was ordered to be sold to raise
the above aggregate amount found to be due, with such interest
and the costs of the suit. From that decree each party has
prosecuted an appeal, the defendants insisting that no decree,
for any amount, should have gone against them, while the
plaintiff insists that the decree should have been for a larger
amount.
-Mr William L. Gross,' for the Equitable Trust Company,
arglued as to the defence of usury
I. Usury is a local question. It is the lex loct contractu&
which governs in respect of usury De Wolf v Johnson, 10
Wheat. 367, Andrews v Pond, 13 Pet. 64, Cromwell v
County of Sac, 96 U. S. 51, 62, Call v Palmer, 116 U S. 98,
Latrobe v Hulbert, 6 Fed. Rep. 209.
II. Allegata et Probata. The rule is general, and without
exception, that an averment or plea of usury, must be proved
as laid. Ewing v roward,7 Wall. 499, Drake v Watson,
4 Day, 37, Wilrnot v .Monson, 4 Day, 114, Brown v .Mortgage Co., 110 Illinois, 235, Kihlholz v Wolf, 103 Illinois, 362,
Phillips v Roberts, 90 Illinois, 492, Telford v Garrels, 132
Illinois, 550, Beach v Fulton Bank, 3 Wend. 573, Srith v
Brush, 8 Johns. 84. And if the defendant fails in proving the
usurious contract in the way and manner in which he has
charged it in his plea or answer, the defence must fail. Vroom.
v Ditmas, 4 Paige, 526.
III. Intent is an essential ingredient. If the transaction,
says the court, in Bank v Owens, 2 Pet. 527, was in violation
of the restriction in the bank's charter limiting its power to
"take" more than 6 per cent interest, "it could only have
been upon the ground of an intention" to evade the statute.
So also "In construing the usury laws, the uniform construcSThins case was argued with Fowler v. Equitable Trust Co., post 408, and
Fowler v. Equitable Trust Co., post 411.

FOWLER v. EQUITABLE TRUST CO.
Argument for the Equitable Trust Co.

tion in England has been, (and it is equally applicable here,)
that to constitute usury within the prohibitions of the law,
there must be an intention knowingly to contract for or to
take usurious interest, for if neither party intend it, but act
bona fide and innocently, the law will not infer a corrupt
agreement. Where, indeed, the contract upon its face imports
usury, as by an express reservation of more than legal interest,
there is no room for presumption, for the intent isapparent,
res ipsa loquitur But where the contract, on its face, is for
legal interest only, there-it must be proved that there was
some corrupt agreement or device, or shift, to cover usury,
and that it was in the full contemplation of the parties.
The quo antmo is, therefore, an essential ingredient in all cases of this sort." Urnted States Bank v. Waggener, 9 Pet. 378, 399. See also fiotel Co. v Wade, 97 U. S.
13, 23, Lloyd v. Scott, 4 Pet. 205, Palmer v Call, 7 Fed.
Rep. 737.
IV Commissions by agent or broker When an agent,
authorized to loan money at lawful interest, exacts for his
own benefit more than the lawtul rate, without the knowledge
or authority of his principal, the loan is not thereby rendered
usurious. The loaner of the money must not only be a party
to the usurious contract, but he must take the usury Call v
Palmer, 116 U. S.98. And when the evidence fails to show
that the commission was paid to the loaner, the defence of
usury, based thereon, will not be sustained. &rantv. Pcen-zx
L-fe Ins. Co., 121 U S.105, 117.
Agent's commissions, as an element in usury defences, has
often been before the Supreme Court of Illinois
Ballinger v Bourland, 87 Illinois, 513. There the agent
procured a loan and charged a commission and expenses to
borrower, but without the lender's knowledge and not for the
lender's benefit, and the court said it was not usury See also
Colehour v State Say. Ins., 90 Illinois, 152, Boylston v Ban,
90 Illinois, 283, Phillips v Roberts, 90 Illinois, 492.
Payne v .Newcomb, 100 Illinois, 611. There the loan agent
was required to learn the situation of the property offered as
security, to examine and ascertain the title, and became per-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for the Equitable Trust Co.

sonally liable to the lender for any loss sustained through defective title or overvaluation of the security, and the court
found he was the agent of the lender and his taking a commission from the borrower in excess of the legal rate rendered
the contract usurious. But in ioyt v Pawtucket Instutionr
for Sa wngs, 110 Illinois, on page 394, it is expressly said that
Payne v. Newcomb was not intended to decide that a broker
loaning the money of others, could not take a commission
from the borrower without rendering the loan usurious. See
also Kildkolz v. Wo A 103 Illinois, 362, .feers v Stevens, 106
Illinois, 549, leoGovern. v Unton Mutual Instrance Co., 109
Illinois, 151.
Hoyt v Pawtucket Instittonfor Savngs, 110 Illinois, 390Taylor was a loan broker in Chicago. Hoyt made application
to the Institution for Savings for a loan of $5000 at 10 per
cent, which being forwarded by Taylor to the Institution, at
its residence in Rhode Island, was there accepted, and the loan
was paid by the Institution, (less $250, one half-year's interest,
deducted in advance,) by a draft to the order of Hoyt himself.
Taylor charged Hoyt $250 for commissions for securing the
loan, which was paid. This commission, and the agreement
therefor, was without the knowledge of the. lender, and the
Institution got no part thereof, and received no more than 10
per cent on the money loaned, as evidenced by the note given
therefor. The court held. 1. Taking interest in advance was
not usurious, and 2. That the commissions charged by Taylor
did not make the transaction usurious, saying" "The Institution for Savings has never received, or agreed to receive, more
than the legal rate of interest upon this loan, and whatever in
addition thereto Hoyt has paid Taylor, has been in compensation for services of Taylor in procuring the loan for Hoyt,
which was something entirely between themselves, independent of the Institution for Savings, with which the latter had
no connection. 'We fail to discover anything of usury in the
transaction."
Brown v .Mortgage 6 o., 110 Illinois, 235. Hale & Co., of
Chicago, procured a loan from capitalists in Scotland, for
Brown, of $4500 for 5 years at 9 per cent, and the latter gave

FOWLER v. EQUITABLE TRUST CO.
Argument for Fowler.

his note therefor. Brown paid Hale & Co., or the latter deducted from the sum loaned, a commission of $225, and this,
it was charged, rendered the loan usurious. The evidence,
the court said, did not show Hale & Co. to have been the
agents of the lender, adding- "If they were not the company's agents, but were the agents of Brown, in that transaction, although he might have paid them an amount which,
added to the current interest upon the note, largely exceeded
legal interest, it would not prove usury in the loan. It cannot
concern the lender what the borrower pays to his own agents.
Kihlholz v Wolf, 103 Illinois, 362, Phillipsv Roberts, 90 Illi-.
nois, 492. The burden of proving a transaction usurious rests
upon the party alleging it. Boy7ston v. Bazn, 90 Illinois, 283,
.ihlholz v 1lf5 , supra. In the next place, at the time this
loan was made, it was lawful to exact 10 per cent per annum
interest on money loaned. The note given bears interest
only at the rate of 9 per cent per annum, and runs for 5
years. It has been held that it is not usurious to exact the
payment of interest in advance. .Mitchell v Xyman, 77 Illinois, 525, Goodrsch v Reynolds, 31 Illinois, 490; S. (283 Am.
Dec. 210., .McGill v Ware, 4 Scammon, 21. One por cent
on $4500 (the amount borrowed) for 5 years makes just $225,
and so in any view, interest has not been exacted beyond the
rate of 10 per cent per annum- the then legal rate. MAfcGovern v Unton .Mutual 1ife Ins. Co., 109 Illinois, 151.,,
See also Ammondson v Ryan, 111 Illinois, 506, Cox v .Mass.
.Mutual Life Ins. "Co., 113 Illinois, 382, Haldeman v. .Mass.
.MutualLzfe Ins. Co., 120 Illinois, 390, Hass. Mutual ZLfe
Ins. Co. v Boggs, 121 Illinois, 119, Telford v Garrels, 132
Illinois, 550, Sanford v Eane, 133 Illinois, 199, Ryan v
Sanford, 133 Illinois, 291.
37ir Robert G Ingersoll and .Ar William Rithte for
Fowler argued as to the law which was to govern the construction of the contract
These are all New York contracts, to be governed* by the
New York statutes, and the securities are, consequently, void.

OCTOBER TERM, 18,
Argument lor Fowler.

In 1873, 1874, and 1876 the statutes of New York provided
as follows:
The rate of interest upon the loan or forbearSECTION 1.
ance of any money, goods or things in action shall continue to
be seven dollars upon one hundred dollars for one year, and at
that rate for , greater or less sum, or for a longer or shorter
time.
No person or corporation shall, directly or mdiSEC. 2.
rectly, take or receive any money, goods or things in action,
or in any other way, any greater sum or greater value for the
loan or forbearance of any money, goods or things in action,
than is above prescribed.
SEC. 5. All bonds, bills, notes, assurances, conveyances and
whereupon
all other contracts or securities whatsoever,
or whereby there shall be reserved or taken, or, secured, or
agreed to be reserved or taken, any greater sum or greater
value, for the loan or forbearance of any money, goods or
other things in action, than is above prescribed, sh~ll be void.
Whenever any borrower of any money, goods or
SEC. S.
things in .action shall file a-bill in chancery for the discovery
of the money, goods or things in action taken or received in
violation of either of the foregoing provisions, it shall not be
necessary for him to pay or offer to pay any interest whatever
on the sum or thing loaned, nor shall any court of equity
require or compel the. payment or deposit of the principal sum
or any part thereof as a condition of granting relief to the
borrower in any case of a usurious loan forbidden by-this
chapter. Rev Stats. N. Y (Banks & Bros.) 6th ed. vol. 2, pp.
1164-6.
This is a suit to enforce a security If the debt or contract
for the performance of which that security was given be void,
it is plain the security fails likewise and cannot be enforced.
In Illinois, as elsewhere, the debt or contract is the principal
while the mortgage is the mere' incident. A contract void in
the place where it is made and to be performed, is void everywhere. If this is a New York contract and is void under the
laws of New York, it cannot be enforced in any court in Illinois, notwithstanding it may be in strict accord with the laws

FOWLER v. EQUITABLE TRUST CO.
Opinion of the Court.

of the latter state. As to the intent of the parties, with respect to which set of laws should govern the contract, we have
here no express or explicit declaration from either. We must
resort entirely to circumstantial evidence and inference to
ascertain what that intent was. Upon this point we note the
fact that the rate of interest adopted is not the Illinois rate
but the New York rate. Now, a security bearing only 7 per
cent could not have been meant for use in Illinois, where 10
per cent securities were at that time not only lawful, but common. The. funds loaned were at New York, being obtained
by draft on New York. The trustee in the trust deeds was a
resident of New York. There is no evidence whatever that
the money when obtained was to be used in Illinois.
Complainant's charter permitted it to "have such officer
and agencies in other Stkates as may be necessary for the transaction of its legitimate business," and accordingly it maintains
an agent in Illinois, but only the oflcers i2n New York have
power to make bmding contractsfor loans.
A security intended for negotiation and use, as such, at a
certain place should be governed *by the laws of that place.
These bonds received their final shape and character in New
York and were intended evidently for circulation there. These
facts have always been deemed most significant in determining
the locus of a contract. Dickqnson v Edwards, 77 N. Y 573,
Wayne County Savzngs Bank v Low, 81 N. Y 566, AMerchants' Bank v. Soutkwck, 67 How Pr. 324, Tilden v Blasr,
:21 Wall. 241, Gay v Raney, 89 Illinois, 221.
MR. JUsTICS HAtLAN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
1. The appellant Fowler contends that as no order was made
at the term when the first decree was entered, continuing until
the succeeding term the motion and petition for rehearing, the
decree of October 20, 1884, became final, and, consequently,
the order at the June term. 1885, entered as of October 31,
1884, which granted a rehearing, as well as the decree of Jannary 11, 1887, are to be treated as improvidently made, or as

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

nullities. We do not concur in this view

It is not disputed

that if, in October, 1884-, a rehearing was granted and the
clerk omitted to enter an order to that effect, it would have
been within the power of the court, at the succeeding term, by
an order nunc pro tune, to make the record speak the truth.
But as the order granting a rehearing was entered under date
of October 31, 1884, the presumption must be indulged, in support of the action of a court having jurisdiction of the parties
and the subject matter -nothing to the contrary affirmatively
appearing- that the facts existed which justified its action,
and, therefore, that the court granted the application for a
rehearing at the term at which the first decree was rendered.
Stockton v .Bshop, 4 How 155, 167, Townsend v. Jemwson,
7 How 706, 718. Besides, the exception taken by the defendants to the proceedings of June 30, 1885, was not, in terms,
that the order, then formally made, was directed to be entered
.as of October 31, 1884, but that it granted a rehearing. If
they intended to deny that the rehearing had been, in fact,
ordered at the previous term of the court, the point should
have been distinctly made upon the record.
2. The appellants Fowler and wife also contend that the
contract of loan was a New York contract, and void under the
laws of that State, and that neither the debt thus created, nor
the mortgage given to secure the bonds, can be recognized, nor
any recovery thereon had, in Illinois or elsewhere, for principal or interest. This-contention rests upon the statute of New
York, in force when the debt was created, providing that all
bonds, hills, notes, assurances, conveyances and all other contracts or securities whatsoever, whereupon or whereby there
shall be reserved or taken, or secured, or agreed to be reserved
or taken, any greater sum or greater value, for the loan or forbearance of any money, goods or things in action, tbn at the
rate of seven per cent per annum, shall be void. 1 Rev
Stats. N. Y part 2, c. 4, title 3, § 5, vol. 2, 6th ed. (Banks &
Brothers) 1164-6. The suggestion that by the contract of
loan a rate of interest was reserved in excess of that allowed
by the laws of New York, is based upon the ground that,
although the bonds in suit call only for seven per cent interest,

FOWLER v. EQUITABLE TRUST CO.
Opinion of the Court.

a much larger rate was, in fact, exacted and secured by the
company, taking into consideration the amount of the loan,
and the sum actually received under the contract.
By the thirteenth section of a statute of Illinois, in force on
and after February 12, 1857, entitled "An act to amend the
interest laws of this State," it was provided. "Where any contract or loan shall be made in this state, or between citizens of this state and any other state or country, bearing
interest at any rate which was or shall be lawful according to
any law of the state of Illinois, it shall and may be lawful to
make the amount of principal and interest of such contract or
loan payable in any other state or territory of the United
States, or in the city of London, England, and in all such
cases such contract or loan shall be deemed and considered as
governed by the laws of the state of Illinois, and shall not be
affected by the laws of the state or country where the same
shall be made payable." Gross's Stats. Illinois, 1869, 371,
c. 54, § 13.
And by another act, in force on and after February 16, 1857,
entitled "An act for the encourageitient and security of loans
of money," it was provided. "§ 14. It shall be lawful for any
person or corporation borrowing money in this state, to make
notes, bonds, bills, drafts, acceptances, mortgages or other securities, for the payment of principal or interest, at the rates
authorized by the laws of this state, payable at any place
where the parties may agree, although the legal rate of interest in such place may be less than in this state, and such
notes, bonds, bills, drafts, acceptances, mortgages or other securities shall not be regarded or held to be usurious, nor shall
any securities taken for the same, or upon such loans, be invalidated in consequence of the rate of interest of the state,
kingdom or country where the paper is made payable being
less than in this state, nor of any usury or penal law therein.
§ 15. No plea of usury nor defence founded upon an allegation
of usury shall be sustained in any court in this state, nor shall
any security be held invalid on an allegation of usury where
the rate of interest reserved, discounted or taken does not
exceed that allowed by the laws of this state, in consequence

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

of such security -being payable in a state, kingdom or country
where such rate of interest is not allowed. § 16. It shall be
lawful for all parties loaning money in this state, to take,
reserve or discount interest upon any note, bond, bill, draft,
acceptance or other commercial paper, mortgage or other
security, at any rate authorized by the laws of this state,
whether such paper or securities for principal or interest be
payable in this state, or in any other state, kingdom or country, without regard to the laws of any other state, kingdom
or country, and all such notes, bonds, bills, drafts, acceptances
or other commercial paper, mortgages or other security, shall
be held vdlid in this state, whether the parties to the same
reside in this state or elsewhere." Gross's Stats. Illinois,
1869, 372, c. 54.
These statutory provisions were in force at the time of the
contract of loan involved in this case. And although the
above acts of February 12, 1857, and February 16, 1857, were
repealed by the act approved March 31, 1874, in force July 1,
1874, they remained in full force and effect as to rights acquired or causes of action existing under them, and before the
repealing act went into operation. Rev Stats. Illinois, 1874, pp.
1012, 1023, 1046, c. 131, § 5, paragraphs 297 and 299, and § 6.
And by the act approved March 25, 1874, in force July 1,
1874, entitled "An act to revise the law in relation to the rate
of interest," this provision of former acts was reenacted and
preserved "When any bond, bill, draft, acceptance, mortgage or other contract shall have been or shall be made in
this state, or between citizens of this state, or a citizen-of this
state and any other state, territory or country, bearing interest
at a rate lawful by the laws of this state, may be made payable in any other state, territory or country, such contracts
shall be governed by the-laws of this state." Rev. Stats.
Illinois, 1874, 615, c. 74, § 8.
The contract of loan in question having been made between
a citizen of Illinois and a corporation of another State, and the
bonds having been executed in Illinois and secured by mortgage upon real estate there situated, the defence of usury, in a
court of the United States "sitting in and administering the

FOWLER v. EQUITABLE TRUST ,CO.
Oprmon"of the Court.

'laws of Illinois, cannot be sustained upon the ground simply
that the rate of interest, exacfed or reserved, was in excess of
that allowed by the law of the State in which the bonds are
made payable.
3. We come now to consider whether, according to the law
of Illinois, there was usury in this loan.
The statutes of Illinois, in force when this loan was made,
fixed six per cent per annum as the rate of interest upon the
loan or forbearance of any money, goods or things in action,
with liberty to parties to stipulate or agree that ten per cent
per annum be taken and paid. But it was provided that if
any person or corporation in that State should contract to receive a greater rate of interest or discount than ten per cent
upon any contract, verbal or written, such person or corporation should forfeit the whole of the interest contracted to be received, and should be entitled only to recover the principal sum
due to such person or corporation. Gross's Stats. Illinois, 1869,
2d ed. pp. 370-1, c. 54, Rev Stats. Illinois, 1874, p. 614, c. 74.
The contract was for a loan to Fowler of $9000, at ten per
cent interest per annum. Seven per cent of the interest was
evidenced by coupons attached to the nine bond of $1000
each, and secured with the bonds by the deed of trust. The
remaining three per cent, according to the testimony of Johnston, the company's local agent at Spfingfield through whom
the loan was made, was "discounted" at the time the loan was
finally negotiated. The amount received by Fowler in cash
from the company was $7809.69. It was paid by a draft of
Johnston on the company in favor of Fowler of date February 23, 1874.
In addition to the interest exacted for the loan, Fowler paid
Johnston, as his commissions, the sum of $100. In reference
to these commissions, and th relations held by him with the
Trust Company, Johnston testified "I had an agreement
with the defendant that upon the completion of this loan he
was to pay me a commission of one hundred dollars. After
the loan was completed and after the draft exhibited had
been delivered to the defendarit, he paid me this one hundred
dollars. The draft for $7809.69 exhibited herein was for the full

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

value of this $9000 loan on the day it was negotiated and
closed, as before stated and shown, and no deduction from
said full value of this loan on that day was made by me on
account of my said commission or on any other account whatever. The agreement under which this commission was paid
me by the defendant was unknown to the complainant, and
no part of said $100 belonged to or was paid to the complainant. The expense of the abstract of title furnished by the
defendant, and the acknowledging and recording of the trust
deed, was of course paid by the defendant, but no deduction on
account therefor was made from the present value of this loan
on the day named.
In the negotiation of this loan,
from its inception to its completion. I acted as the medium of
commrnication between the complainant and the defendant.
I was not authorized, neither did I attempt to accept or reject
the defendant's application for this loan - I did, however,
recommend its-acceptance by the complainant-nor did I
,pass on the question of title to the real estate, all these matters having been submitted to and decided by the complainant
in.New York, nor for what I did in connection with this loan
was I paid by the complainant anything, nor was I authorized
by the complainant to do anything in connection with this
loan more than I did and as I have shown."
On coss-examination Johnston said "This was the first
loan I made for complainant. Afterwards I made other loans,
not only to these parties, but to others. I had an understandsng with the complanant company a short time before thts loan
was made. Dins loan and all other loans I made were minpur
suance of thts understanding. The complainant furnished me
with the blank ' Exhibit F' [the application for the loan] in
this case and blank 'Exhibit D,' [the report of the loan as
negotiated with the borrower,] and gave me instructions as to
how they should be filled up, which I accordingly followed in
filling up -such blanks. When I procured an application in
this way I forwarded the same to the company for their consideration, acceptance or rejection. In my endorsement on
this application recommending the loan, in signing-my name
as agent, I understood myself as agent of the company sn thm

FOWLER v. EQUITABLE TRUST CO.
Opinion of the Court.

matter Complainant acted through me i making this loan.
In my arrangementwzth complainantfor macng these loans
it was the understanding that complamant was to pay me
nothing wkatever for my servces, and that I was to :procure
whatever pay I hadrom,the borrower"
In reference to Johnston's agency for the Trust Company,
it further appears that before this loan was made, one Rockwell, an officer or agent of the Trust Company, went to
Springfield, Illinois, to get some one to act as its agent at that
place. He asked Fowler to suggest some one to loan money
for the company on real estate. Fowler recommended Johnston, who, upon being introduced to Rockwell by Fowler, was
appointed. To the written application for the loan, the following was appended "I have examined the within application,
believe the statements to be correct, and recommend a loan to
applicant of $10,000 on the security offered. IR. P Johnston,
Agent."
The bonds having been executed by Fowler, they were
transmitted by Johnston to the company, at their New York
office, in a communication headed "Agency of Equitable Trust
Company, Springfield, Ills., Feb. 23, 18,74," and signed by him
as "Agent."
It is to be observed that out of the principal sum loaned
the Trust Company retained, by way of discount, what was
claimed to be the present value of such amount as would pay,
in advance, three per cent of the stipulated interest for the
whole period of the loan, five years. In view of this feature
in the case there was much discussion at the bar as to whether
it was -permissible, in Illinois, for the lender to exact and
receive interest in advance upon a loan made at the ighest
rate allowed by its laws. In view of numerous decisions of
the Supreme Court of that State, it is not necessary to examine
this question upon principle, for it is the settled doctrine of
that court that the mere taking of interest in advance does
not bring a loan within the prohibition of usury In Goodrich
v. Reynolds, 31 Illinois, 490, 498, it was said "The remaining plea sets up usury in this, that the interest was made
payable semi-annually It has long been settled, such reserva-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

tion is not usurious.

The whole interest may be lawfully

reserved in advance." AXcGill v. lVare, 4 Scammon, 21, 28,
Militchell v Lyman, 77 Illinois, 525, 529, 530, Brown v. Scottish-Amercan J-Mortgage Co., 110 Illinois, 235, 239, Hoyt v
Pawtucket Inst.for Savngs, 110 Illinois. 390, 394, Telford v
Garrels,132 Illinois, 550, 554.

Whether that doctrine would apply where the loan was for
such period that the exaction by the lender of interest in
advance would, at the outset, absorb so much of the principal
as to leave the borrower very little of the amount agreed to
be loaned to him, we need not say The present case does
not require.any expression of opinion upon such a point, for
the interest reserved in advance on the loan to Fowler was
only of three per cent out of ten per cent, and a reservation
to that extent, it would seem, is protected by the decisions of
the state court. The defence of usury, so far as it rests upon
the fact that three per cent of the stipulated interest was
taken in advance by the lender,.must, therefore, be overruled.
But, in view of other decisions of the Supreme Court of
Illinois, must not that defence be sustained, in respect to this
loan, upon the ground that the borrower was in effect required,
as a condition of the loan, and, in addition to the highest legal
rate of interest, to pay $100, under the guise of commissions,
to the lender's agent for procuring the loan 9 It is not the
case simply of a borrower employing a broker - -who has no
regular or established connection with the lender as agent
and no arrangement with the lender in respect to compensation for his services -to effect a loan, and agreeing to pay
him commissions. With the agreements of the latter kind
the courts have no concern, and they are not permitted to
affect the rights of the lender, where he does nothing more
than lend his money at such rate of interest as the statute
permits. Such is the rule in Illinois. Royt v Pawtucket
elford v Garrels,
Inst. for Savings, 110 Illinois, 390, 394,
132 Illinois, 550, 554 , Sanford v Zane, 133 Illinois, 199, 205.
These authorities, however, have no application to the case
before us. The Trust Company established an agency at
Springfield, Illinois, for the purpose of securing loans upon

FOWLER v. EQUITABLE TRUST CO.
Opinion of the Court.

real estate, and to that end constituted Johnston as its agent.
It made him a medium of communication between it and
those in that locality who might wish to borrow money It

supplied him with the necessary blank forms, and expected
him to make a report as to the sufficiency of the security
offered. Of course it knew that no one would regularly perform the duties of such a position without reasonable compensation. That the agent might receive such compensation, the
company came to an understanding with him at tlhe outset
that he must make the borrower pay for his services. With
such an arrangement between it and its agent, the company
need not be informed in any particular case of the amount the
latter would exact from the borrower as compensation for
effecting a loan. But it must be held to have known that the
agent would not devote his energies and time to its busmess
gratuitously, and would not forward to it an application for
a loan, unless the borrower agreed to compensate him for his
services. The services performed by Johnston, as its regular
local agent, charged with the duty of receiving and forwarding applications for loans, with his opinion as to thie sufficiency
of the security offered, were of substantial value to the company, as much so as if they had been performed under an
arrangement that the company should, out of the money
loaned, retain for him the amount which, by previous agreement with the borrower, he was to receive as his compensation. And the services performed by him were just what
they would have been had he accepted the agency under
such a specific arrangement as that just suggested.
Under all the circumstances, was not this transaction tainted
with usury 2 Should not the $100 paid to the company's
agent be regarded as part Df the amount which Fowler was
required to pay for the use of the money borrowed? These
questions are answered by the Supreme Court of Illinois. In
Payne v Newcomb, 100. Illinois, 611, 616, the inquiry was
whether the commissions paid by the borrower to the person
through whom a loan, at the highest legal rate, was effected,
were to be taken into account in determining whether the
transaction was usurious. That case is so directly in point
VOL. c=-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

that we feel justified in making extracts from the opinion of
the court. It was said "Did Stevens [the lender] know that
Newcomb [the broker] was charging for his services, and collecting it from the borrower 2 Newcomb says that it was the
understanding he was to get it of the borrower, and that
establishes the fact beyond all cavil. Were these payments
of commissions of benefit or profit to Stevens 9 They unquestionably were, as they paid his agent for long-continued and
-valuable services rendered by Newcomb for him. No one
-will believe that Newcomb thus incurred liability to Stevens,
-and rendered skilful and valuable services for him for more
than twenty years as a mere gratuity It was not so underetood. Newcomb says he was to get his pay from the borrower. Stevens then paid what he owed to Newcomb by
requiring the agent to impose it on the persons to whom loans
were made. The arrangement amounted to no more or less
than requiring the agent to loan for a per cent sufficiently
high to yield Stevens the highest rate of interest allowed by
the law, and to pay the agent for his responsibility, labor,
skill and tro'uble. In effect, the transaction is the same as
had the loan been made at fifteen per cent, and ten had been
paid to Stevens and five to Newcomb. This was the result
which was by the parties intended before the inception of the
transaction. It was in pursuance of an arrangement of the
lender and his agent.
It is, however, claimed that
Stevens is not liable for what Newcomb retained and charged
for what is calle4 commissions -that he had the right to
charge any sum he chose, and that would not render the loan
usurious. Had Stevens not known that Newcomb was making
such charges, it may be that he would not have been affected
by them. But here it was agreed between Stevens and Newcomb that the latter should charge a commission to the borrower to pay him for his services. Stevens obtained the services of Newcomb. They were of value to him, and no one
will pretend that Newcomb rendered them as a gratuity
They were rendered for Stevens, and .they were paid for by
him by indirectly charging the amount to and requiring the
borrower to pay it, and this. too, by the express authority of

FOWLER v. EQUITABLE TRUST CO.
Opinion of the Court.

Stevens. Had he directed Newcomb to loan at fifteen per
cent for the first year, and ten per cent for each succeeding
year, and to retain five per cent on the loan for the first year,
and two and a half per cent for renewals and extensions, and
to retain the extra per cent above ten per. cent as compensation for his services, would any one say that was not usury 2
And in what does the transaction differ by the form given it
by the agreement of the parties2 In each case, Stevens
would get N'ewcomb's services, and compel the borrower to
-pay them." And the court adds "There is no more familiar
rule in the law than that the usury laws cannot be evaded by
mere pretences, shifts or evasions. This rule runs through
all of the books, and requires the citation of no authority in
its support. The policy of the statute is to protect the weak
and necessitous from the oppression of the strong, and to sanction such transactions as this would be to defeat that policy
Courts have no right to judge of the policy, but must enforce
the law as they find it. Whenever deemed proper, the General Assembly will change the policy by modifying or repealing the statute, but until so modified or repealed we have no
power to alter or change its provisions."
In the previous case of Peddicord v Connard,85 Illinois,
102, 103, the court said. "It is first urged that although there
may have been a greater rate of interest retained than is permitted by the law, still, it was not usury, unless it was agreed
and so understood when the transaction occurred, and that there
was no such understanding or agreement in this case. Such
seems to be the ruling of the courts in Great Britain and the
various States of the Union in which the entire debt is forfeited
or heavy penalties are imposed when the transaction is tainted
with usury The law does not 4avor forfeitures, and in such
cases the courts hold to a rigid and strict compliance with the
law imposing the penalty It is, therefore, probable that those
courts would not give so strict a construction if the.only loss
were, as it is with us, the interest on the debt for 'the money
loaned or forborne. Reason does not require it, as it does
where the debt and interest are lost by reason of taking or
contracting for a trifle more than is sanctioned by the law

.404

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

Hence we are not prepared to adopt so rigid a construction.
If an usurious contract is made, whether express or implied, at
the time of or subsequent to the entering into the agreement,
to take or reserve more than lawful interest, it is 'such an agreement as is within the purview of the statute." And, in a subsequent case "The statute cannot be avoided by any shift or
device which may be resorted to by the parties. The form of
the transaction is not material, but whenever it clearly appears
that more than the legal rate of interest has been exacted, the
contract will be held to be usurious." Leonard v Patton, 106
Illinois, 99, 104.
We do not find that the principles announced in Payne v
Yewcomb have been overruled or modified by the state court.
On the contrary, that case has been frequently referred to
and its doctrines recognized. In Hoyt v Pawtucket Inst.for
Savbngs, 110 Illinois, 390, 394, it appears that Taylor, a loan
broker of Chicago, sent to the Pawtucket Institution for Savings, in Rhode Island, an application by Hoyt for a loan, which
was accepted. The lender retained $250 out of the $5000
loaned, to pay a half year's interest in advance. The broker
charged the borrower $250 as his commission, and the latter
received only $4500. The court said "This commission received by Taylor was not fronm any arrangement with the
Institutionfor Sawngs or wsth its knowledge. It got no part
of the commission, and received no more than ten per cent
interest on the money loaned. Brokers negotiating loans of
other people's money may charge the borrower commissions,
without thereby making a loan at the full rate of legal interest
usurious. Ballinger v Bourland, 87 Illinois, 513, Phillips v
-Roberts, 90 Illinois, 492, Boylston v Bain, 90 Illinois, 283.
Payne v Newcomb, 100 Illinois, 611, was not intended to
decide anything to the contrary, as seems to be supposed by
counsel for plaintiffs in error. In the latter case there was an
express understanding between Stevens, the lender, and -Yewcomb, hs agent, that N¥ewcomb should get hs commmsszonsfrom,
the borrower" In Cox v. -Life Ins. Co., 113 Illinois, 382, 385,
the court, after observing that the fact that an agent, wthout
the authority, consent or knowledge of hw _prsnoipal, upon

HEOWLER v. EQUITABLE TRUST CO.
Opmion of the Court.

loaning the money of the latter, exacts from the borrower a
sum in excess of lawful interest does not make the loan usuri-

ous, said of Payne v Newcomb, 100 Illinois, 611, that it was
"quite another case than the one before us, and does not appily
to the facts of the present case. There, services were rendered
by the loan agent for the lender of the money, and the commission paid by the borrower to the agent was paid under a
2pre-arrangementmade between the lender and the agent that the
latter should get his compensation for the services rendered by
him to the lender, by charging commmszons to the borrower"
See also Ballinger v Bourland,87 Illinois; 513, 516, R'ihlholz
v Wolf, 103 Illinois, 362, 366, Meers v Stevens, 106 Illinois,
549, 552; Ammondson v Ryan, 111 Illinois, 506, 510, iMass.
.Afut. Ltfe Ins. Co. v Boggs, 121 Illinois, 119, 127.
This case cannot be distinguished from Payne v Newcomb.
In view of the decisions of the Supreme C6urt of Illinois, and
the manifest policy of the law of that State relating to usury,
we cannot adjudge that a loan, under a fixed arrangement
between the lender and an individual that the latter will act
as the agent of the former at a particular place, and obtain
compensation for his services by way of commissions exacted
from the borrower, is to be governed by the same principles
that apply in the case of one who holds no relitions of agency
with the lender, but:is a mere broker getting his commissions
from the borrower without the knowledge, authority or assent
of the lender. It is not consistent with the law of Illinois, as
declared by its highest court, that the lender, when taking the
highest rate of interest, shall impose upon borrowers the expense of maintaining agencies in different parts of the State
through which loans may be obtained. We, therefore, hold
that the exaction by the Trust Company's agent, pursuant to
his general arrangement with it, of commissions over and
above the ten per cent interest stipulated to be paid by the
borrower, rendered this loan usurious.
The result is that the recovery must be limited to the principal sum due the company The statute declares, in respect
to an usurious contract, that the lender shall only recover the
principal sum due; in ofher words,, that judgment shall be
rendered only for that sum.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

But what are the rules for the guidance of the court in determining the principal sum due 2 In Illinois it is settled that
a party making application to a court of equity for affirmative
relief against an usurious contract is entitled to such relief only
upon the condition that he shall pay, or offer to pay, the principal sum with legal interest. Clarke v Finlon, 90 Illinois,
245, 248, Sanner v. Smith, 89 Illinois, 123, 125, Carter v.
-Moses, 39 Illinois, 539, 542, Henderson v Bellew, 45 Illinois,.
322, 324, and Tooke v .Newman, 75 Illinois, 215, 217. It is.
equally well settled there that one who has voluntarily paid
usurious interest cannot recover it back in an action at law
Riddle v Rosenfeld, 103 Illinois, 600, 603, Ifadden v .Lnnes,
24 Illinois, 381, 384, Town v. Wood, 37 Illinois, 512, 516,
Carter v Moses, 39 Illinois, 539, 542, Tomnkpns v Hill, 28
Illinois, 519. But it is the established doctrine of the Supreme
Court of that State that these rules have no application where
the transaction has not been settled and the lender sues to
recover a balance due on the principal sum. In such a case
the borrower, being sued, may have all payments made by him
on account of interest applied in diminution of such part of
the principal as remains unpaid. Harrw v Bressler, 119 fllinois, 467, 472, Payne v lVewcomb, 100 Illinois, 611, 623;
Hamill v. Mason, 51 Illinois, 488, Hefner v Vandolah, 6a
Illiqois; 483, 486, Saylor v Daniels,37 Illinois, 331, Mitchell
v. Lyman, 77 Illinois, 525. Such is the uniform construction
of the statute, which, in the case of usury in a loan, forfeits.
the whole of the interest contracted to be received, and permits
a recovery only for the principal sum due. As there is no
interest really due, if the transaction be usurious- the right
to recover interest being forfeited at the moment the contract.
of loan is consummated - whatever the borrower pays on account of the loan must go as credit on the principal sum, otherwise, the usurer would get the benefit of his illegal contract,
and the statute be rendered inoperative.
The court below proceeded upon the ground that the Trust
Company was entitled to a judgment for the amount actually
received by Fowler, in cash, with interest at six per cent from
the date of the decree, and no credit was giveir on the prin-

FOWLER v. EQUITABLE TRUST CO.
Opinion of the Court.

cipal sum for numerous payments made by the borrower on
account of interest. Under the settled course of decisions in
the Supreme Court of Illinois, this decree must be held: erroneous. Fowler paid off all the interest represented by the coupons, and made payments after the debt became due. And as
the company retained out of the $9000 an amount equal to the
present value of three per cent of the ten per cent stipulated
to be paid, Fowler must be regarded as having- paid that
amount on the principal debt. Within the meaning of the
statute, the amount due the company, at the date of the decree
below, was 1. The principal sum, $9000, diminished by all
payments made by Fowler at any time on account of the
debt. 2. The sums paid bv the company for insurance,
taxes and assessments, with interest at ten per cent on each
from date of payment until the rendition of the decree, that
being the rate fixea in the deed of trust in respect of sums
paid.by the mortgagee for insurance, taxes and assessments
on the property which the mortgagors should have paid.
The decree should have been only for the aggregate amount
due on these two accounts, ascertained in the mode just
indicated, with interest from its rendition at six per cent
per annum, the rate allowed on judgments by the statute of
Illinois.
The Trust Company insists that the decree should have
made to it an allowance for solicitor's fees. There is no foundation for this claim. The trust deed provides that in the case
of a sale by the trustee, at public auction, upon advertisement,
all costs, charges and expenses of such advertisement, sale
and conveyance, including commissions, such as were at the
time of sale allowed by the laws of Illinois to sheriffs on sale
of real estate on execution, should be paid out of the proceeds.
This provision does not impose upon the borrower the burden
of paying to the lender a solicitor's fee where a suit is brought
for foreclosure. The commissions referred to in the deed are
allowed only where the property is sold, upon advertisement,
by the trustee, without suit. The trust deed made no provision for a solicitor's fee to the company in the event suit wos
brought. That a suit became necessary because of the refusal

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

of the trustee to act, is no reason for taxing such a fee against
the mortgagor.
The decree ss reversed, and the cause remanded with directons to modify the decree nn accordancewtth the srmoples
of tk'i o2pn'on.

FOWLER v. EQUITABLE TRUST COMPANY (2)
EQUITABLE TRUST COMPANY v. FOWLER. (2)
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Nos. 34, 35.

Argued April 16, 17, 1891. - Decided October 26,1891.

The decision below in these cases is reversed on the authority of Fowler
v. Equitable Trust Company, ante, 384.
THE

court stated the case as follows.

The Trust Company made a loan to Rose H. Fowler, a citizen of Illinois, of the sum of $6000, for'five years, with interest
at the rate of ten per cent per annum, payable semi-annually
The latter executed to the company six coupon bonds of $1000
each, dated May 1, 1874, payable May 1, 1879, with interest
semi-annually at the rate of seven per cent per annum, the
principal and interest payable at the office of the company in
New York. As security for the payment of the bonds and the
interest thereon, the borrower conveyed to Jonathan Edwards,
trustee, a lot in Springfield, Illinois, with the appurtenances
thereon. The deed was sinilar in its provisions to the one
given in the preceding cases, Nos. 32 and 33.
The present suit was brought October 27, 1882, to foreclose
the grantor's right and equity of redemption, and for a sale in
satisfaction of the amount found, upon an accounting, to be
due the Trust Company Sophie Fowler was made a defendant
upon the ground that she claimed some interest in the mortgaged property She filed an answer and cross-bill, to which,

