OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

.Mr lenry C. Ide for defendant in error.
FULLFR, C. J
The mandate in this cause will issue forthwith, and if the plaintiffs in error seasonably take and prosecute an appeal from that rendered by the Circuit Court, leave
will be gTanted them to file as part of the return on said appeal the transcript of the record in this cause.

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v.
BOTSFORID.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
No. 1375. Submitted January 6,1891.-Decided

fay 25,1891.

A court of the United States cannot order a plaintiff, in an action for an
injury to the person, to submit to a surgical examination m advance of
the trial.

THE original action was by Clara L. Botsford against the
Union Pacific Railwav Company, for negligence in the construction and care of an upper berth in a sleeping car in which
she was a passenger, by reason of which the berth fell upon
her head, bruising and wounding her, rupturing the membranes of the brain and spinal cord, and causing a concussion
of the same, resulting in great suffering and pain to her in
body and mind, and in permanent and increasing injuries.
Answer, a general denial.
Three days before the trial (as appeared by the defendant's
bill of exceptions) "the defendant moved the court for an
order against the plaintiff, requiring her to submit to a surgical examination, in the presence of her own surgeon and attorneys, if she desired their presence, it being proposed by
the defendant that such examination should be made in manner not to expose the person of the plaintiff in any indelicate
manner, the defendant at the time informing the court that

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. BOTSFORD.

251

Opinion of the Court.

such examination was necessary to enable a correct diagnosis
of the case, and that without such examination the defendant
would be without any witnesses as to her condition. The
court overruled said motion, and refused to make said order,
upon the sole gi'ound that this court had no legal right or
power to make and enforce such order."
To this ruling and action of the court the defendant duly
excepted, and after a trial, at which the plaintiff and. other
witnesses testified in her behalf, and which resulted in a verdict and judgment for her in the sum of $10,000, sued out this
writ of error.
JI& John F Dillon and -r Harry Rubbard for plaintiff
in error.
-Mr Addison C. Harm for defendant in error.
MR.JUSTICE GRAYafter stating the case as above, delivered
the opinion of the court.
The single question presented by this record is 'Whether, in a
civil action for an injury to the person, the court, on application of the defendant, and in advance of the trial, may order
the plaintiff, without his or her consent, to submit to a surgical examination as to the extent of the injury sued for.
We concur with the Circuit Court in holding that it had no
legal right or power to make and enforce such an order.
No right is held more sacred, or is more carefully guarded,
by the common law, than the right of every individual to the
possession and control of his own person, free from all r straint or interference of others, unless by clear and unqueStionable authority of law As well said by Judge Cooley;
"The right to one's person may be said to be a right of coyplete immunity to be let alone." Cooley on Torts, 29.
For instance, not only wearing apparel, but a watch or a
jewel, worn on the person, is, for the time being, privileged
from being taken under distress for rent, or attachment on
mesne process, or execution for debt, or writ of replevin. 3
B1. Com. 8, Sunbolf v. Alford, 3 M. & -W 248, 253*, 254*,

OCTOBER TER]S, 189u.
Opinion of the Court.

-razTk v Parks, 8 Gray, 517, Xaxham v. Day, 16 Gray,
213.
The inviolability of the person is as much invaded by a
compulsory stripping and exposure as by a blow To compel
any one, and especially a woman, to lay bare the body, or to
submit it to the touch of a stranger, without lawful authority,
is an indignity, an assault and a trespass, and no order or
process, commanding such an exposure or submission, was
ever known to the common law. in the administration of justice between individuals, except in a very small number of
cases, based upon special reasons, and upon ancient practice,
coming down from ruder ages, now mostly obsolete in England, and never, so far a9 we are aware, introduced into this
country
In former times, the English courts of common law might,
if they saw fit, try by inspection or examination, without the
aid of a jury, the question of the infancy, or of the 'identity of
a party, or, on an appeal of maihem, the issue of maihem or
no maihem, and, in an action of trespass for maihem, or for an
atrocious battery, might, after a verdict for the plaintiff, and
on his, motion, and upon their own inspection of the wound,
mper vtsum vulnerms, increase the damages at their discretion.
In each of those exceptional cases, as Blackstone tells us, "it
is not thought necessary to summon a jury to decide it," because "the fact, from its nature, must be evident to the court,
either from ocular demonstration or other irrefragable proof,"
and, therefore, "'the law departs from its usual resort, the verdict of twelve men, and relies on the judgmnent of the court
alone." The inspection was not had fon the purpose of submitting the'result to the jury, but the question was thought
too easy. of decision to need submission to a jury at all. 3 B.
Com. 331-333.
The authority of -courts of divorce, in determining a question
of impotence as affecting the validity of a marriage, to order
an inspection by surgeons of the person of either party, rests
upon the interest which the public, as well as the parties, have
in the question of upholding or dissolving the marriage state,
and upon the necessity of such evidence to enable the court to

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. BOTSFORD.

253

Opinion of the Court.

exercise its jurisdiction, and is derived from the civil and
canon law, as administered in spiritual and ecclesiastical
courts, not proceeding in any respect according to the course
of the common law Brggs v Morgan, 2 Hagg. Con. 324:,
S. C. 3 Phillimore, 325, Devanbagh v Devanbagh, 5 Paige,
554, Le Barron v Ze Barron, 35 Vermont, 365.
The writ de ventre insmczendo, to ascertain whether a
woman convicted of a capital crime was quick with child,
was allowed by the common law, in order to guard against
the taking of the life of an unborn child for the crime of
the mother.
The only purpose, we believe, for which the like-writ was
allowed by the common law, in a matter of civil right, was to
protect the rightful succession to the property of a deceased
person against fraudulent clainis of bastards, when. a widow
was suspected to feign herself with child in order to produce
a supposititious heir to the estate, in which case the heir or
devisee might have this writ to examine whether she was with
child or not, and, if she was, to keep her under proper restraint
till delivered. 1 Bl. Com. 456, Bac. Ab. Bastard, A. In
cases of that class, the writ has been issued in England in
quite recent times. A Pre BlaTkemore, 14 Law Journal (N. S.)
.Ch. 336. But the learning and research df the counsel for
the plaintiff in error have failed to produce an instance of its
ever having been considercd, in any part of the United States,
as suited to the habits and condition of the people.
So far as the books within our reach show, no order to inspect the body of a party in a personal action appears to have
been made, or even moved for, in any of the English coukts
of common law, at any period of their history
The most analogous cases in England, that have come under
our notice, are two in the Common Bench, in each of which
an order for the inspection of a building was asked for in an
action for work and labor done thereon, and was refused for
want of power in the court to make or enforce it.
In one of them, decid-d in 1838, counsel moved for an order
that the plaintiff and his witnesses have a view of the building
and an inspection of the work done thereon, and stated that

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opimon of the Court.

the object of the motion was to prevent great expense, to
obviate the necessity of calling a host of surveyors, and to
avoid being considered trespassers. Thereupon one of the
judges said "Then you are asking the court to make an
order for you to commit a trespass," and Chief Justice
Tindal said. "Suppose the defendants keep the door shut,
you will come to us to grant an attachment, could we grant
it in such a case 2 You had better see if you can find any
authority to support you, and mention it to the court again."
On a subsequent day, the counsel stated that he had not been
able to find any case in point, and therefore took nothing by
his motion. lewkam v Tate, 1 Arnold, 244, 8. 0.6 Scott, 574.
In the other case, in 1840, the court discharged a similar
order, saying "The order, if valid, might, upon disobedience
to it, be enforced by attachment. Then, it is evidently one
which a judge has no power to make. If the party should
refuse so reasonable a thing as an inspection, it may be a matter of argument before the jury, but the court has no power
to enforce it." Turquandv Strand Ulnwn, 8 Dowling, 201,
S. C. 4 Jurist, 74.
In the English Common Law Procedure Act of 1851, enlarging the powers which the courts had before, and authorizing them, on the application of either party, to make an
order "for the inspection by the jury, or by himself, or by his
witnesses, of any real or personal property, the inspection of
which may be material to the proper determination of the
question in dispute," the omission to mention inspection of the
person is significant evidence that no such inspection, without
consent, was allowed by the law of England. Taylor on Ev
(6th ed.) §§ 502-504.
Even orders for the inspection of documents could not be
made by a court of common law, until expressly authorized
by statute, except when the document was counted or pleaded
on, or might be considered as held in trust for the moving
party Taylor on Ev §§ 1588-1595, 1 Greenleaf on Ev.

§ 559.
In the case at bar, it was argued that the plaintiff in an
action for personal injury may be permitted by the court, as

UNIONf PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. BOTSFORD.

255

Opinion of the Court.

in .Mulhado v Brooklyn_Railroad,30 N. Y 370, to exhibit
his wounds to the jury in order to show their nature or extent,
and to enable a surgeon to testify on that subject, and therefore may be required by the court to do the same thing, for
the same -purpose, upon the motion of the defendant. But
the answer to this is, that any one may expose his body, if he
chooses, with a due regard to decency, and with the permission of the court, but that he cannot be compelled to do so,
in a civil action, without his consent. If he unreasonably
refuses to show his injuries, when asked to do so, that fact
may be considered by the jury, as bearing on his good faith,
as in any other case of a party declining to produce the best
evidence in his power. Clifton -v Unsted States, 4 How 242,
Bryant v Stilwell, 24 Fenn. St. 314, Turquand v Strand
Unzon, above citbd.
In this country, the earliest instance of an order for the inspection of the body of the plaintiff in an action for a personal
injury appears to have been in 1868 by a judge of the Superior
Court of the city of New York in Valsh v Sayre, 52 How
Pract. 334, since overruled by decisions in general term in the
same State. Roberts v. Ogdensburgh& Zake ChamplaIn Railroad., 29 Htun, 154, Nfeuman v Thrd Avenue Railroad, 18
,Tones & Spencer, 412, XoSwyny v Broadway Railroad,27
N. Y State Reporter, 363. And the power to make such an
order was peremptorily denied in 1873 by the Supreme Court
of k issouri, and in 1882 by the Supreme Court of Illinois.
Loyd v Hannibal & St. Joseph Railroad,53 Missouri, 509,
Parkerv Enslow, 102 Illinois, 272.
Within the last fifteen years, indeed, as appears- by the ca~ses
cited in the brief of the plaintiff in error,1 a practice to grant
1 Schroeder v. Chtcago &c. Railway, 47 Iowa, 3751 "Miamt &o. Turnpike
Co. v. Baily, 37 Ohio St. 104, Atchison, Topeka & Santa F Railroadv. Thul,
29 Kansas, 466; White v. Milwaukee Railway, 61 Wisconsin, 536;- Hatfield v.
St. Paul & Duluth Railroad, 33 Minnesota, 130; Stuart v. Havens, 17 Nebraska, 211, Owens v. Kansas City &c. Railroad, 95 Missouri, 169; Sibley v.
Smith, 46 Arkansas, 275, Missour Pacific Railroadv. Johnson, 72 Texas, 95Richmond & Danville Railroad v. Childress, 82 Georgia, 719; Alabama &c.
Railroad v. Hilt, 90 Alabama, 71.

OCTOBER TER-M, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

such orders has prevailed m the courts of several of the Western and Southern States, following the lead of the Supreme
Court of Iowa in a case decided in 1877. The consideration
due to the decisions of those courts has induced us fully to
examine, as we have done above, the precedents and analogies
on which they rely Upon mature advisement, we retain our
original opinion that such an order has no warrant of law
In the State of Indiana, the question appears not to be settled. The opinions of its highest court are conflicting and
indecisive. Kfern v Brtdwell, 119 Indiana, 226, 229, -Hess v
Lowrey, 122 Indiana, 225, 233, Terre Haute & Indianayolis
Railroad v Brunker, 26 INortheastern Reporter, 178. And
the only statute, which could be supposed to bear upon the
question, simply authorizes the court to order a view of real or
personal property which is the subject of litigation, or of the
place in which any material fact occurred. Indiana Rev Stat.
1881, c. 2, § 538.
But this is not a question which is governed by the law or
practice of the State m which the trial is had. It depends
upon the power of the national courts under the Constitution
and laws of the United States.
The Constitution, in the Seventh Amendment, declares that
in all suits at common law, where the value in controversy
shall exceed twenty dollars, trial by jury shall be preserved.
Congress nas enacted that "the mode of proof in the trial of
actions at common law shall be by oral testimony and examination of witnesses in open court, except as hereinafter provided," and has then made special provisions for taking
depositions. Rev Stat. § 861, 863 & seq. The only power
of discovery or inspection, conferred by Congress, is to "require
the parties to produce books or writings in their possession or
power, which contain evidence pertinent to the issue, in cases
and under circumstances where they might be compelled to
produce the same by the ordinary rules of proceeding in chancery," and to nonsuit or default a party failing to comply with
such an order. Rev Stat. § 7241. And the provision of § 914,
by which the practice, pleadings and forms and modes of proceeding in the courts of each State are to be followed in

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY CO.

.

BOTSFORD.

257

Opinion of the Court.

actions at law in the courts of the United States held within
the same State, neither restricts nor enlarges the power or
these courts to order the examination of parties out of court.
NTudd v. Burrows, 91 U. S. 41A),442, Imdianapolis &S t. Lo uts
Railroadv. .Iorst,93 U. S. 291, 300, Ex)arte Fik, 113 U. S.
'113, (Yateaugay Iroa Co., petitoner, 128 U. S. 544, 5541.
In Exparte Fis7k, just cited, the question was whether a statute of New York, permitting a party to an action at law to be
examined by his adversary as a witness in advance of the trial,
was applicable after an action begun in a court of the State
had been removed into the Circuit Court of the United States.
It was argued that the object of § 861 of the Revised Statutes
of the United States was to provide a mode of proof on the
trial, and not to affect this proceeding in the nature of discovery, conducted in accordance with the practice prevailing
in New York. 113 U S. 717. But this court, speaking by
Mr. Justice M-iller, held that this was a matter of evidence,
and governed by that section, saying "Its purpose is clear to
provide a mode of proof in trials at law, to the exclusion of all
other modes of proof." "It is not according to common usage
to call a party in advance of the -trial at law, and subject him
to all the skill of opposing counsel, to extract something which
lie may use or not as it suits his purpose." "Every action at
law in a court of the Unied States must be governed by the
rule or by the exceptions which the statute provides. There
is no place for exceptions made by state statutes. The court
is Aot at liberty to adopt them, or to require a party to conform to them. It has no power to subject a party -to such an
examination as this." 113 U. S. 724..
So we say here. The order moved for, subjecting the plaintiffs person to examination by a surgeon, without her consent
and in advance of the trial, was not according to the common.
law, to common usage, or to- the statutes of the United States.
The Circuit Court, to adopt the words of Mr. Justice Miller,
"has no power to subject a party to such an examination as
this."
Judgment afirmed.
voi. cxLI-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Dissenting Opinion. Brewer, Brown, JJ.

MR. JUSTICE BREWER, with whom concurrect 9R. JUSTICE
BROwN, dissenting.
Mr. Justice Brown and myself dissent from the foregoing
opinion. The silence of common law authorities upon the
question in cases of this kind proves little or nothing. The
number of actions to recover damages, in early days, was,
compared with later times, limited, and very few of those
difficult questions as to the nature and extent of ,the injuries,
which now form an important part of such litigations, were
then presented to the courts. If an examination was asked,
doubtless it was conceded without objection, as one of those
matters the right to which was beyond dispute. Certainly
the power of the courts and of the common law courts to compel a personal examination was, in inanycases, often exercised,
and unchallenged. Indeed, wherever the interests of justicp
seem to require such an examination, it was ordered. The
instances of this are familiar; and in those instances the proceedings were, as a rule, adverse to the party whose examination was ordered. It would be strange that, if the power
to order such an examination was conceded in proceedings
adverse to the party ordered to submit thereto, it should be
denied where the suit is by the party whose examination is
sought. In this country the decisions of the highest courts of
the various States are conflicting. This is the first time it has
been presented to this court, and it is, therefore, an open question. There is here no inquiry as to the extent to which such
an examination may be required, or the conditions under
which it may be held, or the proper provisions against oppression or rudeness, nor any inquiry as to what the court may
do for the purpose of enforcing its order. As the question is
presented, it is only whether the court can make such an
,order.
The *end of litigation is justice. Knowledge of the truth is
essential thereto. It is conceded, and it is a matter of frequent occurrence, that in the trial of suits of this nature the
plaintiff may make in the court-room, in the presence of
the jury, any not indecent exposure of his person to show the

'UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY UO. v. BOTSFORD.

259

Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Brown, JJ.

extent of his injuries, and it is conceded, and also a matter of
frequent occurrence, that in 'private he may call his personal
friends and his own physicians into a room, and there permit
them a full examination of his person, in order that they may
testify as to what they see and find. In other words, he may
thus disclose the actual facts to the jury if his interest require,
but by this decision, if his interests are against such a disclosure, it cannot be compelled. It seems strange that a plaintiff may, in the presence of a jury, be permitted to roll up his
sleeve and disclose on his arm a wound of which he testifies,
but when he testifies as to the existence of such a wound, the
court, though persuaded that he is perjuring himself, cannot
require him to roll up his sleeve, and thus make manifest the
truth, nor require him in the like interest of truth, to step
into an adjoining room, and lay bare his arm to the inspection
of surgeons. It is said that there is a sanctity of the person
which may not be outraged. We believe that truth and justice are more sacred than any personal consideration., and if
in other cases in the interests of justice, or from considerations
of mercy, the courts may, as they often do, require such personal examination, why should they not exercise the same
power in cases like this, to prevent wrong and injustice 2
It is not necessary, nor is it claimed, that the court has
-power to fine and imprison for disobedience of such an.order.
Disobedience to it is not a matter of contempt. It is an order
like those requiring security for costs. The court never fines
or imprisons for disobedience thereof. It simply dismisses.the
case, or stays the tral until the security is given. So it seems.
to us that justice requires, and that the court has the power to
order, that a party who voluntarily comes into court alleging
personal injuries, and demanding damages therefor, should
permit disinterested witnesses to see the nature and extent of
those. injuries in order that the jury may be informed thereof
by other than the plaintiff and his friends; and that compliance with such an order may be enforced by staying the
trial, or dismissing the case.
For these reasons we dissent.

