STEIN v. BIENVlLIE WATER SUPPLY CO.
Syllabus.

in question, although they were from animals slaughtered
in Illinois, had the right, under the Constitution, to compete
in the markets of Virginia upon terms of equality with the
owners of like meats, from animals slaughtered in Virginia
or elsewhere within one hundred miles from the place of sale.
Any local regulation which in terms or by its necessary operation denies this equality in the markets of a State is, when
applied to the people and products or industries of other
States, a direct burden upon commerce among the States, and,
therefore, void. Welton v. 7issour', 91 U. S. 275, 281, Railroad Co. v. Husen, 95 U. S. 465, Minnesota v Barber, 136
U S. 313, 319." The case of Brmmer v Rebman was decided
in accordance with these views, the law in question being held
to be unconstitutional and void. The decision in that case is
so directly apposite to the present that it is unnecessary to
prolong the discussion, or to cite further authorities.
The judgment of the Corporation Court of the city of
Norfolk is
Reversed, and .the cause Pemanded for further proceedings
not incons'stent with thss optnton.
M]. JusncE BRowN, not having been a member of the
court wi-en this case was argued, took no part in the decision.

STEIN v. BIENVILLE' WATER SUPPLY COMPANY
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.
o.

4.

Argued April 28,1891. -Decided

May 11, 1891.

A contract with a municipal corporation, whereby the corporation grants
to the contractor the sole privilege of suppipng the municipality with
water from a designated source for a term of years, is not impaired,
within the meaning of the contract clause of the Constitution, by a grant
to another party of a privilege to supply it with water from a different
source.

OCTOBER TERY£, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.
Where a contract with a municipal corporation is susceptible of two meanings, the one restricting and the other extending the powers of .the corporation, that construction is to be adopted which works the least harm
to the State.

THE casd is stated in the opinion.
.r

W Rallett Phillipsfor appellant.

,Xr T A. Hamilton and .Mr _D P Bestor for,appellee.
MR. JUSTIcE RARLAN. delivered the opinion of the court.

This case presents a question Under the clause of the Constitution of the United States relating to the impairment by state
legislation of the obligation of contracts.
The appellant, who was the plaintiff below, claims that his
testator, Albert Stein, deceased, acquired by valid contract, and
to the exclusion of all other persons or corporations, the right
and privilege, by a system of public works, of supplying the
city of Mobile and its inhabitants with waterfrom whatever
stream or mver drawn, until that city should redeem and purchase the water works constructed and maintained by the
testator in accordance with the terms of that contract, and
that the obligation of such contract was impaired by an act
of the legislature of Alabama, approved February 19th, 1883,
incorporating the Bienville Water Supply Company Acts of
Alabama, 1882-1883, p. 451. In this view the court below did
not concur, and it dismissed the bill for want of' equity 34
Fed. Rep. 145.
It will conduce to a clear understanding of the issue between
the present parties if we trace the history of the question of
water supply for Mobile and its inhabitants, as disclosed in
the legislation of Alabama and in the action upon that subject,
from time to time, of the constituted authorities of that city
This being done, the inquiry as to whether the above act of
1883 impairs the obligation of the contract that Stein had
with the city can be solved without extended discussion.
The first act, to which attention is called, is that of December 20th, 1820, incorporating the Mobile Aqueduct Company

STEIN v. BIENVILLE WATER SUPPLY CO.
Opinion of the Court.

Its preamble recites that "it has been represented, that it
would be of singular advantage to the health and commerce
of the city of Mobile, to be supplied with water from some of
the running streams in its vicinity, which would be attended
with too much labor and expense to be effected by laying a
tax for the purpose," and that "it has also been represented,
that certain individuals have agreed to associate themselves
together for the purpose of conducting a supply of water from
a creek called Three-Mile Creek, otherwise Bayou Chatogue,
for the use of the citizens and other persons residing in the
city of Mobile." In consequence of these representations certain named persons were constituted a corporation under the
name of the Mobile Aqueduct Company, with authority to
establish a channel or canal large enough to contain and conduct water in quantities sufficient to supply the citizens and
other persons of Mobile. The act provided "that the said
corporation and their successors shall have and enjoy the
exclusive right and privilege of conducting and bringing
water for the supply of said city for the space of forty years-'
Provided,The said corporation or their successors shall, before
the expiration of three years, from the passage of this act,
cause to be conducted the waterfrom the sazd bayou or creek,
to the said city of Mobile, in the manner hereinbefore proposed Andprovmded also, That, after the expiration of the said
term of years, the said water works shall become the property
of the said city, and shall be for the free use of the inhabitants
thereof forever." Acts of Alabama, 1820, p. 72.
Nothing was done by this company And by an act approved' December 24th, 1824, amendatory of the 'charter of
Mobile, the act of December 20th, 1820, was declared null and
void, and all the rights, privileges and powers granted by it
were transferred to and vested in that city for the use and
benefit of its inhabitants. Acts of Alabama, 1824-5, p. 68.
On the 1st day of December, 1836, an agreement in writing
was entered into between the city and one Hitchcock, whereby
the former granted and leased to the latter, his executors and
assigns, for the term of twenty years, the entire use, control,
management, rents, profits and issues of the "Mobile Citv

OCTOBER TERf, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Water Works," embracing the ground at Spring Hill, where
the fountain was situated, and the ground along which the
pipes passed from the fountain to the city, together with the
use of all the wooden and iron pipes and logs then laid down,
as well as all the advantages that had accrued to the city,
from, by or under the above act of December 20th, 1820, and
from all ordinances or resolutions passed by the city relating
to said city water works. This grant and lease were in consideration of the payment of certain sums, evidenced by Hitchcock's notes, and upon the condition, among others, that he
would, within the space of two years from the -date of the
agreement, "put the said water work* in good and sufficient
repair, so as to continue during the time hereby graited, and
will also keep up the said water works in good order as th-ey
now are until they shall be so placed in good order and repair,
so that the city of Mobile, and the inhabitants thereof, may
at all times be supplied with such quantity of good, wholesome
water as may be procured through the said aqueduct," such
water works to be surrendered to the city in good order and
condition at the end of the twenty years, Hitchcock being paid
what they actually cost him during that time. That contract
also provided that Hitchcock, his executors, administrators
and assigns, should, during said term of twenty years, "have
the exclusive privilege of furnishing to the citizens and inhabitants of the city of Mobile waterfrom the aqueduct or water
works aforesatd,at a *um or price which shall at no time be
less" than certain named rates, and that he shall have "the
power and authority to make such alterations and repairs
upon the said works, and to erect such new work, and in such
manner as he may deem necessary and proper, and may at
will ,change the fountain head, and conduct the water from
any part of Three-Mile Creek, so called, so that the same be
good and wholesome, he, the said Henry Hitchcock, procuring,
at his cost, the necessary ground for the reservoir or reservoirs
and that through which the pipes shall pass. And the said
mayor and aldermen of 'Mobile, for themselves and 'their successors in office, hereby further covenant and agree, that they
will, at the expiration of-the said term of twenty years, (he, the

STEIN v. BIENVILLE WATER SUPPLY CO.
Opinion of the Court.

said Henry Hitchcock, his executors, administrators or assigns,
delivering up the said 'water works' and appurtenances in
good order and repair,) pfy to him or them the actual cost and
expenses which he or they shall have laid out and expended,
and which may be put upon the said works by him or them,
or any of them, either by reason of repairs, or addition to the
present works, as by alterations or improvements made upon
the said water works during the said term of twenty years
above stated."
Subsequently, December 25th, 1837, an act was passed
incorporating the Mobile Aqueduct Company, to continue
until December 1st, 1856, and until it should have been "pur
chased out" by the city of Mobile, during which period it was
to have and- enjoy all the rights, privileges and immunities
conferred by the above act of December 20th, 1820, except as
modified by the act of December 25th, 1837, the former act
being revived and declared to be in force during the continuance of the latter one. The 5th section of the act of December 25th, 1837, recognized and confirmed the contract -between
the city and Hitchcock, and provided that upon its assignment
to the new company, (which he was authorized to make,) the
same was to enure to its benefit, and should be subject to all
the covenants therein contained to be performe.by Hitchcock., That act further provided that the new company
"shall be permitted the use of the streets in the city of
Mobile, free of charge, for the purpose of laying down pipes
for the conveyance of the water;" also, "that so soon after
the first day of December, 1856, as the said corporation of
Mobile shall pay to the said company, the cost of the said
work, in conformity with their contradt, before referred to,
with the said Henry Hitchcock, then this act shall cease to
operate and not before Provwded, That the said company
shall have power o collect its debts and wind up its affairs."
Acts of Alabama, 1837, p. 76.
Shortly after the passage of the act of December 25th, 1837,
the water works property again passed into the possession of
the city of Mobile, and the building of the system contemplated by that act was abandoned.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

On the 26th day of December, 1840, the city of Mobile and
Albert Stein, the testator of the plaintiff, entered into a
written agreement, whereby the city granted to him, his
heirs, executors, administrators and assigns, the "sole privilege of supplying the city of Mobile with water from the
T'ree-Xile Creek for twenty years from the date of this
agreement, as ' vel] as all the advaitages and benefits which
accrue to the said mayor, aldermen and common council
from, by or under an act of the legislature of the State of
Alabama entitled an act to incorporate an aqueduct company
in the city of Mobile, passed December 20th, 1820, and all
ordinances and. resolutions passed by the said mayor and
aldermen of the city of Mobile, under and by virtue of the
said act, or by the act of incorporation of the said city of
Mobile, and the several acts amendatory thereto, which in
any way or manner relate to the said ' City Water Works,' or
the right to supply said city with water, as well as all the
benefits and advantages which accrue to the said mayor,
aldermen and common council, or the mayor and aldermen
of the city of Mobile, from, by or under an act of the legislature of the State of Alabama, entitled an act to incorporate
the Mobile Aqueduct Company, passed December 25th, 1837,
to have and to hold the above-mentioned and describedpvzleges together with all and singular the appurtenances unto
the same belonging, or in anywise appertaining, unto'the said
Albert Stein, his executors, administrators- and assigns, from
the date hereof, for during and until the full end and term of
twenty years thence next ensuing."
The city covenanted and agreed that it would, at the expiration of the said term, (Stein delivering up the water works and
appurtenances in good order and condition,) pay him, his executors, administrators or assigns, their actual .value, as deter
mined by six arbitrators, three to be chosen by each side,
whose award should be binding; but in case of disagreement,
the value to be left to the determination of the water committee of Philadelphia, and their decision, communicated to the
,city, to be conclusive; and the amount so awarded to be paid
on the day it should be reported, when the water works and

STEIN v. BIENVILLE WATER SUPPLY CO.
Opinion of the Court.

all appurtenances should be delivered over to the corporation
of Mobile. The city also covenanted that Stein, his executors,
administrators and assigns, "shall have quiet possession of the
said works, during their erection and after they shall be completed, for the term of twenty years, and for any further time,
until the said parties of the first part [the city authorities], or
their successors in office, shall redeem the said works from the
said party of the second part [Stein], his heirs, executors,
administrators or assigns, according to the aforesaid stipulation ," that Stein, his executors, administrators and assign,
he and they performing the stipulations of the contract up,
their part to be performed- "shall and may retaifi quiet
possession of the said water works for the said term of
twenty years without let, molestation or hindrance of the said
mayor, alderman and common council, or their successors m
office, or any person or persons claiming by, through or under
them, and that the said Stein, his executors, administrators_
and assigns, shall, during the said term of twenty years, or
any further time, until said works are redeemed as above
stipulated, have the exclusive privilege of supplying to the
citizens and inhabitants of the city of Mobile water from the
water works aforesaid,' at the sum or price which shall at no
time exceed" certain named rates to be paid by the person
receiving the water. This contract specified the maximum
rates to be charged to persons receiving water. Stein, his
executors, administrators and. assigns were given power to collect and receive these rates, and "power and authority to conduct the water from any part of the 'Three-.Mlile Creek,'
so-called, so that the same may be good and wholesome, he,
the said Albert Stein, his executors, administrators or assigns,
procuring at his or"their expense the necessary ground for the
reservoir, engine and pump-house, and that through which
the pipes shall pass."
By an act of the legislature, approved January 7th, 1841, entitled "An act for the promotion of the health and convenience
of the city of Mobile by the introduction of a supply of wholesome water into said city, to be used for domestic purposes
and the extinguishment of fires," this last agreement was fully

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

confirmed, and all the rights, powers, privileges and immuni-.
ties granted by the acts of December 20th, 1820, and December
25th, 1837, not inconsistent with the terms of such agreement,
were granted and confirmed to Stein and his assigns, with full
authority to use such of the public roads of the county "as
may be in the direct route between the reservoir and fountain
head of the water works hereby to be erected, and the
city of Mobile, for the purpose of laying the pipes for conducting the water into the city, free from all charge or claim
for damage therefor," and with power to dispose of or mortgage any of said privileges, rights and immunities.
The bill alleges, and the demurrer admits, that Stein, in
good faith, set about, and out of his own private fortune and
by borrowing money from others, raised the means to build,
and-did construct, at an outlay and expense of more than two
hundred thousand dollars, a system of public water works to
supply said city of Mobile and the inhabitants thereof with
water, in strict conformity to and compliance with the -aforesaid contract and agreement, that he and his executor have
ever since maintained and kept the same in good order and
condition and in all respects observed the aforesaid contract
and agreement, that the said city of Mobile has not redeemed
.or purchased, or offered to redeem or purchase, said water
works property, as by said contract it agreed to do, although
said period of twenty years has long since expired, that in
the year 1879 the legislature of the State of Alabama repealed
the charter of the city of Mobile and immediately thereafter,
and at the same session of the legislature, passed an act incorporating the municipal corporation known as the "Port of
Mobile," embracing, however, substantially the same territory
and people and public property as that included in the city of
Mobile, and that said municipal corporation called the "Port
of Mobile" succeeded to all the rights, powers and authority
possessed:by the said city of Mobile, and said port of Mobile
recognized the validity; efficacy and continuance of the above
contract of December 26th, 1840.
The Bienville Water -Supply-Company was incorporated by
an act approved February 19th, 1883, which was amended by

STEIN v. BIENVILLE WATER SUPPLY CO.
Opinion of the Court.

an act approved February 14th, 1885.

The preamble recites

that "whereas the inhabitants of the municipality known as
the Port of Mobile, and the inhabitants of the village of
Whistler, in the county of Mobile, are not provided with an
adequate supply of water for domestic and municipal purposes,
and whereas. it is essential to the public health of the,citizens of
those towns, and to the protection of their property and the
public property therein, against conflagration, that an abundant
supply of water should be introduced and furnished to said
citizens, and whereas, a company of citizens of said county
propose to undertake the duty of furnishing such supply to
said towns for the public use and benefit." By the 6th section
of the act that company was charged with the duty of introducing into the Port of Mobile and the village of Whistler, in
Mobile County, such supply of pure water as the domestic,
sanitary and municipal wants thereof might require, and for
this purpose it was authorized to construct all needed canals
and ditches, and, by pipes and aqueducts as might be found
best suited for the purpose, to carry into said towns, by such
lines or route as might be found best, such wager as was
needed, from any point in that county within twenty miles of
the port or city of Mobile.
The same act provides, among other things "§ 9. That the
said corporation hereby created is hereby invested with all the
rights and powers, which by law or contract was vested in
the late municipal corporation, known as 'the mayor, aldermen and common council of the city of Mobile,' by redemption, purchase or otherwise, to acquire from any and all other
persons, corporations or associations whatever, any and all
property and rights by such person or persons, corporations or
associations, held under any former contract or law whatever
for the introduction and supply of water into the city of
Mobile, orthe inhabitants thereof, and for such purpose said
Bienville Water Supply Company shall be held and taken to
be the -assignee of the said 'mayor, aldermen and common
council of the city of Mobile,' and may proceed to assert said
rights, and exercise said powers thus assigned, the same as
could have'been done by the municipal corporation aforesaid,

OCTOBER TERNI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

and for this purpose the commissioners of Mobile, appointed
under and by virtue of ' An act to vacate and annul the
charter and dissolve the corporation of the city of Mobile,'
approved February 11th, 1879, are hereby authorized, on the
demand of said corporation, to release to said corporation all
the rights of said late city of Mobile in and to such right of
redemption, purchase or other acquisitions of such property or
rights.
"§ 10. That said Bienville Water Supply Company be, and
is hereby, authorized to acquire by contract with any person or
persons, corporation, company or association, claiming any right
to-supply tle port or city of Mobile .or the inhabitants thereof
with water, such right or rights as he or they may have in
the premises, and the property owned and used in connection
therewith, and pay therefor such amount of money as may be
'agreed upon, or such amount as may be agreed upon in stock
of the said supply company, and in case of failure by contract
to obtain such right and property, then said corporation hereby
created, may proceed as directed by law, for the condemnation
and the taking of private property for public use, to obtain
the same for the purpose of the public use and benefit herein
declared of furnislling the port of Mobile and the village of
Whistler, andthe inhabitants thereof, with an adequate supply of water for domestic, sanitary and municipal purposes.
"§ 11. That said corporation shall have and enjoy the exclu_sire right of conducting and bringing water from any point,
other than Three-Mile Creek in the county spf Mobile, for the
supply of said port.of -Mobile and village of Whistler, for the
period of twenty years from the time when said water shall
have been brought within the limits of the port of Mobile,
and be ready for distribution and supply to the inhabitants
of the port of Mobile, and the houses and dwellings within
the limits of said port. And till the municipal authorities of
said port and village, ifso by law authorized, shall purchase
the water works and property of said corporation as hereinafter provided, but said corporation within four years from
the-passage of this act, must begin its works, and within six
years from the date of the passage of this act, must cause

STEIN v. BIENVILLE WATER SUPPLY CO.
Opinion bf the Court.

water to be conducted into the port of Mobile from some
stream, point or place as hereinbefore named, and if and when
any existing claim to conduct water into Mobile from ThreeMile Creek, or any other point without the limits of said port,
has been obtained by this c6rporation, then said corporation
shall have the exclusive right to supply said Port and village
and the inhabitants thereof with water for the period and the
term aforesaid. But nothing in this act shall be construed to
prohibit the organization hereafter of any company for the purpose of supplying the city of Mobile or any other place witk
water which does not interfere with the property rights or
rights of obtaining water pertaining to this company
The plaintiff, alleging in his bill that the Bienville Water
Supply Company were engaged in laying down pipes and
mains for the avowed purpose of conducting water into Mobile
to supply that city and its inhabitants, prays that the defendant may be enjoined from laying pipes in, along or through
the streets and alleys of the city for'sucha purpose, and that
it be perpetually enjdined from interfering with the exclusive
right and privilege which the plaintiff, representing the estate
of Albert Stein, claims of supplying Mobile and its inhabitants
with water under the contract of Decembe 26th, 1840, until
that city shall redeem and purchase, at theig actual value, the
water works constructed and maintained by the testator under
that contract.
The present case is not controlled by -Yew Orleans Water
Works Company v. Rivers, 115 U. S. 674, and St. Tammany
Wfater Works v. New Orleans Water Works, 120 U. S. 64, to
which counsel have referred The first case involved the
validity and effect of a contract between the city of New
Orleans .and the New Orleans Water Company, whereby the
former, acting under legislative authority, granted to --the latter, for the term of fifty years;. the exclushe privilege of supplying that city and its iiihabitants "with water from the
Mississippi, or any other stream or mver, by mains or conduits,
and for erecting and constructing any necessary works or
engines or machines for that purpose." Subsequently, under
the sanction of a new- state -constitution, adopted after that

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

contract was made, the city .passed an ordinance allowing
Rivers or the lessee of the St. Charles Hotel, the right of way
and privilege to lay a water pipe from the Mississippi River
at any point opposite the head of Common or Gravier streets,
through either of those streets, to convey water to that hotel.
This court held the grant to Rivers to be inconsistent with
the previous one to the Water Works Company, and that the
provision-in the new constitution of Louisiana and the ordinance under which Rivers proceeded, impaired the obligation
of the city's contract with the Water Works Company. It
was said "The right to dig up and use the streets and alleys
of New Orleans for the purpose of placing pipes and mains to
supply the city and its inhabitants with water is a franchise
belonging to the State, which she could grant to such persons
or corporations, and upon such terms, as she deemed best for
the public interests. And as the object to be attained was a
public one, for which the State could make provision by legislative enactment, the grant of the franchise could be accompanied with such exclusive privileges to the grantee, in respect
of the subject. of the grant, as in the judgment of the legislative department would best proihote the public health and the
public comfort, or the protection of public and private property Such was the nature ofthe plaintiff's grant, which, not
being at the time prohibited by the constitution of the State,
was a contract, the obligation of which cannot be impaired by
subsequent legislation, or by a change in her organic law,"
the constitutional prohibition upon state laws impairing the
obligation of contracts not, however, restricting "the power
of the State to protect the public health, the public morals or
the public safety, as the one or the other may be involved .in
the execution of such contract," because "rights and privileges
arising from contracts with-a State are subject to regulations
for the protection of the public health, the public morals and
the public safety, in the same sense as are all contracts and all
property, whether owned by natural persons or corporations."
In St. Tammany Vater Works v New OrleansWater Works,
we maintained the contract which the New Orleans Water
Works Company had with the city against another corpora-

STEIN v. BIENVILLE WATER SUPPLY CO.
Opinion of the Court.

tion that claimed the right, under the general laws of Louisiana -

and was about to take active steps in its enforcement

-

of bringing water into New Orleans by means of pipes, laid in
the streets of that city parallel with those constructed by the
New Orleans Water Works Company, to convey water from
Bogue Falaya iRiver, in the parish of St. Tammany As the
exclusive right of the New Orleans Water Works Company
to supply the city of New Orleans and its inhabitants with
water was not restricted to water drawn from the Mississippi,
but embraced water from "any other stream or river," the
case was held to be controlled by the decision in New Orleans
Water Wforks Comvany v I-zvers.
The present case is materially different. The exclusive right
acquired by Stein, under his contract of 1840, with the city of
Mobile, and confirmed by the act of January 7, 1841, of supplying that city and its people with water, by means of a
system of public works, did not, in terms or by necessary im-lication, embrace all streams, or rivers or bodies of water,
from which he could supply water for public use in Mobile.
While the obtaining of water for that city was undoubtedly
'contemplated by the legislature when it passed the first act,
that of 1820, the thing done to that end was to incorporate
-certain persons proposing to bring water to the city from
Three-Mile (Ireek or Bayou Chatogue. And this idea was
apparent in the agreement of 1836 with Hitchcock. So, by
the agreement with Stein, he, and his heirs, executors,.admin.istrators and assigns, -acquired the "sole privilege of supplyingthe city of M obile with waterfrom the Three-Jfile Creek" for
a designated term of years, as well as after the expiration -of
that term and until he or they should receive from the city
the actual value of 'his ,water works, determined in the mode
prescribed by the contract. The specific powerpnd authority
given to Stein and his executors, administrators and assigns,
by the city and the State, was "to conduct the water from
any part of the Three-Mile Creek, so called, so that the same
be good and wholesome." Why the parties, in making their
agreement, specified a particular stream from which - Stein was
to conduct water into the city of Mobile for public use does

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

not distinctly appear. And it is not necessary to inquire, for
tne question before us depends upon the fair and reasonable
interpretation of the agreement actually made. The court
has no right to enlarge it, even if it believed that the parties
themselves would have done so, if the matter had, at the time
the agreement was signed, been called to their attention. The
exclusive privilege granted, and the power and authority conferred in connection therewith, were to conduct water into the
city from Three-Mile Creek. The parties, by the agreement,
fixed upon that stream as the source of the water to be
brought into the city; and the exclusive privilege granted to
Stein had reference only to that stream.
The case then is this The State incorporated the Bienville
Water Supply Company, and conferred upon it the exclusive
right, for a term of years, to supply the port of Mobile with
water conducted and broughtfron any other point tha ThreeMile Creek. The plaintiff seeks a perpetual injunction against
the exercise of that right, and in support of his claim of an
exclusive privilege of supplying water for Mobile and its people, from whatever source drawn, exhibits the contract which
granted to Stein the exclusive right to supply that city and
people with water brought from Three-Mile Creek for a fixed
term of years, and until his works were redeemed by the city
The exercise by the defendant of the exclusive right granted
to it will not interfere with the only exclusive privilege acquired by the plaintiff under the contract of 1840, confirmed
by legislative enactment in 1841, namely, to conduct water for
the use of Mobile and its people from Three-Mile Creek. If
the contract under which the plaintiff claims was doubtful in
its meaning, the result would not be different, for, while it is
the duty of the courts not to defeat the intentioir of parties to
a contract by a strained interpretation of the words employed
by them, it is a settled rule of construction, that, "in grants
by the public nothing passes by implication," and, "if, on a
fair reading of the instrument, reasonable doubts arise as to
the proper interpretation to be given to it, those doubts are to
be solved in favor of the State, and where it is susceptible of
two meanings, the one restricting and the other extending the

PARKER v. ORMSBY
Syllabus.

powers of the corporation, that construction is to be adopted
which works the least harm to the State." The Binghamton
Brzdge, 3 Wall. 51, 75. Guided by this rule, in respect to
which there is no difference of opinion in the courts of this
country, we are forbidden to hold that a grant, under legislative authority, of an exclusive privilege, for a term of years,
of supplying a municipal corporation and its people with
water drawn by means of a system of water works from a
particular stream or river, prevents the State from granting to
other persons the privilege of supplying, during the same
period, the same corporation and people with water drawn in
like manner from a different stream or river.
The relief asked was, in effect, an injunction perpetully
restraining the defendant from supplying the port and people
of Mobile with water drawn from rivers or streams other than
Three-Mile Creek. That was the object of the suit, and the
decree below must be restricted to a denial simply of that
relief. Thus restricted, and without deciding any other question, the decree dismissing the bill.must be
.Afirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY

did not participate in the decision of

this case.

PARKER v: ORMSBY
AtPPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 1658. Submitted April 27, 1891.-Decided Ma3

, _91.

In a suit by the assignee of a promissory note payable to the order of the
payee, where the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court depends upon the citizenship of the parties, it must appear affirmatively in the record that the
payee could have maintained the action on the same ground.
A party cannot, by proceedings in the Circuit Court, waive a question of
the jurisdiction of that court, so as to prevent its being raised and
passed upon here.
VOL. CXLI-6

