MARSHALL v. HOLMKES.
Syllabus.

inquiry arising on this petition did not present itself for definitive disposition, and we do not feel justified under the circumstances in declining to afford the opportunity for its full
discussion, as now specifically pressed upon our attention.
While, therefore, this branch of our jurisdiction should be
exercised sparingly and with great caution, we are of opinion
that the grounds of this application are sufficient to call for
Let te wmeof certorart sue as prayed.
our interposition.

MfA.RSHALL v. HOLMES.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND CIRCUIT OF THE
STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 28. Argued April 6, 7, 1891. -Decided

November 9, 1891.

Numerous judgments at law were rendered in the state court in favor of
the same party, against the same defendant, in each case, the judgment
was for less than five hundred dollars, but the aggregate of all the judgments was over three thousand dollars. After the close of the term, the
defendant against whom the judgments were rendered, filed a petition in
the same court for the annulment of the judgments upon the ground
that, without negligence, laches or other fa-ilt upon the part of the petitioner, they had been fraudulently obtained. Subsequently the petitioner
filed a proper petition and bond for the removal of the case into the Circuit Court of the United States. The application was refused and the
state court proceeded to final judgment. Held,
(1) Upon the filing of a proper petition and bond for the removal of a
cause pending in a state court, such cause, if removable under the
act of Congress, is, in law, removed so as to be docketed in the
Circuit Court of the United States, notwithstanding the state
court may refuse to recognize the riaht of removal,
(2) As all the judgments in law were held in tho same right and against
the same parties, and as their validity depended upon the same
facts, the defendant therein, in order to avoid a multipjicity of
actions, and the vexation and costs arising from numerous executions and levies, was entitled to bring one suit for a final decree
determining the matter in dispute that-was common to all the parties; and as, under the rules.of equity, such a suit could be brought
in a court of the United States, the aggregate amount of all the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.
judgments sought to be annulled was the value of the matter in
dispute; consequently the cause was removable so far as the
amount involved was concerned;
(3) A Circuit Court of the United States in the exercise of its equ.v
powers, and where diverse citizenship gives jurisdiction over the
parties, may deprive a party of the benefit of a judgment fraudulently obtained by him in a state court, if the circumstances are
such as would authorize relief by a Federal court if the judgment
had been rendered by it and not by a state court, as a decree to
that effect does not operate upon the state court, but upon the
party.
(4) Where a suit in equity is, in its general nature, one -of which a Circuit Court of the United States may rightfully take cognizance,
upoF removal, it is not for a state court to disregard the right of
removal upon the ground simply that the averments of the petition
or bill in equity are insufficient or too vague to justify a court of
equity in granting the relief asked. It is for the Federal court,
after the cause is docketed there, and upon final hearing, to determine whether, under the allegations and proof, a case is made
which entitles the plaintiff to the relief asked.
.Barrow v. Hunton, 99 U..S. 80; Johnsoi v. Waters, 111 U. S. 640; and
Arrowsmith v. Gleason, 129 U. S. 86, distinguished from Nougue v. Clapp,
101 U. S. 551, and Graham v. Boston, Hartford & Ere Railroad, 118

U. S.161.

THE court stated the case as follows:
On the 20th day of April, 1885, the plaintiff in error, Mrs.
Sarah E. Marshall, a citizen of New York, filed in the Eighth
District Court for the Parish of Madison, Louisiana, a petition
for injunction, representing that David Mayer, one of the
defendants in error, had then recently obtained, in a suit in
that court, a judgment against her for the sum of $127.50,
that in pursuance of an agreement that judgment in one suit
should be decisive of other suits, in the same court, between
the same parties and relating to the same subject matter,
judgments had been entered against her, in his favor, in other
actions, twenty-three in number, for sums aggregating $3089.31.
Each judgment was for less than $500.
The petition alleges that all the judgments were obtained
on false testimony and forged documents, and that equity
and good conscience required that they be annulled and
*avoided for the following reasons

MARSHALL v. HOLMES.
Statement of the Case.

"' That your petitioner, as usufructuary of the plantation
Cabin Teele, in your said parish, employed one Elijah Boyd
as an agent on the said plantation to collect the rents and
ship the cotton received, that the said Boyd died in the year
1884, and that said Mayer, pretending to have a contract with
-said Boyd, by which your petitioner was bound to him as a
furnisher of supplies s solido with the several defendants
named in the suits hereinbefore mentioned, brought said suits
and made petitioner a party defendant thereto, that petitioner
answered in the several suits that said Boyd, if he made any
such contract as alleged, had no power, right or authority to
4o so, that a trial was had of the suit No. 607, and the said
Mayer introduced evidence of the existence of a letter from
.your petitioner to the said Boyd authorizing him, the said
Boyd, to make a contract by which her lien as lessor on the
crops produced by the several defendants and other tenants
-on said plantation should be waived in favor of the said
Mayer or of others as furnishers of supplies to said tenants,
that upon such evidence so offered, and of the existence of
which petitioner could not possibly be aware and of which she
had no knowledge until subsequent to the trial, judgment was
rendered against her in said suit and in the several other suits
mentioned. Your petitioner shows that the said Boyd, who
was an agent, with only a general power of administration,
had no authority to bind her or to waive her lien as lessor in,
order to procure supplies for the several defendants and other
tenants, and that the pretended letter authorizing him to
make such contract, if it ever had an existence, which petitioner denies, N-,c a false and forged document, not written:
and not signed by her, that your petitioner has never authorized the.said Boyd or any other person whatsoever to waive
her lien as lessor in favor of the said Mayer or any other
turnishar af s-ppies?--and has.ne.er writtei the-'pretendcd
letter or any other letter to the said Boyd or to any other
person whatsoever containing such authority, that, to the
contrary, as soon as she-was informed after the death of said
Boyd that he had made such pretended contract and other
contracts by which it was sought to bind her, she instructed

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

her agents and attorneys to take immediate steps to disavow
the authority of said Boyd to make such contracts, that the
testimony of said Mayer as to the existence of said pretended
letter is false and in pursuance of a conspiracy to defraud
petitioner, or that said pretended letter, if it ever had an
existence, is a false and forged document, that this testimony
and much more testimony necessary to establish the falsity of
said evidence upon which said judgments were obtained and
the forgery df said pretended letter to said Boyd was unknown
to petitioner at the time of the trial and could not have been
known to or anticipated by her, and has been discovered by
her since the rendition of said judgments in said suit and since
the lapse of the legal delays within which a motion could be
made for a new trial, and that there has been no laches on
her part in failing to show the falsity of such evidence and
the forgery of such pretended letter on the trial of the cause."
Such was the case made in the petition. The relief asked
was an. injunction against Mayer and the defendant in error,
Holmes, sheriff of the parish, restraining them from executing
the above judgments or any of them, that Mayer be cited to
answer the petitioner's demand, that the judgments be annulled and avoided as obtained upon false testimony and forged
documents, and that the petitioner have general and equitable
relief.
A writ of injunction was issued as prayed for, and upon
a supplemental petition, showing Mayer to be a non-resident
of Louisiana, a curato ad hoc was appointed to represent him.
Mayer appeared and filed exceptions and pleas of estoppel
and res adjudicata.
Subsequently, iune 5, 1885, Mrs. Marshall filed a petition,
accompanied by a proper bond, for the removal of her suit
into the Circuit Court of the United States, upon the grounds
that she was a citizen of New York, and the defendants respectively were citizens of Mississippi and Louisiana, that the
controversy was wholly between citizens of different States,
and that it could be fully tried and determined between them.
The court made an order refusing the application for removal.
The pleas were referred to the merits, and ordered to stand as

MARSHALL v. HOLMIES.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

an answer. Tayer answered, reiterating the allegations of
the pleas previously filed by him, excepting to the petition as
not disclosing any cause of action, denying each averment of
the petition not admitted in the pleas, and praying that the
plaintiff's demand be rejected.
Upon the trial of the case judgment was rendered, dissolving
the injunction, and authorizing Mayer to execute the judgments enjoined. Judgment was also rendered in his favor,
on the injunction bond, for ten per cent on the amounts
enjoined (special damages as attorney's fees) and for twenty
per cent on such amounts as general damages. An appeal by
the plaintiff to the Supreme Court of Louisiana was dismissed
for want of jurisdiction in that court to review the judgment.
It was held that the appeal should have gone to the proper
State Court of Appeals. 39 La. Ann. 313. Thereupon, an
appeal was prosecuted to the Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit of the State of Louisiana, where the original judgment,
after being amended by reducing the general damages to ten
per cent, was affirmed. From that judgment Mrs. Marshall
prosecuted the present writ of error.
.Ar A. Q Keasbey for plaintiff in error.

Mr TFheeler H

Peckham filed a brief for same.
Mr Charles H. Boatner for defendants in error.
.First. The amount involved was not sufficient to justify
the removal of the cause, and the Circuit Court properly denied it.
Complainant has, according- to the allegations of her bill,
twenty-three causes of action, but no one of them involves a
value of as much-as five hundred dollars.
The causes of actiom which she sets forth are not contradictory, aid, therefore, under the laws of Louisiana, may be
emulated or joined in the same suit, but for jurisdictional purposes each distinct cause of action must stand for itself. Thus,
while one may in the same suit assert the ownership oi ;
horse and also claim that defendant owes a sum of money
VOL. cx -38

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

the value of the horse cannot be added to the sum of money
to make either okiginal or appellate jurisdiction.
The supreme court of Louisiana very tersely says "Common sense and logic alike point to the rule that a cause not
appealable in amount to this court for the review of the judgment rendered therein cannot be made appealable here to
review the judgment rendered in action of nullity in the same
cause." Xarshall v. Holmes, 39 La. Ann. 313, 315. The same
principle applies in questions of removal.
Second. The removal should not have been allowed, because the complainant practically seeks to have the Federal
court review the judgment of the state court in causes which
were exclusively within the jurisdiction of the state court and
which that court has finally decided.
In Barrow v Hiunton, 99 U. S. 80, 85, the court says.
"The character of the cases themselves is always open to
examination for the purpose of determining whether, ratione
materue, the courts of the United States are incompetent to
take jurisdiction thereof."
An examination of the case under consideration shows that
David Mayer instituted twenty-three suits against as many
tenants on complainant's plantation. She was made a party
defendant in each case and judgment prayed against her for
the amount due by her codefendant. One of these cases was
selected as a test case and tried, the plaintiff introducing all
the evidence on which he relied to prove that Mrs. Marshall
had authorized her agent to make contracts with persons furnishing her tenants necessary supplies, by which she waived
in their favor her superior lien as lessor.
The state court has, therefore, in each of'these cases, considered Mrs. Marshall's denial of authority and decided against
her. She now seeks, by cumulating twenty-three distinct
demands in one suit, to have this court review the judgments
which lhtve been rendered against her. This cannot be done.
Bougue v Clapp, 101 U. S. 551, Graham v Boston, Hlartford
& Erza Railroad, 118 U. S. 161.
MR. JUSTICE

HARLAN,

opinion of the court.

after stating the case, delivered the

MARS1ALL v. HOLIES.

,595

Opmion of the Court.

After the filing of the petition for removal, accompanied
by a sufficient bond, and alleging that the controversy was
wholly between citizens of different States, the state court
was without authority to proceed further if the suit, in its
nature, is one of which the Circuit Court of the United States
could rightfully take jurisdiction. If,. under the act of Congress, the cause was removable, then, upon the filing of the
above petition and bond, it was in law removed so as to be
docketed in that court, notwithstanding the order of the state
court refusing to recognize the right of removal. Steamshp,Co. v Tugman, 106 U. S. 118, 122, St. Paul & Chtcago
Railway v IfcLean, 108 U S. 212, 216, Stone v South Carolina, 117 IT. S. 430, Crehore v Oho & -Ofiss. Railway, 131
U. S. 240.
Is the right of removal affected by the fact that no one
of the judgments against the plaintiff m error exceecied the
amount- five hundred dollars exclusive of costs- litnited,
by the act of 1875, for the jurisdiction, whether origifial or
upon removal, of a Circuit Court of the United States, in
suits between citizens of different States ? We think not.
The judgments aggregate more than three thousand dollars.
They are all held by Mayer, and are all against Mrs. Marshall. Their validity depends upon the same facts. If she is
entitled to relief against oAe of the judgments, she is entitled.
to relief against all of tnem. The cases in which "they were
rendered werein effect, tried as one case, so far as she and
Mayer were zomerned, for the parties stipulated that the
result in eaph6ne not tried should depend upon the result in
the one tVied. As all the cases not tried went to judgment
in accora nce with the result in the one tried, as the property
of Mrs. M arshall was liable to be taken in execution on all
the judgments; as the judgments were held in the same
right, and as their validity depended upon the same facts,
she was entitled, in order to avoid a multiplicity of actions,
and to protect herself against the vexation and cost that
would come from numerous executions and levies, to bring
one suit for a decree finally determining the matter in dispute
in all the cases. And as, under the rules of -equity obtaining

OCTOBER TERMI, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

in the courts of the United States, such a suit could be
brought, the aggregate amount of all the judgments against
which she sought protection, upon grounds common to all the
actions, is to be deemed, under the act of Congress, the value
of the matter here in dispute.
According to the averments of the original petition for mjunction filed in the state court - which averments must be
taken to be true in determining the removability of the suit
- the judgments m question would not have been rendered
agamst Mrs. Marshall but for the use in evidence of the letter
alleged to be forged. The case evidently intended to be presented by the petition is one where, without negligence,
laches or other fault upon the part of petitioner, Mayer has
fraudulently obtained judgments which he seeks, against conscience, to enforce by execution. While, as a general rule, a
defence cannot be set up in equity which has been fully and
fairly tried at law, and although, in view of the large powers
now exercised by courts of law over their judgments, a court
of the United States, sitting in equity, will not assume to
control such judgments for the purpose simply of giving a
new trial, it is the settled doctrine that "any fact which
clearly proves it to be against conscience to execute a judgment, and of which the injured party could not have availed
himself in a court of law, or of which he might have availed
himself at law, but was prevented by fraud or accident, unmixed with any fault or negligence in himself or his agents,
will justify an application to a court of chancery" iyarmne
Ins. 0o. v Hodgson, 1 Cranch, 332, 336, Hendrzcecsoz v
Hinckley, 17 How 443,. 445, Crinm v Handley, 94 U. S. 652,
653, Metcayf v Williams, 104 U. S. 93, 96, Embry v Palmer,
107 U S. 3, 11, Jfnos County v Harshman, 133 U. S. 152,
154, 2 Story's Eq. Jur. §§ 887, 1574, Floyd v Jayne, 6
Johns. Ch. 479, 482. See also Undted States v Throclemorton,
98 U. S. 61, 65.
But it is contended that it was not competent for the Circuit
Court of the United States, by any form of decree, to deprive
Mayer of the benefit of the judgments at law, and that Mrs.
Marshall could obtain the relief asked only in the court in

IARSHALL v. HOLMVrES.
Opinion of the Court.

which the judgments at law were rendered. Ts it true that a
Circuit Court of the United States, in the exercise of its equity
powers, and where diverse citizenship gives jurisdiction over
the parties, may not, in any case, deprive a party of the benefit
of a judgment fraudulently obtained by him in a state court,
the circumstances being such as would, authorize relief by the
Federal c'ourt, if the judgment had been rendered by it and
not by a state court 9
A leading case upon this subject 'is Barrow v. HYunn, 99
U. S. 80, 82, 83, 85. That was a suit in one of the courts of
Louisiana to annul a judgment rendered in a court of that
State, upon the ground that it was founded upon a default
taken, without lawful service of the petition and a citation,
and because, prior.to the judgment, the party seeking to have
it set aside had been adjudged a bankrupt. The case was removed to the Circuit Court of the United States, and was subsequently remanded to the state court. This court held that
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court depended upon the question
whether the action to annul the judgment was or was not in
its nature a separate suit, or only a supplementary proceeding
so connected with the original suit as to form an incident to
it, and to be substantially a continuation of it. It said. "If
the proceeding is *merely tantamount to the common-law
practice of moving to set aside a judgment for irregularity,
or to a writ of error, or to a bill of review or an appeal, it
would belong to the latter category, and the United States
courts could not properly entertain jurisdiction of the case.
Otherwise, the Circuit Courts of the United States would
becomne invested with power to control the proceedings in the
state courts, or would have appellate jurisdiction over them
in all cases where the parties are citizens of different States.
Such a result would be totally inadmissible. On the other
hand, if the proceedings are tantamount to a bill in equity to
set aside a decree for fraud in the obtaining thereof, then they
constitute an original and independent proceeding, and according to the doctrine laid dwn in Gaines v Fuentes, 92 U.S.
10, the case might be within the cognizance of the Federal
courts. The distinction between the two classes of cases may

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.

Opinion of the Court.

be somewhat nice, but it may be affirmed to exist. In the one
class, there would'be a mere revision of errors and irregularities, or of the legality and correctness of the judgments and
decrees of the state courts, and in the other class, the investigation of a new case, arising upon new facts, although having
relation to the validity of an actual judgment or decree, or of
the party's right to claim any benefit by reason thereof."
Referring to the provisions of the Louisiana Code of Practice authorizing an action to annul a judgment obtained
through fraud, bribery, forgery of documents, etc., the court
said that it was not disposed to allow the fact that, by the
local law, an action of nullity could only be brought in the
court rendering the judgment, or in the court to which the
judgment was taken by appeal, to operate so far as to make it
an invariable criterion of the want of jurisdiction in the courts
of the United States. "If," the court said, "the state legislatures could, by investing certain courts with exclusive jurisdiction over certain subjects, deprive the Federal courts of all
jurisdiction, they might seriously interfere with the right of
the citizen to resort to those courts. The character of the cases
themselves is always open to examination for the purpose of
determining whether, ratftone materur, the courts of the United
States are incompetent to take jurisdiction thereof. State
rules on the subject cannot deprive them of it." As that
proceeding was equivalent in common-law practice to a motion
to set aside the judgment for irregularity, or to a writ of error
coram vobis, and as the cause of.nullity related to form only,
the case was held not to be cognizable in the courts of the
United States.
The rules laid down in Barrow v )Ttnton, were applied in
Johnson v Waters, 111 U. S. 640, 667, and Arrowsmith v
Gleason, 129 U. S.86, 101.

In Johnson v Waters, this court

upheld the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United
States, by a decree in an original suit, to deprive parties of the
benefit of certain fraudulent sales made under the-orders of a
Probate Court of Louisiana, which court, by the law of that
State, had exclusive jurisdiction of the subject matter of the
proceedings out of which the sales arose. After observing

MARSHALL v. HOLMES.
Opinion of the Court.

that the Court of Chancery is always open to hear complaints
against fraud, whether committed 2npats or in or by means of
judicial proceedings, the court said "In such cases, the court
does not act as a court of review, nor does it inquire into any
irregularities or errors of proceeding in another court, but it
will scrutinize the conduct of the parties, and, if it finds that
they have been guilty of fraud in obtaining a judgment or
decree, it will deprive them of the benefit of it, and of any inequitable advantage which they haVe derived under it." In
Arrowsmiti v Gleason, the grounds of the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court of the United States to entertain an original suit
- the parties being citizens of different States -to set aside a
sale of lands fraudulently made by the guardian of an infant,
under authority derived from a Probate Court, are thus stated.
"These principles control the present case, which, although
involving rights arising under judicial proceedings in another
jurisdiction, is an original, independent suit for equitable relief
between the parties, such relief being grounded upon a new
state of facts, disclosing not only imposition upon a court of
justice in procuring from it authority to sell an infant's lands
when there was no necessity therefor, but actual fraud in the
exercise, from time to time, of the authority so obtained. As
the case is within the equity jurisdiction of the Circuit Court,
as defined by the Constitution and laws of the United States,
that court may, by its decree, lay hold of the parties, and
compel them to do what according to the principles of equity
they ought to do, thereby securing and establishing the rights
of which the plaintiff is alleged to have been deprived .by
fraud and collusion."
These authorities would seem to place beyond question the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court to take cognizance of the
present suit, which is none the less an original, independent
suit, because it relates to judgments obtained in the court of
another jurisdiction. While it cannot require the state courtitself to set aside or vacate the judgments in question, it may,
as between the parties before it, if the facts justify such relief, adjudge that Mayer shall not enjoy the inequitable adiantage obtained.by his judgments. A decree, to that effect

OCTOBER TERI, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

would operate directly upon him, and would not contravene
that provision 6f the statut -prohibiting a court of the United
States from granting a writ of injunction to stay proceedings
in a state court: It would simply take from him the benefit
of judgments obtained by fraud.
It was contended at the bar that the cases of Nougue v
Clapp, 101 U. S. 551, and grahan v Boston, Rarford & Erie
Railroad,118 U. S. 161, 177, announce a different rule. We
do not understand those cases to proceed upon any ground
inconsistent with the principles announced in the cases above
cited. It is true that in iNougue v Clapp the Circuit Court
of the United States was asked to set aside a decree of a state
court, as well as a sale had under it, upon the ground that
the decree was obtained and the sale conducted pursuant to
a fraudulent conspiracy, to which the person obtaining the
decree, and who became the purchaser at the sale, was a party
Here the resemblance between that case and the one .before
us ends, for in _Nougue v Clapp it did not appear, nor was it
alleged, that the facts constituting the fraud were not, before
the rendition of the decree, within the knowledge of the party
seeking its annulment, or could not have been discovered in
time to bring them m some appropriate mode to the attention
of the court while the decree was within its control. For
aught that appears, that suit was brought simply to obtain a
rehearing in the Circuit Court of the United States, sitting in
equity, of issues that were, or, by proper diligence, could have
.been, fully determined in the suit at law in the state court.
The relief there asked could not have been granted consistently with the rule that equity will not interfere with a judg-ment at law, even where the party has an equitable defence,
if he could, by the exercise of diligence, have availed himself
of that defence in the action at law to which he was a party
This requirement of diligence is, as it ought to be, enforced
with strictness.
The case of Graham v Boston, Hartford & Erie Railroad
does not differ in principle from Nougue v Clapp.
The case before us is unlike the tw.o last cited. While the
court, upon final hearing, would not permit Mrs. Marshall,

MARSHALL v. HOLMES.
Opinion of the Court.

being a party to the actions at law, to plead ignorance of the
evidence introduced at the trial, it might be that -relief could
be granted by reason of the fact, distinctly alleged, that some
of the necessary proof establishing the forgery of the letter
was discovered after the judgments at law were rendered, and
after the legal delays within whichnew trials could have been
obtained, and could not have been discovered by her sooner.
It was not, however, for the state court to disregard the right
of removal upon the ground simply that the averments of the
petition were insufficient or too vague to justify a court of
equity in granting the relief asked. The suit being, in its
general nature, one of which the Circuit Court of the United
States could rightfully take cognizance, it was for that court,
after the cause was docketed there, and upon final hearing,
to determine whether, under the allegations and proof, a case
was made which, according to the established principles of
equity, entitled Mrs. Marshall to protection against the judgments alleged to have been fraudulently obtained.
For the reasons stated, we are of opinion that this suit was
removable from the state court, and that the court below
should have reversed the judgment of the Eighth District Court
in and for the Parish of Madison, and remanded the cause to
the latter court with direction to set aside all orders made after
the filing of the petition and bond for the removal of the suit
into the Circuit Court of the United States, and to proceed no
further in it.
The udgment ss reversed, and the cause remanded for such
proceedings as are consistent with this omnon.,

