OLCOTT v. HEADRICK.
Opinion of the Court.

OLCOTT v. HEADRICK.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
No. 77. Argued and submitted November 5, 1891.

-

Decided November 16, 1891.

A decree of foreclosure and sale, made by a Circuit Court, on a railroad
mortgage, provided that the purchaser should pay off all claims incurred
by the receiver, and that all such claims should be barred unless presented
within six mouths after the confirmation of the sale. On the sale the
property was bought by the appellants. The decree confirming the sale
provided that a deed should be given, and the purchasers should take the
property, and the deed should recite that they took it, subject to all claims
incurred by the receiver. After the six months had expired, the appellee
filed a petition to recover damages for an injury sustained by him, as a
passenger on the road, through the negligence of the employ~s of the
receiver. The expiration of the six months was set up as a bar to the
claim. It did not appear that the purchasers objected to the terms of
the decree of confirmation, or appealed to this court from that decree.
Held, that the Circuit Court had discretion to abrogate the six months'
limitation, and to decree that the purchasers should pay the claim, as the
receiver had been discharged.

IN

EQUITY.

Xr
brief.

The case is stated in the opinion.

William Xt. Baxter for appellants submitted on his

[r Henry H. Ingersoll for appellee.
Ma.

JUSTICE BLATOHFORD

delivered the opinionrof the court.
N

A bill in equity was filed in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Tennessee, by the Central
Trust Company of New York against the East Tennessee, Vir
Pinia and Georgia Railroad Company, the Tennessee State
Line Railroad Company and one Thomas, to foreclose a mort
gage given June 15, 1881, by the first named railroad company
to the Trust Company, on its property situated in Tennessee,
Georgia, Alabama and Mississippi. On the 6th of January,
1885, one Fink was appointed receiver in the cause, and placed

OCTOBER TEI'f, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

in possession of the whole of the property of the railroad
company

On the 18th of March, 1886, a decree of foreclosure and sale
was entered. That decree contained the following provisions:
- And the purchaser or purchasers of said property at said sale
shall, as a part of the consideration of the purchase and in
addition to the sum bid, take the said property upon the
express condition that he or they will pay off, satisfy and discharge any and all claims now pending and undetermined in
either of said courts, accruing prior to the appointment of the
receiver herein or during the receivership, which may be
allowed and adjudged by this court as prior in right to said
respective mortgages, together with such interest as may be
allowed, except as to mortgages prior to said mortgages foreclosed in this suit, and subject to which said property shall be
sold, and also upon the further express conditions that he or
they will pay off, satisfy and discharge all debts, claims and
demands, of whatsoever nature, incurred or which may hereafter be incurred by said receiver, Henry Fink, and which have
not been or shall not hereafter be paid by said receiver or
other parties in interest herein, and said purchaser or pur
chasers, their successor or successors or assigns, shall have the
right to appear and make defence to any claim, debt or demand
sought to be enforced against said property, and said pur
chaser or purchasers, their successor or successors or assigns,
shall also have the right to enter appearance in this or any
other court and contest any claim or demand pending and
undetermined at the date of the confirmation of such sale.
All claims, debts and demands accruing during the receiver
ship herein shall be barred, unless presented, as herein provided,
within six months after.the confirmation of said sale, and
jurisdictlon of this cause is retained bv this court for the pur
pose of enforcing the provisions of this article of this decree."
A supplemental decree was made April 26, 1886, and a special
master, on the 25th of May, 1886, sold the property at public
auction to Frederick P Olcott and others, the appellants herein,
for $10,250,000. The master reported the sale to the court,
and a decree confirming it was made June.28. 1886. That

OLCOTT v. HEADRICK.
Opinion of the Court.

decree recited that the plaintiff had applied for the confirmation of the sale, that the sale had been made to Olcott and
others, acting as a committee on the part of the bondholders,
as purchasing trustees, that no exceptions to the report of the
sale had been filed, and sufficient notice of the hearing of the
application had been given to the solicitors of the parties to
the cause, and the decree went on to confirm the sale and the
report of sale, and to provide that the special master should
execute a proper instrument in writing, conveying to the purchasers, as a committee acting on behalf of the bondholders,
as purchasing trustees, all the property described in the decree
of sale, and further provided as follows "And it is further
ordered, adjudged and decreed that the said purchasers shall
take the said property, and that it be recited in said deed that
they do take the said property, subject to, and that the said
purchasers assume and pay off, any and all debts, claims and
demands of whatsoever nature now pending and undetermined
in either of the courts in which the original and ancillary bills
in this cause are pending which may be allowed and adjudged
by this court, or either of said courts where ancillary bills are
pending, as prior to any right secured under said consolidated
first mortga(re under foreclosure of which the said sale was
made, and subject- likewise to all debts, claims and demands
of whatsoever nature incurred by Henry Fink, as receiver in
this cause, and which may remain unpaid at the termination
of said Fink's receivership." It does not appear by the record
whether such deed was given, but it is to be presumed that
it was.
On the 2d of March, 1887, an intervening petition was filed
in the cause by 0. B. Headrick, the appellee herein, alleging
that he, on March 30, 1886, as a passenger upon one of the
trains of the railroad operated by the receiver, had been seriously injured and permanently disabled, by reason of a collision which occurred on the road, without fault on his part,
but through the negligence of the agents and employes of the
receiver, and he prayed for a judgment for damages for such
ijuries, and that the same might be paid out of one or the
other of the following funds, alleged to be in the custody of
VOL. cxLI-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

the court and still undistributed "1st. The fund resulting
from the operation of the road by the receiver and hitherto
unappropriated. 2d. The funds hitherto in the hands of the
receiver, which have been by him diverted from the expenses

of the receivership and appropriated to the payment of the
bonded indebtbdness of the railroad company, defendant, and
to the purchase of rolling stock for, and the permanent improvement of, said railroad property 3d. The funds resulting
from the operation of said railroad by said receiver, which
were turned over to the purchasers of said railroad under the
sale ordered thereof by this court in this cause. 4th. The
obligation of the purchasers to pay for and discharge all the
liabilities and obligations of the receiver, on all accounts, as a
part of the terms of their purchase of the property"
To this petition it was answered, as a defence, that the
petitioner's right of action, if any, was barred by the provisions of the decree of sale and the decree of confirmation,
because the petition was not filed until after the lapse of six
months after the dcree was made confirming the sale. It
was, in fact, filed more than eight months thereafter.
On the hearing of the petition by the Circuit Court, held by
the circuit judge (Judge Jackson) and the district judge, (Judge
Key,) their opinions were opposed on the following questions
"1st. Whether or not the petitioner was entitled to file
said petition in said cause after the lapse of more than six
(6) months after the entry of the decree confirming sale.
2d. Whether or not, under the decrees of sale, and confirmation of sale, plaintiff's action was barred. 3d. Whether or not
the purchasers of the property were liable for any claim
against the receiver presented to the court more than six
(6) months after the decree of confirmation of the sale." The
opinion of the circuit judge was in favor of the petitioner, and
judgment was entered accordingly; and the foregoing questions were certified to this court. The judgment was for $500
in favor of the petitioner, with costs, and against the receiver,
but the judgment stated that, as the receiver had been discharged from further liability, and the purchasers took the
property subject to, and assumed to pay, any and all claims

OLCOTT v. HEADRICK
Opinion of the Court.

and demands of whatsoever nature, incurred by the receiver,
it was adjudged 'that the purchasers pay the $500, and costs,
to the petitioner.
We are of opinion that the first and third questions must
be answered in the affirmative, and the second question in the
negative, and that the judgment must be affirmed.
Although the decree of sale provided that all claims, debts,
and demands accruing during the receivership should be
barred unless presented within six months after the confirmation of the sale, yet the decree of confirmation provided that
the purchasers should take the property, and that the deed
should recite that they took it, subject to all debts, claims
and demands, of whatsoever nature, incurred by the receiver,
and which might remain unpaid at the termination of his
receivership. It does not appear that the purchasers objected
to the terms of the decree of confirmation, or appealed to this
court from that decree. They might have done both, on the
ground that the decree of confirmation varied from the terms
of the decree of sale under which they had bought, in destroying the six months' limitation. It was uncertain, under
the terms of the decree of sale, what claims might be presented within six months after the confirmation of the sale
and be allowed by the court, and, as they became parties to
the proceeding by their purchase, they should have seen to it
that the terms of the decree of confirmation did not create
still further uncertainty, by destroying the six months' linitation. The time- of the confirmation of the sale was uncertain, and, inasmuch as the six months, by the decree of March
18, 1886, was to run from the confirmation of the sale, the
purchasers were put upon inquiry to see that the term of six
months was not varied by the decree of confirmation.
If the purchasers had objected to the decree of confirmation
because it destroyed the six months' limitation, they could
either have asked the court not to insert such a provision, and,
on its refusal, have appealed to this court, or have declined to
be bound by the sale, on the ground that the new terms
varied from those contained in the decree of sale.
It was within the discretion of the court to abrogate the six

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

months' limitation, the fund being substantially a fund in
court. Brook8 v. Gibbons, 4 Paige, 374, Burehardv Phillips,
11 Paige, 70; GrmnelZ v Jferchants' Iw. Co., 1 0. E. Green
(16 N. J. Eq.), 283, Lashley v Hogg, 11 Vesey, 602, Hurley
v AMurrell, 2 Tenn. Oh. 620. That being so, as the record
does not show on what grounds the court acted, the presumption must be ttat it properly exercised its discretion.
The first and third questions are answered in the affirmative, and the second question in the negative, and the judgment is
Affirmed.

ROGERS v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR T
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 78. Argued November

5,

1891.-Decided November 16, 1891.

Where an action at ip.w was tried by a District Court without a jury which
found the facts and conclusions of law, and entered judgment for the
plaintiff thereon, and a bill of exceptions was signed, which stated that
the defendant moved the court to direct a verdict for him, on the ground
that, as matter of law, no action could be maintained by the plaintiff, and
the Circuit Court, on a writ of error, affirmed the judgment, and the defendant then sued out a writ of error from this court. Held,
(1) The Circuit Court could not properly consider any matter raised by
the bill of exceptions, nor can this court do so, because the trial
was not by a jury nor on an agreed statement of facts;
(2) All that the Circuit Court could do was to affirm the judgment of
the District Court, and all that this court can do is to affirm the
judgment of the Circuit Court, as the latter court had jurisdiction and this court has it.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

X2, George Bliss for plaintiff in error.
.Xr Solicitor Genera2 for defendant m error.
M .

USTICE BLATcHFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

