OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

December 7, 1891. MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER remarked that the
same questions were presented in this case as in that just decided,
and it must take the same course.
Dismissed.
Writ of error
lfr John Paul Jones and .Mi Reese H. Voorhees for the motion
to dismiss.

Mr J. C. Haines opposing.

MYERS v. GROOM SHOVEL COMPANY
PPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 70. Argued November 4, 1891.-Decided December 7, 1891.

Letters patent No. 208,258, granted September 24, 1878, to Henry Al. Myers
for an " mprovement in handle sockets for shovels, spades and scoops"
are void for want of novelty m the alleged invention covered by them,
that invention having been anticipated by the "Ames California spade."

TE case is stated in the opinion.
M2f

TIF Bakewell for appellant.

Mr _Fran sciT Chambers for appellee.
MNR. CHIEF lUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opminio

of the

court.
This was a bill exhibited by Henry M. Myers against The
Groom Shovel Company, in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Western District of Pennsylvania, for infringement of letters patent No. 208,258, dated September 24, 1878,
for "improvement in handle sockets for shovel, spades and
sodops."

The answer denled that Myers was the first inventor, and
set up want of novelty, public use and sale for more than two

MYERS v. GROOM SHOVEL 00.
Opinion of the Court.

years before the application, anticipation, and non-infringement.

The Circuit Court held that, in view of the state of the art,
if the patent were within the domain of patentable invention,
it was so close to the line as to render it fairly disputable
whether it might not be assigned to the category of products
of mere mechanical skill, and that, however that might be,
the invention was not essentially distinguishable in construction from a spade known as the "Ames California spade,"
which was a clear anticipation of the patented device. A
decree dismissing the bill was therefore entered.
The application was made April 20, 1878, and reference to
the file wrapper and contents shows that the original claim
read as follows "A shovel, spade or scoop provided with a
socket and straps combined and constructed in two pieces for"
attaching the handle to the blade, substantially as herein described and for the purpose set forth." This claim was rejected as anticipated by-patent for shovels, No. 186,520, issued.
to E. A. Barnes, January 23, 1877. It was thereupon amended
by substituting the present claim, which reads "As an improved means of securing handles to shovels the herein described
combined socket and straps, the same being composed of the
two straps, C D, forming a union at g and terminating in the
socket e, as shown and described." The application was again
rejected on the ground that the amended claim did not possess
patentable novelty in view of patent No. 160,170, for shovels,
issued to P B. Cunningham, February 23, 1875, and patent
No. 113,805, for tool handles, issued to D. G. Smith, April 18,
1871. The applicant thereupon erased from his specification
the words just preceding "his claim "Having thus described
my improvement, what I claim as of my invention is," and inserted in lieu -thereof the following- "I am aware that a continuous socket for shovels has been made in two pieces, and I
am also aware that a solid socket has been formed with handle
straps, but in contradistinction to such I claim." The application was then allowed and the patent issued. With the exception of the paragraph thus added by way of amendment, the
specification of the patent is identical with that originally filed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

The claim in the Barnes patent was for "a scoop having
front and back straps forming a socket for the handle, the
back strap of a separate piece from the body or bowl of the
scoop, said back strap being riveted on the curve of the bowl,
and back of the line of wear, substantially as and for the purpose specified."
The method of construction of this shovel or scoop was the
formation of a socket by two straps, between which the wooden
handle was fitted in, the straps meeting on their s~ides, forming
a socket throughout their entire length.
The Smith patent was an invention for attaching handles
to spades, forks and other implements, consisting in a socket
or tubular portion having two straps, which socket and straps
received the wooden handle. The socket was called by the
patentee a ferrule, and the claim was for the ferrule as described, combined with a ring applied to its end.
The Cunningham patent described a construction similar to
that of Smith, but the shovel blade was attached by-means of
a metal tongue in connection with the straps.
The Myers disclaimer aimed to differentiate the Myers claim.
from the Barnes continuous socket made.of two pieces, and the
Smith and Cunningham solid socket formed with extensions
or straps, as stated therein. In the Myers patent the wooden
handle is secured to the blade of the shovel by two straps,.
which at their parts next to the shovel llade are .bent around
the handle to form a socket, the lower part of the wooden
handle being received in the socket or ferrule, and the straps
extending up upon the body of the handle.
The defendant's expert Hunter, after describing the Barnes,
Smith and Cunningham patents, testified that these constructions being old, "the distinction upon which the patent of
Myers is based, is that the straps which extend up upon the
body of the handle must be bent around the said handle to
form a union. close to the shovel blade and form a socket, but
in which the remaining parts of the straps further up upon the
handle shall not meet upon their sides," and further that,
"the Myers construction is substantially identical with what
is shown in the Barnes patent if the straps forming the socket

MYERS v. GROOM SHOVEL CO.
Opinion of the Court.

at the upper end of the Barnes patent were slightly spread or
extended with less width. It would be the same as the constructron shown in the Smith and Cunningham patents if the
sockets of the said patents were split longitudinally, as shown
in the Barnes patent. The construction shown in the Barnes
patent, in which the straps, form a socket throughout its entire
length, is undoubtedly much stronger than the Myers construction." fe concluded, therefore, that there was no particular
difference between what was.shown and claimed in the -yers
patent and what was shown in the prior patents referred to.
As to the Ames California spade, he testified "The California spade shows a construction in which the handle is secured to the blade by means of two straps, which approach
each other at their ends next to the blade and form a union or
practical union and make a socket, in which the lower part of
the handle is encased. I therefore find the said California
spade to have a construction in which the handle is secured by
a socket and straps, the two straps forming a union near the
blade and terminating in a socket substantially in the manner
and for the purpose set out and claimed in the Myers patent.
It will be seen from this that the California spade has a construction having all the advantage of the ordinary handle
straps combined with the socket, whereby the handle is greatly
strengthened and securely attached to the blade, and consequently embodies all the advantages of the Myers construction.
The two constructions are practically the same."
We quote thus at length from the testimony of this witness
because, after a careful examination of the various exhibits in
evidence, we quite agree with his conclusion. Counsel for
appellant, referring to the California spade, says "This spade
has heavy straps, which are riveted to the blade of the spade
at their lower end, and extend upward to within&an inch and
a half of the bow of the handle. They taper gradually from
the blade upward. They do not, however. foria a socket, because, while they nearly meet around the wooden handle near
the blade, they are cut in at that point so as to form a ferrule
around the wood, but not a socket on the blade."
But there is no description of any socket in the blade in the
Mvers patent. The specification says:

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opimon of the Court.

"In the, drawings A represents a scoop blade, which may
be of any of the known forms and constructed of the ordinary
material. B represents the handle, which is constructed of
wood. C and E represent the handle straps, which are cut (in
-the form shown in Fig. 4) from sheet iron or sheet steel and
furnished wit4 openings for the rivets used for attaching them
to the blade A and handle B. The straps C and D are then
swaged into the form necessary for the upper and lower strap,
as indicated in Figs. 1 and 2, so that the edges ff in Fig. 4
meet, as at g in Figs. 2 and 3, forming the socket e (indicated
in Fig. 3). The parts A and t of the straps C and D are then
riveted to the blade A. The straps C and D may be forged
and plaited with the blade A. The handle B is then fitted
into the socket e and the straps riveted to the handle as shown
in Figs. 1 and 2.
"By constructing handle straps in two pieces of the form
shown in Fig. 2 a socket for the reception of the end of the
handle is formed, having the advantage of the ordinary handle
straps combined with said socket, whereby the handle is greatly
strengthened and securely attached to the blade A, and said
combined socket and handle straps are constructed with economy of labor and material and with great facility"
The drawings do not show any section of a socket within
the blade. The socket shown is formed by riveting the straps
to the blade, and the handle does not eitend below the socket,
created by the union of the straps:
As this California spade is in all substantial respects the
same as the implement described in the Myers patent, and, as
appears from the evidence, was largely made and sold between
1860 and 1870, and had been in stock at the Ames Works, in
Massachusetts, for fifteen or twenty years prior to 1886, we
entirely concur with the Circuit Court, and the decree is consequently

Ajfrmed.

MR. JVsT=cE BRADnL.Y and Mfn. JusTioE GRAY did not hear
the argument, and took no part in the decision of this case.

