DENNY v. PIRONI.
Statement of the Case.

From this brief statement of facts it is entirely clear that
this court has no jurisdiction of the appeal. There is no allegation or proof of the value of the property recovered in the
ejeetment suit, the only showing being that the aggregate
amount paid by the three plaintiffs for their parcels was
$1291.50. The only allegation of value is that the whole
estate was "not worth $6000," though how much less it was
worth is not stated. It further appears that plaintiffs' deeds
did not cover the whole of such estate, and that the amount
due and unpaid upon the annuity at the time these sales were
made was about $1300.
Under no possible theory can the case be said to involve the
amount exceeding $5000 requisite to give this .court jurisdiction, and the appeal must therefore be
.Dwmr ssed.

DENNY v. PIRONI.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 1661. Submitted April 2T, 1891.-Decided May 25, 1891.
When the pleadings in an action in a Circuit Court of the United States fail
t6".show averments of diverse citizenship necessary to give the court
jurisdiction, the fault cannot be cured by making such an averment in
a remittitur by the plaintiff of a portion of the judgment.
While it is not necessary that the essential facts, necessary to give a Circuit Court jurisdiction on the ground of diverse citizenship should be
averred in the pleadings, they must appear in such papers as properly
constitute the record on which judgment is entered, and not in averments
which are improperly and surreptitiously introduced into the record fpr
the purpose of healing a defect in this particular.
The cases on this subject reviewed.

THIS was a writ of error sued out under the act of February
25, 1889,.25 Stat. 693, c. 236, allowing a writ of error in all
cases involving the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court.
The action. was brought by the defendants in error against

OCTOBER TERMkf, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

Denny, one of the plaintiffs in error, to recover certain wines
purchased of the plaintiffs by one Momand through the
alleged fraudulent device of Denny, who subsequently seized
such wines upon an attachment of his own against :Momand.
The only averment of citizenship, requisite to give jurisdiction, was contained in the following allegation
"1. That petitioners, who are hereinafter styled plaintiffs,
are and were at the times of the accrual of the causes of
action hereinafter stated, a mercantile firm, composed as
aforesaid, engaged in the wholesale wine and liquor business
in the city and county of Los Angeles, California, where both
of said plaintiffs also reside, that defendant is a resident citizen of Dallas County, Texas, within the Northern Judicial
District of Texas."
The case went to trial upon this allegation, and a judgment
was recovered against Denny and the sureties upon his replevin
bond for $2224.70, the value of the property, besides $238.29
damages, with interest and costs. Motion was made for a,
new trial February 23, 1891, upon alleged errors in the instruction of the court and m the verdict of the jury, and was denied.
Upon the same day a motion was made in arrest of the judgment, which had already been entered, upon the ground that.
there was no allegation in the petition showing that plaintiffs
and defendant were citizens of different States, and na allegation to show that the court had jurisdiction. Upon the next.
day the plaintiffs filed the following remittitur
"Now at this time come Pironi & Slatri, a firm and copartnership, composed of C. B. Pirom and F Slatri, the. plaintiffs
in the above-numbered and entitled cause, each of whom is
now and was at the date of the institution of this suit, a citizen of the State of California, and a resident of the city and
county of Los Angeles, in said State of California, and show
to the court that they, on the 21st day of February, 1891,
recovered a judgment against the defendant, J. C. Denny, who
was at the date of the institution of this suit a citizen of the
State of Texas, and a resident of the city of Dallas, in said
State of Texas, within the Northern Judicial District of Texas,
for certain personal property of the value of'$2224.70, and also

DENNY v. PIROTI.
Opinion of the Court.

damages for its detention in the sum of $238.29, besides interest and costs, and said plaintiffs now in open court remit the
sum of five dollars to and from the said sum of $238.29, the
damages awarded in said judgment aforesaid, and plaintiffs
pray that this remittitur may be noted on the docket and
entered in the minutes, and that execution may issue in due
course for the balance of said judgment after deducting said
sum of five dollars now here remitted from the damages
adjudged as aforesaid."
Upon the filing of this document an order was made that
"said remittitur be noted on the docket and filed herein as a
part of the record of this cause, and that the said sum of five
dollars be, and the same is hereby, remitted from the judgment
of $238.29, assessed and adjudged as damages in said original
judgment herein entered on February 21, 1891, and it is further ordered that execution issue for the balance only of said
original judgment after deducting the said amount of five dollars so here remitted." An order was also made denying the
motion in arrest of judgment, and a bill of exceptions was
settled setting forth the above facts.
.A& dTohn Jonm for plaintiffs in error.
.A1' W Hallett Ph ilips for defendants in error.
"MY.JusTio BRowNw, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The only averment of the plaintiffs' citizenship appearing
in the record prior to the remittitur is contained in the first
allegation of the petition, that "the petitioners, who are heremafter styled plaintiffs, are and were at the times of the
accrual of the causes of action hereinafter stated, a mercantile
firm, composed as aforesaid, engaged in the wholesale wine
and liquor business in the city and county of Los Angeles,
California, where both of said plaintiffs also reside." That an
averment of residence is not the equivalent of an averment of
citizenship, and is insufficient to give the Circuit Court jurisdiction, has been settled in a multitude of cases in this court

12A

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Parker v Overman, 18 How 137, Robertson v Cease,'97 U. S.
.646, Everhart v Huntsville College, 120 U. S. 223, 3enardv
Goggan, 121 U. S. 253, and in case of a defective averment in
this particular the judgment will be reversed by this court
upon its own motion, and the case remanded ;- Peper v Fordyce, 119 U. S. 469, Everhart v Huntsville College, 120 U. S.
223, .Menard v Goggan, 121 U S. 253. A case cannot be
amended here so as to show jurisdiction, but the court below,
in its discretion, may allow it to be done where the suit was
instituted in the Circuit COurt, Continental Insurance Cornpany v ihoads, 119 U. S. 237, Ilalsted v. Buster, 119 U. S.
34:1.
This judgment then depends for its validity wholly upon
the question whether the mere recital of the citizenship of the
parties in the remittitur is such an incorporation of the same
into the record as obviates the objection to the original petition and supports the judgment. It has been repeatedly held
that it was not necessary for the averment to appear in the
pleadings, but that the statute was complied with if it appeared
in any part of the record. Thus in Railway Company v. Ram4ey, 22 Wall. 322, 328, which was a case removed from a state
court, the averment of citizenship did not appear in the pleadings, but the parties, by stipulation and agreement placed on
file, and made part of the record, admitted that the cause was
brought into the Circuit Court by transfer from the state court
in accordance with the statutes in such case provided. By the
same stipulation it was made to appear that all the original
files in the cause had been destroyed by fire. The court held
that, while consent of parties cannot give the courts of the
United States jurisdiction, they may admit facts which show
jurisdiction, and the courts may act judicially upon such admission, and that it would be presumed that the petition for
Temoval stated facts sufficient to entitle the party to have fhe
transfer made. Said the Chief Justice, speaking for the court.
"As both the court and the parties accepted the transfer, it
cannot for a moment be doubted that the files did then contain conclusive evidence of the existence of the jurisdictional
facts." In Briges v Spverry, 95 U. S. 401, the bill showed no

DEN NY v. PIRONI.
Opinion of the Court.

jurisdiction in the Circuit Court, but as the proceedings in, the
state court, which were held to be properly part of the record,
showed that the case was removed from the state court to the
Federal court on account of the citizenship of the parties, the
jurisdiction was sustained. The same ruling was made in
Steamslap Company v Tugman, 106 U. S. 118. In Bondurant v. Watson, 103 U S. 281, the record showed that the
husband of the original defendant, of whose will she was -the
executrix, was at the time of his death, and for many years
before had been, a citizen of Mississippi, and the court held
that it necessarily followed that the defendant was a citizen of
such State at the time of her husband's death, which took
place before the filing of the petition in the case, and that as
it also appeared that she was a citizen of the same State at
the time of the commencement of the suit against her, the
jurisdiction should be sustained.
While these cases settle the principle that it is not necessary
that the essential facts shall be averred in the pleadings, they
show that they must appear in such papers as properly constitute the record upon which judgment is entered, and not in
averments which are improperly and surreptitiously introduced into the record for the purpose of healing a defect in
this particular. Thus in Robertson v Cease, 97 U S. 646, it
was claimed by counsel to be apparent, or to be fairly inferred
from certain documents or papers copied into the transcript,
that tte plaintiff was at the time of the commencement of the
action, a citizen of Illinois. Among these documents was a
notice of an application for a commission to examine witnesses,
among whom was the plkintiff, described as residing in the
county of Mason, State of Illinois, and there was a deposition
of his, which began as follows "My name is Henry Cease;
residence, Mason County, Illinois." Under the doctrine of the
cases before cited it was contended that the citizenship of Cease
was satisfactorily shown by these documents, which it was insisted were a part of the record. "But," said the court, "this
position cannot be maintained. It involves a misapprehension
of our former decisions. When we declared that the record,
other than the pleadings, may be referred to in this court, to

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opnon of the Court.

ascertain the citizenship of the parties, we alluded only to such
portions of the transcript as properly constituted the record
upon which we must base our final judgment, and not to
papers which have been improperly inserted in the transcript.
Those relied upon here to supply the absence of" distinct avermenuts in the plbadings as to the citizenship of Cease, clearly
do not constitute any legitimate part of the record."
In the case under consideration, the remittitur formed no
proper part of the judgment record, and the recital of citizenship formed no proper part of the remittitur. Undoubtedly proceedings subsequent to -the judgment are admissible to show
what action has been taken upon such judgment, as for instance, that it has been vacated, stayed, amended, modified
or paid, that execution has been issued upon it, or that a part
of it has been remitted, but such proceedings cannot be introduced to validate a judgment void for the want of jurisdiction. Not only is the remittitur in this case open to this
objection, but it appears upon its face not to have been filed
in good faith, but for the sole purpose of introducing the averment of citizenship, in other words this averment is the
object, and the remittitur the incident. Remittiturs are used
where the judgment has been accidentally entered for a larger
amount than was due, or occasionally to forestall an appeal.
.Pazft Express Company v -Malin, 132 U. S. 531, but never
to give jurisdiction where it is not otherwise shown. As well
might it be contended that the difficulty could be surmountea
by filing an affidavit subsequent to judgment. In either case
it would be impossible for the defendant to take issue upon it,
or to submit it to the court or jury as upon a plea in abatement.
The judgment of the court below must be reversed, and the
case remanded for further proceedings not sneonsw.tent
with thAs opion.

