RECTOR v. LIPSCOMB.
Statement of the Case.

RECTOR v. LIPSCOMB.
APPEAL FROM TEE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSASNo. 40. Argued and submitted October 20, 1891.-Decided November 16, 1891.
Nearly two years after the entry of a decree dismissing a bill in equity relating to the title to real estate, the complainant, without notice to the
respondent, filed his affidavit to show that its value was more than $5000,
appealed to tins court, and the appeal was allowed below and was entered
in this court. The respondent thereupon filed counter affidavits in thecourt below, and, after notice to the complainant, moved to set aside theappeal upon the ground that the value of the property was shown to be,
less than $5000. The complainant was present at the hearing of this.
motion, which resulted in an order vacating the order allowing theappedl. The respondent as appellee in this court, on all these facts as.
shown by the original and supplemental records, moved to dismiss the
Reld, that, under the circumstances, it.
appeal for want of jurisdiction.
was no more than right that this court should consider the subsequent.
affidavits, and that they showed that the amount in controversy was not.
sufficient to give this court jurisdiction, and that therefore the appeal
must be dismissed.
Red River Cattle Company v. Needham, 137 U. S. 632, affirmed and applied to
the circumstances of tns case.

THE court stated the case as follows.
On April 29, 1884, appellant filed his bill in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Arkansas, alleging that he was the equitable owner of lot 10, in
block 125, in the town of Hot Springs, Arkansas, that the
legal title stood in the name of defendant, and praying that
she be adjudged a trustee for his benefit, and ordered to convey the premises to him. On the final hearing a decree was
entered, dismissing the bill. Nearly two years thereafter,
without notice to the appellee, and on the single affidavit of
appellant that the property was worth over five thousand dollars, an appeal was allowed. Subsequently, and at the same
term, the appellee filed in the Circuit Court a motion to set
aside the order allowing an appeal, and to sustain her motion
a

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

the affidavits of sixteen citizens of Hot Springs, among them
the collector of taxes and sheriff and several real estate brokers,
showing that the value of the property was not to exceed
thirty-five hundred dollars, and probably not over twenty-five

hundred dollars. Upon this testimony the Circuit Court made
an order, setting aside and vacating the allowance of an
appeal, with leave to the appellant to renew his motion therefor, and file additional affidavits as to the value of the property' Appellant took no further action. Prior, however,
to the filing of this motion the citation had been served on
'Appellee, and the record filed in this court. The appellee now
moves to dismiss the appeal on the ground that there is not
five thousand dollars involved in the controversy
Mr A. H. Galand,with whom on the brief was Xr H. J
ay, for appellant.
Mr John ilec~lu'e for appellee submitted on his brief.
MR. JUSTICE BREw .l delivered the opinion of the court.

The motion to dismiss the appeal must be sustained. Upon
the entire testimony finally presented to the Circuit Court, and
transmitted in tt~e record original and supplemental to this
court, the proof is overwhelming that the value of the property
did not exceed five thousand dollars, and this positive testimony is reinforced by all that appears in the case in respect to
its situation and condition. There is little room for doubt on
this matter, notwithstanding the opimon of appellant that the
propety is worth over five thousand dollars. It is not in the
power of the Circuit Court to determine the extent and limits
of our jurisdiction, for that is a matter which this court must
finally decide for itself. The practice which is to be pursued
an4,the rules which are to control have been clearly and fully
stated by the Chief Justice, m the recent case of Red Rver
Cattle Company v NeedAm, 137 U. S. -632, in which this court,
while deciding that where the value 'is not definitely determinedbythe pleadings or decree it should generally be, settled
m the first instance by~the Circuit Court upon notice and testi-

RECTOR v. LIPSCONB.
Opinion of the Court.

mony, and not upon additional testimony here, also held that
the showing made in that case in the Circuit Court by affidavits
was not sufficient to establish a value in excess of five thousand
dollars, and therefore dismissed the writ of error. In this case,
by a like showing, the value clearly did not exceed five thousand dollars, and therefore we have no jurisdiction. This is
not like the case of Gage v Pumelly, 108 U. S. 164, where
the affidavits left the matter doubtful, and therefore we declined to dismiss the appeal which had been allowed by the
Circuit Court.
Nor is it sufficient answer to this, that the Circuit Court had
no power to set aside the order allowing an appeal after the
appeal had been perfected and the record filed here, RZeyser v.
Barr,105 U. S. 265, for under the circumstances it is no more
than right that we should consider these subsequent affidavits.
The appellant was present at the hearing of this motion. It
does not appear that he raised any question as to the power of
the court to entertain it, and he was given leave to file additional affidavits if he desired. All these matters, including the
affidavits, are presented to this court by a supplemental record
brought up by stipulation of parties. While the order setting
aside the allowance of an appeal may have been ineffectual,
because the case had passed out of that into this court, yet
these affidavits of value, one by the plaintiff and sixteen by
the witnesses of the defendant, were all filed in that court, filed
for the purpose of determining the right to an appeal, and
have all come regularly before us and are presented for our
consideration. Although in a doubtful case we shall not disturb the ruling of a Circuit Court granting or vacating an
appeal, yet when we are fully satisfied that the amount in controversy is not sufficient to give us jurisdiction, we ought not
to attempt an inquiry into the merits of the case which is
sought to be appealed. Unless we exercise a supervising power
over these matters, many cases might be thrust upon our co.
sideration through the inattention of the trial court, or the mistake or wrong of the defeated party, which are not, in fact,
within our jurisdiction. Upqn the testimony which is called to
our attention by the actionof"the Circuit Court and the certifi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

cate of the circuit clerk in such manner that we cannot shut our.
eyes to it, it is obvious that the amount in controversy is not
sufficient to give us jurisdiction. Under the circumstances it
would be sacrificing substance to form, and assuming a jurisdiction which we do not have, to hold that because this testimony did not get before the trial court in time for its primary
action it must be wholly ignored by us. It reaches us beforewe are called upon to act, and comes to us from that court.
We hold that, under all the showing that is presented, the.
amount in controversy is not sufficient to give us jurisdiction,
and, therefore, the appeal must be and is
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY and MR. JUSTICE GRAY did not hear.
the argument or take part m the decision of this case.

:PATENT CLOTHING COMPANY, LIMITED,
,v. GLOVER.
APPEAL FROM TE

CIRCUIT COURT OF TEE UNITED STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 52. Argued October'27, 1891.-Decided November 16, 1891

Reissued letters patent No. 9616, granted to Rodmond Gibbons March 22,
1881, on the surrender of letters patent No. 178,287, for an improvement
:in pantaloons, are void for want of patentable novelty in the invention
claimed in it.

IN EQUrY, for the infrngemeit of letters patent.
is stated m the opinion.

The ease

-Hr Cau3ten Br9owne for appellant.
-Mbr Gilbert -ff.Plyympton for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of theUnited States for the Southern District of New York, dismiss-

