OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

such as to give them a controlling force over the regulations
of interstate commerce which may have been expressly or impliedly adopted by Congress, or such as to exempt them from
nullity when repugnant to the exclusive power given to Congress in relation to that commerce. This is abundantly shown
by the decisions to which we have already referred, which are,
clear to the effect that neither licenses nor indirect taxation of
any kind, nor any system of state regulation, can be imposed
upon interstate any more than upon foreign commerce, and
that all acts of legislation producing any such result are, to
that extent, unconstitutional and void. And as, in our judgment, the law of Kentucky now under consideration, as applied
to the case of the plaintiff in error, is open to this objection, it
necessarily follows that the judgment of the Court of Appeals
must be reversed.
Thejudgment z8 reversed accordingly,and the cause remanded
for f urtherproceedings not inconszstent with thzs opznwn.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE

and AlR. JUSTICE

GRAY

dissented.

MR. JUSTICE: BRowN, not having been a member of the court

when the case was argued, took no part in the decision.

VOIGHT v. WRIGHT.
ERROR TO

THE

CORPORATION COURT

OF

THE CITY OF. NORFOLE,

STATE OF VIRGINIA.

No. 92. Submitted November 26, 1890. -Decided

May 25. 1891.

The act of Virgima of March, 1867, (now repealed,) as set forth in c. 86,
Code of Virginia, edi. 1873, providing that all flour brought into the State
and offered for sale therein shall be revewed, and have the Virginia inspection marked thereon, and imposing a penalty for offering such flour
for sale without such review or inspection, is repugnant to the commerce
clause of the Constitution, because it is a discriminating law, requiring
the inspection of flour brought from other States when. it is not required
for flour manufactured in Virginia.

VOIGHT v. WRIGHT..
Opinion of the Court.

TUE case is stated in the opinion.
.M Jtme8 E. Heath for plaintiffs in error.
No appearance for defendant in error.
M.

JusTIoE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action brought in 1886, in a justice's court m
Norfolk, State of Virginia, by Wright, the defendant in error,
against the plaintiffs in error, R. P Voight & Co., to recover
fifteen dollars for fees alleged to be due to the plaintiff for
inspection of flour. Judgment was rendered for the plaintiff,
and an appeal taken to the corporation- court of the city of
Norfolk, by which court the judgment was affirmed. This
being the highest court of, the State in which a decision in the
suit could be had, a writ of error to the same was sued out of
this court, and the case is now here for review
the question
in the case has respect to the constitutionalityaf. a law of Vir-inia, passed in March, 1867, by which it wa. declared as follows (1) "All flour brought into this State and offered for
sale therein shall be reviewed, and have the Virginia inspection
marked thereon. (2) Any person or persons selling or offering
to sell such flour without review or inspection, as provided in
the preceding section, shall be fined the sum of five ddllars, for
the use of the commonwealth, for each barrel so sold or offered
for sale." This law was afterwards carried into the code of
1878, constituting the 10th and 11th sections of -the 86th chapter of the said code. The laws also gave to the inspector a
fee of two cents for each barrel inspected. There was no law
requiring flour manufactured in Virginia to be thus inspected
as a condition of selling it or offering it for sale, though by
the inspection laws of the State manufacturers of flour might
have their flour so inspected if they saw fit. It may be proper
to add that the law in question is now repealed.
On the trial of the cause in the corporation court the following bill of exceptions was taken, to wit
"Be it remembered that upon the trial of this cause the following statement of facts was agreed between the parties, to

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

wit The following facts are agreed in this case to have the
same force and effect as if regularly proved by competent
proof
"1st. The plaintiff is the flour inspector for the city of Norfolk, duly appointed and commissioned as such.
"2d. The defendants are wholesale grocery merchants, conducting their business in the said city
"3d. The bill of the plaintiff is for the inspection of 750 bar
rels of flour belonging to the defendants, and brought into this
State from other States, and inspected as required by c. 86 of
the Code of Virginia, edition 1873, before the same was sold
or offered for sale and after the same was placed in his storehouse.
"And, to maintain the issue on his part, the plaintiff and
appellee, E. T. Wright, read the sections of the statute of Virginia, as set forth in chapter 86 of the Code of Virginia, edition
of 1873, in relation to the inspection of flour brought into this
State from sister States, and, to maintain the issue on their
part, the appellants and defendants, R. P Voight & Co., read
from the commercial clause of the Constitution of the United
States, vIz., art. I, sec. 8th, clauses 1 and 3, and section 10,
clause 2, and art. IV, sec. 2, clause 1, and insisted fhat the said
sections of said statute of the State of Virginra are in conflict
with the Constitution of the United States, but the court
overruled the objections of the said R. P Voight & Co., and
expressed the opinion that the said statute of the State of Virginia is not in conflict with the said Constitution of the United
States, and thereupon gave judgment for the plaintiff, and t>
this opinion of the court the defendants, R. P Voight & Co.,
byetheir counsel, except and pray that this bill of exceptions
may be signed, sealed and made a part of the record in this
cae, which is accordingly done.
I'D. Tu= R B~ooKE, [sEAL]
"fudge Cororation Court of the City of Nforfolk, Ta."
The State of Virgima has had a system of inspection laws
from an early period, but they have related to articles produced in the State, and the main purpose of the inspection.

VOIGHT v. WRIGHT.
Opinion of the Court.

required has been to prepare the articles for exportation, in
order to preserve the credit of the exports of the State in foreign markets, as well as to certify their genuineness and purity
for the benefit of purchasers generally Chief Justice Marshall, in Gibbons v Ogden, said "The object of inspection
laws is to improve the quality of articles produced ,by the
labor of a country to fit them for exportation, or it may be,
for domestic use." 9 Wheat. 1, 203. In Brown v .Xaryland,
speaking of the time when inspection is made, he adds "Inspection laws, so far as they act upon articles for exportation,
are generally executed on land before the article is put .on
board the vessel, so far as they act upon importations, they
are generally executed upon articles .which are landed. The
tax or duty of inspection, then, is a tax which is frequently, if
not always, paid for service performed on land." 12 Wheat.
419, 438. Whilst, from the remark of the Chief Justice, last
cited, it would appear that inspection pay be made of imported.
goods, as well as goods intended for export, yet in what manner and to what extent this may be done without coming in
collision with the power of Congress to regulate foreign and
interstate commerce, may be somewhat difficult to explain
with precision. In the case of People v Compagnse Generale
Transatlantigue,107 U. S. 59, it was held by this court that a
law of the State of New York imposing a tax upon alien passengers coming by vessel from a foreign country to the port
of New York is a regulation of foreign commerce, and void,
although it was declared by the title of the law'to be "An act
to raise money for the execution of the inspection laws of th&
State," which laws authorized passengers to be inspected in
order to determine who were criminals, paupers, lunatics,
orphans or infirm persons, without means or capacity to support themselves, and subject to become a public charge. It is.
true that the law was held not to be an inspection law, because
such laws have reference only to personal property, and not
to persons. But-the question is still open as to the mode and
extent in which state inspec-,ion laws can constitutionally be
applied to personal propercy-imported from abroad, or from
another State, - whether such laws can go beyond the identiVOL. CXLi-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

fication and regulation of such things as are directly injurious
to the health and lives of the people, and therefore-not entitled to the protection of the commercial power of the government, as explained and distinguished in the case of Crutcher
v. ifentucky, ante, 47, just decided.
It may be remarked, in passing, that in the notes to Turner
v .aryland, 107 U S. 38, 51, 53, prepared by Mr. Justice
Blatchford, in which is contained a list of the various inspection laws of the different States, we do not observe any laws
which seem to provide for the inspection of articles other than
those -which are the produce of the State, and this generally
with a view to preparing them for exportation.
But, be this as it may, and without attempting to lay down
any specific proposition on this somewhat difficult subject,
there is enough in the case before us to decide it on satisfac"torygrounds, without passing upon the general right of the
State to inspect imports or the qualifications to which it must
necessarily be subject. The lawin question is a discriminating
law, and requires the inspection of flour brought from other
States, when.such inspection is not required for flour manufactured in Virginia. This aspect of the case brings it directly
within the principle of Brinmmer v. Pebman, 138 U. S. 78,
decided at the present term. The law in question in that case
was another statute of Virginia, making it unlawful to sell
within the State any fresh meats (beef; veal or mutton)
slaughtered one hiindred miles, or over, from the place at
which it might be offered for sale, until it had been inspected
and approved as provided in the act. Mr. Justice Harlan,
delivering the opinion of the court in that case, said. "Undoubtedly, a State may establish regulations for the protection
of its people against the sale of unwholesome meats, provided
such regulations do not conflict with the powers conferred by
the Constitution upon Congress, or infringe rights granted or
secured by that instrument. But it may not, under the guise
-of exerting its police powers, or of enacting inspection laws,
make discriminations against the products and industries of
some of the States in favor of the prodmcts and industries
of its own or of other States. The owner of the meats here

STEIN v. BIENVlLIE WATER SUPPLY CO.
Syllabus.

in question, although they were from animals slaughtered
in Illinois, had the right, under the Constitution, to compete
in the markets of Virginia upon terms of equality with the
owners of like meats, from animals slaughtered in Virginia
or elsewhere within one hundred miles from the place of sale.
Any local regulation which in terms or by its necessary operation denies this equality in the markets of a State is, when
applied to the people and products or industries of other
States, a direct burden upon commerce among the States, and,
therefore, void. Welton v. 7issour', 91 U. S. 275, 281, Railroad Co. v. Husen, 95 U. S. 465, Minnesota v Barber, 136
U S. 313, 319." The case of Brmmer v Rebman was decided
in accordance with these views, the law in question being held
to be unconstitutional and void. The decision in that case is
so directly apposite to the present that it is unnecessary to
prolong the discussion, or to cite further authorities.
The judgment of the Corporation Court of the city of
Norfolk is
Reversed, and .the cause Pemanded for further proceedings
not incons'stent with thss optnton.
M]. JusncE BRowN, not having been a member of the
court wi-en this case was argued, took no part in the decision.

STEIN v. BIENVILLE' WATER SUPPLY COMPANY
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.
o.

4.

Argued April 28,1891. -Decided

May 11, 1891.

A contract with a municipal corporation, whereby the corporation grants
to the contractor the sole privilege of suppipng the municipality with
water from a designated source for a term of years, is not impaired,
within the meaning of the contract clause of the Constitution, by a grant
to another party of a privilege to supply it with water from a different
source.

