McLEAN v. CLAPP.
Syllabus.

While this court has held in a number of cases, even so late
as AIagowan v The -ew York Beltang and Packng Co. ante,
332, decided at the present term, that in a doubtful case the fact
that a patented article had gone into general use is evidence
of its utility, it is not conclusive even of that -much less of
its patentable novelty
In no view that we have been able to take of the case can
we sustain the second McClain patent. We do not care to
inquire how far it was anticipated by the various devices put
in evidence, showing the use of a similar spring for analogous
purposes, since we are satisfied that a mere severance of the
double spring does not involve invention, at least in the absence
of conclusive evidence that the single spring performs some
new and important function not performed by it in the prior
patent. The evidence upon this point is far from satisfactory,
and the decree of the Circuit Court must, therefore, be
-Affrmed.
The

CHIEF JUSTICE

and MR. JusTicR

GRAY

did not hear the

argument and took no part in the decision of this case.

McLEAN v. CLAPP
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
7o. 31. Argued October 15,16,1891.-

Decided November 2, 1891.

Grymes v. Sanders, 93 U. S. 55, affirmed and applied to the point that where
a party desires to rescind a contract upon the ground of mistake or
fraud, he must, upon discovery of the facts, at once announce his purpose and adhere to it, and that if he be silent, and continue to treat the
property as his own, he will be held to have waived the objection, and
will be conclusively bound by the contract, as if the mistake or fraud
had not occurred.
A holder of the legal title to real estate who has no equitable mterest
therein, calinot, by his act done without the knowledge or consent of the
holder of the equitable title, who is in possession of and residing on the
premises claiming title, rescind a completed settlement of a mortgage

OCTOBER 'PERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.
debt on the premises so as to bind the holder of the equitable title, and
prevent him from setting up defences which would otherwise be open to
him.

IT

Decree dismissing the bill. The plaintiffs
The case is stated in the opinion.

EQUITY.

appealed.

.Atr Edwm B. Smith for appellants.
.fr Solomon ff.
appellees.

ethea and _Mr Sherwood D on for

MR.Jusaiioo BRnwn.n delivered the opinion of the court.

In December, 1855, Edwin W McLean, owning a store and
stock of goods in Amboy, Illinois, sold the same to Ruggles
W Clapp, in payment for which he received four notes,
amounting in the aggregate to five thousand nine hundred
and eighteen and six-ty-six one-hundredths dollars, drawing
ten per cent interest, and secured by mortgage on four hundred and -eighty acres of land. The first of these notes, for
five hundred dollars, due in twenty-five days, was paid, the
others were not. The last of the notes became due in May,
1857. Soon thereafter suit was commenced in the state court
on them, and to foreclose the mortgage. In this suit the
defence of usury was pleaded. A settlement was made with
Clapp, in pursuance of which the three unpaid notes were surrendered, and in lieu thereof there was taken a draft for one
thousand dollars, drawn on his brother, Alfred Clapp, of New
York City-; and eleven notes, five for two hundred dollars
each, dated June 10, 1857, made by William Jones to Ruggles
W Clapp, three mat(e by Cyrus -Craig, November 29, 1856,
to Ruggies W Clapp, two for one thousand dollars each and
one for fourteen hundred dollars; and three made by Curtis
Cannon, August 1, 1857, to Ruggles W Clapp, for four hundred and thirty-three and thirty-three one-hundredths dollars
each. These notes were all endorsed "without recourse," and
were nominally, at least, secured by conveyances of real
estate. Also, to secure the draft, on which only $250 was
ever paid, a conveyance was made of a lot and building in tb,,

McLEAN v. CLAPP.
Opinln of the Court.

town of Amboy There was no formal release of the mortgage, but the suit to foreclose was dismissed. This settlement was consummated some time in the latter part of 1857,
or the fore part of 1858, and was consummated on the part
of McLean by W E. Ives, his attorney at Amboy, McLean
himself having moved after the sale of the store to Great Barrington, -Massachusetts,though it is claimed by the defendants
that the terms of the settlement were agreed upon between
McLean and Clapp in the summer of 1857, when McLean was
on a visit to Amboy In the summer of 1861 McLean, dissatisfied with the conduct of Ives as his attorney, discharged him
and placed his business in the hands of one M. L. Arnold.
While Arnold testified that in the same summer he notified
Clapp that McLean repudiated the settlement, nothing was in
fact done looking toward a repudiation until May, 1872, when
this suit was commenced in the Circuit Court of the United
States, by McLean, to set aside the settlement, and foreclose
the mortgage, as though it still remained securitJ for the
original notes. Answers were filed, and some preliminary
steps taken in the case during one year, and up to May, 1873.
From that time no order was made or proceedings had in the
case until July, 1882, when it was dismissed for want of prosecution. In the November following the order of dismissal
was set aside and the case reinstated, and leave given to file a
bill of revivor in the name of the widow and heirs of McLean,
who had died in 1875. The case thereafter proceeded regularly till May, 1887, when, upon final hearing, the bill was
dismissed.
The contentions of defendants are substantially -first, that
McLean himself arranged the terms of the settlement of 1857,
that he -did this understandingly and without any fraud or
misrepresentations on the part of Clapp, and hence cannot
now repudiate it, secondly, that if he did not himself arrange
such terms, he was in 1861 fully informed .6f the character
and value of the paper and securities received by his agent in
the settlement, and that with such full information he thereafter acquiesced in and ratified it; and, thirdly, that his laches
and delay in asserting his rights forbid any recovery against

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

the present holders of the property conveyed by the original
mortgage.
We notice only the second of these contentions. If the
settlement by wlich the original notes were surrendered was
made under such circumstances that McLean had a right to
repudiate it, it was his duty to do so as soon as advised of all
the circumstances justifying such repudiation, and he also
must have repudiated it sn. toto. The settlement was a new
contract between him and Clapp, and the law is clear that he
cannot take the benefits of that contract and repudiate its
burdens. The rule is thus stated by this court in the case of
Grymes v.18ander's, 93 U S. 55, 62 "Where a party desires
to rescind upon the ground of mistake or fraud, he must, upon
the discovery of the facts, at once announce his purpose and
adhere to it. If he be silent, and continue to treat the property
as his own, he will be held to have waived the objection, and
will be conclusively bound by the contract, as if the mistake
or fraud had not occurred. He is not permitted to play fast
and loose. Delay and vacillation are fatal to the right which
had before subsisted. These remarks are peculiarly applicable
to speculative property like that here in question, which is
liable to large and constant fluctuations in value. Thomas v
Bartow, 48 N. Y 200, Flint v TFood, 9 Hare, 620, Jennzngs
v. Broughton, 5 DeG. 11. & G. 139, Lloyd v Brewster, 4
Paige, 537, Saratoga & S. R. R. Co. v Rowe, 24: Wend. 74,
.Minturn v -Mazn, 3 Seld. 220, 7 Rob. Prac. c. 25, sect. 2, p.
432, Campbell v Fleming, 1 Ad. & El. 41, Sugd. Vend. (14th
ed.) 335, Diman v Provmdence W & B. R. R. Co., 5 R. I.
130."
If McLean did not himself arrange the terms of this settlement, if he was not at the time it was made fully informed of
the character and value-of-the securities taken in exchange,
he did become so fully informed in 1861, when he visited
Amboy, and, discharging Ives, transferred his affairs to the
control of Arnold. This appears distinctly from his own
testimony Now, if he desired to rescind his contract, his
duty was at once to return what he had received, and repudiate
wholly and forever the transaction. So far from doing this,

McLEAN v. CLAPP
Opinion of the Court.

he did exactly the contrary, he retained all the notes and
securfties received under the settlement, and has never yet
returned one of them. He took and held possession of all the
real estate. As late as March 12, 1868, he conveyed a part of
it to Cephas Clapp for eight hundred and fifty dollars. In
November, 1867, he deeded to his agent Arnold another tract
for one hundred and fifty dollars. It is true that Arnold
testifies that he was to have this land to help him pay the
expense of prosecuting this suit if unsuccessful, and that he
was to hold it so as to tender it back to the defendants if
successful. The letters, however, which accompanied this
transaction indicate that it was an absolute sale, with no such
conditions, and it appears, also, that a note of one hundred
and fifty dollars was sent by Arnold to McLean in payment
for the land. Further, he collected rent for the building in
Amboy, which was conveyed to him as security for the draft,
until it burned down in 1865. He also paid taxes on other
tracts of land conveyed in this settlement, and collected rents
therefrom - some rent being collected by Mr. Arnold for the
benefit of the present complainants, as late as 1881 and 1882
-after McLean's death and the commencement of this suit.
So even if we credit the testimony of his agent, that in -1861
he notified Clapp of an intent to rescind, (and Mr. Arnold's
integrity as a witness is strongly impeached by many witnesses,)
still the conduct of McLean in reference to the property for a
series of years, long after 1861, is at variance with the idea of
rescission, and was plainly a ratification of that settlement,
and brings the case clearly within the rule laid down by this
court, -in
the case just cited. He acted as owner, and assumed
all the rights and burdens of ownership. He became owner
only through that settlement- His conduct, after full knowledge, ratified and affirmed the settlement, and by it the
original notes were paid, and the lien of the mortgage in fact
discharged.
Were this all that appeared in the case, there would be
nothing rising to the dignity of a question. But it is said, and
this is the strong point -made by the complainants in this
respect, that in 1863 Ruggles W Clapp consented to a rescis7
VOL. CXuI-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

sion, and directed McLean to do just what he did in reference
to this property, that at that time Lot Chadwick, the ancestor of those defendants who are making the contest, had acquired, no interest in the realty, but the title stood as it did
when the mortgage was given, that the mortgagor and mortgagee had a right to rescind that settlement, and authorize the
latter to do just what he did with the property conveyed in
the settlement without prejudice to the continuance of the lien
of the mortgage, and that, as the latter was never in form
released, Chadwick purchased with full notice. The consent
of Ruggles W Clapp to this arrangement is evidenced, as is
claimed, by two letters, as follows
"1
NEw Yo=K CiT, Xfay 15th, 1863.

'I'. L. ARNoLD, Amboy, Ill.
"Dear Sir Your letter of 20th ult. is received and contents
noted. About those notes and securities left in your hands by
MvlcLean you write that they are worthless or nearly so. I
think something can be made off from them. You sell them
and make the most you can, apply on mortgage I gave
McLean. Any arrangement you can make with my brother
Henry to compromise the matter will be satisfactory to me.
I have some land in Whiteside County which I would- like to
let you have. I cannot now say when I will be in Amboy;
will try and see you when I am there again. If you compromise the matter with Henry, have McLean release the mortgage from record.
"Yours truly,
R. W CIAP.."
"FouNTr=
"M.L. ABxoLD.

HOTEL, EIGHTH STREET,

"BALThIMORE,

IMD. June 20th, 1863.

"Dear Sir Your favor of 10th inst. I received at Washington. In reply I would say that I wrote you from New York
about the middle of last month, giving you full particulars
how to proceed. I think it would be well to sell the Craig
property, get the most you can, and apply on the McLean
mortgage. The notes you say are worthless, or nearly so,

McLEAIT v. CLAPP.
Opimon of the Court.

except what can be made off the Craig property I see no
other way for you to do in the case but to make what you can
out of the securities and apply on mortgage and fall back on
the land to make up deficiency I think it would be well for
you to see my brother Henry again, and see if you can in any
way effect a compromise. He has written to me recently
stating that you had been to see him.and had offered to settle
for fifty cents on the dollar, but that you had effected no settlement, although he thought he would be able to do so. As I
wrote in my last, do the best you can, and any compromise
you can make with Henry willbe satisfactory to me. I want
the matter closed up.
R. W CIAiir."
"I remain respectfully yours,
It is urged by defendants that these letters were not written
on the dates they bear, but long after *Lot Chadwick had
acquired his interest in the realty, and for the purposes of
bolstering up this suit, and there is some reason to believe
that their contention is correct. But we do not deem it
necessary to rest upon this, and for reasons which will become
apparent when other facts disclosed by the record are stated.
Preliminary thereto it may be well to notice that these letters
do not in terms either propose or assent to a rescission of
the settlement. It: is true' that may be implied from the
direction to sell the securities and apply on the mortgage,
but each letter refers the matter of settlement to his brother
Henry- suggests compromise with him- and in advance
assents to any arrangement that may be made with Henry
If Ruggles W Clapp were the only party interested in the
property mortgaged, the letters might fairly be construed as:
a consent to the rescission and a reinstatement of full liability
under the original mortgage, but the language is that of one
who felt that he had no interest in the property, and was willing that the mortgagee should do whatever he could to secure
full payment, with all the time a clear reference to his brother
Henry as the party really interested. Now it appears from
the record, that in 1852 or 1853 Henry Clapp bought these
lands from the government- built a house thereon and en-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.

Opinion of the Court.

tered into occupation of them - and remained in open and
notorious occupation of them until 1869, the time he sold them
to Lot Chadwick. Because he was in some financial embarrassment, and because he had borrowed money of Edwin and
Jason Clapp, he caused the patents to be issued in their name,
they holding the legal title as security for the money they bad
advanced. In 1855 iRuggles W Clapp proposed to purchase
the store and stock of goods referred to from McLean, for the
joint benefit of himself and his brother Henry, and in order to
furnish security for this purchase, Henry caused Jason and
Edwin to deed the lands to Ruggles, in order that he might
execute this mortgage to McLean. Prior to this conveyance
the claim of Edwin and Jason had been paid, so that the legal
title was placed in Ruggles simply for the purpose of the
mortgage, the equitable title remaining in Henry, and as he
was living on the place, and in full, exclusive and open possession, notice of his equitable interest in the property was thereby
given to McLean, as to every one else. Landes v Brant, 10
How 348, Lea v Polko County Copper Co., 21 How 493,
Noyes v Hall, 97 U. S. 34, the latter an Illinois case. Ruggles never had any equitable interest in the property He
took the legal title simply as a conduit, through which the
mortgage lien might pass. When, therefore, by the settlement the notes were paid and surrendered, Ruggles held only
the naked legal title, with no power to further incumber the
land for any purpose. These letters of Ruggles, if written on
the dates they bear, were not written until two years after
McLean had full knowledge of the character and value of the
securities, and when, by his conduct in retaining possession,
paying taxes and receiving rents, he had ratified and approved
the settlement. Ruggles W Clapp could not then, even if he
were ever so much disposed, by any arrangement with McLean,
replace an incumbrance on the real estate. He might bind
himself, but he could not bind Henry, nor burden Henry's full,
unincumbered, though only equitable, title to the property
In January, 1861, Ruggles W Olapp quit-claimed the land to
Henry, and in March, 1869, Henry deeded to Lot Chadwick,
whose heirs are the real defendants here, and in whom the
legal title now rests.

KNEELAND v. LUCE.
Syllabus.

Summing up this matter, it appears that this alleged rescission by consent was made five or six years after the settlement
and two years after McLean had been fully informed of all
the circumstances which justified a rescission, and after he,
with full kniowledge, had ratified and affirmed it. Under
those circumstances, though binding upon Ruggles W Clapp,
the party consenting thereto, it was not binding upon others
who did not consent, and especially not on Henry Clapp, the
owner of the full equitable title, who"neither knew of nor consented to this rescission. After the lien had -once been discharged, under such circumstances that it was beyond the
recall of the mortgagee, no act or consent of Ruggles W
Clapp, the mortgagor, could renew the incumbrance upon the
lands. Henry Clapp's full equitable title was, therefore, not
disturbed or incumbered by this alleged voluntary rescission.
Our conclusion, therefore, is that the decree of the Circuit
Court was right and must be affirmed. It may also be a question whether the delay and laches in bringing this suit would
not bar a recovery, but we do not care to enter into any consideration of this question, as the equity of the matter we have
considered is clear.
Decree affl2-med.
The CHIEF JUsTICE, MR. JUSTICE B3RADLEY and MR. JUSTICE
GRAY did not hear the argument nor take part in the decision
of this case.

KNEELAND v. LUCE.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
No. 38. Argued October 16,19,1891.-Decided November 2,1891.

In a suit in equity for the foreclosure of a railroad mortgage this court
holds, on appeal by the purchaser at the foreclosure sale from a decree
declaring the claim of an intervenor to be a lien upon thfe property, that
the record is too meagre for.it to determine whether there was any error
in the decree.

