OCTOBER TERMI, 1891.
Syllabus.

on the threads closing the tear, is largely borne by the new
cloth underneath' Surely when this idea is so well known, and
has been so practically illustrated for generations, it cannot be
that there was any exercise of the skill of an inventor in applying the same process to any part of the pantaloons. If it be
said that the strengthening of the stay-piece here applied is not
to the closing of a tear, but to a seam at an angle, it may be
replied that such particular form of reinforcement is itself no
new thing. An illustration is in the seam at the angle made
by the fingers and thumb of gloves. As to that, it appears
from the testimony that the practice was old of reinforcing
the seam by an overlapping piece. Other illustrations are
also furnished by the testimony, but it is hardly necessary to
refer to these in detail. The matter is familiar to the knowledge of all, and surely the application of this reinforcing strip
of cloth to any seam, or in any place where without it the
tension would be solely on the threads, cannot be an exercise
of the skill of an inventor.
We think, therefore, that the patent sued on was void for
want of patentable novelty, and affirm the decree.
MR. JusTIcE BRADLEY

and MR. JusTICE GRAY did not hear

the argument or take part in the decision of this case.

FIRE INSURANCE ASSOCIATION, LIMITED v.
WICKHAM.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
No. 59. Argued October 28, 191. - Decided November 16, 1891.

Parol testimony is admissible to show the circumstances under which a
written instrument was executed, or that it was, in fact, without consideration.
Where the facts clearly show that a certain sum is due from one person to
another, a release of the entire sum upon payment of part is without

FIRE INSURANCE ASSOCIATION v. WICK TA

.

565

Statement of the Case.
consideration, and the creditor may still sue for and recover the residue:
but, if there be a bona fide dispute as to the amount due, that dispute
may be the subject of a compromise.
When a claim not yet due is prepaid in part by the debtor, such prepayment may operate as a discharge of the whole claim if both parties intended it to be a consideration for such discharge; and whether both
parties so intended is a question for the jury.
Circumstances attending the execution of a receipt in full of all demands,
may be given in evidence to show that by mistake it was made to express more than was intended, and that the creditor had, in fact, claims
that were not included.
The plaintiff took out fire insurance policies upon a vessel in 10 companies
to the amount of $40,000 in all. The vessel took fire, and, in order to
save it, it was scuttled and sunk, and the fire thus extinguished. It was
then raised, taken to port, and repaired. The loss by fire, exclusive of
the expense of raising the vessel, etc., was $15,364.78. The owner made
claim upon the insurers for this amount for "loss and damage by fire
and water as per agreement," stating that he would make further claims
"for expenses of raising the propeller," and was " preparing the statement
of such expenses to submit with his subsequent claim." The companies
declined to pay such subsequent claim, but paid in advance the amount
of the loss by fire so stated, taking receipts, expressed to be in full of
all claims for loss or damage by fire, and in which it was further stated
that the policies were cancelled and surrendered. The parties further
signed a paper in which "the loss and damage by fire" was certified at
that aggregate amount, "payable without discount upon presentation,"
and the amount was apportioned among the several companies. In an
action brought by the owner to recover from the companies the amount
of the claim for raising and saving the vessel, some $15,000, it was
Held,
(1) That parol evidence was admissible to explain the receipts, and to
show that they were not intended to cover the claim for raising,
etc.,
(2) That the paper so signed by the parties was not in the nature of a
contract on the part of the owner.

THE court stated the case as follows
This case was brought before the court upon a certificate
of division of opinion between the circuit and the district
judges. The action was begun in November, 1884, upon two
policies of fire insurance written by the Fire Insurance Association, defendant, upon the propeller St. Paul, of which
defendants in error were owners, one of such policies being
for $3500, and the other for $1500. On the same day actions

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

were begun against six other insurance companies upon their
policies on the same vessel, and an order was subsequently
made that all the actions so commenced should abide the
event and final determination of the one which the plaintiffs
should elect to try The following facts appeared upon the
trial In 1883, the plaintiffs, who were the owners of the
propeller St. Paul, engaged in navigating the great lakes,
obtained upon her fire insurance policies in ten companies, to
the amount of $40,000. Plaintiffs also had $45,000 of insurance
by marine policies on the same vessel at the same time. In
all of these policies save one, it was provided that in case of
loss by fire, the loss should be payable in sixty days after
proofs of loss had been filed with the company On November
10, 1883, while on a voyage from the lower lakes to Lake
Superior, a fire broke out in the hold of the vessel, and to
save her and her cargo she was scuttled and sunk, and the
fire thus extinguished. She was subsequently raised and
brought to Detroit for repairs, where she arrived on the 19th
of November, andimmediately began to discharge her cargo.
A few days thereafter, and while her cargo was being unloaded, another fire broke out in her hold, and she was again
sunk for the purpose of saving her, and was afterwards raised
at considerable expense. On the 15th of December, a written
agreement was entered into between the plaintiffs and the
adjusting agents of the several insurance companies for the
purpose of appraising the amount of loss caused by these fires,
with a stipulation that the agreement should be "of binding
effect only as far as regards the actual-cash value of or damage
to such property covered by policies of said companies issued
at their various agencies." It was further added that "the
property on which loss or damage is to be estimated and
appraised is the hull of the propeller St. Paul, including the
tackle, awnings, furniture, engine and boiler connections and
appurtenances thereto belonging," with a further memorandum, following the signature of Wickham, but preceding those
of the insurance companies, that "this agreement does not
apply to or cover any question that may arise for saving boat
and cargo." The adjustment under this agreement of the

FIRE INSURANCE ASSOCIATION{ v. WICKHAM.

567

Statement of the Case.

direct loss by fire was completed December 26, and formal
proofs of loss were also sent to the several insurance companies
in New York, and were received in due course of mail. The
amount of the loss according to the report of the appraisers,
exclusive of the expense of raising and saving the vessel and
cargo thus adjusted, aggregated $15,364.78, and the amount
proportioned to the plaintiffs in error was $1920.60. The
adjusting agent in sending proof of loss to the companies
accompanied the same with the following letter to each of
such companies
"Buffalo, January 12, 1884.
"Gentlemen I enclose herewith proofs, John W Wickham,
Jr., managing owner, for loss and damage prop. St. Paul,
which I trust will be found satisfactory"The claim as made covers only the loss and
damage by fire and water, as per agreement,
on the tackle, awnings, apparel, furniture,
etc., of.
And the appraisers' award on hull, engines,
mach'y, etc., of.
Aggregating in all.

$1,735 08
13,629 70
$15,364 78

"The assured will make further claims for expenses of raising the propeller, and is now preparing the statement of such
expenses to submit with his subsequent claim.
"Yours truly,
"W D. ALLEN, Adjuster"
At the trial, it was admitted that the cost of raising and
saving the vessel was also upwards of $15,000. The plaintiffs
admitted that they had been paid the cost of repairing the
vessel, as set forth in the proofs of loss prepared and forwarded
to the companies, but claimed that they had not been paid
any part of the cost of raising and saving the vessel, that
before the commencement of this suit they demanded payment,
thereof, which was refused, the insurers denying liahbitv
therefor, and that the same remained unpaid.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

The defendants claimed that the payment of the cost of
repairs was made by way of accord and satisfaction of the
plaintiffs' entire claim, and offered in evidence the following
receipts
"81344.42
January 19, 1884.
•RIeceived from the Fire Insurance Association of London,
England, thirteen hundred and forty-four 42 dollars, it being
in full of all claims and demands for loss or damage by fire
which occurred on the 10th and 24th days of November, 1883,
to property insured by policy No. 180,617, Buffalo, New
York, agency, and in consideration of said payment said policy
is hereby cancelled and surrendered to said company, and all
further claims by virtue of said policy forever waived.
"(Signed)
JOHN W WICKHAM, Jr.,
" M.3anagng Owner
"W

B.

COMsToCK,

"per WIcKHAm, Jr."
There was also a receipt endol-sed upon the policy No.
180,617 as follows
"January 19, 1884.
"In consideration of four -1 dollars return premium, the
receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, this policy is cancelled and surrendered to the Fire Insurance Association
(Limited) of England.
"(Signed)
Jom W WIcKirAm, Jr.,
"Hfanagzng Owner
"W B. CO sTocs,
"per WicKHx, Jr."
A similar receipt for $576.18 was given by the plaintiffs to
the defendant, in form precisely like the first (except as to the
number of the policy and the amount), on account of the
second policy issued by the association. Similar receipts, all
of the same date, except two, which were a few days later,
were given to the other companies concerned, all of which

FIRE INSURANCE ASSOCIATION v. WICKHAM.

569

Statement of the Case.

were put in evidence by the defendant. The receipt to the
Mechanics' Fire Insurance Company was expressed to be "in
full satisfaction of all claims and demands upon said company
and "in considerafor loss and damage by fire," etc.,
tion thereof said company is hereby discharged forever from
all further claims by reason of said fire, loss and damage, and
said policy of insurance is hereby assigned, with all claim
thereunder, to said company, and said policy is hereby canThe receipt
celled in full and surrendered to said company"
to the London, Liverpool and Globe Insurance Company was
for a sight draft, "which, when paid, will be in full compromise and payment of all claims and demands upon said
company for loss and damage by fire," etc. The receipts to
the other companies did not differ materially from those given
to the defendant company
The defendant also put in evidence the follow,.ng paper
signed by the plaintiffs, marked Exhibit QQ
"New York, January 19, 1884.
"This is to certify that the loss and damage by fire which
occurred on the 23d day of November, 1883, to the steamer
St. Paul, is this day adjusted for the sum of fifteen thousand
three hundred and sixty-four and -3 dollars ($15,364.78),
payable without discount upon presentation of the policies to
the seyeral companies interested by the assured, and apportioned among the several companies as follows, viz.
Insures

Continental, of NewYork. $7,500 00
London & Liverpool &
6,000 00
Globe.
Fire Insurance Association 3,500 00
7,000 00
Queen's, of England
Fire Ins. Ass'n, 2d policy 1,500 00
Security, of New Haven. 2,500 00
Exchange, of New York. 2,50000
Mechanics', of New York. 2,500 00
2,500 00
German, of Pa.

Pays

$2,880 90
2,304
1,344
2,668
576
960
960
960
960

70-Paid.
42-Paid.
8---Paid.
18-Paid.
30-Will remit.
30-Paid 1, 19,)'84
30-Paid 1, 19, '84
30-Will remit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

Prescott Insurance Co.
2,500 00
Greenwpb, of New York. 2,000 00

960 30-Remitted.
768 24-Paid 1, 19, '84

$40,000 00 $15,364 78

"(Signed)

JOHN W Wic=xAm Jr.,

"W

".Managzng Owner
B. CoMST oCK,

"per JOHN W Wxox i~, Jr.
Oakley,
"John K.
"J. H. Wellman,
"

Committee."

The defendant having rested, the plaintiffs, in rebuttal,
offered evidence tending to show that in January, 1884,
Wickham went to New York, and that on the 18th of January, a meeting of the companies interested in the loss was
held at the board rooms in New York, at which meeting Messrs.
Wellman and Oakley were appointed a committee to confer
with the plaintiffs in regard to such loss. Of this meeting
Wickham had no notice and was not present. That on the
following day Wickham met Wellman and Oakley, and was
notified by them that they were appointed as such committee,
and that the companies were ready and willing to pay the
expenses of making the repairs occasioned by the fire, as set
forth in proofs of loss hereinbefore mentioned.
That Wickham called attention to the claim for raising and
saving the vessel, stating that he expected to get a contribution to such expense from the owners of the cargo of the
vessel upon a general average, and for the sake of settlement
offered to share the balance of such expense with the fire
insurers. in the proportion that the uninsured -interest in the
steamer bore to the amount insured, that the committee replied
that the companies were not liable for such expense, and that
they had no authority whatever to consider the claim for raising and saving the steamer, and thereupon gave to Wickham
the following paper, marked Exhibit PP, stating to him that
the same was a record of the proceedings of the meeting at
which they were appointed such committee, and that their

FIRE INSURANCE ASSOCIATION v. WICKHAM.

571

Statement of the Case.

authority was limited by the terms of the resolution adopted
at such meeting and set forth in said exhibit and that they
could not go beyond it or consider this claim for raising and
saving the vessel even if they were disposed to do so.
The paper referred to is as follows:

"EXHIBIT

PP

"Board Rooms, January 18, 188.
"Meeting of the companies interested in loss of propeller
St. Paul.
Present.
Continental
Fire Insurance Association.

$7,500 00
5,000 00

Queen's.

7,000 00

Exchange.
Mechanics', New York
Greenwich

2,500 00
2,500 00
2,000 00

$26,500 00
"Organized by Mr. Wellman, chairman.
"Coimumcation from John M. Murray, adjuster, at Detroit,
in relation to expenses incurred in saving propeller St. Paul.
"On motion, duly seconded "That the request of the assured to help him out is not
granted, but the companies are recommended to pay the
amount of claim as set forth in the proofs of loss. Carried.
"Meeting adjourned.

"(Signed)

G. W MONTGOMERY.

"On motion, the action of the meeting be referred to a
committee of two for the purpose of conference. with the
owner. Carried.
"Chair appointed Mr. Oakley and Mr. Wellman."
A part of this paper was in the hand1vriting of Wellman.
Plaintiff offered evidence tending to show that the committee
further stated that the companies were satisfied with the adjustment and proofs of loss, and were ready and willing to pay the
cost of making the repairs to the steamer, necessitated directly

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

by the fire, without discount, and would waive any rights they
might have under the policies making the loss payable in sixty
days from the time the proofs were furnished. The plaintiffs

were never requested to compromise or release their claim for
the expense of raising and saving the vessel, nor was the release or compromise of such claim spoken of except by Wickham when he offered to settle, as hereinbefore stated, which
offer was declined by the committee, as above stated, upon
the ground that they had no authority to consider the matter.
Plaintiffs also offered evidence to show that, at such inter
view, Mr. Oakley, in behalf of the Mechanics' Insurance Company, gave to Wickham a check for the amount of the loss
adjusted as aforesaid against the company, being $960.30, and
Wickham then signed the aforesaid receipt for that amount to
the company; and after the receipts were signed and delivered,
the paper, Exhibit QQ, was prepared under the direction of
Oakley and given to Wickham to exhibit to the representatives of other companies, to show the amount of the adjusted
loss which had been apportioned against the companies respectively
The defendant objected to the introduction of this parol
testimony as tending to contradict the receipts and drafts
given in evidence and the certificate of January f9th, Exhibit
QQ, showing the apportionment of the loss to be paid by the
several companies, upon the ground that such evidence was not
admissible in the absence of fraud, misrepresentation and mistake. These objections were overruled by the presiding judge,
and the evidence was received and submitted to the jury
Upon the question of the admissibility of this testimony,
however, there was a difference of opinion between the Circuit
and the District Judges, and the following question was certified for the opinion of this court "On the facts stated in the
foregoing record, was the parol testimony offered in evidence
by the plaintiffs admissible to vary and contradict the certificate of January 19th, Exhibit QQ, and the receipts and drafts
hereinbefore set forth 9"
This testimony having been introduced, the defendant offered
evidence tending to contradict the same, and to show that the

FIRE INSURANCE ASSOCIATION v. WICKHA-M.

573

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

whole matter arising out of the loss was intended to be compromised and settled by what took place between the parties
at the meeting in New York. There was no evidence that the
agreement, Exhibit QQ, or the receipts and discharges executed
by the plaintiffs, were obtained by any fraud or misrepresentation of the defendants or their agents. The amount thus
paid to the plaintiffs upon the settlement in New York was
the exact amount claimed in the proofs of loss, but it" was
paid about fifty-five days before the same was due and payable, as by the terms of all the policies, save one, the amount
of the loss was not payable until sixty days after the proofs
of the loss were furnished to the insurance companies, and
this was not earlier than January 14. In the charge to the
jury, the court instructed them that this payment before the
amount became due was a good consideration for the settlement and discharge of the whole claim, if such settlement
were actually made, and if it were so understood and agreed
by the parties. The defendant claimed that the certificate
and apportionment of January 19, together with the receipts
and drafts, as a matter of law, showed a full settlement of the
entire claim, and an accord and satisfaction thereof. The
plaintiffs claimed that the settlement related solely to the loss
covered by the proofs of loss, and was not intended to, and did
not, embrace the claim for raising the vessel and cargo, and
saving. the same. The question what the parties intended by
said settlement was submitted to the jury under the charge of
-the court, and upon such parol testimony and papers a verdict
was rendered for the plaintiffs for the sum of $2P91.65, and
a judgment for this amount was accordingly entered. A second question was certified, as to whether the defendant was
entitled to a verdict under the facts in said record therein set
forth, -but upon a motion to dismiss, this court held the question to have been improper. 128 U. S. 426.
.Mr C. 1

Walker for plaintiff in error.

There was a good consideration for these receipts, contracts
of cancelment and discharge and accord and satisfaction.
Assuming that the insurance companies were liable for all the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

losses occasioned by fire, such losses were not payable until
sixty days after the filing of proofs of loss in the offices of the
several companies. These proofs were forwaraed from Buffalo
on Saturday, January 12, 1884, and could not have been
received at the offices in New York before Monday, January
14. Most of the payments were made on the 19th of January, five days after such proofs of loss were filed, and fiftyfive days before any payments became due thereon. The
last payments were made January 31, nineteen days after
the filing of such notice, and forty-one days before the payments became due. The payment of the money in advance
of its being due was a good consideration for the discharge of
the entire claim, although the payments were for a much less
sum than was actually due. .Psnnel's Case, 5 Rep. 117,
Brooks v White, 2 Met. 283, S. C. 37 Am. Dec. 95, Smith v
Brown, 3 Hawks; 580, Boyd v Miloats, 75 Iowa, 151.
The plaintiffs, for the purpose of varying and contradicting
the papers thus given in evidence by the defendants, introduced
parol testimony, all of which was objected to by the defendants in the absence of fraud, misrepresentation and mistake.
There is really no conflict of authorities upon the general
rule as to the introduction of parol testimony to affect written
contracts. The doctrine, as very clearly stated by Judge
Story, is as follows "Parol evidence is .not admissible to
contradict, qualify, extend or vary written instruments, and
the interpretation of them must depend upon their own
terms." 2 Story's Eq. § 1531.
Nowhere has this doctrine been more clearly recognized
than in the decisions of this court. In an early case, Chief
Justice Marshall said "It is a general rule, that an agreement in writing .(r an instrument carrying an agreement into
execution, shaF iiot be varied by parol testimony, stating conversations or circumstances anterior to a written instrument."
Bunt v Rousmanibr, 8 Wheat. 174. See also Bank of the
United States v -Dunn, 6 Pet. 51, 56, Brown v Wiley, 20
How 442, 447, United States v. Childs, 12 Wall. 232, 244,
245, Sp)eclht v iHoward, 16 Wall. 564, Burnes v. Scott, 117
U. S. 582; Boffinger v Tuyes, 120 U. S. 198, 205.

FIRE INSURANCE ASSOCIATION v. WICKHAM.

575

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The cases are very numerous in the state courts where the
same doctrine has been clearly stated and enforced. Corse v
Peck, 102 N. Y 513, Brewster v. Potruf, 55 Michigan, 129,
Itighstone v. Burdette, 61 Michigan, 54.
Of course there are exceptions to and qualifications of this
rule. Thus, as stated by Judge Story and Chief Justice Marshall, that in cases of fraud, misrepresentation or duress, this
may be shown by parol testimony for the purpose of showing
the contract to be void and of no effect. So, if a written contract has been executed and delivered, but with a clear and.
distinct .understanding that it was not to have effect until a
certain condition had been performed or until a certain event
had happened, this may be shown by parol. Ware v Allen,
128 U. S.596, Reynolds v. 1?ob?,nson, 110 N. Y 654. These
cases are upon the clear and sensible doctrine that no contract was ever actually made, or had taken effect.
Another clearly recognized exception is, that oral testimony
is admissible to contradict or vary the terms of simple receipts
for money, and this upon the ground that they are informal,
and are not in the nature of contracts, and, as said by Parsons, they are hardly "an instrument at all," and have
little more force than an oral admission of the party receiving. 2 Parsons on Contracts, 555, 2 Whart. Ev. 920, 1064,
Greenleaf's Ev § 305.
If a receipt is connected with a contract, the receipt may
be varied or contradicted by parol, but not the contract. The
authorities upon this subject are very clear.
In the argument in the court below, the counsel for the
plaintiffs insisted, that by the decisions of the State of New
York, a contract or receipt like the one in question can be
contradicted in all its parts. We have examined the New
York cases cited, and we submit that a careful examination
will show that they are in harmony with our position in this
case, and we call attention to them. See Egleston v Kntikerbacker, 6 Barb. 458, 466, Coon v. Znap, 4 Selden, 402; S. C. 59
Am. Dec. 502, Cree2-y v Holly, 14 Wend. 26, Kellogg v Rsohards, 14 Wend. 116, Ryan v Ward, 48 N. Y 204, Smvzd v.
.Holland,61 N. Y 635, De Lavallette v. lfendt, 75 N. Y 579.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

None of the later cases in other States are inconsistent with
the earlier New York cases. Tlisloe v G-raeter, 1 Blackford,
363, Dale v. Evans, 14 Indiana, 288, Alcorn v Joforgan, 77
Indiana, 184, Fay v Gray, 124 Mass. 500, Goss v Ellison,
136 Mass. 503, Brown v Cambridge, 3 Allen, 474, Eansas
City & Olathe Railway v Hicks, 30 Kansas, 288.
There are many cases that hold, where a contract and a
receipt are combined in the same written instrument, that
while the simple receipt may be varied by parol testimony,
the contract connected therewith cannot thus be affected.
-Lowe v Young, 59 Iowa, 364, Hewett v Chiwago, Burlington
&c.Railway, 63 Iowa, 611, Bemws v. Becker, 1 Kansas, 226,
240, Edgerly v -merson, 3 Foster (23 N. H.) 555, 564, S.C.
55 Am. Dec. 207. So in relation to bills of lading and warehouse receipts. Graves v Harwood,9 Barb. 471, 481, O'Bmen
v. Gilchrtst, 34 Maine, 554, S.C. 56 Am. Dec. 676, Stewart v
Phonix Ins. Co., 9 Lea, 104, Smith v Brown, 3 Hawks, 580.
A[Xr F H. Canfield and 3fr Joseph H. Choate for defendants
inerror.
MR. JusrTic

BnowN delivered the opimon of the court.

As we held in this case on the motion to dismiss, (Fire
Insurance Assoctatwn v Ifickham, 128 U. S.426,) that the
second question, was improperly certified and could not be
answered, the only question now presented for decision is the
first, namely "On the facts stated in the foregoing record,
was the parol testimony offered in evidence by the plaintiffs
admissible to vary and contradict the certificate of January
19, Exhibit QQ, and the receipts and drafts hereinbefore set
forth 2 "

We have. no disposition to overrule or qualify in any way
the general and familiar doctrine enforced by this court in
repeated decisions, from the case of Hunt v Rousmanser, 8
Wheat. 174, decided in 1823, to that of Seitz v Brewers' Refrigerating Company, ante, 510, decided at the present term,
that parol testimony is not admissible to vary, contradict, add

FIRE INSURANCE ASSOCIATION v. WICKHAM.

577

Opinion of the Court.

to or qualify the terms of a written instrument. The rule,
however, is subject to numerous qualifications, as well established as the general principle itself, among which are that
such testimony is admissible to show the circumstances under
which the instrument was executed, or that it was in fact
without consideration.
It was not seriously contended in this case that the defendant was not, legally liable upon its policies for the expenses,
clearly incidental to the fire, of raising and saving the vessel,
as well as for the direct injury to the vessel in consequence of
the fire, and if the plaintiffs were induced to settle their claims
for one-half the amount that was due them, and there was no
consideration for the relinquishment of the other half, this
suit will lie for the recovery of the amount. The rule is well
established that where the facts show clearly a certain sum to
be due from one person to another, a release of the entire sum
upon payment of a part is without consideration, and the creditor may still sue and recover the residue. If there be a bona
fide dispute as to the amount due, such dispute may be ther
subject of a compromise and payment of a certain sum as a.
satisfaction of the entire claim, but where the larger sum is.
admitted to be due, or the circumstances of the case show that.
there was no good reason to doubt that it was due, the release
of the whole upon payment of part will not be considered as a
compromise, but will be treated as without consideration and
void. As was said by Chief Justice Waite in United States v
Bostwick, 94 U. S. "53, 67 "Payment by a debtor of a part of
his debt is not a satisfaction of the whole, except it be made
and accepted upon some new consideration " although it was
subsequently held in Baird v United States, 96 U. S. 430,
431, that if the debt be unliquidated and the amount uncertain, this rule does not apply "In such cases the question is,
whether the payment was in fact made and accepted in satisfaction." The authorities upon this point are numerous and
decisive. P-innels Case, 5 Rep. 117, Fitchv Sutton, 5 East,
230, Harrimanv. Harrzman,12 Gray, 341, 343, Redfield v
RHolland Ins. Co., 56 N. Y 354, Byan v Ward, 48 N. Y 204,
.American Bridge Co. v Murphy, 13 Kansas, 35, White v JorvoL.

=i-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

dan, 27 Maine, 370, Bailey v Day, 26 Maine, 88, Weber v
Couch, 134 Mass. 26, lhoakes v Beer, 9 App. Cas. 605.
In this case there were two distinct and separate claims of
similar amount, namely, $15,364.78, one of which was for the
direct loss and damage to the property insured by the fire, and
the other was f~r the incidental cost of raising the propeller
and her cargo. The plaintiffs assumed, upon the face of the
receipts, to settle with the defendant for both of these claims
by the payment of the exact amount of one of- them. In
other words, they assumed to settle for a moiety of their entire claim -a claim the legality and justness of which was so
far beyond dispute that it could hardly fail to. be recognized
by -the agents of the insurance companies who were present at
the meeting in New York. That they intended and supposed
they were making a settlement of the plaintiffs' entire claim
against them is probably true. But, aside from the parol testimony given by-Wickham of the conversation at the meeting,,
the admissibility of which is the question m dispute, there was
some evidence tending to show that the plaintiff Wickham
may have supposed that he was settling only for the direct
loss by the fire in the agreement for the survey or appraisement of the damages signed by both parties, which provided
that it should not "apply to or cover any question that may
arise for saving boat and cargo." There were also other circumstances tending to show that the agents of the companies
might. have known that Wickham supposed he was settling
only for the direct loss. First, in the letter of Allen, the adjuster, who, in transmitting proofs of loss to the various companies, stated that "the assured will make further claims for
expenses of raising the propeller, and is now preparing the
statement of such expenses to submit with his subsequent
claim." And secondly, in the memorandum of the meeting of
the companies, January 18, Exhibit PP, in which, after reading
a communication from an adjuster at Detroit in relation to
the salvage expenses, a motion was carried "that the request
of the assured to help him out is not granted, but the companies are recommended to pay the amount of claim as set
forth in the proofs of loss." These items .of testimony are m-

FIRE INSURANCE ASSOCIATION v. WICKHAM.

579

Opinion' of the Court.

consistent with the idea that the agents of the companies did
not know of the further claim, and are also pertinent upon the
question whether Wickham understood that he was settling
that claim.
(1) But assuming that the receipts upon their face show a
complete settlement of the entire claim for one-half the total
amount, what was the consideration for the release of the
-other half 9 The only one that is put forward for that purpose
as that payment was made five days after proofs of loss were
furnished, or fifty-five days before anything was actually due
by the terms of the policy That prepayment of part of a
claim may be a good consideration for the release of the residue is not disputed, but it is subject to the qualification that
nothing can be treated as a consideration that is not intended
-as such by the parties. Thus in Philpot v Grunznger, 14 Wall.
570, 577, it is -stated that "nothing is consideration that is not
regarded as such by both parties." To constitute a valid agreement there must be a meeting of minds upon every feature and
element of such agreement, of which the consideration is one.
The mere presence of some incident to a contract which might
under certain circumstances be uph3ld as a consideration for a
promise, does not necessarily make it the consideration for the
promise in that contract. To give it that effect it must have
been offered by one party and accepted by the other as one elewfubrhead, 16 Penn.
ment of the contract. In Eilpatrwk v
St. 117, 126, it was said that "consideration, like every other
part of a contract, must be the result of agreement. The parties must understand and be influenced to the particular action
by something of value or convenience and inconvenience recognized by all of them as the moving cause. That which is a mere
fortuitous, result _flowig accidentally from an arrangement,
but in no degree prompting the actors to it, is not to be esteemed
a legal consideration." See also 1 Addison on Oontracts, 15,
EMI. v Clark. 110 Mass. 389. Now evidence ot what took
place at the meeting, if admissible for no other purpose, was
competent as bearing upon the question whether the prepayment was mentioned or treated as an inducement or consideration foithe release of the residue of the claim. It certainly

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

was not so stated in the defendant's plea, which set forth that
the defendant "paid to said plaintiffs a valuable consideration,
to wit, the sum of $1920.60, in full accord and satisfaction,
for losses and damages by fire, at the several
etc.,
which
times in said plaintiffs' declaration set forth,
valuable consideration or sum of money, so paid as aforesaid,
was then and Ahere accepted and received by said plaintiffs of
and from said defendant in full payment, satisfaction, release
and
and discharge of the said two policies of insurance,
in consideration of said money so paid and received as aforesaid said plaintiffs then and there released in writing the said
defendant," etc. Therb is no mention here of the prepayment of this sum as a consideration for the release of the residue. The oral testimony upon this point was conflicting; the
plaintiffs swearing that the committee stated that the companies were ready and willing to pay the cost of making repairs,
and would waive any right they might have under the clause
making the loss payable in sixty days from the time the proofs
were furnished. There is no doubt that this right to delay
payment was a stipulation which the insurer could waive at
his option, -Insurance Company v -Yorton, 96 U. S. 234, 240,
and if, as the plaintiffs stated, the insurance companies did
exercise this option, and agree to waive their right to the sixty
days, the prepayment cannot be regarded as a consideration to
support the alleged compromise. It is afamiliar doctrine that
parol evidence is competent to show a want of consideration.
1 Greenl. Ev. sees. 284, 304.
The court charged the jury upon this point that the payment of the policy fifty-five days in advance of the time when
the same would become due, without discount for interest,
was, by itself, a sufficient consideration for waiving the plaintiffs' further claim in the policies, if it-was understood as such.
The question was a proper one for the jury to pass upon,
the charge was sufficiently favorable to the defendant, and
their conclusion, whether correct or not, cannot be the subject
of review here.
(2) Aside from this, however, the circumstances attending
the execution of a receipt in full of all demands may be given

FIRE INSURANCE ASSOCIATION v. WICKHAM.

581

Opinion of the Court.

in evidence to show that by mistake it was made to express
more than intended, and that the credito" had in fact claims
that were not included. Thus in Simons v Johnson, 3 B. &
Ad. 175, which was an action of covenant, defendant pleaded
a release, which recited that various disputes were existing between the parties, and that actions had been brought against
each other which were still pending, but that it had been
agreed between them, that, in order to put an end thereto,
the defendant should pay the plaintiff £150, and that each
should release the other from all actions, causes of action and
elaims brought by him, or which he had against the other,
and the instrument then proceeded to release "all claims,
demands, actions whatsoever." It was held that parol evldence was admissible to show that the claim upon the covenant was not intended to be included in the release, Littledale,
J., saying" "There can be no doubt that the matter contemplated in this release was t ie actions there referred to, and
parol evidence was admissible to show that the subject matter
of the present action was not involved in them." Other cases
to the same effect are Lawrence v. Schuylkill NSawgation Co.,
4 Wash. 0. 0. 562; .Payler v Homersham, 4 M. & S. 423,
Jackson v Stackhouse, .1 Cowen, 122, G,umley v Webb, 44
Missouri, 444, Prce v Treat, 29 Nebraska, 536, St. Louts,
Wichita &c. Railroadv Damns, 35 .Kansas, 464.
The appraisement, the letter of Allen transmitting the
proofs of loss and the memorandum of the meeting of the
underwriters' agents are all corroborative of the testimony of
the plaintiffs that the committee replied to Wickham, when
he asked them for a contribution for the expenses "of raising
and saving the vessel, that the companies were not liable for
such expenses, and that they had no authority whatever for
considering the claim for raising and saving the steamer. If
this -be true, it requires no argument to show that the claim
for salvage service was not intended to be included in the
receipts.
There is no doubt that when a receipt also embodies a contract the rule applicable to contracts obtains, and parol evidence is inadmissible to vary or contradict it. But the only

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

clause in these receipts which can possibly be claimed to partake of the nature of a contract is that providing for a cancelThere was a similar
lation and surrender of the policy
provision endorsed on the policies. These, however, were
inserted in pursuance of a clause in the policy to the effect
that the insurance might be terminated at any time, at the
option of the company, upon giving notice to the insured,.
and that in such case he should be entitled to claim a ratable
proportion of the premium for the unexpired term for which
the policy was to run. The court instructed the jury correctly
upon this point, that if they found that the policies were surrendered in consideration of the unearned premiums stated in
the receipts, endorsed on the policies, the surrender was no
defence, and while it had a tendency to show the plaintiffs'
relinquishment of all their rights under the policy, it was not.
conclusive, if the jury found that it was made in consideration
of the unearned premiums.
Theret was nothing in the nature of a contract on plaintiffse
part in the certificate of settlement, Exhibit QQ, it was a.
mere admission that the. loss and. damage by fire had been
adjusted at a certain sum, and should be construed in connec
tion with the submission of December 15, which showed that.
it did not apply to any question that might arise for saving
boat and cargo.
The question certified should, therefore, be answered in the
affirmative, and as this was the opinion of the presiding judge,
and the case was submitted to the jury upon that theory, the
judgment of the court below will be
Aflrmed.

MR. JusTicE BRADLEY and MR. JUSTICE GRAY did not hear
the argument nor take part in the decision of this case.

