KNEELAND v. LUCE.
Syllabus.

Summing up this matter, it appears that this alleged rescission by consent was made five or six years after the settlement
and two years after McLean had been fully informed of all
the circumstances which justified a rescission, and after he,
with full kniowledge, had ratified and affirmed it. Under
those circumstances, though binding upon Ruggles W Clapp,
the party consenting thereto, it was not binding upon others
who did not consent, and especially not on Henry Clapp, the
owner of the full equitable title, who"neither knew of nor consented to this rescission. After the lien had -once been discharged, under such circumstances that it was beyond the
recall of the mortgagee, no act or consent of Ruggles W
Clapp, the mortgagor, could renew the incumbrance upon the
lands. Henry Clapp's full equitable title was, therefore, not
disturbed or incumbered by this alleged voluntary rescission.
Our conclusion, therefore, is that the decree of the Circuit
Court was right and must be affirmed. It may also be a question whether the delay and laches in bringing this suit would
not bar a recovery, but we do not care to enter into any consideration of this question, as the equity of the matter we have
considered is clear.
Decree affl2-med.
The CHIEF JUsTICE, MR. JUSTICE B3RADLEY and MR. JUSTICE
GRAY did not hear the argument nor take part in the decision
of this case.

KNEELAND v. LUCE.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
No. 38. Argued October 16,19,1891.-Decided November 2,1891.

In a suit in equity for the foreclosure of a railroad mortgage this court
holds, on appeal by the purchaser at the foreclosure sale from a decree
declaring the claim of an intervenor to be a lien upon thfe property, that
the record is too meagre for.it to determine whether there was any error
in the decree.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of, the Court.
A stipulation in this case that "testimony heretofore taken and filed in
this cause" "maybe used many future litigation touching" the subject
of the controversy m the suit is held not to import into the suit testimony from other records in this court; it not appearing by this record
that such testimony was used by the appellant m the hearing below, or
that the appellees were parties to the stipulation.

IN

EQUrry.

The case is stated in the opinion.

Jkr John, X. Butler and Mr Robert G Ingersoll for appellant.

Mr Charles Prattfor appellees.
MR. JUSTICEi

BnE.wR delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a decree in favor of Newton and
Luce, as intervenors in the foreclosure case of The Central
Trust Company of _New York and others v The Toledo,
-Delphos and Burlington Railroad Company and others, entered in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Indiana, Kneeland, the appellant, being the purchaser
at the foreclosure sale.
The facts disclosed by the record (and by this record the
case must be determined) are these The foreclosure decree
was entered on November 12, 1885. On January 8, 1886, intervenors filed in the office of the clerk of the Circuit Court
their claim, in the shape of a decree entered December 12,
1885, by the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District of Ohio, in a case entitled The Central Trust
Company of New York and others v The Toledo, De4phos and
Burlington Railroad Company and others, which decree finds
that there is due to intervenors the sum of eight thousand and
twenty-eight dollars anu ninety-six cents, for land sold to the
railroad company, and which amount thus found to be due is
a lien upon the property mortgaged by the railroad company
prior to that mortgage. This claim, with many others, was
referred to masters, who reported in favor of its allowance
and priority, which report was approved by the court and a
decree entered accordingly, from which decree this appeal has
been taken.

KNEELAND v. LUCE.
Opinion of the Court.

It appears from the statements of counsel, and impliedly
from the record, that the principal foreclosure proceedings
were had in the Indiana court, but that ancillary proceedings
were had in the Circuit Court of the United States for'the
Northern District of Ohio, and in these ancillary proceedings
the decree of December 12, 1885, was entered.
Without noticing other questions which were discussed by
counsel, it is enough to say that this record is too meagre for
us to determine whether there was any error in this decree.
The testimony taken before the masters is not preserved, nor
do we find even the final report of the masters made March
10, 1887, and upon which the decree was entered. While two
prior reports of the masters, made separately, are partially
preserved in the record, yet in them is simply a reference to
the claim of intervenors, and a statement that it is based upon
the decree rendered in the Ohio-court. As the final report is
omitted, we know not what showing of facts it contained,
and as the testimony presented to the masters for consideration and afterward to the court is not preserved, how can it
be adjudged that there was any error in the decree 2 So far
as respects the decree of December 12, 1885, in the Ohio court,
it discloses a prima face claim at least in favor of the intervenors, for while it finds that no deed had been delivered, it
also finds that the railroad compaby purchased and held the
land under a contract set forth in paragraph three. of" the answer. But the answer is not in the record, nor that contract;
so we know nothing of its terms or what liabilities it cast
upon the railroad company The decree also finds that the
property thus purchased and held by the railroad company
was a part of. that covered by the mortgage being foreclosed,
and that such mortgage was a lien on the property, but a lien
subordinate to the claim of -intervenors. And it further finds,
that the lands so purchased and held were a part of the right
of way of the railroad company As the final decree of foreclosure and sale entered in the Indiana court directed a sale of
the entire right of way, tlese lands were apparently included
in the property purchased by Kneeland. So far then as-the
facts are disclosed by this record, the ruling of the -Circuit

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

Court was right in directing the payment of the balance due
on the purchase bf these lands.
Counsel for appellant, however, referred us to the records in
other cases which have come to this court, and insisted that
by the facts appearing in them it isclear that the intervenors
were not entitled to priority Itis enough to say that those
facts are not before us. It is true, that in this record after
the entry of the final decree of foreclosure, of November 12,
1885, there is found this stipulation. "It is hereby stipulated that the testimony heretofore taken and filed in this
cause, under the reference to A. J Ricks, special master,
may be used in any future litigation touching Toledo terminal
property, with the same effect as though originally taken
therein, each party to such future litigation reserving the
-rightto take additional testimony if so advised, and the purchaser at foreclosure sale shall take subject to this provision,
and shall be deemed to have assented thereto." But that
stipulation does not bring into this record all the testimony
referred to, and which, as counsel say, may be found in the
other records. What part of such testimony was used in the
hearing of this intervention is not disclosed, nor whether any
additional testimony was taken. The stipulation only gives
permission to use such testimony But how do we know that
any of it was used 2 But, further, it is signed by no one, and
m terms names no one, and so could of course be binding only
upon the parties to the record, and those who in fact assented
to it. While Luce and Newton, the intervenors, were named
in the amended bill of complaint in the Indiana court as parties
defendant, there is nothing to show that they were ever served
with process, or ever appeared or answered. 'More than that,
by the final decree of foreclosure, entered November 12, 1885,
Luce and Newton, with others, were dismissed from the case
as parties defendant. So, summing this up, there is nothing
to show that Luce and Newton were ever in fact parties to the
litigation in the Indiana court. It appears affirmatively that
if they ever were served with process or appeared, they were
dismissed before this stipulation was entered into, and that
they did not sign it. Hence, it was not binding upon them,

CROSBY VALVE CO. v. SAFETY VALVF! CO.

441

Syllabus.

nor could it be invoked as against them by Kneeland, the purchaser. The case then is one of a claim apparently good, sustained by the decree of the trial court, and brought here for
review without any of the ,testimony introduced in the trial
court, and upon which its decree was based. Of course on
such a record no error can be adjudged.
The decree is
Affirmed.
The

CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY and MR. JUSTICE
did not hear the argument nor take part in the decision
of this case.
GRAY

CROSBY STEAM GAGE & VALVE COMPANY v.
CONSOLIDATED SAFETY VALVE COMPANY
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 999.

STATES FOR

Argued October 22. 1891. - Decided November 2, 1891.

On an accounting as to profits and damages, on a bill for the infringement
of letters patent No. 58,294, granted to George W Richardson, September 25, 1866, for an improvement in steam safety-valves, the Circuit
Court, confirming the report of the master, allowed to the plaintiff the
entire profit made by the defendant from making and selling safety-valves
containing the patented improvement, and this court affirmed the decree,
on the ground that the entire commercial value of the defendant's valves
was to be attributed to the patented improvement of Richardson.
It was held that the plaintiffs valves of commerce all of them contained
the improvements covered by the patent of Richardson, and that, as tpe
master had reported no damages, in addition to profits, the amount f
profits could not be affected by the question whether the plaintiff did
or did not use the patented invention.
It was proper not to make any allowance to the defendant for the value of
improvements covered by subsequent patents owned and used by the
defendant.
It was also proper not to allow to the defendant for valves made by the
defendant and destroyed by it before sale, or after a sale and in exchange
for other valves, which did not appear in the account on either side.
It was also proper not to allow a credit for the destroyed valves against thp
profits realized by the defendant on other valves.
Interest from the date of the master's report was properly allowed on the
amount of profits reported by the master and decreed by the court.

