REYNOLDS v. BURNS.
Statement of the Case.

REYNOLDS v. BURNS.
APPEAL

FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 364. Submitted April 30, 1891.-Decided May 25,1891.

This case is dismissed by the court because the amount involved is not sufficient to give it jurisdiction.

THIS was a bill originally filed by the appellants to enjoin
the execution and enforcement of a judgment in ejectment,
wherein Thomas Burns and Martha B. Burns were plaintiffs,
and Daniel Reynolds, Levi H. Springer, Samuel F Halley,
Hiliary H. Halley, Watt C. Halley and Richard Hurt were
defendants.
It appeared from the bill and exhibits that on June 22,
1859, one John J Bowie, of Chicot County, Arkansas, died,
leaving a will, in which, after bequeathing $1000 to his
daughter, Martha B. Leatherman (subsequently Martha B.
Burns), in full of her share of the estate, he left the rest to be
equally divided between his wife, America, and their two sons,
John R. and James W Bowie, appointing his wife sole executrix, with a further provision that upon the deati of the wife
her estate should be equally divided between the three children, Martha, John and James. Both sons died after the
death of the father and before the estate had been administered or divided. The widow took out letters testamentary
upon the estate, and proceeded to administer the same to a
final settlement in the probate court, upon which settlement
there was adjudged to be a balance due her of 86234.41. It
further appeared that on the 19th of November 1866, the
said America A. Bowie, executrix, executed to Zachariah and
Martha B. Leatherman, his wife, a deed in which, after stating the above facts and her wish "to retire from the management and control of said estate, and to provide for her comfort
and quiet in her declining years," she conveyed all her right

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

in the estate, both by virtue of the will and by virtue of her

being the mother and heir of her sons, John and James, as
well as all her claim upon such estate for the balance found to
be due her by the probate court in the final settlement of such
estate, in consideration of certain live stock belonging to such
estate, and a covenant on the part of Zachariah Leatherman
to pay her an annuity of $400 per year during her life, the
grantor retaining a lien upon all the estate for the payment
of such annuity, with an express reservation that if the
grantee should fail to make payment of any instalment of
such annuity the grantor should have power and authority,
upon giving thirty days' notice, to sell enough of such real
estate to satisfy such of said instalments.as should be due and
unpaid, Leatherman further covenanting that the grantor
was to have a home at his house during her life, -or that he
should pay her $200 in addition to the annuity in case he
should sell his present home and the grantor should not wish
to remove with him) and to take care of and provide for her
during her life, with a further covenant that the grantees
should take immediate possession of all of such estate and
have full and complete control of the same.
The bill further averred that at the time of the execution of
said deed the only assets remaining unadministered consisted
of the interest of such estate in certain lands, that all persons
interested in the estate were dead except Mrs. Bowie and her
daughter Martha, that besides her life interest in the property, Mrs. Bowie had said judgment in the probate court for
$6234.41, "for which all the said property, then not worth
$6000, was under the law primarily liable and subject to be
sold," to pay such balance, that she was then in possession of
such property and entitled to retain possession thereof until
the estate was finally closed and her judgment paid, so far as
the assets of the estate extended, that she also had an interest
as heir of her sons in certain of the lands; that the said
Martha had no real or equitable interest of value in such
lands, as the same were not worth enough to pay the amount
then due her mother, and she could have no interest, under
the will or otherwise, except her legacy, which she had re-

REYNOLDS v. BURNS.
Statement of the Case.

ceived, that she was the owner of a mere naked legal title,
subject to a life interest in one-third part; that possession was
delivered under the aforesaid deed to Martha and her husband,
who acquired the possession and thus acquired a good title to
what she had before held a mere naked legal title, that could
have been extinguished by a sale to pay such judgment in
favor of her mother, that after the said Martha and her husband entered into possession of said property under their purchase, they or she alone, thereafter, and prior to May 1, 1876,
the date of the sale to these plaintiffs, sold and transferred to
various parties parts of the land so acquired, that the said
Martha and her husband failed to pay the annuity and provide
a home for Mrs Bowie as arranged for in said deed, and in
March, 1876, there then being due and unpaid on such annuity
over $1300, Mrs. Bowie, under the authority contained in said,
deed, advertised that she would sell such'lands, or so much
thereof as would be necessary to pay said annuity, and at sach
sale the plaintiffs "each purchased certain tracts or parts of
said lands, and paid for the same the full value thereof for a.
good title thereto, under the impression and belief that by
such purchase they acquired a good title to so much of said
lands," the said Reynolds purchasing 385 acres for $1180;
Springer purchasing 60 acres for $40.50, and the defendant
Halley 58 acres for $71, each of the plaintiffs receiving a deed,
for the parts purchased by them from Mrs. Bowie under the
power contained in the said deed to the Leathermans, and
each entered into possession, that the proceeds of such sale
paid by the plaintiffs went to the support of Mrs. Bowie,
that after this money had been expended to pay the annuity
contracted to be paid by the said Martha, she sought, by
ejectment, to recover back the lands to which she could in no
event be equitably entitled except upon payment of the money
due her mother, bringing suit upon her naked legal title,-when
in fact she had no equitable or just title to the same, and
could have none except after the payment of the debts and
expenses of administration, and that to enforce such judgment would in effect make these plaintiffs support Mrs. Bowie
and give to Martha the "property which was originally in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

hands of Mrs. Bowie for her support, and only conveyed by
her upon the promise of support, as the consideration for such
conveyance. Wherefore plaintiffs prayed an injunction against
the execution and enforcement of such judgment in ejectment.
Defendants interposed a general demurrer to the bill, which
was sustained and the bill dismissed. Plaintiffs appealed to
this court.
.Xr F W Compton for appellants.
.A&
X
Y .tI. Rose and .Xr G B. Rose for appellees.
MR. JusTIcE BRowr, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The object of this bill is to enjoin the enforcement of a
judgment iu ejectment upon the ground that, while the plaintiffs in such judgment held the legal title to the lands in dispute, the equitable title was in the defendants, the plaintiffs in
this bill. Curtly stated, the.facts axe, that America A. Bowie,
the widow and executrix of her husband, John W Bowie, who
was also heir-at-law to her two sons, and a creditor of the
estate of her husband to the amount of $6234.41, executed a
deed of her interest in his estate to her daughter, Martha B.
Leatherman, (now Burns,) upon condition that the grantee
should pay her an annuity of $400 per year, and provide her
with a home during her life, and with a reservation of power
to sell, upon thirty days' notice, in case of failure to perform
the condition. The grantee did not pay the annuity or perform her covenants, and -Mrs. Bowie, without taking any steps
to obtain the annulment of the deed, or the reconveyance of
the property, assumed to sell under the power contained in the
deed, and did sell at public auction to the plaintiff Reynolds
one parcel, for $1180, to the plaintiff Springer, another, for
$40.50; to the plaintiff Halley, another, for $71, all of whom
received their deeds and entered into. possession. Mrs. Burns
and her husband thereupon brought ejectment and obtained
judgment, to enjoin which this bill was filed.

DENNY v. PIRONI.
Statement of the Case.

From this brief statement of facts it is entirely clear that
this court has no jurisdiction of the appeal. There is no allegation or proof of the value of the property recovered in the
ejeetment suit, the only showing being that the aggregate
amount paid by the three plaintiffs for their parcels was
$1291.50. The only allegation of value is that the whole
estate was "not worth $6000," though how much less it was
worth is not stated. It further appears that plaintiffs' deeds
did not cover the whole of such estate, and that the amount
due and unpaid upon the annuity at the time these sales were
made was about $1300.
Under no possible theory can the case be said to involve the
amount exceeding $5000 requisite to give this .court jurisdiction, and the appeal must therefore be
.Dwmr ssed.

DENNY v. PIRONI.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 1661. Submitted April 2T, 1891.-Decided May 25, 1891.
When the pleadings in an action in a Circuit Court of the United States fail
t6".show averments of diverse citizenship necessary to give the court
jurisdiction, the fault cannot be cured by making such an averment in
a remittitur by the plaintiff of a portion of the judgment.
While it is not necessary that the essential facts, necessary to give a Circuit Court jurisdiction on the ground of diverse citizenship should be
averred in the pleadings, they must appear in such papers as properly
constitute the record on which judgment is entered, and not in averments
which are improperly and surreptitiously introduced into the record fpr
the purpose of healing a defect in this particular.
The cases on this subject reviewed.

THIS was a writ of error sued out under the act of February
25, 1889,.25 Stat. 693, c. 236, allowing a writ of error in all
cases involving the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court.
The action. was brought by the defendants in error against

