HENDERSON BRIDGE CO. v. HENDERSON CITY.

679

Opinion of the Court.

BHENDERSONV BRIDGE OOMPANY v. HENDERSOIN
CITY
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS
No. 1007.

OF THE STATE

Rubmitted November 23,1891.-

OF KENTUCKY.

Decided December 7,1891.

In a suit brought in a state court of Kentucky by the city of Henderson
against the Henderson Bridge Company, to recover for taxes assessed by
the city on the bridge of the company, which spanned the Ohio River at
the city, the Court of Appeals of the State held that the city, as a taxing
district, could tax the property of the company, and that, under an ordinance of the city, accepted by the company, the city acquired a contract
right to tax the bridge to low-water mark on the Indiana shore, it being
within the city limits, in consideration of rights and privileges granted
to the company by the ordinance. On a motion to dismiss a writ of
error from this court, sued out by the company Held, that although it
was clained in the pleadings, by the company, that the taxing ordinance
impaired the obligation of a prior contract with the company, yet as the
decision of the Court of Appeals was based wholly on the ground that
the proper interpretation of the ordinance first above referred to was
that the company voluntarily agreed that the bridge should be liable to
taxation, and that did not involve a Federal question, and was broad
enough to dispose of the case, without reference to any Federal question,
and this court could not review the construction which was given by the
state court to the ordinance, as a contract, in view of the constitution
and laws of Kentucky the writ of error must be dismissed.
Held, also, that the taxation of the bridge was not a regulation of commerce among the States, or the taxation of any agency of the Federal
government.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

XM John G Carlidle (with whom were Hr John Z. -Dorsey, .fA& John Young Brown and Xr Montgamery -Merritton
the brief) for the motion to dismiss.
.MT William Zindsay opposing.
MR. JUSTiCE BLATOCFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action, brought in the Henderson Circuit Court
of Kentucky, by the city of lenderson, Kentucky, against

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

the Henderson Bridge Company, a Kentucky corporation, to
recoVer for taxes assessed by the city against the company,
for the years 1885, 1886 and 1887, under the authority of
various acts of the legislature of Kentucky
In the petition of the plaintiff, the taxes for 1886 and 1887
are alleged to have been assessed to pay the annual expenses of
the city government, the annual expenses of the public schools,
interest on railroad aid bonds, interest on school bonds, interest
-on water works bonds and interest on bonds issued for city
'purposes. The amount claimed for the years 1886' and 1887,
for taxes and penalty, is in the aggregate $44,320, with
interest. The petition alleges that under an act of the general
assembly of Kentucky, approved February 9, 1872, the bridge
company was incorporated and authorized to build a bridge
across the Ohio River within the limits of the city of Henderson, that that act lay dormant until September 21, 1880,
when the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company got
control of said charter, and a reorganization was effected thereunder; and that the common council of the city of Henderson
passed an ordinance, which was accepted in writing by the
bridge company on the 11th of February, 182, a copy of
which ordinance is set forth in the margin.'
1 An ordinance granting the Henderson Bridge Company certain rights and

privileges within the corporate limits of the city of Henderson.
Be it ordained by the common council oc the city of Henderson, Kent'ySEC. 1. That the Henderson Bridge Company organized under the act
of the general assembly of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, approved
February 9, 1872, be, and they are hereby granted the right to construct
on or over the centre of Fourth street in the city of Henderson, and of the
line thereof extended to low-water mark on the Indiana side of the Ohio
River, such- approaclies, aveilues, piers, trestles, abutments, toll-houses and
other appurtenances necessary in the erection of, and for the business of, a
bridge over the Ohio River, from a point in the city of Henderson to some
convenient point on the Indiana side of said river, and for such purposes
the use of said Fourth street is hereby granted, subject to the terms and
conditions hereinafter expressed.
SECT. 2. That there be, and is hereby granted to said bridge Co. the
right to use the space between Water street in said city and low-water
mark m the Ohio R., extending 100 feet below the centre of Fourth street
extended, and three hundred feet above the centre of s'd street extended to

HENDERSON BRIDGE CO. v. HENDERSON CITY.

681

Opinion of the Court.

The petition alleges that, by an act of the general assembly
of Kentucky, approved February 11, 1867, incorporating the
the Ohio River, for any purpose required by said company, that said company may erect, or authorize, or cause to be erected, grain elevators within
said space above high-water mark, and may construct therefrom to the
river such apparatus and machinery as ma;3 be necessary to convey grain
from boats to such elevators and may have the use of said space for the
landing of boats laden with freight for such elevators, and construct floatng docks, or use wharf-boats within such space for the accommodation of
such boats, and the conduct of the business of such bridge and of the said
elevators free of wharfage, subject to the terms and conditions hereinafter
expressed.
SiEcT. 3. That each and all of the rights and privileges herein granted to
the said company, their successors or assigns, are on the following terms
and conditions, to wit.
1st. That the approach to said bridge on Fourth street shall be of sufficient elevation to admit the passage of all vehicles underneath at points
where other streets cross or intersect said Fourth street, and shall be so
constructed as to admit the passage of all vehicles on said street as far
back as the elevation of said bridge will admit of, except as the same may
be obstructed by the necessary supports of such approach, which supports
shall be iron trestles or masonry piers.
2d. That all or any damage done to private property, by reason of any
privileges granted to said company, shall be paid by said bridge company,
and said company shall pay to any owner of private property damaged by
reason of any grant herein, any judgment that may be rendered against the
city of Henderson on account thereof, and shall hold said city harmless
from any loss or damage by reason of injury tb private property bordering
on said street caused by the erection of such bridge and its approaches.
3d. That any track laid in the space between Water street and low-water
mark of the Ohio River mentioned in the second section of this ordinance,
or any improvements made thereon, shall be so made as not to interfere
with the free use of such space by the public further than the nature of
such works and their convenience for the said uses may absolutely require.
4th. That any such elevator, other buildings -and appurtenances of said
bridge, shall be kept above high-water mark and so as not to obstruct the
current of the river, and nothing herein shall be construed to prevent the
said city from paving or otherwise improving that part of the river front
herein mentioned, or from charging and collecting wharfage from boats or
other craft landing thereat, except as herein provided in favor of said
bridge company.
5th. That in the event said city shall determine to grade and pave the
river front mentioned between the line of high-water mark and the line of
low-water mark, the said 'company shall so change any tracks they may
have laid, or fix any improvements they may have made, to conform to and

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

city of HTenderson, its northwestern boundary was fixed at.
low-water mark on the Indiana side of the Ohio River, and.
that the bridge was assessed for taxation to such low-water
mark, like other property of the city, and it claims a lien upon
the bridge, from the beginning of its approach at Main Street
m -the eity, to low-water mark on the. Indiana side of the river,
for the taxes and the penalty thereon, and, in addition to a judgment against the. bridge company for said -taxes and penalty, it
prays for the enforcement of .the lien and a sale to pay the debt,
with interest and costs, and the appointment of a receiver.
The aiiswer of the- bridge company to the petition alleges
that the whole of the bridge between the Kentucky shore
and the Indiana shore is over the water of the Obio River,
except the .piers or pillars which support the bridge and which
are built in, and rest upon, the bed of the river, that the
river is a navgable stream, and the entire jurisdiction over it
is vested in Congress. and the courts of the United -States, and
the bridge is used only to transport persons. and freight in
railroad cars between the States of Indiana and Kentucky,
and the plaintiff has no jurisdiction over-the river Qr any part
with such grade-as near as practicable, and the said company shall so arrange said' tracks and improvements, in such event, as to make the least.
possible obstruction to the-free passage of- vehicles and to such otlher uses
for which said space may .be designed.
SECT. 4.- That nothing herein shall be construed as waiving the right of
the city ot Henderson to levy and collect taxes on the approaches to said
bridge, or any building erected by said bridge company within the corporate
limits of said city, the.bridge itself and alr appurtenances thereto within
the limits of-said city.
SECT. 5. That before any of the rights or privileges hereinbefore granted
shall inure to the benefit of, or vest in, the Henderson Bridge Company,
said company shall, by proper authority, append to a certified copy of this
ordinance their acceptance of, and agreement to abide by and faithfully
keep,. the terms and conditions of this ordinance, which acceptance and
agreement shall be acknowledged by the proper authority of said company
as provided in case of a deed under the laws of Kent'y, and delivered to,
the clerk of the Henderson city council.
SEct. 6. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force after the
same have been published as approved by law, and after the terms and conditions thereof shall have been accepted and acknowledged as herein
provided.

HENDERSON BRIDGE CO. v.

EN

RSON CITY.

683

Opinion of the Court.

thereof, or over the bridge or the persons or freight transported thereon, except in the matter of executing writs from
the police authorities.of the city, and that for the plaintiff to
assume to tax that part of the bridge would violate the Constitution of the United States, the laws of Congress and the
rights of the bridge company in the premises. The answer
also sets up that the bridge derives no benefit or protection
from the government of the city, and that to subject the
bridge company's property to the payment of the claim made,
would be to take private property for public use -without compensation, and to violate article 5 of the amendments to the
Constitution of the United States, and the constitution and
laws of Kentucky It is also averred in the answer.that, when
the bridge company constructed the bridge, it was .the settled
law of Kentucky, as decided by its Court of Appeals in Louw'vile Brzdge Co. v City of Louisville, 81 Kentucky, 189, that
so much of -the company's bridge and propety as was erected
and stood across the Ohio River was not liable to municipal
or city taxation, and that, relying on the law of Kentucky as
beng so settled; the bridge company, on the 27th of February,
1884, entered into a written contract with the Louisville and
Nashville Railroad Company for tho maintenance and operation of the bridge.
A reply was put in to that answer, and -subsequently the
,Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company was mada-a party
defendant, and filed a petition, which was ordered to be faken'
as its -answer to. the plaintiff's petition. It allege& that .by
such contract with .the bridge company, the railroad company
was to maintain and operate the bridge *anda connecting.railroad bn the Indiana side of the river, in considerationl that the
bridge company would pay to it yearly $10,000, to be expended in maintenance and repair, and would also pay all taxes
legally imposed upon the track and bridge structure. It was
further alleged that to grant the plaintiff the relief prayed for,
or any part thereof, would be a direct impairment of theobligation of the contract between the railroad company and
the bridge company, and would violate the right- of the railroad company .,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

A rejoinder was put in to the reply, joining issue, and the
case was heard by the court upon the pleadings and evidence.
The court dismissed the petition so far.as regarded the taxes
claimed for 1885, but as to the years 1886 and 1887 adjudged
that the bridge and the approach thereto were subject to taxation for all the purposes and for the amounts claimed in the
petition, and that the plaintiff had a lien upon the bridge
structure and masonry piers, and the approach thereto, situated
within the boundary of the city, extending to low-water mark
on the Indiana side of the Ohio River, for $17,384 for the year
1886, and $15,810 for the year 1887, with interest on those
sums from the date of the judgment, July 18, 1888, and for
costs.
The Circuit Court, in its opinion, held that as the legislature
had fixed the limits of the city at low-water mark on the
Indiana shore, and had authorized her to tax all property in
the city limits which was subject to taxation by the State, the
taxable boundary was coextensive with the statutory boundary, that in Loutsville Brzdge Co. v City of Louisville, 81
Kentucky, 189, it was not decided that it was per se unconstitutional for the legislature to authorize cities to tax bridges
which crossed the Ohio River, that all that was decided in
that case was that the legislature did not intend to embrace
the bridge in that case as subject to city taxation, that in
several cases the Court of Appeals of Kentucky had relieved
parties from the payment of taxes on agricultural land, where
the city limits had been extended without the consent of the
owner of the land, but that, in the present case, the bridge
company had voluntarily placed its property within the legally
established limits of the city, and ought to pay the taxes
assessed. Nothing involving a Federal question was considered
or decided by the court.
The bridge company and the railroad company appealed to
the Court of Appeals, as did also the plaintiff. In June, 1890,
the judgment was affirmed by that court, its opinion being
reported in 14 S. W Rep. 85, but, on the application of all
parties for a rehearing, the petition of the defendants for a
rehearing was overruled and that of the plaintiff was sustained.

HENDERSON BRIDGE- CO. v. HENDERSON CITY.

685

Opinion of the Court.

The former opinion was withdrawn, the mandate was set aside,
a new opinion was delivered, (14 S. W Rep. 493,) and an order
entered declaring that there was no error in the judgment of
the Circuit Court, and that that judgment was affirmed, with
damages.
In the second opinion, which was delivered October 7, 1890,
it was held that all that was decided in .Louisvill&Bridge Co.
v City of Louwville, 81 Kentucky, 189, was that, in order
to authorize a city government to subject real estate situated
within its corporate limits to taxation for city or municipal
purposes only, there must be actual or presumed benefits to
such property by the extension of the city government over
it, that the Court of Appeals had often distinguished between
the power of a city to tax real estate situated within its limits
for city or municipal purposes only, and for such district purposes as the legislature might authorize, that the legislature
might create a city boundary, or designate any other boundary,
without reference to existing civil or political districts, into taxing districts, for local purposes, that the city of Henderson
having voted a tax in reference to aiding in building the beforenamed connecting railroad in Indiana, was a taxing district,
that the same state of things existed in regard to the tax for
school purposes, that after such taxes were voted by the taxing district, the owner of real estate situated therein could not
be heard to say that his property was not benefited by the
enterprise for which the tax was voted, that although the
jurisdiction of the city of Henderson extended to low-water
mark on the Indiana shore of the river, she could not tax the
property of the bridge company for city or municipal purposes,
but as a taxing district she could tax such property, and that
the bridge taxed, which was realty, and extended across the
Ohio River, was used for profit, and could be benefited by the
city and taxed by it as a taxing district.
The court then proceeded to consider the question whether
the contract entered into tetween the city and the bridge company, contained in the ordinance of the city accepted by the
bridge company on the .lth of February, 1882, amounted to -4
contract right to tax the propbrty of the bridge company to

OCTOBER TER-,

1891.

Opinion of the Court.

low-water mark on the Indiana shore, the provision of that
ordinance in section 4 being as follows: "Sec. 4. That nothing
herein shall be construed as waiving the right of the city of
Henderson to levy and collect taxes on the approaches to said
bridge, or any building erected by said bridge company within
the corporate limits of said city, the bridge itself and all appurtenances thereto within the limits of said city" The court
remarked that the bridge company obtained from the city the
right to construct its bridge and approaches on or over the
centre of Fourth Street, and of the line thereof extended to
'low-water mark on the Indiana side of the Ohio River, and
such apprdaches, avenues, piers, trestles, abutments, toll-houses
and other appurtenances as should be necessary in the erection,
and for the business, of a bridge over the Ohio River, from a
point in the city to some convenient point on the Indiana side
of the river, and, also, that the right to use the land between
Water Street in the city and low-water mark on the Kentucky
side of the river, extending 100 feet below, and 300 feet above,
the centre of Fourth Street extended to the river, was granted
to the bridge company for erecting such wharves, elevators
and other buildings as should be deemed necessary for the successful operation of the enterprise, and that, in consilderation
of such grant, section 4 in regard to taxes was inserted in the
ordinance. The court then remarked that the bridge company
maintained that section 4 of the ordinance. meant only to reserve the right to tax such property of the bridge company as
was theretofore subject to taxation by the city government,
and that, as that part of the bridge which was situated over
the water of the river was not theretofore subject to taxation,
the reservation related to that part of the bridge which the
city previously had'the right to tax. But the view taken by
the court was that the contract was well considered and prudently drafted by men skilled in that kind of work, that it
was not to be presumed that they engaged in a mere nvudum
pactum, but meant to set forth a business transaction, that
the bridge company desired rights, and privileges which it did
not possess, and could not possess.without the consent of the
city, that the city already bad the-right to tax the approaches

HENDERSON BRIDGE CO. v. HENDERSON CITY.

687

Opinion of the Court.

to the bridge, and it had made no concessions which could possibly be construed as waiving that right, that the right to tax
referred to in section 4 was the rght to tax "the bridge itself;"
that the bridge, as distinguished from its abutments and approaches, was that part which was over the water, that the
city, in its municipal capacity, -according to the decision in
.Lousville Bndge Co. v City of ,ouzsville, 81 Kentucky, 189,
had no right to tax that part of the bridge which was over the
water, that the city had the right, if such right was asserted
and agreed to, to claim that the bridge should be taxed in consideration of the privileges granted to the bridge company;
that it must be presumed that that claim of right was asserted
and agreed to, and was expressed in section 4 of the ordinance
by the term "not waiving the right," that if the contract did
not mean that, it meant nothing, that it was not to be supposed that the contracting parties meant only to reserve a
right which they had already, and about which there was no
dispute, and that, as the right to tax the bridge to the Indiana
shore might be obtained legitimately by contract, and the city
granted to the bridge company rights and privileges essential
to its enterprise, it was reasonable to suppose that the city
'would contract for the right thus to tax the bridge company
in consideration of granting such rights and privileges. This
opinion was delivered as the opinion, of the court by Judge
Bennett. Judge Pryor dissented from it. Chief Justice Holt-.
delivered a separate opinion,. holding that the legislature, by
authorizing the imposition and collection of the railroad
and school taxes upon the real estate within the city limits,
created a taxing district, that the power to collect such taxes,
therefore, was conferred upon the city as such taxing district,
that the property of the bridge company, being within such
district, was liable for such taxes, that, as to the municipal
taxes proper, the property of the bridge company was within
the corporate limits, and received such benefits from the municipal government as to render it both legally and justly liable
for such municipal taxes, and that upon those grounds he concurred in affirming the judgment of the lower court.
The bridge' company and the railroad company sued out a

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

writ of error from tis court, to review the judgment of the
Court of Appeals.
The bridge company assigns for error (1) that the Court of
Appeals erred m overruling its claim that the acceptance of
-its charter and the construction of its bridge amounted in law
to a contract between it and Kentucky, that no part of its
bridge, north of low-water mark on the Kentucky shore of the
river, ever should be subjected to taxation by the city for
municipal or any other purpose, (2) that the court erred in
overruling the claun of the bridge company that the tax ordinances of the city were null and void so far as they assessed
for taxes the bridge structure north of low-water mark on the
Kentucky shore of the river, because those ordinances impaired
the obligations of the charter contract of the bridge company
with Kentucky, and were repugnant to the Constitution of
erred in overruling the
the United States, and (3) that -it
claim of the bridge company that its bridge was exempt from
tho taxation in question, because it spanned the Ohio River, a
navigable stream and interstate river, and was solely a means
of interstate commerce, erected under authority from the
United States and receiving no protection from the city The
bridge company and the railroad company both of them assign
for error that the court erred in overruling their claim that
the tax ordinances of the city impaired the obligations of the
contract of February 27, 1884, between the bridge company
and the railroad company, and were void, because repugnant
to the Constitution of the United States.
The city of Henderson now makes a motion to dismiss the
writ of error, for want of jurisdiction in this court, on the
ground -that no Federal question was actually decided by
the state court.
Although a Federal question may have been raised in the
state court, yet if the case was decided in that court on
grounds not'involving a Federal question, but broad -enough
to sustain the decision, this court will refuse to entertain jurisdiction. Kre'tger v Shelby Railroadl Co., 125 U. S.39, 46, De
Saussure v. Gaillard,127 U. S. 216, 234, Bale v Akers, 132
U. S. 554, 564, 565, Hop im v .MoLure, 133 U. S. 380, 386,
387, Johnson v R-ss, 137 U. S. 300, 306, 307.

HENDERSO01 BRIDGE CO. v. HENDERSON CITY

689

Opunon of the Court.

The opinion of the state court is based wholly upon the
ground that the proper interpretation of the ordinance of February, 1882, was that the bridge company voluntarily agreed
that the bridge should be liable to taxation. This does not*
involve a Federal question, and is broad enough to dispose of
the case, without reference to any Federal question. This,
court cannot review the construction which was given to the
ordinance as a contract, by the state court.
There is nothing in the suggestion that the taxation of the
bridge is a regulation of commerce among the States, or isthe
taxation of any agency of the Federal government.
The case of Louzsville Brdge Co. v. City of .ouzoville, 81
Kentucky, 189, was not decided until May, 1883, more than a
year after the ordinance of the city of Henderson was accepted
by the bridge company, in February, 1882.
The contract of February, 1884:, between the bridge company and the railroad company, was made more than :two
years after the ordinance of February; 1882, came into existence.
Neither the opinion of the Court of Appeals in the present
case, nor that of 'Chief Justice Holt, nor that of the Uircuit
Court of the State, puts the decision upon any Federal question, and on this writ of error to the state court, we are bound
by its interpretation of the contract contained in the ordinance, in view of the constitution and laws of Kentucky, and
cannot review that question.
Writ of error dismizgsed.

IMR.

JusTicE HAwAx
VOL. OX-44

dissented.

