ADAMS v. BELLAIRE STAMPING CO.
Opinion of the Court.

Court of the State, but it is without favor here. We are
bound to presume that when the question arose m the state
court it was thoroughly considered by that tribunal, and that
the decision rendered embodied its deliberate judgment
thereon.
There are no other questions in the case that call for especial consideration, as the foregoing virtually disposes of all of
them. Upon the whole case we are of the opinion that' the
decree of the court below was correct, and it is
Afflrmed.
The CHIEF UsTICE and MR. JUSTICE GRAY did not hear the
argument or take part in the decision of this case.

ADAMS v. BELLAIRE STAMPING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

THE

UNITED

STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 60. Argued October 26,1891.-Decided November 16, 1891.

The alleged invention protected by letters patent No. 50,591, granted October 24, 1865, to John H. Irwin, was a combination of old devices, each
performing its old function and working out its own effect, without producing anything novel as the result of the combination, and was not
patentable.
When the sol issue in an action for the infringement of a patent is as
to the patentable character of the alleged invention, it is not error to
decline to instruct the jury that the fact that the machine ha, practically
superseded all others was strong evidence of its novelty.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mftr J H Raymond for plaintiff in error.
.&

Lysander Itill for defendant in error.

MR. JUSTICE

FIELD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action to recover damages for the alleged infringement of a patent for an improvement in lanterns, granted to

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

John H. Irwin in October, 1865, and assigned to the plaintiff
in October, 1874. It was brought m. the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of Ohio. The plaintiff
is a citizen of Illinois and the defendant is a corporation formed
under the laws of Ohio.
Previous to the invention claimed, lanterns were in use constructed in a similar manner to the one upon which the alleged
improvement is made. They bad a like metallic bottom
and top, a glass globe and a guard formed of upright wires
attached to rings at the top and bottom - the guard, bottom
and top, forming together something like a basket, into which
the lamp with a glass chimney was placed, the glass protecting the flame from the wind and the wire guard protecting the
glass from injury by collision. The lantern was carried by
means of a swinging bail, connected with the guard or the top.
The lamp, placed inside of the globe, rested on the bottom of
the lantern, which was so connected with the lower ring of
the guard that it could be detached and removed when the
lamp was to be trimmed or filled, or the chimney to be cleaned.
The top of the lantern also aided in securing the globe in
place.
To a lantern of this kind Irwin added his alleged improvement. In his patent he states that what he claimed was "securing a removable lantern top to the upper part of the guard,
substantially as therein specified and described." And in his
specification he says that the invention "consists in attaching
the metallic top of the lantern in which the top of the glass
globe or protector enters, and by which it is held in place by a
hinge, to the upper part of the wire guard surrounding the
globe, and securing it at the side opposite said hinge by a removable- fastening or spring-catch, so that by detaching said
catch from the said upper part of the lantern guard the top of
the lantern may be thrown back, opening upon the aforesaid
hinge, thus enabling the globe to be removed, or for any other
purpose."
The terms "removable fastening" or "spring-catch," as
observed by counsel, cover every conceivable device applicable
to lanterns and adapted to connect one edge of the lid with

ADAMS

v. BELLAIRE STAMPING CO.
Opinion of the Court.

the top of the lantern or guard or to disconnect it. It was
simply the application to the ordinary lantern of a lid secured
by a hinge on one side and by any kind of locking device on
the opposite side. An invention having no greater extent than
this was not deemed by the defendant as possessing any virtue
deserving a patent. It consisted simply in the use of a hinge
and a catch instead of two equivalent fastenings generally
employed before, and only possessed this merit -that by the
use of the hinge the cover could not be separated and.lost in
case the catch on the other side should from any cause become
unfastened. So that the alleged invention only amounted to
securing a lid to a lantern by means of a catch on one side and
a hinge on the other.
The plaintiff in his declaration alleges that this invention
was of great utility and was extensively introduced into public
use and generally acquiesced in. The defendant in his general
and special pleas alleged, first, that the supposed invention of
Irwin did not, in view of the state of the art, require the exer
cise of the inventive faculty, but only mechanical skill and good
judgment, second, that it was not for a patentable combination of parts, but only for an aggregation of old and wellknown parts, each of which performed only its old and wellknown function unchanged by the combination, third, that
at the time Irwin filed his application there was pending in the
Patent Office another application for the same invention in
the name of one Duburn, upon which application a patent was
afterwards issued, and, fourth, that the said supposed invention had been patented, or described in printed pablications or
patents, prior thereto.
On the trial special questions were submitted to the jury,
and they found. that the Irwin patent disclosed no improvement which required invention as distinguished from mere
mechanical skill or judgment, that the invention claimed had
been patented or described in previous publications, that
Irwin was not the original or first inventor or discoverer of
any material or substantial part of the thing patented, and
that the defendant had not infringed the alleged patent. Judgment was accordingly entered for the defendant in the action.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

We do not perceive that in the rulings of the court any substantial error was committed. The elements combined to form
the alleged invention merely constituted an aggregation of
old devices, each working out its own effect, without producing
anything novel, and such an assemblage or bringing together
of old devices, without securing some new and useful result as
the.joint product of the combination - something more than
a 'nere aggregation of old results - does not constitute a patHailes v Van Wormer, 20 Wall. 353,
entable invention.
Pzckerlng v .mcCullough, 104 U. S. 310.
The court did not, therefore, err in refusing the instruction
requested, that before the patent could be held invalid by
reason of a prior patent it was not sufficient to find one of the
elements in one patent, a second in another and a third in
another. If the patent were for a combination of new or old
elements producing a new result such instruction might have
been correct, but as it was merely a new aggregation of old
elements, in which each element performed its old function
and no new result was produced by their combination, the
instruction was not applicable and was properly refused.
Nor, under the circumstances, -did the court err in declining
to instruct the jury that the fact that the Irwin lantern had
practically superseded all others was strong evidence of its
novelty The question before the court upon the main issue
was not of the novelty of the invention, but rather of its patentable character. Where there is no invention the extent of
the use is not a matter of moment.
We think that all the important questions of fact in the
case were properly submitted to the jury
The judgment is, therefore,

Affirmed.

