CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.

In

Pe

GREEN.

ORIGINAL.
No number. Submitted October 15, 1891.-Decded October 19, 1891.

does not lie from this court to the judges of the Supreme Court of a State, directing them to restore.to office an attorney
and counsellor whom that court had disbarred, and to vacate the order of
disbarment.

A writ of mandamus

THIs was a petition for leave to file an application for a
writ of mandamus. The averments in the petition, upon
which the prayer was founded, are sufficiently set forth m the
opinion of the court.
.M B.

ITr Perkns,on behalf of the petitioner, presented the

petition, together with a brief by him in support of it.
MR.

Jusmian Finw delivered the opimon of the court.

It appears from the petition of the applicant, which he asks
leave to file, that he has been disbarred from .the practice of
law as an attorney and .counsellor. in the courts of Colorado
by order of the Sitpreme Court of that State, and he prays for
325

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opimon of the Court.

a writ of mandamus from this court commanding the judges
of that court to restore him to his office and to vacate the
order of disbarment.
The ground of the disbarment, as shown by the petition and
the opinion of the Supreme Court of Colorado, to which it
refers, was vitqnerative and denunciatory language used by
the applicant in the pleadings in a suit brought in the Circuit
Court of the United States respecting the conduct of a judge
of the Superior Court of the city of Denver, Colorado, in certain
proceedings had before him, and respecting the conduct of
counsel therein, amounting to charges of corruption and bribery
on their part in that suit, which the Supreme Court of the
State found to be unwarranted by any evidence and prompted
by the malice of the applicant. That court, so far as the
charges against the judge of the Superior Court were concerned, evidently proceeded upon the. opinion that the obligation of attorneys and counsellors inposed upon them from
their office was, among other things, to observe at all times,
both in their manner and language, the respect due to courts
of justice and judicial officers, and that insulting and defamatory language, prompted by malice, respecting their conduct
in court, was a breach of that obligation, for which they could
properly be disbarred. It declared that the attorney's privilege does not permit him to enter the courts and spread upon
the judicial records charges of a shoc]king and felonious character against brother attorneys, and against judges engaged
in the administration of justice, upon mere rumors coupled
with facts which should of themselves create no suspicion of
official corruption in a just and fair mind. The applicant
affirms that the order of disbarment was unwarranted, arbitrary, tyrannical and oppressive, and asks the interposition of
this court by mandamus for his relief.
We cannot give him the aid he seeks by that writ,. whatever may be the ground upon which the state court proceeded,
and in whatever light its action may be regarded. A writ of
mandamus can only be issued from this court in aid of its
.appellate jurisdicti6n, except in a few enumerated cases, not
embracing the one before us. The Judiciary Act of 1789,

McNULTA v. LOCHRIDGE.
Statement of the Case.

adopted at the first session of Congress, after declaring that
the Supreme Court shouldhave appellate jurisdiction from the
Circuit Courts and courts of the several tStates,in certain cases,
provided that it should have power to issue writs of mandamus in cases, warranted by the principles and usages of law,
"to any courts appointed, or persons holding office, under the
authority of the United States." And the Revised Statutes
(ยง 688) reenacted this provision in a modified form, without
removing the limitation as to the courts to which and the
officers to, whom it may issue. If the applicant has any
remedy in this court for his alleged grievance,, upon which we
express no opinion, it must be sought in another way
Motion densed.
YM. JUSTICE GRAY was absent at the time of the submission
and decision of this case.

MoNULTA

.

LOCHIRIDGE.

ERROR TO THE SUPREMIE COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLIOIS.
No. 1324. Submitted October 13, 1891.-Decided October26, 1891.
Whether a person holding the office of receiver can be held responsible for
the acts of his predecessor in the same office is not a Federal question,
but a question of general law.
A receiver of a railroad, appointed by a Federal court, is not entitled under
the act of March 3, 1887, c. 373, ยง 3, 24 Stat. 552, 554, to immunity from
suit for acts done by his predecessor, without previous permission given
by that court.
An-adverse judgment of a state court, upon the claun of a receiver appointed by a Federal court, of immunity from suit without leave of the
appointing court first obtained is subject to review in this court.
Actions will lie by and against a receiver for causes of action accruing
in office.
under his predecessor

THIns was a-motion to dismiss a writ of error, or affirm the
judgment of the court below upon the following state of
fact5..

