CROSBY VALVE CO. v. SAFETY VALVF! CO.

441

Syllabus.

nor could it be invoked as against them by Kneeland, the purchaser. The case then is one of a claim apparently good, sustained by the decree of the trial court, and brought here for
review without any of the ,testimony introduced in the trial
court, and upon which its decree was based. Of course on
such a record no error can be adjudged.
The decree is
Affirmed.
The

CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY and MR. JUSTICE
did not hear the argument nor take part in the decision
of this case.
GRAY

CROSBY STEAM GAGE & VALVE COMPANY v.
CONSOLIDATED SAFETY VALVE COMPANY
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 999.

STATES FOR

Argued October 22. 1891. - Decided November 2, 1891.

On an accounting as to profits and damages, on a bill for the infringement
of letters patent No. 58,294, granted to George W Richardson, September 25, 1866, for an improvement in steam safety-valves, the Circuit
Court, confirming the report of the master, allowed to the plaintiff the
entire profit made by the defendant from making and selling safety-valves
containing the patented improvement, and this court affirmed the decree,
on the ground that the entire commercial value of the defendant's valves
was to be attributed to the patented improvement of Richardson.
It was held that the plaintiffs valves of commerce all of them contained
the improvements covered by the patent of Richardson, and that, as tpe
master had reported no damages, in addition to profits, the amount f
profits could not be affected by the question whether the plaintiff did
or did not use the patented invention.
It was proper not to make any allowance to the defendant for the value of
improvements covered by subsequent patents owned and used by the
defendant.
It was also proper not to allow to the defendant for valves made by the
defendant and destroyed by it before sale, or after a sale and in exchange
for other valves, which did not appear in the account on either side.
It was also proper not to allow a credit for the destroyed valves against thp
profits realized by the defendant on other valves.
Interest from the date of the master's report was properly allowed on the
amount of profits reported by the master and decreed by the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

IN EQUITY.

The case is stated in the opinion.

fr Edmund TWetmore for appellant. Mr Joshua Hf. Millett was with him on the brief.
.A& Thomas William Clarke for appellee.
Mr. JusTin. BL.ATCHFOiD delivered the opinion of the court.

On the 27th of May, 1879, the Consolidated Safety Valve
Coapany, a Connecticut corporation, brought a suit in equity
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Massachusetts, against the Crosby Steam Gage and Valve
Company, a Massachusetts corporation, for the infringement
of letters patent No. 58,294, granted to George W Richardson, September 25, 1866, for an improvement in steam safetyvalves. The claim of that patent was as follows "What I
claim as my improvement, and desire to secure by- letters
patent, is- A safety-valve with the circular or annular flange
or lip o o, constructed in the manner, or substantially in the
manner, shown, so as to operate as and for the purpose herein
described."
On the 2d of June, 1879, the same plaintiff brought a suit in
equity m the same court against the same defendant, for the
infringement of letters patent No. 85,963, granted to the same
George W Richardson, January 19, 1869, for an improvement
in safety-valves for steam boilers or generators. The claim of
that patent was as follows: "What I claim as new, and desire
to secure by letters patent, is the combination of the surface
beyond the seat of the safety-valve, with the means herein
described for regulating or adjusting the area of the passage
for the escape of steam, substantially as and for the purpose
described."
In the answers: in the two suits, the defence of want of
novelty was set up, and -alleged anticipating patents were
referred to, infringement was denied, and it was averred that
the valves made and sold by the defendant were the inventions of George .. Crosby, and .were described in two patents
granted to him and owned by the defendant, one, No. 159,157,

CROSBY VALVE CO. v. SAFETY VALVE CO.

443

Opinion of the Court.

dated January 26, 1875, and the other, iNo. 160,167, dated
February 23, 1875.
The same proofs were taken in the two suits, and they were
heard together in the Circuit Court, in each suit a decree was
made dismissing the bill (7 Fed. Rep. 768), and from each
decree the plaintiff appealed to this court. Non-infringement
was found by the Circuit Court. This court (113 U S. 157)
reversed the decree in each case, and directed the Circuit Court
to enter a decree in each case sustaining the validity of the
patent, decreeing infringement and awarding an account of
profits and damages.
On receiving the mandate of this court in the suit on the
patent of 1866, the Circuit Court, on the 18th of May, 1885,
entered a decree in conformity therewith and for a recovery
by the plaintiff of profits and damages from February 15,
1879, and ordered a reference to a master to take an account
of such profits and damages. A like decree was made on the
mandate in the suit on the patent of 1869. The date of February 15. 1879, was taken because that was the time when the
title to each of the patents became vested in the plaintiff.
The master took voluminous proofs, and filed his report on
the 5th of August, 1889, covering both of the suits. The report
of the master found that the total profits which the defendant
had derived from its manufacture and sale of steam safetyvalves containing the improvement described and claimed in
the patent of 1866, from February 15, 1879, to September 25,
1883, the date of the expiration of the patent, amounted to
$40,344.59. Both parties filed exceptions to the report, and
on the 11th of October, 1890, the Circuit Court entered a
decree overruling both sets of exceptions and awarding to the
plaintiff a recovery for the $40,314.59, with interest thereon.
from August 5, 1889, the date of the filing of the master's
report, and the costs of the suit. From. this decree the defendant has appealed. The opinion of the Circuit Court is reported
in 44 Fed. Rep. 66.
The master says, in his report in the case, in respect to the
patent of 1866, which he calls No. 1184, that, for the period
from February 15, 1879, to September 25, 1883, he attributes

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinon of the Court.

the entire commercial value of the valves manufactured and
sold by the defendant to the improvement covered by the
patent of 1866. He adds "Richardson's invention, as described and claimed in that patent, revolutionized the art of
relieving steam-boilers from steam pressure rapidly approaching the dangerous point. It made effective for that purpose
-

rapidly, and with comparatively small loss of steam -.

apparatus described in other patents, which very nearly embodied Richardson's invention, but did not actually contain it.
The Supreme Court in these cases has defined this invention,
and has declared it to be a vital one -a life-giving principle
to structures very nearly approaching, but not quite containing an embodiment of, Richardson's discovery" The master
also says in his report. "It was contended before me that
none of the complainant's valves of commerce contained this
invention of Richardson, but, upon the whole evidence, with
specimens of all the different valves put on the market by the
complainants before me, I find that they all contained Richardson's improvement of 1866. The Supreme Court has
decided in these cases that the defendant's valves contain this
invention, and it is under this decision that the accounting in
No. 1184 is before me. Eliminate this invention from the
defendant's valves and they would be commercially worthless.
No substitute for this invention has been suggested to me, and
I know of none which the defendants could have used in its
place to have made their valves of commercial value. The
defendants claim that some of the profits which they have
made are due.to the peculiar form of their valves, but the form
which they used in making their valves was the form in which
they clothed-the Richardson invention, the life of their valves,
and without that life the Crosby form is worthless."
The specifications and drawings of the two patents of Richardson are set forth at length in the report of the cases in 113
U. S. 157. The opinion of this court said (p. 178) "There is
one structural difference between the two valves, which is now
to be mentioned. In the Richardson valve, all the steam
which escapes into the open air escapes from the huddling
chamber, through a stricture which is smaller than the aper-

CROSBY VALVE. CO. v. SAFETY VALVE CO.

445

Opinion of the Court.

ture at the ground joint. In the defendant's valve, the valve
proper has two ground joints, one at the inner periphery of
the annulus and the other at its outer periphery, and only a
part of the steam, namely, that which passes through one of
the ground joints passes into the huddling chamber and then
through the stricture, the other part of the steam passing
directly from the boiler into the air, through the other ground
joint. But all of that part of the steam which passes into the
huddling chamber and under the extended surface, passes
through the constriction at the extremity of such chamber, in
both valves, the difference being one only of degree, but with
the same mode of operation."
In respect to this point, one of the briefs for.-the appellant,
now submitted, says "The appellant's valve, in this case,
known as the Crosby valve and made in accordance with the
Crosby patents, is so constructed that it has two ground joints.
When the valve rises, by reason of increased pressure, part of
the steam escapes through- one ground joint directly into the
open air, and part of the steam escapes through the other
ground joint into a huddling chamber, and thence into the
air through orifices -which form an aperture less than the
ground joint orifice through which it enters said huddling
chamber. Although the relief to the boiler caused by the
blowing off of the valve was, in consequence of this double
mode of escape for the steam, due to the combined effect of
its escape through the huddling chamber and its escape through
the second ground joint, yet, as all that part of the steam
which entered the huddling cnamber passed through the strictured opening, the court held that the valve contained the
Richardson device, and was, therefore, an infringement."
The master fnrther.says, in his report "The defendant
claimed before me.that the complainants, -in the accounting in
1184, which relates only to the Richardson patent of 1866,
should prove specifically the value of the invention secured to
them under that patent as used by the defendants, and" that,
as it was claimed by complainants (and the Supreme Court
has so decided) that defendants used also Richardson's invention of 1869, the value of the invention secured to. the com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

plainants by the 1869 patent must be determined, -and not
made an element in the recovery to be had under the accounting in 1184. I have no means of determining the value of
that invention as used by the defendants from February 15,
1879, to September 25, 1883, or of stating in-dollars and cents
how much of the profits of the defendants during that period
isdue to that invention. The complainants claimed that during that period all the profits of the defendants were due to
the Richardson invention of 1866, and, as the Richardson invention of 1869 belonged also to the complainants, and as the
complainants and defendants were respectively the same in
each case, 1184 relating to the said invention of 1866 and 1199
relating to the invention of 1869, and as the said period from
February 15, 1879, to September 25, 1883, was included within
the period to be covered by the accounting in each case, no
injustice is done the defendants in acceding to the complainant's claim in this regard, and this is especially so in view of
the fact that the defendants claimed that the adjustable device as shown in the Richardson patent of 1869 is worthless as
such, and that the cost of the Crosby valve is less without the
said so-called adjustable ring and is a better and more useful
safety appliance."
The master also found that the plaintiff had suffered no
damages in addition to the profits to be assessed against the
defendant, in regard to the patent of 1866.
The defendant's exceptions to the master's report cover the
following points: (1 . The disallowance to the defendant of
the sum of $1978.34, (2) the finding that the Richardson
valve sold by the plaintiff contained the invention set forth in
the patent of 1866, (3) the finding that the entire commercial
value of the valves made and sold by the defendant, between
February 15, 1879, and September 25, 1883, was due to the
improvement covered by the patent of 1866, (4) the failure
to find that the plaintiff was entitled to recover only for the
ascertained value of the improvements covered by the two
patents over and above the value of previous safety-valves
known to the art and open to be used by the defendant, (5)
the failure to require the plaintiff to show what in fact was

CROSBY VALVE CO. v. SAFETY VALVE CO.

447

Opinion of the Court.

the value attributable to the improvement of 1866, (6) the failure to require the plaintiff to show what was the value of the
improvement of 1866, in comparison with the value of safetyvalves previously known to the art and free to the defendant
to be used, (7) the failure to find that the defendant was liable
to account to the plaintiff for only a nominal sum, (8) to the
same purport as exception 7, (9) the failure to ascertain what
part of -the profits of the defendant was due to the two
patented improvements of Crosby, and (10) the failure to
ascertain what part of the profits was due to the employment
of the improvement covered by the patent of 1869.
The Circuit Court, held by Judge Colt, says in its opinion
"In judging of the correctness of the method pursued by the
master in his estimation of defendants' profits, the construction put upon the Richardson 1866 patent, and the 'language
used in respect thereto, as embodied in the opinion of the
Supreme Court, cannot be disregarded. It was clearly the
duty of the master in his findings, as it is also the duty of
the court at the present time, to give full force and effect to
the opinion of the Supreme Court. If the contention of the
defendants is sound, that the Supreme Court, in their interpretation of the Richardson 1866 patent, gave too much
prominence to the feature known as the 'huddling chamber
with a strictured orifice,' it is for them, upon appeal, to obtain
some modification of that opinion, but so long as it stands as
the opinion of that court, the views therein expressed should
be strictly carried out. The position, therefore, taken by the
defendants, that the complainants are only entitled to nominal
damages, because, as they say, the Richardson valve of commerce does not contain the huddling chamber with a strictured
orifice, or, in other words, a huddling chamber with an apbrture for the exit of the steam into the open air which is of
smaller area than the aperture at the ground joint, I cannot
regard as sound, in view of the opinion of the Supreme Court.
That court construed the Richardson patents, and it held that
defendants' valve was within those patents, and it gave a
broad construction to the Richardson 1866 patent."
The opinion then says that the court approves and adopts

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

the conclusions reached by the master in the paragraphs before quoted from his report.
In the former opinion of this court, at 113 U. S. 170, it was

said "In the present case the defendant has introduced in
evidence the before-named English patents to Ritchie, Webster and Hartley, and the English patent to William Naylor,
No. 1830, granted July 1, 1863, and also letters patent of
the United States, No. 10,243, granted to Henry Waterman,
November 15, 1853, and the reissue of the same, No. 2675,
granted to him July 9, 1867. In view of all these patents,
and of the state of the art, it appears that Richardson was the
first person who described and introduced into use a safetyvalve which, while it automatically relieved the pressure of
steam in the boiler, did not, in effecting that result, reduce the
pressure to such an extent as to make the use of the relieving
apparatus practically impossible, because of the expenditure of
time and fuel necessary to bring up the steam again to the
proper working standard. His valve, while it automatically
gives relief before the pressure becomes dangerously great,
according to the point at which the valve is set to blow off,
operates so as to automatically arrest with promptness the
reduction of pressure when the boiler is relieved. His patent
of 1866 gave a moderate range of pressure, as the result of the
proportions there specified, and his patent of 1869 furnished a
means of regulating that range of pressure, by a screw-ring,
within those narrow limits which are essential in the use of so
subtle an agent as steam. In regard to all the above patents
adduced against Richardson's patent of 1866, it may be generally said that they never were, in their day, and before the
date of that'patent, or of Richardson's invention, known or
recognized as producing any such result as his apparatus of
that patent produces, as above defined. Likenesses in them,
in physical structure, to the apparatus of Richardson, in
important particulars, may be pointed out, but it is only as
the anatomy of a corpse resembles that of the living being.
The prior structures never effected the kind of result attained
by Richardson's apparatus, because they lacked the thing
which gave success. They did not have the retarding stric-

CROSBY VALVE CO. v. SAFETY vALVE CO. 449
Opmion of the Court.

ture which gave the lifting opportunity to the huddled steam,
combined with the quick falling of the valve after relief had
come. Taught by Richardson, and by the use of his apparatus, it is not difficult for skilled mechanics to take the prior
structures and so arrange and use them as to produce more or
less of the beneficial results first made known by Richardson,
but, prior to 1866, though these old patents and their descriptions were accessible, no valve was made producing any such
results. Richardson's patent of 1866 states that the addition
to the head of the valve terminates m an annular lip, which
fits loosely around the valve-seat, and is separated from it by
about Wth of an inch for an ordinary spring, and a less space
for a strong spring, and a greater space for a weak spring,
forming an annular chamber, and regulating the escape of the
steam, that the steam, when the valve is lifted, passes beyond
the valve-seat, and into the annular chamber, and acts against
theincreased surface of the valve-head, and thus overcomes the
increasing resistance of the spring due to its compression, and
lifts the valve higher, and the steam escapes freely into the
open air, until the pressure is sufficiently reduced, when the
spring immediately closes the valve. It is not shown that,
before 1866, any known valve produced this result."
The opinion also said "It appears to have been easy
enough to make a safety-valve which would relieve the boiler,
but the problem was to make one which, while it opened with
increasing power in the steam against the increasing resistance
of a spring, would- close suddenly and not gradually by the
pressure of the same spring against the steam. This was a
problem of the reconciliation of antagonisms, which so often
occurs in mechanics, and without which practically successful
results are not attained. What was needed was a narrow
stricture to hold back the escaping steam, aild secure its expansive force inside of the lip, and thus aid the direct pressure of
the steam from the boiler in lifting the valve against the
increasing tension of the spring, with the result that, after
,only a small, but a sufficient, reduction in the boiler pressure,
the compressed spring would, by its very compression, obtain
the mastery and close the valve quickly This problem was
VOL. cxu-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

solved by Richardson, and never before. His patent of 1869
describes the arrangement and operation of the whole apparatus, with the adjustable ring, thus When the pressure of
the steam lifts the valve, the steam acts against the surface of
an annular space between the bevel of the valve-seat and the
downward-proj~ting flange of the cap-plate, to assist in holding up the valve against the increasing resistance of the spring.
The aperture between the valve and its seat is always greater
than that between the flange and the upward-projecting rim,
and thus the steam in the annular space assists in holding up
the valve till the boiler pressure falls below that at which the
valve opened. The difference between the closing pressure
and the opening pressure depends on the distance between the
flange and the rim. There is a central aperture in the cap,
through which the steam escapes when the valve is lifted,
which is surrounded by a projecting cylindrical flange, threaded
on the outside, to which is fitted a threaded ring, which can
be turned up or down and secured by a set-screw By this
means, the area of the aperture for the escape of steam
beyond the valve-seat is adjustable, the space being largest
when the ring is down, and smallest when the ring is up."
The opinion then considers the prior patents of Ritchie,
Webster and Hartley, and holds that they did not anticipate
Richardson's invention of 1866. In regard to the Webster
patent, it says "The Webster patent shows a huddling
chamber and a stricture. But the evidence shows that valves
made with the proportions shown in the drawing of Webster
work with so large a loss of boiler pressure, before closing,
as to be practically and economically worthless. Webster's
patent describes a means of making the area for the escape of
steam adjustable, consisting in adjusting up and down, on a
smooth valve-stem, a sliding collar or flange, and fixing it in
place by a set-screw But it does not show the screw-ring of
Richardson, with its minute delicacy of adjustment and action."
Further it says. "Richardson is, therefore, entitled to cover,
by the claim of his patent of 1866, under the language, 'a
safety-valve with the circular or annular flange or lip c c, constructed in the manner, or substantially in the manner, shown,

CROSBY VALVE CO. v. SAFETY VALVE CO.

451

Opinion of the Court.

so as to operate as and for the purpose herein described,' a
valve in which are combined an initial area, an additional
area, a huddling chamber beneath the additional area, and a
strictured orifice leading from the huddling. chamber to the
open air, the orifice being proportioned to the strength of the
spring, as directed. The direction given in the patent is, that
the flange or lip is to be separated from the valve-seat by
about Ith of an inch for an ordinary spring, with less space
for a strong spring, and more space for a weak spring, to
regulate the escape of the steam, as required." "The Richardson patents have a disc valve, an annular huddling cha-mber,
an annular stricture at the outer extremity of the radii from
the centre of the valve, an additional area which is radially
beyond the disc valve, and a cylindrical steam way But, before
1866, an annular form of safety-valve was well known. Such
a valve necessarily requires an annular steam way In the
defendant's valve, complainant's Exhibit A, the same effects,
in operation, are produced as in the Richardson valve, by the
means described in Richardson's claims. In both structures
the valve is held to its seat by a spring, so compressed as to
keep the valve there until the pressure inside of the boiler is
sufficient to move the valve against the pressure of the spring,
so that the steam escapes through the ground joint into a
chamber covered by an extension of the valve, in which
chamber the steam acts expansively against the extended
surface, and increases the pressure in opposition to the increasing pressure of the spring, and assists in opening the valve
wider; this chamber, in the defendant's valve, has, at its termination, substantially the same construction as Richardson's
valve, namely, a stricture which causes the steam to act, by
expansive force, against the extended surface of the valve,
and in both valves, after the pressure of the steam has been
somewhat reduced in the boiler, the closing movement is
quickened, as the valve nears its seat, in consequence of the
reduced pressure of the steam on the extended surface, and
the valve comes suddenly to its seat. In the Richardson
valve, the valve proper is a disc, and the extended surface is
an annulus surrounding the disc, while, in the defendant's

OCTOBER TERMK, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

valve, the valve proper. is an annulus, and the extended surface
is a disc inside of the annulus. But this is a mere interchange
of form between the valve proper and the extended surface,
within the skill of an ordinary mechanic."
It is contended by the defendant that the proof shows that
a valve madeiin the required proportions of the patent of
1866 and in accordance with its drawing and description, without the improvement of 1869, and with the area of escape at thm
outlet smaller than the area of entrance at the 1ground joint,
is not as economical or as good in action as the earlier Webster
valve, that a valve constructed in accordance with the patent.
of 1866 is not an economical valve, but operates with a large
loss of steam, that the valves sold by the plaintiff as Richardson valves, being the same in pattern as those sold by it since
it began business, are not constructed so that the area of
escape from the huddling chamber is smaller than the area of
entrance from the ground joint, but on the contrary, it is.
about twice as large, and that the plaintiff has never put a
valve on the market with the orifice of escape from the huddling chamber smaller than the orifice of entrance into that
chamber.
We see no reason, in the record, for disturbing the conclusions of the master and the Circuit Court, that the entire commercial value of the valves made and sold by the defendant
was due to the improvement covered by the patent of 1866,.
and that the plaintiff's valves of commerce all of them contain
the improvements covered by the patent of. 1866. Moreover,
the master reports profits only, and finds that the plaintiff has.
suffered no damages in addition to the profits to be assessed
against the defendant. If there had been an award of damages, and the loss of trade by the plaintiff, in consequence of
the competition by the defendant, had been an element entering into those damages, it would have been a material :fact to
'eshownby the plaintiff that it was putting on the market.
goods embodying the Richardson invention, but, as the plaintiff recovers only the profits made by the defendant in using in
its business the Richardson iivention, it is immaterial whether
or not the plaintiff itself employed that invention. The

CROSBY VALVE CO. v. SAFETY VALVE CO.

453

Opinion of the Court.

profits made by the defendant cannot be increased or diminished by any act on the part of the plaintiff, and the amount
of them is not affected by the question whether during the
same time the plaintiff did or did not use the patented invention.
In regard to the holding by the master and the court that
all the profits of the defendant from the valves it made and
sold were to be attributed to the employment by it of the
improvement covered by the patent of 1866, we hold that, in
view of what was determined in the former opinion of this
court, and on the whole case, the safety-valves known to the
art and open to be used by the defendant would not do the
same work as the Richardson invention covered by the patent
of 1866, or have any commercial value, and that, within the
case of Garretson v. Clark, 111 U. S. 120, it appears, by reliable and satisfactory evidence, that the profits made by the
defendant are to be calculated in reference to the entire valve
made and sold by it, for the reason that the entire value of
that valve, as a, marketable article, is properly and legally
.attributable to the patented feature of the patent of 1866.
As to the assignment of error that the master did not ascertain what part of the profits derived by the defendant was
due to the patented improvements covered by the two patents
to Crosby, the master said, in his report, as before quoted
"Thl
defendants claim that some of the profits which they
have made are due to the peculiar form of their valves, but
the form which they used in making their valves, was the
form in which they clothed the Richardson invention, the life
of their valves, and without that life the Crosby form is worthless."
The defendant contends, that the master ought to
have found, upon the evidence, that, with the exception of an
allowance of a nominal sum for profits on account of the
Richardson invention, the profits of the defendant accrued
from its employment of the Crosby inventions. This contention was made before the master, and was overruled by him.
There was some evidence before the master relating to the
form of the Crosby valve, to the effect that it had an encased
spring, and was readily attached and adjusted, and that those

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

features of its construction were advantageous. The first
patent to Crosby does not show any encased spring, and while
the second patent to him shows an encased spring, its claims
relate solely to the features which produce and regulate the
recoil action of the steam. The master was correct, therefore,
in saying that the patented improvements of Crosby embodied
the form in which the defendant clothed the Richardson invention, the life of the defendant's valve, and without which the
Crosby form was worthless. There is no evidence that any
of the things patented by Crosby gave any advantage in selling the defendant's valve.
It appearing that the defendant's valve derived its entire
value from the use of the Richardson invention covered by
the patent of 1866, and that the entire value of the defendant's valve, as a marketable article, was properly and legally
attributable to that invention of Richardson, the plaintiff is
entitled to recover the entire profit of the manufacture and
sale of the valves. Elizabeth v. Pavement Company, 97 U. S.
126, 139, Root v Railway Company, 105 U. S.189, 203, Garretson v Clark, 111 U. S. 120, Callaghan v -Myers, 128 U S.
617, 665, 666, Iurlbut v Schillinger, 130 U. S. 456, 471, 472.
The defendant contends that the master and the Circuit
Court erred in disallowing as a credit to the defendant in diminution of the profits reported, the sum of $1978.34, it being.
contended that that was an expense suffered by the defendant
in modifying and reconstructing certain valves to render them
more perfect and more salable. These were valves made by
the defendant and destroyed by it before sale, or after a sale
and an exchange-for other valves: which destroyed valves did
not appear in the account on either side, thus becoming unsold
valves. The expense thus referred to is one incurred in making
experimental and defective valves.
In regard to this item, the master said in his report "Item
7 is for modification and reconstruction of iron valves. The
costs of the reconstructed valves have already been charged
in the costs of valves for the periods in which the reconstruction, so called. took place. The old valves were destroyed and
a salvage made of such parts as were of value or could be

CROSBY VALVE CO. v. SAFETY VALVE CO.

455

Opinon of the Court.

used, and new valves were made and their full costs charged
in the accounts of defendants. This item 7 is a claim for the
cost of the destroyed valves (whether with or without an
allowance for salvage I am unable to say) and should not be
allowed." In respect to this item, the defendant put in the
following claim before the master "Finding 8. The charge
found in item 7,in heading IV of defendants' account filed
with the master, is for the reconstruction and modification of
safety-valves made by them. The work of this modification
and reconstruction was in the direction of perfecting the
characteristics of the safety-valves they were then producing.
The result of such endeavor was that they prodtuced a species
of safety-valves, classified in the account as iron safety-valves,
which was made and sold after that time by the defendants,
the account of which has been fully rendered to the master,
and on which he has computed profits in his consideration of
them. In the labor and efforts of the defendants certain
valves were rendered useless and were valueless except for
junk, and certain parts of valves made for them and paid for
were rejected, and the difference between the original cost and
their value as old metal became a loss to the defendants. All
these losses occasioned by the destruction of valves, by the
replacing of valves in hands of buyers of valves by giving
them new valves for old ones without additional charge, and
by the destruction of parts of valves which could not be used
because of the modification of the design, were a part of the
expense suffered by the defendants in their valve business, in
the producing and manufacture of a marketable safety-valve
of the characteristics of the Crosby valve, and constituted a
wastage in their business which their valve department suffered for the purpose of making more salable products. This
loss was an item of expense which should be charged to the
cost of valves as such, because it became a charge upon
all the safety-valves thereafter made following the plan and
models which resulted from such loss. Upon inspection of
the records of the master, the defendants do not find thht they
have filed specifications of such loss, and, trusting to the belief
that their account, with the testimony, was sufficient and

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

proper in such respect, they evidently neglected so to do.
:Moreover, the examination of iMr. Crosby, the defendants'
superintendent at that time, by the complainants, upon that
item of their account, shows only the items ofloss in part.
This latter incomplete showing, which is now first noticed by
the defendants, was evidently overlooked, and thus the facts
making up the character of the loss were not properly and
fully laid before the master for ILs consideration. On this
account the defendants respectfully submit a statement of
facts, and request that they may introduce testimony, if necessary, in proof thereof." Here follows the statement. "Whenever valves have been accounted for as returned and the
master has deducted the returned valves from the sales and
costs the account then shows itself free from any profits on
such valves. The cost to the defendants of such valves remains
as a part of the expenses they have incurred in the making of
valves, and which, when they were destroyed, became a direct
loss to them and their business. It is for this actual loss so
sustained, decreasing their profits, which they now ask to have
allowed. The loss is inseparable from their whole valve business and belongs to it."
To this view, the master replied as follows, in his report
"It is clear, upon this statement, that no allowance should be
made to defendants for the sixty-nine valves which they made
and destroyed without selling or consigning them. The thirtyeight valves which were originally sold to Babcock & Wilcox
were accounted for both in costs and sales, but when new
valves were sent them to replace the returned valves, the new
valves were not included in defendants' accounts, either in
costs or sales. The twelve brass valves were returned and so
treated In the account. The result, therefore, is substantially
this, that the defendants made some one hundred and nineteen
valves which they subsequently destroyed, with some castings
which they concluded not to use. I find no sufficient reasons
for modifying my former disallowance of item 7 in each case."
In regard to this item, the Circuit Court said "As for the
objection to the findings of the master respecting expenses to
be allowed for certain valves destroyed, which forms the sub-

CROSBY VALVE CO. v. SAFETY VALVE CO.

457

Opinion of the Court.

ject matter of the first exception, I think the master was right
in the conclusion he reached.
The defendants were not
charged on valves which were subsequently destroyed, or, if
so, they were not charged upon the new valves which replaced
them. See master's note 29, page 43 of master's report. The
master properly disallowed the cost of destroyed valves."
Without going into details, it is sufficient to say that we
concur in the conclusion that the defendant was not charged
for valves which were subsequently .destroyed, or, if so, it was
not charged upon the new valves which replaced the destroyed
valves.
As for the contention that the destroyed valves ought to
form a eredit against the profits actually realized by the
defendant on other valves, it is sufficient to say that the only
subject of inquiry is the profit made by the defendant on the
articles which it sold at a profit, and for which it received payment, and that losses incurred by the defendant through its
wrongful invasion of the patent are not chargeable to the
plaintiff, nor can their amount be deducted from the compensation which the plaintiff is entitled to receive. The Cawood
Patent, 94 U. S. 695, Elizabeth v Pavement Co., 97 U S.
126, 138, Tilghman v. Proctor,125 U S. 136.
The Circuit Court allowed interest on the $40,344.59 from
the date of the filing of the master's .report. The defendant
assigns this as error, and contends that interest should have
been allowed only from the date of the decree. In support of
this view, the case of -Mowry v Whitney, 14 Wall. 620, 653, is
cited. But we regard it as established by the cases of Illinois
Central Railroadv Tarrill, 110 U S.301, 303, and Tilghman
v. Proctor,125 U. S. 136, 160, that the ruling as to "interest
made by the Circuit Court is proper. In the latter case, it is
said "By a uniform current of decisions of this court, beginning thirty years ago, the profits allowed in equity, for the
injury that a patentee has sustained by the- infringemetitk.of
his patent, have been considered as a measure of unliquidateddamages, which, as a general rule, and in tue absence of speciil.
circumstances, do not bear mterest until after their amount
hus been .judiciaUyascertained, and th ,proyjsion introduced

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinlon of the Court.

in"the patent act of 1870, regulating the subject of profits and

danages, made no mention of interest, and has not been
understood to affect the rule as previously announced. Silsby
v. Foote, 20 How 378, 387, .7owry v Whstney, 14 Wall. 620,
651, Littleield v Perry, 2t Wall. 205, 229, Act of July 8,
1870, c. 230, ยง 55, 16 Stat, 206, Rev. Stat. ยง 4921, Parts v
Booth; 102 U. S. 96, 106, Rai4oay Co; v Root, 105. U. S. 189,
198, 0Q, 204, Illinois Central Railroad v Turrill, 110 U. S.
301, 303. Nothing is shown to take this case out of the gen,eral rule. At.the time of the infringement, the fundamental
questions 0f the validity and extent of Tilghman's patent were
in earnest controversy and of uncertain issue. Interest should
therefore be allowed as in Blinows Central Railroadv Turrill,
:just cited, only from the day when the.master's report was
submitted to the court (which appears, by the terms of his
report and of the decree below, to have been October 7, 1884)
upon the amount shown to be due by that report and the
accompanying evidence."
Delay caused by the court, or not attributable to the plaintiff, -in coming to a conclusion on the master's report, where
the-amount found by. that report is confirmed, ought not to
deprive the plaintiff of interest on the amount found by the
master. Under such circumstances, the account ought to be
considered as liquidated on the day when the master's report
is filed. This is in analogy to the allowance of interest on the
amount of the verdict of a jury from the date of the verdict t&
the date of.the judgment, in accordance with the statutes of
many States, and among othere of Massachusetts. Pub. Stats.
c. 171, ยง 8.
The-decree of the Circuit Court is
Afflrmed.

The CMEF JusTo and Mn. JusTiE GRAY were not present
at the argument, and took no part in the decision of this case,

