OCTOBER TER-M, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

SEITZ v. BREWERS'

REFRIGERATING
COMPANY

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

MACHINE

STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 61. Argued October 29, 1891.- Decided November 9, 1891.

When a contract is couched in terms which import a complete legal obligation, with no uncertainty as to the object, or-extent of the engagement,
it is, (in the absence of fraud, accident or mistake,) conclusively to be
presumed that the whole engagement of the parties and the extent and
manner of their undertaking were reduced to writing.
Whether the written contract in this case fully expressed the terms of the
agreement between the parties was a question for the court; and silence
on a point that might have been embodied in it does not open the door
to parol evidence in that regard.
When a known, described and definite article is ordered of a manufacturer,
although it be stated by the purchaser to be required for a particular purpose, yet, if the known, described and definite thing be actually supplied,
there is no warranty that it shall answer the particular purpose intended
by the buyer.

THE

case was stated by the court as follows

This was an action brought by the Brewers' Refrigerating
Machine Company against Michael Seitz upon the following
contract
"This agreement, made this 11th day of January, A.D. 1879,
between the Brewers' Refrigerating Machine Company of
Alexandria, Va., party of the first part, and Michael Seitz, of
Brooklyn, N. Y., party of the second part, witnesseth
"That the party of the first part hereby agrees and contracts
to supply the party of the second part with a No. 2 size refrigerating m-chine, as constructed by the said party of the first
part, by the 15th day of March next, or as soon thereafter as
possible, the machine to be delivered at the depot or wharf in
Philadelphia, Penn., and to be put up and put in operation in
the brewery of the said party of the second part at 258-264:
Maujer street, at Brookiyn, E. D., N. Y., under the superinten-

SEITZ v. BREWERS' REFRIGERATING CO.

511

Statement of the Case.

dence of a competent man furnished by the said party of the
first part.
"The party of the second part hereby agrees and contracts
to pay to the said party of the first part for said machine the
sum of nine thousand four hundred and fifty dollars (89450.00)
in manner as follows, namely Four thousand seven hundred
and twenty-five dollars ($-725.00) on the day when the
machine is put in operation at the brewery of the said party
of the second part, and the balance of four thousand seven
hundred and twenty-five dollars ($4725) in three equal instalments - that is to say, one thousand five hundred and seventyfive dollars ($1575.00) for each instalment, payable respectively
in one (1), two (2) and three (3) months after the day when
the machine is put in operation at the brewery of the said
party of the second part, for which instalments the said party
of the second part agrees and contracts to give his notes on
the day last mentioned."
The complaint, after setting forth the execution of the contract on the 11th of January, A.D. 1879, alleged compliance
therewith in every respect by the plaintiff, and breach of the
promise to pay the purchase price.
The defendant stated in his answer, among other things,
"that the machine placed in defendant's brewery was worthless and incapable of operating to produce the results represented by plaintiff to this defendant as an inducement to enter
into ihe aforesaid agreement, that said machine has not been
accepted by this defendant nor operated or attempted to be
operated by defendant, his agents, employes, nor any other
person acting by or under his authority, and did not pass out
of the control of the plaintiff, nor has the said machine been
used by him in his said brewery, because said machine was
worthless and incapable of serving any useful purpose therein."
And defendant also averred, by way of counter-claim, that he
had sustained damages by reason of false and fraudulent representations by plaintiff as to what the machine would accomplish, in reliance upon which he had permitted his brewery to
be subjected to the action of said machine, and suffered loss
accordingly

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

Upon the trial before the circuit judge and a jury, plaintiff
proved that a No. 2 size refrigerating machine, as constructed
by the Brewers' Refrigerating Machine Company, was supplied
defendant,and put up and put in operation in his brewery, by
it, in accordance with the terms of the contract.
Defendant thereupon asked to amend his answer, "to set up
that defendant entered into that contract by reason of fraudulent representations on the part of this company" The amendment was allowed, and was in substance that plaintiff represented that the machine was capable of cooling certain rooms
in the brewery which had been examined by plaintiff, but the
machine, -vhen set up and operated, was not so capable, and
failed to perform the work for which, upon the representations of the plaintiff, the machine had been contracted for by
defendant, that defendant contracted to purchase the machine
upon the guarantee by plaintiff to defendant that it would
cool certain rooms, and it was upon that guarantee alone that
defendant entered into the contract, that defendant entered
into the contract upon the representations of the plaintiff to the
effect that the No, 2 machine referred to in the contract set
forth in the complaint would cool and was capable of cooling a
space of 150,000 cubic feet of air continuously to a temperature
sufficiently low for the purpose of brewing or manufacturing
beer in the defendant's brewery or premises, that is to say, to
a temperature in the neighborhood of 400 Fahrenheit, and
that the plaintiff knew at and before the time when the contract was made that the representations made to the defendant were false and unfounded, and knew that the said No. 2
machine was not capable of performing the work which
plaintiff represented it as being capable of performing, and
knew that the machine would be worthless to the defendant
for the purposes for which defendant contracted for it and
intended to ue it.
Evidence on defendant's behalf was then admitted tending
to show that prior to the execution of the contract, plaintiff's
agents had represented that the machine would cool 150,000
cubic feet to 40° Fahrenheit, that defendant had been cooling
his brewery with ice and wished the machine to cool the

SEITZ v. BREWERS' REFRIGERATING CO.

513

Statement of the Case.

rooms to about the same extent, and that the machine did
not cool the rooms as desired. On cross-examination of the
defendant's agent, it appeared that on January 13, 1879, he
wrote to the secretary of the refrigerating company "In
speaking to Mr. M. Seitz to-day he said that your agreement
was very unsatisfactory to him, in fact, that before he would
get the machine that lie wanted a written guarantee from you
that you would cool his building, which you have seen, to
3 R. and keep it at that all the time, otherwise he would
not have the machine, as he would have no use for it, as he
would have to put himself to great expense and great risk at
the same time." To which plaintiff responded, January 20"
"I regret to hear that Mr. Seitz feels dissatisfaction with the
contract made with him. The guarantee he now asks for in
addition it would not be proper for us to give, as Mr. Seitz
himself will see on further reflection, we think. The maintenance of a certain temperature in his rooms is not solely
dependent upon our machines; in fact, there are a great many
other things entirely beyond the control of the machine which
influence this temperature. The mode of working the rooms,
the water used for washing, the fernientation, and many other
things might be mentioned in this connection -as matters
which we cannot control, and which nevertheless are most
important considerations in the maintenance of a given temperature. We are confident from the experience with the
Portner machine during last summer and fall that the machine
sold to Mr. Seitz will not only give him the desired low temperature, but will, in addition, give him what he never before
had in the warmer months, namely, pure and dry'air. The
machine we are building for him is in many respects far superior (aside from size) to the Portner machine, and when he
has had it a year we believe he would not part with it for any
money if he could not replace it. That we must decline to
guarantee what Mr. Seitz asks for is simply for the reasons
stated. There are too many side considerations- entirely beyond the control of the machines. We would add that we
have not in any instance been asked for such a guarantee as a
condition of. sale, but that all the parties to whom we have
VOL. CXLx-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

sold bought on our representations and what they have seen
and heard of the working of the Portner machine."
On January 21, 1879, defendant's agent telegraphed plaintiff "Will you defend any infringement suits against Mr.
Seitz for using your machine 2 " and on January 23, 1819,
wrote "The .aachine sold to Mr. M. Seitz is all right, and
can be sent at any time that it is ready" On the 16th of
March, he again wrote plaintiff "Mr. Seitz would like to
have you to commence at once putting up his mathine."
The defendant having rested, the court, on motion, directed
a verdict for the plaintiff for the amount claimed.
The circuit judge remarked to the jury that the only defence worthy of consideration was that the machine was sold
to the defendant under fraudulent representations by the plaintiff's agents, but that there was no evidence of fraud whatever
in the case, that there was evidence to show that the machine
did not work satisfactorily, and the jury were doubtless authorized to infer that it did not have the capacity of cooling 150,000 cubic feet to the degree stated, but that there was a
written contract in the case, which contained no warranty,
:and, consequently, if the machine did not fulfil the expectations of the defendant, or if it did not fulfil verbal representation made at the time the contract was entered into, nevertheless
defendant had no defence, that there was no evidence that
false or fraudulent representations had-been made, that the
machine had been built and put up pursuant to the written
contract, and that the defendant could not be permitted, upon
the general theory that the machine was not a satisfactory
article, to defeat the plaintiff from recovery
The verdict having been rendered as directed, and judgment
entered thereon, the cause was brought here on writ of error.
H.- Ese Cowen for plaintiff in error.
I. The defence, set up in the amended answer, contained
no element of fraud, but was a sufficiently well expressed
pleading, setting up a contract of warranty, or guaranty,
collateral to thte contract of purchase and sale.

SEITZ v. BREWERS' REFRIGERATING 00.

515

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

II. The learned judge was entirely mistaken, in his supposition that the written contract precluded the proof of a parol
guaranty, collateral to the main contract of purchase and sale,
and -notin any way contradicting or modifying it.
The contract of purchase and sale was simply a contract to
sell and deliver on one part, and to purchase on the other
part, a machine of the general description, which the plaintiffs
were then constructing, and known as size No. 2. The sole
effect of the contract was to bind one party to deliver such a
machine, and to bind the other party to pay for it. It had
no other legal effect whatever, and a contract that the
machine after it was delivered, should do certain work, and
be capable of a certain operation, and should produce a certain effect, in no way contradicted, modified or added to the
original contract. It was purely collateral, and as such could
be proved by parol. This is the law in England. It is the
law of the State of New York, where this cause of action
arose, and where this case was brought and tried.
It is only necessary upon this point to cite a few of the
cases in which this question has been considered, and more
especially, as at least two -of the cases cited from the New
York Court of Appeals contain a very elaborate examination
of the question. Batterman v Pierce, 3 Hill, 171, Johnson
v Oppenhem, 55 N. Y 280, 293, Chaptn v .Dobson, 78
N.Y 74.
III. Aside from the express parol warranty or guaranty,
there was clearly an implied warranty, arising from the very
nature of the transaction, that this machine should be reasonablyjfit to accomplish the yurposefor whzch it was sold.
There is no doubt of the general rule that when a manufacturer enters into an executory contract to manufacture and
furnish a certain article to a purchaser, and fully knows the
purpose for which the article is intended, that there arises an
implied warranty that the article shall be reasonably fit for
the purpose for which the buyer intends to use it, and that it
shall, to a reasonable degree at least, accomplish the purpose
for which it was bought. There is some difference apparently,
in the decisions of the courts, with regard to the question of

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

how far this principle applies to an executed sale, but that it
applies to an executory sale, where the manufacturer is to make
and deliver the article at a future time, there can be no possible doubt. It is the rule in England, and so far as I know in
all the States, and beyond all question it is the rule in the State
of New York. Benjamin on Sales, § 988, and note, Brown
v. Edgington, 2 Man. & Gr. 279, Jones v Bright, 5 Bing. 533
Van Ifyck v Allen, 69 N. Y 61, Gautier v. .Douglas&-Mfg.
Co., 13 Hun, 514, Hoe v Sanborn, 21 N. Y 552, S. C. 78
Am. Dec. 163, Gaylord Mfg. Co. v Allen, 53 N. Y 515.
_Yr John -H. T7- Arnold for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF

JUSTICE

FULLER, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
If the defence were solely that the defendant was induced
by false and fraudulent representations to enter into the contract in question, it is conceded that the Circuit Court did not
err in directing a verdict for the plaintiff, as there was no evidence of fraud in the case. It is earnestly contended, however, that under the answer as amended, the defendant was
entitled to avail himself of the breach of an alleged, contract
of warranty or guaranty collateral to the contract of purchase
and sale, or of an implied warranty that the machine should
be reasonably fit to accomplish a certain result. Assuming
the sufficiency of the pleadings to enable the questions indicated to be raised, we are nevertheless of opinion that the
direction of the Circuit Court was correct.
The position of plaintiff in error is, in the first place, that
the evidence on his behalf tended to show an agreement
between himself and defendant in error, entered into prior to
or contemporaneously with the written contract, independent
of the latter and collateral to it, that the machine purchased
should have a certain capacity and should be capable of doing
certain work, that the machine failed to come up to the
requirements of such independent parol contract, that this
evidence was -competent, and that the case should therefore
have been left to the jury

SEITZ v. BREWERS' REFRIGERATING CO.

517

Opinion of the Court.

Undoubtedly the existence of a separate oral agreement as
to any matter on which a written contract is silent, and which
is not inconsistent with its terms, may be proven by parol, if
under the circumstances of the particular case it may properly
be inferred that the parties did not intend the written paper
to be a complete and final statement of the whole of the transaction between them. But such an agreement must not only
be collateral, but must relate to a subject distinct from that
to which the written contract applies, that is, it must not be
so closely connected with the principal transaction as to form
part and parcel of it. And when the writing itself upon its
face is couched in such terms as import a complete legal
obligation without any uncertainty as to the object or extent
of the engagement, it is conclusively presumed that the whole
engagement of the parties, and the extent and manner of their
undertaking, were reduced to writing. Green]. Ev § 275.
There is no pretence here of any fraud, accident or mistake.
The written contract was in all respects unambiguous and
definite. The machine which the company sold and which
Seitz bought was a No. 2 size refrigerating machine as constructed by the company, and such was the machine which
was delivered, put up and operated in the brewery A warranty or guaranty that that machine should reduce the temperature of the brewery to 400 Fahrenheit, while in itself
collateral to the sale, which would be complete without it,
would be part of the description and essential to the identity
of the thing sold, and to admit proof of such an engagement
by parol would be to add another term to the written contract,
contrary to the settled and salutary rule upon that subject.
Whether the written contract fully expressed the terms of
the agreement was a question for the court, and since it was
in this instance complete and perfect on its face, without
ambiguity, and embracing the whole subject-matter, it obviously could not be determined to be less comprehensive than
it was. And this conclusion is unaffected by the fact that it
did not allude to the capacity of the particular.machine. To
hold that mere silence opened the door to parol evidence ir
that regard would be to beg the whole question.

OCTOBER TERt\,

1891.

Opinion of the Court.

We are clear that evidence tending to show the alleged
independent collateral contract was inadmissible. -Martinv
Cole, 104: U. S. 30, Gilbert v .Moline Plough Co., 119 U. S.
491, Tlte Delaware, 14 Wall. 579, IVaumberg v Young, 44
N. J Law (15 Vroom) 331, Conant v -National State Bank,
fast v Pearce, 58 Iowa, 579, Thompson
121 Indiana, 3V3,
v Zibby, 34 Minnesota, 374, Wileon v. Deen,. 74 N. Y 531,
Robinson v itcIAeill, 51 Illinois, 225.
Failing in respect of the alleged express warranty, plaintiff
in error contends, secondly, that there was an implied warranty, arising from the nature of the transaction, that the
machine should be reasonably fit to accomplish certain results,
to effect which he insists the purchase was made. It is argued
that the evidence tended to establish that the plaintiff knew
that the defendant had been cooling his brewery with ice, and
that the object of obtaining the machine was to render unnecessary the expense of purchasing ice for that purpose, and
that unless the machine would cool it to the same extent, or
about the same, as the ice did, it would be worthless, so far as
he was concerned.
It is not denied that the machine was
constructed for refrigerating purposes, and that it worked and
operated as a refrigerating machine should, but it is said that
it did not so refrigerate as to reduce the temperature of the
brewery to 40' Fahrenheit, or to a temperature which would
enable defendant to dispense with the purchase of ice.
The rule invoked is, that where a manufacturer contracts
to supply an article which he manufactures, to be applied to a
particular purpose, so that the buyer necessarily trusts to the
judgment of the manufacturer, the law implies a promise or
undertaking on his part that the article so manufactured and
sold by him for a specific purpose, and to be used in a particular way, is reasonably fit and proper for the purpose for
which he professes to make it, and for which it is known to
be required, but it is also the rule, as expressed in the textbooks and sustained by authority, that where a known,
described and definite article is ordered of a manufacturer,
although it is stated by the purchaser to be required for a particular purpose, still, if the known, described and definite

SEITZ v. BREWERS' REFRIGERATING CO.

519

Opinion of the Court.

thing be actually supplied, there is no warranty that it shall
answer the particular purpose intended by the buyer. Benjamin on Sales, § 657, Addison on Contracts, Book II, c. vii,
p. *977, Ohanter v Hop ns, 4 M. & W 399; Olltvant v
Bayley, 5 Q. B. 288, Dist. of Columbza v Clephane, 110 U S.
212, Kellogg Brdge Company v. ilamilton, 110 U. S. 108,
Hoe v Sanborn, 21 N. Y 552, Deming v. Foster, 42 N. Hl.
165.
In the case at ,bar the machine purchased was specifically
designated in the contract, and the machine so designated was
delivered, put up and put in operation in the brewery The
only implication in regard to it was that it would perform the
work the described machine was made to do, and it is not contended that there was any failure in such performance.
This is not the case of an alleged defect in the process of
manufacture known to the vendor but not to the purchaser,
nor of presumptive and justifiable reliance by the buyer on the
judgment of the vendor rather than his own, but of a purchase
of a specific article, manufactured for a particular use, and fit,
proper and efficacious for that use, but in respect to the opera
tion of which, in producing a desired result under particular
circumstances, the buyer found himself disappointed.
In short, there was no express warranty that the machine
would cool 150,000 cubic feet of atmosphere to 400 Fahrenheit,
or any other temperature, without reference to the construction of the particular brewery or other surrounding circumstances, and, if there were no actual warranty, none could be
imputed.
We may add, that in the light of all the evidence in the
record, treated as competent, we think no verdict could be
permitted to stand, which procetded upon the ground of the
existence of such a warranty as is contended for. The alleged
antecedent representations as to whether the machine possessed sufficient refrigerating power to cool this brewery, were
no more than expressions of opinion, confessedly honestly
entertained, and dependent upon other elements than the
machine itself, concerning which plaintiff in error could, form
an opinion as well as defendant, and the conduct of plaintiff

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

in error in demanding, two days after the contract was executed, a written guaranty that the machine company would
cool his building to 3 ° Reaumur (or 400 Fahrenheit), and keep
it at that all the time, and in acquiescing in the company's
refusal to give the guaranty for reasons stated, and in thereupon afterwards ordering the company to go on with the work,
as exhibited in the correspondence between the parties, seems
to us to justify no other conclusion than that reached by the
verdict.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is
Affirined.
MR. JusTIcE BRADLEY and IR. JusTicE GRAY were not present at the argument and took no part in the decision of this
case.

METROPOLITAN NATIONAL BANK v. CLAGGETT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 1064. -Submitted OctQber 19, 1S91. - Decided November 9, 1891.
When a state bank acting under a statute of the State calls in its circulation issued under state laws, and becomes a national bank under the laws
of the United States, and a judgment is recovered in a court of the
State against the national bank upon such outstanding circulation, the
defence of the state statute of limitations having been set up, a Federal
question arises which may give this court 3urisdiction in error.
The conversion of a state bank in New York into a national bank, under the
act of the Leaislature of that State of March 9, 1865 (N. Y. Laws of
1865, c. 97) did not destroy its identity or its corporate existence, nor
discharge it as a national bank from its liability to holders of its outstanding circulation, issued in accordance with state laws.
The provisions in the statute of New York of April 11, 1859 (Laws of 1859,
c. 236) as to the redemption of circulating notes issued by a state bank
and the release of the bank if the notes should not be presented within
six years'do not apply to a state bank converted into a national bank
under the act of March 9, 1865, and not "-closing the business of
banking."
THE

court stated the case as follows

This was a motion to dismiss a writ of error to the Supreme
Court of the State of New York to review its judgment

