ST. LOUIS &c. RAILWAY v. McBRIDE.
Opinion of the Court.

ST. LOUIS AND SAN FRANCISCO RAILWAY COMPANY '. McBRIDR1
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 1712.

Submitted May 11, 1891. -Decided

May 25,1891.

The only question open in a case brought up under the act of February 25,
1889, 25 Stat. 693, c. 236, where the judgment does not exceed $5000, is
the question of jurisdiction of the court below.
In the Indian Territory a right of action survives against a railroad company inflicting injuries upon a passenger which result in death.
When a defendant sued in a Circuit Court of the United States appears and
pleads to the merits, he wavves any right to challenge thereafter the
jurisdiction of the court on the ground that the suit has been brought in
the wrong district.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

.M- Gerge R. Peck, 2fr . D.. Jenna,-MrA. T Bqitton
and .& A. B. Browne for plaintiff in error.
_Yr A. H. Garlandfor defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE BREWFR

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action commenced by the filing of a complaint
on September 19, 1890, m the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Western District of Arkansas. The defendants
in error were plaintiffs aelow They alleged that they were
respectively the widow and children of James A. McBride,
deceased, and his next of kin and heirs at law, and that there
were no personal representatives of the said deceased. They
further alleged that they were citizens and residents of the
Western District of Arkansas, that the railway defendant
was a corporation and citizen of the State of Missouri, doing
business in the State of Arkansas and the Indian Territory,
owning, maintaining and operating a line of railway through
said States and Territory, that on the 20th day of July, 1890,

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

the deceased, James A. McBride, was in the employ of defendant, and that on that day, and in the Indian Territory, while

at work as a brakeman on a freight train, he was, through the
negligence of said defendant, so injured that on the 22d day
of July he died. The compJlaint further disclosed the circumstances under which the accident occurred, alleged the dependence of the plaintiffs upon the deceased for support. and prayed
judgment for twenty thousand dollars damages.
The record contains no process, or service thereof. On the
4th day of November, 1890, the defendant filed a demurrer,
on three grounds, as follows: "1st. Because the court has no
jurisdiction of the person of the defendant. 2d. Because the
court has no jurisdiction of the subject matter of the action.
3d. Because the complaint does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action." This demurrer was overruled,
and in January, 1891, a trial was had, resulting in a verdict
for plaintiffs in the sum of four thousand dollars. No answer
appears in-the record, though it is proper to say that counsel
for defendants in error, in their brief, state that service of process was made upon the defendant by delivering a copy to its
station agent at Fort Smith, Arkansas, and that an answer
was filed denying the defendant's negligence, and setting up
also contributory negligence on the part of the deceased, but
not denying any of the allegations in respect to the citizenship
and residence of the parties. The fact of an answer seems
also to be implied from the record of the trial, which recites
that "after all the evidence had been introduced by both parties to maintain their respective issues, etc." Judgment was
entered on the verdict for the sum of four thousand dollars,
and of this judgment plaintiff in error complains.
As the judgment did not exceed five thousand dollars, the
case can only come to this court on the question of the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court. 25 Stat. 693, c. 236, .McCormsTc
Hamvestrng Machmne Co. v Waltkers, 134 U. S. 41.
The action was one to recover money, the sum claimed being
in excess of two thousand dollars, and was between citizens
of different States, and was brought in the district and State
of the residence of the plaintiffs. It was a case, therefore,

ST. LOUIS &c. R AILWAY v. McBRIDE.
Opinion of the Court.

within the general jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts of the
United States, under section 1 of chapter 866, 25 Stat. 433,
and if the jurisdiction was founded only on the fact that the
action was between citizens of different States it was brought
in the Circuit Court of a proper district.
The contention of plaintiff in error is, that the jurisdiction
is not founded only on the matter of diverse citizenship, but
that it is an action based upon a statute of the United States,
and to enforce a right given solely by such statute, and is
therefore one which must be brought in the district of which
the defendant was an inhabitant. Its contention goes further
than this. It insists that under a proper construction of the
United States statutes there was no cause of action existing
in favor of the plaintiffs. It will be observed that the action
is one to recover damages for the wrongful acts of defendant,
in causing the death of the husband and father of the respective,plaintiffs. Such an action did not survive at common law
The wrongful acts of defendant were done in the Indian Terrtory On -May 2, 1890, an act was passed by Congress with
respect to the Territory of Oklahoma and the Indian Territory Act of May 2, 1890, 26 Stat. 81, c. 182. The 31st section extended over the Indian Territory the provisions of
certain specified statutes of Arkansas, among them one chapter relating to "pleadings and practice, chapter 119," and
in that chapter, by sections 5225 and 5226, it is provided that
in case of injuries causing death, a right of action survives,
the statute being substantially like that now in force. in most
States of the Union. The plaintiff in error contends that the
effect of the act of Congress extending this chapter -over the
Indian Territory was not to put in force therein all its sections,
but only those relating to pleadings and practice, and that,
therefore, there being no other law than the common law in
force in the Indian Territory,-the complaint stated no cause
of action. And further, as heretofore stated, that, if those
sections in respect to the surviving of actions were extended
to the Territory, the action was founded on the statute of the
,United States alone, and such an action must be brought m
the district of which the defendant is an inhabitant.
VOL. C X-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

The first of these questions is not open to inquiry in this
case. The complaint making no reference to the Federal
statute, alleges wrongful acts on the part of the defendant,
and prays to recover damages therefor. Whether upon those
facts the plaintiffs are entitled to recover is not a matter of
jurisdiction, but. one of the merits of the controversy Suppose in a State where there is no statute providing for the
surviving of such an action a suit is brought by the widow
and children of a deceased person, alleging that his death was
caused by the wrongful act of the defendant, and the defendant having been served with process enters its appearance and
denies all liability, and the trial court improperly holds that
there was liability and renders judgment for damages, is there
anything other than a matter of erroneous ruling upon the
merits2 Could it be held that the court had no jurisdiction,
no iight to hear and determine the controversy between the
parties 9 So, here, whether there was or was not a statute in
force in the Indian Territory, providing that an action should
survive in case of death, and whether upon the facts stated in
the complaint the plaintiffs had a cause of action against the
defendant, were questions entering into the merits of the controversy, and not matters affecting the jurisdiction of the
court. If it had jurisdiction of the parties, it had the right to
inquire and determine whether upon those facts the plaintiffs
were entitled to judgment.
N feither can the other contention of plaintilt in error be
sustained. Assuming that service of process was made, although the record contains no evidence thereof, and that the
defendant did not voluntarily appear, its first appearance was,
not to raise the question of jurisdiction alone, but also that of
the merits of the case. Its demurrer, as appears, was based
on three grounds. Two referring to the question of jurisdiction, and the third, that the complaint did not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action. There was, therefore, in the first instance, a general appearance to the merits.
If the case -was one of Yhich the court could take jurisdiction,
such an appearance waives not only all defects in the service,
but all special privileges of the defendant in respect to the
particular court in which the action is brought.

ST. LOUIS &c. RAILWAY v. McBRIDE.
Opimon of the Court.

The first part of section 1 of the act of 1887, as amended in
1888, gives, generally, to the Circuit Courts of the United
States jurisdiction of controversies between citizens of differ,ent States where the matter in dispute exceeds the sum of two
thousand dollars exclusive of interest and costs. Such a controversy was presented in this complaint. It was, therefore, a
controversy of which the Circuit Courts of the United States
have jurisdiction. Assume that it is true, as defendant alleges,
that this is 4ot a case in which jurisdiction is founded only on
the fact that the controversy is between .citizens of different
States, but that it coms within the scope of that other clause,
which provides that "no civil suit shall be brought before
either of said courts, against any person, by any original process or proceeding, in any other district than that whereof he
is an inhabitant," still the right to insist upon suit only in the
one district is a personal privilege which he may waive, and
he does waive it by pleading to the merits. In Eveparte ScholZenerger, 96 U. S. 369, 378, Chief Justice Waite said. "The
act of Congress prescribuig the place where a person may be
sued is not one affecting the general jurisdiction of the courts.
It is rather in the nature of a personal exemption in favor of
a defendant, and it is one which he may waive." The judiciary
act of 1789, ยง 11, 1 Stat. 79, besides giving general jurisdiction
to Circuit Courts over suits between citizens of different States,
further provided, generally, that no civil suit should be
brought before either of said courts, against an inhabitant of
the Uftited Statesby any original process, in any other district than that of which he was an inhabitant, or in which
he should be found. In the case of Toland v prague, 12
Pet. 300, 330, it appeared that the defendant was not an inhabitant of the State in which the suit was brought, nor found
therein. In that case the court observed "It appears that
the party appeared and pleaded to issue. Now, if the case
were one of a want of jurisdiction in the court, it would not,
according to well-established principles, be competent for the
parties by any acts of theirs to give it. But that is not the
case. The court had jurisdiction over the parties and the
matter in dispute, the objection was that the party defendant,

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

not being an inhabitant of Pennsylvania, nor found therein,
personal process could not reach him.
Now, this was
a personal privilege or exemption, which it was competent for
the party to waive. The cases of Pollardv Dw ht, 4 Cranch,
421, and Barry v Foyles, 1 Pet. 311, are decisive to show
that, after appearance and plea, the case stands as if the suit
were brought in the usual manner. And the first of these
cases proves that exemption from liability to process, and that
in case of foreign attachment, too, is a personal privilege,
which may be waived, and that appearing and pleading will
produce that waiver." In Lextngton v Butler, 14 Wall. 282,
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court over a controversy between citizens of different States was sustained in a case removed from the state court, although it was conceded that
the suit could not have been commenced in the first instance
in the Circuit Court. See also Claflin v Commonwealth Zns.
Co., 110 U. S. 81.
Without multiplying authorities on this question, it is obvious that the party who in the first instance appears and pleads
to the merits waives any right to challenge thereafter the
jurisdiction of the court on the ground that the suit has been
brought in the wrong district. Carlotte Nat. Bank v .Morgan, 132 U. S. 141, Fitzgerald Constructwn Co. v. Fitzgerald,
137 U. S. 98.
It follows from these considerations that the Circuit Court
had jurisdiction, and, as that is the only question before us,
the judgment must be

BRIGGS v. SPAULDING.
APPEAL FROM THE CI CIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 185. Argued March 3, 4, 1891.-Decided May 25, 191.

The degree of care required of directors of corporations depends upon the
subject to which it is to be applied, and each case is to be determined In
view of all the circumstances.

