OCTOBER TER,

1891.

Syllabus.

MOLINE PLOW COMPANY v. WEBB.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No.1227. Submitted October 19,1891.-Decided November 9, 1891.

An action was brought upon three promissory notes with iterest payable
annually, each providing that if not paid when due it was to bear the rate
of interest of the principal, "it being expressly agreed that in default
of payment of interest when due the principal is to become due and collectible." Each note recited the fact that it was secured by a deed of trust
executed to a named trustee on certain described property. The deed described the notes and declared. "provided, however, it is agreed that if
at any time said interest shall remain unpaid for as much as ninety days
after the same shall become due and payable then the whole debt as well
as the interest shall become and be due and payable, and further it is understood and agreed that if said note first falling due shall remain unpaid
thereafter for as much as six months then the whole debt is to be and become due and payable, and this trust, in either event, to be executed and
foreclosed, at the option of said third party." It also contained a clause
to the effect that if the money due on the notes was not paid "according
to the tenor and effect of said notes in hand, and according to the terms,
stipulations and agreements of this instrument," the deed should remain
in force, and the trustee, or in the event of his death or refusal to act,
"then at the request of the holder of said notes, the sheriff
may
proceed to sell said described property, or any part thereof, at public
vendue, to the highest bidder for cash,
"and shall receive the proceeds of said sale, out of which shall be paid, first, the costs and expenses
of executing this trust, including compensation to said trustee, or said
sheriff for his services, and next to the said third party or holder of said
note whatever sum of money may be due thereon, and the remainder, if
any shall be paid to the said parties 6f the first part, or their legal representatives." The statute of Texas provided that "actions for debt where
the indebtedness is evidenced by or founded upon any contract in writing, must be commenced and prosecuted within four years after the cause
of action accrued, and not afterwards." The case was heard by the court,
and a general finding made. No bill of exceptions was signed. Held,
(1) The error in this case was one of law, apparent on the record, and
need not have been presented by bill of exceptions;
(2) Construing the notes and the deeds as contemporaneous agreements,
relating to the same subject matter, the limitation of four years
under the law of Texas ran from the dates named in the respective notes, as the dates of maturity,- and not from the date of the

MOLIN-E PLOW CO. v. WEBB.
Statement of the Case.
default in the payment of interest; otherwise, if the option given
to the payee or holder by the deed of trust, to make them due upon
such default, had been exercised by the payee or the holder.

Ti court stated the case as follows
This action was brought October 31, 1889, to recover the
amount due on three promissory notes, each for the sum of
two thousand dollars, executed January 21, 1882, by John
A. Webb and J. W Webb, composing the firm of John A.
Webb & Bro., and payable, with interest from date at eight
per cent per annum, to S. W Wheelock or order on the first
days, respectively, of November, 1885, 1886 and 1887. The
original petition alleged that the notes prior to their maturity
were endorsed, in due course of trade, to the Mfoline Flow
Company, a corporation of the State of Illinois.
The first of the notes was in this form "1$2000. Austin ,
Texas, January 21, 1882. On or before the first day of
November, 1885, we promise to pay to S. W Wheelock, or
order, at Austin, Texas, two thousand dollars, for value received of him, with interest from this date till paid at the rate
of eight per cent per annum, said interest being due and payable annually, and -if not paid when due to bear the same rate
of interest as principal, it -being expressly agreed that in
default of payment of interest when due that the principal is
to become due and collectible. This note is secured by a deed
of trust this day executed by us to E. A. Wright, trustee, on
10 feet off of the east side of lot No. 3, all of-lot No. 4' and
23 feet off of west side of lot No. 5, all in-block-No. 68, on
East Pecan street, in the city of Austin. John A. Webb,
J. W Webb, composing firm of Jno. A. Webb & Bro." The
following payments were endorsed on the -note. $6.48, October 19, 1883, $250, February 3, 1888, $250, September 15,
1888. The other two notes differed from the first one only
in their dates of maturity
The deed of trust referred to in the notes conveyed the real
estate therein described in tpust for the following purposes
"Whereas, the said first parties [Webb .&Co.]are, ndebted
to the said third party [the payee] in the sum of six thousand

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

($6000.00) dollars evidenced by three promissory notes of even
date with these presents, executed by said first parties to said
third party each for two thousand ($2000.00) dollars and due
respectively on the first of November, 1885, the first of November, 1886, and the first of November, 1887, each bearing interest at the rate of eight per cent payable annually, on the said
21st day Qf January of. each year, provided, however, it is
.agreed that if at any time said interest shall remain unpaid
for as much as ninety days after the same shall become due
and payable then the whole debt as well as the interest shall
become and be due and payable, and further it is understood
and agreed that if said note first falling due shall remain unpaid thereafter for as much as six months, then the whole
debt is to be and become due and payable, and this trust, in
either event, to be executed and foreclosed, at the option of
said third party" It also contained a clause to the effect that.
if the money due on- the notes was not paid "according to
.the tenor and effect of said notes of hand, and according to
the terms, stipulations and agreements of this instrument," the
deed should be void, and the trustee, or in the event of his.
death or refusal to act, "then, at the request of the holder of
said notes, the sheriff
may proceed to sell said described property, or any part thereof, at public vendue, to the
highest bidder for cash,
and shall receive the proceeds of said sale, out of which hall be paid, first, the costs
and expenses of executing this trust, including compensation
to said trustee, or said sheriff, for his services, and next to
the said third party or holder of said note whatever sum of
money-may be due thereon ana the remainder, if any, shall
be paid to the said parties of the first part, or their legal representatives."
To the original petition (which described the notes generally
without setting out either them or the deed of trust) the defendants demurred, and at the same time answered, denying
all and singular its allegations, and pleading in bar of the
action the statute of Texas providing that actions- for debt,
where the indebtedness is evidenced by or founded upon any
contract in writing, must be commenced and prosecuted within

MOLINE PLOW CO. v. WEBB.
Statement of the Case.

four years after the cause of action accrued, and not afterards. 2 Sayles's Texas Civil Statutes, Art. 3205.
The plaintiff, by way of answer to the plea of limitation,
filed a supplemental petition, exhibiting, as part of it, the notes
in suit, the deed of trust, and the following communication
from the defendants to its attorneys
"Austin, Texas, Feb. 3, 1888.
"West & McGown, Austin, Texas.
"Dear Sirs We will pay you $250.00 in cash and $250.00
on Sept. 15, '88, if you will stay suit on the Moline Plow Co.
claims until Jan., '89. In the event of our failure to pay
$250.00 in Sept., your obligation to stay till Jan. 1, '89, will
be at an end. If we do, we are to have till Jan. 1, '89, to
raise $1000.00 and take up the first note, due Nov 1, '85.
"Jwo. A. WEBB & BRo."

The supplemental petition proceeded upon two grounds:
1. That the owner and holder of the notes never having exercised the option of declaring them due and payable in advance
of the dates specified in them, namely, the first days of November, 1885, 1886 and 1887, limitation would not bar an action
until four years after those respective dates. 2. That by the
two payments of February 3, 1888, and September 15, 1888,
the defendants recognized the notes as subsisting obligations,
such payments, it was alleged, being made and accepted for
the sole purpose of giving the defendants time to settle thenotes, and being especially based on the agreement of February 3, 1888, which, the plaintiff insists, was both an acknowledgment that the debt evidenced by the notes was just, due
and unpaid, and a promise to pay it. The latter proposition
was based upon the statute of Texas, providing that "when an
action may appear to be barred by a law of limitation, no
acknowledgment of the justness of the claim made subsequent
to the time it became due shall be admitted in evidence to
take the case out of the operation of the law, unless such
acknowledgment be in writing and signed by the party to be
charged thereby" 2 Sayles's Texas Civil Statutes, Art. 3219.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Defendants m Error.

By way of reply to the supplemental petition the defendants answered that they never in any manner acknowledged
the notes sued on to be binding and subsisting obligations;
that neither. the notes nor the deed of trust gave plaintiffs any
option as to the maturity of the notes that if plaintiffs had
any option whatever it related only to the property described
in the deed of trust, and that no part of the interest on the
notes was paid within ninety days after the same became due,
whereupon the notes, both as to principal and interest, became
,due more than four years before the institution of this suit,
consequently, it was insisted, all right of action on them was
barred by limitations.
A jury having been properly waived the case was heard by
the court, which found that the notes sued on were barred by
the statute of limitations of four years; that the new promise,
dated February 3, 1888, applied only to the extent of $1000
from January 1, 1889, and no more, and to that extent was
binding on defendants.
Judgment was accordingly rendered for the plaintiff against
the defendant for $1090, with interest from the date of the
judgment, and the plaintiff sued out this writ of error.
.A[r Henry Wise Garnettfor plaintiff in error.
SA

3fartin.F 3orrms for defendants in error.

I. The findings of the court are conclusive in this case.
Those findings are either general or special. On the part of
the defendants, it is respectfully submitted that the findings
are merely general findings of the issues in favor of the defendants, except to the extent of $1000; and general findings
of a trial court are not and cannot be the subject of review
here.
The issues made by the parties were three 1st. The gen,era1 issue, which need not be regarded here. 2d. The plea of
limitations. 3d. The question of a new promise. The finding
of the court upon the second and third issues was "that the
:16tes sued on were barred by the statute of limitations of
four years," and "that the new promise,, dated February 3,

MOLINE PLOW C0. v. WEBB.
Argument for Defendants m Error.

1888, applied only to the extent of $1000 from January 1,
1889, and no more." These certanly are general findings.
They are not determinations of any special facts tending to
determine the issues, but general determinations of the issues
themselves; and, if they are general findings, the uniform and
repeated decisions of this court are to the effect that they cannot be reviewed here, except on the rulings of the court made
in the progress of the trial.
Tors v Tacksonj, 9 Wall. 125,
Cooper v Omokundro, 19 Wall. 65., Otoe County v Baldwzn,
111 U. S. 1, .7iartintonv. Fabanks, 112 U. S. 670, Santa
Anna v Frank, 113 U. S. 339.
And as there are no bills of exceptions, and no rulings of
the court during the trial in any way excepted to, there is no
review possible in any aspect of the case.
II. But whether the findings are general or special, they
are conclusive of the facts found. Only in the case of special
findings can the court review the sufficiency of the facts found
to support the judgment. fercantile Ins. Co. v Folsom, 18
Wall. 237, Dwk'nson v Planters'Bank, 16 Wall. 250, Boardman v Tofey, 117 U. S. 271.
Now, if these findings are special findings of fact, and they
are to be taken as conclusively true, it cannot reasonably be
contended that the judgment was not what it ought to have
been. It is too plain for argument that the judgment could
not have been otherwise than as it is.
III. We can scarcely suppose that this court will go behind
the findings in this case, whether those findings are general
or special. There is nothing on which to base a review of the
correctness of those findings. The testimony in the case is
not given, nor is there any statement of its purport. There
are no exceptions to rulings of the court in the progress of the
trial, and it nowhere appears what those rulings were.
But even if we supposed, in opposition to the plain statement of the record, that there was no testimony or evidence
in the case, and that the case was submitted upon the pleadings alone and the exhibits which are made part of them, the
findings of the court even then are right and proper. It is
very evident that the whole alleged indebtedness, under the

OCTOBER TERM, :1891.
Opinion of the Court.

special terms of the collateral agreement, had become due and
payable when the first default of interest occurred, especially
as the notes themselves by their terms were payable "on or
before" a certain specified time -that is, at any time at the
option of the maker. The holder could have brought suit for
the whole(indebtedness when that default occurred, and the
courts of Texas have uniformly held that the statute begins to
run from the time when the plaintiff could sue. Walling v
Wheeler, 39 Texas, 480.
An as to the alleged acknowledgment and new promise
contained in a letter written by the defendants, under date of
February 3, 1888, if that letter is to be taken as proved merely
by being made an exhibit to a pleading, and -if there was no
other proof on the subject, it is evident that the court was
entirely right in restricting the effect of this letter to the sum
of one thousand dollars. It would be a most violent construction that would torture this letter into an admission of
indebtedness and a willingness to pay to a greater extent than
that , for, under the decisions of the courts of Texas, (Coles
v. Kelsey, 2 Texas, 541, S. C. 47 Am. Dec. 661, is the leading
case on the subject), which are in entire harmony and conformity w'ith the doctrine of this court upon the subject, an acknowledgment of debt, in order to amount to a new promise, must
express willingness to pay, and certainly an expression of willingness to pay $1000 is neither an expression nor, an implication of willingness to pay more than $1000.
M .JUSTICE HARLAx, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
Although the record recites that the case was heard upon
the pleadings and evidence, it does not appear that any oral
testimony was introduced. No bill of exceptions was signed,
and the finding by the court was general, stating only its conclusions of law The defendant, therefore, contends that there
is nothing before this court for review
This position cannot be sustained. The notes, upon which
the action is based, and the deed of trust filed with and made

MOLINE PLOW CO. v. WEBB.
Opinion of the Court.

a part of the supplemental petition -their execution not havmg been denied by the defendants under oath -are to be
taken, without proof, as genuine instruments notwithstanding
the general denial in the original answer of all and singular
the allegations of the petition. 1 Sayles's Texas Civil Statutes,
Art. 1265, and authorities cited m 2 Peticolas's Index-Digest
of Texas Civil Cases, p. 1024. We have seen that the notes
matured, respectively, on the first days of November, 1885,
1886 and 1887. As this action was brought within less than
four years after November 1, 1885, the defence of limitation although it was stipulated in each note that on default in the
payment of interest at maturity the principal was to become
due and collectible - is without foundation as to any of the
notes, unless the principal of each note became due, without
regard to the wishes of the payee or holder, either immediately upon default in paying interest, or after the expiration
of ninety days from such default. Whether that view be
sound or not depends upon the terms of the note and the deed
of trust, and could not be affected by the testimony of witnesses. In refusing judgment for the entire amount of the
notes, less the admitted credits, the court below necessarily
proceeded on the ground that, independently of any option
upon the part of the plaintiff, the notes became absolutely due
and collectible at one or the other of the dates just mentioned,
and consequently the action on them was barred. If this is
error, it is one apparent on the record, and need not have been
presented by a bill of exceptions. Bat. & Potomac RailPoad v Trustees 6th Presby. Church, 91 U. S. 127, Bennett v.
Butterworth, 11 How 669, 675, Young v. 3fartin, 8 Wall. 354,
357, Clinton v. Missourz PajFw Railway, 122 U S. 469, 474.
We are of the opinion that the court erred in not rendering
judgment for the full amount of the notes, less the sums
admitted in the. petition to have been paid. Walling v.
Theeler, 39 Texas, 480, is cited by the defendants in support of the opposite view But that case only announces the
general rule that limitation begins to run from the time the"
plaintiff could sue.
A leading case in the Supreme Court of Texas on this sub-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

ject is Harrmsom A[achtne Works v 1?ezgor, 64 Texas, 89.
That was an action upon promissory notes, payable at different
dates, each containing an agreement to the effect that "a failure to pay that note when due should mature both notes." The
note first falling due was not paid at maturity, and more than
four years elapsed without suit. The question was presented
whether limitation on the note last falling due commenced
upon default in the payment of the one first maturing. It
was held that it did, the court, saying "That the effect of
the agreement was to authorize suit or give a right of action
upon the last note at the same time that it could be commenced
upon the first cannot be doubted. By the express terms of
our statute of limitation it commences to run from the time
when the cause of action accrues. It is immaterial from what
cause a note becomes due so far as the right of the holder
If the holder of a
to enforce it by suit is concerned.
note may, at his option, treat the claim as due at a later date
than the maker has agreed that it shall mature, and thus prescribe a different dater at which it shall be barred, the evidence
for its enforcement may be preserved, whilst that for its resistance may be destroyed, and thus the purpose of the statute
be wholly defeated." After referring to Hemp v Garland,
4 Q. B. 519, as sustaining that view, but recognizing the fact
that that case had been somewhat criticised on the ground that
the facts brought it within the principle that no one is bound
to take advantage of a forfeiture, Wood on Limitations, 296,
the court proceeds "Admitting this to be a correct view, it
cannot affect the present case. Here no option was left to the
creditor; he was forced to treat the debt as due. It is true
he was not obliged to bring suit upon it upon default in payment of the first note; neither is any creditor compelled to
sue upon a claim so soon as it becomes due. But the statute
was put in motion without consulting his wishes, by the very
terms of the contract, which neither party had any right to
change without the consent of the other. When suit is left to
the option of the creditor, and he fails to bring his action for
the whole debt upon the non-payment of one instalment, the
debtor may possibly be authorized to construe this as an ex-

MOLI NE PLOW CO. v. WEBB.
Opinion of the Court.

ercise of option in favor of postponing the maturity of the
unpaid instalments. He may be justified in supposing that if
he had incurred a forfeiture, the creditor had elected not to
take any advantage of it, and may be chargeable with knowledge that limitation would be computed accordingly But if
the creditor cannot postpone the maturity of the debt, and
hence cannot waive the forfeiture, if such it can .be termed,
the debtor cannot, of course, be charged with notice that he
has done so."
Accepting this decision as giving the rule to be observed in
the interpretation of the local statute, it remains to inquire
whether, upon the mere default in payment of interest, or
upon such default continuing for ninety days, limitation began to run, without regard to any option upon -the part of
the payee or the holder of the notes. In determining whether
the payee or the holder of the notes was compelled to treat.
them as due and collectible upon such default, we are to look
at the deed of trust, and treat it and the notes as one instrument, or as contemporaneous agreements relating to the samesubject matter. The deed refers to the notes, and is itself
referred to in each note, and may be examined to ascertain
the real intention of the parties. Looking alone at the first.
clause of the notes, there would be some ground, under the.
case last cited, for holding, with respect to each note, that it
would become due and collectible, without regard to the.
wishes of the holder, immediately upon default in paying
iterest. But this could not have been intended, because thedeed of trust, referring to the several notes, provides for the
whole debt, as well as the interest, becoming due and payable,
if at any time the interest shall remain unpaid, after maturity,
for as much as ninety days. We think, however, that the.
words in the deed of trust," at the option of said .third party,"
the payee or holder of the notes, refer not only to a foreclosure, but equally to the clauses in the notes and in the deed of
trust relating to the maturity of the principal, in the case of
a default in the payment of interest. In other words, theprincipal, in either of the contingencies named, might become
due and payable in advance of the time specifically named in
VOL. CXLi--40

OCTOBER TERM1,

1891.

Opunon of the Court.

the respective notes, at the option of the payeee or holder.
If this be not the correct interpretation, it. would follow
that the payee or holder of the notes, notwithstanding the
words "at the option of said third party,"-which words
are admitted to have given an option, at least, as to the forebe compelled to bring
closure of the deed of trust -would
hia suit for forclosure within four years from default in the
payment of interest at maturity, or at least within four years
after the expiration of ninety days from such default. We say
this, because it was the law of Texas, when the notes in suit
were executed, that if the debt secured by a mortgage or deed
of trust was barred, the creditor was without remedy by foreclosure. E-oell v Daggs, 108 U S. 143, 147, .borm v Cannon)s Admr, 32 Texas, 231, Blackwell v Barnett, 52 Texas,
326. Subsequent decisions, it is true, may have modified this
doctrine, but only to the extent of holding that, although an
action for the debt may be barred by limitation, a court of
juity, the debt being unpaid, will not enjoin a trustee from
executing a power of sale given in the deed securing the debt,
Goldfrank, Frank & Co. v Young, 64 Texas, 432, and that
a sale by the trustee, under such a power, after the debt is
barred by limitation, will pass a good title free from the lien
of a subsequent purchaser who has notice of the incumbrance.
Fievd v Zuber, 67 Texas, 275, 278. In our judgment, the
parties intended to give the holder of the notes an option after
default in the payment of interest, not only to declare the
principal due, but to foreclose the deed of trust, in advance of
the dates of maturity named in the notes and deed. That
option not having been exercised when or after the several
defaults occurred, limitation began to run onthe several notes
only from their respective dates of maturity, as specified in
them, namely, the first days of November, 1885, 1886 and
1887.
It results that plaintiff was entitled to judgment as claimed
in his original petition. In view of this conclusion, it is unnecessary to consider whether the defendants made any acknowledgment or promise which, under the statute of Texas, as
construed by the- Supreme Court of that State, (Gathrg t'v

WILLCOX. & GIBBS CO. v. EWING.
Statement of the Case.

WVheat, 70 Texas, 40, Krueger v. -rueger, 76 Texas, 178,)
would remove the bar of limitation, if we should assume that
limitation began to run from default in paying interest, or
upon the expiration of ninety days after such default.
The judgment is reversed, and the cause remanded with direetzons to grant a new trial,andforfurtherproceedingsconsutent with this op-nionn.
MR.JusTICE BREWER concurs in thQ judgment.
MR.JusTiCE GRAY did not take part in the decision of the
case.

WILLCOX & GIBBS SEWING MACHINE COMPANY
v. EWING.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 64. Argued October 29, 1891.-De,:ided November 16, 1891.

A contract of agency, which leaves the agent free to terminate his relations
with the principal upon reasonable notice, must be construed to confer
the same right upon the principal, unless provisions to the contrary are
stipulated.
A provision -in a contract, otherwise terminable upon reasonable notice, that
a violation of the spirit of the agreement shall be a sufficient cause for
its abrogation, does not imply that it can bo abrogated only for sufficient
cause.
The plaintiff in error by contract appointed the defendant in error ,,its
exclusive vendor" for its machines in a defined territory; agreed to sell
the machines to him at a large discount from its retail New York prices;
and not to "knowingly supply its goods at a discount to go within that
territory." The defendant in error accepted the appointment; agreed' to
pay for'he machines at the discount rate; not to sell them below the said
retail rate; and not to solicit orders within the territory of other agents.
Held, that the agreement constituted him agent within the defined terrtory.

THE court stated the case as follows
This writ of error brings up for review a judgnent based
upon a verdict for $15,000.as the damages which a jury found

