McLISH v. ROFF.
Syllabus.

maintenance of the action. The facts upon which a title te
the premises in controversy rests, or by which such title can
be defeated, can be readily shown in an action at law No
-discovery is necessary for the intervention of any equitable
jurisdiction, nor would there be any avoiding of a multiplicity
of suits by maintaining this proceeding in a court of equity
In a single action at law all the facts can be established and
all the questions necessary to determine the right to the
'property can be considered and disposed of. The allegation
of fraudulent proceedings respecting the acquisition of the
title does not convert an action at law into a. suit in equity
The title stated is merely legal, and as was said in the case of
-Hi"p v Bab?.n, 19 How 271, 2-77, where an ejectment suit in
equity was sought to be sustained. "The evidence to support
it appears from documents accessible to either party, and no
particular.circumstances are stated, showing the necessity of
the courts interfering, either for preventing suits or other
vexation, or for preventing an injustice, irremediable at law"
See also &cott v .Neely, 140 U. S. 106, 110.
The demurrer to. the bill was, therefore,, properly sustained
and the suit dismissed on the ground that the complainant
had an adequate remedy at law, such dismissal being without
prejudice to any subsequent action at law which the. complainant might be advised to bring.
Decee affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICe

BLATC FOFRD

took no part 'm the deoision of this

ease.

TfcLISH v. ROFF
ERROR TO THE UNITED STATES COURT FOR THE INDIAN TERIORY.
NQ. 1158. Submitted October13, IS91.-Delded December 7, A91.

Under section 5 of the Act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat,_826,, to establish Circuit Courts of Appeal," etc., the appeal or writ of eior witch may
be taken" from the existing Circuit Courts direct to the Supreme Court,"

" in any case in which the jurisdiction of the court is in issue,' can be

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.
taken only afterfinal judgment; when the party against whom .itis rendered must elect whether he will take his writ-of error or appeal to this
court upon the question of jurisdiction alone, or to the Circuit Court of
Appeals upon the whole case.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

-Ur W 0 Davw and Xr.Mj
in error.

.allett P

liepa for plaintiff

-Mr W 0. Ledbeter for defendants in error.
MR. JUsTicE L.AwrA

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a suit brought in the United States Court for the
Indian Territory, Third Judicial Division, by A. B. "Roff and
W R. Watkins against Richard McLish, for the recovery of
about 640 acres of laud situated in the Ohickasaw Nation, and
belonging to said tribe. In their amended complaint, they
alleged that the defendant, Richard McLish, is a member of
the tribe of Chickasaw Indians by blood, that both plaintiffs,
Roff and Watkins, were born in the United States, and are
now, and always have been, citizens of the United States,
neither of them ever having renounced their allegiance to the
government of the United States, nor taken the oath of allegiance to the government known as the Chickasaw government. The complaint further alleged that both plaintiffs,
Roff and Watkins, are members and citizens of the Chickasaw
tribe of Indians by intermarriage, and not by mativity or
adoption, that, on the 15th day of November, 1865, the plaintiff Watkins, by intermarriage with Elizabeth Tyson, a member
of said tribe by blood, became himself a member of said tribe,
and .that the plaintiff Roff also became a member of the same
tribe, by intermarriage with Matilda Bourland, the daughter
of an adopted member of the tribe, during the year 1867,
that, as such citizens of the Chickasaw nation, the plaintiffs.
had the right to own and did own, on or about the 1st of September, 1888, as tenants in common, the tract of land described
ii the complaint, and were in the actual possession thereof,
but that on that day the defendant McLish entered upon the

McLISH v. IOF F.
Opinion of the Court.

said premises and unlawfully ousted the plaintiffs therefrom,
and that he unlawfully withholds the same, and has continuously done so up to the time of bringing this suit, to the damage of the plaintiffs, $10,000. They pray for the recovery
of the said premises, with the rents, damages and costs; or, if
the court holds that they are not entitled to the recovery of
the land, that they recover the value of the improvements
put thereon, which improvements are set forth in some detail
in the complaint, amounting in value, in the aggregate, to
82875.00 by Roff, and to $2200.00 by Watkins.
At October term, 1890, the defendant filed his demurrer to
the jurisdiction of the court on these grounds
(1) It appears from plaintiffs' amended complaint that the
parties plaintiff and defendant are citizens of the Chickasaw
nation or tribe of Indians, and that the court is without jurisdiction over the parties to this suit, and of -this the defendant
prays the judgment of the court whether he ought to answer
said complaint.
(2) It appears from the amended complaint that plaintiffs
acquired their pretended rights as citizens of the Chickasaw
nation, and that they claim such rights, because of their said
citizenship, and that this is a controversy between citizens of
the Chickasaw tribe of Indians, of which the courts of said
tribe have exclusive jurisdiction, and of this the defendant
prays a judgment of the court that this suit be dismissed.
The demurrer was overruled by the court upon the ground
that it had jurisdiction to hear and determine the cause, to
which the defendant excepted. The defendant thereupon insisted that the jurisdiction of the court over the suit was at
issue, and desiring to remove the cause by writ of error to the
Supreme Court of the United States for its decision upon the
question of jurisdiction involved, requested the court below to
certify the question of jurisdiction involved to that court for
review, offering to file a petition for a writ of error, with good
and approved security, and asked that the court proceed no
further with the cause until the jurisdiction should be decided
by the Supreme Court of the United States. The court denied
said request and held that it was its duty to proceed with. the

1664-

OCTOBER TERI, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

trial of the case, notwithstanding the question of jurisdiction,
and that the defendant could only appeal upon that question
(of jurisdiction) to the Supreme Court of the United States
from the final judgment of the court below, and required the
-defendant to proceed with the trial of the cause upon the merits to all of which the defendant excepted, tendering his bill
-of exceptions, and asking that the same be allowed and certified, which was done by the judge of said court. He then
sued out a writ of error from this court.
The writ of error is taken under the act of March 3, 1891,
26 Stat. 826, c. 517, wnich, as we have decided in In re
ajaasen, 140 U. S. 200, went immediately into effect on its
-enactment. The 13th section of that act placed the United
States court in the Indian Territory on the same footing with
regard to writs of error and appeals to this court as that occupied by the Cilcuit and District Courts of the United States.
Sec. 5 of the same act provides
"That appeals or writs of error may be taken from the district courts or from the existing circuit courts direct to the
Supreme Court in the following cases In any case in which
the jurisdiction of the court ts tn .ssue, n suck cases the quesiion of jurtsdihono alone shall' be certified -to the Supreme
4ourt from the court below for decision."
Does this provision authorize an appeal or writ of error to
be taken to this court for review of a question involving the
jurisdiction of the court below, whenever it arises in the progress of a case pending therein, and does the taking of such
appeal or writ of error operate to stay the further proceedings
in the cause until the determination by this court of the jurisdictional question 2 Or, in other words, hal this court jurisdiction to review the question before any final judgment in
the cause 2
The plaintiff in error contends that we have the jurisdiction
to review such question, because (1) there is in the section
above quoted no express requirement of finality of judgment,
and (2) because there is a positive requirement that the question of jurisdiction shall alone be certified to the Supreme

Court from the court below for decision.

McLISH v. ROFF.
Opinon of the Court.

It is further argued that the omission of the word f§naZ in
this particular provision, and the repeated use of that word in
other sections of tbe act, in reference to a different class of
cases, show the intent of the act to be that the review of the
question of jurisdiction should not await the final determination of the case in the court below
We think that upon sound principles of construction such is
not the meaning of the act of Congress under considergtion.
It is manifest that the words in sec. 5, "appeals or writs of
error," must be understood within the meaning of those terms
as used in all prior acts of Congress relating to the appellate
powers of this court, and in the long standing rules of practice
and procedure in the Federal courts. Taken in that sense,
those terms mean the proceedings by which a cause, in which
there has been a final judgment, is removed from a court below
to an appellate court for review, reversal or affirmance. It is
true that the Judiciary Act of 1789 limited the appellate jurisdiction of this court to final judgments and decrees, in the
cases specified. This, however, in respect to writs of error
was only declaratory of a well settled and ancient rule of
English practice. At common law no writ of error could be
brought except on a final judgment. Bac. Ab. Error, A. 2.
"If the writ of error be returnable before judgment is given,
it may be quashed on motion." 2 Tidd's Practice, 1162. In
respect to appeals there.is a difference in the practice of the
English chancery courts, in which appeals may be taken from
an interlocutory order of the Chancellor to the House of
Lords, "'id the practice of the United States chancery courts,
where the right of appeal is by statute restricted to 'final
decrees, so that a case cannot be brought to this'court in
fragments.
From the very foundation .of our judicial system the object
and policy of the acts of Congress in relation to appeals and
writs of error, (with the single exception of a provision in the
act of 1875 in relation to cases of removal, which was repealed
by the act of 1887,) have been to save the expense and delays
of repeated appeals in the ;ame suit, and to have the whole
case and every matter in controversy in it decided in a single

OCTOBER TERM, 1391.
Opinion of the Court.

appeal. Forgay v. Conrad,6 How 201, 204. The construction contended for would render the act under consideration
inconsistent with this long established object and policy
More than this, it would defeat the very object for which that
act was passed.
It is a matter of public history, and is manifest on the face
of that act, that its primary object was to facilitate the prompt
disposition of cases in the Supreme Court, and to relieve it of
the enormous overburden of suits and cases resulting from the
rapid growth of the country and the steady increase of its
litigations. That act, in substance, creates a new and distinct
Circuit Court of Appeals, in each circuit, to be composed of
three judges, namely, the circuit justice when present, and two
circuit judges, and also, in the absence of any one of those
three, a district judge selected by assignment for the purpose
of completing the court.
It then provides for the distribution of the entire appellate
jurisdiction of our national- judicial system, between the
Supreme Court of the United States and the Circuit Court of
Appeals, therein established, by designating the classes of
cases in respect of which each of those two courts shall
respectively have final jurisdiction, But as to the mode and
manner in which these revisory powers may be invoked, there
IS,we think, no provision in the act which can be construed
into so radical a change in all the existing statutes and settled
rules of practice and procedure of Federal courts as to extend
the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court to the review of jurisdictional cases in advance of the final judgments upon them.
But there is an additional reason why the omission of the
word fnal, in the 5th section of the act should not be held to
imply that the purpose of the act is to extend the right of
appeal to any question of jurisdiction, in advance of the final
judgment, at any time it may arise in the progress of the
cause in the court below Such implication, if tenable, cannot
be restricted to questions of jurisdiction alone. It applies
equally to cases that involve the construction or application of
the Constitution of the United States, and to cases in which
the constitutionality of any law of the United States, or the

McLISH v. ROFF.
Opinion of the Court.

validity or construction of any treaty made under its authority,
is drawn m question, and to those in which the constitution or
law of a State is claimed to oe in contravention of the Constitution of the United States. Under such a.construction all
these most important classes of cases could be directly taken
by writ of error or appeal, as the case may be, to this court,
independently of -any final judgment upon them. The effect
of such a construction, if sanctioned, would subject this court
to the needless delays and labor of several successive appeals
in the same case, which, with all thematters in controversy in
it, by awaiting the final judgment, could be promptly decided
m one appeal.
It is also insisted that sec. 14 of the act in question, repealing sec. 691 of the Revised Statutes and sec. 3 of the act of
February 16, 1815, gives a wider scope to the revisory powers
of this court, and makes a final judgment unnecessary to the
exercise of these powers in the cases specified in said fifth
section. We think that that repeal applies, in both sections
mentioned, only to the provisions which limit the appellate
power of the Supreme Court to cases involving the amounts
there respectively specified, namely, $2000 in one and $5000
in the other. If it was the purpose of the act to repeal that
part of those sections which refers to final judgments, such
intention would have been indicated in express and explicit
terms, inasmuch as there were, when the act was passed, other
sections and other statutes containing the same limitation of
appeals to final judgments.
It is further argued, in support of the contention of the
plaintiff in error, that if it should be held that a writ of error
would not lie upon a question of jurisdiction until after final
judgment, such ruling would lead to confusion and absurd
consequences, that the question of jurisdiction would be certified to this court, while the case on its merits would be certified
to the Circuit Court .of Appeals, that the case would be before
two separate appellate courts at one and the same time, and
that the Supreme Court might dismiss the suit upon the question of jurisdiction while the Circuit Court of Appeals might
properly affirm the judgment of the lower court upon the

OCTOBER TERAI, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

merits. The fallacy which underlies this argument is the
assumption that the act of 1891 contemplates several separate
appeals in the same case and at the same time to two appellate
courts. No such provision can be found in the act, either m
express terms or by implication. The true purpose of the
act, as gathered from its context, is that the writ of error, or
the appeal, may be taken only after final judgment, except in
the cases specified in section 7 of the act. When that judgment is rendered, the party against whom it is rendered must
elect whether he will take his writ of error or appeal to the
Supreme Court upon the question of jurisdiction alone, or to
the Circuit Court of Appeals upon the whole case, if the
latter, then the Circuit Court of Appeals may, if it deem
proper, certify the question of jurisdiction to this court.
The writ of error is
Dismss8ed.

FERRY v. KIMG COUNTY
XRROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON.
INIo.
1377. Submitted November 23,189f. -Decided December 7, 1891.
In an action against the county treasurer of a county in the State of Washington and the sureties on his officiat bond to recover moneys received by
him -officially rulings of the state court that his settlements with the
county commissioners were not conclusive, that that body acted ministerially in settling with him and could not absolve him from the duty to
account and pay over, and that the denial by the trial court of 'an order
to furnish a bill of particulars would not be disturbed in the absence of
anything indicating that the defendants had been prejudiced thereby, do
not deny the validity of the territorial code enacted under the authority
of Congress, and confer no jurisdiction in error upon this court.
The validity of a statute is not drawn in quesTion every time that rights
clauned under it are controverted, nor is the validity of an authority
every time an act done by such authority is disputed.

THE case was stated by the court as follows

This was an action brought by the county f King in the
District Court of the Third Judicial District of the Territory

