OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

by a third person, defendant could claim that the device described in such patent was open to it. In such case it might
perhaps be held that the plaintiff was entitled to stand upon
the przma facme validity of the earlier patent, and that presumptively the defendant would be bound to pay a royalty to
the patentee, and, having elected to make use of the plaintiff's
invention, would be bound to pay a like royalty to him. This
question, however, is not presented in the case under consideration.
The decree of the court below must be
A4ffirmed.
MR. JuSTcE BRADLEY and MR. JUSTIcE GRAY were not present at the argument, and took no part in the decision of this
case.

A.MERIOA_

ICN
ET AND TWINE COMPAINY v.
WORTHINGTON.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR. THE
DISTRICT OF MTASSAOHUSETTS.
No. 55. Argued October 2T,1891. -Decided

November 9,1891.

In fixing the classification of goods for the payment of duties, the name or
designation of the goods is to be understood in its known commercial
sense; and their denomination in the market will control their classification without regard to their scientific designation, the material of which
they may be made or the use to which they may be applied.
Giling twine, when imported as gilling, for the manufacture of gill nets, is
liable only to the duty of 25 per cent under the act of March 3, 1883,
22 Stat. 488.
Statements made in Congress by the promoters of a customs-act are madmissibl6 as bearing upon its construction; but the proceedings therein
may be referred to to inform the court of the reasons for fixing upon a
specific rate of duty.
Where a customs-act imposes a duty upon an article by a specific name,
general terms in the act, though sufficiently broad to cover it, are not
applicable to it.
In cases of doubt in the construction of a customs-act, the courts resolve
the d-ubt in favor of the importer.

AMERICAN NET & TWINE CO. v. WORTHINGTON.

469

Statement of the Case.

THis was an action against the collector of the port of Bos.
ton to recover back certain duties upon gilling twine, paid
under protest. By written stipulation of the parties the case
was heard by the court without a piury, and the following facts
were found
"The plaintiff corporation, whose business is the manufacture of fishing nets and seines, in the months of February,
March, April and May, 1885, made seven different importations
of gilling into the port of Boston from Liverpool- in all, fortyfive cases. The merchandise was invoiced and entered at the
custom-house as gilling twine. Upon the appraisement by the
custom-house officials here, the merchandise was classified as
linen thread, and the collector assessed upon it a duty of 40
per cent ad valorem. The plaintiff in each instance paid the
assessed duty under protest, claiming that the article was
dutiable at twenty-five per cent ad valorem as gilling twine.
Upon appeals to the Secretary of the Treasury, the decisions of
the collector were affirmed, and the plaintiff then brought this
suit to recover back the alleged excess, which amounted on all
the importations to $1685.85. All the proceedings m respect
to the plaintiff's protests and appeals were regular and taken
in due season, and this suit was commenced within the time
limited by law for bringing such suits. The merchandise after
its importation was used by the plaintiff in the manufacture
of gill nets, and was imported expressly for that purpose.
"The article in question is No. 35 three-cord unbleached
linen thread of superior quality, put up in half-pound balls, and
was manufactured by the Scotch firm of W & J Knox at their
works in Kilbirme, Scotland. For more than twenty years
thread of this description has been used by the plaintiff and
other net-makers in this country for the manufacture of gill
nets, principally for the fisheries on the great Western lakes,
the numbers of the thread used for this purpose ranging from
10 to 60. For many years before the tariff act of 1883, this
kind of thread, of the manufacture of W & J Knox and other
foreign makers, was imported under the name of gilling twine
to be used in making gill nets, and was invoiced and entered
at the custom-hbuse under that name, and was so desikilated"

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

on price-lists and trade circulars of the foreign makers. For
many years before the act no other imported article was known
by the special name of gilling twine. One of the custom-house
officers testified that he never heard or knew of any other
imported article that was called gilling twine.
"On the other hand, the article is clearly not twine. It is
not suitable for the uses which twine is commonly put to. It
is made of'flax from which the gum has been removed by boiling. It is flexible, without the stiffness of twine, highly finished, capable of being used for sewing, and is largely used for
machine sewing in many trades. It is not claimed by the
plaintiff in this suit that in a general sense, it is anything else
than linen thread, or that it differs in material or quality or
mode of manufacture from other similar threads. For many
years linen thread of the same kind and quality has-been both
imported from abroad and made here in large quantities for
many other purposes than for gilling. It is used by boot and
shoe makers, upholsterers, bookbinders, saddlers and in many
other trades as sewing thread. When imported for this purpose it is invoiced and entered as linen thread, and is so known
in commerce and designated on price-lists and trade circulars.
That which is made here for these uses is known only as linen
thread. It is also made here for gilling purposes, and in such
cases is invariably called gilling thread, never gilling twine.
Of all that is made here or imported, at least nine-tenths, and
probably nineteen-twentieths; is used for other purposes than
as gilling. It also appears that there is a large, coarse twine
made of hemp, which is imported under the name of salmon
twine, and is made into nets for gilling salmon. This article
seems never to have acquired the-name of gilling twine in the
trade. There is also a cotton gilling twine which is made in
this country, but never imported."
Upon the foregoing facts the court decided that the plaintiff could not maintain the action, and ordered judgment for
the defendant with costs.
The plaintiff thereupon sued out a writ of error from this
court. The opinion of the court below is reported in 33 Fed.
Rep. 826.

AMERICAN. NET & TWINE CO. v. WORTHINGTON.

471

Opinion of the Court.

.Mr Edward Hartley for plaintiff in error. MAr Walter H
Coleman and XMr Oharles P Searle were -with him -on the
brief.
XM" Aswtant Attorney General Parker fer defendant m
error.
M . JusTICE BROWN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The decision'of this case depends upon the construction of
the tariff act of March 3, 1883, 22 Stat. 488, c. 121. Schedile
J of this act, page 507, provides for a duty of 40.per cent ad
valorem upon "flax or linen thread, twine and pack thread,.
and all manufactures of flax, or of which flax shall be the
component material of chief value,.not specially enumerated
or provided for in this act," while a subsequent paragraph of
the same schedule imposes a duty of 25 per cent ad valorem
upon "se in es and seine and gilling twine." The question is,
to which category, under the finding of facts, these goods are
to be assigned. We-think the following extract from the finding is .decisive in favor of the position taken by the plaintiff
in error - "For many years before the tariff act of 1883, this
kind of thread, of the manufacture of W & 3. Knox and
other foreign makers, was imported under the name of gilling
twine, to be used in making gill nets, and was invoiced and
entered at the -custom-house under that name, and was- so
designated on price-lists and trade, circulars of the foreign
makers. For many years before the act no other imported
article was known by the special name of gilling twine"'
It is a cardinal rule of this court that, in fixing the classification of goods for the payment of duties, the name or designation of the goods is to be understood in its known commercial sense, and that their denomination in the market when
the law was passed will control their classification without
regard to their scientific designation, the material of which
they may be made or the use to which they may be applied..
Two Hundred Civets of Tea, 9 Wheat. 430,438, United State.
v. One Hundred and Twvelve Casks of Sugar, 8 Pet. 277

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

Elliott v Swartwout, 10 Pet. 137, Curtis v Martin, 3 How
106, Arthur v Morrison, 96 U. S. 108, Swan v. Arthur, 103
U. S. 597, Schmieder v Barney, 113 U. S. 645, Arthur v.
Butte,:ftld, 125 U. S. 70, Robertson v. Salomon, 130 U. S.
412.
It must be assumed that Congress in imposing a duty upon
"gilling twine" ec nonine, intended that some article used for
the purpose of manufacturing gill nets should pay duty as
such, and as the article in question is and was, for many years
before the act was passed, imported, invoiced and entered at
the custom-house under that name, and was so designated in
price-lists and trade circulars, and was actually intended for
use in the manufacture of gill nets, and no other article was
imported under that name, it follows that it should be classified as such, notwithstanding it is in fact linen thread, and
when intended for sewing purposes is invoiced and entered as
linen thread.
The argument for the higher duty is based upon the finding
that the article is not twine, is not suitable for the purposes to
which twine is commonly put, because made of -flax from
which the gum has been removed by boiling, and is flexible,
without the stiffness of twine, highly finished, capable of
being used for sewing and largely used for machine sewing in
many trades. It would seem to follow from this that, in the
opinion of the court below, twine must be stiff and contain a
certain q.uantity of gum, as the most ordinary form of twine
for wrapping parcels undoubtedly does. But these qualities
,are not essential to twine, which is defined by Webster as,
"A-strong thread composed or two or three smaller threads
or strands twisted together, and used for various purposes, as
for binding small parcels, making nets and the like, a small
cord or string." If in fact twine were necessarily stiff and
contained an infusion of gum, there could be no such thing as
"gilling twine," since for the purpose of gill nets, linen thread
must combine the utmost possibleflexibility of movement with
lightness of texture, strength and invisibility It is stated in
the opinion of the general appraisers at New York of December
4, 1890, referred to in the brief of counsel, that "the action of

AMERICAN NET & TWINE CO. v. WORTHINGTON.

473

Opinion of the Court.

the water would kink the hard twisted thread and dissolve the
gum or sizing, thus rendering the nets made therefrom comparatively worthless." It should be so light as to float in the
current, so fine and so near the color of the water as to be
invisible, and so strong that when the fish are caught by the
gills they are held by the tenacity of the thread. It is undoubtedly thread, and the finding is that home-made linen
thread used for gilling purposes is invariably (and more properly) called gilling thread, never gilling twine. We are
bound, however, to give some effect to the words "gilling
twine," and if there be no other imported article of that name,
it follows conclusively that this must have been the article
intended. Nor is this inference greatly weakened by the fact
that the article is nothing less than linen thread, differing not
in material quality or mode of manufacture from other similar
thread, that nine-tenths of the thread so imported is used for
-other purposes than gilling, and that when so imported, it is
invoiced and entered as linen thread, and is so known in commerce, and designated on price-lists and trade circulars.
It would appear from the Treasury reports and circulars to
admit of some doubt whether there is an absolute identity between the thread used for gilling and that used for sewing;
but it is not necessary for us to determine whether the same
duty should be imposed if the same article be imported for
different purposes. Of course this would follow only in case
the two articles were absolutely identical, and if, as found by
the board of general appraisers of New York, to which reference has already been made, the difference between the two is
so marked as to render them easily separable, the question of
identity would not arise. It was found by them that the
machine thread is a harder twist and contains more sizing
than the gilling, and that the former could not be satisfactorily used for the manufacture of gill nets.
It is sufficient for the purposes of this case to hold that,
when imported as gilling, for the manufacture of gill nets, it
is liable only to the duty of 25 per cent.
While the statements made and the opinions advanced by
the promoters of the act m the legislative body are inadmis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

sible as bearing upon its construction, yet reference to the proceedings of such body may properly be made to inform the
court, of the exigencies of the fishing interests and the reasons
for fixing the duty at this amount. Jennzson v Mirk, 98
U. S. 453, 459, Blake v National Banks, 23 Wall. 307, 317
[the Collector v 2zchards, 23 Wall. 246, 25-8, Gilmer v Stone,
120 U. S. 586, 590, Unsted States v. Unson Paific Railroad,
91 U. S. 72, 79. It seems that the duty upon seines wasoriginally fixed at six and one-half cents per pound, when,
upon representations of the fishermen upon the Lakes, who use
seines and gill nets which are only made of Scotch and Irish
flax, and always from imported twine, that they were suffering from the competition of Canadian fishermen, who imported
their twine free of duty and found a ready sale for their fish
in American ports, also free of duty, an effort was made to put
seines and seine and gilling twine on the free list, but the matter was finally compromised by fixing the duty at 25 per cent
ad valorem. Unless this be held to include the thread of
which these gill nets are actually made, the intention of Congress will evidently be defeated.
While in the absence of -a more specific designation this.
article might properly be classed as -linen thread, it is a familiar
rule in revenue cases that, where Congress has designated an
article by a specific name and imposed a duty upon it, general
terms in the same act, though sufficiently broad to comprehend such article, are not applicable to it, in other words, the
article will be classified by its specific designation, rather than
under a general description. iomer v. The Collector, 1 Wall.
486, Arthur v Lakey, 96 U. S. 112, Arthur v Stephas, 96.
U. S. 125,
fovzus v. Arthur, 95 U. S.144.
We think the intention of Congress that these goods should
be classified as "gilling twine" is plain, but were the question
one of doubt, we should still feel obliged to resolve that doubt
in favor of the importer, since the intention of Congress to
impose a higher duty should be expressed in clear and unambiguous language. United States v ksham, 17 Wall. 496,
lartranft v Wiegmann, 121 U. S. 609; Gurr v. Soudds, 11
Exch. 190.

L ADVILLE COAL CO. v. McCREERY.
Opinion of the Court.

The judgment of the court below will, therefore, be
Reversed, and the case remanded for furtherproceedingssr
conformity with ths optnwm.
M
M. JUSTICE BRADLEY and MR. JusTICE Gi.&Y were not
present at the argument, and took no part in the decision ofthis case.

LEADVILLE COAL COMPANY v. MoCREERY.
&PPEAL FROM THE

1RCourr COURT OF THE UWTD STATES FOR THU
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 969. Argued and submitted October 29, 1891. -Decded

November 9,1891.

When, in pursuance of the jurisdiction conferred by the laws of the United
States, a Circuit Court of the United States takes possession of the property of a defendant, situated within a State, and proceeds to final decree,
determining the rights of all parties to that property, its decree is not
superseded and its jurisdiction ended by reason of subsequent proceedings in the courts of the State looking to the administration of that property in accordance with the laws of the State.
A decree in such case, determining the claims of all creditors and their right
to share in the distribution of the property, is final as to all who had
notice and knowledge of the proceedings.
In this case there were no Irregularities in the proceedings which can be
challenged here.

IN EQUITY.
Mfr

The case is stated in the opinion.

enry Crawford, for appellants, submitted on his brif.

Mr Charles C. Baldwin, with whom was Mr Cecil D. Hin
on the brief, for appellees.

1MR.

JuSTICE BREWER

delivered the opilion of the court.

The facts in this case are these On February 21, 1883, a
suit was commenced in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Northern District of Ohio, by the Lake Superior Iron

