OCTOBER TERAI, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

Judicial Court of Massachusetts, which we have just reversed.
It is apparent from an inspection of the record that the whole
loundation of that part of the judgment which is in favor of
the defendant is, to our judicial knowledge, without any
validity, force or effect, and ought never to have existed.
Why, then, should not we reverse the judgment which we
know of record* has become erroneous, and save the parties
the delay and expense of taking ulterior proceedings in the
court below to effect the same object?
Upon full consideration of the matter we have come to the
conclusion that we may dispose of the case here.
We,therefore, reverse the yudgment of the Circuit Court, and
order that the cause be remanded with directions to enter
yudgrment for the latnti n error against the defendant
in error for the whole amount sued for -n the action,
namely, ezght thousand dollars,with znterest and costs, and
take suck further proceedings as may be proper sn conformity with ths opmnion.

TUSIKAIOOSA NORTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v.
GUDE.
•FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE SOUTHERN
DIVISION OF THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ALARAMA.
No. 1606. Submitted January 15, 1891. -Decided February 2,1891.

In an action at law in a Circuit Court, judgment bemg rendered for the
plaintiff, there was no bill of exception, no writ of error nor an allowance
of appeal, but the defendant fied a supersedeas bond in wnch it was
alleged that the defendant had "prosecuted an appeal or writ of error to
the Supreme Court of the United. States, to reverse the judgment." The
plaintiff moved for the revocation of the supersedeas created by the
bond, which motion was denied. The motion in tis court for leave to
docket and dismiss the case was granted.

THIS was a motion for leave to docket and dismiss a cause.
The motion was as follows

TUSKAL00SA RAILWAY C0. v. GUDE.
Statement of the Case.

"Notion is made in this cause, upon the record of the proceedings of the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern Division of the Northern District of Alabama, a
duly certified transcript whereof is now submitted to this
Honorable Court, on the following prayers for relief in behalf
of the plaintiff in said cause.
"First. That the plaintiff in said cause, as the defendant
in error in this court, have leave to docket said cause and
dismiss the same, under section 1 of Rule 9, of the Rules of
practice in the Supreme Court, or" Second. That the plaintiff in said cause have leave to
docket the same and file a copy of the record in said case with
the Clerk of the Supreme Court and that his counsel have
leave to enter his appearance therein, and that the cause shall
stand for argument at the present term of the court, under
sections 2 and 3 of said Rules of practice or for motion to
dismiss the same under Rule 6 and
"TiTid. That the court will, if said cause is dismissed
under Rule 9, or under any other Rule, adjudge damages to
the said Albert V Gude the plaintiff in said judgment, for
delay under section 2 of Rule 23, and also a mandate, or other
process in the nature of a procedendo, to the court below,
under Rule 24.
" Fourth. That .the court will grant to the plaintiff in said
judgment any other relief in the premises to secure justice to
him, that may be consistent with the law and the practice in
the Honorable Court.
"JOHN T. MORGAN,
"Attorney for Albert 7 Gude.
"STATEMENT

OF FACTS SHOWN BY THE DULY CERTIFIED RECORD
HEREWITH SUBMITTED.

"On the 24th March, 1890, judgment was rendered on the
verdict of a jury, in the said Circuit Court of the United
States, in favor of Albert V Gude, against the Tuskaloosa
Northern Railway Company, for the sum of ten thousand
dolL i and costs, for which execution was ordered to issue.
"On the 25th March, 1890, the attorneys of the parties

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

entered into the following stipulation 'In the above cause it
is hereby agreed .that the time for signing the bill of exceptions in this cause and taking appeal or prosecuting writ of
error therein be and the same is hereby extended until the 1st
day of June, 1890, and that the said bill of exceptions shall be
considet A as if filed on the last day of the term of said court
now pending.'
"On the filing of this agreement the court ordered 'that
no execution issue in this cause until said 1st day of June,
.1890, and then that the same should not issue if the defendants
have taken said appeal, or prosecuted their writ of error, upon
supersedeas bond, and that the said bill of exceptions be,_
when signed, considered as if filed on the last day of the
present term of the court.'
"The certificate of the Clerk of the court shows the transcript now submitted to the court 'to be a true, perfect and
complete transcript and copy of the record and proceedings
heretofore had and entered of record' in said cause. No bill
of exceptions is in the record and none has been signed or
filed.
"On the 31st' of May, 1890, a bond was jfled sn the clerk's
ofice, which had been ftaken and approved thts 24th day of
.May,180," by 'John Bruce, Judge of the U S. Court, Southern
Division 2 orthqrn, Disfriot of Alabama.'"
The following is a copy of that bond, as the same is set out
and certified .i the transcript of the record now, here, submitted to the court.
"The Tuskaloosa Northern Railway
Company, a body Corporate under the
laws of Alabama.
Apellant.
v.
J. C. Reiley and A. V Gude, constituting the firm of Reiley & Gude.
Appellees."

Cireuit Court of the
United States of America.
For the Southern
Division of the Norther District of Alabama.

"Know all men by these presents that we The Tuskaloosa

TUSKALOSA RAILWAY CO. v. GUDE.
Statement of the Case.

Northern Railway Company, a body corporate under the lawS
of Alabama, The Tuskaloosa Coal Iron and Land Co., a body
corporate under the laws of Alabama, and the Tuskaloosa
Belt Railway Co., a body corporate under the laws of Alabama, all of the county of Tuskaloosa in the State of Alabama
are held and firmly bound unto the above 'named Reiley &
Gude in the sum of Fifteen Thousand (15,000) Dollars to be
paid the said Reiley & Gude.
"For the faithful payment of which sum well and truly to
be made we bind ourselves and each of.us, our and each of our
heirs, executors and administrators jointly and severally and
firmly by these presents.
"Sealed with our seals and dated at Tuskaloosa, Alabama,
the 23d day -of May, A.D., 1890.
"Whereas the above bounden Tuskaloosa Northern Railway Co., has prosecuted an appeal or writ of error to the
Supreme Court of the United States to reverse the judgment
rendered in the above entitled, cause at the spring term 1890,
of the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
Division of the Northern District of Alabama, holden at Birmingham, Alabama, by the Hon. John Bruce, judge of the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern Division
of the Northern District of Alabama. Now therefore, the
condition of the above obligation 'is such, that if the abov&
named Tuskaloosa Northern Railway Co. shall prosecute said
appeal to effect and answer all damages and costs, if it fail to.
make said appeal good, then this obligation shall be void,.
otherwise the same shall be and remain in full force and.
virtue.
"Tuskaloosa Northern
Railway Company
"By W C. Jemison, [SEAL.]

"-P'tesd't.
"Tuskaloosa Coal
Iron and Land Company
"By W C. Jemison, [sEriAJ.
"' P'esd't.

'OCTOBER TERI, 1890.
Order of the Court.

"Tuskaloosa Belt

Railway Company
"W 0. Jemison, [SEAL..]
"Presd't.
"Taken and approved this 24th day of May, 1890.
"JOHN BRUCE,
"Judge of the U. S. Court
Southern Division Northern District of Alabama.
"There is no other allowance of an appeal or writ of error
in the cause of record, except that disclosed in the bond for
supersedeas and the orders thereon, as above stated and no
formal writ of error appears in the record.
"The plaintiff in said judgment, who is shown by the record
-to be the surviving partner of the firm of Reiley & Gude, on
the 9th of July, 1890, presented his petition to Hon. John
Bruce, who took and approved said supersedeas bond, praying
that he would revoke the supersedeas created by said bond
because it was not valid in law to prevent the issue of execution on the judgment which was not accurately described in
the supersedeas bond.
"Judge Bruce denied the petition, and thus sustained the
validity of the bond, and treated the case as if it had been
removed into the Supreme Court of the United States.
"The petition and the papers relating thereto were filed in
said Circuit Court and a certified transcript of the same is submitted with this motion to this Honorable Court.
"These papers, thus certified, are dehors the record in the
case adjudged by the court, but they are here presented to
show that the plaintiff, Gude, is withont remedy as to execution on his judgment until the Supreme Court has exercised
jurisdiction-in the main cause, or has declared that it has no
jurisdiction."
.Y" John T. _Yorgan for the motibn.
No one opposing.
The court ordered the case to be docketed and dismissed.

