CARPENTER v. STRAXGL
Syl'abus.

determining the question of jurisdiction, the appeal be dismissed upon the ground that appellants, by accepting the provisions of the statute of Nebraska in respect to a stay of the
sale, are'estopped to appeal from the decree rendered against
them. What would be the effect of that statute in its application to a case of which the Circuit Court of the United States,
sitting in Nebraska, could properly take cognizance, we need
not inquire.
The motion to'dismss the appeal ts dented, and the decree ig
reversed,with costg agatnstthe appellee, and remanded witA
-nstructzons to dismss the billfor want of umrsdictzon sn.the court below, unless the platntif, by leave of the court
below, and nthtn such time as it may prescribe, amends her
bill so as to present a case withAn its urasdietwn.

CARPENTER v. STRANGE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TENNESSEE.
No. 267. Argued March 26, 1891-

Decided May 25, 1891.

The objection that the record of proceedings in a court of record offered
in evidence should not be received in evidence, on the ground that the
transcript was incomplete, or was improperly authenticated, should be
raised in the court below;, and if not raised there cannot be taken here
for the first time.
In an action in the Supreme Court of New York (the court having jurisdiction of the parties) between two sisters, the defendant being sued in her
representative capacity as testatrix of her father's will, the matters in
controversy were: (1) whether the plaintiff had accented or rejected a
provision made for her by her father's will, (2) whether she was entitled
to xecover from her fqther's estate an amount claimed to be due on account of a fund which came to him as trustee for her, and-which be had
never accounted for; and (3) whether a certain conveyance of real estate
in Tennessee made by the father in his life-time to the defendant should
be adjudged to be fraudulent, and be vacated. That court, after hearing
the parties, adjudged (1) that the plaintiff had not acopted the provision
so made for her; (2) that the plaintiff was entitled to recover the M11
amount so claimed, and (3) that the deed was "absolutely null and void,
from the beginning," so far as it affected the testator's said indebted-

OCTOBER TERM-,

1890.

Statement of the Case.
ness. A litigation in equity then took place in Tennessee, in which the
plaintiff and defendant in New York were, respectively plaintiff and defendant. There were other parties, whose presence was not material to
the points here decided. This litigation resulted in the Supreme Court
of Tennessee deciding- (1) That the plaintiff had elected to take the
share so devised to her; (2) that having so elected she was not entitled
to recover on her claim, (3) that the Supreme Court of New York was
without power to adjudge the conveyance by the testator to the defendant of lands in Tennessee fraudulent and void, or to annul the same.
Held.
(1) That this decree did not give to the judgment of the Supreme
Court of the State of New York the full faith and credit to which
it was entitled under the Constitution as to the 1st and 2d points
so decided,
(2) That, as to the third point, the courts of New York had no power to
decree that a deed of ldi&
£ennessee was null and void.

Iw 1857, William Newton Murcer udnveyed certain lands in
Illinois to Ayres P Merrill, in trust for the latter's daughter,
Anna M., to the sole and separate use of -said Anna M., and
the heirs of her body, free from the control, debts, liabilities
or contracts of any husband she might have, with power in
the trustee to sell and dispose of the same, in whole or in part,
and reinvest the proceeds in either real or personal property,
to be held for the same uses and purposes and upon the same
trusts, and providing that in the event of the death of Anna
M., leaving no surviving issue, the property so conveyed in
trust or the proceeds thereof, should descend to her brother,
William Newton Mercer Merrill, and be held by the trustee or
his successor for the use and benefit of the said William upon
the same conditions and trusts, with power of appointment.
A. P Merrill sold and conveyed the lands described in the
deed in 1861 and 1864, for an aggregate of, $6200, but never
accounted to said Anna M., or any one for her, for the
amounts received and interest.
Anna M. subsequently intermarried with one Carpenter,
now deceased.
A. P Merrill had resided in Memphis, Tennessee, and subsequently became a citizen of the State of New York, where
he died in November, 1873, leaving there some personalty and
holding title at the time to a considerable amount of real

CARPENTER v. STRANGE.
Statement of the Case.

estate in Memphis. In December, 1867, Merrill executed a
deed to another daughter, Mrs. Strange, dated December 3,
and acknowledged December 27, of lot 59, Madison Street,
Memphis, without valuable consideration, and which was not
recorded until December 27, 1873, after Merrill's decease.
In 1871 Merrill made his last will and testament.
By the first item, he bequeathed to Mrs. Carpenter a life
estate in lot No. 98, Madison Street, Memphis "upon condition that she renounce all claim upon my estate for moneys
accruing from.the sale of a tract of land in Illinois conveyed
to me in trust for her benefit by Dr. W N. Mercer," and upon
her decease or declining the condition, it was provided that
the property be sold "for the benefit of the daughters then
surviving of my several daughters."
By the second item he devised to Mrs. Strange lot No. 59,
Madison Street, being the same lot described in the deed of
December, 1867, and also all his personal property.
By the third item he bequeathed to Mrs. Strange certain
moneys in trust for his grandchildren.
The fourth item was "1All other property may be sold for
the benefit of my own children, equally, who may survive
me."

By the fifth item he appointed :Mrs. Strange sole executrix,
without bond, and requested her to give to his son and three
grandchildren certain specified articles.
Mrs. Strange was a citizen of New York, and there proved
the will and qualified as executrix in February, 1874.
Shortly after the letters testamentary issued, Mrs. Carpenter, also a citizen of New York, brought suit in the Supreme
Court of that State against Mrs. Strange, as executrix, for the
recovery of the trust moneys.
The amended complaint alleged the decease of A. P Merrill
in December, 1873, testate, that Mrs. Strange was sole executrix, that the will was admitted to probate in February,
184, a copy being annexed, set up the trust created in 1857
by Mercer, the sale by Merrill of the lands and the receipt of
the money, charged that Merrill converted the money to his
own use, and that it became absorbed in his business and

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

materially enhanced the value of his estate, that he had rendered no account to her of the trust estate, and that he left.
real estate of large value in Memphis, and large sums of
money and personal property in New York.
She then set forth the clause of the will in relation to
No. 98 Madison Street, and stated "that she has not renounced
said claim, so as aforesaid required to do, nor has she refused
to renounce said claim, for the reason that plaintiff claims
that by virtue of the deed of trust it is impossible for plaintiff
-to release said trust funds, and for the further reason that such
a condition as aforesaid required is against conscience and
justice." She further alleged that Mrs. Strange was unfit for
the position of trustee, and that her interests were opposed to
plaintiff's interests, that at the time of Merrill's death plaintiff was informed and believed he was free from debt, except
plaintiff's claim for the trust moneys and other money she
had put into his hands in trust, and a balance due her brother
William for money held upon a similar trust created by Mercer simultaneously with that in plaintiff's favor, and that if
any debts had existed they had been paid except, as aforesaid.
She charged that the executrix refused to account for these
sums of money, and denied the liability of the estate for
the same, and in proving the will claimed and declared that
she owned as devisee the real estate specifically devised to
her, but suppressed mention of the fact that a deed of the
same property had been made to her. Complainant further
alleged that if the deed of December, 1867, was obtained at,
all from the testator, it was so obtained by collusion with him
and for the "fraudulent purpose of defeating the collection
of the plaintiff's just and legal claim against the estate of the
said testator, and to take so much of his estate as said property represents from liability to said claim," and plaintiff
alleged and charged: that said "conveyance was made without
any valuable consideration in law," that said deed, if made
at all, was made while the trust existed and was a just claim
and lien against testator's estate, and that Mrs. Strange had
notice and knowledge thereof.
Plaintiff prayed that the court. might adjudie and decree

CARPENTER v. STRANGE.
Statement of the Case.

that the bequest of the life estate "be taken and held free
from all and every condition thereunto attached in said will,
that the said condition be decreed as void, and that the title to

the life estate be absolutely vested in this plaintiff, and that
she be relieved from renouncing any claim for said trust
money, and that the trust estate be declared unaffected by
said condition in said will and a charge upon the estate of
the said testator;" that Mrs. Strange, executrix, be compelled
to account, that the deed from Merrill to Mrs. Strange be set
aside and-be declared inoperative and void and of no effect,-as
against the claims of plaintiff against testator's estate, and
that the sums of money found due plaintiff be made a lien on
the property described in the deed to Mrs, Strange and in the
will, and the decree be enforced against the same; that the
cause be referred, and Mrs. Strangd compelled to account as
the representative of A. P Merrill as trustee, and a suitable
trustee be appoined to carry out the trust, that on the rendition of the account, the sums reported due be paid over to the
trustee or to the cestuz quo trust, as the court should direct,
and for general relief.
Mrs. Strange was personally served and answered fully
She denied the trust; alleged that the trust moneys had been
paid over to plaintiff, averred that testator's personalty was
insignificant, set up a counter-claim, alleged the validity of
thadeed of Merrill to herself, and as to the devise to plaintiff,
insistk['that it ought to be taken and accepted by plaintiff as
a complete satisfaction of all her claims against Merrill's
estate, and that there was no obstacle to plaintiff's renunciation of such claims, and further alleged that decedent was
solvent and had sufficient property to pay his debts aside from
the real estate conveyed to her, and also set up the statute of
limitation. She prayed that the complaint be dismissed as to
her individually as well as executrix, and for judgment on her
counter-claim as executrix, "and that it may be adjudged and
declared by this court herein that the devise to, and the provisions made for, the plaintiff by said last will and testament
was and is, as it was intended by said testator to be, in full
satisfaction of any and all claims and demands which the

OCTOBER TERM, 1809.
Statement of the Case.

plaintiff had against him at the tune of the death- of -the testator or now has against his estate, -or-against this defendant in
her capacity of executrix of hisiast will and testament, that
in the event that the plaifftiff shall elect to take, or in the
event that it shall be adjlidged-that plaintiff take and accept,
the devise contained in said -asti-willdard testament so intended to be in satisfactIoi
of all her claims "and demands
against the estate of said testator, the plaintiff'in that case be
required and directed-by the Itidgment-of this court to execute
and deliver to this idefendant, in her-representative capacity,
as the executrix of said last will and, testament, and also to
this defendant in hr incividual capacitya-release in cue form
of law of this defendant and the- estate of said. testator from.
all her claims and demands, as irr saiLlast- will and testament
provided, as to the testator's estate, and that in the event
that plaintiff shall not elect to take or accept, nor be required
to take or accept, the devise to and provisions for her contained in said last will and testament, and it be found that
the .plaintiff is entitled to an accounting as to said alleged
trust estate as found, and to recover any amount for or on
account thereof, this defendant prays that in such case" her
counter-claim be set off against such recovery
To this answer a special replication was filed.
The cause was referred on January 29, 1880, to a referee,
who made his report July 1, 1880, whereupon it was ordered
and adjudged.
"1st. That Anna MY.Carpenter, the plaintiff in this action,_
do recover of or against the estate of the said Ayres P Merrill, deceased, and of the executrix as such, or of any person
or persons. having the possession, custody or control of said
estate or part thereof, the sum of sixteen thousand four hundred and thirty-six dollars and- seventy cents, hereby adjudged
to be due to plaintiff, or so much thereof as said estate or any
pkrt thereof will pay
"12d. That all of the above-mentioned sum of $16,436.70
be paid to the said plaintiff or her said attorney, except sixtvtwo hundred dollars thereof, which last-mentioned sum shall
be paid to a suitable person to be appointed by-said court as,

CARPENTER v. STRANGE.
Statement of the Case.

trustee for the purposes above referred to, and that such
appointment be made on notice by plaintiff to defendant,
William N. M. Merrill, or his attorney herein.
"3d. That the above-mentioned deed of conveyance by
Ayres P Merrill to Maria E. Strange is hereby adjudged to
be absolutely null and void from the beginning, so far as the
same in anywise affects the above-mentioned indebtedness of
said estate to said plaintift.
"4th. That any bequest or devise in said last will and testament of said.Ayres P 'errill contained in favor of any person or persons whatever is subject to the payment of the
whole amount above-mentioned as due from said estate to
plaintiff, and to interest thereon at the rate of six per cent per
annum until paid.
"5th. That plaintiff have execution against the property
which was of said Ayres P Merrill at the time of his death
for the amount last above-mentioned, and interest thereon
until paid, besides sheriff's fees and expenses as provided by
law"
On January 15, 1875, Mrs. Carpenter filed a bill in the Chancery Court of Shelby County, Tennessee, No. 1805, against Mrs.
Strange as executrix, setting forth in substance the same matters as alleged in her suit in New York, and praying, among
other things, that the real estate be attached and held "to
secure the recovery that complainant may recover on account
of this suit or any other one complainant has brought or may
bring on account of the premises set forth."
The writ of attachment was issued as prayed for and levied
upon the real estate described.
The bill was taken pro confesso April 30, 1875, and a.receiver appointed. In October this decree was set aside upon
the motion of Mrs. Strange and she filed a full answer. On
the 14th of February, 1876, the receiver was, on her motion,
discharged from exercising custody and control over lot No.
59, and directed to deliver possession thereof to her, but it was
ordered that the discharge should in no way affect the attachment of the property
In January, 1881, Mirs. Strange caused the will of her father

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

to be probated in Tennessee, where she had then taken up her
,residence, and letters were issued to her there.
On February 2, 1881, Mrs. Carpenter filed her bill in the
Chancery Court of Shelby County, Tennessee, No. 3912,
against Mrs. Strange as executrix and individually, and the
heirs, distributees and legatees under Merrill's will. This bill
set forth the death of Merrill in New York in November, 1873,
testate, the probate of the will in February, 1874, by Mrs.
Strange, and its probate in Tennessee in January, 1881, and
that complainant had "never renounced her claim upon the
testator's estate and has never claimed anything under said
will or received anything." She averred that she was a creditor of said estate on account of trust funds received by Merrill
iu his lifetime, and that the claim had been reduced to judgment in a suit brought against Mrs. Strange, as executrix, in
the Supreme Court of the county and State of New York,
which judgment was for the sum of $16,436.70. A certified
copy of the record in the New York case was made an exhibit
to the bill and prayed to be taken as a part thereof.
It -was then stated that Mrs. Strange became possessed of
Merrill's property soon after his death, that complainant,
being informed that Mrs. Strange had qualified as executrix
inTennessee, filed her bill, No. 1805, against her as such executrix to recover the amount due from Merrill, and among
other things sought to attach the real estate of the testator,
an& that it was attached and a receiver appointed, that by
the said proceedings she sought to impound the real estate and
hold it subject to the judgment sought to be recovered in New
York against the estate ana Mrs. Strange, who was a nonresident of fennessee, and said suit No. 1805 was ancillary
and auxiliary to the suit in New York, that judgment was
recovered in the latter; and that there was no need of proceedings to recover -judgment in No. 1805.
Complainant further alleged that Mrs. Strange had been
collecting rents of all the real estate in Tennessee, and as to
lot No. 59, the New York court, in the suit referred to, had
declared the deed to her of that lot fraudulent and void.
Complainant reiterated that she was a creditor of the estate

CARPENTER v. STRANGE.
Statement of the Case.

of Merrill in the sum of over $16,000 by judgment recovered,
to the record of which she again referred, and said that "she
seeks to recover on said judgment just as if specially sued on
in a law court. Said judgment is still owned by complainant
and is unsatisfied and unpaid, together with cost and interest.
Complainant believes there are other creditors of said estate,
the names of whom and the amounts due same she has not
been able to learn."
Complainant charged that the insolvency of the estate had
been duly suggested in the county court of Shelby County,
that the personalty had been exhausted in the payment of
debts, and that there remained nothing but the real estate to
pay such debts; and averred that she "files this bill in behalf
of herself and all other creditors and persons interested in the
estate who may wish to come in and be parties herein." Complainant further represented that lot No. 59 had become, by
virtue of the judgment of the New York court, assets of Merrill's estate, and liable for the payment of debts, together with
the other real estate, and prayed that the administration and
settlement of the estate be transferred from the county court
to the Shelby chancery court, that an account of the assets
and liabilities be begun, and a settlement had with Mrs.
Strange as executrix, and that she pass her accounts and settlement in the latter court, that Mrs. Strange be made to
account for the money left her in trust, that the legatees
underthe will account for legacies turned over to them and be
postponed until the debts were paid, that the creditors and
others interested be permitted to become parties to the proceedings, that the clerk and master make publication for ail
creditors to file their claims on or before the 15th of May,
1881, that the judgment recovered by the complainant iii
New York be allowed and a decree rendered thereon against
the estate, and that the realty be sold to pay complaiant's
claim, and also any other bona flde debts and claims. Complainant further prayed that the receiver in charge of part of
the. property be put in charge of lot No. 59, and that the
receiver in No. 1805 be made and continued receiver in this
case, that a new trustee be appointed to manage the trust

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

fund recovered for complainant in the suit in New York, under
the control and supervision of the court, and for general relief.
Publication of notice to creditors to prove their claims was
thereupon ordered. All parties defendant appeared, and the
minor heirs, by their guardian ad litem, moved to dismiss so
much of the bill "as seeks to enforce the alleged rights of
complainant as a devisee of A. P Merrill, deceased, for the
reason that it appears by the bill that the devise to complainant was conditioned upon the renunciation by her of all claim
against the estate of said testator for the fund held by him in
trust for complainant. The bill not only fails to show a compliance with this condition, but affirmatively shows the contrary, to wit, that complainant has elected to claim and sue
for said trust fund. The bill shows no sufficient reason for
non-compliance with the said condition, nor for setting it aside
as null and void." This motion was heard by the court and
overruled, the order reciting that the "solicitors for Mrs. Carpenter insisted that no such claim was asserted, and that for
their client they disclaimed any right or purpose to hold or
claim a devise under the will." A motion by Mrs. Strange to
dismiss the bill in No. 3912, because of the pendency of the
other bill, was overruled as premature.
Mrs. Strange answered as executrix and in her own right,
admitted that she had made no settlement as executrix in New
York, and that the personalty was disposed of, and among
other things pleaded and relied upon, as executrix and individually, the statutes of limitation of the State of Tennessee, and
as executrix that no personal assets whatever had come to her
hands to be administered m Tennessee, and she further
averred that the bequests in item No. 3 of the will had not
been paid, either in whole or in part, claimed lot No. 59 as
her own under the deed made to her in 1867, and stated that
the will left no realty belonging to Merrill except Nos. 9S
and 100 Madison Street. Answers were filed for the other
defendants, adopting Mrs. Strange's answer, and pleading
all of the statutes of limitation of the State of New York
and of the State of Tennessee applicable in any way to the
case. The answer of the minors submitted their case to thea

CARPENTER v. STRANGE.
Statement of the Case.

court, and also relied on the statutes of limitation. W N. M.
Meurill filed a claim in the suit, setting forth a trust created
by Mercer in 1857, by conveyance to A. P Merrill for the
benefit of claimant, and that the lands described in the conveyance were sold in 1860 for $6000 or thereabouts. And he
insisted that any surplus remaining after the payment of the
judgment in favor of his sister Anna M. should be paid into
court in trust for him and the heirs of his body, or for his
sister Anna M. in default of such heirs.
By consent, of the parties the two cases, Nos. 1805 and 3912,
were consolidated and ordered to be heard together, and upon
the hearing an authenticated copy of the record, proceedings
and judgment in the Supreme Court of New York m the case
of Carpenter v. Strange, Executrnw, et at., which has been hereinbefore referred to, and was filed as an exhibit to the bill in
No. 3912, was put in evidence. This transcript, although the
record in this court shows that the suit m New York was
brought shortly after February, 1874, commences with an
amended, summons, dated March 19, 1878, and an amended
complaint, which was sworn to cn that day The caption
runs in the name of the people of the State of New York and
recites that they "having examined the records and files in the
office of the clerk of the county of New York and clerk of the
Supreme Court of said State for said county, do find a certain
judgment roll there remaining in the words and figures following, the same being a full and perfect record, to wit," (and
then follows the record) and the conclusion is. "All of which
we have caused by these presents to be exemplified and the
seal of our said Supreme Court to be hereunto affixed." This
is tested m the name of the presiding justice of the Supreme
Court for the city and county of New York and subscribed by
the clerk and the seal of the court affixed, and accompanied
by the certificate of said justice to the effect that the clerk
whose name was subscribed to the exemplification was the clerk
of the county of New York and of the Supreme Court, duly
appointed and sworn, and that full faith and credit were due
to his official acts, and that the seal affixed to the exemplification was the seal of the Supreme Court and the attestation

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

was in due form of law; and a further certificate of the clerk
was attached under the seal of the court, that the judge who
certified was presiding justice of the Supreme Court.
When the record of the New York court was offered in evidence in No. 3912, counsel for the defendants objected to its
admission "upon the ground that neither the executrix in
Tennessee noi the heirs or legatees were bound by it, and that
it was incompetent and inadmissible as evidence in this cause
for the reason that it was not in any way binding upon said
respondents in this proceeding, and for the further reason that
the said record shows upon its face that the judgment was
erroneous and ought not to have been rendered." The chancellor, however, admitted the record, and, being of opinion
that Mrs. Carpenter was entitled to recover from Mrs. Strange.
executrix, according to the tenor and effect of said proceedings
and judgment, decreed that she recover the sum of $16,436.70.
with interest. The chancery court further held that the statutes of limitation constituted no valid defences against the
recovery, and further held and decreed "that the filing of this
bill was an election by complainant to renounce all benefit
under the will of said Merrill, and she is barred and precluded
from ever claiming anything under its provisions." It was
further ordered that a trustee be appointed to receive and control $6200 of the recovery when realized, according to the
terms of Mercer's deed of settlement for the benefit of complainant, and that the balance of the recovery belonged to
Mrs. Carpenter as her own individual property, and that this
branch of the cause be referred to a master to take proof and
report (1) What assets have come or should have come to the
hands of said executrix in this State. (2) What debts are due
and owing to the creditors of said Merrill, deceased. (3) What
realty belongs to said estate, and upon what terms should a
sale be made. (4) What debts of said Merrill have been paid
in this State.
The chancellor further ordered that upon the third inqury
either party might submit proofs as to the ownership of lot
No. 59, the court refusing to set aside the deed to Mrs. Strange
by force of the judgment or decree in the New York court,

CARPENTER v. STRANGE.
Statement of the Case.

holding that the order of that court declaring the deed void
was inoperative in this case, and reserving the question as to
its validity as to complainant and other creditors of Merrill,
and also all other questions not adjudged, including costs.
The record in No. 1805 was read by defendants upon the
hearing.
An appeal to the Supreme Court of the State was taken by
the defendants from so much of the decree in No. 3912 as
,warded a recovery to complainant against Merrill's estate,
and ordered the settlement of the accounts of his personal
representative, and by complainant from so much of that
decree as refused to declare the deed of Merrill to Mrs. Strange
void by force of the New York judgment.
In No. 1805 the court ordered complainant's bill to be dismissed, and an appeal was prayed therefrom. The appeals
having been duly prosecuted, the cases were referred to commissioners under the Tennessee practice, who made an elaborate report, holding that the chancellor erred in not decreeing
that the deed to Mrs. Strange was void as to Mrs. Carpenter's
debt, and that he should have held the land therein conveyed
liable and subjected it to the payment of her debt, and also
that the bill in No. 1805 should not have been dismissed except
without prejudice, and, with these modifications, that the
decree should be affirmed and the cause remanded for further
proceedings, the estate wound up and administered as an insolvent estate, and, upon exhaustion of the personalty, that
the lands should be sold to pay the debts.
Exceptions were filed to the report of the commission, and
the Supreme Court of Tennessee heard the cause -upon the
chancery court record and the report and exceptions, and April
16, 1887, set aside the report and reversed the decree of the
court below, but on the 20th of April, on motion of the defendants, vacated that decree and entered another in lieu and stead
thereof, which stated that the court was of opinion (1) That
the record of the proceedings in New York was fatally incomplete and defective in that the transcript commenced with an
amended complaint, and because the certificate was insufficient,
(2) That the New York court had no power or jurisdiction to

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

adjudge the conveyancq.by Merrill to Mrs. Strange fraudulent
and void as to creditors, and did not have power, by force or
virtue of its judgment or decree alone, to annul Mrs. Strange's
claim of title under said conveyance.
"III. That upon the pleadings, proceedings and evidence
as the same appear in the transcript of this cause the complainant has elected to claim, assert and sue for a life estate,
under the devise of the same to her in the first item oT the will
of said A. P Merrill, in and to the property described in said
will as 'the western portion of the double tenement purchased
of Adlai 0. Harris, being the house and lot No. 98, on Madison Street, Memphis, Tennessee,' and that by the terms of
said will said devise to complainant was made upon condition
that said complainant should renounce and surrender the claim
against the estate of said testator for which she sues in these
proceedings, and that complainant, having thus elected to
cla.n and assert titleo as devisee under said will, must give
effect to and perform the condition upon which said devise
to her was made, and must renounce and surrender her said
claim against the testator's estate.
"Complainant, therefore, is entitled to recover a life estate
'in the premises as aforesaid, but is not entitled to recover upon
her alleged money demand against the testator's estate, as
shown in the record.
"IV The several questions arising upon the record touching the alleged bar of the statute of limitations, the force and
effect of the money judgmen't rendered in the court of New
York in favor of complainant and against defendant, Maria E.
Strange, as executrix of said will, and whether said judgment,
if duly authenticated and admitted in evidence, would be conclusive or of prma famie force only against the executrix of
the sanme will in Tennessee, and the further question whether
said judgment in New York against the executrix there qualified would be of any force, either pnm famie or conclusive,
as against the heirs or devisees of the realty m Tennessee, or
whether the said proceedings am New York would, as against
said heirs or devisees, operate to arrest the running of the
statutes of limitation of this State, the court does not deem it
necessary here to pronounce any opinion."

CARPENTER v. STRANGE.
Opinion of the Court.

A final order and decree was then rendered in accordance
with these propositions and the cause remanded to the Chancery Court of Shelby County with directions. A petition for
rehearing was made and.overruled, and a writ of error allowed
to this court.
X" Henry Wise Garnettfor plaintiff in error.
M Badzn was on the brief.

.Mr James

Ar TV H'allett Phillipsfor defendant in error.
TUSTIcE FuLLER, after stating the case, delivered
of
the court.
the opinion
MR. CMEF

No objection was made in the Chancery Court of Shelby
County to the record of the proceedings in the Supreme Court
of New York upon the ground that the transcript was incomplete or not properly authenticated. If the objections were
well taken, they were removable, and they should have been
raised in the court below The record was, however, in our
opinion duly exemplified, Rev Stat. § 905; Aaxwell v. Stewart,
22 Wall. 77; and was in itself complete.
The judgment or decree of the New York court was entitled
to the same credit and effect in the State of Tennessee that it
had in the State of New York where it was rendered. Did it
receive it2
Mirs. Carpenter, Mrs. Strange and A. P Merrill were all
citizens of New York at the time of the death of the latter
and the probate of his will. The action was commenqed
against Mrs. Strange as executrix, upon personal service, and
she appeared and answered the complaint. That complaint
alleged that A. P Merrill was indebted to the plaintiff for
certain trust moneys belonging to her which he had converted
to his own use, and that he had conveyed to Mrs. Strange
certain real state in Tennessee under such circumstances as
caused the deed to be inoperative and void as against plaintiff's claim. And it was further averred that A. P Merrill
had devised a life estate to plaintiff in certain real estate, upon

OCTOBER TERIM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

condition that she would renounce her claim for the trust
moneys, and that she had not renounced, nor had she refused
to renounce, because others were interested in the trust fund,
and for the further reason that the condition was against Ponscience and justice. She therefore prayed for a decree against
the defendant as executrix for the trust moneys, that the condition annexed! to the devise be declared void, and the title to
the real estate named be vested in her freed therefrom, and
that the deed of Merrill to Mrs. Strange be declared void as
against plaintiff's claim.
Mrs. Strange answered the, complaint, fully, and among
other things denied the existence of the claim, alleged the
validity of the deed of. Merrill to herself, and as to the devise
to plaintiff of the life estate, insisted that that devise ought to
be taken and accepted by plaintiff as a full satisfaction of her
claims against Merrill's estate, and prayed that it be so adjudged and decreed, and that plaintiff be compelled to release.
The parties being thus at issue before a court of competent
jurisdiction, the decree of that court put an end to the controversies properly litigated -between them. There was no question but that the Supreme Court of New York had complete
jurisdiction over the person and over the subject matter, unless
in reference to the deed made by Merrill to Mrs. Strange,
which involves questions requiring separate consideration.
The judgment or decree was that Mrs. Carpenter recover
against the estate of the decedent, and of the executrix as
such, the sum of $16,436.70, that the conveyance by A. P
Merrill to Mrs. Strange was void so far as it affected the
indebtedness of the estate to Mrs. Carpenter, and that any
bequest or devise in A. P Merrill's will in favor of any person
or persons whatever was subject to the payment of the judgment. In the New York suit and in the bills of complaint in
the Chancery Court of Shelby County, Mrs. Carpenter made
gubstantially the same allegations in regard to the devise and
its condition, and Mrs. Strange the 'same defence, insisting not
that Mrs. Carpenter had elected, but that she ought to be compelled to accept the devise in full satisfaction of all claims and
demands that Mrs. Carpenter-had against Merrill at the time

CARPENTER v. STRANGE.
Opinion of the Court.

of his death, or now had against his estate,. or against :Mrs.
Strange in. her capacity as executrix.
By the New York judgment Mrs. Carpenter's prayer that
the devise should be freed from the condition, and Mrs.
Strange's that Mrs. Carpenter should be required to accept the
devise with the condition, were both in legal effect denied.
And by the terms of the judgment the plaintiff recovered the
amount of the trust money This she could not have done if
she had elected to take under the will, which would have subjected her to the operation of the condition. That jtidgment
was a-judgment de bonws testatorm, and it became Mrs. Strange's
duty as executrix to apply the property of the testator whereever situated to the payment of the judgment.
There is no doubt whatever that a Federal question is presented by the recbrd, but it is said that, conceding this, yet
the Supreme Court of Tennessee also decided the case upon a
question of general law sufficiently broad to support the judgment even if the Federal question was decided erroneously
And the ground thus referred to is that that court held that
Mrs. Carpenter could not recover as a creditor of the estate of
her father because she had elected to claim under his will as
devisee. But that question was not open to the Supreme
Court to decide, if it gave full faith and credit to the judicial
proceedings of a sister State, since it had already been passed
upon and. determined by the New York court, whose judgment was put in evidence. That court, as we have already
stated, not only refused to sustain Mrs. Carpenter's contention
as to the invalidity of the condition, and M rs. Strange's, that
the devise must be accepted, but rendered judgment for the
money and thereby determined that Mrs. Carpenter had forfeited her right to the devise. In that suit the parties were the
same, the subject matter was the same, the issues were the same,
as in this, and the judgment not only bound the estate, but
bound Mrs. Carpenter in respect of the devise as well.
The decision before us is exactly to the contrary It obliterates the judgment, and turns Mrs. Carpenter from a judgment creditor into a devisee. We perceive no ground upon
which it was competent for the court to do this. No action

OCTOBER TERM,

1890.

Opinion of the Court.

of Mrs. Carpenter appears upon the pleadings, proceedings
and evidence, which operated to open up the New York judgment and allow that question to be again passed upon. On
the contrary, she asserted her claim as creditor throughout all
the proceedings, and her counsel in this case, before the hearing and on the motion that so much of the bill as referred to
her alleged rghts as devisee be dismissed, disuiaimed any right
or purpose to hold or claim a devise under the will, and insisted that no such claim was set up.
No question of election proper, where something is given by
will to one who is entitled to some other thing disposed of to
another, arose in any stage of this litigation. This was a case
of an express condition annexed to the devise, upon compliance with which the devisee might take, and not otherwise,
and the institution of the suit in New York would appear in
itself to have disposed of any right to the devise. Rogers v.
-Law,1 Black, 253. The position that because Mrs. Carpenter
may have entertained the idea that the trust money was probably invested in the lot devised, and that the condition was so
unjust that it ought not to be enforced, and gave expression
to those views in the pleadings on her part in the three suits
brought essentially to enforce her money claim, she should,
therefore, be subjected to an estoppel, operating as a forfeiture
of that claim, certain in every material particular, both as
regarded the obligation to elect and the act by which the election was held to have been made, is one to which we cannot
give our assent, but it is enough that the New York judgment was to the contrary, and that that judgment ought to
have been respected.
In fill v "Tucker, 13 How 458, it was held- that as the
interest of an executor in the testator's estate is °what tLe testator gives him, while that of an administrator is only that
which the law of, his appointment enjoins, executors in different States are, as regards the creditors of the testator, executors in privity, bearing to the creditors the same responsibility
as if there was only one executor. And that although a judgment obtained against one executor in one State is not conelusive upon an executor in another, yet it is admissible in

CARPENTER v. STRANGE.
Opinion of the Court.

evidence to show that a demand has been carried into judgment, and the other executors are precluded by it from pleading
prescription or the statute of limitations upon the original cause
of action.
But there the testator appointed different executors in two
different States. In the case at bar there was but one executrix, and she was a citizen of the domicil of the testator and
of the creditor, and the judgment rendered in that jurisdiction
was conclusive against her as executrix when she took out the
letters testamentary in Tennessee, because it was a judgment
by a court of competent jurisdiction upon the same subject
matter, between the same parties and for the same purpose.
Aspde v Nixon, I How 467.
She was in privity with the decedent as to his property by
the terms of the will, and the judgment against her ag executrix in New York bound her in Tennessee upon the probate of
the will and her qualification there. It is unnecessary to
consider whether thd legatees or heirs could have made any
defence to the judgment upon the merits, for there was no
attempt to do so.
But the adjudication of the Supreme Court of New York,
that the deed of Merrill to Mrs. Strange was void so far as
affecting the indebtedness of the estate to Mrs. Carpenter,
rests upon far different grounds. That suit was instituted
against Mrs. Strange solely as executrix, and did not purport to
implead her individually The attack upon the deed seems to
have been predicated upon the theory that the realty therein
described belonged to the corpus of the estate, and could only
be claimed by Mrs. Strange as devisee, and to have been
thrown in as ancillary to the main object of the suit, which
was the-recovery of judgment for the indebtedness against
Mrs. Strange as executrix. But Mrs. Strange claimed title as
an individual, and, under the pleadings as they stood, it might
well be held that dealing in any way with the real estate was
not legitimately within the issues. The objection, however,
goes deeper than this.
The real estate was situated in Tennessee and governe& by
the law of its situs, and while by means of its power over the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

person of a party a court of equity may in a proper case compel him to act in relation to property not within its jurisdiction, its decree does not operate directly upon the property
nor affect the title, but is made effectual through the coercion
of the defendant, as, for instance, by directing a deed to be
executed or cancelled by or on behalf of the party The court
"has no inherent. power, by the mere force of its decree, to
annul a deed, or to establish a title." Hart v Sansomn, 110
U. S. 151, 155.
Hence, although in cases of trust, of contract and of fraud,
the jurisdiction of a court of chancery may be sustained over
the person, notwithstanding lands not within the jurisdiction
may be affected by the decree, (3 asse v Watts, 6 Oranch, 148,)
yet it does not follow that such a decree is in itself necessarily
binding upon the courts of the State where the land is situated. -To declare the deed to Mrs. Strange null and void, in
virtue alone of the deoree in New York, would be to attribute
to that decree the force and effect of a judgment 9n Pon by a
court having no jurisdiction over the res.
By its terms no provision whatever was made for its enforcement as against Mrs. Strange in respect of the real estate.
No conveyance was directed, nor was there any attempt in
any way to exert control over her in view of the conclusion
that the court. announced. Direct action upon the real estate
was certainly not within the power of the court, and as it did
not order Mrs. Strange to take any action with reference to it,
and she took Aone, the courts of Tennessee were not obliged
to surrender jurisdiction to the courts of New York over real
estate in Tennessee, exclusively subject to its laws and the
jurisdiction of its courts. Story Confl. Laws, § 543, Whart.
Confl. Laws, §§ 288, 289, Watins v H=olman, 16 Pet. 25,
_Mort7ern IndianaRailroad.v Mftid. Cent. Railroad,15 How
233, Dams v Headley, 22 N. J Eq. (7 C. E. Green) 115,
.AXiller v. Brdeong, 7 Baxter, 531, Cooley v Searlett, 98 Illinois, 316, Gardnerv Ogden, 22 N. Y 327.
Thejudgment of the Supreme Court of Tennessee ss reversed,
and the cause remandedforfurtherproceedings not 'ncon-

szstent wzta thzs optnton.

