OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

actions were brought against the receivership generally or
against the corporation by name, "in the hands of," or "in
the possession of," a receiver without stating the name of the
individual, it would more accurately represent the character
or status of the defendant. So long as the property of the
corporation remains m the custody of the court and is administered through the agency of a receiver, such receivership is
continuous and uninterrupted until the court relinquis)1es its
hold upon the property, though its personnel may be subject
to repeated changes. Actions against the receiver are in law
actions agaInst the receivership, or the funds in the hands of
the receiver, and his contracts, misfeasances, negligences and
liabilities are official and not personal, and judgments against
him as receiver are payable only from the funds in his hands.
As the right given by the statute to sue for the acts and transactions of the receivership is unlimited, we cannot say that it
should be restricted to causes of action arising from the conduct of the receiver against whom the suit is brought, or his
agents.
The defence is frivolous, and the judgment of the Supreme
Court of Illinois must be
Affirmed.
The CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTI
GRAY, having been
absent when this case was submitted, took no part in its
decision.

MAGOWAN v. NEW YORK BELTING AND PACKING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.

No. 30. Argued October 14, 15, 1891.-Deeded October 26, 1891.
Letters patent No. 86,296, granted to the New York Delting and Packing
Company, as assignee of Dennis C. Gately, the inventor, January 26,
1869, for "improvements in vulcanized i'dia-rubber packing," involved
invention, and were valid.

MAGOWAK v. NEW YOR1K BELTING CO.
Opinion of the Court.
The Gately packing explained in view of prior packings.
The fact considered, that that packing went at once into such an extensive
public use, as almost to supersede ill packings made under other methods, and that it was put upon the market at a price from 15 to 20 per
cent higher than the old packings, although it cost 10 per cent less to
produce it.

IN EoQuIT.

To restrain the infringement of letters patent,

.nd for an account. Decree in complainant's favor, from
vhich respondent appealed. The case is stated in the opinion.
_MP F C. Lowtho2p for appellant.
M'r B. _F Lee for appellee.
him on the brief.

r W H7. L. Lee was with

Mii. JusTcIE BLATCnoRD delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity, brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of New Jersey, by the New
York Belting and Packing Company, a Connecticut corporation, against Allen Magowan, Spencer M. Alpaugh and Frank
A. Magowan, to recover for the infringement of letters patent
No. 86,296, granted January 26, 1869, to the plaintiff, as assignee of Dennis C. Gately, the inventor, for "improvements
in vulcanized india-rubber packing."
The specification says
"My invention relates to packing of the kind for which letters patent were issued to Charles McBurney on the 28th of
June, 1859. This packing, which is usually employed in the
stuffing-boxes of pistons, is composed of piles of cloth or canvas, cut bias, coated with rubber, and pressed together and
vulcanized. When thus made, the packing is very solid, and
posses es but little elastic property, 3o that, as it wears, there
is some difficulty in maintaining a tight joi- between it and
the piston. To obviate this disadvantaze is the object of my
invention, which consists in orming tlie packing with a backing of pure vulcanized rubber, or rubber of sufficient elasticity
for the purpose desired, which may be covered and protected
by a strip of canvas or other suitable fabric.

1:31

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

"In the drawing a represents the ordinary packing-band,
which is backed by the rubber strip b, the whole being vulcanized together, so as to be solidly united, and the rubber may
be covered, if desired, by the canvas strip c, to protect it from
injury
"When the packing is placed in the stuffing-box and around
the piston, and the follower is screwed down, so as to compress the packing, the rubber strip will also be compressed,
.and forced against the sides, of the stuffing-box, and, as it cannot expand in the direction of the follower, it acts as a spring
to h'old the- packing against the piston-rod, and to prevent
.leakage, cmpensating for any slight wear in the packing, and
making a tight joint between the rod and the packing.
"It would be manifestly impracticable to impart this quality of .elasticity to the body of the packing, or that part which
is in contact with, or bears against the rod, but by backing it
with an elastic cushion, which, upon being compressed between
the follower and the sides of the stuffing-box, acts as above
described, the packing is possessed of every qualification re,quired for its successful use, and a tighter and better joint is
made than has heretofore been practicable."
The drawing is as follows

MAGOWANI v. NEW YORK BELTIffG CO.

335

Opinion of the Court.

The claim of the patent is as follows
"The combination, with the packing, such as herein specified, of an elastic backing or cushion of vulcanized india-rubber, substantially as and for the purposes set forth."
The patent so referred to, issued to McBurney June 28,
1859, was No. 24,569, and was granted for an "improvement
in packing for stuffing-boxes of pistons." The specification
and drawings of the ALcBurnev patent were as follows
"Fig. 1 is a plan of the packing in the sheet, Fig. 2, a strip
:is it is bent into a circle when it is in use. Fig. 3, a section
through a stuffing-box with the packing inserted. The hempen
packing heretofore employed in stuffing-boxes is not easily
adjusted so as to produce a uniform pressure upon all sides of
the rod, and an elastic, durable, and substitute for it has long
been a desideratum. In expefimenting for this purpose I have
laid together a suitable number of plies of canvas or cotton
cloth with india-rubber between them, forming a cake of packing, which was afterward cut into strips. This was found to
be objectionable for three reasons: 1st, the longitudinal
threads of the canvas rendered the strips of packing very difficult to bend so as to insert it into the stuffing-box; 2d, the
short transverse threads prevented the packing from yielding
with a sufficient ease when the follower was brought upon it,
3d, the longitudinal threads of the strips were drawn out of
place by the motion of the rod, leaving the packing with an
uneven surface. The same packing was then cut into rings,
the inner circle of which was of the diameter of the rod and
the other circle of a diameter just sufficient to fill the stuffingbox; but it is obvious that this method of cutting the packing
is very wasteful of material, as each stuffing-box requires a
ring ofa particular size both upon its inner and outer circle,
and, as the ends of the threads are exposed to wear at four
points around the circle, while at the four intermediate points
the sides of the threads are exposed, these rings wear very
irreularly, and when worn they become useless. To remove
all these objections is the object of my present invention, the
nature of which I will now proceed to describe. I take 25
pounds of india-rubber, 2 pounds of sulphur, and 4 to 8 pounds

OOTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

of silica or plumbago. With this compound, after it is suitably ground and mixed, canvas or other suitable fabric of cotton, linen or hemp is coated upon each side and a sufficient
number of plies of such fabric are united by a heavy pressure
sr by rolling. The packing is then vulcanized, and to prepare
it for use it is cut diagonally into strips (as seen in Fig. 1).
These strips are then cut of the right length and are bent into
rings (Fig. 2), which are inserted into the stuffing-box, as seen
in Fig. 3, in which A is the box, B Ithe follower, 0' the packing, D the valve or piston-rod. In lieu of cutting the packing
into short strips and bending it into rings, as above described,
a longer strip may be wound spirally around the rod, the pressure of the follower bringing it to a uniform bearing upon the
rod. It will be observed that, when cut diagonally, as above
described, the ends only of all the threads are exposed to wear,
by which it is caused to wear slowly and uniformly, whilst
there are no longitudinal threads to resist the action of bending the strips, and they are consequently easily coiled within
the stuffing-box; also,-as there are no threads running transversely of the packing, it is easily caused to expand against
the rod by pressure, and thus, as the packing wears, it may
be again and again tightened up by bringing down the follower. In lieu of making the packing of continuous strips of
canvas the latter may be cu into lozenge-shaped pieces, Fig. 4,
which when matched together (Fig. 5) may be cut longitudinally, as upon the line y y, and produce the same effect.
"The compound which I have given above is that which I
prefer for the manufacture of the packing, but both the in.gredients and the proportions in which they are used may be
variously modified without altering the spirit of my invention.
Even the vulcanizing process may be dispensed with, and I do
not, therefore, restrict myself thereto, but what I clain as my
invention and desire to secure by letters .patent is a packing
for stuffing-boxes composed of canvas and india-rubber, as set
forth, and cut diagonally, as described."
The answer to the bill denied infringement, -nd alleged that
Gately was not the first-n-d original inventor of the thing
.patented, referring to various prior patents. and setting up that,

MAGOWAN v. NEW YORK BELTING CO.
Opinion of the Court.

in view of. the state of the art at the time of Gately's alleged
invention, the claim of the patent was too broad, covering
more than that of which Gately was the first and originl
inventor; that the specification failed to distinguish sufficient.ly
what was novel from what was old in the art, and was not

4-

distinct and"clear, and that, in view of the state of the art,
what was described and claimed in the patent exhibited no
invention on the part of Gately Issue being joined, proofs
were taken, and the case was heard before Judge Nixon, then
the district judge, who entered an interlocutory decree in favor
VOL. CXLI-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

of the plaintiff for an account of profits and damages and a
perpetual injunction. The court, in its opinion, 27 Fed. Rep.
362, held that the patent had been infringed by the defendants, and decided, in view of the exhibits put in to show anticipation and want of patentability, that the combination of
Gately involved invention. On the report of the master, exceptions to which were filed by the defendants and waived'
and withdrawn, a final decree was entered for the plaintiff, for
$9026.66 profits and $742.05 costs. The defendants have
appealed.
On the question of novelty and patentability, the defendants
introduced the following letters patent English patent No.
384, October 14, 1852, to Joseph Henry Tuck, English patent
No. 1865, August 25, 1854, to the same, United States patent
No. 13,145, June 26, 1855, to the same, English patent No.
19, January 4, 1865, to Edward Keirby, English patent No.
647, March 8, 1865, to Francis Wise, English patent No.
2064, August 11, 1866, to John Edwin Keirby, and United
States patent No. 63,071, March 19, 1867, to James P McLean.
They also introduced certain devices testified to by the witnesses Allen Magowan, William F Harrison, William W
Sniith., James S. Lever, and S. Lloyd Wiegand.
The Gately packing is an improvement on the McBurney
packing, and the Gately patent claims the combination with
the M Burney packing of the elastic backing or cushion of
vulcanized india-rubber which Gately's specification describes.
The McBurney patent describes a packing made of alternate
layers of canvas and india-rubber, the whole being vulcanized
into bne homogeneous mass. McBurney, in his patent, explains
as an important feature connected with his invention, that the
layers of canvas are to be cut bias, so that the strip of packing,
when finished, will be sufficiently flexible to enable it to be
bent around the piston-rod and placed in the stuffing-box with
comparative ease, which would not be the case if the canvas
were cut along the line of any one thread. The packing, after
being thus made, is to be so used that the ends of the threads
are exposed to wear -that is to say, are to lie against the
moving surface of the piston-rod. Gately says, in his specifi-

MAGOWAN v. NEW YORK BELTING -CO.
Opunon of the Court.

cation, that this McBurney packing did not possess a sufficient
amount of elasticity to operate satisfactorily in all conditions
- that is, the gland of the stuffing-box would not force the
packing with such tightness against the piston-rod that a tight
joint would result. The improvement of Gately consisted in
the combination with the McBurney packing of a vulcanized
rubber backing of pure gum - that is, gum free from layers
of canvas, which backing was to lie between the portion of
the strip of packing which was made in accordance with the
McBurney. specification, and the walls of the stuffing-box.
Gately states-that this backing is to be vulcanized to that portion of the packing which is to be subjected to wear, and the
whole is to form one homogeneous mass which can be put into
and taken from the stuffing-box as a single piece. The portion
of the strip which is made according to the IvcBarney patent
furnishes a wearing surface, the character of which always
remains the same and is not altered under wear, and the pure
rubber at the back furnishes an elastic backing, which serves
always to keep the wearing portion of the packing in close
contact with the piston-rod, when such pure gum backing is
pressed upon by the gland of the stuffing-box. By this combination a new article results, namely, one which presents
always the same- character, of surface under wear, and one
which has sufficient elasticity to make a tight joint. The
union by vulcanization of the front and back portions of the.strip of packing serves also to insure the position of the packing in the stuffing-box, which result would not be attained if
the front and the back portions were formed separately and
placed in the stuffing-box as separate articles, the result of such
union being that the ends of the threads of the parts submitted
to wear must always be in contact with the piston-rod.
We think there was patentable invention in producing this
article of Gately's, in view of everything put in evidence by
the defendants, and in view of the McBurney patent. In the
United States patent to Keirby, and the English patent to
Keirby, the packing shown differs from the Gately packingin
that the wearing surface is not entirely on one side of the
strip of rubber which gives elasticity to th6 packing, but

OCTOBER TER-, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

the rubber is in the centre of the portion which is to be subjected to the wear of the piston-rod. One of the features of
the Gately packing-consists in locating the rubber between the
part of the packing which is to be exposed to wear and the
walls of the box and the elastic portion is located where it
will not be subjected to wear. Moreover, neither of the
Keirby patents shows layers of canvas cut bias and so arranged
in the packing strips that the ends of the threads are the parts
submitted to wear and neither of them shows layers of canvas cut bias, located so that the ends of their threads will wear
upon the piston-rod, and secured to one another and the rubber core by vulcanization, but on the contrary, as the Keirby
packings wear they are continually presenting to the pistonrod surfaces having new characteristics.
The Wise packing is similar to the packing of the Keirby
patents, except that outside of the canvas or other fabric an
exterior metallic armor is provided, which takes the wear of
the piston-rod. All that is above said in relation to the packing of the Keirby patents is true-of the Wise packing, and in
addition, it was intended in the Wise packing that the metallic
exterior should be the wearing portion and should make the
joint between the packing and the piston-rod. :None of these
packings show anything which bears upon the Gately invention, except that they show piston-rod packings, but not having the construction or the characteristics found in the Gately
invention. As before remarked, the McBurney patent describes
only that part of Gately's invention which forms the wearing
surface of the Gately packing.
The McLean packing was made up of two parts, one consisting of vulcanized rubber and the other of cork. Of course
the front and back portions of this packing could not be united
by vulcanization, and the two parts were secured together by
a metal strip, which was wound around both the cork and the
rubber. In using this packing, the metal strips were first subjected to wear, and, when they were worn through, the cork
took the wear, and when this occurred the rubber backing
and the cork wearing portion were no longer secured the
one to the other, but became separate and independent pieces

MfAGOWAN

. NEW TORK BELTING CO.
Opinion of the Court.

-n the stuffing-box. The character of the wearing surface
altered, until such time as the two parts were left free in the
box. When the packing was removed from the box, it would
come out in two pieces, the rubber back being one piece and
the cork front the other piece. This packing does not show
such a wearing portion as the Gately patent shows, and is not
a homogeneous article, made one by the -vulcanization of the
parts together, but is a compound article made up of two
pieces so tied or secured together that; after a slight amount
of wear, the parts cease to perform the purposes for which they
were originally intended. The Gately packing is made at the
beginning and sold as one homogeneous strip, and exists as
such until it is rendered useless by extreme wear, and taken
from the stuffing-box, and even at that time it is still a unit,
and not two separate pieces disconnected from each other.
The Tuck patent of 1852 describes canvas coated with rubber, unvulcanized, which canvas is to be rolled upon itself and
used in the stuffing-box in connection with rigid weaxing surfaces, the object of the canvas being to force such surfaces
into contact with the piston-rod. This patent does not sho w
a single feature of the Gately invention.
The Tuck patent of 1854 shows nine forms of packing, none

of which are vulcanized. All of the forms consist practically
of a rubber core and canvas rolled around-such core. In some
cases the core is located centrally and in some at one side of
the roll, but in all the canvas is rolled upon itself or upon the
-core, and, when the packing is in use and is subjected to wear,
the character of the surface presented to the moving pistonrod is continually changing, it being Tart of the time a rubber
surface and part of the time a canvas surface.
The Tuck patent of 1855 shows five different forms of packing, which are, in substance, copies of five examples shown in
the Tuck English patent of 1S54. There is no vulcanization
referred to in this patent of 1855, and the wearing surface is
composed of canvas cut on the bias, and rolled around the
elastic or rubber portion, which itself is saturated with rubber.
The rubber core is not insisted upon as a necessity, but -the
patent says that it is used at times for the purpose of giving
greater elasticity to the packing.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

All three of the Tuck patents show packing which was different in principle from the Gately packing, in that the wearing portion was of such a character that it was continually
changing in its conditions during the wear of the packing, and
did not, like the Gately packing, present continuously to the
piston-rod a surface having the same characteristics. In the
Gately packing, the wearing portion of it is not formed by
rolling canvas either upon itself or upon a ruboer core, but is
formed of layers of canvas secured to themselves and to the
rubber backing by vulcanization. In fact, the Gately packing
could not be made if it were impossible to vulcanize rubber,
whereas all of the Tuck packings are capable of being made
independently of vulcanization, their structure being such that
canvas is used as a binding or cementing means in connection
with any adhesive compound to keep the packing together
and to form the strips. In the Gately packing the parts are
kept together and in place solely by reason of the fact that
the rubber has been subjected to vulcanization, thus making
the packing a homogeneous whole, and not a strip rolled up
upon itself and thus kept together. Therefore, none of the
patents introduced by the defendants show the Gately invention. It is true that MeBurney shows a part of the combination or article patented by Gately, and McLean shows a rubber
backing, but the invention of Gately was new and patentable.
As to the other evidence and exhibits put in by the defendants, none of them show a rubber backing of pure gum and a
front wearing portion united by vulcanization to the back portion, so as to produce a homogeneous article, but they all
show something which Gately dispensed with, that is, an elantic core and a wrapping of fibrous or textile material around
such core. Where the packing has a covering of textile
Inaterial wrapped around the elastic portion of the packing,
the wearing surface presented to the piston-rod cannot contmnuously, as in the Gately packing, be identically the same
surface in character, nor can such feature exist, unless Gately's
or McBurney's wearing portion and the elastic backing are
united as a homogeneous whole by the process of vulcanization.
Within the requirements of Atlantc Works v. Brady, 107

MAGOWAN v. NEW YORK BELTING CO.
Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 192, 200, we think that Gately made a substantial discovery or invention, which added to our knowledge and made
a step in advance in the useful arts; that within the case of
Eollister v Benedict .Manufacturng Co., 113 U. S. 59, 73,
what Gately did was not merely the work of a skilled
mechanic, who applied only his common knowledge and
experience, and perceived the reason of the failure of McBurney's packing, and supplied what was obviously wanting, and
that the present case involves not simply "the display of the
expected skill of the calling," involving "only the exercise of
the ordinary faculties of reasoning upon the materials supplied
by a special knowledge, and the facility of manipulation which
results from its habitual and intelligent practice," but shows
the creative work of the inventive faculty
The defendants made two forms of packing, one of them
identically the packing of the Gately patent, in the other, a
little over one-half of the packing was constructed identically
in accordance with the Gately invention, and a little less than
one-half was so constructed, except that the canvas was not
cut on the bias. This feature made the packing relatively
stiffer and injured it, and, even as it was made, like surfaces,
or surfaces of the same character, were presented to the pistonrod throughout the entire wear of the packing in the box.
It is remarked by Judge Nixon in his opinion, as a fact not
to be overlooked and having much weight, that the Gately
packing went at once into such an extensive public use, as
almost to supersede all packings made under other methods,
and that that fact was pregnant evidence of its novelty, value
and usefulness. Smth v Goodyear Dental Vulcanzte Co., 93
U. S. 486, 495, 496, Loom Co. v Higgzns, 105 U. S. 580, 591.
It may also be added, that the evidence shows that the Gately
packing was.put upon the market at a price from 15 to 20 per
cent higher than the old packings, although it cost 10 pe cent
less to produce it.
The decree of the Circuit Court is
Affirmed.
The CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTI E GR.-Y did not hear the
argument and took no part in the decision of this case.

