CALDWELL v. TEXAS.
Statement of the Case.

CALDWELL v. TEXAS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF A.PPEALS OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 1541. Submitted May n, 1891.-Decided May 25, 1891.

There having been some irregularity in the submission of this case on the
15th of December, 1890, the court allows a resubmission, and an additional brief is filed at its request; and it now adheres to its former
decision, dismissing the writ for want of urisdiction. 137 U. S. 692.

THE

case, as stated by the court, was as follows

The writ of error in this case was dismissed January 12,
1891. Caldwell v. Texas, 137 U. S. 692. Plaintiff in error
applied for a rehearing upon the ground that no notice had
been given of the motion to dismiss. The record here showed
that a motion to advance and a motion to dismiss were submitted on December 15, 1890, and the order in relation to the
latter motion stated that it was submitted on the record and
printed arguments of counsel fcr both parties.
An extended printed argument on the merits had been previously filed on behalf of plaintiff in error, as well as 4-'
written consent of his counsel that the cause might be advanced, but from the affldavits' accompanying the application
for rehearing it appeared that through some inadvertence the
notice of the motion to dismiss had not in fact been given.
The court therefore, on the 9th of March, directed the judgment to be vacated and notice to be served, returnable on the
second Monday in April, the motion to be then considered
upon such additional printed briefs as might be presented.
This was accordingly done, but no further briefs were teW,
and on April 14 suggestion of illness of counsel was made,
and the time twice enlarged. On the 11th of May the case.
was taken on resubmission, awid a request, having been madthat the cause be continued to next term, or that other. consel be assigned to represent plaintiff in error, other cQunisel has
examined the record and filed an additional brief.
vOL. cx-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

1Jfr Augustus I Garland,at the request of the court, prepared and filed the following brief on behalf of the plaintiff
in error.
The question presented on this petition, as to notice to plaintiff in error of the motion to dismiss, is to be disposed of by
the facts of record in the cause, and I take it the court waives
that, as it is willing to receive argument as if that motion
were now pending, and of which plaintiff in error had due
notice.
Then upon the point of the jurisdiction of this court in
respect of a Federal question, it is to be said that while the
case of Hurtado v California,110 U. S. 516, and others go to
the extent that a State may by law provide for punishing persons charged, as Caldwell is here, without indictment, yet if
indictment is by the state law the prescribed method, there
must be a good indictment, such as is understood by the common law Such is unquestionably the doctrine of Ex parte
Baui, 121 U. S. 1 et seq. Although Bain's case was in the
United States court, yet this court, in passing upon the indictment, held this doctrine substantially as obtaining in the state
courts, the United States courts and the courts of England.
No question is raised here as to the power of the State to
dispense with indictment and take some other method in lieu
of it, but the question is, can the State, keeping the procedure
by indictment in existence, convict upon an indictment fundamentally defective 2
That this indictment is essentially defective, Mr. Burns, in
his brief, filed November 28, 1890, seems to show, and nothing
more need be said on that subject.
It must follow necessarily that, as a fundamental right to
Caldwell to have a good indictment, he is protected by the
Fourteenth Amendment as to "due process of law" The
authorities abundantly show that whatever process-indictment, information or what not -brings a man into court for
trial, it must be one giving him full notice of all the material
facts constituting the offence charged. There can be no "due
process of law" without this.

CALDWELL v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

The party "must be notified exactly of the case he is to
meet." Foster v. Kansas, 112 U. S. 201 et seq., 2 Hare Am.
Constitutional Law, 845-849, 858-863, 874, 876, and cases
cited.
It is nothing to the purpose to say, in response to this, the
State of Texas has ruled this to be a gooa indictment and that
it' suits her purposes. Some other authority, having an interest in this citizen, and. which has the right to his allegiance,
and therefore owing him protection, must also see that it is
good and sufficient. The State cannot by direction or indirection, keep this question from this court. It was in part to
prevent all this that brought 'forth the Fourteenth Amendment. This court, if the Fourteenth Amendment is not meaningless, must take this question and pass upon it, whether it
war raised in the court below or not, as it is a question going
to the very bottom of the proceeding, and affects it from the
beginning to the end, and this question is waived in no case,
and certainly never in one involving life.
,In Gepoke. v. Du ulque, 1 Wall. 175 et seq., it was attempted
to beg the question away from the court on just such grounds
as are urged here for the dismissal of 'this case, which were
answered in strong and impressive language thus "We shall
never immolate truth, justice and the law because a state tribunal has erected the altar and decreed the sacrifice," pp.,206,
207 words quite applicable herb and now
It is submitted, in view of the fact that Oaldwell's life is a
stake, and in view of the general importance of the question
involved, that his counsel should be-heard upon the merits.
Mi. CHmF JUsTicE FULLER delivered the opimon, (including
the above statement,) of the court.

We have again considered the. case but see no reason to
change the conclusion heretofore announced.
The writ of error will therefore be
.Dwmssed.

