L ADVILLE COAL CO. v. McCREERY.
Opinion of the Court.

The judgment of the court below will, therefore, be
Reversed, and the case remanded for furtherproceedingssr
conformity with ths optnwm.
M
M. JUSTICE BRADLEY and MR. JusTICE Gi.&Y were not
present at the argument, and took no part in the decision ofthis case.

LEADVILLE COAL COMPANY v. MoCREERY.
&PPEAL FROM THE

1RCourr COURT OF THE UWTD STATES FOR THU
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 969. Argued and submitted October 29, 1891. -Decded

November 9,1891.

When, in pursuance of the jurisdiction conferred by the laws of the United
States, a Circuit Court of the United States takes possession of the property of a defendant, situated within a State, and proceeds to final decree,
determining the rights of all parties to that property, its decree is not
superseded and its jurisdiction ended by reason of subsequent proceedings in the courts of the State looking to the administration of that property in accordance with the laws of the State.
A decree in such case, determining the claims of all creditors and their right
to share in the distribution of the property, is final as to all who had
notice and knowledge of the proceedings.
In this case there were no Irregularities in the proceedings which can be
challenged here.

IN EQUITY.
Mfr

The case is stated in the opinion.

enry Crawford, for appellants, submitted on his brif.

Mr Charles C. Baldwin, with whom was Mr Cecil D. Hin
on the brief, for appellees.

1MR.

JuSTICE BREWER

delivered the opilion of the court.

The facts in this case are these On February 21, 1883, a
suit was commenced in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Northern District of Ohio, by the Lake Superior Iron

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

Company and others against Brown, Bonnell & Company, a
corporation having large and extensive iron works. A receiver
was then appointed, who took possession of the property of
the company, and such proceedings were thereafter had that
in February, 1886, a decree was entered ascertaining the claims
of each creditor who had appeared and proved his claim, 176
in number, and directing a sale of the property From that
decree the defendant appealed to this court. On the hearing
of the appeal the decree was affirmed, Brown v Lake Superzor
Iron Co., 134 U. S. 530, and a mandate sent to the court below,
directing it to carry the decree into execution. An order of
sale was thereafter issued and the property sold, and purchased
by the present appellees, acting as trustees for all the creditors
who chose to enter into a proposed new corporation, and into
such corporation nearly all the creditors, over ninety-six per
cent in amount, entered. On the coming in of the report of
the master, a decree was entered confirming the sale, 44 Fed.
-Rep. 539, from which decree these appellants have taken this
appeal. Two of the appellants, the Leadville Coal Company
and Charles S. Worden, claimed to have been creditors of
Brown, Bonnell & Company, and the other two to have been
stockholders in that corporation.
The first contention of appellants is, that by proper proceedings in the Court of Common Pleas of Mahoning County, Ohio,
the corporation defendant, Brown, Bonnell & Company, had
been, on July 12, 1889, after the original decree in the Circuit
Court of the United States, and before the hearing of the
appeal by this court, judicially dissolved, and one HUallett K.
Taylor appointed receiver, and charged with the, statutory
duties of holding, managing and disposing of all the corporate assets, and distributing them among creditors; and that
thereafter the Circuit Court of the United States ought not to
have proceeded further, but should, have turned the property
over to such statutory receiver, in order that the property
might be distributed under the direction of the state court.
The argument is, that the judicial decree of dissolution of the
corporation, the sole defendant, was equivalent to the death of
an individual defendant and that all subsequent proceedings

LEADVILLE COAL CO. v. McCREERY.
Opinion of the Court.

in reference to the disposition of the property and assets of
this deceased defendant must be had according to the laws,
and in the courts, of the State creating the corporation.
It is worthy of notice that the case in which the decree of
dissolution was entered was not commenced till long after
this suit was begun and the receiver had taken possession of
the property that the receiver thus appointed by the state
court does not himself come into this court and ask possession
of this property, and also, that the state court in its decree of
dissolution, expressly recognized the possession of the United
States court, and in the following words declined to interfere
therewith "But inasmuch as it appears to the court that the
estate and effects of said Brown, Bonnell & Co. are at the
present time in the hands of a receiver appointed by and
acting under the orders of the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Ohio, it is ordered that the
receiver hereby appointed shall not interfere with the possession of the receiver appointed by said Federal court of the
effects and assets of said corporation." But we do not care to
rest our conclusion on these circumstances. The Circuit Court
takes its jurisdiction not from the State of Ohio, but from the
United States, and the extent of its jurisdiction is not determined by the laws of the State, but by those of the United
States. Doubtless, while sitting in the State as a court of the
United States, it accepts and gives effect to the laws of the
State so far as they do not affect its jurisdiction and the rights
of non-resideift creditors. It nevertheless exercises powers
independent of the laws of the State, and when, in pursuance
of the jurisdiction conferred by the laws of the United States,
it takes possession of the property of a defendant and proceeds to final decree, determining the rights of all parties to
that property, its decree is not superseded and its jurisdiction
ended by reason of subsequent proceedings in the courts of
the State, looking to an administration of that property in
accordance with the laws of the State. It would be an anomaly in legal proceedings if, after a court with full jurisdiction
over property in its possession has finally determined all rights
to that property, subsequent proceedings in a court of another

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of-the Court..

jurisdiction could annul such decree, and disturb all rights once
,lefinitely determined. No such anomaly exists in the relative
jurisdiction of state and Federal courts. The latter having
once acquired full jurisdiction, and proceeded to a final determination, may rightfully proceed still further and to an execution of that decree, irrespective of any proceedings in the
courts of the State. The first and principal contention of the
appellants must therefore be overruled.
Secondly It is insisted that the Circuit Court erred in refusing to allow a contest of the adjudication of the rights of
-creditors made in its final decree, on the subsequently filed
petition of these appellants; and also that it refused to allow
the claim of one of these appellants,. who now insists that he is
a creditor and entitled to share in the proceeds of the sale. In
the proceedings anterior to the final decree, it appears that
notice .was given to all creditors to prove their claims, and
that this particular creditor had notice of those proceedings,
but failed to make proof of his right. It is now insisted that
the decree in respect to these several claims was merely interlocutory, and that the matter is open to further and subsequent
inquiry There is no pretence of want of notice, or ignorance
-of the proceedings, and no excuse. given for failing to litigate
all these matters when before the court prior to the decree.
Under such circumstances we dissent entirely from the contention that this decree was, as to these matters, merely an
interlocutory order. That decree determined the rights of all
parties interested in the proceeds of this property, and if any
*one of these appellants, after notice, failed to assert his rights
or to challenge the allowances then made by the court, his
rights and challenge were lost. He has had his day in court,
and is concluded by the final decree.
The fihal contention is, that there were certain irregularities
in the sale, and those irregularities are sought to be established
principally by the affidavits of counsel for appellants, based
upon hearsay testimony So far as such affidavits rest on hear:ay testimony, it is enough to say that they prove nothing;
and in so far as they refer to other matters, it is also enough
to say that we see no substantial error in the proceedings of

DAVIS v. PATRICK.
Statement of the Case.

the sale. The defendant is not now contesting the sale, and
so far as any trifling matters are concerned, it does not lie in
the mouth of these alleged creditors and stockholders to challenge the regularity of the proceedings. Indeed, we cannot
fail to observe that the main scope and purpose of this appeal
seem to be to relitigate questions fully determined by the final
decree appealed from and affirmed.
We see no error in the record, and the decree of the Circuit
Court is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY and MR. JUsTIcE GRAY did not hear
the argument or take part in the decision of this case.

DA -IS v. PATRICK.
XRROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE Ur rTE

STATES FOR TEM

DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 984. Argued October 22, 23,1891.-Decided November 9, 1891.
In determining whether an alleged promise is or is not a promise to answer
for the debt of another, the following rules may be applied (1) if the
promissor is a stranger to the transaction, without interest in it, the
obligations of the statute are to be strictly upheld. (2) but if he has a
personal, immediate and pecuniary interest in a transaction in which a
thirqd party is the original obligor, the courts will give effect to the promise.
The real character of a promise does not depend altogether upon form of
expression, but largely upon the situation of the parties, and upon
whether they understood it to be a collateral or direct promise.
When, in an action to recover on a contract, testimony is admitted withQut
objection, showing the alleged contract to have been made, but on a dhy
different from that averred m the declaration, and the court directs'a
verdict for the defendant without amendment of the declaration, such
ruling is not erroneous by reason of the variation.

THE case was stated by the court as follows
This case was commenced on the 24th day of November,
1880, by the filing of a petition in the District Court of Knox
County, Nebraska.
Subsequently it was removed to the
Circuit Court of the United States, and at the May term, 1883,

