OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

CRAIG v. CONTINENTAL INSURANCE COMPANY
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF MfCHIGAN.
No. 88. Argued November 6, 9, 1891.-Decided November 23, 1891.

The provisions of § 4283 of the Revised Statutes relieving the owner of a
vessel from liability for a loss occasioned without his privity or knowledge, apply. to an insurance company to which, as insurer, a vessel has
been abandoned, and which was charged with negligence in causing the
vessel to be so towed that she sank and became a total loss, and the life
of an employ6 on board of her was lost.
The identity of the vessel was not lost, she being officered and manned and
having on board a cargo.
The provisions of § 4283 apply to cases of personal injury and death.
The extinguishment of liability may be availed of as matter of law, on the
facts, in a suit to recover for the death ofthe employ6.
The provisions of the statute apply to a vessel used on the Great Lakes, she
not being "used in rivers or inland navigation," within the meaning of
§ 4289.
The insurer being a corporation, the privity or knowledge of a person who
was alleged to have been guilty of the negligence, and who was not a
managing officer of the corporation, or employed directly by it, and
whose powers were no greater than those of the master of a vessel, was
not the privity or knowledge of the corporation.

THE court stated the case as follows

This is an action at law brought by Thomas Craig, administrator of the estate of John Carbry, deceased, against the
Continental Insurance Company of New York, a New York
insurance corporation, and three other insurance corporations,
to recover, under a statute of Michigan, (2 Howell's Annotated
Statutes pf Michigan, §§ 8313, 8314,) $25,000, as damages for
the death of Carbry, for the benefit of his mother and his
three minor sisters, as next of kin and distributees of his
estate, it being alleged that he lost his life through the negligence of the defendants, in December, 1883. It was commenced in the Superior Court of the city of Detroit, Michigan,
and was removed by the defendants into the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Eastern District of Michigan.

.AIG v. CONTINENTAL INSURANCE 00.
Statement of the Case.

The defendants were insurers against marine risks of a steam
propeller called the Enterprise. While on a voyage on the
Lakes, she was stranded, November 20, 1883, on rocks at
Green Island, in the northern part of Lake Huron. She had
on board a cargo of merchandise and a crew'of 10 or 12 men.
After the stranding, her owners abandoned her to the insurers,
and she became the property of the latter. The general agent
of the Continental Insurance Company for the *Lake region
was Mr. Dimock, of Buffalo, New York, who was also a
member of the firm of Crosby & Dimock, of that place, who
were general agents for several other companies. Tames J.
Reardon, of Buffalo, was employed by Crosby & Dimock as
a marine inspector. Among his other duties was that of going,
when notified, to the assistance of wrecked and stranded vessels
insured by companies represented by Crosby & Dimock, and
getting them to a port of safety On November 29, 1883,
Reardon was notified by Crosby & Dimock in regard to the
Enterprise, and went with a steam-tug called. the Balize, with
steam-pumps and engineers, to the assistance of the Enterprise.
One of the steam-pumps was in charge of Carbry Soon after
their arriving at the place where the Enterprise was, her crew
being still on board of her and in charge of her, the steampumps were set up, and she was pumped out and pulled off
from the place where she had stranded. This was done under
the supervision of Reardon. She was more or less injured by
the stranding, but when she was got off she was towed into
deep water, and, although she leaked, she was kept free by
the use of one pump for about 66 hours, from 10 o'clock
Thursday morning until 4 o'clock the following Sunday morning. Part of her cargo had been removed, but it was replaced.
Her machinery was disabled, and it was necessary that the
.Balize should take her in tow, to remove her to a port where
she could be repaired. She started in tow astern of the Balize,
bound for Detroit, at 4 o'clock on Sunday morning, December
9, 1883, with her cargo on board and a crew of 13 men, including 4 who were in charge of 2 steam-pumps, one of which was
under the care of Carbry Her mate was in command of her.
Reardon was on board of the Balize. No trouble was *ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

perienced in the navigation of the Enterprise, until 2 o'clock
on the morning of the next day, 22 hours after she had started,
and then, while off Point aux Barques and Saginaw Bay, she
filled and sank and became a total loss, and Carbry lost his
life. He was 22 years of age. The declaration alleged that
his life was lost through the negligence of the defendants, in
particulars which it specified.
The defendants having, in the state court, separately demanded a trial of the matters set forth in the declaration, the
action was, after its removal, tried in the Circuit Court of the
United States, before the district judge, Judge Brown, (now
of this court,) and a jury, and, under the instruction of .the
court, a verdict was rendered in favor of the three defendants
other than the Continental Insurance Company The trial
proceeded against the latter company, and resulted in a verdict
against it for $8000. On motion, and in February, 1886, the
verdict was set aside, and a new trial was granted. The
opinion of the court on the motion, delivered by Judge Brown,
is reported in 26 Fed. Rep. 798. The ground assigned for
granting the motion was that the liability of the defendant,
if any, was destroyed, because it was subject to the provisions
of § 4283 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, and
the Enterprise was totally lost during the voyage on which
the death occurred. A judgment was then entered in favor
of the three defendants other than the Continental Insurance
Company
The new trial was had before Judge Brown and a jury m
M arch, 1886. There is a bill of exceptions, which states that
the court instructed the jury to render a verdict in favor of
the defendant, which was done. The plaintiff excepted to the
instruction of the court. The bill of exceptions contains all
the evidence offered on both sides. A judgment in favor of
the defendant was rendered in September, 1887, and the plaintiff has brought the case to this court by a writ of error.
It is stated in the bill of exceptions that prior to the sendiug of the expedition under Reardon to rescue the Enterprise,
she had been abandoned by her owners to the Continental
Insurance Company, by which she was insured, and had

CRAIG

. CONTINENTAL INSURANTE CO.
Argument for

641

linamtiff m Error.

become its property, and that, by reason of her being sunk
at the time Oarbry lost his life, she became and was a total
loss.
Ir -Don -M. Dwokinson for plaintiff m error.
Does the limited liability act apply not only for the protection of the owners of a live ship in case of her wreck and loss,
but also after such wreck and loss of this same ship, for the
protection against liability of the underwriters, or any one else,
from acts of gross negligence when engaged as salvors of anything of value from wreck or cargo 2
If her captain and crew were justified in abandoning the
Enterprise (a question for the jury) as a total loss, and if with
the means at their command (a question for the jury) they
could not have restored her to life, then she lost her character
and identity as a ship, and became something else, as truly as
a man who dies becomes a corpse. NVo rights or liabilities pertaining to living men attach to a corpse, and none atfach to a
total wreck at sea, although there are entirely independent
bodies of law dealing with the treatment of dead men and the
treatment of wrecks.
If she was a total wreck ancq the limited liability act applies
to the case, then it would'also be applicable if the underwriters had towed Carbry out to sea upon any remnant of the
ship, or any piece of her, whether it be a hull without a
bottom, a bottom without the sides or a plank or two that
was under him. In the sense that the underwriters are owners
by subrogation, they are the owners of every piece of the
wreck, but we submit that they are not the owners m the
sense contemplated by this act.
"Ships and vessels" are defined by this court to be." all
nasgablestructures intended for transportation." Cope v Dry
-Dock Conpany, 119 U. S. 625, 629.
Capen v Wasksngton Insurance Conmpany, 12 Cush. 517, was
a case involving a question of implied warranty as to the condition of a vessel m marine insurance, taken when the vessel
was at sea. The court drew the distinction between a sound,
VOL. cxLI-41

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for, Plaintiff m Error.

serviceable ship, and one that has ceased to be a ship by becoming a wreck. It held that while in such a case there was
no implied warranty on the part of the insured, that the vessel
was seaworthy "in the ordinary sense of the term," either
when the policy was written or at the time when, by its terms,
the risk commpnced, yet there was an implied warranty that
the vessel was in existence as a vessel, not lost at the time
fixed for the commencement of the risk. It said If she is at
sea, when she has sailed in a seaworthy condition, and is safe,
(salvus, not lost,) so as to be a proper subject for a contract of
insurance at the time the risk attaches, and if the vessel is in
such condition, and the implied warranty to this extent is not
But if
broken, the policy attaches and is not void.
the vessel was then lost, become a wreck or had ceased to ewst
as a vessel, or was, if at sea, in a condition or under circumstances in which she could not on her arrival in port be made
available by reasonable or suitable repairs and fitting for navigation, tjhen there was no subject for the policy to take effect
upon, and the contract would be void.
In Gardnerv Salvado, 1 Mood. & Rob. 116, 111, the court
in discussing the question of whether the ship's character was
changed by wreck, says "If the situation of the ship be such
that by no means within the master's reach it can be treated
so as to retain the character of a ship, then it is a total loss.
If the captain, by means within his reach, can make an experiment to save it, with a fair hope of restoring it to the character of a ship,.he cannot by selling it turn it into a total loss.
If she be in a situation such that, by means which the captain
could reasonably use she could not be brought to retain the
character of a ship, it is a total loss."
In the case of The lendtck Eudson, 3 Ben. 419, 421, the
court discusses the loss of character of a ship in connection
with the question of salvage.
The Hendrick Hudson had been a ship, was capable of
floating and being towed, but had been converted into a sort
The court (Blatchford, Justice) says:
of floating saloon.
"The fact that the structure has the shape of a vessel, or had
been once used as a vessel, or could, by proper appliances, be

C .AIG v. CONTI1WEXTAL IN SURAINCE CO.

6S4

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

4gain used as such, cannot affect the question. The test is
the actual status of the structure, as being fairly engaged ii
commerce or navigation."
The status as a ship having rights and liabilities under the
law as such may thus be lost by misfortune, as by wreck, or
by the voluntary act of the owners. A ship which has become
"derelict" by wreckmg (and a ship may become derelict by
simple abandonment at sea- Judge .Story in, Rowe v Brii
-,
1 Mlason, 372, 373) is one "where there has been an
abandonment by officers and crew, without hope of recovery"
T7k Aquila, 1 Ch. Rob. 32, 37.
In such a case, if the underwriters had not, as in this case,
become the salvors, the right of other salvors might have
attached.
Are the negligences of any one in and about the retrieving
of value from a wreck to be brought within any law relating
distinctly and in terms to a "ship" or "vessel" 2
Undoubtedly the test as to the wrecked ship must be
whether she is capable of navigation by the use of means at
hand, if she is not she has lost her character as a ship. And
this question is one for the jury, as held in the two cases first
above cited. As a matter of fact the evidence was conclusive
upon this point. The Enterprise had pounded through many
gales, upon the rocks, and had begun to break up so that she
perceptibly showed different and independent movements of
her bow and stern, of her mast and smokestack, her machinery for steaming was broken up, and she could not navigate
or float either by her own means or in tow, as when towed
through quiet water, she went to the bottom.
The limited liability act above quoted, stands unaffected for
the purposes of this case, by the amendment of June 26, 1881,
(23 Stat. 57, c. 121, § 18,) and by the act approved June 19,
1886, extending the provisions of the act to all vessels used
on lakes or rivers for inland navigation, etc. 24 Stat. 80,
c. 421, § 4.
There is no provision of the act which can be construed as
extending the provisions of the limitation so as to include
underwriters engaged in salvage.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

Section 4286, Revised Statutes, extends the meamng of
owners, as used in the act, so as to include "the charterer of
any vessel, who shall man, victual and navigate such vessel at
his own expense or procurement."

We submit therefore.
First,That the limited liability act cannot be construed to
cover the case of underwriters engaged in saving wreckage,
and,
Second, That it would have-no application for the benefit of
the original owners themselves, except for their protection
from liability incurred for the cause -of, or m and about the
original wrecking, not for any common law liability incurred
while eigaged about recovering wreckage after the wreck is
an accomplished fact, the character as a ship finally lost, and
the vessel entirely and properly abandoned by the officers and
crew
_Mr F H. Canfwld for defendant m error.
Mm. JusTin BLATCHrOnD, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion oif the court.

The principal contention on the part of the plaintiff is that

§ 4283 of the Revised Statutes does not apply to the case.
That section is as follows "Sec. 1283- The liability of the
owner of any vessel, for any embezzlement, loss or destruction,
by any person, of any property, goods or merchandise, shipped
or put on board of such vessel, or for any loss, damage or
injury by collision, or for any act, matter or thing, lost [loss 2],
damage or forfeiture, done, occasioned or incurred, without
the privity or knowledge of such owner or owners, shall m no
case exceed the amount or value of the interest of such owner
in such vessel, and her freight then pending." It is contended
that the statute does not apply, because the vessel had been
wrecked and abandoned to the underwriters, that they cannot
be relieved under the statute from their liability for negligence
while engaged in saving the wreck or the-cargo, and that she
had lost her identity as a vessel.

CR AIG v. CONTINENTAL INSURANCE CO.

645

Opinion of the Court.

But we are of opinion that her identity was not lost. She
was still a vessel. She had lost her own power of locomotion,
but she was capable of being towed as a vessel, and was so
towed for 22 hours, and until she had accomplished a large
portion of her voyage. She was officered and manned, and
had on board a cargo. If, during the 22 hours, through the
negligence of those on board of her and in charge of her, she
had done damage by coming into collision with another vessel
and survived, she could have been libelled as a vessel, and
she could have been libelled for salvage. She was in the same
condition as any vessel which at sea loses her means of propulsion and has to be towed into port.
The fact that, as between her former ownef and the insurance company, she had been abandoned as a total loss, does
not affect the question. She was abandoned as a total loss to
her owner for the purposes of the policy of insurance, but, as
in numerous other cases of abandonment, she was abandoned
with the privilege to the insurance company of treating her
as a vessel and repairing her if it could. Her ownership by
the insurance company, resulting from the abandonment, was
of the same character as would have been her ownership by
any person who had purchased her in her then condition from
the former owner. After her abandonment, she entered upon
a new career and a new voyage, and § 4283 applies to the
liability of the owner of her on such voyage, for damages for
the death of Carbry
It was held by this court, in Butler v. Boston & SavannaA
Steamship Co., 130 U. S. 527, that the provision of § 4283
applies to cases of personal injury and death, as well as to
cases of loss of, or injury to, property Whatever liability
there was on the part of the defendant, was extinguished by
the loss of the Enterprise, and the extingmshment of such
liability may be availed of in this suit, as matter of law, on
the facts of the case. The Scotland,105 U. S. 24, Proidence
N Y Steamship Co. v. Hill .fg. Co., 109 U. S. 578, 594.
The restriction of the statute by § 4289 to vessels not "used
in rivers or inland navigation," does not apply to the Enterprise, because she was used on the Great Lakes. Amercan

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

Trans. Co. v. -Moore, 5 Michigan, 368, Al ore v. Amerwan
Trans. Co., 24 How 1.
The only question remaining is as to whether the loss of
Carbry's life occurred with the privity or knowledge of the
insurance company, it being contended that the knowledge
a-d privity ofjReardon were those of the company But it
was held by this court, in Walker v. Transportation Company,
3 Wall. 150, in regard to the statute (Act of March 3, 1851,
§ 1, 9 Stat. 635, now § 4282 of the Revised Statutes) which provides as follows "No owner of any vessel shall be liable to
answer for or make good to any person any loss or damage
which may happen to any merchandise whatsoever, which
shall be shipped, taken in or put on board any such vessel, by
reason or by means of any fire happening to or on board
the vessel, unless such fire is caused by the design or neglect
of such owner;" that, in order to make the owner of a
vessel, in case of loss by fire, liable for negligence, it must
appear that the owner had directly participated in the negligence. It was there said, that, as the object of the act was
"to limit the liability of owners of vessels," and the exception was not, in terms, of negligence generally, but only of
negligence of the owners, it would be a wrong construction
of the act to hold that the exception extended "to the officers
and crews of the vessels, as representing the owners," that
§ 6 of the act (now § 4287 of the IRevised Statutes) showed
that itwas the purpose of the preceding sections to release
the owner from some liability for the negligence and fraud of
the master and other agents of the owner, for which those
persons were themselves liable and were to remain so; and
that, in reference to fires occurring on the vessels to which the
statute applied, the owner was "not liable for the misconduct
of the officers and mariners of the vessel, in which he does
not participate personally" The same rule is applicable to
the words "privity or knowledge" in § 4283.
When the owner is a corporation, the privity or knowledge
must be that of the managing officers of the corporation. In
i0i -fanufaturzng Co. v. Povudenee & Few York Steamshp Co., 113 Mass. 495, 499, 500, it was said that the obiect

CRAIG v. CONTINENTAL INSURANCE 00.

64'7

Opunon of the Court.

of the statute was to exempt the owners of ships from the
onerous liability to which they were held by the common law
as common carriers or otherwise, for the acts or neglect of
their servants or agents, or of third persons, without their own
knowledge or concurrence, not to diminish their responsibility
for their own wilful or negligent acts, and it was added "If
a loss by fire is caused either by the design or by the neglect
of the owners of a ship, the first section of the statute does
not limit or take away their common lawliability If the
owners are a corporation, the president and directors are not
merely the agents or servants, but the representatives of the
corporation, and the acts, intentions and neglects of such
officers are those of the corporation itself."
The corporation, in the present case, was protected by the
statute from loss or damage arising from the fault or negligence of the mate or any of the crew or other employes who
were on board of the Enterprise, and a fortiao it was protected from loss or damage arising from the fault or negligence
of Reardon. The only negligence alleged m the case is that
of Reardon, in attempting to tow the Enterprise, in the condition in which she was, to Detroit. But he was not an officer
of the corporation, or employed directly by it, but was employed by Dimock, or Crosby & Dimock, the agents at Buffalo.
He was at most a mere employe of the corporation. He was
not its general agent, nor, so far as appears, had it any knowledge of his appointment. If he was an agent at all, his powers,
were no greater than those of the master of a vessel, for whose
negligence the owner is not liable, even though the privity or
knowledge. of the master exists. The knowledge of Reardon
was not the private knowledge of the corporation.
It is unnecessary to consider any of the other questions
discussed" at the bar, and the judgment is

