OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

cate of the circuit clerk in such manner that we cannot shut our.
eyes to it, it is obvious that the amount in controversy is not
sufficient to give us jurisdiction. Under the circumstances it
would be sacrificing substance to form, and assuming a jurisdiction which we do not have, to hold that because this testimony did not get before the trial court in time for its primary
action it must be wholly ignored by us. It reaches us beforewe are called upon to act, and comes to us from that court.
We hold that, under all the showing that is presented, the.
amount in controversy is not sufficient to give us jurisdiction,
and, therefore, the appeal must be and is
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY and MR. JUSTICE GRAY did not hear.
the argument or take part m the decision of this case.

:PATENT CLOTHING COMPANY, LIMITED,
,v. GLOVER.
APPEAL FROM TE

CIRCUIT COURT OF TEE UNITED STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 52. Argued October'27, 1891.-Decided November 16, 1891

Reissued letters patent No. 9616, granted to Rodmond Gibbons March 22,
1881, on the surrender of letters patent No. 178,287, for an improvement
:in pantaloons, are void for want of patentable novelty in the invention
claimed in it.

IN EQUrY, for the infrngemeit of letters patent.
is stated m the opinion.

The ease

-Hr Cau3ten Br9owne for appellant.
-Mbr Gilbert -ff.Plyympton for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of theUnited States for the Southern District of New York, dismiss-

PATENT CLOTHING CO. v. GLOVER.
Opinion of the Court.

ing the appellant's bill. The suit was for the infringement of
a patent. Rodmond Gibbons was the patentee. His original
patent was dated June 6, 187.6, jNoi 178,287. This -was surrendered, and a reissue obtained. on March 22, 1881, being
reissue No. 9616. Gibbons assigned to the appellant. Suit
was commenced by.the filing of a bill, on June 18, 1884. The
answer tendered several defences, among them, that the reissue
was void by reason of laches in applying for it, the application not being made until nearly five years after the date of
the patent, because it was broader than the original patent,
and including in it matters not claimed or described therein,
that the patent was void for lack of invention and patentable
novelty, and also non-infringement. The patent was for an
improvement in pantaloons, and the specification in the original patent was in these words
"My invention relates to a fastening for the crotch in the
fly of pantaloons or similar garments, and it consists in bridging said crotch with a check-piecE of cloth or other 'nelastic
pliable material, as hereinafter fully described.
"The object of this invention is to prevent that tension at
the crotch ordinarily produced either by continued use of* the
garment, or by any undue strain caused by the assumption by
the wearer of any posture of the body, or by the removal of
-the garment, calculated to produce subh an effect."
And the single claim was: "In combination with the fly of
pantaloons or similar garments, an inelastic bridge or checkpiece, arranged across the crotch thereof, substantially as
described, whereby the strain at the crotch, when the fly is
opened and spread apart, is received by said bridge or checkpiece, instead of at the angle of the crotch itself."
The specification in the reissue reads: "M y invention relates
to means for strengthening the crotch in the fly of pantaloons,
and has for its object to prevent that tension at the crotch of
the fly which is ordinarily produced, either by continued use
of the garment or by some undue strain upon the latter,
caused by the assumption of some posture by the person wearing it or by some mode of removal of the garment from the
body calculated to produce such an effect, and which tension
VOL. CX.1L36

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

'frequently operates to rupture either the cloth or the seams, or
both, at the vicinity of the said crotch.
"To this end my invention consists in the use, in connection
with the fly, of a check-piece or strip of cloth or other inelastic
pliable material, arranged to bridge over and protect from tensional strain the crotch of said fly, as will be hereinafter more
fully described," and these were the claims
"1. The combination, with the fly of a pair of pantaloons
or other similar garment, of an inelastic bridge or check-piece
arranged across the crotch of the fly, and operating substantially as described, to receive any strain occasioned by the
spreading apart of the fly, and which would otherwise be
exerted upon the crotch of the fly
"2. In combination with the fly portion of a pair of pantaloons or other similar garment, a check-piece made integral
with the button-hole strip of the fly, and adapted to prevent
any tension at the.crotch that might operate injuriously upon
it."
On proofs, the case went to final hearing before Judge
Shipman, who, on the 14th of May, 1887, filed an opinion
adverse to the appellant, and directed a dismissal of the bill.
On a rehearing, a further opinion was delivered, the two opin,
ions being found in 31 Federal Reporter, pages 816 and 818,
and on August 4, 1887, the decree was entered, which, after
reciting the hearing and rehearing, reads "Now, upon due
consideration of the same, and the court being of opinion that
the second claim of reissued patent No. 9616, granted to Rodmond Gibbons on the 22d day of March, 1881, is invalid, unless
it is limited to the bridge or check-piece of the original claim,
and with that construction there is no infringement It is
ordered, adjudged, and d~creed that the bill of complaint in
said cause be, and the same hereby is, dismissed," etc.
It will be seen from this decree, and more fully from the
opinions, that the conclusion of the trial judge was that the
second claim of the reissue was an enlargement of the single
claim of the original j atent, and therefore invalid, or if not
and it could be propgrly construed as describing the same
thing, that that which was done by the defendant was no in-

PATENT CLOTHNG CO. v. GLOVER.
Opimon of the Court.

fringement. It i§ unnecessary to review these opinions or
determine whether there be, as the court found, any such yriation and enlargement. There is a more grievous and radical
efect in the appellant's case. There is not in the matter
escribed and exhibited in any of the specifications or claims
any invention within the meaning of that word as developed
in recent decisions of this court, Hollister v. Benedict & Burnham an'f'g Co., 113 U. S. 59, Thompson v. Bowsselier, 114
U. S. 1, 11, Eowe iMfackine Co. v. .2YatzonaZ Needle Co., 134
U. S. 388, .XoOZk
a?.n v Ortmayer, ante, 419; and for that
reason both patents, original and reissue, were void.
What is it that the patentee claims to have invented? Formerly the button and button-hole strips in the fly of pantaloons
were separate pieces: whose lower ends being placed face to
face were sewed together, and thus formed the crotch. Of
course, then, any strain at the crotch was resisted by only the
direct strength of the thread. The idea of the patentee was
to add to the strength of the thread the strength of a piece of
cloth, and this he did by a strip crossing the crotch as a bridge,
and running up along the button and button-hole strips and
fastened to them respectively The strain, therefore, at this
place would be resisted both by the thread and this strip of
cloth, or inelastic bridge, as the patentee called it. A similar
result was obtained when either one of these strips, the button
or button-hole, was made longer than the other, and the longer
one,. instead of running downward into the crotch, was turned
at that place and used as a bridge across it, and then ran up
along the side of the other strip and was fastened to it. By
either of these processes the tension was placed largely upon
the strip of cloth, instead of solely upon the. thread. But this
was no new idea, it is as old as pantaloons themselves. It has
been illustrated in the experience of every boy, for in his sports
he not infrequently tears his pantaloons, and his good mother,
not content with sewing the torn ends together, and thus holding them by the direct strength of the thread, is wont to place
underneath a piece of cloth, and fasten it to the main body of
the garment for some distance on either side of the tear: In
this way the whole strain, which otherwise would be solely

OCTOBER TERMI, 1891.
Syllabus.

on the threads closing the tear, is largely borne by the new
cloth underneath' Surely when this idea is so well known, and
has been so practically illustrated for generations, it cannot be
that there was any exercise of the skill of an inventor in applying the same process to any part of the pantaloons. If it be
said that the strengthening of the stay-piece here applied is not
to the closing of a tear, but to a seam at an angle, it may be
replied that such particular form of reinforcement is itself no
new thing. An illustration is in the seam at the angle made
by the fingers and thumb of gloves. As to that, it appears
from the testimony that the practice was old of reinforcing
the seam by an overlapping piece. Other illustrations are
also furnished by the testimony, but it is hardly necessary to
refer to these in detail. The matter is familiar to the knowledge of all, and surely the application of this reinforcing strip
of cloth to any seam, or in any place where without it the
tension would be solely on the threads, cannot be an exercise
of the skill of an inventor.
We think, therefore, that the patent sued on was void for
want of patentable novelty, and affirm the decree.
MR. JusTIcE BRADLEY

and MR. JusTICE GRAY did not hear

the argument or take part in the decision of this case.

FIRE INSURANCE ASSOCIATION, LIMITED v.
WICKHAM.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
No. 59. Argued October 28, 191. - Decided November 16, 1891.

Parol testimony is admissible to show the circumstances under which a
written instrument was executed, or that it was, in fact, without consideration.
Where the facts clearly show that a certain sum is due from one person to
another, a release of the entire sum upon payment of part is without

