OPINION OF INDIVIDUAL JUSTICE
IN CHAMBERS

WESTERN AIRLINES, INC., ET AL. V. INTER-

NATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF
TEAMSTERS ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-716.

Decided April 2, 1987

An application to stay the Court of Appeals' order-which, inter alia,
enjoined the merger of applicants Delta Air Lines and Western Airlines -is granted pending the timely filing and subsequent disposition of
a petition for certiorari. Respondent unions, which represented various
of Western's employees, filed suits in the District Court, alleging
that Western had violated the successorship provisions of the relevant
collective-bargaining agreements by failing to secure Delta's agreement
to be bound by the agreements, and seeking an order compelling System
Board of Adjustment arbitration of the dispute as a "minor" dispute
under the Railway Labor Act (RLA). Treating the dispute instead as a
"representation" dispute subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the National Mediation Board under the RLA, the District Court dismissed the
complaints for lack of subject matter jurisdiction. However, little more
than 12 hours before the merger was scheduled to take place, the Court
of Appeals issued its order reversing the District Court's decisions, requiring the entry of orders compelling arbitration, and enjoining the
merger pending completion of arbitration or until applicants filed with
the Court of Appeals a stipulation that the result of the arbitration, subject to appropriate judicial review and all valid defenses, would bind the
successor corporation. The timing and substance of the order under the
exigencies of this case make compliance with this Court's Rule 44.4 both
virtually impossible and legally futile, and this situation presents one of
those rare, extraordinary circumstances in which the Rule does not require a request for a stay before the Court of Appeals. Moreover, the
order is not divested of its finality within the meaning of 28 U. S. C.
§ 2101(f) by its provision lifting the injunction upon the filing of the required stipulations, which, to have any significance, must bind applicants
to a concession of their position on the only question before the Court of
1301

OCTOBER TERM, 1986
Opinion in Chambers
Appeals.

480 U. S.

The application for a stay is granted because (1) the reasoning

of every other Court of Appeals that has ruled on that issue casts grave
doubt on the validity of the Ninth Circuit's action in this case; (2) it is
therefore very likely that at least four Justices would vote to grant certiorari, and that applicants are likely to prevail on the merits; and (3) the
balance of the equities clearly weighs in applicants' favor, since the cost
of enjoining this huge and complicated merger only hours before its long
awaited consummation is staggering in its magnitude, since respondents
had no entitlement to the concession required by the stipulation, since
preservation of respondents' claims could have been accomplished equitably by a speedier resolution of the jurisdictional issue, and since the
employees themselves are protected by Delta's assumption of other labor
protection provisions.
JUSTICE O'CONNOR,

Circuit Justice.

Applicants request that I issue a stay pending the filing
and disposition of a petition for certiorari to review the judgment of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit.
The underlying dispute in this case involves the division of
responsibility for regulation of collective bargaining between
airlines and their employees under the Railway Labor Act,
44 Stat. 577, as amended, 45 U. S. C. § 151 et seq. The Act
defines three classes of labor disputes and establishes a different dispute resolution procedure for each. "Minor" disputes involve the application or interpretation of an existing
collective-bargaining agreement. Minor disputes are subject to arbitration by a System Board of Adjustment. 45
U. S. C. § 184. While courts lack authority to interpret the
terms of a collective-bargaining agreement, a court may compel arbitration of a minor dispute before the authorized System Board.
"Major" disputes involve the formation of collectivebargaining agreements, and the resolution of such disputes is
governed by § 6 of the Act, 45 U. S. C. §§ 156, 181.
"Representation" disputes involve defining the bargaining
unit and determining the employee representative for collective bargaining. Under § 2, Ninth, of the Act, the National

WESTERN AIRLINES INC. v. TEAMSTERS
1301

1303

Opinion in Chambers

Mediation Board has exclusive jurisdiction over representation disputes. 45 U. S. C. §§ 152, 181.
Applicants, Western Airlines and Delta Air Lines, entered
into an agreement and plan of merger on September 9, 1986.
The merger agreement was approved by the United States
Department of Transportation on December 11, 1986. On
December 16, 1986, shareholder approval of the merger was
conferred and Western Airlines became a wholly owned subsidiary of Delta. On the morning of April 1, 1987, the
merger of Western Airlines with Delta was scheduled to be
completed. See infra, at 1308.
Respondents represented various crafts or classes of employees of Western Airlines. The Air Transport Employees
(ATE) was designated by the National Mediation Board as
the bargaining representative for a unit of Western employees consisting of clerical, office, fleet, and passenger service
employees. The International Brotherhood of Teamsters
Local 2707 was the certified representative of three crafts
or classes employed by Western: mechanics and related employees, stock clerks, and flight instructors. Each union's
collective-bargaining agreement has a provision stating that
the agreement shall be binding upon successors of the
company.
Delta has substantially more employees than Western in
the crafts or classes represented by the unions, and these
Delta employees had no bargaining representative. Respondents filed grievances alleging that Western violated the
successorship provisions of the two collective-bargaining
agreements by failing to secure Delta's agreement to be
bound by the collective-bargaining agreements between
Western and respondent unions. Western refused to arbitrate the grievances, asserting that they necessarily involved
representation issues and therefore were within the exclusive jurisdiction of the National Mediation Board.
The unions filed separate complaints in the District Court
for the Central District of California, each requesting the

1304

OCTOBER TERM, 1986
Opinion in Chambers

480 U. S.

District Court to treat the successor clause dispute as a
minor dispute, and compel arbitration of the dispute by
the System Adjustment Board. Both complaints were dismissed for lack of subject matter jurisdiction.
On March 17, 1987, the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit entered an interim order directing arbitration of the
grievances to proceed before the unions' respective System
Adjustment Boards pending appeal.
At approximately 8 p.m., eastern time, March 31-little
more than 12 hours before the merger was scheduled to take
place-the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit issued the
following order:
"1. The judgments of the district court dismissing
the unions' actions are reversed and the causes are
remanded with instructions to enter orders compelling
arbitration.
"2. Western's motion for reconsideration of our order
compelling arbitration pending appeal is denied.
"3. The contemplated merger of Western Air Lines
and Delta Air Lines is enjoined pending completion of
arbitration proceedings or until Western and Delta file
with the Clerk of this Court a stipulation that the result
of the arbitration, subject to appropriate judicial review
and all valid defenses, will bind the successor corporation. Upon filing of such stipulation and approval by the
court, the injunction of the merger shall terminate.
"It is so ordered. A written opinion will be filed as
soon as practicable." Application Exh. A.
The timing and substance of the Court of Appeal's order
under the exigencies of this case made compliance with Rule
44.4 of this Court, requiring that a motion for a stay first
be filed with the court below, both virtually impossible and
legally futile. I conclude that this situation presents one of
those rare, extraordinary circumstances in which request for

WESTERN AIRLINES INC. v. TEAMSTERS
1301

1305

Opinion in Chambers

a stay before the Court of Appeals is not required under the
Rule.
I also conclude that the judgment of the Court of Appeals,
reversing the District Court decisions, requiring the entry of
orders compelling arbitration, and enjoining the merger, is
final within the meaning of 28 U. S. C. §2101(f). The Court
of Appeals' provision for lifting the injunction upon certain
stipulations of applicants does not divest the judgment of
finality when, as in this case, the required stipulations, to
have any significance, must bind applicants to a concession
of their position on the only question before the Court of
Appeals: whether the successor clause dispute is within the
jurisdiction of the. System Adjustment Board or the National
Mediation Board.
Moreover, regardless of the finality of the judgment below,
"a Circuit Justice has jurisdiction to vacate a stay where it
appears that the rights of the parties to a case pending in the
court of appeals, which case could and very likely would be
reviewed here upon final disposition in the court of appeals,
may be seriously and irreparably injured by the stay, and the
Circuit Justice is of the opinion that the court of appeals is
demonstrably wrong in its application of accepted standards
in deciding to issue the stay." Coleman v. Paccar,Inc., 424
U. S. 1301, 1304 (1976) (REHNQUIST, J., in chambers).
The reasoning of every other Court of Appeals that has
ruled on the issue raised before the Ninth Circuit casts grave
doubt on the validity of the Ninth Circuit's action in this case.
The great weight of the case law supports the proposition
that disputes as to the effect of collective-bargaining agreements on representation in an airline merger situation are
representation disputes within the exclusive jurisdiction of
the National Mediation Board. In International Brotherhood of Teamsters v. Texas Int'l Airlines, Inc., 717 F. 2d
157 (1983), the Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit
held that "[t]he [Railway Labor] Act commits disputes involving a determination of who is to represent airline employ-

1306

OCTOBER TERM, 1986
Opinion in Chambers

480 U. S.

ees in collective bargaining to the exclusive jurisdiction of the
National Mediation Board." The Fifth Circuit stated that
"[a] court may not entertain an action involving such a dispute even if it arises in the context of otherwise justiciable
claims .... Moreover, a court may not grant injunctive re-

lief maintaining the status quo if the underlying dispute
is representational in nature, because to do so would necessarily have the effect, at least during the period of the injunction, of deciding the representation issue." Id., at 161.
"Given the Mediation Board's undeniable sole jurisdiction
over representation matters," and the practical problems of
divided jurisdiction among the other dispute-resolution fora,
the Fifth Circuit inferred "a congressional intention to allow
that agency alone to consider the post-merger problems that
arise from existing collective bargaining agreements." Id.,
at 164. The Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit
treated the question of National Mediation Board jurisdiction
over alleged collective-bargaining violations implicating postmerger representation as one settled by "'the overwhelming
and well-developed case law,"' and found "no reason to depart from the consistent and well-considered analysis of our
colleagues in other circuits." Air Line Employees v. Republic Airlines, Inc., 798 F. 2d 967, 968 (quoting Order
No. 86C5239 (ND Ill. July 28, 1986)), cert. denied, 479 U. S.
962 (1986). See also Air Line Pilots Assn. Int'l v. Texas
Int'l Airlines, Inc., 656 F. 2d 16 (CA2 1981); International
Assn. of Machinists v. Northeast Airlines, Inc., 536 F. 2d
975, 977 (CA1), cert. denied, 429 U. S.961 (1976); Brotherhood of Railway & S. S. Clerks v. United Air Lines, Inc.,
325 F. 2d 576 (CA6 1963), cert. dism'd, 379 U. S.26 (1964).
It was upon this overwhelming body of case law that the District Court for the District of Columbia relied when it considered the complaint of the Association of Flight Attendants
(AFA), also arising from the Western-Delta merger. AFA's
complaint, seeking an order compelling Western to submit to
arbitration by the System Board of Adjustment and enjoining

WESTERN AIRLINES INC. v. TEAMSTERS
1301

1307

Opinion in Chambers

the merger pending completion of proceedings before the
System Board, was dismissed. Association of Flight Attendants, AFL-CIO v. Western Airlines, Inc., No. 87-0040
(Feb. 20, 1987). On March 31, 1987, the Court of Appeals
for the District of Columbia Circuit denied AFA's motions
to compel arbitration pending appeal, and its motion for
expedited appeal and decision before April 1. Association
of Flight Attendants, AFL-CIO v. Western Airlines, Inc.,
No. 87-7040. The Ninth Circuit's divergence from this line
of Court of Appeals decisions leads me to find it very likely
that at least four Justices would vote to grant certiorari, and
that the applicant is likely to prevail on the merits.
To appreciate the balance of the equities created by the
Ninth Circuit's order, one must focus on the stipulation
clause of that order. What was to be gained or lost by the
applicants and respondents in this case was not the merger of
Western and Delta Airlines alone but the substance of the
stipulation on which that merger was conditioned by the
Ninth Circuit.
The stipulation which the Ninth Circuit required from
Western and Delta Airlines is subject to two interpretations.
The first is a requirement that Delta and Western agree that
if, after full judicial review of the jurisdictional as well as
other issues raised, it is determined that the claims presented by respondents fall under the jurisdiction of the System Adjustment Boards, the successor corporation will be
bound by the result of the completed arbitration process.
Under this interpretation of the stipulation, the successor
corporation was required to do no more than adhere to the
obligations placed upon it by law, as those obligations are
determined in the litigation. Those legal obligations, of
course, would exist independent of any stipulation. If the
stipulation would leave the applicants free to assert any of
their arguments against the jurisdiction of the System Adjustment Boards, the applicants would have remained in the

1308

OCTOBER TERM, 1986
Opinion in Chambers

480 U. S.

same position after the stipulation as they were before, and
the stipulation would have served no purpose.
The other interpretation of the clause is that, in order to
avoid an eleventh hour injunction of the merger, Delta and
Western were required to stipulate as to the correctness of
respondents' argument that this dispute did in fact fall under
the jurisdiction of the System Adjustment Boards. As to
the balance of equities on this interpretation of the Ninth
Circuit's order, they clearly weigh in favor of the applicants.
The potential harm that would be suffered by the applicants
as a result of the Court of Appeals' injunction of their merger
is seriously aggravated by the fact that the order issued on
the very eve of the merger's consummation. For several
months, the applicants have been planning to combine their
large-scale, complex, interrelated, and heavily regulated operations effective April 1, 1987. That planning included
the transfer, modification, and cancellation of hundreds of
Western's contracts for supplies and services and equipment
leases. The approval of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) of changes in Western's operating certificates,
specifications, and training programs have been sought and
received. Maintenance schedules, flight schedules, and staffing schedules have been modified in order to effect a smooth
transition to a merged operation on April 1. Large numbers of Western management personnel, without whom it
cannot operate as an independent entity, are to be severed
effective April 1; many have presumably arranged for new
employment. Delta has negotiated for transfer of Western's
Mexican and Canadian routes with the respective governments of those countries. It is doubtful that these arrangements can be undone if the merger does not take place as
anticipated.
Because of the operational adjustments that are already
in place, the FAA has expressed doubt whether Western
will be permitted to continue operations should the merger
not take place, potentially stranding thousands of travelers.

WESTERN AIRLINES INC. v. TEAMSTERS
1301

1309

Opinion in Chambers

Employees, expecting to be transferred to new locations
after April 1, have sold old homes and bought or leased new
ones. Changes in pay, working conditions, and conditions
of employment all have been planned for and relied upon in
anticipation of the merger. Millions of dollars of advertising
have been targeted toward the April 1, 1987, merger date.
And the list of consequences goes on. See Application, Affidavit of Hollis Harris and Exhibit 1 thereof; Affidavit of
Robert Oppenlander; Affidavit of Russell H. Heil; Affidavit
of Whitley Hawkins; Affidavit of C. Julian May; Affidavit of
Jason R. Archambeau. The cost of enjoining this huge undertaking only hours before its long awaited consummation is
simply staggering in its magnitude, in the number of lives
touched and dollars lost. To assume that enjoining of the
merger would do no more than preserve the "status quo," in
the face of this upheaval, would be to blink at reality. Under
the second interpretation of the stipulation clause-the only
interpretation under which the required stipulations would
have had meaning-applicants could prevent these losses
only by conceding their argument, supported by the great
weight of authority, that their dispute with respondents
fell under the jurisdiction of the National Mediation Board.
On the other side, respondents had no entitlement to such
a concession, obtained under these circumstances, from parties that had otherwise indicated their intent to continue to
assert the contrary position on the jurisdictional issue. Before the Court of Appeals the unions argued that completion
of the merger would moot their claims under the collectivebargaining agreement to System Board arbitration. For the
reasons stated above, I doubt that respondents' claims would
ultimately prevail. Moreover, preservation of respondents'
claims could have been accomplished equitably by a speedier
resolution of the jurisdictional issue, rather than by the inequitable last-minute foisting of a Hobson's choice on the applicants. Finally, the employees themselves are protected by
Delta's assumption of the Allegheny-Mohawk Labor Protec-

OCTOBER TERM, 1986
Opinion in Chambers

480 U. S.

tive Provisions, requiring the continuation of certain fringe
benefits, displacement and dismissal allowances for up to four
to five years for employees who lose their jobs or get lesser
paying jobs, moving and related costs for employees required
to move, integration of seniority lists, and binding arbitration
of any dispute relating to the labor protective provisions.
See Allegheny-Mohawk Merger Case, 59 C. A. B. 22 (1972);
Heil Affidavit, 6.
Because the stipulation upon which the lifting of the injunction was conditioned appears to be either unnecessary or extremely inequitable, depending upon its interpretation, and
because it appears to me likely that at least four Justices
would vote to grant certiorari and that the applicants are
likely to prevail on the merits, I grant the requested stay
of the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit's injunction
and order compelling arbitration before the System Boards,
pending the timely filing and subsequent disposition of a writ
of certiorari in this case.

