OCTOBER TERUt, 1903.
191 U. S.

Syllabus.

in regard to such liability, where they failed to state the proper
limitation of liability, were used under such circumstances as
to make it absolutely certain that the jury were not misled
thereby.
Many exceptions were taken in regard to the admissibility
of evidence during the trial of the cause and to the refusal of
the court to charge as requested by the defendant. We have
examined them all and are entirely satisfied that no error was
committed by the court in the disposition it made of them.
Many of the requests to charge were covered by the charge of
the court actually given, and many others were but partially
correct and so mingled with erroneous statements of the law
as to warrant the court in rejecting them.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit must, therefore, be

Affirmed.

CHOCTAW, OKLAHOMA & GULF RAILROAD COMPANY
v. HOLLOWAY.
ERROR TO THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 68. Submitted November 10, 19O3.-Declded November 30, 1903.
If an employ6 can by the use of his eyes see that the machinery is defective he is bound by that fact, even though he has not actually observed
the defect; but a fireman who has only been six hours on an engine is
not bound to have made a careful examination of the engine, in order to
charge the company with negligence or to exonerate himself from contributory negligence.
There is no necessity for the court to call the attention of the jury to the
rule that a railroad company is only bound to exercise reasonable care to
supply a reasonably safe engine, when it appears from uncontradicted
evidence that the engine supplied was not equipped with brakes under
circumstances which made the omission prima facie evidence of negligence.
Where the company has negligently failed to equip an engine with brakes
and it is derailed by striking an obstacle which was on the track without

CHOCTAW, OKLAHOMA &c. R. R. CO. v. HOLLOWAY. 335
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

negligence of the company, and there is evidence that the engine could
have been stopped more quickly with than without brakes, it is for the
jury to say whether there would have been an accident had the brakes
been on and fit to use; and if the obstacle caused the necessity for brakes
the neglect of the company to furnish them constitutes the immediate
and proximate cause of the accident rather than the existence of the
obstacle.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Edward B. Peirce for plaintiff in error.
Mr. John W. Blackwood for defendant in error.
MR. JusTIcE PEcxHAMi

delivered the opinion of the court.

Holloway, the plaintiff below, brought this action in a state
court of Arkansas, against the railroad company, to recover
damages for personal injuries alleged by him to have been
sustained through the negligence of the company while he
was in its employ and acting as fireman on one of its engines.
The action was removed into the United States Circuit Court
in Arkansas, on account of the company being incorporated
under an act of Congress.
Upon the trial the jury found a verdict for the plaintiff, and
upon writ of error from the Circuit Court of Appeals the judgment entered upon the verdict was affirmed, 114 Fed. Rep. 458,
and the company has brought the case here for review.
The amended complaint alleged that the plaintiff was on
October 27, 1900, in the employ of the defendant company as
a fireman, and that on the night of October 31, 1900, while he
was so engaged, the engineer of the engine on which he was
employed received orders from his superior officer, directing
him to back up his engine, (consisting of an engine and tank or
tender,) from Brinkley east to Hulbert, a distance of about
sixty miles, and that upon receiving the orders the engineer
and the plaintiff requested that they be permitted to reverse
or turn the engine so that the headlight would be in front and

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

the tender or tank in the rear, and they would thereby be
enabled to run the same with greater safety, but this request
was refused, and they were directed as stated; that, in obedience to the orders, they left Brinkley about 11 o'clock at night,
and continued to run the engine backward until it reached a
trestle about thirteen miles east of Brinkley, when they ran
upon and collided with a horse upon the said trestle, without
fault upon their part, and the switch engine was derailed and
plaintiff caught between the tank or tender and the engine,
and seriously and permanently injured.
One ground upon which negligence of the defendant was
founded was, as alleged in the complaint, the bad condition
of the brakes on the engine, which it was alleged were not in
a condition to work; that the same were out of repair, and that
there were no brake shoes on the brakes of the engine, and as
a consequence the engine brakes could not be worked, and
therefore when the engineer discovered, the horse on the track
and applied the air brakes, those on the wheels of the tank or
tender were successfully applied, while on account of the absence of shoe brakes on the engine, the brakes could not be
worked, and the effect of applying the air brakes was to stop
the tank or tender without having any effect on the engine,
and the engine was therefore forced with all its weight and
momentum against the tank or tender, thereby breaking the
cast-iron connection between the engine and tank or tender
and bringing the ends of the engine and tank close together,
and as the plaintiff was attempting to escape by going out
between the ends of the engine and tank he was caught between the same and thereby injured; that he had only been
on the engine for a few hours and knew nothing of the dangerous condition of the engine brakes.
These various allegations of the ignorance of the plaintiff
and of orders given to back the engine were denied by the
defendant. The company averred that the engine had no
brakes whatever on, it, and that the brakes on the tender or
tank were in good working condition, and it denied that it was

CHOCTAW, OKLAHOMA &c. R. R. CO. v. HOLLOWAY. 337
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in anywise guilty of negligence which caused the injury. It
also averred that if the defendant sustained any injury it was
due to his own carelessness or negligence, and was the result
of a risk assumed by him for which the defendant was not
liable.
The chief defence was founded on the allegation that the
defendant assumed whatever risk there was in his occupation
of fireman on the engine in question, and that he in fact knew
perfectly well that the engine had no brakes, and that he could
not but have observed that fact on a ride of fifty or sixty miles,
which he had taken on the engine prior to going out on it the
evening in question.
The plaintiff, however, swore distinctly that he did not know
of the absence of brakes on the engine. By the consent of the
parties, the jury viewed the locomotive, and the court gave
the jury instructions in relation to that matter, and told them
that in examining the engine"You will go inside and try to put yourselves only in the
same place that the fireman would naturally occupy, and then,
occupying that place, you are to determine whether the wheels
of the engine on which the brakes would be can be seen from
there without looking for them, while a man is employed for
several hours doing work on the engine as a fireman-that is,
whether he could easily see them by just keeping his eyes
open."
And the court also stated:
"A man cannot shut his eyes and say he don't want to see
anything which a reasonable man could not help but see if he
keeps his eyes open.
"Now, if for that reason-that is, if the fact that there were
not any brake shoes on that engine was obvious to any reasonably prudent man who runs on it as a fireman for several
hours, as the evidence shows that plaintiff did for six hours,
from Hulbert to Brinkley, before he went back again before
the accident happened, that is perfectly obvious to a man who
is fireman and traveling for six hours, (without hunting for it,)
VOL. OxOI-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

then the court will tell you that he had knowledge of, and ought
to have known it, and he is chargeable with it as if he had
known it."
Taking the whole charge together upon the subject of the
knowledge by the plaintiff of the absence of brakes on the
engine, we think there was no error in the judge's charge. It
amounted simply to a direction to the jury that the man was
bound to use his eyes, and if by their use he could see that the
machinery was defective, he was bound by that fact, even
though in truth he had not observed it, but that he was not
bound to make a careful examination of every particle of an
engine upon which he was fireman in order to charge the defendant with negligence or to exonerate himself from the charge
of contributory negligence. See Choctaw, 0. & G.R. R. Co. v.
McDade, ante 64.
Upon the subject of the duty of the defendant to furnish
safe machinery, the court said:
"By the laws of the country the defendant was bound to
furnish its employ6s working tools which were reasonably safe
and a place to work in which was reasonably safe. If it does
that, then it has discharged its duty, and in case of accident
to one of its employ6s it is not liable for the injuries sustained
by him."
Freed from the surrounding facts, and viewed simply as an
abstract proposition, it might be maintained that the court
erred in its charge that the company was bound to furnish
its employ6s working tools which were reasonably safe and a
place to work in which was reasonably safe, and when it has
done that it has discharged its duty. The charge left out the
condition that an employer is only bouiid to take ordinary and
reasonable care, as applied to the circumstances under which
the liability arises, to furnish reasonably safe appliances and
machinery. Hough v. Railway Co., 100 U. S.213, 218; Union
Pacific Railway Co. v. O'Brien, 161 U. S. 451. But the fact that
the company had failed to supply such a machine because of
the absence of brakes had been fully proved by uncontradicted

CHOCTAW, OKLAHOMA &c. R. R. CO. v. HOLLOWAY. 339
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

evidence, and, indeed, was conceded by the company. The
circumstances, unexplained, were such as to make the omissioli to furnish a brake for the engine'prima facie negligence
on the part of the company. It was unexplained by any
evidence, and remained as a fact proving negligence. There
was no occasion, therefore, to call attention to the fact that
the company was only bound to exercise reasonable care to
supply a reasonably safe engine, because the uncontradicted
facts showed it had not furnished such an one, and there was
no evidence that it had exercised ordinary or reasonable care
to furnish it, but on the contrary there was evidence to show
that it had not, and it was unexplained and uncontradicted.
The failure of the court to call the attention of the jury to this
limitation of liability was unimportant because of the evidence
already given, which showed the defendant had not complied
with the limitation.
It is insisted, however, on the part of the defendant, that
the court erred in not holding that the absence of brakes on
the engine was not the proximate cause of the injury; that the
presence of the horse on the trestle was the proximate cause
of derailing the tender and engine, and that the company was
not guilty of any negligence by reason of which the horse came
upon the trestle.
We think this claim is unfounded, and that the proximate
cause of the injury within the meaning of the law was the
absence of the brakes on the engine. At any rate, there was
evidence which made it a question for the jury to say whether
the accident would have happened if there had been brakes
on the engine in good order and fit for use.
It may be assumed that there was no negligence on the part
of the defendant by reason of which the horse came upon the
trestle, and that it was not, therefore, responsible for any
damage of which the horse was the sole and proximate cause.
We think one proximate cause of the accident was the absence of the engine brakes. The purpose of a brake is to stop
the engine more promptly than can be done without it, and

OCTOBER TERAI, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

if there had been a brake on the engine it would, if used, have
probably prevented the accident. At any rate, there was evidence to that effect. The absence of a brake which, if present,
would have prevented the accident was, therefore, a proximate cause thereof. If an obstacle on the track which necessitates the using of the brake is to be regarded as the sole
proximate cause of an accident which occurs only because
there was no brake on the engine, the result would be that
the company would never be liable, no matter what its negligence in not providing effective brakes, so long as its own
negligence did not cause the presence of the obstacle on the
track. This cannot be true. ,
The obstacle is one of the things which caused the necessity
to use the brake, and it is the neglect of the company in not
furnishing the brake which constitutes an immediate and proxmate cause of the injury.
The finding of the jury under the instructions of the judge
must be regarded as finding that the accident would not have
occurred if there had been a brake on the engine.
These are the principal objections to the judgment under
review. The other matters appearing in the record we have
examined but do not find that they are of sufficient importance to require any further notice. The judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit is, therefore,

Affirmed.

