GERG£GENS v. O'CONNOR.
191 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

GERTGENS v. O'CONNOR.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF M\INNESOTA..
No. 65. Argued November 9, 10, 1903.-Decided November 30,1903.
The decision of the land department in a contest case is conclusive in the
courts upon all questions of fact.
A patent is a conveyance by the government of the title, and is conclusive
in the hands of the patentee as against every individual unable to show
a superior right, legal or equitable.
The act of Mlarch 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 556, is remedial in its nature and, in
addition to directing an adjustment with railroad companies of their
land grants, provided for securing the equitable rights of parties contracting with the companies, and also those of settlers upon lands within the
limits of the grants.
The term "bona fide purchaser" found in the act is not used in its technical sense, but only as requiring good faith in the transactions between
the railroad companies and parties contracting with them in respect to
the lands.
One who for a sufficient consideration has obtained an option from a railroad company, giving him the right to purchase within a specified time
a large tract of land, and in reliance upon that option has expended
money and labor in securing settlers, may be regarded as a "bona fide
purchaser" within the scope of the act and entitled to the preferential
right of purchase given by section 5.
While a settler is favored in law, the equities of others must also be considered; and where he places his improvements upon land with full notice
of the superior rights of others thereto, he is not entitled to be regarded
as a bona fide settler either within the letter of the statute or within the
reach of any reasonable equities.

Tins was an action in ejectment commenced on February 15,
1900, by John P. O'Connor against Jacob Gertgens, in the
District Court of the Sixteenth Judicial District of the State
of Minnesotato recover possessionof the southwest I of section 9,
township 125, range 45 west. The defendant appeared and
answered. A trial was had before the court without a jury,
resulting in a judgment for the plaintiff, which was, on April 4,
1902, affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State, 85 Minnesota, 481, and thereupon this writ of error was sued out.

238

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

191 U. S.

The facts are these: The tract was surveyed public land,
situate in the county of Traverse, and lying within the twentymile indemnity limits of the grant to the St. Paul, Minneapolis
and Manitoba Railway Company, as defined by acts of Congress dated respectively March 3, 1857, 11 Stat. 195, c. 99, and
March 3, 1865, 13 Stat. 526, c. 105. It, with other lands, was
withdrawn from settlement and entry under the land laws of
the United States by executive withdrawal, dated May 25,
1869. In April, 1885, the tract, being within the indemnity
limits, was, with other tracts, selected by the railway company
as indemnity for deficiencies claimed to exist within the place
limits. There selections were all finally cancelled on October 23, 1896.
Prior to April 15, 1891, the land was unoccupied, but at that
time the defendant, being fully qualified as a homestead claimant, took possession with a view of claiming it as a homestead
under the laws of the United States, has ever since occupied
it as his homestead and made improvements thereon of the
value of $1,200. He made application at the local land office
for a homestead entry but it was refused by the local land
officials, and such refusal sustained on appeal by the Commissioner of the General Land Office. The refusal was on the
ground that the land was within the twenty-mile indemnity
limits of the railway company, and had been selected by the
company in 1885, long beforethe defendantwent upon the land.
In July, 1880, the railway company entered into a written
agreement with the Rev. John Ireland, a citizen of the United
States, by which the company gave him the sole and exclusive
right and authority to place settlers upon and sell to them all
the lands in the counties of Big Stone and Traverse, to which
the railway company might be entitled by virtue of the land
grants of March 3, 1857, and March 3, 1865, and which were
included within the indemnity limits of said grants. This
contract expired December 31, 1881. On March 30, 1883,
the railway company made a new agreement, which, after
referring to the prior contract, contained this stipulation:

GERTGENS v. O'CONNOR.
191 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

" Now, therefore, the contract herein referred to having
expired on the 31st day of December, A. D. 1881, and the
R. R. Co. not yet having acquired title to the lands in question, it is now agreed between the R. R. Co. and the Rev. John
Ireland that when title to these lands are acquired by the
R. R. Co., and notice of the same is given to Rev. John Ireland, he shall have the privilege and the right at any time
within sixty days of date of said notice of purchasing for himself or such parties as he may designate, due regard being
had, as stated in supplement to said contract for settlers who
may have obtained any claim upon such lands previous to
the date of said contract, any or all of the lands included in
said contract, not to exceed the amount of 50,000 acres at
uniform price of four dollars per acre, ten per centum of all
receipts from said lands at the above price to be furthermore
paid to the said Rev. John Ireland according as the monies
are received by the company, when such lands shall be purchased by Rev. John Ireland or those whom he may designate,
the conditions of sale usual with the company shall be observed or at least the interest upon the purchase money shall
be paid from the date of purchase to the fifteenth day of
December following, when the usual condition shall be enforced."
This agreement was duly recorded in the office of the register
of deeds of Traverse County, Minnesota. On February 8,
1896, Ireland made application to the Land Department for
leave to purchase from the government the land in controversy under the provisions of the fifth section of the act of
Congress of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 556, c. 376. This application was contested by the defendant, but the claim of
Ireland was sustained by all the officials of the Land Department, from the local officers up to the Secretary of the Interior. A patent was thereupon issued to Ireland, from whom
the plaintiff obtained a conveyance. The act of March 3,
1887, was an act directing the Secretary of the Interior to
Adjust, in aceordance with the decisions of the Supreme Court,

OCTOBER TERM, 1903..
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

the several railroad land grants made by Congress. Section 5,
under which Ireland made his claim, is copied in the margin.,
Mr. S. M. Stockolager and Mr. Thomas Kneeland for plaintiff
in error. Mr. George C. Heard and Mr. F. W. Murphy were
on the brief.
Mr. Edward T. Young and Mr. H. F. Stevens for defendant in
error.
AIR. JUSTICE BREWR, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The patent was issued to Ireland after a contest between
him and the defendant, in which the several officials of the
Land Department, from the local officers to the Secretary of
the Interior, sustained his contention. The decisions of the
Land Department in such contest cases are conclusive upon
all questions of fact. Burfenning v. Chicago &c. Railway, 163
U. S. 321, 323, and cases cited; Johnson v. Drew, 171 U. S. 93,
99; Gardner v. Bonestell, 180 U. S. 362; De Cambra v. Rogers,
189 U. S. 119. The patent passed the legal title to Ireland.
ISEc. 5. That where any said company shall have sold to citizens of the
United States, or to persons who have declared their intention to become
such citizens, as a part of its grant, lands not conveyed to or for the use of
such company, said lands being the numbered sections prescribed in the
grant, and being coterminous with the constructed parts of said road, and
where the lands so sold are for any reason excepted from the operation of
the grant to said company, it shall be lawful for the bona fide purchaser
thereof from said company to make payment to the United States for said
lands at the ordinary government price for like lands, and thereupon patents
shall issue therefor to the said bona fide purchaser, his heirs or assigns:
Provided,That all lands shall be excepted from the provisions of this section
which at the date of such sales were in the bona fide occupation of adverse
claimants under the preemption or homestead laws of the United States,
and -whose claims and occupation have not since been voluntarily abandoned, as to which excepted lands the said preemption and homestead
claimants shall be permitted to perfect their proofs and entries and receive
patents therefor: Providedfurther, That this section shall not apply to lands
settled upon subsequent to the first day of December, eighteen hundred and
eighty-two, by persons claiming to enter the same under the settlement
laws of the United States, as to which lands the parties claiming the same
as aforesaid shall be entitled to prove up and enter as in other like cases.

GERTGENS v. O'CONNOR.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

It devolved upon the defendant, contesting that title, to show
a superior right, legal or equitable, to the land. Both the
trial and Supreme Courts of the State decided against the defendant's claim. We have thus the unanimous conclusions
of all the officers of the Land Department of the United States
and of the judges of the courts of the State, to whom the question could be presented, in favor of plaintiff's title.
In respect to certain requirements of section 5, under which
the Land Department acted there is no question. Ireland
was a citizen of the United States. The tract was within the
contract made by the company with him in 1883. It had
never been conveyed to the company, or for its use. It was
an odd-numbered section, within the limits of the grant, and
coterminous with a constructed part of the road. It was excepted from the operation of the grant because of a defect in
the selection of indemnity lands. All these matters being
beyond dispute, there remain open the question whether the
land could be deemed to have been sold by the company to
Ireland, and whether he was a bona fide purchaser; and, further,
conceding that Ireland comes within the provisions of the
section, whether the equitable rights of the defendant as a
homestead settler are superior.
Was there a sale, and was Ireland a bona fide purchaser
within the scope of said section? It is contended on the one
hand that these are questions of fact concluded by the decisions of the Land Department, and on the other that it is the
duty of the court to construe a written instrument, and as the
agreement between the company and Ireland was in writing
it is a question of law and not of fact whether there was a sale
by the company and a purchase by Ireland. Doubtless,
whether a transaction evidenced by a written agreement was
a real transaction or a sham, whether it was executed with a
fraudulent intent or in good faith, may present questions of
fact, and in so far as those questions are involved in this case
the conclusions of the Land Department are final. We must
accept the agreement between the company and Ireland as
voL. OXCI-16

21-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

genuine, made in good faith, and supported, so far as it can
be, by all outside facts, such as a sufficient consideration.
It is, however, earnestly contended that there was no sale
or purchase; that the company gave only a mere option, which,
though binding on it, cast no obligations on Ireland. If he
wanted to complete the contract and pay for the land, he
might do so. If he did not, he was under no liability to the
company. Strictly speaking, this contention is correct. Ireland had made no payment for this land, had made no absolute promise to pay, and it was optiohal with him whether he
took the land or not. And if it be a condition of acquiring
a right under this section, that the party claiming must either
have paid or promised to pay, then Ireland was not entitled
to any benefit therefrom. But we think the section does
not compel such construction. We have more than once held
that the entire statute was remedial in its nature and must
be construed so as'to carry out the intent of Congress and
secure to the parties the intended relief. Primarily, the purpose was to secure an adjustment of the various land grants
in aid of railroads. Much confusion had existed in the construction and administration of those grants. There had been
conflicting decisions, and Congress attempted, without displacing vested rights, to do equity to all parties claiming
interests in lands within these various grants. It did not purpose to merely define legal rights or prescribe new methods
for their enforcement. The courts were competent under the
law, as it stood, without additional legislation to preserve
such rights.
There were three parties whose interests and equities were
to be regarded: First, the railway company, the beneficiary
of the grant; second, parties who had dealt with the railway
company in reference to lands claimed by it to be within the
scope of its grant; and, third, parties who had attenipted to
secure title under the settlement laws of the United States.
With reference to the railway company, it is sufficient to say
that Congress aimed to limit its acquisition of title to the

GERTGENS v. O'CONNOR.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

amount of land which it had in fact earned by the construction of the road, and prescribed that the adjustment with
it should be made in accordance with the rulings of this court;
authorized actions to recover any lands improperly conveyed
to the company, or, if the company had parted with them,
the value thereof in money.
As to those who had dealt with the railway company, its
evident purpose was to secure to them the lands they had contracted for, in so far as it could be done without trespassing
on the rights of settlers. The scope of section 5 is disclosed
by its opening words, "where any said company shall have
sold." In case of a sale, certain privileges are given upon
certain conditions. Nowhere does it provide as one of those
conditions that the company shall have received full, or indeed any, payment. If there is a sale it is sufficient. Why
in a remedial statute may not the word include a sale upon
conditions, one in which the proposed buyer has an election
to accept the company's promise? The section does not attempt to relieve any one whose transactions with the railway
company were not in good faith. The term "bona fide purchaser" is used in the statute; but, as we pointed out in United
States v. Winona &c. Railroad, 165 U. S. 463, 480, 481, not in
any technical sense, but simply as demanding good faith in
the transactions between the individual and the company.
It is true that the parties who, in that case, had dealt with the
company had in fact purchased and paid value, and it was'
unnecessary to consider anything more than the effect of such
transactions. But still it was distinctly held that the term
"bona fide purchaser" was not intended in any technical sense,
but only as one implying good faith.
In reference to Ireland's actions under his contracts with
the company, the Supreme Court of the State said (p. 488):
"Under his first contract with the railroad company, Ireland
expended large sums of money and devoted a great deal of
time to a colonization enterprise, and the expenditure and
labor was kept up until 1883; large numbers of people being

OCTOBER TERU, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

thereby induced to settle in a new country tributary to the
line of road belonging to the company.
"By it the company constituted Ireland its mere agent to
make sales of the lands therein scheduled, to receive payment
thereon, and to bind it to convey when its title should be perfected, or to return the money paid in case it failed to obtain
title.
"The agreement of Marcl 30 was wholly different. The
agency was at an end. Ireland was given the right to purchase for himself and for others 50,000 acres at a stipulated
price per acre, and upon certain terms. The company could
not then convey, and when it could was uncertain, and it was
agreed that purchasers should not be obliged to pay any part
of the purchase price until it was within the power of the company to give good title. This was the construction placed
upon the contract by the parties thereto, and it was the rational
and proper one. Ireland proceeded under this contract, as
he had under the first, to secure purchasers for these lands.
They became actual residents, and received contracts for conveyances. He expended much time and large sums of money
in the scheme to populate the country in question, and his
success was very noticeable."
It is not pretended that what he did under these contracts,
including therein his outlays of time and money, were under
his last agreement to be accepted by the company as so much
payment for the land, but these facts are stated to show the
bona fides of the transaction; that it was not an attempt by
means of a mere option to facilitate the acquisition of title
from the government to the injury of bona fide settlers. On
the contrary, Ireland was seeking to bring settlers on these
lands, and thus aiding in carrying out the general purpose of
the government to transform the vacant public lands into
homes. Surely a purpose so in harmony with that of the
government and an effort in the way that he pursued to carry
that purpose into effect makes a case appealing to the favorable consideration of Congress, and is in its nature essentially

GERTOENS v. O'CONNOR.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

different from a pure speculation in public lands at the expense of bona fide settlers. The rulings of the Land Department have been along the line of a recognition of the fact that
attempts in good faith by a party to obtain from a railroad
company for bona fide settlements lands believed to belong
to it or expected to be acquired by it, present cases which
were intended to be included within the act of 1887, and entitled to its protection. In re Campbell, 12 L. D. 247; Telford
v. Keystone Lumber Co., 18 L. D. 176; 19 L. D. 141; Holton
v. Rutledge, 20 L. D. 227; Austin v. Luey, 21 L. D. 507.
It must be borne in mind that the purpose of section 5 was
not relief to the company, but to one dealing with it. Ireland
by his contract had obtained rights from the company even
if he had not assumed obligations to it. The land was the
property of the government, and property to which the company acquired no title, but being within the limits of its grant
it had claimed a right and contracted with Ireland as though
it had or would receive the title. Section 5 gave to Ireland
only a right to purchase this land from the government-a
preferential right-paying to the government its price, no
portion of which was to pass to the railway company, and
gave him that preferential right because of his dealings with
the company. He had sought to obtain title to this land from
the company. He had made a contract by which, if the company acquired title, he could obtain that title; and Congress,
by section 5, simply provided that, having so acted in respect
to this land, he should have a preferential right of purchase.
The company neither gains nor loses. The government receives its price for the land, and is, therefore, fully protected,
and Ireland receives that, in respect to which he certainly has
some equitable claim of consideration, a preferential right of
purchase.
The third party is the settler under the land laws, and we
pass to consider his status and rights. A settler is, as has
often been said, favored in law, but it does not follow therefrom that he is the only one whose equities are to be consid-

OCTOBER TERE,4, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

ered. Congress, by- section 5, made provision for his protection--such provision as it deemed sufficient. While it
gave to purchasers from the railway company a preferential
right of purchase it excepted therefrom lands which at the
times of such purchase "were in the bona fide occupation of
adverse claimants under the predmption or homestead laws
of the United States, and whose claims and occupation have
not since been voluntarily abandoned." In other words, it
said that no purchaser from the railway company should have
a preferential right of purchasing any lands which at the time
of his dealings with the railway company were in the hands of
a bona fide settler under the laws of the United States, unless
such settler should voluntarily abandon his settlement. As
between a purchaser from the railway company and a settler
on the lands, the settler was given the prior right. But the
defendant was not a settler at the time of Ireland's contract,
nor, indeed, until many years thereafter. Neither did he come
under the protection of the second proviso, for, although his
settlement was after December 1, 1882, it was not until long
after the passage of the act.
It is well to look further into his equities. It will be borne
in mind that he did not go upon the land until April, 1891.
The tract was within the indemnity limits of the company's
grant, and was, therefore, subject to selection. It had been
withdrawn from entry under the land laws, and that fact appeared on the records of the local land office. It had, in fact,
been selected by the company, and that selection had not been
cancelled. Ireland's contract of 1883 was of record in the
office of the register of deeds of the county, and shown on
the books of the company. The defendant applied for leave
to enter the lands as a homestead, and was denied such leave
by the local land officers on the ground that it was-within the
twenty-mile indemnity limits of the railway company's grant,
and had been selected by the company. He was charged with
knowledge of the act of Congress giving a preferential right of
purchase from the government in case the company's title

MOSHEUVEL v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
191 U. S.

Syllabus.

should in any way fail. Notwithstanding all this, he remained
upon the land and put his improvements on it, and now claims
to be entitled to the rights of a bona fide settler. He does not
come within the letter of the statute, nor does he come within
the reach of any reasonable equities. He evidently took his
chances on the possibility of the company's failing to obtain
title and a subsequent failure of Ireland to insist upon his
preferential right of purchase. He went upon the land with
full knowledge of all the facts, which showed that he had no
right to enter, speculating upon possibilities which have not
been realized, and having so speculated he cannot complain
if he suffer the consequences which often attend the failure
of a speculation.
We think the judgment of the Supreme Court of Minnesota
was right, and it is

Affirmed.

MOSHEUVEL v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 6. Argued October 13,

03.-Decided November 3D,1903.

There is no rule of law in the Disfrict of Columbia that where a defect exists
in a highway and is known to one who elects to use such highway such election, even if justified by the dictates of ordinary prudence must, as a matter'
of law, entail the consequences of a want of ordinary care and prudence.
Where a hole exists in a sidewalk as the result of negligence on the part of
the authorities, and renders ingress and egress from a house more or less
dangerous, it is not such contributory negligence per se on the part of an
occupant of such house having knowledge of the hole to try to step over
it, as had been done on previous occasions, instead of going around it as
will justify the direction of a verdict for the defendant.
It is for the jury to determine from all the conditions whether the situation
of the defect and the hazard to result from an attempt to step over it was
so great that plaintiff, with the knowledge of the situation, could not as
a reasonably prudent person have elected to step over, instead of going
around it.

