LOUISVILLE TRUST CO. v. KNOTT.
191

U. S.

Statement of the Case.

LOUISVILLE TRUST COMPANY v. KNOTT.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
No 389. Submitted oqtober 13,1903.-Decided November 30, 19.

The question of jurisdiction which the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891,
c.517, 26 Stat. 826, permits to be certified directly to this court must be
one involving the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court as a Federal court,
and not simply its general authority as a judicial tribunal to proceed in
harmony with established rules of practice governing courta of concurrent jurisdiction as between themselves. Where the Circuit Court has
jurisdiction and appoints a receiver the question of jurisdiction under
the above act cannot, on the intervention of a receiver appointed by the
state court, be decided and certified directly to this court to ascertain
whether the Circuit Court or the state court had prior authority over
the trust estate involved in the litigation.
This court need not consider itself bound as to a question of jurisdiction
because it may have exercised jurisdiction in a case where the question
might have been raised but passed sub silentio. United States v. More,
3 Cranch, 159, 172.

THIS case arises out of the conflicting claims by the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Western District of Kentucky, and the Circuit Court of Jefferson County, Kentucky,
Chancery Branch, as to the right to administer the property
and aftairs of the Evening Post Company, a corporation of
Kentucky.
The Federal court having possession, by its Receiver, of the
property of that company, declined to surrender possession
to the Louisville Trust Company, the Receiver appointed by
the state court. From the final order dismissing the intervening petition of the latter company, the present appeal was
prosecuted. That order stated: "This appeal is granted solely
upon the question of jurisdiction, over the subject-matter of
the trust estate of the Evening Post Company in controversy,
and the question of whether this court, or the said Jefferson
VOL.

oXeT-15

OCTOBER TERMI, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

a 191 U. S.

Circuit Court, Chancery Branch, First Division, has prior jurisdiction in [is] the single question upon which this cause is
decided as to the said Louisville Trust Company; this court
holding that its jurisdiction over the said trust estate of the
Evening Post Company is prior and exclusive of the said Jefferson Circuit Court, Chancery Branch, First Division, all of
which is hereby certified on the appeal of the said Louisville
Trust Company as Receiver, &c., to the Supreme Court of the
United States for review as required by law."
It will be more satisfactory and conduce to a clear understanding of the precise grounds upon which our decision must
rest if the principal facts in the history of this controversy be
stated.
On the 30th day of April, 1903, at a meeting of the stockholders of the Post Company, a resolution was adopted-all
the stockholders except the owners of forty-eight shares concurring--by which the Columbia Finance and Trust Company
was appointed liquidator of that corporation, with authority
to conduct its business and affairs for the benefit of stockholders until its property could be sold and possession delivered to the purchaser in accordance with the statute of
Kentucky. The liquidator was directed from the proceeds of
sale to pay the debts of the corporation, and to distribute
any balance remaining among stockholders according to their
legal rights. It took immediate possession of all the property, books and papers of the Post Company.
On the 10th day of May, 1903, another corporation was
organized under the laws of Kentucky. It is referred to in
the record as the New Evening Post Company. To that
company the liquidator on May 18th, 1903, leased the property and assets of the old company, until a sale should take
place.
Prior to the making of that instrument, to wit, on May 12th,
1903, the executors and executrix of the estate of W. N. Haldeman commenced a suit in the Jefferson (Kentucky) Circuit
Court, Chancery-Branch, First Division, against the old Post

LOUISVILLE TRUST CO. v. KNOTT.
191 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Company, the Columbia Finance and Trust Company, Richard
W. Knott, J. M. Atherton, John R. Knott, Eugene Q. Knott
and Laura G. Boyle-the plaintiffs and the individual defendants being respectively owners of stock in the old company.
The object of that suit, as disclosed by the petition, was to
obtain a settlement of the accounts of the company and of its
liquidator; and to that end the plaintiffs asked a reference of
the cause to the commissioner of the court to audit and settle
the accounts of the Columbia Finance and Trust Company, and
after such auditing and settlement, that the assets of the company be sold, and the proceeds distributed according to law.
The plaintiffs further prayed that pending the action and until
the final liquidation of the affairs of the old company and the
sale of its assets, the court determine whether its affairs should
be continued in operation, and if so that the management of
the plant be under the direction of the court; further, that a
preliminary order be entered, commanding and directing the
defendants and each of them to allow the plaintiffs reasonable
access to and an examination of the books, papers, documents
and affairs of the old company, including all documentary
information in connection therewith in the possession of defendants or of either of them.
On the 19th of May, 1903, upon due notice, the plaintiffs
moved for an order airecting the defendants to allow the
plaintiffs, their counsel and accountant, reasonable access to
and inspection of the books, records and documents of the old
company, relating to its assets, liabilities and business affairs.
To that motion the defendants objected, and the motion was
assigned for hearing on May 23d, 1903. On the day last named
the parties appeared, the plaintiffs filed affidavits in support
of their motion, and the defendants interposed a demurrer
to the petition, as well as filed their several answers. The
motion and demurrer were heard in part, and the further
hearing of them was postponed until May 25th, 1903. On
the latter day, the hearing not being concluded, the cause was
postponed until the 30th of May, on which day it was sub-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

191 U. S.

mitted on the pending motion of plaintiffs, on defendants'
demurrer to the petition, and on a motion of the Columbia
Finance and Trust Company, entered on that day, for leave
to file an amended and supplemental answer. By an order
entered June 4th, 1903, the plaintiffs' motion, made on the
19th day of May, 1903, was sustained, and the defendants,
and each of them, were commanded and directed, until the
further orders of the court, to allow and afford the plaintiffs,
their attorneys or accountant, during business hours, reasonable access to and an inspection of the books, records and
documents of the Post Company, touching its condition and
business affairs, and especially touching its assets and liabilities, and the considerations paid or received therefor. The
demurrer of the defendants was also overruled, and the objection to the filing of the amended and supplemental answer of
the Columbia Finance and Trust Company, trustee, tendered
May 30th, 1903, was sustained.
While the above motion in the state court was pending,
Stuart R. Knott, a citizen of Missouri, and not a party to the
suit in the state court, obtained, May 26th, 1903, in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Western District of Kentucky, a judgment against the old company for $6,000 with
interest from April 30th, 1903. Upon that judgment execution immediately issued and was returned the next day,
May 27th, 1903, "no property found." And on the latter
day the present suit was commenced by him in the United
States Circuit Court, against the Evening Post Company,
Columbia Finance and Trust Company, R. W. Knott, B. G.
Boyle and E. Q. Knott, each defendant being a citizen of
Kentucky. The prayer of the bill was that the court at once
appoint a Receiver of all the rights, properties, franchises,
books of account, records, documents, choses in action and
all other things belonging to the Post Company, forthwith
to report what such property is, and what arrangement can
be made for the continued publication of said paper until a
decree could be entered directing a sale herein; that all proper

LOUISVILLE TRUST CO. v. KNOTT.
191 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

equitable relief may be had looking to the administration of
the estate of the company and the payment of its just debts;
and to that end the sale of its property and the bringing of
any money produced by such sale into the registry of the
court for distribution among creditors.
On the 28th day of May, 1903, all the defendants in the suit
in the United States Circuit Court assenting thereto, a Receiver
.of the property and assets of the Post Company was appointed
by that court, and the defendants were directed forthwith to
deliver to him all such property and assets of every kind and
description. That Receiver took immediate possession and,
under the authority of the court, entered into a contract with
the new company for the publication of the paper until the
assets of the old company were sold.
The plaintiff in the suit in the state court entered, June 13th,
1903, a formal motion to appoint a Receiver to take charge
of and manage the property and affairs of the Post Company;
and on June 18th the defendants in that suit appeared and
objected to the motion upon the ground that the assets of the
company were already in the possession and under the control
of a Receiver appointed by the United States Circuit Court in
the suit instituted by Stuart R. Knott. This objection was
overruled, and the state court, by order entered June 27th,
1903, appointed the Louisville Trust Company receiver, with
authority to claim and take possession" of the property and
assets of the Post Company. By the same order the commissioner of the court was directed to audit, state and settle
the accounts of the Columbia Finance and Trust Company
as liquidator and trustee of the old Post Company.
Subsequently, June 30th, 1903, the state court, by order
then entered, directed its Receiver to intervene-in the suit
instituted in the Federal Court and claim the estate in question
for administration and settlement in the state court. The
latter court was of the opinion that its jurisdiction to administer the said trust estate first attached, and in order that
the relief sought at its hands might be granted it was neces-

OCTOBER TERAI, 1903.
Argument for Appellant.

191 U. S.

sary that it have possession and control of the property of
the Post Company. Its Receiver was therefore ordered to
intervene in the suit pending in the Federal court, claim the
trust estate for administration and settlement in the state
court, and test the question as to the prior jurisdiction of the
state court over the subject matter.
Pursuant to that order the Louisville Trust Company intervened in the suit in the Federal court and moved that its Receiver be directed to turn over the property to the Receiver
of the state court. This motion was denied, Judge Evans, of
the Federal court, accompanying the denial of the motion
with an elaborate opinion, Knott v. Evening Post Co., 124 Fed.
Rep. 342, which concluded as follows: "First, that the proceedings in the suit in the state court, when given their just
effect, had not in any way when this court's Receiver was
appointed, brought into the custody of that court any property of the Evening Post Company, nor could they be regarded
as having, in fact, done so even if their scope were measured
by the prayer of the plaintiff's petition, rather than its averments; second, that it was, therefore, open to this court to
appoint a Receiver, and thereby judicially seize the property
of the company at the instance of a judgment creditor; and,
third, that having thus first acquired jurisdiction over the
property thus seized, the established principles of law and
the plain rights of the judgment creditor demand that this
court shall maintain its jurisdiction over it under these circumstances as certainly as it would have abandoned it if the
first seizure had been by the state court. It results that the
motion of the intervening petitioner must be overruled and
denied, and intervening petition dismissed."
Mr. John L. Dodd, Mr. David W. Baird, Mr. J. C. Dodd,
Mr. Aaron Kohn and Mr. T. W. Spindle for appellant:
The Federal circuit court, sitting at Louisville in the Western District of Kentucky, has no supervisory or revisory
power over suits properly instituted and pending in a state

LOUISVILLE TRUST CO. v. KNOTT.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

circuit court of concurrent jurisdiction over the same territory. ยง 720, U. S. Rev. Stat.; Haines v. Carpenter, 91 U. S.
254; Sargent v. Hebon, 115 U. S. 350; Taylor v. Carryl, 20
How. 595; Wiwall v. Sampson, 114 How. 65; Peck v. Jenness,
7 How. 624; In re Tyler, 149 U. S. 181; Orton v. Smith, 18 How.
266; Freeman v. Howe, 24 How. 450; Buck v. Colbath, 3 Wall.
334; Covell v. Hyman, 111 U. S. 182; Gumbel v. Pitkin, 124
U. S. 143; Moran v. Sturgis, 154 U. S. 256; Central Bank v.
Stevens, 169 U. S. 432; Shields v. Coleman, 157 U. S. 178;
Harkrader v. Wadley, 172 U. S. 148; Farmers Loan Co. v.
Lake St. Rd. Co., 177 U. S. 61; Merrittv. Am. Steel Barge Co.,
79 Fed. Rep. 231; S. C., 24 0. C. A. 530; Heidritterv. Oil Cloth
Co., 112 U. S. 294, 305; Adams v. Mercantile Trust Co., 66 Fed.
Rep. 621; S. C., 30 U. S. App. 204; S. C., 15 C. C. A. 1; Hatch
v. Bancroft, 67 Fed. Rep. 807; Powers v. Blue Grass Bld'g
Assn., 86 Fed. Rep. 705.
Mr. Alexander P. Humphrey and Mr. James P. Helm for
appellee:
The lower court did not err in refusing to surrender to the
state court the control over assets acquired almost a month
before the state court was asked or undertook to appoint a
receiver. See cases cited in opinion of the Circuit Court.
Amongst them Shields v. Coleman, 157 U. S. 177; Gaylor v.
Ft. Wayne &c. R. R., 6 Bissell 286, 291; Moran v. Sturgis,
154 U. S. 256, 270; High on Receivers, 3d ed. ยง 50; Compton
v. Jesup, 68 Fed. Rep. 263; Dickerman v. Northern Trust Co.,
176 U. S. 188.
Mn. JUsTICE HAnRLA, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
We are of opinion that the judgment of the Circuit Court
dismissing the intervening petition of the Louisville Trust
Company is not subject to review here upon direct appeal or
writ of error to that court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

By the Judiciary Act of March 3d, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826,
an appeal or a writ of error, as the one or the other mode may
be proper, can be taken directly from a Circuit Court to this
court in certain specified cases, among which is "any case in
which the jurisdiction of the court is in issue;" and "in such
cases the question of jurisdiction alone shall be certified to the
Supreme Court from the court below for decision." ยง 5. In
all cases, other than those specified in section five of that act,
the Circuit Court of Appeals is given appellate jurisdiction. ยง 6.
The question presented by the certificate of the Circuit Court
is not one of jurisdiction, within the meaning of the fifth section of the act of 1891, and the jurisdiction of that court was
not "in issue." There was diversity in the citizenship of the
parties to this suit, instituted by Stuart R. Knott as a citizen
of Missouri, and no question was raised, or could have been
raised, as to the authority of the Circuit Court, as a Federal
court, to take cognizance of it. The issue made by the intervening petition of the Louisville Trust Company did not involve the jurisdiction of that court, as a Federal tribunal, to
appoint a receiver of the assets and property of the Evening
Post Company. What the Circuit Court did in that respect
was questioned by the Trust Company, on behalf of the state
court, solely upon the ground that the taking by the Federal
court of possession of the property and assets of the Post
Company-after the state court by the institution of the
Haldeman suit had acquired authority to appoint a receiver
of such property and assets for administration-was in violation of the rule recognized in courts of equity, whether of
Federal or state origin, that "where the jurisdiction of a court,
and the right of a plaintiff to prosecute his suit in it, have once
attached, that right cannot be arrested or taken away by proceedings in another court;" that, as the object of the suit in
the state court could not be accomplished without possession
of the property and assets of the Post Company, the seizure
of such property and assets under the order of the Federal
court, whereby the state court was prevented from giving any

LOUISVILLE TRUST CO. v. KNOTT.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

effectual relief to the parties before it, was inconsistent with
the relations which, upon principles of comity and right, always exist between courts having concurrent jurisdiction over
the same subject matter. Peck v. Jenness, 7 How. 612, 624;
Taylor v. Carryl, 20 How. 583, 596.
In all this there was nothing involving the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Court as a Federal tribunal, whose jurisdiction is
regulated by acts of Congress. The question of jurisdiction
which the statute permits to be certified to this court directly
must be one involving the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court as
a Federal court, and not simply its general authority as a
judicial tribunal to proceed in harmony with established rules
of practice governing courts of concurrent jurisdiction as between each other.
We think this question was substantially so determined in
Smith v. McKay, 161 U. S. 355, 357. That was a suit in equity
for an injunction to restrain the defendants from using certain patented machines until they had fully paid the fees they
had agreed to pay to the patentee. The defendants moved
to dismiss the bill upon the ground that there was a plain,
adequate, and complete remedy at law-thus raising only a
question of equity jurisdiction. The motion to dismiss was
denied. After final decree for the plaintiff, the case was
brought directly to this court by appeal, and it was assigned
for error that the Circuit Court erred in not dismissing the
suit for want of jurisdiction. The position of the appellee
in that case was that only questions of Federal jurisdiction
could be brought directly here; and that if the Circuit Court
had jurisdiction of the parties and of the matters in dispute,
the fact that the remedy of the plaintiff was at law, rather
than in equity, raised no question of jurisdiction within the
meaning of the fifth section of the Judiciary Act of March 3d,
1901, under which the appeal was taken.
The court observed that the question had never been directly decided by it, but that it arose in the World's Columbian
Exposition case, 18 U. S. App. 42, in which the Circuit Court

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

sittinj in equity granted an injunction to prevent the opening
of the Exposition Grounds to the public on Sunday. That
case was taken by appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Seventh Circuit, and a motion was there made to dismiss
the appeal. Chief Justice Fuller, speaking for that court,
said: "The appellees have submitted a motion to dismiss the
appeal upon the grounds that the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court was in issue; that the case involved the construction or
application of the Constitution of the United States; that the
constitutionality of laws of the United States was drawn in
question therein; that therefore the appeal from a final decree
would lie to the Supreme Court of the United States, and not
to this court; and hence that this appeal, which is from an
interlocutory order, cannot be maintained under the seventh
section of the Judiciary Act of March 3d, 1891. We do not
understand that the power of the Circuit Court to hear and
determine the cause was denied, but that the appellants contended that the United States had not, by their bill, made a
case properly cognizable in a court of equity. The objection
was the want of equity, and not the want of power. The
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was, therefore, not in issue
within the intent and meaning of the act."
Referring to these observations of the Chief Justice, this
court in Smith v. McKay said: "We regard this as a sound
exposition of the law, and applied to the case now in hand,
it demands a dismissal of the appeal, on the ground that the
objection was not to the want of power in the Circuit Court
to entertain the suit, but to the want of equity in the complainant's bill. The appellant's contention in this respect
would require us to entertain an appeal from the Circuit Court
in every case in equity, in which the defendant should choose
to file a demurrer to the bill on the ground that there was a
remedy at law. When the requisite citizenship of the parties
appears, and the subject matter is such that the Circuit Court
is competent to deal with it, the jurisdiction of that court
attaches, and whether the court should sustain the complain-

LOUISVILLE TRUST CO. v. KNOTT.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ant's prayer for equitable relief, or should dismiss the bill with
leave to bring an action at law, either would be a valid exercise of jurisdiction. If any error were committed in the exercise of such jurisdiction, it could only be remedied by an appeal
to the Circuit Court of Appeals." 161 U. S. 355, 358.
In principle, the judgment in Smith v. McKay embraces the
present case. The issue presented by the intervening petition
did not raise any question under the Constitution or statutes
of the United States, and depended only upon principles of
general law applicable to all courts having concurrent jurisdiction over the same subject matter. We repeat that the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was not and is not questioned
for want of power in that court, as a Federal tribunal, to take
possession of the assets and property of the Post Company;
only its authority, upon principles of equity and comity, to
do that of which complaint was made by the Louisville Trust
Company. We do not think that Congress intended that any
such question should be the basis of a direct appeal to this
court from a Circuit Court.
The question again arose in Blythe v. Hinckley, 173 U. S. 501,
506, where this court said: "Appeals or writs of error may
be taken directly from the Circuit Courts to this court in cases
in which the jurisdiction of those courts is in issue, that is,
their jurisdiction as Federal Courts, the question alone of
jurisdiction being certified to this court. The Circuit Court
held that the remedy was at law and not in equity. That
conclusion was not a decision that the Circuit Court had no
jurisdiction as a court of the United States. Smith v. McKay,
161 U. S. 355; Blythe Co. v. Blythe, 172 U. S. 644. The Circuit Court dismissed the bills on another ground, namely, that
the judgments of the state courts could not be reviewed by
that court on the reasons put forward. This, also, was not in
itself a decision of want of jurisdiction because the Circuit
Court was a Federal court, but a decision that the Circuit
Court was unable to grant relief because of the judgments rendered by those other courts. If we were to take jurisdiction

OCTOBER TERg, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

on this certificate, we could only determine whether the Circuit Court had jurisdiction as a court of the United States, and
as the decree rested on no denial of its jurisdiction as such, but
was rendered in the exercise of that jurisdiction, it is obvious
that this appeal cannot be maintained in that aspect."
It is proper to observe that this court in Shiels v. Coleman,
157 U. S. 168, 177, assumed jurisdiction upon direct appeal
from a Circuit Court in a case involving the question whether
that court had authority to appoint a receiver of property
which was at the time in the possession of a receiver appointed
by a state court. As the Federal court had, in that case, taken
property out of the physical possession of a receiver of the
state court, this court expressed its views upon the question
whether the possession of the state court should have been
disturbed by the Federal court, and it rendered judgment
accordingly. But the precise question here presented as to
the jurisdiction of this court under the act of 1891, on direct
appeal from the Circuit Court, was not there raised or considered. In United States v. More, 3 Cr. 159,172 (1805), it was
held that this court was without jurisdiction, under the law
as it then was, to review the final judgment of the Circuit
Court of the District of Columbia in a criminal case. It was
suggested at the bar, in that case, that this court had, in a
previous case, exercised appellate jurisdiction- in a criminal
case. Chief Justice Marshall met that suggestion by saying:
"No question was made in that case as to the jurisdiction. It
passed sub silentio, and the court does not consider itself as
bound by that case." To the same effect, substantially, are
United States v. Sanges, 144 U. S. 310, 319, and Cross v. Burke,
146 U. S.82.
In the circumstances of the present case, and to avoid misapprehension in the future, we deem it our duty distinctly to
declare the true meaning of the word jurisdiction as used in
the fifth section of the Judiciary Act of 1891.
For the reasons stated, the appeal from the Circuit Court
must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction in this court.
It is so ordered.

