DEPOSIT BANK v. FRANKFORT.
191 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

DEPOSIT BANK v. FRANKFORT.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.

No. 33. Argued October 20, 21, 103.-Decided December 14, 1903.
A right claimed under the Federal Constitution, finally adjudicated in the
Federal courts, can never be taken away or impaired by state decisions,,
refusing to give due weight to such Federal judgment properly invoked
for the protection of the party in whose favor it was rendered.
When a state court refuses to give effect to a judgment of a Federal
court which adjudicates that one of the parties has a contract within
the protection of the impairment clause of the Federal Constitution it
denies a right secured by the judgment of the Federal court upon matters
wherein its decision is final until reversed in an Appellate Court or
modified or set aside in the court of its rendition.
The adjudication of a Federal court establishing a contract exempting
from taxation although based upon the judgment of a state court given
as a reason therefor is equally effectual as res judicata between the
parties as though the Federal court had reached its conclusion as upon
an original question; and under the doctrine of res judicatf such adjudication will estop either party in subsequent litigation between themselves
from again litigating the question of contract determined in the former
action, even though the judgment of the state court upon which the
Federal court based its decision has meanwhile been reversed by the
highest court of that State.
Where it has been litigated and determined in a Federal Court that the
state law under which the taxes were levied is unconstitutional within
the impairment clause of the Constitution because of a contract which
exempted from all taxation, including particular years then in controversy, the question is res judeata as to the right to levy the tax under
such law in any other year although it may have been established by
the highest court of that State that an adjudication concerning taxes
for one year cannot be pleaded as an estoppel in suits involving taxes of
other years.

THIS action was brought by the board of councilmen of the
city of Frankfort in the Franklin Circuit Court for the recovery
of certain ad valorem taxes under levies for the years 1892, 1893
and 1894. The tax for the year 1892 has been eliminated from
the controversy, and the matters now disputed include the taxes
for the years 1893 and 1894 and interest. The bank in the first
instance relied upon the provisions of a certain law of the State
of Kentucky, known as the Hewitt law, as exempting it from

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

191 U. S.

the taxes sought to be enforced. This law was passed in 1886,
Session Laws of Kentucky, 1885-6, pp. 140, 144-147, 201,
and provided:
"SEcrIoN 1. That shares of stock in state or national banks,
and other institutions of loan or discount, and in all corporations required by law to be taxed on their capital stock, shall
be taxed 75 cents on each share thereof, equal to $100, or on
each $100 of stock therein owned by individuals, corporations
or societies, and said banks, institutions and corporations shall,
in addition, pay upon each $100 of so much of their surplus,
undivided surplus, undivided profits, or undivided accumulations, as exceeds an amount equal to ten per cent of their
capital stock, the same rate of taxation that is assessed upon
real estate, which shall be in full of all tax, State, county and

municipal.
"SEc. 4. Tfiat each of said banks, institutions and corporations, by its proper corporate authority, with the consent of a
majority in interest of a quorum of its stockholders, at a regular
or called meeting thereof, may give its consent to the levying
of said tax, and agree to pay the same as herein provided, and
to waive and release all right under the acts of Congress, or
under the charters of the state banks to a different mode or
smaller rate of taxation, which consent or agreement to and
with the State of Kentucky shall be evidenced by writing under
the seal of such bank and delivered to the governor of this
Commonwealth; and upon such agreement and consent being
delivered, and in consideration thereof, such bank and its
shares of stock shall be exempt from all other taxation whatsoever so long as said tax shall be paid during the corporate
existence of such bank.
"SEc. 5. The said bank may take the proceeding authorized
by section 4 of this act at any time until the meeting of the next
general assembly: provided, they pay the tax provided in section 1 from the passage of this act.
"SEc. 6. This act shall be subject to the provisions of section 8, chapter 68, of the General Statutes.

DEPOSIT BANK v. FRANKFORT.
191 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

"SIEc. 7. If any bank, State or national, shall refuse or fail to
pay the tax imposed by this act, or shall fail or refuse to make
the consent and agreement as prescribed in section 4, the shares
of stock of such bank, institution or corporation and its surplus,
undivided accumulations and undivided profits, shall be assessed as directed by section 2 of this act, and the same taxes,
State, county and municipal, shall be imposed, levied and
collected upon the assessed shares, surplus, undivided profits,
undivided accumulations, as is imposed on the assessed taxable
property in the hands of individuals: Provided, that nothing
herein contained shall be construed as exempting from taxation
for county or municipal purposes any real estate or building
owned and used by said banks or corporations for conducting
their business, but the same may be taxed for county and
municipal purposes as other real estate is taxed."
The Deposit Bank of Frankfort accepted the terms of the
Hewitt law and made payment of the taxes as therein provided.
The Circuit Court of Franklin County, by judgment upon
the pleadings in this case, sustained the bank's claim of exemption, holding the Hewitt law to be an irrevocable contract
between the bank and the State. Upon appeal, this judgment
was reversed by the Kentucky Court of Appeals, that court
holding that the Hewitt act did not constitute an irrevocable
contract, and had been repealed by the later act of 1892, under
which act the bank was not exempt from payment of the taxes
in controversy.
After the case was remanded to the Circuit Court for a new
trial the bank filed a supplementary answer, setting up as an
estoppel a decree of the United States Circuit Court for the
District of Kentucky rendered in 1898, in a case to which the
bank and the complainant were parties. The decree in that
case was rendered upon a bill filed by the bank, in which it set
up, among other things, a certain judgment of the Franklin
Circuit Court rendered in 1896, in which it was adjudged that
the Hewitt law constituted an irrevocable contract exempting
the bank from taxation. At the time of the rendition of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

,
191 U. S.

decree in the United States court the judgment of the state
Circuit Court relied on was in full force although subsequently
reversed by the Kentucky Court of Appeals.
In the Federal court the following decree was rendered:
"The court being sufficiently advised, files its opinion herein.
"It is therefore adjudged, ordered and decreed as follows:
"First. That the demurrer of the defendants Board of Councilmen of the City of Frankfort and Franklin County and of the
defendants Samuel H. Stone, G. W. Long and Charles Finley
be, and the said demurrers are, hereby overruled; to which the
said defendants each except.
"Second. The plea of defendants Board of Councilmen of the
City of Frankfort and Franklin County to the bill of complaint
is overruled; to which the said defendants except.
"Third. Thereupon came the complainant, by Frank Chinn,
its counsel, and files its replication to the answer of the defendants, Board of Councilmen of the City of Frankfort and Franklin County. The defendants, County of Franklin and City of
Frankfort, offered to file an amended answer; to which complainant objected, and the motion to file is overruled; to which
said defendants except, and said amended answer is made a
part of the record by the order of the court.
"And by consent this cause came on to be heard for final
decree. The complainant read upon hearing its bill of complaint and its amended bill of complaint herein, together with
all the exhibits filed with said bills, to wit:
"Exhibit 'A,' being the record of the proceedings in the case
of Deposit Bank of Frankfort against Franklin County and
John W. Gaines, sheriff.
"Exhibit 'B,' being the records in the proceedings in the case
of Deposit Bank of Frankfort against Franklin County and
R. D. Armstrong, sheriff.
"Exhibit 'C,' being judgment of Franklin Circuit Court,
entered February 1, 1896, in the suit of Deposit Bank of Frankfort against Franklin County.
"Exhibit 'D,' being record of the proceedings in the case of

DEPOSIT BANK r. FRANKFORT.
191 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Board of Councilmen of City of Frankfort against Deposit Bank
of Franklin.
"The defendant, The County of Franklin, read on the hearing
its answer, and the defendant Board of Councilmen of the City
of Frankfort read on the hearing the record of the proceedings
in the case of Board of Councilmen of City of Frankfort against
L. C. Norman, auditor, etc., and also read its answer.
"And it is now adjudged, ordered and decreed that the defendants, Samuel H. Stone, Charles Finley and George W.
Long be, and they are hereby, perpetually enjoined and restrained from proceeding to value the franchise of the complainant under the act of November 11, 1892, for the years
1895, 1896, 1897, 1898, or for any other subsequent years
until the expiration of the charter of the complainant, and are
enjoined and restrained from certifying such value to the
county clerk of Franklin County or to any officer of the board
of councilmen of the city of Frankfort or the county of Franklin
and the defendants, County of Franklin and Board of Councilmen of the City of Frankfort, are enjoined and restrained from
endeavoring to collect any tax upon any such valuations; and
the complainant, by making payments in accordance with the
Hewitt law, is discharged in full from all taxes to be exacted
from it under any form or by any authority.
"It is further adjudged, ordered and decreed that by reason
of the several pleas of res judicata, relied on by the complainant
in its bill, and as shown by the exhibits therewith, the complainant has established a contract with the Commonwealth of
Kentucky, under the provisions of article 2 of the act of the
general assembly of the State of Kentucky, entitled 'An act to
amend the revenue laws of the Commonwealth of Kentucky,'
approved May 17, 1886, and the acceptance of the same by
the complainant, the terms of which contract the commonwealth cannot alter or change without the consent of the
complainant; that by the terms of this contract the complainant and its shares of stock cannot, during its corporate existence, be assessed for taxation for State purposes in a different

OCTOBER TERMI, 1903.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

191 U. S.

mode or at a greater rate of taxation than as prescribed in said
act, and can be assessed for taxation and taxed for county and
municipal purposes only upon its real estate used by it in
conducting its business; that the provisions of the present constitution of the Commonwealth of Kentucky and the act of November 11, 1892, in so far as they are intended to provide or
do provide for any assessment or taxation of the complainant's
property, rights of property, or franchise, or shares of stock,
except to the extent and in the manner provided by sections 1,
2 and 3 of article 2 of the said act approved May 17, 1886, and
except to assess and tax for county and municipal purposes
upon its real estate used in conducting its business, are in violation of and repugnant to the Federal Constitution and void.
"And it is further adjudged that the complainant recover
of the defendant its costs in this action expended.
"And came defendants and prayed an appeal in open court,
and tendered their assignment of errors; whereupon the court
allowed the appeal, and orders the assignment of errors to be
filed and fixes the appeal bond at one thousand dollars."
This decree of 1898 was afterwards affirmed in this court.
Stone v. Deposit Bank, 174 U. S. 800. The Franklin Circuit
Court in the case now before us dismissed the petition upon the
ground that there had been no proper return of no property
found, and did not pass upon the question as to whether the
decree of the United States court was effectual as an estoppel
between the parties. Upon appeal to the Court of Appeals of
Kentucky, it was held by a majority of the court, three judges
dissenting, that the decree relied upon was not an estoppel.
By writ of error that judgment is brought here for review.
Mr. Frank Chinn, with whom Mr. D. W. Lindsey was on the
brief, for plaintiff in error:
The decree of the United States court relied on as a bar to
this action having been rendered by a court having jurisdiction
of the cause and of the parties, is conclusive upon the city in
every other court so long as that decree stands unreversed.

DEPOSIT BANK v. FRANKFORT.
191 U.S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Hollisterv. Abbott, 64 Am. Dec. 342, and cases cited; Dupuy v.
Johnson, 4 Bibb, 562; Garner's Admr. v. Strode, 5 Litt. 314;
Paul v. Smith, 82 Kentucky, 431; Davis v. McCorkle, 14 Bush,
751.

And the fact that this action was begun before that in which
the United States court suit was filed does not alter the rule.
Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law, vol. 12, p. 149c, and cases there
cited.
The Court of Appeals was without jurisdiction to decide
whether or not the United States court based its judgment
upon one or all of the pleas of res judicata set up and relied on
by the bank in that case, the rule being well settled that as
between national and state courts, neither will undertake to
grant relief from a judgment rendered by the other. One
having equitable grounds for relief from a judgment rendered
in courts of either must apply to the court of the sovereignty
in which the judgment was rendered. Freeman on Judgments,
sec. 485, p. 852, citing Riggs v. Johnson, 6 Wall. 166; United
States v. Keokuk, 6 Wall. 514; Engles v. Miller, 2 Rich. Eq.
320; Strozen v. Hawes, 30 Georgia, 578; 1 U. S. Stats. at Large,
335.
The Federal question is, that the rights and immunities
which the Deposit Bank acquired under the decree of June,
1898, affirmed by this court, have been denied and disregarded
by the state court by the judgment in error, in violation of
section 709, Revised Statutes of the United States. Foster's
Fed. P. & P. vol. 2, p. 1180, note 1, citing Tex. & Pac. R. Co.
v. Johnson, 151 U. S. 81-99; U. S. Rev. Stat. see. 709; Pittsburgh &c. Ry. Co. v. Trust Company, 172 U. S. 493; Dowell v.
Appellate, 152 U. S. 327.
Mr. W. H. Julian,with whom Mr. Ira Julianand Mr. T. H.
Crockett were on the brief, for defendant in error:
The sole ground relied on for reversal is that the United
States Circuit Court for the District of Kentucky in Deposit
Bank v. Stone, of 1898, held that the Hewitt law constituted

OCTOBER TERMI, 1903.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

191 U. S.

an irrevocable contract between the Deposit Bank of Frankfort and the State of Kentucky. If that proposition were
true, the bank's plea of estoppel would not be available herein,
because of the first judgment by the state court rendered in
1900, from which no writ or error was ever prosecuted or prayed.
An estoppel against an estoppel sets the matter at large.
Bigelow on Estoppel, 5th ed. p. 360, and authorities cited.
The proposition, however, is unsound. The Federal court, in
Bank v. Stone, did not hold that such law constituted an irrevocable contract between the bank and the State.
The question of Hewitt law contract decided by the state
court in June, 1900, is an entirely different question from the
question of estoppel decided by the Federal court in 1898.
The former is a Federal, question. The latter is not a
Federal question. Phenix Insurance Co. v. Tennessee, 161
U. S. 184.
All that this court has ever required of the courts of last
resort of the States, in giving effect to Federal court judgments,
is: That Federal court judgments be given the same effect that
is given state court judgments, of the same character and rendered under similar circumstances, by the courts of the State
in which they are rendered. Section 905, Revised Statutes
U. S., as construed by this court in numerous cases, so requires.
Mills v. Duryee, 7 Cranch, 484; Hampton v. McConnell, 3
Wheat. 234; Metcalf v. Watertown, 153 U. S. 676, and cases
cited; McElmoyle v. Cohen, 13 Pet. 326; Christmas v. Russell,
5 Wall. 290; Thompson v. Whitman, 18 Wall. 457; Abraham v.
Casey, 179 U. S. 218. As to the effect as an estoppel given to
such judgments, as that relied on by appellee herein, "by the
courts, laws and usage" of Kentucky, see City of Newport v.
Commonwealth, 21 Ky. L. Rep. 47, and cases cited; Nagley v.
City of Henderson, 59 S. W. Rep. 19; Bell County C. & I. Co.
v. City of Pineville, 23 Ky. L. Rep. 933; City of Frankfort
v. Deposit Bank, 23 Ky. L. Rep. 1285 (1901), involved the same
question. Exermiption was claimed by the bank on the ground
of a former adjudication of contract in a litigation as to taxes

DEPOSIT BANK v. FRANKFORT.
191 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

for the years 1895, 1896, 1897, 1898. The plea of estoppel was
held unavailable. See also Louisville Bridge Co. v. Louisville,
65 S. W. Rep. 814; Douglass v. Comm., 15 Ky. L. Rep. 581,
affirmed Douglass v. Kentucky, 168 U. S. 488.
The judgment from which this writ of error is prosecuted not
only gives to the judgment relied on as an estoppel herein the
same effect which that court has uniformly given to the same
character of judgments rendered by the courts of Kentucky,
but also the same effect which this court has uniformly given
to such judgments.
There are two classes of estoppel by res judicata-namely,
1st, "estoppel by former judgment," and 2d, the claim. of
estoppel now relied on, "estoppel by former verdict." Keokuk
& Western R. R. v. Missouri, 152 U. S. 31.
This character of estoppel is subject to very many restrictions.
Unlike estoppels by former judgment (which apply to all
matters both of law and fact, which were litigated and determined in the former suit, and also to all matters which might
have been litigated and determined in the former suit) the
estoppel by former verdict is restricted to issues of fact which
were actually litigated and determined in the former suit and
which arisd in the second suit under substantially the same
circumstances as in the first action. Cromwell v. Sac, 94 U. S.
315; New Orleans v. Citizens Bank, 167 U. S. 371.
And see also Galpin v. Page, 18 Wall. 374; Freeman on
Judgments, 4th ed. vol. 1, § 329, and authorities cited; C. & V.
R. R. Co. v. Fosdick, 106 U.'S. 47, in which the reversal of the
decree on whichthe other decrees were based, were held ipso facto
to vitiate the latter. See also Butler v. Eaton, 141 U. S. 243.
There is no reason for the chancellor's giving any other or
further effect to a decree or order of injunction after the foundation thereof has been destroyed, and the purpose thereof has
been fully accomplished, whatever the general language of
injunction. Pennsylvaniav. Wheeling and Belmont Bridge Co.,
18 How. 421; Newport v. Newport Light Co., 14 Ky. L. Rep. 485.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

M¢iR. JUSTICE DAY, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The so-called Hewitt law, set forth in the foregoing statement, has given rise to much litigation in the courts of Kentucky, as well as in those of the United States. At one time
it was held by the Court of Appeals of Kentucky that its provisions, when complied with by the bank seeking to avail itself
of its privileges, constituted a valid and binding contract.
Commonwealth, to use of Franklin Co. v. Farmers' Bank of
Kentucky et al., 97 Kentucky, 590. In a later case the Court
of Appeals of Kentucky held the law not to constitute an inviolable contract. Deposit Bank of Owensboro v. Daviess Co.,
102 Kentucky, 174. When the law was before this court, the
same conclusion was reached. Citizens' SavingsBank of Owensboro v. Owensboro, 173 U. S. 636.
It may be now regarded as the settled law that this enactment did not constitute a contract between the State and the
banks as to taxation, but is subject to modification and repeal
by subsequent laws of the State undertaking to tax bank
property.
In this case we have to deal with the effect of a decree of the
Circuit Court of the United States which is unreversed and
affirmed in this court, and in which, between the parties to the
present action, it was held that the Hewitt law was a valid
enactment and constituted a contract between the parties
within the protection of the contract clause of the Constitution
of the United States. A proper consideration of the question
requires that it shall be distinctly understood just what this
decree is. The bill which was the basis of the action of the
court was broad in its terms, and sought not only to enjoin the
collection of the taxes for the years 1895, 1896, 1897, 1898,
which were involved, but to have it finally adjudicated that
the Hewitt law constituted a contract between the parties
which shielded the bank from taxation after complying with
the provisions of that law. The decree not only provided for

DEPOSIT BANK v. FRANKFORT.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

a perpetual injunction enjoining the taxation for the years
specifically mentioned, but further:
"It is further adjudged, ordered and decreed that by reason
of the several pleas of res judicata,relied on by the complainant
in its bill and as shown by the exhibits therewith, the complainant has established a contract with the Commonwealth of
Kentucky under the provisions of article 2 of the act of the
general assembly of the State of Kentucky, entitled 'An act to
amend the revenue laws of the Commonwealth of Kentucky,'
approved May 17, 1886, and the acceptance of the same by the
complainant, the terms of which contract the Commonwealth
cannot alter or change without the consent of the complainant;
that by the terms of this contract the complainant and its
shares of stock cannot, during its corporate existence, be assessed for taxation for state purposes in a different mode or
at a greater rate of taxation than as prescribed in said act, and
can be assessed for taxation and taxed for county and municipal purposes only upon its real estate used by it in conducting
its business; that the provisions of the present constitution of
the Commonwealth of.Kentucky and the act of November 11,
1892, in so far as they are, intended to provide or do provide
for any assessment or taxation of the complainant's property,
rights of property, or franchise, or shares of stock, except to
the extent and in the manner provided by sections 1, 2 and 3
of article 2 of the said act approved May 17, 1886, and except
to assess and tax for county and municipal purposes upon its
real estate used in conducting its business, are in violation of
and repugnant to the Federal Constitution and void."
The constitution of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, adopted
after the passage of the Hewitt law, made provision for the
enactment of laws for the taxation of the property of banks.
Passed under the authority of these constitutional provisions,
the act of November 11, 1892, referred to in the decree of the
Federal Circuit Court of 1898, is the legislation subsequent to
the Hewitt law under which it is sought to assess and collect
taxes involved in the present suit. If this decree is to be given

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

force and effect, as having adjudicated the Hewitt law to be a
binding contract covering the right to tax the bank, there can
be no question that this subsequent legislation is violative of
the constitutional inhibition against the States from enacting
laws impairing the obligation of contracts. This legislation
is in absolute conffict with the Hewitt law. Citizens' Savings
Bank of Owensboro v. Owensboro, 173 U. S. 636. The decree
declares in terms, as direct and specific as it is possible to make
them, that the act now soteght to be enforced in the assessment
and collection of taxes is in violation of the Federal Constitution, and therefore void.
The judgment of the state court upon which the decree of
the Federal court is predicated was equally broad in its terms,
and covered not only the particular years of assessment then
in question but the broader right of the parties to be protected
under the Federal Constitution against state enactments in
violation of the contract provision of that instrument.
It is urged that the state judgment upon which the Federal
decree of 1898 is based was afterward reversed by the highest
court of Kentucky, and, therefore, the foundation of the decree
has been removed and the decree itself must fall. But is this
argument sound? When a plea of res judicata is interposed
based upon a former judgment between the parties, the question is not what were the reasons upon which the judgment
proceeded, but what was the judgment itself, was it within the
jurisdiction of the court, between the same parties, and is it
still in force and effect? The doctrine of estoppel by judgment
is founded upon the proposition that all controversies and contentions involved are set at rest by a judgment or decree lawfully rendered which in its terms embodied a settlement of the
rights of the parties. It would undermine the foundation of
the principle upon which it is based if the court might inquire
into and revise the reasons which led the court to make the
judgment. In such case, nothing would be set at rest by the
decree; but the matter supposed to be finally adjudicated, and
concerning which the parties had had their day in court, could

DEPOSIT BANK v. FRANKFORT.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

be reopened and examined, and if the reasonr stated were in
the judgnent of the court before which the estoppel is pleaded
insufficient, a new judgment could be rendered because of
these divergent views and the whole matter would be at large.
In other words, nothing would be settled, and the judgment,
unreversed, instead of having the effect of forever settling the
rights of the parties, would be but an idle ceremony. We are
unable to find reason or authority supporting the proposition
that because a judgment may have been given for wrong reasons or has been subsequently reversed, that it is any the less
effective as an estoppel between the parties while in force. In
Crescent City Live Stock Co. v. Butchers' Union Slaughter House
Co., 120 U. S. 141, the question of what effect should be
given to a decision of a court of the United States as proof of
probable cause in a suit for a prosecution which was alleged to
be malicious was before the court. It appeared that the judgment relied upon had been subsequently reversed, and it was
held that this made no difference unless it was shown that the
judgment was obtained by means of fraud.. Mr. Justice Matthews, delivering the opinion of the court, said:
"Its integrity, its validity, and its effect are complete in all
respects between all parties in every suit and in every forum
where it is legitimately produced as the foundation of an action,
or of a defence, either by plea or in proof, as it would be in any
other circumstances. While it remains in force it determines
the rights of the parties between themselves, and may be carried into execution in due course of law to its full extent,
furnishing a complete protection to all who act in compliance
with its mandate, and even after reversal it still remains, as in
the case of every other judgment or decree in like circumstances,
sufficient evidence in favor of the plaintiff who instituted the
suit or action in which it is rendered, when sued for a malicious
prosecution, that he had probable cause for his proceeding."
The precise question was before the Court of Appeals of New
York in Parkhurstv. Berdell, 110 N. Y. 386, in which case a
judgment was relied upon as an estoppel in a suit between the

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

same parties. The first suit settled certain matters in controversy in the second suit, and was given force and effect as
an estoppel, but was afterward reversed by the appellate court.
The second suit, in which it was relied upon, came before the
Court of Appeals, and it was claimed that the reversal of the
judgment in the first suit would avoid its force as an estoppel
between the parties. The court said (p. 392):
"If the judgment roll was competent evidence when received,
its reception was not rendered erroneous by the subsequent
reversal of the judgment. Notwithstanding its reversal, it
continued in this action to have the same effect to which it was
entitled when received in evidence. The only relief a party
against whom a judgment which has been subsequently reversed has thus been received in evidence can have, is to move
on that fact in the court of original jurisdiction for a new trial
and then the court can, in the exercise of its discretion, grant
or refuse a new trial, as justice may require."
It is to be remembered that we are not dealing with the right
of the parties to get relief from the original judgment by bill of
review or other process in the Federal court in which it was
rendered. There the court may reconsider and set aside or
modify its judgment upon seasonable application. In every
other forum the reasons for passing the decree are wholly immaterial and the subsequent reversal of the judgment upon
which it is predicated can have no other effect than to authorize the party aggrieved to move in some proper proceeding, in
the court of its rendition, to modify it or set it aside. It cannot
be attacked collaterally, and in every other court must be given
full force and effect, irrespective of the reasons upon which it
is based. Cooley on Const. Limitations, 7th ed. 83 et seg., and
cases cited.
Again, it is urged that the taxes herein involved are those for
different years than were under consideration and covered by
the decree of the Federal court relied upon. The vice of this
argument consists in assuming that the taxes for specific years
were alone involved and covered by the decree of the court.

DEPOSIT BANK v. FRANKFORT.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The controversy was as to the force and effect of the Hewitt
law as a contract; not for one year but for all years; not for one
assessment, but for all assessments of taxes upon certain property of the bank. The contest was over the contract, and the
consequent want of power to collect any and all taxes the assessment of which did violence to the contract rights of the
bank. The court had jurisdiction of the parties and of the
subject matter of the suit, and it was adjudicated that there
was a contract which was entitled to protection against impairment by state legislation within the right guaranteed by the
Federal Constitution. This adjudication necessarily included
not only the taxes for specific years, but foreclosed the right
to collect any taxes concerning which the contract afforded
immunity to the bank. That a bank charter and laws having
the effect of bank charters may constitute valid and binding
contracts conclusive between the parties, is now so well settled
by the adjudications of this court as not to be open to discussion. New Orleans v. Citizens Bank, 167 U. S. 371. In'that
case it was held that a judgment of the District Court of New
Orleans, holding the charter of a bank to constitute a binding
and conclusive contract between the parties, although involving
the taxes of other years than those in suit, was res judicata and
conclusive between the parties. In the course of the opinion,
Mr. Justice White said:
"The proposition that because a suit for a tax of one year is
a different demand from the suit for a tax for another, therefore
res judicatacannot apply, whilst admitting in form the principle
of the thing adjudged, in reality substantially denies and destroys it. The estoppel resulting from the thing adjudged does
not depend upon whether there is the same demand in both
cases, but exists, even though there be different demands, when
the question upon which the recovery of the second demand
depends has under identical circumstances and conditions been
previously concluded by a judgment between the parties or
their privies. This is the elemental rule, stated in the text
books and enforced by many decisions of this cowy.
voL. Oxc-33

OCTOBER TERI, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

"It follows, then, that the mere fact that the demand in this
case is for a tax for one year, and the demands in the adjudged
cases were for taxes for other years, does not prevent the
operation of the thing adjudged, if, in the prior cases, the question of exemption was necessarily presented and determined
upon identically the same facts upon which the right of exemption is now claimed."
This case is cited with approval in Southern Pacific R. R. Co.
v. United States, 168 U.S.1, in which the decisions of this court
upon the subject of res Judicata axe reviewed by Mr. Justice
Harlan and the general doctrine thus stated:
"A right, question or fact distinctly put in issue and directly
determined by a court of competent jurisdiction, as a ground
of recovery, cannot be disputed in a subsequent suit between
the same parties or their privies; and even if the second suit is
for a different cause of action, the right, question or fact, once
so determined must, as between the same parties or their
privies, be taken as conclusively established, so long as the
judgment in the first suit remains unmodified."
The thing established by the Federal decree relied upon here
was the binding and conclusive character of the contract embodied in the Hewitt law and its acceptance. That it was such
a contract was then adjudicated, and, irrespective of the reasons
given for the decision, must remain concluded until the judgment constituting such adjudication is modified or reversed.
But it is said that the question here is simply what force and
effect the state court should give to the decree of the Federal
court relied upon. It is argued that there should be given to a
Federal judgment the same force and effect that the state court
gives to a judgment of a court of the State, in which the Federal
judgment is relied upon, neither more nor less. Cases are cited
from the Kentucky Court of Appeals which may be said to
establish that an adjudication concerning taxes for one year
cannot be pleaded as an estoppel in suits in that State involving
the taxes of other years. It is true that for some purposes and
within certain limits it is only required that the judgments of

DEPOSrr BANK v. FRANKFORT.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the courts of the United States shall be given the same force
and effect as are given the judgments of the courts of the States
wherein they are rendered; but it is equally true that whether
a Federal judgment has been given due force and effect in the
state court is a Federal question reviewable by this court,
which will determine for itself whether such judgment has been
given due weight or otherwise. Crescent City Live Stock Co. v.
Butchers' Union Slaughter Co., supra; Pittsburgh R. R. Co. v.
Loan & Trust Co., 172 U. S.493. In the latter case, Mr. Justice
Harlan, after reviewing the casesupon this subject, thus states
his conclusion:
"According to these decisions and in view of the statute
giving this court authority to reexamine the final judgment of
the highest court of a State denying a right specially set up or
claimed under an authority exercised under the United States,
it is clear that we have jurisdiction to inquire whether due
effect was accorded to the foreclosure proceedings in the Circuit Courts of the United States under which the plaintiff in
error claims title to the lands and property in question."
When is the state court obliged to give to Federal judgments
only the force and effect it gives to state court judgments
within its own jurisdiction? Such cases are distinctly pointed
out in the opinion of Mr. Justice Bradley in Dupasseur v.
Rochereau, 21 Wall. 130, where the learned justice says:
"The only effect that can be justly claimed for the judgment
in the Circuit Court of the United States, is such aswould belong
to judgments of the state courts rendered under similar circumstances. Dupasseur and Co. were citizens of France, and
brought the suit in the Circuit Court of the United States as
such citizens; and, consequently, that court, deriving its jurisdiction solely from the citizenship of the parties, was in the
exercise of jurisdiction to administer the laws of the State, and
its proceedings were had in accordance with the forms and
course of proceeding in the state courts. It is apparent, therefore, that no higher sanctity or effect can be claimed for the
judgment of the Circuit Court of the United States rendered

OCTOBER TERML, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

in such a case under such circumstances than is due to the
judgments of the state courts in a like case and under similar
circumstances."
The cases which, by clear inference, cannot come within this
class are to be noticed.
When it was said that no higher sanctity or effect can be
given to a judgment of the Circuit Court of the United States
than to state judgments, the learned judge is careful to say
"in like case under similar circumstances." What are these
cases? Manifestly those just stated, wherein the court derives
its jurisdiction from the citizenship of the parties and in the
exercise of the jurisdiction to administer the laws of the State
where the proceedings are had. Where language has been used
in other cases to the effect that judgments of the Federal courts
are to be given the effect given to domestic judgments, they
will be found to be cases where questions of general law are
under consideration, and coming within the class suggested
by Justice Bradley in the opinion quoted. Such is the case
of Crescent City Live Stock Co. v. Butclers' Union Slaughter
House Co., 120 U. S.141. It was there held that a judgment
of the United States court, relied upon as a ground of probable
cause in a suit for malicious prosecution, was to be given the
same force and effect as judgments in the state courts. But
Mr. Justice Matthews, delivering the opinion, was careful to
add:
"Whatever deference may be due to the decisions of the
state court of final resort in every case in which it has spoken,
and whatever may be the respect to which its decisions upon
questions of purely local law established as rules of property
may be entitled, they are not authority binding upon the
courts of the United States, sitting even in the same State,
where the questions involved and decided relate to rights arising under the Constitution and laws of the United States."
In Embry v. Palmer,107 U. S. 3, it was held that the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia is a court of the United States
and its judgments conclusive in the courts of a State except for

DEPOSIT BANK v. FRANKFORT.
191 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

such cause as would be sufficient to set it aside in the courts of
the District.
Mr. Justice Matthews, who delivered the opinion, again
stated the doctrine that the judgments of the courts of the
United States are upon the same footing so far as concerns the
obligation created by them with judgments of the States.
Other cases are found in the reports stating the general proposition.
In Union & Planters' Bank v. Memphis, 189 U. S. 71, the
question was as to the effect to be given to a state judgment as
res judicata. It was held that the Federal courts were not
required to give such domestic judgments any greater force
and effect than was awarded them by the courts of the State
where rendered.
But it is equally well settled that a right claimed under the
Federal Constitution, finally adjudicated in the Federal courts,
can never be taken away or impaired by state decisions. The
same reasoning which permits to the States the right of final
adjudication upon purely state questions requires no less respect for the final decisions of the Federal courts of questions
of national authority and jurisdiction.
This principle is now so thoroughly settled as to need but to
be stated. It has been reiterated in a line of decisions following
the great judgment of Chief Justice Marshall in Cohens v.
Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264, in which the principle was firmly
established. As early as Ohio Life Insurance & Trust Co. v.
Debolt, 16 How. 416, 432, Chief Justice Taney said:
"Indeed, the duty imposed upon this court to enforce contracts honestly and legally made, would be vain and nugatory,
if we were bound to follow those changes in judicial decisions
which the lapse of time and the change in judicial officers will
often produce. The writ of error to a state court would be no
protection to a contract, if we were bound to follow the judgment which the state court had given, and which the writ
of error brings up fok revision here." McCullough v. Virginia, 172 U. S. 102; Jefferson Branch Bank v. Skelly, 1

OCTOBER TERH, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

Black, 436; Douglas v. Kentucky, 168 U. S. 488, 501, and cases
cited.
In the last named case, Mr. Justice Harlan, delivering the
opinion, deals with the question as follows:
"The defendant insists that his rights having been acquired
when these decisions of the highest court of Kentucky were in
full force, should be protected according to the law of the State
as it was adjudged to be when those rights attached. But is
this court required to accept the principles announced by the
state court as to the extent to which the contract clause of the
Federal Constitution restricts the powers of the state legislatures? Clearly not. The defendant invokes the jurisdiction
of this court upon the ground that the rights denied to him by
the final judgment of the highest court of Kentucky, and which
the state seeks to prevent him from exercising, were acquired
under an agreement that constituted a contract within the
meaning of the Federal Constitution. This contention is disputed by the State. So that the issue presented makes it
necessary to enquire whether that which the defendant asserts
to be a contract was a contract of the class to which the Constitution of the United States refers. This court must deterniine-indeed, it cannot consistently with its duty refuse to
determine-upon its own responsibility, in each case as it arises,
whether that which a party seeks to have protected under the
contract clause of the Constitution of the United States is a
contract the obligation of which is protected by that instrument against hostile state legislation." Mobile & Ohio Railroad
v. Tennessee, 153 U. S. 486; Knox County v. Ninth National
Uank, 147 U. S. 91; McGahey v. Virginia, 135 U. S. 662.
These cases thoroughly established the proposition that in
no other way can the obligation of the Federal courts under
the Constitution be discharged than by rigidly adhering to the
right and duty to maintain the ultimate right of the Federal
courts to protect the citizens of the United States, and of every
State, in the enjoyment of rights and pfrivileges guaranteed by
the Federal Constitution.

DEPOSIT BANK v. FRANKFORT.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

We suppose there is no question that if the state court had
refused to give effect to the Hewitt law as a binding contract,
and that question were presented here upon writ of error, and
this court reached a different conclusion, holding the Hewitt
law to constitute a contract, the judgment of the state court
would be reversed for the denial of the right claimed under the
Federal Constitution. In the present case we are asked to go
further and sustain the judgment of the state court in the face
of a judgment of a Federal Circuit Court, affirmed in this court,
and duly invoked for the protection of the party in whose favor
it was rendered in an action between the same parties. In
Des Moines Navigation & Railroad Co. v. Iowa Homestead Co.,
123 U. S. 552, a suit was brought in an Iowa court by the
Homestead Company to recover taxes for the years 1864 to
1871. The right to recover the same taxes had been litigated
between the same parties and decided adversely to the Homestead Company in the case of Homestead Co. v. Valley R. R., 17
Wall. 153. The railroad company set up the decree in its favor
as a bar to the action. The Homestead Company replied:
"That the decree or judgment referred to is null and void, for
the reason that the courts of the United States had no jurisdiction of said suit, and no legal power or authority to render
said decree or judgment." The Supreme Court of Iowa held
that the question of prior adjudication had not been properly
raised before it, and decided the case without considering the
point. This court held that the point was duly made and that
the Federal court had jurisdiction in the suit relied upon, and
decided in 17 Wallace; and held further that the Supreme Court
of Iowa, in refusing to give effect to the prior judgment as an
estoppel, had denied to the Navigation Company the Federal
right set up. In delivering the opinion, Mr. Chief Justice
'Waite said:
"As the Circuit Court entertained the suit, and this court, on
appeal, impliedly recognized its right to do so, and proceeded
to dispose of the case finally on its merits, certainly our decree cannot, in the light of prior adjudications on the same

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

general question, be deemed a nullity. It was, at the time of
the trial in the present case in the court below, a valid and subsisting prior adjudication of the matters in controversy, binding
on these parties, and a bar to this action. In refusing so to
decide, the court failed to give full faith and credit to the decree
of this court under which the Navigation and Railroad Company claimed an immunity from all liability to the Homestead
Company on account of the taxes sued for, and this was error."
This reasoning is applicable here. The decree of the Federal
court of 1898 gave judgment that the bank had a contract absolving it from all taxes, including those sued for. When the
state court refused to give that judgment effect it denied a
right secured by the Federal court judgment upon matters
wherein its decision was final until reversed in an appellate
court, or modified or set aside in the court of its rendition.
In our judgment the adjudication of the Federal court relied
upon here, although based upon the judgment of a state court
given as a reason therefor, is equally effectual as it would have
been had the Federal court reached the conclusion, as upon
the original question, that the Hewitt law constituted a binding contract between the parties. Any other conclusion strikes
down the very foundation of the doctrine of res judicata, and
permits the state court to deprive a party of the benefit of its
most important principle, and is a virtual abandonment of the
final power of the Federal courts to protect all who come before
them relying upon rights guaranteed by the Federal Constitution and established by the judgments of the Federal courts.
It is true that the final determination of the courts that the
Hewitt law did not constitute a contract, and the reversal of
the state court judgment which was the basis of the decree in
the Federal court, renders this case one where a court might
wish to avoid the application of rules which may seem technical. But the protection of the right of parties as well as the
interest of the public to end litigation by a final judgment, and
to preserve inviolate the safeguards of the Federal Constitution,
should never be overlooked in view of the hardship of particular

DEPOSIT BANK v. FRANKFORT.
191 U. S. FUIwzR, CH. J., BREWER, BRoWN and PECMHAM, JJ., dissenting.

cases. Ahd we repeat that we are not dealing with any right
of relief which the State may have in the Federal court wherein
the original decree was rendered.
Judgmentreversed and causeremanded.
MR. CHIEF JuSTICE FULLER, with whom concurred MR.
JUSTICE BREWER, MR. JUSTICE BROWN and MR. JUSTICE
PECKHAM,

dissenting:

This was a petition in equity filed by defendant in error in
the Circuit Court of Franklin County, Kentucky, seeking the
recovery of certain taxes for the years 1893 and 1894, penalties
and interest. To revise the judgment of the Court of Appeals
of Kentucky rendered November 19, 1901, this writ of error
was sued out, and the question is whether that court erred in
declining to direct the Franklin Circuit Court to sustain a plea
of former adjudication by the decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States rendered June 25, 1898, in enforcement of a
decree of the Franklin Circuit Court rendered in the same case
February 1, 1896, and which was reversed by the state Court
of Appeals, June 19, 1900.
The plea or supplemental answer was filed in the Franklin
Circuit Court, February 1, 1901, on the remanding of the case
to that court. The case went off on other points, but, being
again carried to the Court of Appeals, it was held that as the
taxes involved in this case were those for 1893 and 1894, and
those involved in the case in the United States court were the
taxes for 1895, 1896, 1897 and 1898, and as it was the settled
law of Kentucky that an adjudication in respect of the taxes
of one year was not a bar to recovery in litigation in respect of
the taxes of another year, the decree of the United States
Circuit Court, based on the reversed decree in this case, could
not be treated as a bar to the collection of the taxes for 1893
and 1894, on the view that the thing adjudged was the existence
of a contract created by the Hewitt law, which exempted
the banks from liability for such taxes during the lifetime of

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
FuLLER, O. J., BnEwzR, BRoWN and PECKHAM, JJ., dissenting. 191 U. S.

their charters; and that to decide otherwise would be to hold
that the prior decree in this case, though reversed, was nevertheless made binding by the decree of another jurisdiction
rested upon it, as having determined the invalidity of taxes of
other years, notwithstanding the law of the State to the contrary.
And the Court of Appeals was fortified in its conclusion by
the fact that the Supreme Court of the United States, the Court
of Appeals, and the Circuit Court of the United States in opinions delivered at the time of the rendition of the decree in
question, had all held that the Hewitt law did not constitute
an irrevocable contract.
The case before us stands in the same situation as if the
Franklin Circuit Court had overruled the plea of former adjudication and rendered decree for complainant, and the Court
of Appeals had thereupon affirmed that decree; and it seems
to me that the Franklin Circuit Court could not have done
otherwise in view of the law of the State in respect of litigation
as to taxes of different years.
Moreover there is a distinction between estoppel by decree
and estoppel by the findings on which the decree rests, in that
the one operates as a bar to subsequent suits on the same cause
of action, and the other to further litigation of the particular
issuable facts found.
And I submit that the thing adjudged by the Circuit Court
of the United States was not that the Hewitt law constituted
a contract between the State and the banks, which exempted
the banks from this taxation, but was that the Board of Councilmen was estopped to deny the alleged contract because of
the decree of the Franklin Circuit Court. This is explicitly
stated in the decree as the ground of the decree, and the decree
could have rested on no other ground, as the suit was in effect
a suit to enforce the state court decree, and, conceding the
potency attributed to the doctrine of res judicata, the Circuit
Court of the United States could not have exercised an original
judgment on the question of contract or not, but was con-

DEPOSIT BANK v. FRANKFORT.
191 U. B. FvLLaR,

CH.

T., Bnnwzn, BRowN and P.CAM, X3., dissenting.

pelled to accept the existence of the contract as "established"
by the decree of the Franklin Circuit Court.
I think it follows that when a decree rests on the establishment by a prior decree of a certain conclusion of law, such
ground of the prior decree cannot be treated as merely reasons
for the later decree, which as mere reasons may be ignored; and
that this must necessarily be so when the court rendering the
later decree is shut up to the single question of estoppel. This
being so, I differ entirely from the view that the controversy
in the Federal court was at large as to the force and effect of
the Hewitt law as a contract exemptingthe banks from taxation
not only for the specified years but for all other years. The
decree cannot be treated as giving to the Franklin Circuit
decree a wider scope than the law of the State allowed, and
the law of the State was that the doctrine of res judicatais not
applicable to taxes for years other than those under consideration in the particular case. See Union &c. Bank v. Memphis,
189 U. S. 71, 75, and cases cited.
It is true that the decree of the United States Circuit Court
enjoined the taxes involved in that suit, and also the taxes for
subsequent years, but this was upon the express ground that
the decree of the state Circuit Court had established a contract
of exemption during the corporate existence of the bank; and
whatever the terms of the latter decree, the state law permitted
a renewal of the controversy in respect of taxes not, directly
involved. To apply the Federal decree to any other than the
taxes enumerated is to hold that matters of public law can be
placed by estoppel beyond the power of reconsideration, a
doctrine not heretofore favored by this court. Boyd v. Alabama, 94 U. S. 645; Browmsville v. Loague, 129 U. S. 493;
O'Brien v. Wheelock, 184 U. S. 450.
It is the duty of the state courts as well as of the Federal
courts to see to it that no act of a state legislature impairing the
obligation of a contract is sustained, and it is the duty of the
Federal courts as well as of the state courts to see to it that no
act of a state legislature is avoided on the pretext of impair-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
FuumR, CH. J., BRzwzR, BRoWw and fEcmiAu, JJ., dissenting. 191 U. S.

ment of the obligations of a contract, when in fact there is no
contract to impair. Here this court and the highest court of
the state of Kentucky agree that there is no contract, and yet
a valid law of Kentucky is overthrown on the pretence of a
contract which confessedly has no existence. The reason given
is that the Federal court once held that there was a contract
when in truth that court held that there was no contract, but
that defendant in error was estopped to assert that fact by
reason of a judgment of the state court, which has since been
duly vacated. The decision is, therefore, not based upon any
provision of the Federal Constitution, but upon a rule of general
law as to the conclusiveness of a judgment. But that rule of
general law is, like any other, subject to modification or change
by the State, and it is as true of Kentucky as of Tennessee that
the rule of res judicata as applied to taxes does not embrace
other taxes than those immediately in litigation. Repeated
decisions of this court are that a Federal judgment is entitled
to the same consideration as a state judgment, "no more and
no less," and we held in Union Bank v. Memphis that what
effect a judgment of a state court shall have as res judicatais
a question of state law.
In my judgment the state courts in rendering decree for the
taxes of 1893 and 1894 did not refuse to give the Federal decree
such effect as it was entitled to.
Of course, I express no opinion as to the taxes for 1895, 1896,
1897 and 1898, the immediate subject of the bill in the United
States court. The situation of that case is peculiar. The
decree of that court was affirmed in this court on appeal by
an equal division, May 15, 1899. 174 U. S. 800. Leave was
subsequently granted by this court to appellants to apply to
the Circuit Court for leave to file such bill as counsel might be
advised. The present defendant in error (appellant there)
accordingly applied to that court for leave to file a bill of review, which was denied. 120 Fed. Rep. 165. The case was
then carried to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, and that court affirmed the order of the Circuit Court.

DEPOSIT BANK v. FRANKFORT.
191 U. S. FuLiaR, CH. J., BREWER, BROWN aud PE

AM,

JJ., dissenting.

124 Fed. Rep. 18. The court stated that the judgment of the
Franklin Circuit Court rested on a former decision of the Court
of Appeals of Kentucky holding the revenue act of 1892 void
as an impairment of the state's contract with the banks, and
that, after the decree of the United States Circuit Court, the
Court of Appeals of Kentucky overruled its former decision;
and the United States Court of Appeals then held that the
consequent reversal of the Franklin Circuit judgment furnished
no adequate ground for the revision of the decree of the United
States Circuit Court.
The prior decision of the Court of Appeals of Kentucky was
rendered June 1, 1895, and is.reported 97 Kentucky, 590.
That decision was overruled by a decision rendered March 24,
1897, and reported 19 Ky. L. Rep. 248. The decree of the
Circuit Court of the United States was rendered June 25, 1898.
There were many cases under consideration in the state Court
of Appeals, and it happened that the decree of the Franklin
Circuit Court was not in fact reversed until June 19, 1900. But
as the ground on which that decree rested had been swept
away in 1897, the Circuit Court of the United States might
well have applied the rule laid down by Lord Redesdale, that
where a party comes into a court of equity to have the benefit
of a former decree, the court is at liberty to inquire whether
the circumstances justified the relief. Mitf. Pl. 96; 138 U. S.
552, 561. This was not done, and the Federal decree has not,
as yet, been set aside.
But Lord Redesdale's rule is applicable in this case, and that
is in itself sufficient to require the affirmance of the judgment
of the Court of Appeals of Kentucky.
My Brothers Bn.wER, Bnoww and PECKHAm concur in this
dissent.

