OASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1903,

THE SOUTHWARK.
CERTIORARI

TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

THIRD CIRCUIT.

Io. 12. Argued March 3,1903.-Decided October 19,1903.
Before the passage of the Harter Act, 27 Stat. 445, there was, in the absence of special'contract, an absolute warranty, on the part of the ship.
owner, which did not depend upon his knowledge or diligence, that the
vessel was seaworthy at the beginning of the voyage.
Seaworthiness of aves~el engaged in the dressed meat trade relates and
extends to the refrigerating apparatus necessary for the preservation of
the meat during transportation.
The Harter Act expressly prohibits the insertion in bills of lading of any
covenant or agreement lessening, weakening or avoiding the obligation
of the owner to use due diligence to make the vessel seaworthy and
capable of performing her intended voyage. The "dressed beef
clause" inserted in bills of lading of a vessel engaged in that trade
releasing the vessel from damages even though caused by defects in the
refrigerating apparatus, whether existing at or prior to the commencement of the voyage is in violation of this provision of the Harter Act
and will not relieve the vessel from such liability in the absence of
proof that the owner has used due diligence at the commencement of
the voyage to make the vessel including the refrigerating apparatus
reasonably fit for the purposes and uses for which it is intended and,
thus seaworthy.
The burden of proof as to the seaworthiness of the vessel at the time of
sailing is on the owner. The sudden breakdown of the refrigerating

VOL. OXc-1

1

2

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

191 U. S.

apparatus within three hours of sailing raises a presumption of unseaworthiness at the time of sailing, independently of the Harter Act.

THis case originated in a libel in rem filed in the District
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, to recover for the loss of a quantity of dressed beef,
shipped by the libellants on the steamer Southwark, a vessel
belonging to the respondent, the International Navigation
Company. The meat was required to be kept chilled during the passage, and the ship was engaged in the business of
carrying such freight and was fitted with a refrigerating apparatus for the purpose. The meat was received under a
bill of lading acknowledging the receipt thereof in apparent
good order and condition, and undertaking to deliver the
same at Liverpool in like good order and condition. Across
the bill of lading there was this printed stipulation: "It is
expressly provided that the goods shipped hereunder are absolutely at the risk of the owners in every respect, and that
the carrier is responsible for no loss, delay or damage thereto,
however arising, including stowage, and all risks of breakdown or injury, however caused, whether to its refrigerator
or its machinery, even though arising from defect existing at
or previous to the commencement of the voyage; also that
in case of the meat becoming, from any cause, in the opinion
of the master of the vessel, putrid, dangerous or offensive to
the passengers or the crew, it may be thrown overboard or
otherwise disposed of without liability to the carrier for the
consequent loss."
Upon the arrival of the ship at Liverpool the meat was
found to be in bad condition, mouldy and slimy, resulting
in a considerable loss to the shipper. The libel seeks a recovery because the refrigerating apparatus was out of repair
at the time of sailing and was not repaired during the voyage,
so that the temperature of the compartment in which the
meat was carried could not be reduced to the proper degree
for its safe transportation.
The answer aver that the Southwark left Philadelphia with

-

191 U. S.

THE SOUTHWARK.
Argument for Petitioners.

the refrigerating apparatus in perfect order after due inspection, and all necessary repairs were duly and promptly made
while on the voyage.
Upon hearing in the District Court, a decree was entered
exonerating the vessel from fault, which decree was affirmed
in the Circuit Court of Appeals. 104 Fed Rep. 103; 48 C. C.
A. 123.
.X?- John F. Lewis, with whom Mr. H. I. Cheney was on
the brief, for the petitioners:
I. Respondent was guilty of negligence in receiving a cargo of
fresh meat and starting upon a transatlantic voyage in mid-'
summer, with the refrigerating machinery in so manifestly unfit a condition, that working for a sufficient time and under
such conditions that an efficient machine would have reduced
the temperature of the brine to at least 20 ° , it was only able
to reduce the brine temperature to 400, a figure so high, that
it was impossible to obtain even an approximation towards the
proper degree in the compartment absolutely necessary for the
safe carriage of the meat.
I. The "dressed meat clause" of the bill of lading did not
wipe out all warranty of the initial fitness of the ship to receive the cargo, and of the refrigerating machinery to preserve
it. The Afaoi-i .ing, 8 Asp. far. 0. 65 L. R. 1895; 2 Q. B.
D. 550, approved in The Prusia, 93 Fed. Rep. 837. See
also The Silvia, 171 U. S. 462 ; The Caledonia, 157 U. S. 124;
The Carib Prince,170 U. S. 659; Steele v. State Line, L. R. 3
App. Cas. 72.
III. The Harter Act applies to bills of lading issued for fresh
meat. The law has been understood to be that there is a
warranty of the initial fitness of the vessel in all respects to
carry the cargo received. Queendland NVat. B. v. P'. & 0.
Stn. .Nav. Co., L. R. 1898, 1 Q. B. 567; Tatersall v. -Yat. S.
S.Co., L. R. 12 0. B. Div. 297.
The test of seaworthiness is whether the vessel is reasonably
fit to carry the cargo which she has undertaken to transport.
This is the commonly accepted definition of seaworthiness.
The G. R. Booth, 171 U. S. 450; The Eensington, 183 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Appellee.

191 U. S.

263 ; Knott v. Botany Millk, 179 U. S. 71 ; 1?owson v. Atlantic Yr. Co., L. R. 1903, K. B. iDiv. 114.
IV. The burden of proof rests on the respondents. Inter.
Nav. Co. v. Farr& Bailey, etc., 181 U. S. 218 ; The Prussia,93
Fed. Rep. 837; The .Afanitm&, 116 Fed. Rep. 61; The 0. w
Ephlcke, 117 Fed. Rep. 279.
V. The simple inspection was not due diligence. The Edwin I. Momrison, 153 U. S. 215; The Aggi, 93 Fed. Rep. 484;
The Phenicia, 90 Fed Rep. 116; Switzerland Ins. Co. v.
Flamborough,69 Fed. Rep. 4:70.
Where a vessel soon after leaving port becomes leaky with-outstress of weather or adequate cause of injury, the presumption is that she was unseaworthy before sailing. Ceballos v.
WarrenAdams, 74 Fed. Rep. 413 ; S. C., certiorari denied, 163
U. S. 679; Higgie v. American Lloyds, 14 Fed. Rep. 143, 147;
The Gulnare,42 Fed. Rep. 861; Work v. Leathers, 97 U. S.
379; The Planter, 2 Woods, 490, Fed. Cas. No. 11,207a;
Cort v. Iurance Co., 2 Wash. 0. C. 375, Fed. Cas. No.
3257; Walhs v. Insurance Co., 32 N. Y. 427, 436; Pacific
Coast S. S. Company v. Baneroft- Thitney Company, 4 Fed.
Rep. 196.
Mr. N. Dubois Miller, with whom MAr. .toward H. Yocum,
Mr. J. Bodman Paul and Messrs. Biddle & Ward were on
the brief, for appellee:
The concurrent findings of the lower courts that the vessel
was fitted with proper refrigerating machinery, duly inspected
(i. e., there had been due diligence); that the rotting of the
meat was due to the breakdowns of the refrigerating machinery
after sailing and not to any condition of temperature or of the
machinery at the time of sailing; and that there was no sufficient evidence of negligence on the part of the vessel, will not,
under the settled rule of this court, be disturbed. Morewood v.
Eneguist, 23 Hlow. 495; The .Mareellus, 1 Black, 417; The
Hypodame, 6 Wall. 223; The Richmond, 104 U. S. 543 ; Alexanderv. 3fachan, 147 U. S. 72; Handy v. United States, 143
U. S. 513; Packer v. Lighterage Co., 140 U. S. 360; Rae v.
The Eclipse, 135 U. S. 599; The Gazelle, 128 U. S. 474; The

THE SOUTHWARK.
191 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

Maggie .1. Smith v. Walker, 123 U. S. 349; Act of April 16,1875,
c. 77; The Carib Prince, 170 U. S. 658.
The dressed meat clause protected the owner of the vessel,
and the exemptions for liability as to the refrigerating apparatus are valid under the Harter Act. The Pu &ia, 93 Fed.
Rep. 837; Savage v. Burnham, 1 N. Y. 561. This is especially so as to damages from putrefaction. Hutchinson on Carriers, § 768a ; Carver on Carriers, § 12; Cargo ex Lrte, L.
R. 12 Pro. Div. 187; The Carib Prince,170 U. S. 660; The
Caledonia, 157 U. S. 134.
The burden of proof is on the shipper. Clark v. Barnwell,
12 How. 272; Carver on Carriers, § 78; Hutchinson on Carriers, § 767; TranmportationCo. v. Downer, 11 Wall. 129; The
Victory and the Plymoathian,168 U. S. 410; City of Hartford and the Unit, 97 U. S. 323; The Ludwig lloeberg, 157
U. S. 60; The Powhatan, 12 Fed. Rep. 876; The Timor, 67
Fed. Rep. 356; The HIindooctan, 67 Fed. Rep. 794; The Lennox, 90 Fed. Rep. 308; Oil Co. v. Torpedo Co., 190 Pennsylvania, 350.
The Harter Act has been strictly construed by this
court. It has been held that the settled principles of law and
evidence are not changed or restricted by the operation of the
act further than its express terms require. The Irrawaddy,
171 U. S. 187; The Carilb Prince, supra; Carver on Carriers by Sea, 3d ed. § 103c.
The preservation of meat during a voyage, by the creation of an artificial atmosphere, is an undertaking apart from
the duty of a common carrier by sea, and the shipowner's
duty therein is that of a cold storage warehouseman. Wheeler
on Modern Law Carriers, 98; Hutchinson on Carriers, § 768a;
Carver on Carriers, 12; Wharton on Negligence, § 563; .Xyrick
v. Michigan Central,107 U. S. 102; MichiganSouthern &c. v.
. efDonough, 21 Michigan, 165 ; Cragin v. NYew York Cent. 1R.
.R. Co., 51 N. Y. 61; S P. Carr v. Lancaehire& Yorkehire
R. Co.. 7 Exch. 708; York County v. Central R. R., 3
Wall. 107, 112; N. J. Steam -Nay.Co. v. JlerchantW'Bank, 6
How. 344, 382.
A cold storage warehouseman, i. e., a bailee for hire, may

OCTOBER TERMU, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

by contract stipulate for exemption from liability, as in this case
from a breakdown of his plant; at least where no negligence is
shown. And he may thereby place upon the bailor the burden
of proving negligence. Tausig v. Bode & Easlett, 54 L. R.
A. 774 (Cal.); Bolt Co. v. JordanCompany, 25 Ind.App. 314;
Fa'nham v. Camden & Amboy R. Co., 55 Pa. St. 53;
Gray v. Bates, 99 :Massachusetts, 263; Marsh v. Rome, 5 B.
& C. 462; Cochran v. -Dinsmore,49 N. Y. 249 ; Story on Bailments, see. 278.
MR.

JusTicE

DAY, after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
Before the passage of the act of Congress of February 13,
1893, 27 Stat. 445, c. 105; 3 Comp. Stat. U. S.2946, known as
the Harter Act, it was the settled law of this court that, in
the absence of special contract, there was a warranty upon
the part of the ship owner that the ship was seaworthy at the
beginning of her voyage. The warranty was absolute and
did not depend upon the knowledge of the owner or the diligence of his efforts to provide a seaworthy vessel. The Caledonia, 157 U. S. 124; The Edwin I. Morrison, 153 U. S.199;
The Irrawaddy, 171 U. S.187.
After its passage, this act became the rule of law for cases
coming within its terms. In section two it is expressly provided that it shall be unlawful for any vessel transporting
property or merchandise from or between ports of the United
States and foreign ports to insert in any bills of lading or
shipping documents any covenant or agreement whereby the
obligation of the owner to use due diligence to properly equip,
man, provision and outfit said vessel, and to make the vessel
seaworthy and capable of performing her intended voyage,
shall in anywise be lessened, weakened or avoided. In this
connection, Mr..Justice Brown, in speaking of the nature and
origin of this law, in the case of The Delaware, 161 U. S.459,
used this language, p. 471: "The act was an outgrowth of

THE SOUTHWARK.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

attempts made in recent years, to limit, as far as possible,
the liability of the vessel and her owners, by inserting in bills
of lading stipulations against losses arising from unseaworthiness, bad stowage and negligence in navigation, and other
forms of liability which have been held by the courts of England, if not of this country, to be valid as contracts and to be
respected even when they exempted the ship from the consequences of her own negligence. As decisions were made by
the courts from time to time, holding the vessel for nonexcepted liabilities, new clauses were inserted in the bills of
lading to meet these decisions until the common law responsibility of carriers by sea had been frittered away to such
an extent that several of the leading commercial associations,
both in this country and in England, had taken the subject in
hand and suggested amendments to the maritime law in line
with those embodied in the Harter Act." This language no
doubt had reference to the prohibitive provisions of section
two of the act.
Section three must be read with section two to effectuate
the purpose of the act, and shows an intention upon the part
of Congress to relax in certain respects the harshness of the
previous rules of obligation upon ship owners, 'provided the
owner shall exercise due diligence to make the vessel seaworthy in all respects, in which event neither the vessel nor
the owner shall be liable, among other things, for faults of
management or for loss from inherent defect, quality or
vice of the thing carried. Of this feature of the law it was
said by Mr. Justice Shiras, delivering the opinion of the court
in the case of The Irrawaddy, 171 U. S. 187, at pp. 192-193:
"Plainly the main purposes of the act were to relieve the ship
owner from liability for latent defects, not discoverable by
the utmost care and diligence, and, in event that he has exercised due diligence to make his vessel seaworthy, to exempt
him and the ship from responsibility for damage or loss resulting from faults or errors in navigation or management of
the vessel. . . . Although the foundation of the rule that

OCTOBER TERU, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

91 U. S.

forbade ship owners to contract for exemption from liability
for negligence in their agents or employ~s, was in the decisions of the courts that such-contracts were against public
policy, it was, nevertheless, competent for Congress to make
a change in the standard of duty, and it is plainly the duty
of courts to conform in their decisions to the policy so declared."
The effect of this law is not to relieve the owner from the
general duty of furnishing a seaworthy ship, but to limit his
liability in certain particulars and upon the condition named
in the statute. The Carib Prince, 170 U. S. 655. Before the
passage of the act, the initial obligation could be limited in
certain particulars by special contract not involving negligence of the owner. Since the passage of the act, as to cases
coming within its terms, before the owner can have the benefit of the relief provided by section three he must have exercised due diligence to provide a seaworthy vessel capable of
performing her intended voyage. Obviously, a cargo of
dressed beef to be shipped a long distance is one which, from
the inherent quality of the thing carried, is liable to loss, unless properly stowed in rooms artificially chilled for the purpose of preserving it.
We proceed to inquire whether the furnishing of a refrigerating apparatus in good order and repair, competent for the purpose required, was within the obligation imposed by the Harter
Act as a condition precedent to the enjoyment of the benefits
of the act in limiting the owner's liability as provided therein.
Bouvier's Law Dictionary defines "seaworthiness" to be:
"In maritime law, the sufficiency of the vessel in materials,
construction, equipment, officers, men and outfit for the trade
or service in which it is employed." And the same author
further says: "It can never be settled by positive rules of law
how far this obligation of seaworthiness extends in any particular case, for the reason that improvements and changes
in the means and modes of navigation frequently require new
implements, or new forms of old ones; and these, though not

THE SOUTHWARI.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

necessary at first, become so when there is an established
usage that all ships of a certain quality, or those to be sent on
certain voyages or used for certain purposes, shall have them."
In the case of The Sylvia, 171 U. S. 462, Mr. Justice Gray said:
"The test of seaworthiness is whether the vessel is reasonably
fit to carry the cargo which she has undertaken to transport."
This is the commonly accepted definition of seaworthiness.
As seaworthiness depends not only upon the vessel being
staunch and fit to meet the perils of the sea, but upon its
character in reference to the particular cargo to be transported, it follows that a vessel must be able to transport the
cargo which it is held out as fit to carry or it is not seaworthy
in that respect. But for the special appliances furnished by
the vessel, perishable cargoes, such as dressed beef, could not
be shipped on long voyages in hot weather.
The trade of shipping dressed beef abroad has grown constantly in volume, until it has become a most important part
of our foreign commerce. For the purpose of properly discharging the duties involved in such transportation, vessels
provided with refrigerating apparatus have been put into
service and compete with others for this branch of the carrying trade. The owners of such vessels hold them out to
shippers and invite their trade upon the representation, actual
or implied, that the apparatus provided is fit to receive and
carry the meat in proper condition to its destination. For
this service freight charges are doubtless made commensurate
with the advantage furnished. The shipper has no control
over the apparatus. It is under the supervision and care of
the vessel owner, inspected and operated by those in his employ. This view is sustained by the English as well as by
the American authorities. Maclachlan on the Law of Merchant Shipping, 4th ed. 430, quotes from Stanton v. Richardson, L. R. 7 0. P. 421, Brett, J.: "It seems to me that the
obligation of the ship owner is to supply a ship that is seaworthy in relation to the cargo which he has undertaken to
carry. I do not think, however, that this proposition com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

pletely expresses his liability, though the proposition I am
about to state with regard to such liability in many cases
may amount to the same thing only in effect. I think the
obligation of the ship owner is to supply a ship reasonably
fit to carry the cargo stipulated in the charter party."
In Lyon v. Mells, 5 East, 428, Lord Ellenborough said: "In
every contract for the carriage of goods between a person
holding himself forth as the owner of a lighter or vessel ready
to carry goods for hire, and the person putting goods on board
or employing his vessel or lighter for that purpose, it is a term
of the contract upon the part of the carrier or lighterman,
implied by law, that his vessel is tight and fit for the purpose
or employment for which he offers and holds it forth to the
public; it is the very foundation and immediate substratum
of the contract that it is so; the law presumes a promise to
that effect on the part of the carrier without any actual proof;
and every reason of sound policy and public convenience requires that it should be so."
In Rowson v. Atlantic Transport Company, L. R 1903, 1
K. B. 114, butter was shipped on defendant's ship, New York
to London. The bill of lading provided that it should be
subject to all the terms and provisions of and all the exemptions from liability contained in the Harter Act. The butter,
which was sound when shipped in New York, was delivered
in London in a damaged condition. It was carried in certain
insulated chambers, connected with the refrigerating apparatus with which the ship was supplied for the purpose of enabling her to carry perishable goods during the summer months.
At the time of the shipment these chambers were cooled down
to a proper temperature for the reception of the butter, and
the refrigerating machinery was in good working order. The
damage to the butter was caused by the negligence of the
crew in the management of the refrigerating apparatus during the voyage, whereby the chambers were not kept at a
sufficiently low temperature. It was contended by defendants that the negligence in the management of the refrigerat-

THE SOUTHWARK.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ing apparatus was not a fault or error of management within
the Harter Act. Kennedy, J., says: "That act gives protection only upon condition of the ship being seaworthy. Now
a vessel, which has to carry a cargo which can only be safely
carried if its refrigerating machinery is in proper order, is one,
which at the present day, according to a series of decisions
both in this country and America, cannot properly be regarded as seaworthy unless it has that machinery in proper
order. The term seaworthiness is one which was originally,
no doubt, used in days when refrigerating apparatus and other
modem appliances for the safe carriage of cargo were unknown.
In a sense it is obviously not a happy term to use except with
regard to that condition of the vessel which enables the owner
to avoid exposure of the cargo to the perils of the sea. But
the more extended use of the term has come to be well recognized. In the American case of The Thames, 61 Fed. Rep.
1014, in the course of the judgment of the court, it is said:
'A ship may be seaworthy as to one sort of cargo and unseaworthy as to another.' When a customary and well-known
article of commerce is received on board ship and carried on
a voyage, the master guarantees the seaworthiness of his ship
for taking charge of that article. As to her cargo, seaworthiness is that quality of a ship which fits it for carrying safely
the merchandise which it takes on board. A ship is impliedly
warranted to be seaworthy quoad that article, and if damage
occurs in consequence of the unfitness of the ship for carrying
that article, the ship is liable, and cannot exonerate itself by
proving the non sequitur that it is capable of carrying safely
and without damage some other article of a different character."
In The Maori King, Law Reports, 1895, 2 Q. B. 550, it was
held that a vessel offering to carry frozen meat impliedly warranted that the refrigerating machinery was at the time of
shipment fit to carry such cargo in safety.
The case of The Thames, from which Judge Kennedy quotes,
is reported in 10 C. C. A. 232; S. C., 61 Fed. Rep. 1014, and

OCTOBER TERAT, 190.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

was decided by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fourth
Circuit. In that case it was held that the vessel in question
was not seaworthy in respect to a cargo of flour which it had
undertaken to transport.
The further question arises in case of loss, upon whom rests
the burden of proof as to the discharge of this initial duty by
the ship owner? This question was before the court in the
case of The InternationalNavigation Company v. Farr& Bailey
Manufacturing Company, 181 U. S. 218, in which the provisions of the Harter Act were under consideration. In the course
of the opinion Mr. Chief Justice Fuller said: "We repeat, that
even if the loss occurred through the fault or error in management, the exemption cannot be availed of unless the vessel
was seaworthy when she sailed or due diligence to make her
so had been exercised, and it is for the owner to establish the
existence of one or the other of these conditions."
In the District Court, whose judgment was affirmed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals, it was held that the burden of proof,
in view of the stipulation of the bill of lading in this case, was
not upon the carrier but upon the shipper, and that there
could only be a recovery in the event that the shipper had
shown by satisfactory evidence, negligence upon the part of
the carrier. This case was decided before the opinion was
delivered in the case of The InternationalNavigation Company
v. Farr & Bailey Manufacturing Company, supra, and upon
this point is in direct opposition thereto, and fails to give
proper weight to the provisions of the act making it incumbent upon the carrier to use due diligence to provide a seaworthy vessel.
It is urged that the findings in both the District Court and
the Circuit Court of Appeals, that the loss did not arise from
want of proper refrigerating apparatus, but was due to a breakdown in the machinery after the voyage was begun, are findings of fact in the courts below which should be held conclusive here. There are observations in the opinions of the
learned judges consistent with the view that it was found that

THE SOUTHWARK.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the loss was due to a breakdown in the machinery after the
voyage had begun, and ordinarily such findings as to matters
of fact are followed in this court; but the case below was tried
upon a theory which ignored the initial duty of the carrier to
use due diligence to provide a seaworthy vessel, properly
equipped for ,the purpose intended. The bill of lading was
treated as a special contract throwing upon the shipper, if he
would recover, the burden of establishing negligence upon the
part of the carrier. As we have before stated, the right of the
carrier to be exonerated in the respects named in the Harter
Act depends upon the exercise of due diligence upon his part
in discharging the primary duty of providing a seaworthy
vessel. The burden of proof being upon the carrier to show
that he has exercised due diligence to provide a seaworthy
vessel at the time he received the meat and started upon the
voyage, the question arises, was this duty discharged? This
due diligence required, said the Chief Justice in delivering
the opinion in The InternationalNavigation Company v. Farr
& Bailey Manufacturing Company, supra, "diligence to make
the ship in all respects seaworthy, and that, in our judgment,
means due diligence upon the part of all the owner's servants
in the use of the equipment before the commencement of the
voyage and until it has actually commenced." An examination of the record convinces us that the respondent did not
show by the weight of the testimony that this initial duty
had been discharged. The testimony discloses an inspection
upon the part of the carrier shortly before the sailing of the
vessel, in which by superficial observation no defect in the
refrigerating apparatus was discovered, but the testimony also
shows that but a short time after the sailing of the ship, within
one to three hours, the apparatus broke down, and was repaired, and then broke down again, and during the voyage
to Liverpool did not reduce the temperature of the storage
room sufficiently to preserve the meat, which was found to
be in a very bad condition upon the opening of the refrigerating box at Liverpool. This sudden breakdown when the

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

vessel was scarcely out of port would raise the presumption
of unseaworthiness at the time of the sailing, making it incumbent upon the vessel owner to prove seaworthiness, and
this independently of the provisions of the Harter Act. Work
v. Leathers, 97 U. S. 379.
The practice existed upon the part of vessel owners of taking
the temperature of the brine, which was the carrying medium
for cooling the storage room, and also of the room itself, and
keeping a record thereof. This record, so far as kept, is produced at the instance of the libellant, and it does not disclose
that at any time the temperature was sufficiently low to preserve the meat. The machinery for reducing the temperature
had been in operation forty-eight hours or more in advance of
receiving the meat. The record of the temperature does not
seem to have been kept after the machinery for reducing temperature was put into operation up to the time of the sailing
of the ship, and that part of the log in evidence tends strongly
to show that both before and after the inspection was made
the temperature of the commercial box in which the meat
was stored was never properly reduced. The refrigerating
apparatus in use upon the Southwark was of the compression
type, which uses ammonia gas as a refrigerating agent and brine
as the circulating medium. The apparatus provides for the
compression of the ammonia gas, in which form it is carried
to a high degree of heat. It is then carried into pipes and
condensed by means of cooling water passed over the pipes,
reducing the gas to a liquid form. The liquid is then carried
through a series of coils or pipes, where, being suddenly relieved of pressure, it expands into a gaseous form, absorbing
heat from the surrounding objects, and cooling the pipes or
coils and brine with which the pipes are brought into contact.
This brine being circulated in the pipes, about the commercial
room, provided for the reception of the meat, reduces the
compartment to a proper degree of temperature for the reception and preservation of the cargo. Whether the room is fit
to receive the meat may be tested by the simple process of

THE SOUTHWARK.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

placing a thermometer therein, taking its temperature. Before the meat is taken on board this temperature should be
brought down to from twenty-five to thirty degrees, and should
be maintained at a low degree in order to preserve the meat.
In the present case, while the inspector did not take the
temperature of this room, the depositions of the engineer and
the assistant, or refrigerating engineer, were taken aboard,
and it appears that the temperature of the room was taken
frequently during the seventy-two hours in which these witnesses say the apparatus was being worked before the meat
was received. There is no sufficient reason given why a record
of these temperatures was not made. The refrigerating engineer says that it was not customary, that there were no
orders to that effect, and there was no room in the log for such
a record, although it appears a record was kept after the vessel
sailed, and from that time throughout the voyage, of the
averages of the temperature of the room. In a vague way
these men say the room was cooling down all right. It would
have been a very easy matter to have established this fact by
keeping a record of such observations which would have shown
conclusively the temperature of the commercial room. A careful perusal of the testimony tends strongly to the inference
that the commercial room was not of a proper temperature,
and that the machinery broke down almost before leaving port
in an attempt to reduce it to a proper degree. There is some
testimony tending to show that the water in the port at Philadelphia, used to cool the pipes, at the time was so warm as to
render it difficult to bring down the temperature of the room,
but the weight of the testimony is that these refrigerating
machines are intended to work and to do work in warmer
latitudes and in a higher degree of temperature than was"
shown to have existed at the time in question.
But whether fault can be affirmatively established in this
respect it is not necessary to determine. The burden was upon
the owner to show by making proper and reasonable tests that
the vessel was seaworthy and in a fit condition to receive and

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

transport the cargo undertaken to be carried, and if by the
failure to adopt such tests and to furnish such proofs th
question of the ship's efficiency is left in doubt, that doubmust be resolved against the ship owner and in favor of the
shipper. In other words, the vessel owner has not sustained
the burden cast upon him to establish the fact that he has
used due diligence to furnish a seaworthy vessel, and, between
him and the shipper, must bear the loss. The Edwin I. Morrison, 153 U. S. 199, 215; The Phenicia,90 Fed. Rep. 116.
It is true the inspector said that he discovered no leak of
ammonia gas such as was afterward discovered, but he seems
to have relied upon external appearances and the lack of evidences of the leaking of the gas rather than upon proper tests
of the apparatus and its actual workings. We perceive no
reason why such tests should not have been made. We think
it was the duty of the carrier to cause them to be applied and
determine the working condition of the apparatus before receiving the cargo, which in hot weather and upon a long voyage would surely spoil unless a proper condition of refrigeration was established. The Harter Act, as we understand it,
relieves carriers from some of the harsher rules of obligation
in force before its passage, but this relief is conditioned upon
the discharge of the carrier's duty to use due diligence to provide that which it holds out to the shipper it is competent to
furnish, a seaworthy vessel, duly equipped and provided for
the purposes of the voyage. This rule, in our judgment,
should not be relaxed by judicial interpretation or construction, and in this case we think the burden imposed by the law
upon the carrier of making due proof of the discharge of its
duty in this respect was not sustained, and there was error in
the courts below in holding otherwise.
It is argued that appellees are not claiming the benefit of
the Harter Act, but rely upon the contract in the bill of lading to exempt them from liability in the absence of affirmative
proof of negligence.
To permit the stipulations of this bill of lading to cut down

THE ROBERT W. PARSONS.
Syllabus.

191 U. S.

the statutory requirements of section two of the Harter Act
would be to allow the parties to enforce a contract in violation of the positive terms of the statute. As was said by
Vr. Justice White, of somewhat similar provisions in the contract before the court in The Kensington, 183 U. S. 263, 269:
"It is apparent that they are void, since they unequivocally
sought to relieve the carrier from the initial duty of furnishing
a seaworthy vessel for all neglect in loading or stowing, and
indeed for any and every fault of commission or omission on
the part of the carrier or his servants."
We think, for the reasons stated, there was error in rendering a decree dismissing the libel, and
The decree of the District Court, as well as the judgment of
affirmance of the Court of Appeals, will be reversed, and
the cause remanded to the District Court with instructions
to enter a decree in favor of the libellants.

THE ROBERT W. PARSONS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 16. A gued March 11, 12.-Decided October 26,1903.
1. Although the Erie Canal is wholly within the state of New York, it
connects navigable waters and is a great highway of commerce between
ports in different states and foreign countries, and is, therefore, a navigable water of the United States within the legitimate scope of the
admiralty jurisdiction of the courts of the United States.
2. The enforcement of a lien in rem for repairs made in a port of the State
to which it belongs to a canal boat engaged in traffic on the Erie Canal
and the Hudson River is wholly within the jurisdiction of the admiralty courts and such lien cannot be enforced by any proceeding
in rem in the courts of the State of New York.
3. The contract for making such repairs is a maritime contract and its
nature as such is not affected by the fact that the repairs were made in
a dry dock or by the fact
4. That the canal boat was engaged in traffic wholly within the State of
New York. The Be~fast, 7 Wall 624.

voL. oXcI-2

