CONTINENTAL NATIONAL BANK v. BUFORD.

119

Syllabus.

11 U. S.

estates of bankrupts is recognized in sections 23, 24 and 25 of
the present act, and the provisions as to revision in matter of
law and appeals were framed and must I-e construed in view
of that distinction.

Denver First National Bank v. Klug, 186

U. S. 202; Elliott v. Toeppner, 187 U. S. 327, 333, 334.
Section 6 of the act of March 3, 1891, has no application, as
that refers to cases carried to the Circuit Court of Appeals by
appeal or writ of error. But in view of the terms of that act
and of the nature of the writ, we have held that under a reasonable construction of subdivision d of section 25, certiorari
lies to decrees in revision. Bryan v. Bernhimer, 175 U. S. 724;
S. C., 181 U. S. 188; Mueller v. Nugent, 180 U. S. 640; S. C.,
184 U. S. 1; Louisville Trust Co. v. Comingor, 181 U. S. 620;

S. C., 184 U. S. 18. In the case first cited it is pointed out that
the Circuit Court of Appeals treated the case as if before it on
a petition for revision though it had been carried there by appeal, and we considered the decree as rendered in the exercise
of the supervisory power. 181 U. S. 192, 193.
Appeal dismissed.

CONTINENTAL NATIONAL BANK OF MEMPHIS v.,
BUFORD.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH,
CIRCUIT.
No. 60. Argued November 6, 1903.-Decided November 1,1903.

On every writ of error or appeal the first and fundamental question is that
of jurisdiction, first of this court and then of the court from which the
record comes, and such a question arising on the face of the record can-'
not be ignored.
By the acts of July 12, 1882, Mlarch 3, 1887 and August 13, 1888, national
banks are, for purposes of the jurisdiction of the United States courts in
actions by or against them, to be deemed citizens of the States in which
they are located.

OCTOBER TERM,

1903.

Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

An action brought by a national banking association in a circuit court of the
United States against citizens of another State, where no ground-of jurisdiction appears in the record except diversity of citizenship, is not, owing
to the mere fact that the plaintiff is organized under the national banking law, one arising under the laws of United States, and under the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891, the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
is final and, therefore, not subject to review by this court.

TE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Rhea P. Cary for plaintiff in error.
Mr. William J. Orr for defendant in error.
MR.JuSTmCE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
Has this court authority to review the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals in this case?
This question arises upon the face of the record, and cannot
be ignored ; for, the rule is well established that, "on every writ
of error or appeal, the first and fundamental question is that
of jurisdiction, first of this court, and then of the court from
which the record comes." M. C. & L. M. Railway Co. v. Swan,
111 U. S. 379, 382; King Bridge Co. v. Otoe County, 120 U. S.
225; Martin v. Balt. & Ohio R. R. Co., 151 U. S. 673, 690;
Powers v. Chesapeake & Ohio Railway, 169 U. S. 92, 98; Great
Southern FireProof Hotel Co. v. Jones, 177 U. S. 449, 453.
The plaintiff in error, plaintiff below-the Continental National Bank, organized under the acts of Congress, and located
for purposes of busines at Memphis, Tennessee-alleged in its
complaint that the Bank of Mammoth Springs, an Arkansas
corporation, was indebted to it in a named sum, and it sought
by this action to hold the defendant liable for the amount of
such debt.
The action was based upon certain sections of the Statutes
of Arkansas, c. 47, Sandels & Hill's Digest, as follows:
"ยง 1337. The president and secretary of every corporation
organized under the provisions of this act shall annually make

CONTINENTAL NATIONAL BANK v. BUFORD.
191 U. S.

121

Opinion of the Court.

a certificate showing the condition of the affairs of such corporation, as nearly as the same can be ascertained, on the 1st
day of January or of July next preceding the time of making such certificate, in the following particulars, viz: The
amount of capital actually paid in; the cash value of its real
estate; the cash value of its personal estate; the cash value of
its credits; the amount of its debts; the names and number of
shares of each stockholder; which certificate shall be deposited
on or before the 15th day of February or of August with the
county clerk of the county in which said corporation transacts
its business, who shall record the same at length in a book to
be kept by him for that purpose."
" ยง 1346. The certificates required by sections 1334,1337,1343
and 1344, except certificates of transfers of stock, shall be made
under oath or affirmation by the person subscribing the same;
and if any person shall knowingly swear or affirm falsely as to
any material facts, he shall be deemed guilty of perjury, and
be punished accordingly.
" ยง 1347. If the president and secretary of any such corporation shall neglect or refuse to comply with the provisions of
section 1337, and to perform the duties required of them respectively, the persons so neglecting or refusing shall jointly
and severally be liable to an action founded on this statute, for
all debts of such corporation contracted during the period of
any such neglect or refusal."
The complaint alleged that during the entire period of his
term of office as President of the Bank of Mammoth Springs,
that is, from June 9, 1891, to June 9, 1896, the defendant
Buford "wholly neglected to comply with the provisions and
perform the duties required of him by said sections 1337 and
1346, by making, swearing to and causing to be filed the statement or certificate required thereby."
The defendant demurred to the complaint onvarious grounds,
one being that the plaintiff's action appeared to be barred by
the statute of limitations of Arkansas. The Circuit Court sustained the demurrer, it being of opinion that the complaint did

OCTOBER TERMI, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

not show any cause of action; also, that a suit for the debt in
question was barred by the statute of limitations of Arkansas.
The plaintiff declining to amend, the suit was dismissed. That
judgment was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, 114
Fed. Rep. 290, and from that judgment the present writ of error
was prosecuted.
By the very terms of the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891, 26
Stat. 826, c. 517, the judgment of a Circuit Court of Appeals
of the United States is final where the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court depends entirely upon the diverse citizenship of
the parties. No ground whatever of jurisdiction in the Circuit
Court appears in the complaint or elsewhere in the record, other
than diversity in the citizenship of the parties, unless it can be
said that by reason alone of the plaintiff bank having been
organized under an act of Congress the suit is one arising under
the laws of the United States. This, however, could not be
said of the present suit, if regard be had to the acts of Congress
defining and regulating the jurisdiction of the courts of the
United States.
The Judiciary Act of March 3, 1875, for the first time, invested the Circuit Courts of the United States, without reference to the citizenship of the parties, with original jurisdiction
of all suits of a civil nature at common law or in equity, where
the matter in dispute exceeded a prescribed sum, and the suit
was one "arising under the Constitution or laws of the United
States." Referring to that statute, this court, in Petri v.
CommercialBank, 142 U. S.644, 648, said: "Suits by or against
national banks might therefore be brought or removed upon
the ground of diverse citizenship, or of subject matter, since as
they were created by Congress, and could acquire no right,
make no contract and bring no suit, which was not authorized
by a law of the United States, a suit by or against them was
necessarily a suit arising under the laws of the United States.
Osborn v. Bank of the United States, 9 Wheat. 738; Leather
Manufacturers'Bank v. Cooper, 120 U. S.778; Pacific Railroad
Removal Cases, 115 U. S.1. And of course national banks, as

CONTINENTAL NATIONAL BANK v. BUFORD.
191 U. S.

123

Opinion of the Court.

well as state banks and individuals, might bring or remove
suits otherwise arising under the Constitution, laws or treaties
of the United States."
But, in respect of national bank associations, a radical change
was introduced by subsequent acts of Congress.
By the act of July 12, 1882, c. 290, it was provided: "That
the jurisdiction for suits hereafter brought by or against any
association established under any law providing for national
banking associations, except suits between them and the United
States, or its officers and agents, shall be the same as, and not
other than, the jurisdiction for suits by or against banks not
organized under any law of the United States which do or
might do banking business where such national banking associations may be doing business when such suits may be begun:
And all laws and parts of laws of the United States inconsistent
with this proviso be, and the same are hereby, repealed." 22
Stat. 162. Then came the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1887,
corrected by the act of August 13, 1888, c. 866, and providing
(ยง4): "That all national banking associations established under
the laws of the United States shall, for the purposes of all actions by or against them, real, personal, or mixed, and all suits
in equity, be deemed citizens of the States in which they are
respectively located; and in such cases the Circuit and District
Courts shall not have jurisdiction other than such as they
would have in cases between individual citizens of the same
State. The provisions of this section shall not be held io affect
the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States in cases commenced by the United States or by direction of any officer
thereof, or cases for winding up the affairs of any such bank."
25 Stat. 433.
The necessary effect of this legislation was to make national
banks, for purposes of suing and being sued in the Circuit
Courts of the United States, citizens of the States in which
they were respectively located, and to withdraw from them the
right to invoke the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts of the
United States simply upon the ground that they were created

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

by and exercised their powers under acts of Congress. No
other purpose can be imputed to Congress than to effect that
result. Of course, notwithstanding the acts of 1882 and 1888,
there remained to a national bank, independently of its Federal origin, and as a citizen of the State in which it was located,
the right to invoke the original jurisdiction of the Circuit
Courts in any suit involving the required amount, and which,
by reason of its subject matter, and not by reason simply of
the Federal origin of the bank, was a suit arising under the
Constitution or laws of the United States. Petriv. Commercial
Bank, 142 U. S. 644, 648. Treating the plaintiff as a citizen of
Tennessee, its right to sue the defendant in the Federal court,
sitting in Arkansas, was beyond dispute. But, as already suggested, it did not assert any right, privilege or immunity that
was dependent in any degree upon the Constitution or laws of
the United States. As jurisdiction could not arise merely from
the Federal origin of the plaintiff bank, and as no Federal question was involved in the suit, it must be taken that the only
ground of jurisdiction in the Circuit Court was the diverse citizenship of the parties. If, apart from the fact that the plaintiff bank was a Federal corporation, the suit had been one arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States, it could
not have been said that the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
depended entirely upon diverse citizenship of the parties. But
are
as no Federal questions, upon which the suit depended,
of
Court
Circuit
the
of
judgment
presented by the record, the
to
subject
not
therefore,
Appeals in this case was final, and,
review by this court.
What we have said is, we think, required by the decision in
a
Ex parte Jones, 164 U. S. 691. It appeared in that case that
the
of
Court
Circuit
the
in
judgment for money was recovered
United States for the District of Massachusetts. Its amount
was paid and subsequently deposited in a national bank. The
bank having refused to pay over the money, suit was brought
against it. The suit was dismissed by the Circuit Court and
the judgment of dismissal was aff-med by the Circuit Court of

CONTINENTAL NATIONAL BANK v. BUFORD.
191 U. S.

125

Opinion of the Court.

Appeals. The latter court having refused to allow an appeal
upon the ground that an appeal was not given by the statute,
proceedings by mandamus were instituted to compel it to do so.
After referring to the clause in the Judiciary Act of 1888, declaring that national banking associations should be deemed
citizens of the States in which they were respectively located,
and that the Circuit and District Courts should not have jurisdiction, other than such as they would have in cases between
individual citizens of the same States, the court said (p. 693) :" In
Leather Mfrs. Bank v. Cooper,120 U. S. 778, it was held by this
court that, under the act of 1882, which was similar in its terms
[to that of 1888], an action against a national bank could not
be removed to the Federal court, 'unless a similar suit could
be entertained by the same court by or against a state bank
in like situation with the national bank. Consequently, so
long as the act of 1882 was in force, nothing in the way of
jurisdiction could be claimed by a national bank because of
the source of its incorporation. A national bank was by that
statute placed before the law in this respect the same as a
bank not organized under the laws of the United States.'
. . . In this case the original bill averred the complainant
to be a citizen of Pennsylvania and the defendant to be a
national bank, duly established under the laws of the United
States, having its place of business at Boston, and a citizen of
the State of Massachusetts. As the bill was filed after the act
of 1888 took effect, it must be deemed to be a suit dependent
upon citizenship alone. . . . The petition for mandamus
must be denied." Of course, that suit would not have been
so regarded, and the petition would have been granted, if the
Federal origin of the bank had been itself ground of jurisdiction, independently of the diverse citizenship of the parties.
For the reasons stated, the writ of error must be dismissed
for want of jurisdiction in this court to review the final order
of the Circuit Court of Appeals.

Dismissed.

