WRIGHT v. MORGAN.
191 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

capacitated from foreign commerce, designed and used exclusively for mere local traffic within a State.
I am authorized to say that the CHEF JUSTICE and MR.
JUSTICE Pmcyn&M concur in this dissent.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAw

also dissents.

WRIGHT v. MORGAN.
ERROR TO THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 13. Argued October 13, 14,1903.-Decided October 26, 1903.

An act of Congress entitled " An act to enable the City of Denver to purchase certain lands for a cemetery" authorized the mayor to enter the
lands at a minimum price "to be held and used for a burial place for
said city and vicinity." A patent was issued conveying.the land to the
"mayor in trust for said city and to his successors" which was confirmed by a later act. The Catholic Bishop of Denver petitioned the
common council for a conveyance of a part of the land to him and his
successors on the ground that it had been bought by him and used as
a burial place. The petition was granted and the mayor made a deed
in the name of the city, the grantee being described as Bishop of Colorado, habendam to him and his heirs. Subsequently the bishop conveyed a part of the land so conveyed to him which had not been used for
burial purposes to defendant's predecessor in title. A later mayor
brought ejectment for this part.
Held, that the title was not in the plaintiff.
Seemble, that the title was in the city, that it had power to convey the land
and that the deed executed was sufficient so far as the question was open.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Halsted L. Ritter and .(r. Frederick A. Williams for
plaintiff in error.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

Mr. Willard Teller and Mr. Clayton C. Dorsey for defendants in error.
MR. JusTicri HovrEs delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action of ejectment brought in the Colorado state
court and removed to the Circuit Court of the United States.
The case was tried in the latter court and a verdict and judgment were ordered for the plaintiff on the undisputed facts.
On exceptions a judgment was ordered for the defendants by
the Circuit Court of Appeals, 106 Fed. Rep. 452, see 79 Fed.
Rep. 577, and the case was brought here by writ of error.
The defendants claim title under a sale by the city of Denver
and a deed executed by the mayor of the city. The plaintiff
contends that the act of Congress under which the original
patent was granted made the land inalienable, that the patent
did not give the city a legal title, that the city had no power
to convey, that the alleged authority of the city to the mayor
to execute the deed was insufficient, and that the deed, did
not follow the resolution upon which the defendants rely.
The act of Congress, approved May 21, 1872, c. 187, 17 Stat.
140, was entitled "An act to enable the city of Denver to purchase certain lands in Colorado for a cemetery," and it authorized the mayor of the city to enter, at the minimum price,
certain lands, including the land in question, "to be held and
used for a burial place for said city and vicinity." The price
was paid and a patent was issued purporting to convey to the
"mayor in trust for said city and to his successors" the said
land, not referring to the above act otherwise than by the
words "in conformity with the several acts of Congress in such
case made and provided." This patent was confirmed by an
act of Congress approved January 25, 1890, c. 3, 26 Stat. 2,
and the city of Denver was authorized "to vacate the use of
the said land, or any portion thereof, as a cemetery, and to
appropriate and use the same or any part thereof for a public
park or grounds."

WRIGHT . MORGAN.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

After the passage of the first act, Joseph P. Machebceuf,
the Roman Catholic bishop of Denver, made a petition to
the mayor and common council of Denver, representing that
in 1863 he had purchased a part of the said lands, and that the
same had been and was used as a burial place, and asking
for a conveyance to him and his successors in office. A committee recommended that the petition be granted, and the
council voted to adopt the report. On February 6, 1874, for
a stipulated price which was received, a deed was executed
by the mayor in the name of the city to Machebcauf, described
as bishop of Colorado, habendum to him, his heirs and assigns,
The land in controversy is a
"for the purposes aforesaid."
part of the land embraced in this deed, and, never having
been used for burial, was conveyed by Machebceuf to the defendants' predecessor in title.
On the foregoing facts it is sufficiently evident that the
plaintiff has no title, and that would be enough to show that
the judgment must be affirmed. The action is brought by
the present mayor in his own name, not by the city. Furthermore, it also is plain enough that the city did get a title by
the patent. The first act of Congress contemplated a purchase by the city, and the patent was to the mayor in trust
for the city. This trust was executed by the statute of uses.
The second act recites that the city has received and paid for
a patent. It is argued that the words in the first act, "to be
held and used for a burial place for said city and vicinity,"
show a trust more extensive than the city, and therefore
prevent the execution of the use. But these words are not
in the patent, and if they had any effect only would impose
a trust upon the city, they would not prevent the operation
of the habendum in the deed. It is suggested that the answer
admits that the title was in the mayor until the conveyance
by the city. But this is a mere conclusion of law. The answer sets up the facts in full, and it is apparent that no point
was made on the pleadings below. On the contrary, it is said,
and is not denied, that after a decision to that effect on de-

OCTOBER TER]AI, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

murrer, 79 Fed. Rep. 577, it was admitted by the plaintiff
that the legal title vested in the city by virtue of the patent
of the United States.
If the legal title was in the city it was an absolute title.
In view of the extreme unwillingness of courts to admit the
existence of a common law condition, even when the word
condition is used, it needs no argument to show that there was
no condition or limitation here. Stuart v. Easton, 170 U. S.
383. Little more needs to be said to show that the act of
Congress did not make the land inalienable at common law.
We need not consider whether the act could have that effect
upon land within a State, when the conveyance was absolute
and was made to a citizen or instrumentality of the State;
we express no opinion upon the point. It is enough that it
did not purport so to restrict the ordinary incidents of title.
We should require the clearest expression of such an unusual
restriction before we should admit that it was imposed, especially in an ordinary sale for cash. Here the act probably
meant no more than to explain the motive for a sale at the
minimum price. Board of Commissioners of Mahoning County
v. Young, 59 Fed. Rep. 96. The ratified patent said nothing
of any restriction or even any trust beyond the one executed
in the city. Of course, however, no question of trust is before
us. If the city had found it more convenient to convey the
land to a cemetery corporation, there is nothing in the statutes
or patent which would have prevented it The conveyance
to the bishop was essentially similar to the case supposed,
except in technical form, and probably was made on grounds
of justice that very possibly were considered by Congress.
The Catholics had spent money on the land and had used-it
for a burial ground long before Congress passed the act.
Jf the city got a fee simple absolute, as in our opinion it did,
we are not called upon to spend time on the question of its
power under the laws of the State or of its action in the premises. These questions were not much argued here. The city
had a general power of alienation by charter, and we are not

WRIGHT v. MORGAN.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

prepared to say that the power did not extend to burying
grounds. The vote to adopt the report was a sufficient vote
to sell, and the question is not open whether there was any
informality in the execution of the sale by the mayor rather
than by a special commissioner. The supposed error would
be corrected by equity if necessary. After the price had been
received by the city and the land had been occupied by purchasers for nearly twenty years, the city would not now be
allowed to profit by a merely technical mistake.
The objection that the deed did not follow the authority
is unfounded. Giving Machebceuf a wrong title had no effect
on the grant, and the habendum properly was to him and his
heirs, notwithstanding the petition and the intent that the
title should follow the office and not the blood of the grantee.
Apart from statute the law does not recognize the bishop as
a corporation sole, and therefore the land could not be limited
to him and his successors. At all events, it was sufficient to
give the bishop a fee by the proper words and to leave the
official succession to the title to be effected by other means
than the limitation in the deed. The petition of Machebceuf
no doubt contemplated that he would take the land for the
benefit of his church, and no doubt he did so in fact. But
there was nothing which required this intention to be expressed in the deed.-The plaintiff is not concerned with the
extent of Machebceuf's power to convey to secular uses.
Judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed.

