WARNER v. SEARLE & HERETE CO.
191 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

have retained the case. Having reached the result that the
court erred in so doing, we are vested with the power to direct
that conclusion to be carried into effect, and in its exercise we
discharge one of our essential functions, the determination of
the jurisdiction of the courts below. Morris v. Gilmer, 129
U. S. 315; Wetmore v. Rymer, 169 U. S. 115; Aztec Mining Co.
v. Ripley, 151 U. S. 79.
The bill was dismissed by the Circuit Court but not for
want of jurisdiction, and the decree will be reversed in order
that the case may be disposed of on that ground, at the costs
of appellant, which takes nothing by its appeal.
The decree is reversed at appellant's costs, and the cause remanded with instructions to dismiss the bill for want of

Jurisdiction.

WARNER v. SEARLE AND HERETH CO.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT.,
No. 42. Argued November 2,3,1903.-Decided November 30, 1903.
1. It is the use without right of the registered trade-mark of another in
foreign or Indian commerce that gives jurisdiction to the Federal courts
under the act of March 3, 1881.
2. The averments of the bill in this case are treated as sufficiently asserting
the use of the registered trade-mark and the alleged imitation in foreign
commerce to found jurisdiction in the Circuit Court under the act as well
as on diverse citizenship.
3. But as it did not appear that the alleged imitation was used in foreign or
Indian commerce or on merchandise intended to be transported to a foreign
country, the decree in favor of appellee is affirmed.

R. WARNER, a citizen of Pennsylvania, filed this'
bill against The Searle & Hereth Company, a corporation of
Illinois, and Gideon D. Searle and others, citizens of Illinois,
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois, alleging:
WILLIAM

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

191 U. S.

That complainant "was the sole and exclusive owner andproprietor of, and had used in his business in Philadelphia and
in commerce between the United States and foreign countries,
and particularly with New South Wales and Victoria, 'a certain arbitrary and fanciful mark, termed Pancreopepsine, upon
bottles and packages containing a certain medicinal preparation," and had sold large quantities thereof "throughout the
United States and in commerce with foreign countries, and
particularly in the cities of Philadelphia and Chicago;" and
that the public generally had come to recognize packages and
bottles so marked as containing the preparation manufactured
by complainant.
That on December 26, 1882, complainant registered said
trade-mark in the Patent Office and obtained a certificate of
registration according to law, a copy of which certificate and
accompanying statement and declaration was attached. That
defendants had, in violation of complainant's rights, "counterfeited, copied and colorably imitated the trade-mark registered," and affixed the mark or symbol "to a medicinal preparation of the same general nature as that manufactured" by
complainant, and had so closely imitated complainant's mark
or symbol, and the manner of placing it on bottles and wrappers,
that the public had been deceived into believing that the goods
of defendants were those of complainant; "and that the said
defendants, together and individually, have sold in the Northern District of Illinois, and elsewhere, large quantities of the
medicinal preparation intended for the cure of indigestion
similar to that manufactured by your orator and contained
in packages or bottles marked with the trade-mark or symbol
heretofore referred to as belonging solely to your orator, or in
such close imitation of your orator's trade-mark or symbol as
has deceived the public and led such public to believe the said
mark or symbol designated the goods manufactured by your
orator;" so that complainant's sales have been lessened, and
profits lost.
It was further averred that "the public in general, and par-

WARNER v. SEARLE & HERETH CO.
191 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

ticularly the citizens of the Northern District of Illinois, identify the article by the name, mark or symbol; and that the
spurious article manufactured and sold by the defendants associated with the same mark or symbol, or a mark or symbol
in close imitation thereof, is a fraud and deception upon such
of the citizens of the Northern District of Illinois, and elsewhere, as purchase the same, believing it to be the genuine
article manufactured by your orator, and thereby the public
generally, and particularly the citizens of the Northern District of Illinois, are damaged and misled."
Complainant prayed for an accounting; for damages; and
for injunction.
Defendants in their answer denied that the word "Pancreopepsine" was a proper subject for registration as a trademark; and charged that "if not deceptive it is purely descriptive, being a mere compound of the ordinary names of the
ingredients, or the principal ingredients, contained in the
medicinal compound, with the name of one slightly modified,
and they deny, on information and belief, that the public have
associated the said name with the goods manufactured by
the complainant."
They averred that they were engaged in business in Chicago
as general manufacturing chemists, and that they had, ahong
other things, "put upon the market a medicinal compound
having, special merit as an aid of digestion, consisting, aside
from the diluent, of nearly forty per cent of pure pancreatin,
about fifty per cent of pure pepsin, and a few other ingredients
in relatively small proportions; that pancreatin and pepsin
are well-known medicinal agents of recognized efficacy in promoting digestion, and have been mixed together for medicinal
purposes for nearly or quite thirty years past; that they have
designated their compound upon the labels of their bottles
and packages 'Pancro-Pepsin' in order that the nature of the
compound may be expressed and its purpose as a digestive
implied by the name; that they have put the said preparation
in bottles and sold it upon the market both as a powder and

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Appellant.

191 U. S.

in liquid form, the latter being designated 'Elixir PancroPepsin.' "
Defendants said that in adopting the name they had only
followed common usage where it was desired that the name
should be generally descriptive of the compound to which it
was applied, and that their compound could not be more appropriately designated; and they denied that they had in any
manner or way-whatsoever copied or colorably imitated complainant's alleged trade-mark, or that they had at any time
misled the public or any member thereof, into supposing that
the pancro-pepsin manufactured and sold by them was of
complainant's manufacture, or that any person could have
been so misled. And they averred that even if the name
"Pancreopepsine" could be the subject of a lawful trademark, which they denied, it had not been infringed by them.
Replication was filed, evidence taken, and hearing had.
The Circuit Court held that complainant's contention touching unfair competition was not established, but that the trademark was valid and had been infringed, and granted an in-

junction.
The case was carried to the Circuit Court of Appeals, and
William R. Warner, Jr., executor, was made party in place
of William R. Warner, deceased. The Circuit Court of Appeals agreed that there was no proof establishing unfair competition; held that the monopoly claimed could not be sustained;
and reversed the decree of the Circuit Court and remanded the
cause with directions to dissolve the injunction and dismiss
the bill. 112 Fed. Rep. 674. From that decree this appeal
was prosecuted, and argued on a motion to dismiss as well as
on the merits.
Mr. Frank T. Brown, with whom Mr. Samuel E. Darby was
on the brief, for appellant:
There is a right of appeal to this court. The trade-mark is
registered and the appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals is not
made final. The suit does not depend entirely upon common

WARNER v. SEARLE & HERETH CO.
191 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

law trade-mark. The use by defendant of this trade-mark in
commerce with foreign nations is a question of merit and not
of jurisdiction; the statute requires use by the registrant but
not foreign use by infringer. United States v. Steffen, 100
U. S. 82; Watch Co. v. Watch Case Co., 87 0. G. 2323; 94 Fed.
Rep. 667 and 179 U. S. 665. The constitutionality of the trade
mark act is drawn in question in this suit. A statute merely
requiring that on the owner of the trade-mark establishing use
in commerce with foreign nations or Indian tribes the counterfeiting of the trade-mark is prohibited, is constitutional as it
comes under pars. 3 and 18, ยง 8, art. I, giving Congress power
to regulate commerce and to make all laws necessary to carry
its powers into execution. Addyston v. United States, 175 U.
S. 211, 228; United States v. Traffic Assn., 171 U. S. 505; Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheaton, 196; Brownv. Maryland, 12 Wheaton,
419. This covers regulation of instrumentalities of such commerce. Hopkins v. United States, 171 U. S. 578. Trademarks are instrumentalities. Trade Mark Cases, 100 U. S. 82;
Fulton v. Sillers, 4 Brews. 42, Pennsylvania.
On the merits there is such a resemblance between the trademarks as to deceive a purchaser using ordinary caution. Pophan v. Cole, 66 N. Y. 69; McLain v. Fleming, 96 U. S. 245; 13
0. G. 913; Coleman v. Crump, 70 N. Y. 573; Tea Co. v. Herbert,
7 Eng. Rep. Pat. & Tr. Mk. Cases, 183; Scheuer v. Muller, 74
Fed. Rep. 225; ParisMedicine Co. v. W. H. Hill Co., 102 Fed.
Rep. 150; Stuart v. F. H. Stuart Co., 91 Fed. Rep. 243; Pillsbury v. Flour Mills Co., 64 Fed. Rep. 841; Johnson v. Bauer,
82 Fed. Rep. 662; Brown on Trade Marks, 2d ed. ch. 8; Upton
on Trade Marks.
The defendant's defense that purchasers cannot be deceived
as to the origin of the goods because they place their name upon
the bottle and package has been overruled many times. N.
K. FairbankCo. v. CentralLard Co., 64 Fed. Rep. 136; Battle v.
Finlay, 45 Fed. Rep. 796; Roberts v. Sheldon, Fed. Cases No.
11,916, and cases there cited; Sawyer v. Horn, 1 Fed. Rep. 24;
Hier v. Abrahams, 82 N. Y. 519; Shaver v. Heller & Merz Co.,

GCUTBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Appellees.

191 U. S.

96 0. G. 2229; Vulcan .v. Myers, 139 N. Y. 304; Amoskeag
Manufacturing Co. v. Trainer, 101 U. S. 51; National Biscuit
Co. v. Baker, 95 Fed. Rep. 135.
The defendants had notice of their infringement and refused
to desist and this makes their continued use constructively
fraudulent. Fuller v. Huff, 92 0. G. 1621; Orr Ewing Co. v.
Johnston Co., 13 Ch. Div. 434; Marritowic Co. v. William Numsen & Sons, 93 Fed. Rep. 196; Millington v. Fox, 3 My. & C.
338; Coffeen v. Brenton, 4 McLean, 516. The prior adoption
is not sustained by the proof. The sale of a few bottles will
not constitute a use. The name is not by itself definitively
descriptive. See Lactopeptine Cases,Carnrickv.Mackey;Same
v. Morson, reported, 1877, Law Journal Notes of Cases, p. 713,
and in Sebastian on Trade Marks; Carnrick v. Mackey, decided March, 1877, High Court of Justice, Chancery Division.
A name merely descriptive and not definitively descriptive is
a valid trade mark. Instances: Bromo Caffeine, Keasby v.
Brooklyn Chemical Works, 37 N. E. 476; Momaja, Am. Grocery
Co. v. Sloan, 68 Fed. Rep. 539; Cottolene, Fairbank v. Central Lard Co., 64 Fed. Rep. 133; Vita-Ore, Noel v. Ellis, 86
0. G. 633; Bromo-Quinine, Paris Medicine Co. v. Hill, 102
Fed. Rep. 148; Bromida, Battle Co. v. Finlay, 45 Fed. Rep.
796; Royal, Raymond v. Royal Baking Powder Co., 85 Fed.
Rep. 231; Asepsin, Lloyd v. Chemical Co., 25 Wkly. Law Bull.
319; Saponifier, Salt Mfg. Co. v. Meyers, 79 Fed. Rep. 87.
Mr. Philip C. Dryenforth for appellees:
This court is, on the face of the pleadings, without jurisdiction. In ยง 6 of the Court of Appeals act of 1891, the word
"entirely" is of controlling importance and as this is really a
case on common law trade-marks, the bill of complaint having
been amended to show diverse citizenship, and the statutory
amount involved the jurisdiction is really dependent
entirely upon diverse citizenship and the judgment of the
Court of Appeals is final. American Sugar Refining Co. v.
New Orleans, 181 U. S. 275; Union Pacific Railway Co. v.

WARNER v. SEARLt &
191 U. S.

ERETH1 00.

,

gbi

Argument for Appellees.

Harris,158 U. S. 326; Howard v. Stewart, 184 U. S. 754; Press
Publishing Co. v. Monroe, 164 U. S. 105; Ex parte Chas. F.
Jones, 164 U. S. 691; Northern Pacific Co. v. Amato, 144 U. S.
465; Sonnentheil v. ChristianMorlein Co., 172 U. S. 401; Third
Street & Suburban Railway Co. v. Lewis, 173 U. S. 458; The
Colo. Cent. Consol. Mining Co. v. Turck, 150 U. S. 137; Borgmeyer v. Idler, 159 U. S. 407; Benjamin v. New Orleans, 169
U. S. 161.
The mere recital in a bill of complaint of the registration of
a trade-mark, without any allegation as to complainant's rights
thereunder to use the same in foreign commerce or with Indian
tribes, will not suffice to force jurisdiction on this court. Ryder
v. Holt, 128 U. S. 525; Browne on Trade Marks, 2d ed. 294;
Wrisley v. Soap Co., 90 Fed. Rep. 5; Watch Case Co. v. Watch
Co., 94 Fed. Rep. 667; 179 U. S. 365; Schumacher v. Schwencke,
26 Fed. Rep. 818; Trade-Mark Cases, 100 U. S. 82; Luyties v.
Hollender, 21 Fed. Rep. 281; 21 Stat. at L. 504, ch. 128, 4 11;
Paint Co. v. Mfg. Co., 53 Fed. Rep. 493; Glen Cove Co. v.
Ludeling, 22 Fed. Rep. 823; Gravely v. Gravely, 42 Fed. Rep.
265; Hennessey v. Braunschweiger, 89 Fed. Rep. 664.
The alleged trade-mark was never used in foreign commerce
or in commerce with an Indian tribe since the consignments
referred to in the declaration for the purpose of obtaining
registration, and there is no evidence that the defendants infringed in foreign commerce or with an Indian tribe. The
name is not a proper trade-mark as it is a mere description.
"Ferro-phosporated" case, Caswell v. Davis, 58 N. Y. 223;
"Air cells," "fire-board," Asbestos Mfg. Co. v. Ambler &c. Co.,
99 Fed. Rep. 85. See also Rumford Chemical Works v. Muth,
35 Fed. Rep. 524; Canal Co. v. Clark, 13 Wall. 311; Colgan v.
Danhaser,35 Fed. Rep. 150; "Cresol," etc., Soap Co. v. Thompson, 25 Fed. Rep. 625; Hostetter v. Fries, 17 Fed. Rep. 620;
"L. L.," Lawrence Mig. Co. v. Tennessee Mfg. Co., 138 U. S.

537; Coates v. Thread Co., 149 U. S. 562, 572; "Columbia,"
Mill Co. v. Alcorn, 150 U. S. 460; "Pile-Leclanche" Battery
Co. v. Electric Co., 23 Fed. Rep. 276; Singer Mfg. Co. v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U, S.

Stanage, 6 Fed. Rep. 279; Corwin v. Daily, Am. Tr. Mk. Cas.
265; Amoskeag MIg. Co. v. Spear, Am. Tr. Mk. Cas. 87;
Corbin v. Gould, 133 U. S. 308; Brown Chemical Co. v. Heyer,
139 U. S. 540; Elgin NationalWatch Co. v. Illinois Watch Co.,
179 U. S. 665; Harrisv. Stucky, 46 Fed. Rep. 624.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after making the foregoing
statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

In the Trade-Mark Cases, 100 U. S. 82, it was ruled that the
act of July 8, 1870, carried forward into sections 4937 to 4947
of the Revised Statutes, was invalid for want of constitutional
authority, inasmuch as it was so framed that its provisions
were applicable to all commerce, and could not be confined
to that which was subject to the control of Congress. But
Mr. Justice Miller, speaking for the court, said that the question "whether the trade-mark bears such a relation to commerce in general terms as to bring it within Congressional
control, when used or applied to the classes of commerce which
fall within that control, is one which, in the present case, we
propose to leave undecided."
That decision was announced at October term, A. D. 1879,
and on March 3, 1881, an act was approved entitled "An act
to authorize the registration of trade-marks and protect the
same." 21 Stat. 502, c. 138.
By its first section it was provided that "owners of trademarks used in commerce with foreign nations, or with the
Indian tribes, provided such owners shall be domiciled in the
United States, or located in any foreign country or tribes which
by treaty, convention or law, affords similar privileges to citizens of the United States, may obtain registration of such
trade-marks by complying with" certain specified requirements.
By the second section, the application prescribed by the
first "must, in order to create any right whatever in favor of
the party filing it, be accompanied by a written declaration,"

WARNER v. SEARLE & HERETH CO.
191

. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"that such party has at the time a right to the use of the trademark sought to be registered, and that no other person, firm,
or corporation has the right to such use, either in the identical
form or in any such near resemblance thereto as might be
calculated to deceive; that such trade-mark is used in commerce with foreign nations or Indian tribes, as above indicated;
"
The third section provided that "no alleged trade-mark
shall be registered unless the same appear to be lawfully used
as such by the applicant in foreign commerce or commerce
with Indian tribes as above mentioned or is within the provision of a treaty, convention, or declaration with a foreign
power; nor which is merely the name of the applicant; nor
which is identical with a registered or known trade-mark
owned by another and appropriated to the same class of merchandise, or which so nearly resembles some other person's
lawful trade-mark as to be likely to cause confusion or mistake in the mind of the public, or to deceive purchasers."
By the fourth section certificates of registration of trademarks were to be issued, copies of which, and of trade-marks
and declarations filed therewith, should be evidence "in any
suit in which such trade-marks shall be brought in controversy;" and by section five it was provided that the certificate of registry should remain in force for thirty years from
its date, and might be renewed for a like period.
Sections seven, ten, eleven and thirteen are as follows:
"SEc. 7. That registration of a trade-mark shall be prima
facie evidence of ownership. Any person who shall reproduce,
counterfeit, copy or colorably imitate any trade-mark registered under this act and affix the same to merchandise of substantially the same descriptive properties as those described
in the registration, shall be liable to an action on the case for
damages for the wrongful use of said trade-mark, at the suit
of the owner thereof; and the party aggrieved shall also have
his remedy according to the course of equity to enjoin the
wrongful use of such trade-mark used in foreign commerce or

OCTOBER TElIV,

1903.

Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

commerce with Indian tribes, as aforesaid, and to recover
compensation therefor in any court having jurisdiction over
the person guilty of such wrongful act; and courts of the United
States shall have original and appellate jurisdiction in such
cases without regard to the amount in controversy."
"SEc. 10. That nothing in this act shall prevent, lessen,
impeach, or avoid any remedy at law or in equity which any
party aggrieved by any wrongful use of any trade-mark might
have had if the provisions of this act had not been passed.
"SEC. 11. That nothing in this act shall be construed as
unfavorably affecting a claim to a trade-mark after the term
of registration shall have expired; nor to give cognizance to
any court of the United States in an action or suit between
citizens of the same State, unless the trade-mark in controversy is used on goods intended to be transported to a foreign
country, or in lawful commercial intercourse with an Indian
tribe."
"SEc. 13. That citizens and residents of this country wishing the protection of trade-marks in any foreign country, the
laws of which require registration here as a condition precedent to getting such protection there, may register their trademarks for that purpose as is above allowed to foreigners, and
have certificate thereof-from the Patent Office."
Obviously the act was passed in view of the decision that
the prior act was unconstitutional, and it is, therefore, strictly
limited to lawful commerce with foreign nations and with
Indian tribes. It is only the trade-mark used in such commerce that is admitted to registry, and it can only be infringed
when used in that commerce, without right, by another than
its owner.
Reading the seventh, tenth and eleventh sections together,
we find that the registration is prima lacie evidence of ownership; that any person counterfeiting or colorably imitating
any trade-mark registered under the act, is liable, in the Federal courts, to an action on the case for damages for, and to
injunction to restrain, its wrongful use, that is, the use of the

WARNER v. SEARLE & HERETH CO.
191,3. B.

Opinion of the Court.

simulated mark in foreign commerce or with the Indian tribes;
that the provisions of the act cannot operate to circumscribe
any remedy which a party aggrieved by any wrongful use of
any trade-mark might otherwise have had; and that the courts
of the United States cannot take cognizance of an action on
the case or a suit in equity between citizens of the same State,
"unless the trade-mark in controversy is used on goods intended to be transported to a foreign country, or in lawful
commercial intercourse with an Indian tribe."
Where diverse citizenship exists, and the statutory amount
is in controversy, the courts of the United States have jurisdiction, but where those conditions do not exist, jurisdiction
can only be maintained when there is interference with commerce with foreign nations or Indian tribes, and it is in such
cases that the amount is declared by section 7 to be immaterial. The registered trade-mark must be used in that commerce, and is put in controversy by the use of the counterfeit
or imitation on goods intended for such commerce, as prescribed by section 11.
We cannot concur in the view that the mere counterfeiting
or imitating a registered trade-mark and affixing the same is
the ground of the action on the case, in the Federal courts,
given by section 7, for it is the wrongful use of the counterfeit or imitation that creates the liability at law and justifies
the remedy in equity. And the intent and object of the act
forbid a construction that would bring local commerce within
its scope.
In the present case, diverse citizenship, and requisite amount,
existed, and the Circuit Court, therefore, had jurisdiction, but
it is argued that the jurisdiction depended entirely on diversity
of citizenship, and hence that the decision of the Circuit Court
of Appeals was final. We think, however, that as infringement of a trade-mark registered under the act was charged,
the averments of the bill, though quite defective, were sufficient to invoke the jurisdiction also on the ground that the

OCTOBER, TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

case arose under a law of the United States, and will not,
therefore, dismiss the appeal.
The bill was filed in February, 1898, and must be treated
as alleging that the trade-mark was then in use in foreign or
Indian commerce, although the proofs do not make out that
fact after December 26, 1882.
The certificate of registry was good for thirty years as matter
of evidence, but when it was sought to enjoin the wrongful
use it should have been made to appear that the trade-mark
was then being used in that commerce, and that that use was
interfered with, without right, by defendant. And if the presumption of continuing use in such commerce flows from the
registry, nevertheless, to make out infringement, it must appear that the alleged counterfeit or imitation was being used
on merchandise intended to be transported to a foreign country or in lawful commercial intercourse with an Indian tribe.
We so held, in effect, in Ryder v. Holt, 128 U. S. 525, and
we see no reason to depart from that ruling.
But the evidence in this record does not show that defendant used the name of its preparation on merchandise intended
to be so transported, while the sales proved were sales in the
city of Chicago and Northern District of Illinois, and there is
nothing to indicate that the preparation was intended to be
used in foreign or Indian trade.
In short, even if it were assumed that there could be a trademark in the use of the word "Pancreopepsine," which would
be invaded by the use of the word "Pancro-Pepsin," the Circuit Court could not, by virtfe of the act, enjoin such use
because it was not used in the commerce to which the act
related.
Our conclusion does not require us to consider the question
of the constitutionality of the act, which, it may be added,
does not seem to have been raised in the courts below.
Decree affirmed.

