WHrrE v. UNITED STATES.
191 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

WHITE v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM1 THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 75. Argued November 11, 12,1903.-Decided December 21, 103.

Retrospective legislation is not favored. Unless the intention that a law
is to have a retrospective operation is clearly evidenced in the law and
its purposes the court will presume that it was enacted for the future
and not for the past.
The provisions of the Navy Personnel Act of Mlarch 3, 1899, 30 Stat. 1004,
as to crediting officers appointed from civil life with five years' service
on the date of appointment for the purpose of computing their pay
apply to the pay of officers theretofore appointed from the commencement of the then next fiscal year, when the act by its terms went into
operation, and such provisions do not apply to readjusting compensation4
for any period prior thereto, thereby giving increased pay to officers who
had reached maximum pay before the passage of the act.

Tim case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. George A. King and Mr. William B. King for appellant:
The clause relied on in sec. 13, act of March 3, 1899, is the
second clause of the third proviso, to the effect that all officers,
including warrant officers, who have been or may be appointed
to the Navy from civil life, be credited for computing their
pay, with five years' service. The natural meaning of the
words is that the officer shall be treated as if he had been appointed five years before his actual appointment. For effects
produced by length of service in the Navy, see Hawkins v.
United States, 19 0. 01. 618. As to rules for interpretation
of a statute of this nature, see Jaeger v. United States, 27 0.
C1. 278; Dewey v. United States, 178 U. S. 510. It shouldbe
interpreted literally and the words given their natural meaning. Sturges v. Crowninshield, 4 Wheat. 122, 202; Bate Refrigerating Co. v. Sulzberger, 157 U. S. 36; Hadden v. Collector, 5
Wall. 107; McCluskey v. Cromwell, 11 N. Y. 593, 601. There
are precedents for appellant's contention in decisions affecting the statute of March 3, 1883, 22 Stat. 473; Hawkins
VoL. oxCI-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Appellant.

191 U. S.

v. United States, 19 C. C1. 611; United States v. Rockwell, 120
U. S. 60; United States v. Green, 138 U. S. 293; United States v.
Dunn, 120 U. S. 250; United States v. Hendee, 124 U. S. 309;
Brown v. United States, 32 C.Cl. 379; UnitedStates v. Mullan,
123 U. S. 186 (involving act of July 15, 1870, 16 Stat
330); United States v. Baker, 125 U. S. 646; Jordan v. United
States, 19 C. Cl. 621, in which amounts were allowed to officers for previous services varying from $4.17 to $13,879.
As to system of longevity pay, see Thornley v. United States,
18 C. Cl. 117. As to the rule against retroactive legislation,
Black on Interpretation of Laws, p. 256; Ex parte Buckley, 53
Alabama, 42; Cooley's Const. Lim. 369; Sedgwick on Statutes
and Constitutional Law, 161; Society &c. v. Wheeler, 2 Gall.
139; Hine v. Pomeroy, 39 Vermont, 211; Stoddard v. Smith, 5
Binney, 355; Bolton v. Jones, 5 Barr, 145. In the present instance no vested rights are destroyed, no new penalties, forfeitures or disabilities are imposed.
The granting of a gratuity by Congress is not of so extraordinary a character that all presumptions must be against it.
The giving of gratuities to persons for present or past military
and naval service is a common feature of Congressional legislation. For instance the act of July 19,1848, ยง5,9 Stat. at L., 248,
granted extra pay to the volunteers of the Mexican War, itself
a gratuity. It was not granted to the Regular Army. United
States v. Merrill, 9 Wall. 614. Thirty years later Congress
passed an act by which the officers of the Regular Army who
served in that war were entitled to extra pay. Emory v. United
States, 19 C. C1. 254; United States v. Emory, 112 U. S. 610.
See also 20 Stat. 265, 470, providing for pensions.
The additional bounty granted by the act of July 28, 1866,
ยง 12, 13, 14 Stat. at L., 32, was a pure gratuity of thousands
of dollars from a depleted treasury. The credit to naval
officers for volunteer service was a gratuity under the act of
March 3, 1883, 22 Stat. at L., 473. See also United States v.
Bowen, 100 U. S. 508; Adams v. United States, 20 C. Cl. 116.
These grants were made because in the judgment of Congress

WHITE v. UNITED STATES.
191 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

justice to soldiers of the Civil War demanded it, although its
cost was millions.
It is for Congress to decide what grants shall be made from
the public treasury, and the responsibility rests with Congress
and not with the courts. In United States v. Realty Co., 163
U. S. 441, a prospective sugar bounty law was directly held
unconstitutional; in United States ex rel. Miles Company v.
Carlisle, 5 D. C. App. 138, the same question was raised and
seriously considered but not decided in Fieldv. Clark, 143 U. S.
695, as well as in United States v. Realty Co. itself, in which case
it was held that the retrospective bounty was valid, although
a gratuity, because it was for the payment of accrued moral
obligations of the United States.
A proviso carves special exceptions only out of the enacting
clause. United States v. Dickson, 15 Pet. 165. As to other provisos, see GeorgiaBanking Co. v. Smith, 128 U. S. 174; Hadden
v. Collector, 5 Wall. 110; act of July 2,1864, ยง 3,13 Stat. at L.
351; United States v. Efwing, 140 U.. S. 142.
The decision of this case rests upon the plain meaning of the
words under discussion. The fundamental error of the Court
of Claims is that after seeing the result of this meaning, it
resorted to considerations outside the words used to modify
this natural meaning. Appellants insist:
That all exterior presumptions are inadmissible, the language
of the act being plain.
That the presumption against retroactive legislation does
not apply to laws not affecting vested rights.
That there can be no presumption against a grant of back
pay to officers or men in the military service.
That the date in the opening clause cannot be brought into
the clause under discussion because:
This is the kind of proviso described in GeorgiaBanking Co.
v. Smith, 128 U. S. 181, a piece of independent legislation; this
clause relates to a different class of persons; to credit and not to
pay; it already contains a date fixing the time of its predicate
verb. The preceding and subsequent clauses of the same pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

viso not being interpreted as requiring this date, the date cannot be capriciously selected for this clause.
That the clause can be read harmoniously with the act of
March 3, 1883, only when read like that act, retrospectively.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Pradt for the United States.
Mr. Special Attorney John Q. Thompson was on the brief.
Mu. JusroE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from the judgment of the Court of Claims
dismissing the petition of the claimant. Upon hearing, that
court made the following findings of fact, 37 C. Clms. 365:
"I. The claimant, Ulysses S. G. White, was on the 9th day
of January, in the year 1877, appointed a civil engineer in the
Navy from civil life. He remained such civil engineer and was
such at the time of the passage of the Navy Personnel Act of
March 3, 1899.
"II. The claimant, by reason of service in the Army, amounting to six years, seven months and twenty-one days, previous
to his entry into the Navy, reached the maximum pay of his
grade, $3500, May 19, 1885, under Revised Statutes, sections 1478, 1556. Thus the amount of pay received by him
between the 9th of January, 1877, and the 19th of May, 1885,
was as follows:
9061 64
Three years and 130 days, at $2700 per annum$...
15,000 00
Five years, at $3000 per annum ................
$24,061 64
Total ....................................
"If he were, upon the date of his appointment, credited for
computing his pay with five years' service, and entitledto be
paid from that date, he would receive pay at the following
rates:
Three years and 130 days, at $3000 per annum... $10,068 49
17,500 00
Five years, at $3500 per annum ...............
$27,568 49
Total .................................
or $3506.85 more than he has previously received."
The claim arises under the act of March 3, 1899, commonly

WHITE v. UNITED STATES.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

known as the Navy Personnel Act. The act is entitled " Chapter 413. An act to reorganize and increase the efficiency of the
personnel of the Navy and Marine Corps of the United States."
30 Stat. 1004: Section thirteen of the act provides:
"That, after June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninetynine, commissioned officers of the line of the Navy and of the
Medical and Pay Corps shall receive the same pay and allowances, except forage, as are or may be provided by or in pursuance of law for the officers of corresponding rank in the
Army: Provided,That such officers when on shore shall receive
the allowances, but fifteen per centum less pay than when on
sea duty; but this provision shall not apply to warrant officers
commissioned under section twelve of this Act: Providedfurther,
That when naval officers are detailed for shore duty beyond
seas they shall receive the same pay and allowances as are or
may be provided by or in pursuance of law for officers of the
Army detailed for duty in similar places: Provided further,
That naval chaplains, who do not possess relative rank, shall
have the rank of lieutenant in the Navy; and that all officers,
including warrant officers, who have been or may be appointed
to the Navy from civil life shall, on the date of appointment,
be credited, for computing their pay, with five years' service.
And all provisions of law authorizing the distribution among
captors of the whole or any portion of the proceeds of vessels,
or any property hereafter captured, condemned as prize, or
providing for the payment of bounty for the sinking or destruction of vessels of the enemy hereafter occurring in time
of war, are hereby repealed: And provided further, That no
provision of this Act shall operate to reduce the present pay
of any commissioned officer now in the Navy; and in any case
in which the pay of such an officer would otherwise be reduced
he shall continue to receive pay according to existing law:
And provided further, That nothing in this Act shall operate
to increase or reduce the pay of any officer now on the retired
list of the Navy."
The part of the statute particularly under consideration in

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U.S.

this case, and upon the interpretation of which the right of the
claimant depends, is contained in the third paragraph: "And
that all officers, who have been or may be appointed to the
Navy from civil life shall, on the date of appointment, be
credited, for computing their pay, with five years' service."
It is the contention of the claimant that he comes within
the terms of this proviso, and, as an officer appointed to the
Navy from civil life, is entitled, as of the date of his appointment, to be credited with five years' service, having been appointed January 1, 1887, and by previous service in the Army
entitled, under another statute, 22 Stat. 472, c. 97, to a
credit of six years, seven months and twenty-one days, reaching
the maximum pay of $3500 on May 19, 1885.
The reading of the statute is not altogether clear, and we
are to arrive at the meaning of Congress by such aids as may
be legitimately resorted to in order to determine the effect and
purpose of the lawmaking power in the language used. The
statute is part of a voluminous act to reorganize and increase
the efficiency of the personnel of the Navy and Marine Corps
of the United States. In the title, the language used looks
to the future; it contemplates a readjustment of rank and pay.
It is true that the title of the act may not control the plain
language of the enacting clauses, but nevertheless we may
look to the declared scope and purpose of the act as evidenced
by its title whenever it becomes necessary, in view of the use
of language, incapable by itself of exact construction. Holy
Trinity Church v. United States, 143 U. S. 457, 465.
Chief Justice Marshall, in Umted States v. Fisher, 2 Cranch,
358, 386, said:
"Where the intent is plain, nothing is left to construction.
Where the mind labors to discover the design of the legislature,
it seizes everything from which aid can be derived; and in such
case, the title claims a degree of notice, and will have its due
share of consideration." Coosaw Mining Co. v. South Carolina,
144 U. S. t 550, 563; Holy Trinity Church v. United States, 143
U. S. 457, 462.

WHITE v. UNITED STATES.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The part of the statute relied upon by the claimant is incorporated by means of a proviso. Through the diligence of
the learned counsel representing the claimant, it is exhibited
in the appendix to their brief, that in this statute as originally
reported, section 16 of the Navy Personnel Act (H. R. 10,403,
53d Congress, third session,) there was no such proviso. As
reported in the Senate, January 1, 1899, the first proviso was
added. The other provisos were added as the bill was reported
to the Senate, February 2, 1899, and included the bne now
under consideration; and it is argued that not only does this
proviso contain independent matter, but 'that it was introduced
into the bill and intended to be enacted as such. It is undoubtedly true that in Congressional legislation provisos have
been included in statutes which are really independent pieces
of legislation, but this is a misuse of the usual purpose and
effect of a proviso, which is to make exception from the enacting clause, to restrain generality and to prevent misinterpretation. Minis v. United States, 15 Pet. 423. If possible, the
act is to be given such construction as will permit both the
enacting "clause and the proviso to stand and be construed
together with a view to carry into effect the whole purpose
of the law. 1 Kent, 463. The purview of the act and the
words of the proviso must be reconciled if may be, and the
operation of the proviso may be limited by the scope of the
enacting clause. The object of interpretation being to ascertain the purpose of the lawmakers as expressed in the terms
used in the law, we have a right to look to other laws upon the
same subject matter, and to consider the purpose intended to
be carried into effect by the operation of the new law considered with the old and as a part of a general provision. It
is true that if the language used is free from ambiguity it is
the best evidence of the thing intended, and it is the duty of
the courts to find, if possible, within the four corners of the
act, and from the language used, the scope and meaning of the
law. Lake County v. Rollins, 130 U. S. 662, 671. It is equally
true that it is the business of courts to decide what the law is,

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

and not by consideration or surmises as to the policy of the
Government have the effect to adjudge that to be law which
has not been so enacted by the legislature. Dewey v. United
States, 178 U. S. 510, 521. But, after all, the main purpose of
interpretation is to ascertain and carry into effect the object
and purpose of the legislature in making the given law as expressed in the language used. Where it is claimed that a law
is to have a retrospective operation, such must be clearly the
intention, evidenced in the law and its purposes, or the court
will presume that the lawmaking power is acting for the future
only and not for the past; that it is enacting a rule of conduct
which shall control the future rights and dealings of men,
rather than review and affix new obligations to that which
has been done in the past. While it is undoubtedly within
the power of Congress to provide for bounties or gratuities
to those in the naval or military service of the United States,
we should hardly look for such legislation in an act having the
declared purpose and scope of the one now under consideration.
Retrospective legislation is not favored. Cooley on Constitutional Limitations, 529. Retrospective laws which have been
sustained in the courts liave ordinarily had the effect to remedy
irregularities in legal procedure, assessment of property for
taxation, and the like. Cooley on Const. Lim. 530, 531.
But it is urged that the plain meaning of this statute includes officers in the situation of the claimant and requires a
readjustment of their pay for years past. The language used
is "all officers that have been or may be appointed to the Navy
from civil life," and it is claimed that unless this construction
is given to the act, violence is done to its terms, and to the
rights intended to be conferred upon the claimant and other
officers similarly situated. The proviso directs credit on the
date of appointment. It is argued that this means as of the
date of appointment. If this be true, it is in conflict with
the first clause of .the act, which makes increased pay begin
on June thirtieth. The effect of this construction of the proviso when read with the first clause of the act is thus perti-

WHITE v. UNITED STATES.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

nently pointed out in the majority opinion of the Court of
Claims:
"The subject matter of the proviso in question pertains to
the rank of chaplains and to the basis for computing the pay
of 'all officers, including warrant officers, who have been or may
be appointed to the Navy from civil life;' and the purview or
body of the section refers to the pay of 'commissioned officers
of the line of the Navy and of the Medical and Pay Corps,'
many of whom-nearly all from the Medical Corps-were appointed from civil life, while the chaplains, the majority of the
professors of mathematics, nearly all the civil engineers, and
other .officers were appointed from civil life.
"So that the language of the proviso, 'all officers . .
who have been or may be appointed to the Navy from civil
life,' clearly includes those officers mentioned in the body of
the section who were appointed from civil life.
"If, therefore, the claimant's contention should prevail,
those officers so appointed whose pay was increased after
June 30, 1899, by assimilation to Army pay, would, in addition
thereto, be entitled to receive from the date of appointment a
gratuity of five years' additional pay, thereby fixing in the
same section two distinct dates for the beginning of the pay
of the same officers."
But quite as important, in our view, is the declared purpose
for which the credit is to be given " computing their pay."
Does it not do violence to this expression of purpose to give
the law a retrospective effect? The purpose for which the five
years' service is to be credited cannot be ignored. It is thus
that the object of the act is to be accomplished, and it is not
declared to be with a view of readjusting the pay of officers
within the classes named, or giving to them, as Congress might,
a gratuity for past services, but the credit is solely given for
the purpose of "computing their pay," and this is to be read
in the light of the purview of the statute wherein its operation
is declared to be effective from the beginning of the coming
fiscal year.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

But it is said that the declared policy of the act includes not
only those to be hereafter appointed, but also those who have
been appointed to the Navy from civil life. It will be presumed that Congress, in passing this legislation, had in mind
the law already in force regulating the subject, and we find in
section 1556, Rev. Stat. 267, that civil engineers in the Navy
are to be paid accordig to the length of their service, with
increase of pay through three periods of five years each, and
after fifteen years of service they are to receive the maximum
amount of pay. If the act under consideration is to be read,
as we think it should be, to have reference to the pay of naval
officers beginning with the next fiscal year "on and after June
thirtieth," it would increase the pay of those who had not
reached the maximum pay by continuous service by giving
to such officers, for the purpose of computing their pay thereafter, a credit for the five years' service or so much thereof as
would enable such officer to reach the maximum pay. This
construction gives force to the declared purpose of the act to
begin its operation at the beginning of the coming fiscal year
and benefits those officers named in the proviso who have not
already, by continuous service, been advanced in pay to the
maximum compensation fixed by law. Congress must be presumed to have had before it in framing this legislation the
statute already in force, fixing the pay of naval officers by advancing them every five years through three such periods to
maximum pay. It enacted, in the statute under consideration, that the officers named, appointed or to be appointed
from civil life, should have such credit on the date of appointment for one purpose--" computing their pay." In the light
of the operation of the act as declared in the first clause to
begin on the 30th of June following, we think this was meant,
so far as it applied to officers theretofore appointed, and who
were not receiving maximum pay, to give them a credit of the
term of five years' advancement toward full pay for the purpose of computing compensation after the beginning of the
coming fiscal year.

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 555
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

While the question is not free from difficulty, we cannot
escape the conclusion that had Congress intended that this
credit should be given not only for the purpose of computing
future pay, but with a view to readjusting past compensation,
and giving gratuities for years past, it would have declared
its purpose in more distinct terms.
The construction here given is consistent with the declared
purpose of the act; it gives to the law a future, not a retrospective operation, and, in our judgment, carries out the expressed purpose of Congress in passing the law.
Judgment of the Court of Claims affirmed.

NORTHERN SEOURITIES COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM

THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.

No. 277. Submitted November 16,1903.-Decided November 30,1903.

lotion for leave to file brief as amiu curce denied.
Mr. A. A. Hoehling, Jr., for Mr. Charles Fisk Beach, applicant.
TEm CHIEF JUSTICE: In support of this motion certain letters were presented showing that request was made of counsel
for the respective parties for their consent to the application,
and that they withheld direct consent, leaving the matter
entirely to the court to determine. When the motion was
submitted objection to the granting of leave was made by
counsel for appellees.
Where in a pending case application to file briefs is made
by counsel not employed therein, but interested in some other

