ALLEN v. PULLMAN COMPANY.
191 U. S.

Syllabus.

under that amendment turn on the power of the State, no
matter by what organ it acts. Virginia v. Rives, 100 U1. S.
313, 318. Therefore, if the Supreme Court of the State construed the statutes as exempting express companies from this
tax and substituting another, as it is argued on behalf of the
defendants in error that the statutes do, the petitioner cannot
complain here. For the legislature could exempt them, and
the question whether it has done so or not is for the state courts
to decide in their construction of its acts. Furthermore, if
the State could grant a total exemption it could grant a partial exemption, and if it has done so, de facto, through its officers, the petitioner cannot come here on an allegation that the
officers acted as they did without the authority of the State.
That again is for the state court to decide. The petitioner
has no case under the Constitution of the United States, and
nothing else is open. This is a writ of error to a state court,
so that questions under the state constitution and laws cannot
be considered as they might be on error to a subordinate court
of the United States.
Judgment afirmed.

ALLEN v. PULLMAN'S PALACE CAR COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
X[IDDLE DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
No. 27. Argued October 16, 1903.-Decided November 16, 1903.
A State may not impose a tax which is in any way a burden upon interstate
commerce; but it may impose a privilege tax upon corporations engaged
in interstate commerce for carrying on that part of their business which is
wholly within the taxing State and which tax does not affect their interstate business or their right to carry it on in that State.
The provision of the tax law of the State of Tennessee of 1887, that sleeping
car companies doing business in the State pay a certain sum per annum
per car and which by its terms applies to cars running through the State

0TOUER TERM,

1903.

Statement of the Case.

191 U. S.

as well as to those operated wholly within the State, is repugnant to the
commerce clause of the Federal Constitution. Pirkard v. Pullman Co.,
117 U. S. 34.
The provision of the tax law of the State of Tennessee of 1889, that sleeping
car companies pay a tax of $3,000 per annum in lien of all other except
ad valorem tax for one or more passengers taken up at one point within
the State and delivered at another and transported wholly within the
State and which does not refer to or affect the interstate business of the
companies, is not repugnant to the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution. Osborne v. Florida, 164 U. S. 650.
Such tax will not be regarded as a disguised attempt to tax the privilege of
engaging in interstate commerce if, under the laws of the taxing State,
it is not compulsory for a corporation engaged in interstate commerce to
carry on that part of its business which is wholly within that State. Pullman Co. v. Adams, 189 U. S. 420.

THis is a writ of error to review the judgment of the Circuit
Court for the Middle District of Tennessee in suits brought by
the Pullman's Palace Car Company to recover from the State
of Tennessee moneys paid under protest for taxes levied and
collected by virtue of certain laws of the State requiring the
payment of sums for the years 1887 to 1893, inclusive. These
statutes are set forth in the opinion. The cases were tried by
the court without the intervention of a jury, and separate findings of fact and law were made. From the findings of fact it
appears that the Pullman Company, a sleeping car company,
operated its cars in Tennessee under a contract with railroad
companies traversing the State. These contracts required the
Pullman Company to furnish the cars, keep the same in order,
and to hire the porters and conductors. The railroad companies paid the Pullman Company for the privileges afforded,
furnishing light, heat and water for the cars, and repairing
damages due to accident and casualty. The special finding of
facts as to the manner of operation in transporting the cars of
the Pullman Company sets forth:
During the years 1887 and 1888 the company operated sleeping cars, as follows: A car left Nashville and went to Memphis
nightly and on this car tickets were sold to passengers from
Nashville to Memphis and not beyond. This car remained in
Memphis during the day, returning to Nashville the following

ALLEN v. PULLMAN COMPANY.
191 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

night and going no further. The next night, it went from
Nashville by way of Chattanooga to Atlanta, Georgia. It remained in Atlanta during the day and returned the next night
from Atlanta to Memphis. On the trip from Memphis tickets
were sold from Nashville to Atlanta and to intermediate points
in the State of Tennessee. On the nights the cars left Nashville for Memphis and Atlanta for Nashville, a car left Memphis
for Nashville and another left Nashville for Atlanta, selling
tickets from Memphis to Nashville and intermediate points, and
no further, and from Atlanta and intermediate points to Nashville and no further. The car from Memphis to Nashville went
on the trip to Atlanta before making a return trip to Memphis,
and the car making the trip from Atlanta to Nashville went on
the trip the following night to Memphis before making a return
trip to Atlanta. The same cars were not used continuously
in this service, but were changed from time to time, there being
four cars performing the service at all times.
During the year 1887 the East Tennessee, Virginia and Georgia Railroad Company ran two sleepers of its own, doing a
business between Knoxville and Chattanooga, Tennessee.
During the years 1889, 1890, 1891, 1892 and 1893 the company has operated sleeping cars b6tween Nashville and Memphis and Atlanta and Nashville, as above set forth. From
1887, continuously, the Pullman Company has operated its
cars on the lines of the Nashville, Chattanooga and St. Louis
Railway, the Louisville and Nashville Railroad, East Tennessee, Virginia and Georgia Railroad, now the Southern Railway, the Newport News and Mississippi Valley Railroad, Illinois Central Railroad and Cincinnati Southern Railroad, and
all other railroads within the State of Tennessee whereon sleeping cars are used, and has taken up, carried and put down passengers within the State.
In 1887 sleeping cars were operated during a portion of the
year between Nashville and Memphis, and did not pass beyond
the limits of the State. It was agreed that, without either
party waiving any rights, the plaintiff's claim would be abated
$1,234.

174

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Plaintiff iu Error.

191 U. S.

The gross receipts of the plaintiff per year from lines running
into the State of Tennessee was about five hundred thousand
dollars. The gross receipts per year from passengers carried
locally in Tennessee was about twenty-five thousand dollars.
The cars actually used on all these lines during each year
would number over one hundred.
Mr. John J. Vertres, with whom Mr. Charles T. Cates, Jr.,
Attorney General of the State of Tennessee, was on the brief,
for plaintiff in error.
The only question in the case is a constitutional onewhether Acts 1887, ch. 1, see. 5; Acts 1889, ch. 130, see. 5; Acts
1891, Ex. Sess. ch. 25, see. 5, of the Legislature of the State of
Tennessee are in violation of article 1, see. 8, sub-see. 3 (the
interstate commerce clause), of the Constitution of the United
States.
The act of 1899 is not inimical to the Federal constitution.
As to what is interstate commerce, see Fargov. Michigan, 121
U. S. 230, 240.
The question to be determined, stated in general terms, is
this: Where a sleeping-car company does both an interstate
and an intra-state business, can a State tax the intra-state
business? Or, stated otherwise: Does the fact that a sleepingcar company does an interstate business, as well as a local or
intra-state business, deprive the States of the power to tax the
local business?
Two well settled principles are to be noted. If the State of
Tennessee is possessed of the power to impose this privilege
tax, the amount of the tax is a question for the Legislature of
Tennessee alone to decide. The only concern of this court is
with the validity of the tax. All else lies beyond the jurisdiction which it has. Delaware R. R. Tax, 18 Wall. 231; Cal.
& Pac. R. R. Co., 127 U. S. 141; Home Ins. Co. v. New York,
134 U. S. 594; Weston v. Charleston,2 Pet. 449, 466; State Tax
on Foreign-heldBonds, 15 Wall. 300, 319; Kirtlandv. Hotchkiss,
100 U. S. 499; Street R. R. Co. v. Morrow, 87 Tennessee, 432;

ALLEN v. PULLMAN COMPANY.
191 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Railroadv. Harris,99 Tennessee, 684, 709; Jenkins v. Ewin, 8
Heisk. 477. The motives of Legislatures, and the policy, or
impolicy of statutes, are things with which courts have nothing to do. Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 87; Angle v. Chicago,
etc., R. R. Co., 151 U. S. 17; Lynn v. Polk, 8 Lea (Tenn.), 218,
233, 298; Railroad v. Harris, 99 Tennessee, 708.
A tax may be imposed by the States upon the local or intrastate branch of a trader's or company's business, which is of
both an interstate and an intra-state character, so long as it is
restricted to the intra-state business, and does not amount to a
regulation of the whole.
It is permissible for the States to tax personal property employed in interstate commerce like other property within its
jurisdiction. Pullman Car Co. v. Penna., 141 U. S. 18, 23;
Am. Ref. Transit Co. v. Hall, 174 U. S. 70. Such a tax is a
"burden" upon the interstate commerce in which the cars are
used, but it is not such a burden as to so interfere that it
amounts to a regulation. Massachusettsv. W. U. Tel. Co., 141
U. S. 40. While taxes affecting interstate business have not
been upheld in all cases, this court has said that when the tax
was confined to intra-state business the tax was legal. Postal
Telegraph Co. v. Charleston, 152 U. S. 692; Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Massachusetts, 125 U. S. 530; Leloup v. Port of
Mobile, 127 U. S. 640; Telegraph Co. v. Texas, 105 U. S. 460;
Ratterman v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 127 U. S. 411;
Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Alabama, 132 U. S. 472;
Pacific Express Co. v. Seibert, 142 U. S. 339; Osborne v. Florida,
164 U. S. 650; Maine v. Grand Trunk Ry., 142 U. S. 217. And
see following cases in state courts. Railroad v. Harris, 99
Tennessee, 685, 710; Osborne v. State, 33 Florida, 162; S. C., 25
L. R. A. 120; 39 Am. St. Rep. 99; State v. French, 109 N. 0. 722;
S. C., 26 Am. St. Rep. 590; New Jersey v. Board, 55 N. J. Law,
529; S. C., 25 L. R. A. 134; W. U. Tel. Co. v. Fremont, 43 Nebraska, 500; S. C., 26 L. R. A. 706; York City v. Chicago, etc.,
R. R., 56 Nebraska, 578; Ogden City v. Utah, 17 Utah, 76; W.
U. Tel. Co. v. Bright, 90 Virginia, 70; Ala., etc., R. R. v. Besse-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

191 U. S.

mer, 113 Alabama, 668; Ohio Express Co. v. State, 55 Ohio. St.
69.
The court below followed U. S. Express Co. v. Allen, 39 Fed.
Rep. 712; S. C., 139 U. S. 591, 658; Pickardv. Pullman Co.,
117 U. S. 34, but the act of 1875, ch. 130, Code of Tennessee,
ยง 3046, relieves common carriers from being obliged to carry
passengers. R. R. Co. v. Katzenberger, 16 Lea, 380.
The act of 1887 is not inimical to the Federal Constitution.
The presumption is that the legislature intended to enact a
law within its powers. Grenada v. Bragden, 112 U. S. 269;
Marshall v. Grimes, 4 Mississippi, 27, 31; United States v.
Sanges, 48 Fed. Rep. 77, 91.
If a statute is fairly susceptible of two constructions, that
one will be adopted which will avoid the effect of unconstitutionality, even though it may be necessary to disregard the
more usual or apparent import of the language employed.
Parsons v. Bradford, 3 Peters, 433; Black on Inter. Laws, 94;
Railroad v. Harris, 99 Tennessee, 687, 704; Suth. on Stat.
Const. sec. 332, citing cases from fourteen States.
In making the distinction between the power over commerce
and municipal power, literal adherence to particular nomenclature should not be allowed to control construction, in arriving at the true intention and effect of the state legislation.
Postal Tel. Co. v. Adams, 155 U. S. 700.
Tax laws enacted to further public interests should be construed with liberality. Black on Int. Laws, 325; Silver v.
Ladd, 7 Wall. 219.
It was proper to average the number of cars to be taxed.
Am. Refrigerator Co. v. Hall, 174 U. S. 70; Union Refrigerator
Co. v. Snyder, 177 U. S. 149.
Mr. William Burry, with whom Mr. J. S. Runnells was on
the brief, for the defendant in error.
Cars running between Nashville and Chattanooga were run
interstate because they went out of the State in transit. Hanley v. Kansas City R. Co., 187 U. S. 617.

ALLEN v. PULLIMIAN COMPANY.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The tax under the act of 1887 is a privilege and is identical
with Pickardv. Pullman Co., 117 U. S.34. No State can lay
a tax on interstate commerce in any form. Lyng v. Michigan,
135 U. S.166; LeLoup v. Mobile, 127 U. S.640; Pacific Express
v. Seibert, 142 U. S.350; Maine v. Grand Trunk Ry., 142 U. S.
217; Morgan v. Louisiana, 118 U. S.455.
The tax on intra-state business is illegal as the Pullman
Company is a common carrier and is bound to afford accommodations to any one applying therefor. Nevin v. Pullman
Co., 106 Illinois, 222; Elliott on Railroads, ยง 1617; Attorney
General v. London &c. Ry. Co., 6 Q. B. Div. 216; Pullman Co.
v. Smith, 73 Illinois, 360; Pullman Co. v. Gavin, 93 Tennessee,
53; Pullman Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S.25; Adams Express
v. Ohio, 165 U. S.220. State legislation which may operate
as a burden on or interfere with interstate commerce is obnoxious to the Federal Constitution. State FreightTax Case, 15
Wallace, 232, 277; and other cases already cited; and as to freedom from taxation given to interstate commerce, see Vance v.
Vandercook, 170 U. S.438; Am. Refrigerator Co. v. Hall, 174
U. S.70.
The license tax seeking to make the business liable if only
a single passenger tenders fare for intra-state accommodation
is a subterfuge to evade the interstate clause of the Constitution. Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141 U. S.47, 58; Austin v. Tennessee, 179 U. S.343; Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S.623, 661;
Morgan v. Louisiana, 118 U. S.462; Henderson v. New York,
92 U. S.259, 268. The tax is not valid because laid upon
local and domestic, as well as interstate traffic. State Freight
Tax Case, 15 Wallace, 232, 272.
MR. JusTIcE DAY, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The taxes in controversy were levied under certain revenue
laws of the State of Tennessee. Those for the years 1887 and
1888 provided: "That the rate of taxation on the following
VOL. oxCI-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

privileges shall be as follows: Sleeping cars: Each company
doing business in the State, oh each car per annum, $500."
Section eight of the act provided: "That any and all parties,
firms or corporations exercising any of the foregoing privileges
must pay this tax, as set forth in this act, for the exercise of
such privilege, whether they make a business of it or not."
The Tennessee act of 1877, imposing a tax upon the running
of sleeping cars, was before this court for consideration in the
case of Pickard v. Pullman Co., 117 U. S.34. That act provided: "That the running or using of sleeping cars or coaches
on railroads in Tennessee, not owned by the railroads upon
which they are run or used, is declared to be a privilege, and
the companies shall be required to pay to the comptroller by
the first day of July following fifty dollars ($50) for each and
every said cars or coaches used or run over said roads; and if
the said privilege tax herein assessed be not paid as aforesaid
the comptroller shall enforce the payment of the same by distress warrant."
It was held that the tax was a burden upon interstate commerce and void because of the exclusive power of Congress to
regulate commerce between the States., Unless the statute
now under consideration can be distinguished from the one
then construed, the Pickard case is decisive of the present case.
Both taxes were imposed under the power granted by the constitution of Tennessee to lay a privilege tax. This power is
held by the Supreme Court of the State to give a wide range
of legislative discretion. Any occupation, business, employment or the like, affecting the public, may be classed and taxed
as a privilege. K. & 0. Railroad v. Harris,99 Tennessee, 684.
In the act of 1877 the running and using of sleeping cars on
railroads in the State, when the cars are not owned by the rail-'
roads upon which they are run, is declared to be a privilege.
Under the act of 1887, the tax is specifically imposed upon a
privilege. Under the act of 1877, the tax imposed was fifty
dollars for each car or coach used or run over the road. Under
the act of 1887, each company doing business in the State is

ALLEN v. PULLMAN COMPANY.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

requiredto pay five hundred dollars per annum for the same
privilege. The distinction, except in the amount of annual
tax exacted, is without substantial difference. Under the
earlier act the tax is required for the privilege of running and
using sleeping cars on railroads, not owning the cars. In the
later act it is exacted for the privilege of doing business in the
State. This business consists of running sleeping cars upon
railroads not owning the cars and is precisely the privilege to
be paid for under the first act, neither more nor less. In neither
act is any distinction attempted between local or through cars
or carriers of passengers. The railroads upon which the cars
are run are lines traversing the State but not confined to its
limits. The cars of the Pullman Company run into and beyond
the State as well as between points within the State. The act
in its terms applies to cars running through the State as well
as those whose operation is wholly intra-state. It applies to
all alike, and requires payment for the privilege of running the
cars of the company regardless of the fact whether used in interstate traffic or in that which is wholly within the borders of
the State. There is no decision of the Supreme Court of Tennessee limiting the act in its operation to intra-state traffic.
It is true that the comptroller has sought to restrain the operation of the law by imposing the tax for two years upon cars
running between Nashville and Memphis and between Nashville and Chattanooga for two years, and fixing one car in each
year as the proportion of local business done on interstate cars
for two years. But this action does not conclude the State in
taxing for other years, and the action taken by the comptroller
does not limit the terms of the law affecting interstate commerce.
In LeLoup v. Mobile, 127 U. S.640, 647, it was sought to
recover a penalty imposed upon an agent of the Western Union
Telegraph Company for failure to pay an annual license tax
as required by an ordinance of Mobile. In the course of the
opinion denying the right to exact the license fee, Mr. Justice
Bradley said: "But it is urged that a portion of the telegraph

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

company's business is internal to the State of Alabama, and
therefore taxable by the State. But that fact does not remove
the difficulty. The tax affects the whole business without discrimination. There are sufficient modes in which the internal
business, if not already taxed in some other way, may be subject to taxation, without the imposition of a tax which covers
the entire operations of the company."
In Osborne v. Florida, 164 U. S. 650, a license tax upon express companies was sustained, in view of the decision of the
Supreme Court of that State that it affected only business of
the company within the State. The statute now under consideration requires payment of the sum exacted for the privilege of doing any business when the principal thing to be done
is interstate traffic. We are not at liberty to read into the statute terms not found therein or necessarily implied, with a view
to limiting the tax to local business, which the legislature in
the terms of the act impose upon the entire business of the
company. We are of opinion that taxes exacted under the
act of 1887 are void as an attempt by the State to impose a
burden upon interstate commerce.
Other considerations apply in the construction of the act of
1889, under which, or acts identical in terms, taxes were collected from 1889 to 1893, inclusive. It provides, p. 247, 266,
c. 130, April 8, 1889: "Sec. 4. The rate of taxation on the following privileges shall be as follows, per annum:
Sleeping car companies (in lieu of all other taxes except ad
valorem tax). Each company doing business in this State, for
one or more passengers taken up at one point in this State and
delivered at another point in this State, and transported wholly
within the State, per annum, $3,000." Its terms apply strictly
to business done in the transportation of passengers taken up at
one point in the State and transported wholly within the State
to another point therein. It is not necessary to review the
numerous cases in this court in which attempts by the States
to control or regulate. interstate commerce have been the subject of consideration. While they show a zealous care to pre-

ALLEN v. PULLMAN COMPANY.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

serve the exclusive right of Congress to regulate interstate
traffic, the corresponding right of the State to tax and control
the internal business of the State, although thereby foreign
or interstate commerce may be indirectly affected, has been
recognized with equal clearness. In the late case of Osborne
v. Florida,supra,Mr. Justice Peckham, speaking for the court,
said: "It has never been held, however, that when the business
of the company, which is wholly within the State, is but a mere
incident to its interstate business, such fact would furnish any
obstacle to the valid taxation by the State of the business of
the company which is entirely local. So long as the regulation
as to the license or taxation does not refer to and is not imposed upon the business of the company which is interstate
there is no interference with that commerce by the State
statute."
Granting that the right exists whereby a State may impose
privilege or license fees upon business carried on wholly within
the State, it is argued that the tax of three thousand dollars
per annum, collected for carrying one or more local passengers
on cars operating within the State, is assessed upon traffic
which bears such small proportion to the entire business of the
company within the State, that it could not have been levied
in good faith upon purely local business, and is but a thinly
disguised attempt to tax the privilege of interstate traffic. If
the payment of this tax was compulsory upon the company
before it could do a carrying business within the State, and the
burden of its payment, because of the minor character of the
domestic traffic, rested mainly upon the receipts from interstate traffic, there would be much force in this objection. Upon
this proposition we are unable to distinguish this case from
Pullman Co. v. Adams, 189 U. S. 420, decided at the last term,
wherein it was held that the privilege tax imposed by the State
of Mfississippi, upon each car carrying passengers from one point
in the State to another therein, was a valid tax, notwithstanding the fact that the company offered to show that its receipts
from the carrying of the passengers named did not equal the

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

expenses chargeable against such receipts. This conclusion
was based upon the right of the company to abandon the business if it saw fit. It was urged that under the constitution of
iississippi the Pullman Company was a common carrier, required to carry passengers, and therefore could not be taxed
for the privilege of doing that which it was compelled to do;
but in view of a decision of the Supreme Court of Mississippi,
sustaining the tax, it was assumed that no such objection existed under the state constitution. Speaking upon this subject, Mr. Justice Holmes, delivering the opinion of the court,
said: "If the clause of the state constitution referred to were
held to impose the obligation supposed and to be valid, we
assume, without discussion, that the tax would be invalid.
For then it would seem to be true that the state constitution
and the statute combined would impose a burden upon commerce between the States analogous to that which was held
bad in Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141 U. S.47. On the other hand,
if the Pullman Company, whether called a common carrier or
not, had the right to choose between what points it would
carry, and therefore to give up the carriage of passengers from
one point to another in the State, the case is governed by Osborne v. Florida, 164 U. S.650. The company cannot complain of being taxed for the privilege of doing a local business
which it is free to renounce. Both parties agree that the tax
is a privilege tax."
There is additional reason for holding that the Pullman Company may transact its business in Tennessee without paying
this privilege tax and continue its interstate business, declining local business, thereby escaping the attempt to tax it upon
business wholly within the State. The statute of Tennessee,
enacted in 1875, provides: "The rule of the common law giving
a right of action to any person excluded from any hotel, or
public means of transportation, or place of amusement, is
hereby abrogated; and hereafter no keeper of any hotel, or
public house, or carrier of passengers for hire, or conductors,
drivers or employ~s of such carrier or keeper, shall be bound,

ALLEN v. PULLMIAN COMPANY.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Cont.

or under any obligation to entertain, carry, or admit any person whom he shall, for any reason whatsoever, choose not to
entertain, carry or admit to his house, hotel, carriage or means
of transportation or place of amusement, nor shall any right
exist in favor of such person so refused admission, but the right
of such keepers of hotels and public houses, carriers of passengers
and keepers of places of amusement and their employ~s to control the access and admission or exclusion of persons to or from
their public houses, means of transportation, and places of
amusement, shall be as perfect and complete as that of any private person over his private house, carriage or private theatre
Shannon's Code,
or place of amusement for his family."
ยง 3046.
Under this act, no carrier is required to admit any passenger
to his car or means of transportation. While the Pullman
Company may not be technically a common carrier, still we
think it comes within the scope and meaning of this act. A
sleeping car is obviously a public means of transportation.
Under this act, the carrier is not obliged to afford its privileges
to those making application therefor. Mr. Justice Blatchford,
speaking of the character of the service afforded by sleeping
cars, in Pickardv. Pullman Co., 117 U. S. 34, said: "The car
was equally a vehicle of transit, as if it had been a car owned
by the railroad company, and the special conveniences or comforts furnished to the passenger had been furnished by the railroad company itself."
It follows that a tax imposed upon domestic business, under
the circumstances shown, cannot be a burden upon interstate
commerce in such sense as will invalidate it.
Under the judgment of the court below, the Pullman Company was permitted to recover for license taxes levied under
both acts. In so far as it permitted a recovery for taxes under
the act of 1889 and identical laws of other years, the judgment
should be modified.
For that purpose, and for further proceedings in accordance
with this opinion, the case is remanded to the Circuit Court.

