OCTOBER TERMI, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

191 U. S.

moval on the ground of diverse citizenship placed it in the
Circuit Court as if it had been commenced there on that ground
of jurisdiction, and not as if it had been commenced there by
consent of defendant under section 23 of the bankruptcy act.
The right to removal is absolute and cannot be trammeled by
such a consequence.
Nor can this writ of error be sustained under section 25 of
the bankruptcy law, for the section has no application. The
reasons for that conclusion will be found in Holden v. Stratton,
ante, p. 115.
As to the suggestion that certiorari might now be issued, the
judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals was rendered May 7,
1902, and there is nothing to take the case out of the general
rule. The Conqueror, 166 U. S. 110, 114; Ayres v. Poldorfer,
187 U. S. 585, 595.
Writ of error dismissed.

TOLTEC RANCH COMPANY v. COOK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF UTAH.
No. 48. Arguea November 3, 1903.-Decided December 21, 1903.
Adverse possession gives a title to land together with the remedies which
attach to the title as effectually as a conveyance from the owner.
Adverse possession under claim of right for the period prescribed by the
statute of limitations of the State of Utah after the act granting the land
and before a patent has been issued by the United States to the Central
Pacific Railroad Company for a part of its land grant within that State,
and not within its right of way, will prevail against the patent.

TEE Toltec Ranch Company, a California corporation,
brought this action in 1901 in the District Court of the First
Judicial District, Box Elder County, State of Utah, to quiet
title to the S.E. I of the S.E. 1 of section 27, township 8, north
of range 2 west, Salt Lake meridian, United States survey.
Title in fee was alleged. The defendants answered separately,

TOLTEC RANCH CO. v. COOK.
191 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

claiming different portions of the land, and each alleged peaceable, continuous and adverse possession under claim of title
in himself and grantors adversely to the plaintiff for more than
thirty years, and that plaintiff's cause was "barred by the
statute of limitations as provided by sections 2856 and 2872,
inclusive, of the Revised Statutes of Utah." Under these
sections to constitute a bar there must be an adverse holding
for at least seven years.
The title of plaintiff, it was admitted, was derived as follows:
Patent from the United States dated January 20, 1900, to the
Central Pacific Railroad Company; the railroad company by
deed dated October 17, 1895, to D. P. Tarpey; the latter and
wife to M. F. Tarpey by deed December 8, 1895; M. F. Tarpey
to plaintiff, October 17, 1896. The patent to the company
was issued in pursuance of the grant to the company made by
the act of Congress approved July 1, 1862, as amended by the
act of July 2, 1864, to aid in the construction of a railroad and
telegraph line from the Missouri to the Pacific Ocean. 12
Stat. 489, c. 120; 13 Stat. 356, c. 216.
It was admitted that the land in controversy was within
the ten-mile limit of the grant to the company, and that the
map of location of the railroad was filed in the office of the
Secretary of the Interior on the 20th of October, 1868.
It was also admitted that no claim of any right or title to or
in the right of way of the Railroad Company across the lands
in controversy was made by any or either of the defendants.
The defendants introduced evidence to sustain the averments of their answers.
The case was submitted to a jury on special interrogatories,
and the jury found that the defendants had been in possession
of the land claimed by them, either by themselves or their
predecessors and grantors, from some time in 1868 to the
commencement of the action. The jury also returned the
following verdict: "We, the jury empanelled in the aboveentitled cause, find the issues joined herein in favor of the said
defendants and against the plaintiff, no cause of action."

OCTOBER TERMI, 1903.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

191 U. S.

Judgment was entered upon the verdict. It was affirmed by
the Supreme Court of the State. The court said, after discussing questions with which we are not concerned:
"The next question for consideration is whether the statute
of limitations can prevail as a bar to the action when it appears
that the patent of the United States Government was not issued
to the plaintiff until January 20, 1900."
The question was answered in the affirmative., The chief
justice of the State granted this writ of error.
Mr. Maxwell Evarts, with whom Mr. Lindsay R. Rogers and
Mr. T. D. Johnson were on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
Under the authority of Deseret Salt Co. v. Tarpey, 142 U. S.
241, and Tarpey v. Madsen, 178 U. S.215, the lower court held
that the statute of limitations ran in favor of the defendants,
as well before as after the issuance of the patent to the Railroad Company and unless this were true the defendants must
fail.
Under the provisions of the statutes of the Territory and
State of Utah, there must be an adverse holding of lands for
at least a period of seven years by the defendants, before its
provisions can be invoked. Comp. Laws, Utah, 1888, vol. 2,
220; Rev. Stat. Utah, 1898, 634.
of
This action was commenced in the year 1901, the patent
Januthe government was issued to the Railroad Company
ary 20, 1900. It is und6ubtedly the law that the statute of
limitations has no application and cannot be invoked in favor
of a party claiming title thereunder, so long as the legal title
remains in the government. Redfield v. Parks, 132 U. S.239;
Gibson v. Chouteau, 13 Wall. 92; Bagnell v. Broderick, 13 Pet.
436; Lindsey v. Miller's Lessee, 6 Pet. 666; Langdon v. Sherwood, 124 U. S.74, 85. In Steele v. Boley, 7 Utah, 64, it was
held that the statute of limitations of Utah did not run against
a patentee of public land from the date of the final payment
for the land, but from the date of the issuance of the patent
therefor by the United States, reversing former decisions of

TOLTEC RANCH CO. v. COOK.
191 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the Utah courts on authority of Redfield v. Parks, supra.
Salt Co. v. Tarpey, 124 U. S. 241, apparently overruled R. R.
Co. v. Prescott, 16 Wall. 603, but the latter case was reaffirmed
in Ankeny v. Clark, 148 U. S. 345, and Wisconsin R. R. Co. v.
Price County, 133 U. S. 496, does not hold that the legal title
to the land passed to the railroad company prior to a patent
from the United States.
See Northern Pacific Ry. v. Townsend, 190 U. S. 267, that
mere filing of map is inconsistent with the power in an individual to acquire any part of the land granted until the patent
has issued. Barden v. Northern Pacific R. R. Co., 154 U. S.
288, either overrules Salt Co. v. Tarpey, supra, or limits it to
the particular case. And see Corrinne Co. v. Tohnson, 156
U. S. 574. Langdeau v. Hanes, 21 Wall. 521, has no bearing
on this case.
Section 21, act of July 2, 1864, providing for payment of
cost of surveying before the issuing of the patent has been construed in Railway Co. v. Prescott, 16 Wall. 603; Railway Co. v.
McShane, 22 Wall. 444; Northern Pacific Railroad v. Traill
County, 115 U. S. 600; Ankeny v. Clark, 148 U. S. 345; and it
has invariably been held that a railroad company, notwithstanding the fact that it has filed its map of definite location,
does not acquire a legal title to the land until it has paid the
cost of surveying, selecting and conveying the same.
There is no evidence in this case that the survey has been
paid for or that the land was ever surveyed. The cases supra
are not limited by Cent. Pac.R. R. Co. v. Nevada, 162 U. S. 512.
No title was acquired by simply filing its map of definite
location.
The 4th section of the act of July, 1862, provides that patents shall issue conveying the right and title to said land.
The right to assert adverse possession against the grantee of
the government prior to the issue of a patent was not in anyway considered or decided in the case of Deseret Salt Co. v.
Tarpey, 142 U. S. 241.
The title (if any) acquired by the Railroad Company at the

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

191 U. S.

time of filing its map of definite location was a conditional fee
and of such a character that the defendants in error could not
acquire the land by limitation, as the United States still had
an interest therein.
As to how a Federal question may be set up so as to enable
this court to take jurisdiction, see Home for Incurables v. City
of New York, 187 U. S. 155; Parmeleev. Laurence, 11 Wall. 36;
Dewey v. Des Moines, 173 U. S. 193; Meyer v. Richmond, 172
U. S. 82.
Mr. B. H. Jones for defendants in error submitted:
Defendants established their defence under the statutes of
limitations proving that adverse possession for a period exceeding thirty years had operated to transfer the plaintiff in
error's title. No Federal question is presented. Carpenterv.
Williams, 9 Wall. 785; no question is raised as to the validity
or operative effect of an act of Congress, the defence being the
statute &flimitations only. McStay v. Friedman,2 Otto, 723;
Romie v. Casanova, 1 Otto, 379; Elmendorf v. Taylor, 10 Wheat.
153.

The withdrawal of all odd sections between Wyoming and
Monument taking effect in May, 1862, is evidence that the
definite location had preceded it. Newhall v. Sanger, 92 U. S.
762; Moffatt v. United States, 112 U. S. 30.
The recitals in the patent showed that the line of the railroad
from Ogden to Sacramento had been constructed and fully
completed and equipped prior to November 3, 1869.
The title to the lands in dispute vested in the Railroad Company by virtue of the Pacific Railroad grants. It is no longer
an open question that it was a grant in presenti and that the
title vested upon that date.
No one but the government can raise the lien question.
That a grant may be made by a law as well as a patent pursuant
to a law has been settled by the repeated decisions of this court.
Ryan v. Carter, 3 Otto, 78; Langdeau v. Hanes, 21 Wall. 521.
In 1868 the sections granted became susceptible of identifica-

TOLTEC RANCH CO. v. COOK.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion, and the title then attached as of the date of the grant.
Salt Co. v. Tarpey, 142 U. S. 241.
Ever since the definite location of this railroad ejectment
suits have been brought upon the legal title to the land granted
by the Pacific Railroad Acts without regarding the patent.
Corrinne Mill Canal & Stock Co. v. Johnson, 156 U. S. 574;
Deseret Salt Co. v. Tarpey, 142 U. S. 241; Tarpey v. Madsen,
178 U. S. 215.
As a matter of history, the only title to all the lands covered
by the cities and towns and homestead and preemption claims
in Utah between Wyoming and Nevada is that which arises by
virtue of the statute of limitations. Forresterv. Scott, 92 California, 398; Jatunn v. Smith, 95 California, 154; S. P. R. R. Co.
v. Whitaker, 109 California, 268.
This action for the land in dispute was commenced before
the issuance of a patent. The property having been held and
possessed adversely to such legal title for thirty-two years
before the commencement of the action. Under section 2861
Rev. Stat. Utah, 1898, the burden of proof was on the plaintiff
in error. Tyler on Ejectment, 867; Green v. Hawkins, 19 How.
69.
There is no evidence in this case showing an ouster, or an
entry, or seizin or possession in plaintiff or its grantors since
October 20, 1868, as required by section 2859, Rev. Stat. Utah,
1898. United States v. Chaves, 159 U. S. 452; United States v.
Devereaux, 90 Fed. Rep. 182.
MR. JvsTicu McI

NNA, after stating the case as above, de-

livered the opinion of the court.
The case is in narrow compass. The question presented is
whether adverse possession under claim of right for the pdriod
prescribed by the statute of limitations of Utah before patent
was issued by the United States can prevail against the latter.
It has been decided by this court that adverse possession of
land gives title to it and all of the remedies which attach to the

OCTOBER TERI, 1903.
Opinion of the,Court.

191 U. S.

title. This was expressly ruled in Sharon v. Tucker, 144 U. S.
533. The suit was a bill in equity to establish as matter of
record a title acquired by adverse possession, and it was brought
against those who but for such acquisition would have been
the owners. Mr. Justice Field, speaking for the court, said:
"It is now well settled that by adverse possession for the
period designated by the statute, not only is the remedy of the
former owner gone, but his title has passed to the occupant, so
that the latter can maintain ejectment for the possession
against such former owner should he intrude upon the premises. In several of the States this doctrine has become a positive
rule, by their statutes of limitations declaring that uninterrupted possession for the period designated to bar an action
for the recovery of land shall, of itself, constitute a complete
title. Leffingwell v. Warren, 2 Black, 599; Campbell v. Holt,
115 U. S. 620, 623." See also Shelly v. Guy, 11 Wheat. 361.
Adverse possession, therefore, may be said to transfer the
title as effectually as a conveyance from the owner; it may be
considered as tantamount to a conveyance. And the Central
Pacific Railroad Company had the title. Salt Co. v. Tarpey,
142 U. S. 241. It would seem, therefore, an irresistible conclusion that it could have been transferred by any of the means
which the law provided. It is, however, contended otherwise,
and Ankeny v. Clark, 148 U. S. 345; Barden v. Northern Pacific
R. R. Co., 154 U. S. 288, and Nelson v. Northern Pacific Ry.
Co., 188 U. S. 108, are urged to support the contention. A
comparison of those cases with Salt Co. v. Tarpey becomes
necessary.
Salt Co. v. Tarpey was an action of ejectment. Tarpey was
the plaintiff in the trial court. He relied for his title upon a
lease from the Central Pacific Railroad Company, and it became necessary to consider the nature of the Congressional
grant to that company. The issue made was direct and unmistakable, and the decision was equally so. The plaintiff
contended that the grant vested in the company the legal title.
It was asserted on the other hand that the title to the land was

TOLTEC RANCH CO. v. COOK.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

retained until the cost of selecting, surveying and conveying all
the granted lands was paid, and, also, that by other provisions
of the granting act the title remained in the government until
patent issued. Both contentions were rejected. The court
said that the terms of the grant "import the transfer of a present
title, not one to be made in the future. They are that 'there be
and is hereby granted' to the company every alternate section
of the lands. No partial or limited interest is designated, but
the lands themselves are granted, as they are described by the
sections mentioned. Whatever interest the United States
possessed in the lands was covered by those terms, unless they
were qualified by subsequent provisions, a position to be
presently considered." Those provisions were considered, and
it was determined that they did not qualify the terms of the
grant conveying the title or essentially limit them. Anticipating the question that if such be the import of the act, what was
the necessity of patents, it was said, there were many reasons
why the issue of patents would be of great service to the patentees. "While not essential to transfer the legal right the
patents would be evidence that the grantee had complied with
the conditions of the grant, and to that extent the grant was
relieved from the possibility of forfeiture for breach of its
conditions. . . . They would thus bein the grantee's hands
deeds of further assurance of his title, and, therefore, a source of
quiet and peace to him in its possession." And the conclusion
was that the title transferred was a legal title, as distinguished
from an equitable and inchoate interest. The distinction expressed the completeness of the title conveyed.
Ankeny v. Clark was an action for the recovery of the value
of 12,767 bushels of wheat, which had been delivered by Clark
to Ankeny in pursuance of a contract by which Ankeny agreed
to sell and deliver to Clark two sections of land in Walla Walla
County, in what was then the Territory of Washington. After
the delivery of the wheat Clark demanded a deed for the land.
Ankeny, after some delay on one pretext or another, informed
Clark that he could have a warranty deed to a part of the land,

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

and a quitclaim deed to the part which was called railroad
land, and informed him, as to the latter part, that if the Northern Pacific Railroad Company could not get title he would be
obliged to procure title from the government. Ankeny promised to pay the necessary expenses of obtaining title in that
way. Clark refused the offer and gave notice that, unless a
good title was conveyed to him for the whole of the land within
five days, he would abandon possession and claim compensation
for the violation of the contract. Ankeny paid no attention
to the notice, and Clark brought suit for the value of the wheat
and recovered. The case came to this court from the Supreme
Court of the Territory. In passing on the case this court said
there were three principal matters of contention in the trial
court. We are concerned with only one of them, and that is,
"Did Ankeny have good title to the northeast quarter of section 19, being part and parcel of the lands which he agreed to
sell to Clark?" Clark asserted the negative of the question;
Ankeny contended for the affirmative, and cited Salt Co. v.
Tarpey. The court did not find it necessary to decide the issue
thus accurately presented. It followed Salt Co. v. Tarpey, to
the effect that the government could enforce the payment of
the costs and could withhold the patents until they were paid,
and this, it was said, gave "the government a lien for said
costs." And it was hence held that Ankeny "did not hold
such a title as it was obligatory on the plaintiff (Clark) to accept." But Salt Co. v. Tarpey was not questioned. It was
only decided that the land was subject to a lien and, so burdened, Clark was not compelled to receive it.
Barden v. Northern Pacific R. R. Co., 154 U. S. 288, was an
action by the Railroad Company for the recovery of certain
lands containing veins or lodes of rock in place bearing gold,
silver and other precious metals. The plaintiff relied for title
upon its grant. The defendant contended that the lands were
excepted by express words from the grant. This contention
was sustained. It is manifest, therefore, that the case in no
way militates with the decision in Salt Co. v. Tarpey, and the

TOLTEC RANCH CO. v. COOK.
191 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

court said so. Mr. Justice Field was the organ of the court in
both cases, and he expressed the inapplicability of the Tarpey
case and left it unimpaired. What was there said was affirmed,
that the title passed at the date of the grant. Of what lands?
Of those, it was held, which were not reserved as mineral. In
other words, mineral lands were not conveyed, whether known
or unknown to be such at the time of the grant. This was the
main question decided. It was also held that the issue of
patent would constitute a determination of the character of
the land by reason of the power of the Land Department to
determine and establish it. But it was not intimated, nor does
it follow, that the conveyance of the title to the company was
by the patent and not by the granting act. There was, therefore, nothing decided which detracts from Salt Co. v. Tarpey.
Nelson v. Northern Pacific Railway was an action brought by
the Railway Company to recover the possession of a quarter
section of land claimed to be within the land grant of the Northern Pacific Railroad, and the company held a patent. Nelson
claimed to have settled upon the land three years before the
definite location of the road. He claimed, therefore, to be
within the exceptions of the grant. The land when he settled
upon it was unsurveyed, and the effect of this constituted one
of the questions in the case. Upon the filing of a map by the
Railroad Company of its general route, an order was made by
the Land Department withdrawing from settlement the lands
within the limits of the grant. The effect of this order was
another question in the case. It was held "that the Railroad
Company did not acquire any vested interest in the land here in
dispute in virtue of its map of general route or the withdrawal
order based on such map," and it was further held that Nelson's
settlement upon and occupancy of the land was valid, and
constituted a clain'upon the land within the meaning of the
Northern Pacific act of 1864. In other words, it was held that
the land was excluded from the grant by express words. The
operative words which produced that effect were expressed in
the following provision of section 3 of the act. "And wherever,

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Counsel for Parties.

191 U. S.

prior to said time, [of definite location] any of said sections or
parts of sections shall have been granted, sold, reserved, occupied by homestead settlers, or preempted, or otherwise disposed
of, other lands shall be selected by said company in lieu thereof,"
etc. This view was established in an elaborate opinion. The
case, therefore, like Barden v. Northern Pacific R. R., decided
only that lands did not pass by the grant which were reserved
from it. An evident proposition, whatever might have been
the difficulties in determining what lands were reserved. And
there were difficulties. This court in consequence divided in
opinion. But those difficulties do not confront us in the case
at bar. They are settled, and in their settlement no doubts
were cast upon the efficacy of the grants to convey title to all
the lands they covered-to all that were not reserved from
them.
Judgment affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE BREWER concurs in the judgment.

TOLTEC RANCH COMPANY v. BABCOCK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF UTAH.
49.
N-To.

Argued November 3, 1903.-Decided December 21, 1903.

Adverse possession under claim of right for the period prescribed by the
statute of limitations of the State of Utah after the act granting the land
and before a patent has been issued by the United States to the Central
Pacific Railroad Company for a part of its land grant within that State,
and not within its right of way, will prevail against the patent.

TE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Maxwell Evarts for plaintiff in error. Mr. Lindsay R.
Rogers and Mr. T. D. Johnson were on the brief.
Mr. B, H. Jones for defendant in error, submitted.

