NORFOLK & WEST. RY. CO. v. SIMS.
191 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

as those of another; and that it is only when this false representation is directly or indirectly made that the party who appeals
to a court of equity can have relief." Applying this doctrine
to the case under consideration we are clearly of the opinion
that there is no such similarity in the labels as at present used,
and that there is no such fraud shown in the conduct of the defendant as would authorize us to say that plaintiffs are entitled
to relief.
The decree of the Court of Appeals is therefore

Affirmed.

NORFOLK AND WESTERN RAILWAY CO. v. SIMS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA.
No. 74. Argued November 12, 1903.-Decided December 7,1903.
The States have no power to tax directly, or by license upon the importer,
goods imported from foreign countries or other States, while in their
original packages, or before they have become commingled with the general property of the State and lost their distinctive character as imports.
In cases not arising under the police power, where an article is made in one
State and shipped in its original package in pursuance of an order to a
person in another State, to be there delivered on payment of the agreed
price, the sale is actually made in the former State and the seller cannot
by reason of the delivery of the article and passing of the title of the
property in the latter State be subjected to a license tax imposed by it on
persons engaged in the sale of similar articles within that State.

THIS was a controversy between the sheriff of Person County,
North Carolina, on the one part, and the Railway Company
and Mrs. 0. L. Satterfield on the other, which might have been
the subject of a civil action, and which the parties agreed to
submit, under the code of North Carolina, to the judge of the
Superior Court upon the following facts, and upon the question
of the liability of the defendants for a license tax under section 52 of "An act to raise revenue," ratified March 15, 1901.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

191 U. S.

Laws of 1901, p. 116. The material part of the section reads
as follows:
"Every manufacturer of sewing machines, and every person
or persons or corporation, engaged in the business of selling the
same in this State, shall, before selling or offering for sale any
such machine, pay to the state treasurer a tax of $350 and
obtain a license, which shall operate for one year from the date
of the issue."
The Norfolk and Western Railway Company, a Virginia
corporation, operates a railroad from its main line at Lynchburg, Virginia, via Roxboro in Person County, North Carolina,
to Durham, in the same State. This company had itself complied with the revenue act of 1901, and paid a license tax for
the privilege of carrying on its business as a common carrier
within the State of North Carolina.
Sears, Roebuck & Company, (incorporated,) of the city of
Chicago, are manufacturers and dealers in sewing machines at
Chicago, Illinois.
The defendant, Mrs. Satterfield, a resident of Person County,
N. C., about November 1, 1901, sent an order by mail to Sears,
Roebuck & Co., for a sewing machine, which was shipped by
them as railroad freight from Chicago to Mrs. Satterfield at
Roxboro, the railway company at Chicago issuing, on behalf
of itself and its connecting railroad lines, a through bill of lading therefor, under which the sewing machine was to be delivered to Mrs. Satterfield on surrender of the bill of lading and
payment of freight charges to the delivering carrier, the Norfolk and Western Railway Co.
The bill of lading was sent by Sears, Roebuck & Co. by
express, C. 0. D., to the express agent at Roxboro, who received from Mrs. Satterfield the price of the sewing machine,
and delivered the bill of lading to her. The express agent and
the railway station agent were one and the same person. Mrs.
Satterfield having paid the purchase price, presented the bill
of lading to the station agent, tendered the freight charges, and
demanded the delivery of the sewing machine.

NORFOLK & WEST. RY. CO. v. SIMS.
191 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The railway company was willing and would-have delivered
the same had not the plaintiff, the sheriff and ex officio tax
collector of Person County, insisted that Sears, Roebuck & Co.
could not sell the machine to Mrs. Satterfield without paying
the license tax of $350, and forbade the delivery of the machine
until the tax was paid, and thereupon levied upon the machine
for such tax. He also insisted that the railway company
would, by delivering the machine, be acting as the agent of
Sears, Roebuck & Co., and would be liable to prosecution for
misdemeanor in aiding and abetting them in an unlawful sale
of the sewing machine.
It also appears in the agreed statement of facts that other
machines were sent by the same consignors to various purchasers in North Carolina, upon the lines of other interstate
railroads, and were delivered upon the presentation of other
bills of lading under the same conditions as above described.
The court found that Sears, Roebuck & Co. were indebted
to the State for $350 license tax; that the levy upon the machine
was lawful and valid, and plaintiff was ordered to sell the
machine and apply the proceeds to the payment of the tax.
The judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State.
130 N. C. 556.
Mr. Theodore W. Reath and Mr. William A. Guthrie, with
whom Mr. Joseph L Doranwas on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
The sale of a sewing machine by a citizen of Illinois to a
citizen of North Carolina upon a mail order, the order being
received in Illinois and the machine being sent from Illinois to
North Carolina, C. 0. D., is commerce among the several States
which cannot be regulated or taxed by the States.
The power of Congress, under section 8, article I, of the Constitution, is exclusive to regulate such a transaction.
The act is not a police regulation but one to raise revenue.
O'Neil v. Vermont, 144 U. S. 323, was under police power and
does not apply. Neither do Howe Machine Co. v. Gage, 100
U. S. 676, or Emert v. Missouri, 156 U. S. 296, which involved

OCTOBER TERMI,

1903.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

191 U. S.

the state's right to exact peddler's licenses. Osborne v. Mobile,
16 Wall. 479, has practically been overruled by later decisions.
This case is controlled by Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat.
419; Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100; Brennan v. Titusville,
153 U. S. 289; Caldwell v. North Carolina, 187 U. S. 622; Bowman v. Chicago & N. W. R. Co., 125 U. S. 465; Asher v. Texas,
128 U. S. 129; Lyng v. Michigan, 135 U. S. 161; McCall v. California, 136 U. S. 104; Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141 U. S. 47;
Stockard v. Morgan, 185 U. S. 24.
The latest well-considered decisions of the courts of last
resort of the several States have adopted the rules settled by
this court, and the state courts have themselves struck down,
without the necessity of an appeal to this court, those revenue
or alleged police measures of the several States which, as inthe
case at bar, impose a burden upon interstate commerce.
State v. Hanaphy, 90 N. W. Rep. 601; State v. Hickox, 68 Pac.
Rep. 35.
Mr. Robert D. Gilmer, Attorney General of the State of
North Carolina, and Mr. James E. Shepherd for defendant in
error.
The Chicago corporation sold or offered to sell sewing machines in North Carolina without a license as required by the
laies of that State, and thereby became indebted to the State
in the sum of $350, it being the amount of the license tax.
The transactions amounted to a sale in North Carolina, and
the sale was not made in Chicago, but was only an executory
contract which was to be completed in North Carolina, and
that until the compliance with the conditions imposed, to-wit,
the payment of the purchase money evidenced by the bill of
lading, the property was still in and under the control of the
said company. The sale was to be completed here through
the agents of the said Chicago company.
This is an attempt to evade the revenue law of the State, and
the railroad and express agents concerned in all of these transactions (who were one and the same person) were the agents

NORFOLK & WEST. RY. CO. v. SIMS.

191 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

of the Chicago company, and it was only through them
as such agents of the said Chicago company, that a complete
sale of machines was effected. The transaction is, in effect, as
between these parties (the bill of lading not having been transferred to third parties), a "C. 0. D." transaction. No matter
what it is called, the agreement here was that the sale was not
to be completed until the price was paid. Hutchins on Carriers, §§ 390 et seq.; Tiedeman on Sales, §§ 85 et seq.
This case is controlled by O'Neil v. Vermont, 144 U. S. 324;
and see also Dows v. Nat. Ex. Bank, 91 U. S. 631; Crook v.
Cowan, 64 N. Car. 743; Ober v. Smith, 78 N. Car. 313; State v.
Graves, 121 N. Car. 632; State v. Wernwag, 116 N. Car. 1061,
distinguished.
The Chicago corporation, having incurred the liability for
taxes, its property was subject to levy by the defendant in
error, and the machine in question was its property, the levy
having been made by defendant in error before the terms had
been complied with by payment and the delivery of the bill
of lading.
The machine in question was the property of the Chicago
company at the time of the levy, because payment and delivery of the bill of lading had not been made and it was subject
to levy for the taxes due by said owner to the State for previous
similar violations of the law as well as for the violation in the
present transaction.
The levy was not a violation of the law as to interstate commerce.
The levy upon a debtor's property in the possession of a railroad
company is not inhibited but can surely be made, and railroad
companies, after the transit is ended, cannot make their warehouses places of refuge against the enforcement of legal process.
The carrier is not obstructed; its duty has been performed, and
it holds the machines in its warehouse as the agent of the
Chicago company, and such agency concerns alone the completion of a sale by' the receipt of the purchase money and
delivery. It has nothing whatever to do with the carriage of

OCTOBER TERMI, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

goods and no interstate commercial element enters into
the 'matter. 2 Shinn on Attachment, § 578; Freeman on
Executions, § 160 ; Schouler on Bailment and Carriers, § 498.
As the goods were actually in North Carolina no Federal
question arises. O'Neil v. Vermont, 144 U. S. 324; State v.
Akers, 132 U. S. 554.

-the

BROWN, after making the foregoing statement,
of the court.
opinion
the
delivered
M .

JUSTICO

To the ordinary mind it seems a somewhat startling proposition that a manufacturing corporation, located and doing its
main business in a distant city, having no manufactory in
North Carolina, no stock in trade, no place for the sale of its
goods there, and no agent authorized to sell them, can be compelled to take out a license required of all those "engaged in
the business of selling," from the mere fact that it had done
what hundreds of others were doing daily-sent a single machine there upon a written order of a customer and under an
ordinary C. 0. D. consignment. If this may be done, the
revenues of every State may be largely increased by adopting
a similar system, since a large part of the business of retail shops
in the principal cities is done by orders received, filled and the
goods delivered in the same way. Of course, it is impossible
to estimate the number of business houses in other States which
are accustomed to collect their accounts in this manner.
If this were the law it would also follow that the consignor
of every cargo of wheat sent to New York for export under a
bill of lading, accompanied by a draft for the payment of the
money in the usual method, might be compelled to take out a
license in the State of New York as a dealer in produce, notwithstanding that all the real business was done in Chicago or
North Dakota.
So, too, what the State may do directly it may authorize its
municipalities to do, and if, under legislative sanction, each of
the large towns in the State of North Carolina saw fit to adopt

NORFOLK & WEST. RY. CO. v. SIMS.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

a similar license tax, the consequence would be, not a simple
interference with interstate commerce, but a practical destruction of one important branch of it.
While it may be entirely true that the property in the thing
sold does not pass under a C. 0. D. consignment until delivery
of the goods and payment to the carrier, and hence it may be
said that the sale is not completed until then, yet as matter of
fact the bargain is made and the contract of sale completed as
such, when the order is received in Chicago, and the machine
shipped in pursuance thereof.
A sale really consists of two separate and distinct elements:
first, a contract of sale, which is completed when the offer is
made and accepted; and, second, a delivery of the property
which may precede, be accompanied by, or follow the payment of the price, as may have been agreed upon between
the parties. The substance of the sale is the agreement to sell
and its acceptance. That possession shall be retained until
payment of the price may or may not have been a part of the
original bargain, but in substance it is a mere method of collection, and we have never understood that a license could be
imposed upon this transaction, except in connection with the
prior agreement to sell, although in certain cases arising under
the police power it has been held that the sale is not complete
until delivery, and sometimes not until payment. Were it
not for the opinion of the Supreme Court of North Carolina,
we should have said that the words "engaged in the business
of selling the same within the State" had reference to the word
"selling" in its popular and ordinary sense, of selling from a
stock on hand or upon a special order to a manufacturer, and
not to a mere method of collecting the money; but, however
this may be, it is evident the state courts could not give it a
construction which would operate as an interference with interstate commerce, and that upon this question the opinion of
this court is controlling.
The cases relied upon by the State do not support its contention. In Machine Co. v. Gage, 100 U. S. 676, a Connecticut

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

corporation, manufacturing sewing machines at Bridgeport,
had an agency at Nashville, Tennessee, from which an agent
was sent out to sell machines. It was held that he was subject
to a license tax upon "all peddlers of sewing machines, without
regard to the place of growth or produce of material or manufacture." As it appeared that the sale was made, and wholly
made, in the State of Tennessee, and apparently from a stock
kept in that State, through an agent of the company, the case
is not in point. This case was followed, upon a similar state
of facts in Emert v. Missouri, 156 U. S. 296.
The case most earnestly pressed upon attention, however,
is that of O'Neil v. Vermont, 144 U. S. 323. This was a prosecution before a justice of the peace for selling, furnishing, and
giving away intoxicating liquors. The defendant was a dealer
in liquors at Whitehall, New York, and was in the habit of
receiving at his store orders for liquor from Vermont,, accompanied by a jug to contain the liquor; and the liquors, as in
this case, were sent under a C. 0. D. consignment.
It was held by this court that, as the only question considered
by the Supreme Court in its opinion was whether the liquor was
sold by O'Neil at Rutland, or at Whitehall, and the court
arrived at the conclusion that the completed sale was in Vermont, that this conclusion did not involve any Federal question, and the writ of error was dismissed. Mr. Justice Blatchford took express pains to say that "no point on the commerce
clause of the Constitution of the United States was taken in the
county court, . . . or considered by the Supreme Court of
Vermont." The case was put by the Supreme Court of the
State solely upon its police power. "If," said that court, "an
express company or any other carrier or person, natural or
corporate, has in possession within this State an article in
itself dangerous to the community, or an article intended for
unlawful or criminal use within the State, it is a necessary
incident of the police powers of the State that such article
should be subject to seizure for the protection of the community."

NORFOLK & WEST. RY. CO. v. SIMS.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

It will thus be seen that the Supreme Court of Vermont disclaimed the decision of the very question involved in this case
as to the power of the States to interfere with interstate commerce by taxation of6the thing imported, and the writ of error
was dismissed upon the ground that no Federal question was
presented for its decision, and none was necessary to the
determination of the case. Mr. Justice Field, in his dissenting
opinion, thought the commerce clause of the Constitution was
involved, and that the transaction was a clear interference
with commerce between the States.
Upon the other hand, for the past seventy-five years and
ever since the original case of Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat.
419, we have uniformly held that States have no power to tax
directly or by license upon the importer, goods imported from
foreign countries or other States, while in their original packages, or before they have become commingled with the general
property of the State and lost their distinctive character as
imports. In that case a law of Maryland required importers
to take out a license before they could be permitted to sell
their imported goods. That was declared to. be void not only
as a tax upon imports, but as an infringement upon the power
of Congress to regulate commerce. The case is one of the most
important ever decided by this court, and has been adhered
to by a uniform series of decisions since that time.
In Robbins v. Shelby Taxing District, 120 U. S.489, it was
declared that a tax upon commercial agents not having a business house in the State, was unconstitutional as a regulation of
commerce when applied to soliciting the sale of goods on behalf
of individuals or firms doing business in another State, Mir.
Justice Bradley remarking, apropos of what was subsequently
decided in O'Neil v. Vermont, "that the only way in which
commerce between the States can be legitimately affected by
state laws, is when, by virtue of its police power, and its jurisdiction over persons and property within its limits, a State
provides for the security of the lives, limbs, health and comfort
of persons and protection of property; or when it does thos
voL. xc0-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

things which may otherwise incidentally affect commerce, such
as . . . the imposition of taxes upon all property within
the State, mingled with and forming part of the great mass of
property therein. But in making such internal regulations a
State cannot impose taxes .
upon property imported
into the State from abroad, or from another State, and not yet
become part of the common mass of property therein,
and no regulations can be made directly affecting interstate
commerce." This case was affirmed in Asher v. Texas, 128
U. S. 129.
The same rule was applied in Welton v. Missouri, 91 U. S.
275, and Walling v. Michigan, 116 U. S. 446, to a statute requiring the payment of a license from persons dealing in merchandise, not the growth, produce or manufacture of the State,
and requiring no such license from persons selling goods grown,
produced or manufactured within the State. In McCall v.
California,136 U. S.104, a license tax imposed upon the agent
of a railroad between Chicago and New York soliciting business
in San Francisco, was held to be void. To the same effect are
Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141 U. S.47; Brennan v. Titusville, 153
U. S.289, and Stockard v. Morgan, 185 U. S.27. Finally, in
Caldwell v. North Carolina, 187 U. S.622, another of the same
line of cases, it was held that a city ordinance imposing a license
upon every person engaged in the business of selling or delivering picture frames, etc., was an interference with interstate
commerce, so far as applied to picture frames made in other
States and shipped to an agent inthe State of North Carolina;
and that the transaction was not taken out of the protection
of the commerce clause by the fact that the agent placed the
pictures in their proper frames, and delivered them to the
persons ordering them. Most of the prior cases are noticed
in this opinion.
Indeed, the cases upon this subject are almost too numerous
for citation, and the one under consideration is clearly controlled by them. The sewing machine was made and sold in
another State, shipped to North Carolina in its original pack-

SCHUYLER NATIONAL BANK v. GADSDEN.
191 U. S.

451

Syllabus.

age for delivery to the consignee upon payment of its, price.

It had never become commingled with the general mass of
property within the State. While technically the title of the
machine may not have passed until the price was paid, the
sale was actually made in Chicago, and the fact that the price
was to be collected in North Carolina is too slender a thread
upon which to hang an exception of the transaction from a
rule which would otherwise declare the tax to be an interference with interstate commerce.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of North Carolinais therefore reversed and the case remanded to that court for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES did not participate in the decision of

this case.

SCHUYLER NATIONAL BANK v. GADSDEN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.

No. 50. Argued November 3, 1903.-Decided December 7,1903.
Where usurious interest has been paid to a national bank the remedy afforded by see. 5198, U.S. Revised Statutes, is exclusive and is confined to
an independent action to recover such usurious payment. Hazeltine v.
Central National Bank, 183 U. S. 118.
A claim that usurious interest has been paid on a debt to a national bank
secured by mortgage on real estate given by the debtors to an individual
for the benefit of the bank cannot be asserted under the state law in
foreclosure proceedings in the state courts.
Where the state law does not forbid an agent from taking security for the
benefit of a principal the taking of real estate security by the president
of a national bank for a debt due to the bank is in legal effect the taking
of such security by the bank itself.
The provisions of the United States statutes forbidding the taking of real
estate security by a national bank for a debt coincidently contracted do
not operate to make the security void but simply subject the bank to
be called to account by the government for exceeding its powers.
Logan County v. Townsend, 139 U. S. 67.

