OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

191 U. S.

OWENSBORO v. OWENSBORO WATERWORKS CO.
APPEAL FROMI THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
No. 58. Argued November 4,5, 1903.-Decided November 30,1903.
The power to regulate water rates is a governmental power contiruing in its
nature which, if it can be bargained away at all, can only be by words of
positive grant and if any reasonable doubt exists in regard thereto it
must be resolved in favor of the existence of the power.
An ordinance of a city of Kentucky before it became a city of the third
class giving a water company a right to make and enforce, as part of the
,conditions upon which it would supply consumers, all needful rules and
regulations not inconsistent with the law must be construed as to the
law, as it might be altered, and when the city becomes a city of the
third class and thus has power under the general law to provide the city
with water by contract or by works of its own and to make regulations
for the management thereof and to fix prices to consumers, an ordinance
subsequently enacted during the life of the franchise fixing the price of
water is not void as against the water company under the impairment of
contract clause of the constitution of the United States, and in the absence of other grounds the Circuit Court of the United States has no
jurisdiction of a suit in equity to restrain the enforcement of such last
enacted ordinance, no question of unreasonableness of the rates being
involved.

THIS is a bill in equity to enjoin the city of Owensboro,
Kentucky, from regulating the rates of the appellee, the Owensboro Waterworks Company.
Lawson Reno, police judge of the city, was made a party.
The Circuit Court granted a temporary injunction. Before
final hearing, a motion was made before Circuit Judge Lurton
to dissolve the injunction, the motion was denied on the ground
of the seriousness of the questions involved, and the propriety
of following the previous ruling. On final hearing, the injunction was made perpetual against the city, and the bill dismissed
as to Lawson Reno. The city then took an appeal to Circuit
Court of Appeals. The appeal was dismissed on the ground
that the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court having been invoked

OWENSBORO v. OWENSBORO WATERWORKS CO. 359
191 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

on a constitutional question, the appeal should have been taken
directly to this court. 115 Fed. Rep. 318. The city then
brought the case here from the Circuit Court.
The city asserts the right to regulate the rates of the appellee under a statute of the State. The construction of the
statute is contested by the appellee. The appellee urges, besides, that the statute so interpreted violates its contract with
the city, and that the rates as fixed deprive it (the appellee)
of its property without due process of law. These contentions
make the issues between the parties. The bill is voluminous.
The allegations with which we are concerned are the following:
The appellant was created a city by the general assembly of
Kentucky in 1866. Its charter was amended in 1882, and it
continued under this charter until June, 1893, when it was
made a city of the third class under the general laws of the
State. These laws provided that "the repeal of any law by
the provisions of this law (the charter) shall not in anywise be
so construed as to affect any right or liability acquired or assumed thereunder by or on the part of the city, or any persons
or body corporate. This law shall not in any manner affect
any right, lien or liability accrued, established or subsisting
under and by virtue of previous charters or amendments thereto, or ordinances passed thereunder. But such rights, lien or
liability shall be enforced, and such action or proceeding shall
be carried on in all respects as if this law (defendant city's
present charter) had not taken effect; nor shall this law be in
anywise so construed as to affect the right or liability acquired
or assumed under previous charters or amendments thereto,
or ordinances passed thereunder on the part of the city or any
person or body corporate."
The Owensboro Water Company was incorporated in 1876,
and its general business was to construct and operate a waterworks plant for the purpose of supplying the city and its inhabitants with water, and it constructed and operated such
works under the privilege and authority of an ordinance of the
city, passed September 10, 1878. The ordinance had the usual

OUMolER TEAM, i969.
Statement of the Case.

191 U. S.

provision for the use of the streets, and made the duration of
the grant identical with the duration of the company. It was
provided that the ordinance should be binding upon the city
"as a contract in the event" of its written acceptance within
ten days after its passage, and "be the measure of the rights
and liabilities of the said city and of the water company."
Section 9 of the ordinance was as follows:
"SEc. 9. The said company shall have the power and authority to make and enforce, as part of the condition upon
which it will supply water to its consumers, all needful rules
and regulations, not inconsistent with the law or provisions
of this ordinance."
In June, 1889, the appellee began negotiations with the
Owensboro Water Company for the purchase of its franchise
and plant, and of all of its contracts with the city, but did not
and would not consummate said purchase until the city agreed
to grant it (appellee) a franchise and license to maintain a
system of waterworks in the city for a period of twenty-five
years, and issue and grant to it in its own right all of the rights
and privileges which had theretofore been granted to the water
company by the ordinance and contracts of September 10,
1878. On the 3d of June, 1889, the city passed an ordinance
approving such. purchase, and granted a franchise and license
to the appellee to maintain and operate a waterworks plant for
supplying the city and its inhabitants with water, and accepted the appellee as the successor of the water company to
the contracts between the latter and the city. The ordinance was expressed to be in consideration "of the purchase,
by the Owesboro Waterworks Company of Owensboro, Kentucky, of the waterworks of the Owensboro Water Company."
On the 10th of June, 1889, relying upon the ordinance of the
3d, the appellee consummated the purchase from the water
company of its works, franchises and contracts, and received
them from that company, and it "has ever since then under
the orders and directions" of the city, maintained and extended its system, on account of which it has expended large

OWENSBORO v.
191 U. S.

OWENSBORO WATERWORKS CO. 361
Statement of the Case.

sums of money, and its plant is now reasonably worth not less
than $250,000, and could not be constructed for less than that
sum.
On the 19th of March, 1900, the city passed an ordinance
providing "that hereafter every person, firm, company and
corporation, engaged in the business of furnishing water to
consumers thereof in the city of Owensboro, shall furnish the
same to consumers thereof for domestic and manufacturing
purposes and uses, and for all other purposes and uses, at rates
and prices not exceeding the rates and prices herein named and
fixed, which rates and prices are deemed reasonable and just;
that is to say, water shall be furnished to all mills, laundries,
saloons, distilleries, breweries, livery stables, ice factories and
manufacturing establishments, hotels, street railway companies and all factories of every kind at the following named
rates."
Then followed a statement of the rates fixed, graduated according to the amount of water consumed or kind or purpose
of use. And it was provided (sec. 8), "that if any person, firm,
company or corporation engaged in the business of furnishing
water to consumers thereof in said city of Owensboro shall
demand, charge, exact or receive, directly or indirectly, of or
from any consumer or consumers of water in said city, as consideration or compensation for water furnished or supplied to
such consumer, any money, property or other thing of value
over and above or in excess of the rates and prices for water
herein named and prescribed, or shall fail or refuse for ten days,
without reasonable excuse, to supply water as prescribed and
required in and by section seven (7) of this ordinance; or shall
fail or refuse to keep the accounts, or the books required to be
kept at Owensboro, or make the reports in writing to the common council, as required by section six (6) of this ordinance,
such person, firm, company or corporation so offending shall
be fined, upon conviction, in a sum not less than ten dollars
and not exceeding fifty dollars, for each offense."

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

191 U. S.

The ordinance in full is inserted in the margin.'
It is alleged that the enforcement of the ordinance will cause
appellee irreparable injury and in what manner that will be
I An ordinance to fix and regulate rates, prices and charges for water furnished consumers in the city of Owensboro, and for other purpose*.
Be it ordained by the common council of the city of Owensboro:
SEc. 1. That hereafter every person, firm, company and corporation engaged in the business of furnishing water to consumers thereof in the city
of Owensboro, shall furnish the same to such consumers thereof for domestic
and manufacturing purposes and uses, and for all other purposes and uses,
at rates and prices not exceeding the rates and prices herein named and
fixed, which rates and prices are deemed reasonable and just; that is to say,
water shall be furnished to all mills, laundries, saloons, distilleries, breweries,
livery stables, ice factories, hotels, street railway companies, and all factories
and manufacturing establishments of every kind, at the following-named
rates, subject to the exceptions contained in section two (2) of this ordinance,
to wit:
(1) In all cases where the amount of water consumed averages two thousand gallons per day, or less, estimated by the month, ten cents per thousand
gallons; (2) where the daily consumption of water averages two thousand
gallons, or more, and less than four thousand gallons, estimated by the
month, nine cents per thousand gallons; (3) where the daily consumption
of water averages four thousand gallons, or more, and less than ten thousand
gallons, estimated by the month, eight cents per thousand gallons; (4) where
the daily consumption of water averages ten thousand gallons, or more, and
less than fifteen thousand gallons, estimated by the month, seven cents per
thousand gallons; (5) where the daily consumption of water averages fifteen
thousand gallons, or more, and less than twenty-five thousand gallons,
estimated by the month, five cents per thousand gallons; (6) where the daily
consumption of water averages twenty-five thousand gallons, or more, and
less than forty thousand gallons, estimated by the month, four cents per
thousand gallons; (7) where the daily consumption of water averages forty
thousand gallons, or more, estimated by the month, three and one-half cents
per thousand gallons.
That for the purpose of ascertaining and estimating accurately the quantity of water consumed by consumers in the classification of this section and
the compensation to be paid therefor, it is hereby made the duty of the
persons, firms, companies and corporations, and they shall, on request made
in writing, and within thirty days after such request is made, place a water
meter, in good condition and repair, in connection with the pipe or main
leading into and supplying water to such consumers, and the said meter
shall be kept in good repair by the person, firms, company and corporation
furnishing or supplying the water to such consumers, and the said meters
shall be examined and read monthly, for the purpose of ascertaining its
condition and the quantity of water consumed.

OWENSBORO v. OWENSBORO WATERWORKS CO. 363
191 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

done is detailed, and that, appellee "could not under the most
prudent management, earn any per cent upon its investment,
but would be compelled to operate its plant at an actual loss."
Provided, that the minimum annual rate to be paid by all consumers of
water described in the classifications thereof in this section, per annum, shall
be twenty-four (24) dollars; and in no case shall the consumer of water who
uses or consumes, annually, two hundred and forty thousand gallons of
water, or less, be charged or pay more or less than twenty-four (24) dollars
per annum.
SEC. 2. That water furnished by said persons, firms, companies and corporations to consumers thereof for domestic purposes and uses where no
meter has been put in or attached for ascertaining the quantity of water
used, shall be furnished at rates and charges not exceeding or above the
following-named rates and charges, per year, to wit:
(1) For each wash stand, wherein warm and cold water, or either, is used,
two dollars; (2) for each kitchen sink, wherein warm and cold water, or
either, is used, two dollars; (3) for each bath tub, wherein warm and cold
water, or either, is used, two dollars; (4) for each water closet and urinal,
two dollars; for sprinkling premises, lawn, pavement and street in front of or
adjacent to the premises, per annum, two dollars and fifty cents for the
first two hundred square yards or less, one cent for each additional square
yard; (6) for private dwelling per annum where only one tap or faucet is
used, containing four rooms or less, excluding hallways, garrets, bath rooms,
water closets, two dollars, and for each additional room fifty cents; (7) for
each cow, one dollar, for each horse, one dollar; and for each carriage, buggy
and spring wagon, one dollar; (8) for filling cisterns, twenty cents each
thousand gallons.
SuB. SEc. 2. And for furnishing water for offices, banks, stores and other
places than residences (above specified in this section), the rates and charges
therefor shall be at rates not exceeding or above the following rat6s and
charges, per year, to wit:
For each wash stand, wherein warm and cold water, or either, is used,
three dollars; (2) for each water closet and urinal, three dollars; (3) for
hydrant, three dollars; (4) for barber shops, for first chair, three dollars, for
each additional chair, one dollar; (5) for blacksmiths, for first forge, two
dollars, and for each additional forge, one dollar; (6) for plasterers, onefourth of one cent per square yard; (7) for bricklayers, six cents per one
thousand brick, sprinkling and laying.
Provided, that any of the consumers embraced in the classification of this
section may, in lieu of the above rates, require the person, firm, company or
corporation furnishing the water to the consumer, to attach to the pipe
leading into the premises of the consumer, a water meter, and it shall be
the duty of the person, firm, company or corporation furnishing the water
to attach the said meter within thirty days after said request is made therefor in writing, and thereafter the said consumer shall be charged, and shall

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Statement of the Case.

191 U. S.

For the reasons alleged the ordinance of March 19 violates
the constitution of the State of Kentucky and the Fifth and
Fourteenth Amendments of the Constitution of the United
pay for the water furnished at the minimum rate of twelve dollars per annum,
and for all water consumed in excess of one hundred and twenty thousand
gallons per annum there shall be paid ten cents for each thousand gallons;
but such meters shall not be attached except by the written request of the
consumer.
And, provided further, that before meters are attached to or connected
with the pipes or mains leading into the premises of any consumer described
in the classification of this section, by the person, firm, company or corporation supplying the water, consent of such consumer shall be first obtained,
and if objection shall be made by the consumer, the mayor of the city, upon
complaint by the person, firm, company or corporation furnishing the water,
shall summon the consumer to appear before him, and shall hear and determine the matter, and decide whether the meter shall be attached, and his
decision shall be final.
If said persons, firms, companies or corporations furnishing water shall
attach a meter in any case to the pipe leading into any consumer's premises,
without his consent, or against his objection, and the water annually consumed shall not be as much as one hundred and twenty thousand gallons,
the consumer shall pay for the water actually consumed at the rate of ten
cents per thousand gallons, and no more.
SEC. 3. That water rates may be collected by said persons, firms, companies and corporations from all consumers falling within the provisions of
sections one and two of this ordinance who have water meters attached,
monthly, quarterly, or semi-annually, at the election of said persons, firms,
companies or corporations furnishing the water, but water rates shall not
be collected in advance except by voluntary consent of the consumer.
Water may be shut off from any consumer for non-payment of water rates,
or other sufficient reason, only after ten days' written notice served upon
said consumer or his wife, in his absence from home, or in case of absence
from premises of both husband and wife, then the said notice shall be delivered by depositing same in the Owensboro post office addressed to said
water consumer.
SEc. 4. That if any person, firm, company or corporation shall be or become a consumer of water, and shall not be included in the classification
made and contained in the second section of this ordinance, the quantity
of water used or consumed by such consumer shall be ascertained by meter
and compensation made therefor at the rates and charges specified in the
first section of this ordinance.
SEc. 5. That all persons, firms, companies or corporations furnishing water
to consumers in the city of Owenshoro, that shall have mains, pipes and conduits in the streets, alleys and public ways of the city, shall hereafter,
during the months of April, May, June, July, August, September, October,

OWENSBORO v. OWENSBORO WATERWORKS CO. 365
191 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

States. It is also alleged, with much amplification, that the
passage of the ordinance was "ex parte and partisan," without
deliberation or investigation or knowledge, and, besides, the
November in each year, cause all water mains of said persons, firms, companies and corporations to be washed and cleaned, and for this purpose shall
cause all fire hydrants to be open to their full capacity and water discharged
from each for at least five minutes once in every two weeks; and during the
months of December, January, February and March shall, for said purpose,
cause all fire hydrants to be open to their full capacity for at least five minutes once in each and every of said months last mentioned.
SEc. 6. That hereafter all persons, firms, companies and corporations
engaged in the business of furnishing water to consumers shall keep an exact,
complete and true account of all its incomes, gains and receipts from all and
every source whatever, in detail, giving all the items thereof, and date of
receipt of the same, and an exact, complete and true account of all expenditures, showing date and amount of each and every item of expense, costs
and expenditure and the whole thereof; and the books containing said accounts shall be kept at Owensboro, and shall be open at any time to inspection and examination by the common council or a committee thereof
appointed for that purpose, and shall make and return to the common
council, at the end of each six months hereafter, on the first day of January and July of each year, a true and complete summary of the same,
which shall be verified by the oath of the president, secretary or treasurer
of said persons, firms, companies or corporations furnishing water, and the
said report shall be spread on the journal and filed and preserved by the
city clerk in his office.
SEc. 7. That it shall be the duty of any person, firm, company or corporation engaged in the business of furnishing water to consumers thereof, in
the city of Owensboro, through pipes, mains or conduits laid in the streets,
alleys and ways of said city, to furnish water to all persons who may make
application thereof in writing, and within ten days after the date fixed in
such written application, and who desire the same furnished in houses or
places situated on any of the streets, alleys or ways or places in the city,
wherein any of the said mains, pipes or conduits are located or laid, and the
said person, firm, company or corporation shall put down all necessary pipes
therefor, at the expense of the person, firm, company or corporation furnishing the water to the boundary line of the lot or premises of the applicant for
water or consumer, and the remainder of the pipes, machinery or appliances
necessary for conveying the water into the houses or upon the premises shall
be borne by the said applicant or consumer of water.
SEC. 8. That if any person, firm, company or corporation engaged in the
business of furnishing water to consumers thereof in said city of Owensboro
shall demand, charge, exact, or receive, directly or indirectly, of or from any
consumer or consumers of water in said city, as consideration or compensation for water furnished or supplied to such consumer, any money, property

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

had no power to pass the ordinance, and that the latter
violates the contract existing between appellee and the city.
It is also alleged that financial injury will result to appellee
from the enforcement of the ordinance in regard to meters
(see. 2), and from the prohibition to collect rates in advance,
"except by voluntary consent of the consumer." (See. 3.)
Prosecutions are threatened under the ordinance which will
result, it is alleged, in irreparable injury to appellee, and an
injunction is hence prayed against the city.
A demurrer to the bill was overruled. An answer was then
filed, which denied the allegations of the bill and justified the
action of the city.

-city

Mr. George W. Jolly for appellant.
Mr. William T. Ellis and Mr. Robert W. Bingham for appellee. Mr. W. W. Davis was on the brief.
AIR. JUSTICE

MCKnNNA, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
By the act of the general assembly of Kentucky, approved
June 14, 1893, the appellant was made a city of the third class,
and was given, as a city of that class, the following powers
expressed in section 3290: "The common council of said city
shall, within the limitations of the constitution of the State
and this act, have power by ordinance; . . . 5th, to proor other thing of value over and above, or in excess of the rates and prices
for water herein named and prescribed; or shall fail or refuse for ten days,
without reasonable excuse, to supply water as prescribed and required, in
and by section seven (7) of this ordinance, or shall fail or refuse to keep the
accounts, or the books required to be kept at Owensboro, or make the reports
in writing to the common council, as required by section six (6) of this ordinance, such person, firm, company or corporation so offending shall be fined,
upon conviction, in a sum not less than ten dollars and not exceeding fifty
dollars, for each offense.
Suc. 9. This ordinance shall go into full force and effect on and after the
first day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred.
Approved, March 21st, 1900.

OWENSBORO v. OWENSBORO WATERWORKS CO. 367
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

vide the city and the inhabitants thereof with water, light,
power, heat and telephone service, by contract, or by works
of its own, located either within or beyond the boundaries of
the city. To make regulations for the management thereof,
and to fix and regulate the prices to consumers and customers."
Under this section the city passed the ordinance which prescribes the rates and regulations complained of. The Circuit
Court decided that the city was not given the power to pass
the ordinance, and considered it unnecessary to pass on the
other issues. The court said:
"If the city of Owensboro had no lawful power or authority
to pass the ordinance at all, then the enforcement of it would
clearly be a taking from the complainant of its right to certain
property. First, without compensation; second, without due
process of law; third, without giving to it the equal protection
of the law.
"This makes it necessary to inquire whether the city had
the statutory power and authority to pass the ordinance complained of. It does not seem to be needful to inquire whether
the state constitution gives the general assembly power to
delegate authority in the premises to the city. The initial
proposition is, has the legislature done so in fact, whether it
had the power or not? This must depend upon the proper
interpretation and construction of section 3290 of the Kentucky Statutes,

"

Interpreting the section the court held that the word "thereof" in the last sentence of the section had for its antecedent
the words "works of its own." Substituting these words for
the word "thereof," the sentence would read, and the city's
power would be, "to make regulations for the management of
its own works, and to fix and regulate the prices to consumers
and customers." But another ambiguity appears, viz., of what
is the city to fix and regulate the prices ? Certainly of something, and it would seem from the context, the same thing, of
which it was to regulate the management. But this leads to
an absurdity, and we must frd a purpose (antecedent) to which

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

both powers can refer. The city might, indeed, make regulations for the management of its works, but it could not fix and
regulate the price of them to consumers and customers. Besides, we cannot conceive that an explicit grant of power was
necessary to enable the city to manage its own works. The
power to construct would have implied the power to manage
and operate. It must not be overlooked that the section was
intended to apply not only to the appellant city but to all
cities of the third class, and confer power not only to provide
water, but other services, and it might have seemed necessary,
or at any rate prudent, to the legislature to reserve to the
cities the power over the management of works constructed by
private persons, and as prudent to reserve a power to fix and
regulate the prices to consumers of the services afforded. It
is certainly not difficult to conceive the necessity of the exercise of those powers, and if attempted to be exercised without
a reservation, the cities might be met (and there are examples
of this) with the contention that the power had been bartered
away and was precluded by the obligation of a contract. The
construction urged by appellee must, therefore, be rejected.
There is a more natural one. The purpose of section 3290 was
to provide the inhabitants of cities of the third class with the
services mentioned-water, light, power, heat and telephone.
They could be provided by the cities directly or they could be
provided by private persons; but whatever way provided, the
power was given to regulate the management and fix the rates
of the services, and this was but the endowment of a common
governmental power.
It is, however, contended that the ordinance is in violation
of the contracts between the city and appellee, constituted by
the resolutions and ordinance of the 3d of June, 1889. The
argument is that the city had entered into contracts with the
Owensboro Water Company, the predecessor of appellee, to
which contracts and their obligations and rights, it is contended, the appellee succeeded by assignment from the water
company, with the consent and approval of the city as ex-

OWENSBORO v. OWENSBORO WATERWORKS CO. 369
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

pressed in the resolutions and ordinance of June 3, 1889. To
determine their legal effect, however, it will be necessary to
consider the law which authorized them. ,
At the time of the passage of the ordinance granting the
Owensboro Water Company the right to construct waterworks
the city existed and was exercising its powers under the charter
of 1878, and the provision in that for supplying water to the
inhabitants of the city was as follows: "To make, establish and
regulate wells, cisterns, reservoirs and pumps, and to provide
for the furnishing of the city and the inhabitants thereof with
water and gas."
The same provision was carried into the charter of 1882, and
constituted the authority of the city when the ordinance and
resolutions of June, 1889, were passed. It is contended that
this provision gave the city no power to fix the rates. And
counsel say: "In such case and in the absence of an express
contract the individual or corporation furnishing water for
domestic purposes may charge whatever seems right and reasonable."
But counsel go further. They deny the right of the city to
fix rates, and yet assert its power to enter into an irrevocable
contract with the water company giving it such power, that is,
giving it power to fix rates free from any regulation by the city,
not only under any authority the city then possessed, but
under any authority the city might be given by the legislature.
In this contention there are several elements, but we pass
their consideration, and determine what contracts, if any, the
city entered into with the water company. Of course, it is
implied in the grant to the company that it might charge some
rates to consumers, but the question is, were those rates exempt
from regulation by the city under any power it then had or
might be given? An affirmative answer is contended for by
the appellee under sections 9, 10 and 14 of the granting ordinance. Section 9 is the pivotal section. The others are complementary. By it the company was given "power and
authority to make and enforce as a partof the condition [italics
voL. oxci-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

ours] upon which it will supply water to its consumers, all
needful rules and regulations [italics ours], not inconsistent with
the law or provisions of this ordinance." The section is concerned with the rules between the company and consumers
alone. The company may enforce all needful rules and regulations as part of the condition upon which it will supply water.
What is the other part of the condition? It must be the payment of rates, but to that part of the condition the power to
make regulations does not apply. It would ignore the distinctions made by the section and give besides the words "rules
and regulations" too large a meaning to make them include the
power of fixing rates to consumers. They have adequate and
useful signification without that. There were many things in
the supply of water to consumers and in the orderly and prudent conduct of the business of the company which might need
rules and regulations.
And even so construed, the power conferred is not without
limitation. The rules and regulations must not be inconsistent "with the law," and this means not only as the law was
when the ordinance was passed, but as the law might become.
Ruggles v. Illinois, 108 U. S. 526; Railroad Commission Cases,
116 U. S. 307. In the latter cases a grant of power to the railroad company was "to make and prescribe such by-laws, rules,
and regulations as they shall deem needful and proper touchall matters whatsoever which may appertain to
ing . .
the concerns of said company." The company was also given
the power "from time to time to fix, regulate, and receive the
toll and charges by them to be received for transportation of
persons and property on their railroad." From this grant of
power it was claimed that the company had "the right of
managing its own affairs and regulating its charges for the
transportation of persons and property, free of all legislative
control." Mr. Chief Justice Waite, speaking for the court,
replied: "This power of regulation is a power of government,
continuing in its nature, and if it can be bargained away at
all it can only be by words of positive grant, or something

OWENSBORO v. OWENSBORO WATERWORKS CO. 371
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

which is in law equivalent. If there is reasonable doubt, it
must be resolved in favor of the existence of the power."
This doctrine has been affirmed numbers of times since.
FreeportWater Co. v. FreeportCity, 180 U. S. 587; Rogers Park
Water Co. v. Fergus, 180 U. S. 624; City of Joplin v. Southwest Missouri Light Co., ante, p. 150. And the same doctrine
prevails in Kentucky. Winchester &c. Turnpike Road Co. v.
Croxton, 98 Kentucky, 739.
From these views it follows that if the city had no power
under the charters of 1866 and 1882 to fix rates, and we only
assume this, not decide it, such power was conferred by section 3290 of the act of June 14, 1893, and the city is not precluded from the exercise of that power by sections 9, 10 and 14
of the original ordinance granting the Owensboro Water Company the right to construct waterworks, nor by the ordinance
of June 3, 1889, approving the transfer of the rights and contracts of that company to the Owensboro Waterworks Company, the appellee herein. Nor is the city, by said ordinance,
precluded from regulating the business of the appellee in the
manner provided in the ordinance of March 9, 1900, whibh is
the subject of the present controversy. It is true that it is
contended that section 3 of the ordinance forbids the appellee
from collecting rates in advance from all consumers. But the
city does not contend for that construction. It claims only
that the provisions in regard to the collection of rates in advance
apply only to consumers using meters, and even as to those
consumers appellee can make reasonable regulations to secure
the payment of rates. The ordinance is not absolutely clear,
and we may resolve its ambiguities in accordance with the concession of the city. It may be presumed that there was no
intention to enact unreasonable and oppressive regulations.
Two other contentions remain to be considered-one made
by appellant, and the other made by the appellee. .It is difficult to assign a place or purpose in the discussion of the issues
to that made by the appellant. The contention is that the
Owensboro Water Company had no power to transfer its prop-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

erty and rights and franchises to the appellee. To what consequence is the contention directed? Surely the city wants an
object for its regulation. The appellee is in possession of the
waterworks, and is supplying the inhabitants of the city with
water. It is that service which the city desires to regulate,
and it is to "every person, firm, company and corporation"
engaged in that service the ordinance of March 21, 1900, is
addressed. No other person, firm or corporation than the
appellee is so engaged in Owensboro, or has been so engaged
for some years. We do not think that the legality of the ordinance can be questioned or measured by either the company
or the city by the defects or perfections of the title of the company to its franchises or property. It may be, however, that
it is not intended to press the contention so far, but to confine
it to the denial of the exemption claimed by appellee as successor of the Owensboro Water Company. But, as we hold
that the Owensboro Water Company had no such exemption,
the contention becomes unimportant.
The other contention made by appellee is that the rates fixed
by the city are unreasonable. Upon this contention we shall
not pass. It depends upon many questions of fact and of
values to which the Circuit Court gave no attention and on
which it expressed no judgment. It is better for a trial court
to determine such. questions in the first instance. Chicago,
Milwaukee &c. Ry. v. Tompkins, 176 U. S. 167, 179.
Decree of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the case remanded
for further proceedings in accordance with this opinion.

