PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO. v. HUGHES.
191 U3.S.

Syllabus.

Was he hurled there by the impact of the train? If that were
possible, how came his legs to be crushed? Not by the runaway
car, because that had passed; not by train 78, for he had been
cast aside and away from that. The circumstances, therefore,
seem to indicate that he was not struck by train 78, but was
run over by the runaway car, and, we think, there is nothing
inconsistent with that conclusion in his statement. His situation was horrible. If in our different situation we may venture
to judge of it at all, we may wonder that he had or could retain
any preception of what had occurred. Certainly exact accuracy of statement could not have been expected of him, and
to his shocked and almost overwhelmed senses it might well
have seemed that not one car only, but a train of cars had run
over him. Finding no error in the record, the judgment is
Affirmed.

PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO. v. HUGHES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREIE COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 56. Argued November 5, 1903.-Decided December 7, 1903.
A bill of lading was given in New York State for transporting a horse to a,
point in Pennsylvania, containing a clause limiting the carrier's liability to
a stipulated value in consideration of the rate paid, the shipper having
been offered a bill of lading without such limitation on payment of a'
higher rate signed a memorandum accepting the contract at the lower rate.
The common law as interpreted by the courts of New York and the
Federal courts permits a common carrier to limit by contract his liability
for his own negligence; as interpreted by the courts of Pennsylvania he
cannot so limit it. On writ of error to review a judgment recovered in a
state court of Pennsylvania by the shipper for damages caused by the
negligence of the carrier in excess of the limited amount:
feld that the jurisdiction of this court to review a judgment of a state
court under sec. 709, U. S. Revised Statutes, depends upon the assertion
of a right, privi]ege or immunity under the Federal Constitution or laws
set up and denied in the state courts.
Ye4 that the highest court of a State may administer the common law 4c

,

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

191 U. S.

cording to its own understanding and interpretation thereof, being only
amenable to review in this court where some immunity or privilege
created by the Federal power has been asserted and denied.
Held that while Congress under its power may provide for contracts for
interstate commerce permitting the carrier to limit its liability to a stipulated valuation, it does not appear that Congress has, up to the present
time, sanctioned contracts of this nature; and, in the absence of Congressional legislation on the subject, a State may require common
carriers, although in the execution of interstate business, to be liable for
the whole loss resulting from their own negligence, a contract to the contrary notwithstanding.
There is no difference in the application of a principle based on the manner
in which a State requires a degree of care and responsibility whether
enacted into a statute or resulting from the rules of law enforced in its
courts.

THE defendants in error brought suit in the Court of Common
Pleas of Philadelphia against the Pennsylvania Railroad Company, to recover for injuries to a horse shipped by them from
Albany in the State of New York to Cynwyd, in the State of
Pennsylvania. The shipment was under a bill of lading of the
New York Central and Hudson River Railroad Company, bearing date of August 10, 1900. It recited the receipt of the
horseto destination, if on the said
"for transportation from carrier's line of railroad otherwise to the place where said live
stock is to be received by the connecting carriers for transportation to or toward destination, and that the same has been
received by said carrier for itself and on behalf of connecting
carriers, for transportation, subject to the official tariffs, classifications and rules of the said company, and upon the following
terms and conditions, which are admitted and accepted by the
said shipper as just and reasonable, viz:
"That said shipper, or the consignee, is to pay freight thereon
to the said carrier at the rate of - per -, which is the lower
published tariff rate, upon the express condition that the carrier assumes liability on the said live stock to the extent only
of the following agreed valuation, upon which valuation is
based the rate charged for the transportation of the said
animals, and beyond which valuation neither the said carrier

PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO. v. HUGHES.
191 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

nor any connecting carrier shall be liable in any event, whether
the loss or damage occur through the negligence of the said
carrier or connecting carriers, or their employ6s or otherwise.
"If horses or mules-not exceeding one hundred dollars
each."
The through rate of freight was not filled out in the blanks
in the shipping receipt or the bill of lading, but was collected
by the agent of the Pennsylvania Railroad Company at Cynwyd, and it appears was the reduced tariff rate usually charged
on such shipments where the limited liability clause above
recited is inserted. The shipper signed the bill of lading,
which contained the following stipulations:
"Thomas Grady does hereby acknowledge that he had the
option of shipping the above-described live stock at a higher
rate of freight according to the official tariffs, classifications
and rules of the said carrier and connecting carriers, and thereby
receiving the security of the liability of the said carrier and
connecting railroad and transportation companies, as common
carriers of the said live stock, upon their respective roads and
lines, but has voluntarily decided to ship the same under this
contract at the reduced rate of freight above first mentioned."
The agreement further provided:
"No carrier shall be liable for loss or damage not occurring
on its own road or its portion of the through route, nor after
said property is ready for delivery to the next carrier or to
consignee. The amount of any loss or damage for which any
carrier becomes liable shall be computed at the value of the
property at the place and time of shipment under this bill of
lading, unless a lower value has been agreed upon or is determined by the classification upon which the rate is based, in
either or which events such lower value shall be the maximum
price to govern such computation."
Upon the trial the jury returned a verdict in favor of the
plaintiff for $10,000 and judgment was rendered accordingly.
The horse was transported in safety to the end of the lihe of
the receiving carrier and delivered to the defendant company,

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

191 U. S.

and injured while the car in which he was shipped was standing
on the track of the Pennsylvania Railroad Company in the city
of Philadelphia, it being run into by heavily laden cars.
Upon appeal to the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, the
judgment was affirmed. 202 Pa. St. 222.
Mr. John G. Johnson for plaintiff in erior:
The common law of the United States as interpreted by
this court permits carriers, in the course of interstate commerce, in consideration of making a reduced rate, to limit
their liability to a designated valuation. Hartv. P. R. R. Co.,
112 U. S. 331, and cases cited, in which the rule is laid down
which has been sustained by later decisions. Phenix Ins. Co.
v. Erie & Western TransportationCo., 117 U. S. 312; Liverpool
Steam Co. v. Phenix Ins. Co., 129 U. S. 397; New York &c.
R. R. Co. v. Estill, 147 U. 5. 591; Primrose v. West. Un. Tel.,
154 U. S. 1; Chicago, Milwaukee &c. Ry. Co. v. Solan, 169 U. S.
133; Calderon v. Atlas Steamship Co., 170 U. 5. 272; and Queen
of the Pacific, 180 U. S. 49.
In reaching its conclusion, this court interpreted the common law of the United States as the same exists in every State,
including the State of Pennsylvania. West. Un. Tel. Co. v.
Call Pub. Co., 181 U. S. 101.
A contract for an interstate transportation, especially one
valid where made, is not subject to inconsistent public policies
nor to any other public policy than that of the United States.
Morgan v. New Orleans &c. R. R. Co., 2 Woods, 244; S. C.,
17 Fed. Cas. 754, cited in Liverpool Co. v. Phoenix Ins. Co., 129
U. S. 397,-and see Hale v. NavigationCo.,, 15 Connecticut, 538.
There is no public policy such as was supposed to exist by
the learned trial judge. This court has so held and the courts
of Pennsylvania have refused to enforce contracts exclusively
within the jurisdiction of the Federal laws, and which, under
such laws, are valid. If, therefore, a public policy in any State
interferes with interstate commerce it must yield to the superior rights of those interested in the latter. Though such public

PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO. v. HUGHES.
191 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

policy may control commerce within the State, it is utterly
inefficacious as regards commerce between the States.
The bill of lading in the present case was an entire contract
stipulating for an entire transportation from one State to another, though performable at different points by different connecting carriers. It could not be held valid in one part and
invalid in another, inasmuch as one consideration was paid
for the whole service. The shipper received in New York, for
the transportation through New York, a benefit which, under
the laws of New York, resulted from the contract. This consideration sustained the contract in all its parts. An entire
contract is not subject to several inconsistent public policies.
A state law or state policy which interferes with or regulates
interstate commerce, is void because it is exclusively within
the power of Congress to regulate such commerce and such
power has been exercised by the Interstate Commerce Act of
1887.
A State cannot interfere, whether by an act passed before
the Interstate Commerce Act, or thereafter, or by its so-called
common law, or by its so-called public policy. If there is any
public policy of Pennsylvania which condemns the contract,
it cannot be one found in the common law of the United States.
This court has so said. It must be the result of something
peculiar to the law of Pennsylvania. The purpose of the
Interstate Commerce Act of 1887 and as amended was to
compel the exaction of reasonable rates; to bring about shipments connectedly and continuously from one State to another;
to bring about by agreements between the carriers the establishment of joint rates; to compel the publication of such joint
rates for through traffic; and to prohibit departures from the
rates as published. See original act 24 Stats. U. S. 379, 382,
and amendments, 25 Stat. 855, 856.
No State could prescribe to a common carrier engaged in
interstate transportation its rates for such transportation. It
can compel neither the raising nor the lowering of the same.
It necessarily raises the rate of interstate carriage if it deprives
voL. OxZi-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

191 U. S.

the carrier and shipper of the ability to make bargains upon
terms mutually satisfactory, which bring about a reduction of
the cost of transporfation. Hall v. DeCuir, 95 U. S. 485;
Wabash &c. Ry. Co. v. Illinois, 118 U. S. 557, 572, and cases
cited; C. C. C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Illinois, 177 U. S. 514.
A state statute, valid before an act of Congress, must yield
to the latter. Kaukauna Co. v. Green Bay &c. Canal, 142
U. S. 254.
The Federal question involved in this appeal is properly
raised upon the record. M. K. & T. Ry. Co. v. Elliott, 184
U. S. 533, and cases cited; Sully v. Am. Nat. Bank, 178 U. S.
298; Erie R. R. Co. v. Purdy, 185 U. S. 153; Fire Assn. v. New
York, 119 U. S. 110, 115; Jacobi v. Alabama, 187 U. S. 133;
Home for Incurables v. New York, 187 U. S. 155; Detroit &c.
Ry. Co. v. Osborn, 189 U. S. 383; Kaukauna Co. v. Canal,
142 U. S. 254, and cases cited p. 269.
Mr. A. S. L. Shields for defendants in error:
This court has no jurisdiction to review the judgment of the
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania. The Federal question was
not raised on the trial and the Supreme Court of the State
never considers questions not raised on the trial. Walls v.
Campbell, 125 Pennsylvania, 346; Hartley v. Decker, 89 Pennsylvania, 470; Bank v. Schuylkill Co., 190 Pennsylvania, 188.
The jurisdiction of this court to review the judgment of the
highest court of a State is purely statutory, and will in all cases
be strictly confined to questions arising under the provisions
of section 709 of the Revised Statutes of the United States.
Beals v. Cone, 188 U. S. 184; Hamblin v. Western Land Co., 147
U. S. 531, and cases cited; New Orleans W. W. Co. v. Louisiana,
185 U. S. 336; EquitableLife v. Brown, 187 U. S. 308; San Joss
Land Co. v. San Joss Ranch Co., 189 U. S. 177; Onandago
Nation v. Thacher, 189 U. S. 306.
Nothing in the rule of Pennsylvania law applied in this case
justifies the assumption that it interferes with or regulates
interstate commerce.

PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO. v. HUGHES.
191 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

The rule of Pennsylvania law applied here is that the policy
of her laws prohibits a corporation created by her and transacting the business of a common carrier within her borders
from limiting its liability for negligence by any form of contract, and that this rule will be applied by Pennsylvania courts
to a contract made by a Pennsylvania corporation through an
agent in another State. Forepaughv. Delaware&c. R. Co., 128
Pennsylvania, 217, 230; Fairchildv. Philadelphia &c. R. Co.,
148 Pennsylvania, 527, as explained in the opinion of the
Pennsylvania Supreme Court in the case at bar. Hart v. P.
R. R. Co., 112 U. S. 331, not applicable.
The Federal power to regulate interstate commerce, however
absolute and exclusive, is not a complete denial of the power
of a State to control its own corporations engaged in interstate
commerce. Many state laws in the nature of police regulations of such corporations have been sustained, although it was
admitted that such laws had an incidental effect upon interstate
commerce. A state statute prohibiting a corporation from
exempting itself from liability as a common carrier by any form
of contract, has been sustained as not amounting to a regulation of interstate commerce, and as within the power of the
State to adopt, in spite of its incidental effect upon interstate
commerce. Chicago, Milwaukee &c. Ry. v. Solan, 169 U. S.
133, and cases cited.
The case just cited has been affirmed several times. Richmond, etc., R. Co. v. Patterson Tobacco Co., 169 U. S. 311, 315;
Missouri,etc., Ry. Co. v. Haber, 169 U. S. 613, 627; Calderonv.
Atlas Steamship Co., 170 U. S. 272, 282; Lake Shore, etc., Ry.
Co. v. Ohio, 173 U. S. 285, 296; Cleveland, etc., Ry. Co. v.JIllinois,
177 U. S. 514, 517.
The alleged right to sue out a writ or error in this court depended upon the existence of a Federal question, which was
decided adversely to the appellant by the Pennsylvania Supreme Court. Since no such Federal question arose in the case,
this court will decline to interfere with the policy of Pennsylvania law as declared by the highest court of that State.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

Appellant only has succeeded in showing that a conflict
exists in the policy of the law administered by two separate
tribunals, each of which is supreme within its own sphere and
has failed entirely in the effort to show that he has any standing
in this court.
The appellant cannot import a Federal question into the
facts of this case by arguments drawn from "the common law
of the United States " which is said to promulgate "the public
policy of the United States."
The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania has respectfully asserted
its right to an independent opinion upon the rule laid down in
Hart v. P. R. R?. Co., 112 U. S. 331; Grogan v. Adams Express
Co., 114 Pennsylvania, 523, 528.
MR. JUSTIcU

DAY, after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
The right to review the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Pennsylvania herein depends upon the proper assertion of a
right or privilege under the Federal Constitution or statutes
which was denied to the plaintiff in error by the adverse holding of the state court.
Upon the trial in the Common Pleas Court, it was contended
that the special contract above recited limited the recovery
of the plaintiff to the sum of one hundred dollars. The court
refused to so charge, but, holding that the policy and law of
Pennsylvania, as declared by her courts of last resort, did not
permit such limitations on the liability of common carriers,
left to the jury to determine the value of the horse and the
question of the negligence of the defendant.
In view of being carried to the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, two errors were assigned to the refusal of the court to
charge:
"1. That it was lawful in the State of New York for the
carrier to limit its liability by a special contract for an injury
resulting from its negligence; that said contract having been

PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO. v. HUGHES.
191 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

for a through consignment from Albany to Cynwyd, a place
within this State, said contract must be considered in its
entirety, and is incapable of divisibility; that said contract
having stipulated for an agreed valuation of the stock shipped,
the parties must be governed by its terms throughout the
entire route, as said contract must be interpreted and enforced
here by the law of the place where it was made, and within
which State it is partly performed; and that consequently the
plaintiff is not entitled to recover in excess of the valuation
agreed upon by the parties at the time of shipment.
"2. That the plaintiff is not entitled to recover in excess of
$100.,,
Neither of these assignments of error presents a Federal
question in such sense as to give this court jurisdiction to
review the judgment of the state court under section 709 of
the Revised Statutes of the United States. Nothing is better
settled in Federal jurisprudence than that the jurisdiction of
this court in such cases depends upon the assertion of a right,
title, privilege or immunity under the Federal Constitution or
laws set up and denied in the state courts. Beals v. Cone, 188
U. S. 184.
The first error assigned in the Common Pleas Court raised
the question as to the law of the contract. It does not assert
that any Federal right was invaded or denied. It seems to
have been conceded at the trial that the law of the State of
New York where the contract was made permitted the making
of a contract limiting the liability of the carrier to the agreed
valuation in consideration of the lower freight rate for carriage,
the shipper having the opportunity to have the larger liability
for the value of the goods if the higher rate of freight for carriage was paid. This rule also prevails in the courts of the
United States, Hart v. Railroad, 112 U. S. 331, wherein it was
held that a contract fairly made and signed by the shipper,
agreeing on a valuation of the property carried, with a rate
of freight based on such valuation, on the condition that the
carrier assume liability only to the extent of such agreed valua-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

tion, in case of loss by the negligence of the carrier, will be
upheld as a proper and lawful mode of securing a due proportion between the amount for which the carrier is responsible
and the freight received, and of protecting the -carrier against
extravagant valuations. But this is not a question of Federal
law wherein the decision of the highest Federal tribunal is of
conclusive authority. In Grogan v. Adams Express Co., 114
Pa. St. 523, the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania expressly
declined to follow the rule laid down in Hart v. Railroad,
adhering to its own declared doctrine denying the right of a
common carrier to thus limit its liability for injuries resulting
from negligence. The cases are numerous and conflicting,
different rules prevailing in different States. The Federal
courts in cases of which they have jurisdiction will doubtless
continue to follow the rule of the Hart case, but the highest
court of Pennsylvania may administer the common law according to its understanding and interpretation of it, being
only amenable to review in the Federal Supreme Court where
some right, title, immunity or privilege, the creation of the
Federal power, has been asserted and denied. Bethellv. Demaret, 10 Wall. 537; Delmas v. Ins. Co., 14 Wall. 661; Ins. Co. v.
Hendren, 92 U. S.286; UnitedStates v. Thompson, 93 U. S.587.
In the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania a further assignment
of error was made as follows:
"III. The learned court below erred in entering judgment
in conflict with the act of Congress of February 4, 1887, entitled 'An act to regulate commerce.' Section 1 of said act
clearly provides that where the transportation is from one
State to another, under a through bill of lading, its provisions
shall be carried out, unless it be in conflict with a statute of
the State in which it may be performed, or in conflict with the
policy of the United States as laid down in the Federal courts,
and that, as the contract was valid in the place where made,
and, as there is no statute in Pennsylvania prohibitory of an
agreed valuation to establish a rate, and as it is consistent with
the policy of the United States as declared by the Federal

PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO. v. HUGHES.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

courts, the judgment should have been for the valuation mentioned in the contract."
Of this assignment of error, Mr. Justice Potter, delivering
the opinion of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, said (p. 229):
"The third assignment of error suggests that the entry of
judgment is in conflict with the interstate commerce act of
Congress. This seems to be an afterthought, as there is no
indication in the record that this question was raised or considered in the court below. It is not apparent how the act
can have any application to this case. It contains nothing
bearing upon the validity of a contract limiting the liability
of a railroad for loss or injury caused by negligence. The
object of the act seems to be to secure continuous carriage, and
uniform rates, and to compel the furnishing of equal facilities.
We cannot see that the entry of judgment in this case interferes in any way with the legitimate exercise of interstate
commerce."
Upon the authority of Missouri, Kawas &c. R. R. Co. v.
Elliott, 184 U. S. 530, it may be admitted that the question of
the decision of the state court beitg in contravention of the
legislation of Congress to regulate interstate commerce, was
sufficiently made, and the adverse decision to the party claiming the benefit of that act, gives rise to the right of review here.
In refusing to limit the recovery to the valuation: agreed upon,
did the state court deny to the company a right or privilege
secured by the interstate commerce law? It may be assumed
that under the broad power conferred upon Congress over
interstate commerce as defined in repeated decisions of this
court, it would be lawful for that body to make provision as
to contracts for interstate carriage, permitting the carrier to
imit its liability to a particular sum in consideration of lower
freight rates for transportation. But upon examination of
the terms of the law relied upon we fail to find any such provision therein. The sections of the interstate commerce law
relied upon by the learned counsel for plaintiff in error, 24
Stat. at L., 379, 382; 25 U. S. Stat. at L., 855, provide for equal

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

facilities to shippers for the interchange of traffic; for nondiscrimination in freight rates; for keeping schedules of rates
open to public inspection; for posting the same in public places,
with certain particulars as to charges, rules and regulations;
for the publication of joint tariff rates for continuous transportation over one or more lines, to be made public when
directed by the Interstate Commerce Commission; against advances in joint tariff rates except after ten days' notice to the
commission; against reduction of joint tariff rates except after
three days' like notice; making it unlawful for any party to a
joint tariff to receive or demand a greater or less compensation
for the transportation of property between points as to which
a joint tariff is made different than is specified in the schedule
filed with the commission; giving remedies for the enforcement
of the foregoing provisions, and providing penalties for their
violation; making it unlawful to prevent continuous carriage,
and providing that no break of bulk, stoppage or interruption
by the carrier, unless made in good faith for some necessary
purpose without intention to evade the act, shall prevent the
carriage of freights from being treated as one continuous carriage from the place of shipment to the place of destination.
While under these provisions it may be said that Congress
has made it obligatory to provide proper facilities for interstate carriage of freight, and has prevented carriers from
obstructing continuous shipments on interstate lines, we look
in vain for any regulation of the matter here in controversy.
There is no sanction of agreements of this character limiting
liability to stipulated valuations, and, until Congress shall
legislate upon it, is there any valid objection to the State
enforcing its own regulations upon the subject, although it
may to this extent indirectly affect interstate commerce contracts of carriage?
It is well settled that the State may make valid enactments
in the exercise of its legislative power to promote the welfare
and convenience of its citizens, although in their operation they
may have an effect upon interstate traffic.

PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO. v. HUGHES.
191 U. S.

Opimion of the Court.

In M. K. & T. Ry. v. Haber, 169 U. S. 613, 635, after reviewing previous cases in this court, Mr. Justice Harlan, delivering
the opinion of the court, says:
"4These cases all proceed upon the ground that the regulation
of the enjoyment of the relative rights, and the performance of
theduties, of all personswithinthe jurisdiction of aState,belong
primarily to such State under its reserved power to provide for
the safety of all persons and property within its limits; and that
even if the subject of such regulationsbe one that may be taken
under the exclusive control of Congress, and be reached by
national legislation, any action taken by the State upon that
subject that does not directly interfere with rights secured by
the Constitution of the United States or by some valid act of
Congress, must be respected until Congress intervenes."
In the absence of Congressional legislation upon the subject,
an act of the legislature of Alabama, to require locomotive
engineers to be examined and licensed by a board to be appointed by the governor for that purpose, w.s sustained in
Smith v. Alabama, 124 U. S. 465.
An enumeration of the instances in which this court has
sustained the validity of local laws intended to promote the
safety and comfort of passengers, employ6s, persons crossing
railroad tracks and adjacent property owners, is given in the
opinion by Mr. Justice Brown, in Cleveland &c. Ry. Co. v.
Illinois, 177 U. S. 514, 516.
The case of Chicago, Milwaukee &c. Ry. Co. v. Solan, 169
U. S. 133, is, in our opinion, virtually decisive of the question
made upon this branch of the case. In that case cattle were
loaded at Rock Valley, Iowa, to be shipped to Chicago. The
contract, as here, was for interstate transportation. An injury
happened to the drover in charge of the cattle in Iowa, due to
the negligence of the transporting company. The shipper had
signed a contract providing: "That the company shall in no
event be liable to the owner or person in charge of said stock
for any injury to his person in any amount exceeding the
sum of $500.00." The company averred and offered to prove

OCrOBER TERMU, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

that, in view of this limited liability, it had agreed to transport
the cattle at a reduced rate. The statute of Iowa provided:
" No contract, receipt, rule or regulation shall exempt any
corporation engaged in transporting persons or property by
railway from liability of a common carrier, or carrier of passengers, which would exist had no contract, receipt, rule or
regulation been made or entered into." Iowa Code of 1873,
sec. 1308. The trial court charged that the limitation contained in the contract was void, and a verdict of $1000.00
damages was returned. A judgment on the verdict was affirmed in the Supreme Court of Iowa. In delivering the opinion of this court, Mr. Justice Gray said (pp. 137, 138):
"A carrier exercising his calling within a particular State
although engaged in the business of interstate commerce, is answerable, according to the law of the State, for acts of nonfeasance or of misfeasance committed within its limits. If he
fails to deliver goods to the proper consignee at the right time
and place, or if by negligence in transportation he inflicts injury
upon the person of a passenger brought from another State,
the right of action for the consequent damage is given by the
local law. It is equally within the power of the State to prescribe the safeguards and precautions foreseen to be necessary
and proper to prevent by anticipation those wrongs and injuries, which, after they have been inflicted, the State has the
power to redress and to punish. The rules prescribed for the
construction of railroads, and for their management and operation, designed to protect persons and property, otherwise
endangered by their use, are strictly within the scope of the
local law. They are not, in themselves, regulations of interstate commerce, although they control, in some degree, the conduct and the liability of those engaged in such commerce. So
long as Congress has not legislated upon the particular subject,
they are rather to be regarded as legislation in aid of such commerce, and as a rightful exercise of the police power of the
State to regulate the relative rights and duties of all persons
and corporations within its limits. ...
The statute now

PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO. v. HUGHES.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in question, so far as it concerns liability for injuries happening
within the State of Iowa-which is the only matter presented
for decision in this case-clearly comes within the same principles. It is in no just sense a regulation of commerce. It
does not undertake to impose any tax upon the company, or
to restrict the persons or things to be carried, or to regulate the
rate of tolls, fares or freight. Its whole object and effect are
to make it more sure that railroad companies shall perform the
duty, resting upon them by virtue of their employment as
common carriers, to use the utmost care and diligence in the
transportation of passengers and goods."
It is true that this language was used of a statute of Iowa
enacting a rule of obligation for common carriers in that State.
But the principle recognized is that in the absence of Congressional legislation upon the subject, a State may require a
common carrier, although in the execution of a contract for
interstate carriage, to use great care and diligence in the carrying of passengers and transportation of goods, and to be liable
for the whole loss resulting from negligence in the discharge
of its duties.
We can see no difference in the application of the principle
based upon the manner in which the State requires this degree
of care and responsibility, whether enacted into a statute or
resulting from the rules of law enforced in the state courts.
The State has a right to promote the welfare and safety of
those within its jurisdiction by requiring common carriers to
be responsible to the full measure of the loss resulting from
their negligence, a contract to the contrary notwithstanding.
This requirement in the case just cited is held not to be an
unlawful attempt to regulate interstate commerce in the absence of Congressional action providing a different measure of
liability when contracts, such as the one now before us, are
made in relation to interstate carriage. Its pertinence to the
case under consideration renders further discussion unnecessary.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania is

Affirmed.

