ATKIN v. KANSAS.
191 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

ATKIN v. KANSAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSASi
Wo. 30. Submitted May 1,1903.-Decided November 30,1903.
Municipal corporations are, in every essential, only auxiliaries of the State
for the purposes of local government. They may be created, or, having
been created, may be destroyed, or their powers may be restricted, enlarged or withdrawn at the will of the Legislature, subject only to the
fundamental condition that the collective and individual rights of the.
people of the municipality shall not thereby be destroyed.
The building of a highway whether done by the State directly, or by one of
its instrumentalities-a municipallty-is work of a public, not private,
character.
It is within the power of a State, as guardian and trustee for its people and
having full control of its affairs, to prescribe the conditions upon which
it will permit public work to be done on behalf of itself or its municipalities.
In the exercise of these powers it may by statute provide that eight hours
shall constitute a day's work for all laborers employed by or on behalf of
the State or any of its municipalities and making it unlawful for any one
threafter contracting to do any public work to require or permit any
laborer to work longer than eight hours per day except under certain
specified conditions and requiring such contractors to pay the current
rate of daily wages. And one who after the enactment of such a statute
contracts for such public work is not by reason of its provisions deprived
of his liberty or his property without due process of law nor denied the
equal protection of the laws within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment even though it appear that the current rate of wages is based on
private work whereten hours constitute a day's work or that the work in
excess of eight hours per day is not dangerous to the health of the laborers.
Quoure, whether a similar statute applicable to laborers on purely private
work would be constitutional, not decided.

THIs case involves the validity under the Constitution of
the United States of the statute known as the eight-hour law
of Kansas of 1891, p. 192, e. 114, being sections 3827, 3828
and 3829 of the General Statutes of 1901 of that State.
By the first section of that act it was provided that "Eight
hours shall constitute a day's work for all laborers, workmen,

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

191 U. S.

mechanics or other persons now employed or who may hereafter be employed by or on behalf of the State of Kansas, or
by or on behalf of any county, city, township or other municipality of said State, except in cases of extraordinary emergency which may arise in time of war, or in cases where it may
be necessary to work more than eight hours per calendar day
for the protection of property or human life: provided, That
in all such cases the laborers, workmen, mechanics or other
persons so employed and working to exceed eight hours per
calendar day shall be paid on the basis of eight hours constituting a day's work: provided further, that not less than the
current rate of per diem wages in the locality where the work
is performed shall be paid to laborers, workmen, mechanics
and other persons so employed by or on behalf of the State of
Kansas, or any county, city, township or other municipality
of said State; and laborers, workmen, mechanics and other
persons employed by contractors or sub-contractors in the
execution of any contract or contracts within the State of
Kansas, or within any county, city, township or other municipality thereof, shall be deemed to be employed by or on
behalf of the State of Kansas, or of such county, city, township or other municipality thereof."
The second section declared that "All contracts hereafter
made by or on behalf of the State of Kansas, or by or on behalf
of any county, city, township, or other municipality of said
State, with any corporation, person or persons, for the performance of any work or the furnishing of any material manufactured within the State of Kansas, shall be deemed and
considered as made upon the basis of eight hours constituting
a day's work; and it shall be unlawful for any such corporation,
person or persons to require or permit any laborer, workman,
mechanic or other person to work more than eight hours per
calendar day in doing such work or in furnishing or manufacturing such material, except in the cases and upon the
conditions provided in section 1 of this act."
The third section makes any officer of Kansas, or of any

ATKIN v. KANSAS.
191 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

county, city, township or municipality of that State, or any
person acting under or for such officer, or any contractor with
the State, or any county, city, township or other municipality
thereof, or other person violating any of the provisions of the
act, liable for each offense, and subject to be punished by a fine
of not less than $50 nor more than $1,000, or by imprisonment
not more than six months, or by both fine and imprisonment,
in the discretion of the court.
It may be stated that the act exempts existing contracts
from its provisions.
The present prosecution was under the above act, and was
commenced in one of the courts of Kansas.
The complaint in its first count charged that Atkin contracted with the municipal corporation of Kansas City to do
the labor, and furnish all materials for the construction of a
brick pavement upon Quindaro Boulevard, a public street of
that city; and having hired one George Reese to shovel and
remove dirt in execution of the work, did knowingly, wilfully
and unlawfully permit and require him to labor ten hours
each calendar day upon said work, there being no extraordinary emergency arising in time of war, nor any necessity for
him to labor more than eight hours per day for the protection
of property or of human life.
The second count contained the same allegations as to the
general nature of Atkin's contract, and charged that he unlawfully hired Reese to labor on the basis of ten hours as constituting a day's work by contracting to pay the current rate
of wages, which in that locality was the sum of $1.50 per day,
and unlawfully exacted and required of him that he labor ten
hours each calendar day in order to be entitled to the current
wages of $1.50 per day, there being no extraordinary emergency arising in time of war, nor any necessity for him to labor
more than eight hours for the protection of property or of
human life.
The defendant moved to quash each count, upon the grounds,
among others, that the statute in question, in violation of the
VOL. oxei-14

OCTOBER TERM',

1903.

Statement of the Case.

191 U. S.

first section of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution
of the United States, deprived him of his liberty and property
without due process of law and denied him the equal protection of the laws.
The motion to quash was overruled, and the case was heard
upon an agreed statement of facts.
It appears from that statement that the parties stipulated,
for the purposes of the case, that Kansas City was under a
duty to keep its streets and highways in repair, and make all
contracts to grade and pave them and for all other public improvements within its limits; that the defendant entered into
a contract with the city to construct a pavement on Quindaro
Boulevard, a public highway in that city, and employed,
among others, one George Reese to perform the labor of shoveling and removing dirt in the prosecution of that work; permitted him to work more than eight hours on each calendar
day, although there was no extraordinary emergency arising
in time of war, nor any necessity that he or any other person
engaged on the work should work more than eight hours for
the protection of property or human life; that the agreement
with Reese was to pay fifteen cents per hour and no more, the
current rate of wages for such work in that locality being $1.50
for ten hours' labor per day; and that the defendant exacted
and required of him that he work ten hours each calendar day
in order to be entitled to the current wages of $1.50 per day;
that if the contractor had been compelled to pay Reese and
other laborers at the rate of $1.50 per day for eight hours'
work, his compensation would have been diminished by one
hundred dollars; that Reese was not compelled, required or
requested to work more than eight hours in any one day, but
did so voluntarily, and was permitted and allowed to work
ten hours in each calendar day in order to earn $1.50 in a calendar day; that he was employed at his own solicitation, and
entered into the agreement with Atkin freely, and worked at
the time and place mentioned in the complaint with the knowledge, consent and permission of defendant; that it was not the

ATKIN v. KANSAS.
191 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

intention, expectation, desire or agreement of Reese or of the
defendant that the former should ask, demand or receive the
same compensation for eight hours' work as was paid for ten
hours' work each calendar day to laborers doing the same kind
of work for persons having contracts with private persons or
corporations; that he was hired and employed without the
knowledge or consent of the city, and neither the city nor its
officers, had or exercised any control or supervision over him,
he being the servant of the defendant and not of the city; and,
that the contract between the defendant and the city did not
contain any provision as to the number of hours laborers should
work in a calendar day, nor any provision as to their compensation, but left the contractor free as to the means and manner
of performing his contract.
It was also stipulated that the labor performed by Reese
was healthful out-door work, not dangerous, hazardous or in
any way injurious to life, limb or health, and could be performed for a period of ten hours during each working day of
the week without injury from so doing, and that the labor he
was employed to perform, and did perform, "was in no respect
or manner more dangerous to the health or hazardous to life
or limb or to the general welfare of the said George Reese or
other persons doing such work than the labor performed by
persons doing the same kind of or character of work as the
employ~s or [of] contractors having contracts to do the same
kind of work for private persons, firms or corporations, or as
the servants of private persons, firms or corporations."
It was further stipulated that the work of shoveling and
removing dirt in the construction of a pavement was in all
respects the same whether the pavement be constructed fora
city of other municipality or for a private person, firm or corporation.
Such was the case presented for the determination of the
trial court.
The prosecution resulted in a judgment against the defendant, and he wm sentenced to pay a fine of fifty dollars on each

OCTOBER TER\IU, 1903.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

191 U. S.

count of the complaint. Motions in arrest of judgment and
for new trial having been denied, the case was taken to the
Supreme Court of Kansas, which affirmed the judgment and
sustained the validity of the statute.
Mr. T. A. Pollock for plaintiff in error:
The provisions of the law of 1891 constituting eight hours
a day's work for persons employed by contractors engaged
in paving streets for cities and requiring such contractors to
pay their employ~s for eight hours' work the current rate of
wages for ten hours' work, in this case, are in conflict with
section 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution
of the United States.
Such provisions deprive the plaintiff in error of his liberty
and property without due process of law.
For legal meaning of word "liberty," see Williams v. Fears,
179 U. S. 270; Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578; Butchers'
Union &c. v. Crescent City Live Stock Co., 111 U. S. 746, and
see also p.755; Bracewelrv.People,147 Illinois, 65; S. C., 35 N.
E. Rep. 62; Statev. Coal Co., 36 W. Va. 856; S. C., 15 S. E. Rep.
1000. As to due process of law see Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S.
366. The provisions also deny the contractor equal protection
of the laws. The act is class legislation; it discriminates without reason. It has been held not to apply to contractors for
work on penitentiaries or charitable institutions. State v. Martindale, 47 Kansas, 147. For purpose of the law, see In re Ashby, 60 Kansas, 106. The Fourteenth Amendment was passed
to prevent discriminations and class legislation. The words
"due process of law" and ((equal protection of laws" are
synonymous with "the law of the land." They mean a law
binding upon every member of the community under similar
circumstances. Wally's Heirs v. Kennedy, 2 Yerg,, 554; Bank
v. Okely, 4 Wheat. 235; State v. Loomis, 115 Missouri, 307; S. C.,
22 S. W. Rep. 351; County of Santa Clarav. R. "R.Co., 18 Fed.
Rep. 398; Ex parte Virginia,100 U. S.339; Barbier v. Connolly,
113 U. S, 27. The power of legislatures to classify subjects of

ATKIN v. KANSAS.
191 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

legislation is conceded but this does not mean arbitrary designation. Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540;
Missouri v. Lewis, 101 U. S. 22, 31. The equal protection of
the laws is a pledge of the protection of equal laws. Yick Wo
v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356, 369; Duncan v. Missouri, 152 U. S.
377; Hayes v. Missouri, 120 U. S. 350; Gulf &c. R. R. Co. v.
Ellis, 165 U. S. 150; State v. Hammer, 42 N. J. L. 438; Appeal
of Ayars,122Pa.St.266; S.C., 16Atl. Rep. 363. The courts determine whether the classification is arbitrary. Pell v. Newark,
40 N. J. L. 79; Connoly v. Pipe Co., supra ; Holden v. Hardy,
169 U. S. 366.
Similar labor laws have been held unconstitutional. New
York State v. Coler, 166 N. Y. 18; S. C., 59 N. E. Rep. 716; People
v. Coler, 67 N. Y. Supp. 701. A municipal corporation in
matters affecting its property and private contract rights enjoys practically the same immunity from legislative interference for the benefit of private corporations or individuals
as is accorded to business corporations and private citizens.
Board of Park Comrs. v. Detroit, 28 Michigan, 228; Citizens'
Say. & Loan Assn. v. Topeka, 87 U. S. 655; People v. Batchellor, supra; Weismer v. Village of Douglas, 64 N. Y. 91; Board
v. Blodgett, 155 Illinois, 441; 40 N. E. Rep. 1025; Peoplev.Orange
Co. Road Assn., 66 N. E. 895 ; Ohio, Cleveland v. Clement
Bros., 65 N. E. Rep. 885, citing Palmer v. Tingle, 55 Ohio St.
425 ; 45 N. E. Rep. 313; Indiana, Street v. Varney Electrical
Supply Co., 67 N. E. 129 ; California, In re Kubach, 85
California, 274; 24 Pac. Rep. 737; Illinois, Fiske v. People, 188
Illinois, 206; 58 N. E. Rep. 985, citing Ritchie v. People, 155
Illinois, 98; 40 N. E. Rep. 1028; United States v. Marshall, 94
U. S. 400; Washington, Seattle v. Smyth, 22 Washington, 327;
60 Pac. Rep. 1120; Nebraska, Low v. Rees Printing Co., 41
Nebraska, 127; 59 N. W. Rep. 362, citing Trumble v. Trumble,
37 Nebraska, 340; Colorado, In re Morgan, 58 Pac. Rep. 1071;
In re Eight Hour Law, 21 Colorado, 29; 39 Pac. Rep. 328;
Missouri, State v. Loomis, 155 Missouri, 307; 22 S. W. Rep.
350; Kansas, State v. Haun, 61 Kansas, 146; 59 Pac. Rep. 340.
See Cooley's Const. Lim. 6th ed. 484.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.'
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

191 U. S.

The courts of almost every State in the Union have united
in declaring such legislation as is attempted in the act under
consideration to be unconstitutional, vicious and void. In
addition to the cases heretofore cited, see In re Jacobs, 98 N. Y.
98; People v. Mark, 99 N. Y. 378; People v. Gilson, 109 N. Y.
389; Colon v. Disk, 153 N. Y. 188; People v. Hawkins, 157 N. Y.
1; People ex rel. Tyrolerv. Warden of City Prison,157 N. Y. 116;
People ex rel. Treat v. Coler, 166 N. Y. 144; Godcharlesv. Wigeman, 113 Pennsylvania, 431; 6 AtI. Rep. 354; Bramley v. Norton, 5 Ohio N. P. 183; State v. Goodwill, 33 West Va. 179; 10
S. E. Rep. 285; State v. Fire Creek Co., 33 West Va. 188; 10
S. E. Rep. 288; Ramsey v. People, 142 Illinois, 380; Frorer v.
People, 141 Illinois, 171; Braceville Coal Co. v. People, 147 Illinois, 66; 35 N. E. Rep. 62; Ritchie v. People, 155 Illinois, 98;
Gillespiev. People, 58 N. W. Rep. 1007; In re Preston,59 N. W.
Rep. 109; Commonwealth v. Perry, 155 Massachusetts, 1107;
City of Denver v. Bach, 58 Pac. Rep. 1089.
The Supreme Court of Kansas followed In re Dalton, 61
Kansas, 257; 59 Pac. Rep. 336. In this case as Well as in that
case there are flagrant errors. The statute is not a mere rule
of procedure for the State or its municipalities but affects
many persons who are in no sense the agents of the State or its
municipalities. The statute was not to prevent cities abusing
their power to improve streets and levy taxes, but to reduce
the toil of certain laborers without reducing their pay. The
State is not a person within the meaning of that word as used
in the Fourteenth Amendment. The constitution of Kansas
prevents the Statefrom being a party in carrying on any works
of internal improvement. As to this see Attorney General v.
Pingree, 79 N. W. Rep. (Michigan) 814; People v. Board, 25
Michigan, 152.
Employ~s of contractors are not employs of cities. United
States v. Driscoll, 96 U. S. 421. Contracts for paving streets
are matters pertaining to cities in their private corporate capacity. Commissioners v. Topeka, 39 Kansas, 197; Hari v.
Ohio Township, 62 Kansas, 318. The duty to repair streets

ATKIN v. KANSAS.
191 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

is private, not governmental. Lynn v. Turner, Cowp. 86;
Henley v. Lyme Regis, 5 Ring. 91; Jones on Negligence of Mun.
Corp. ยง 58; Livingston v. Thompson, 68 S. W. Rep. 477; O'Rouke
v. City of Sioux Falls, 54 N. W. Rep. 1044. In Norwood v.
Baker, 172 U. S. 169, it was held that special assessments cannot be levied in excess of special benefits. See Gilmore v.
Hentig, 33 Kansas, 156; Mason v. Spencer, 35 Kansas, 512;
Newman v. Emporia, 41 Kansas, 583; Atchison v. Price, 45
Kansas, 296.
With respect to its private or proprietary rights and interests, a municipal corporation is entitled to the protection of
the constitution, like other corporations. City of New Orleans
v. New Orleans Water Works Co., 142 U. S. 79; State v. Denny
(Indiana), 21 N. E. Rep. 252; Saving Fund Soc'y v. Philadelphia, 31 Pennsylvania, 183; 72 Am. Dec. 730; State v. Fox
(Indiana), 63 N. E. Rep. 19; Board of Park Commissioners v.
Detroit, 28 Michigan, 240; cited approvingly in Blades v. Board
&c. (Michigan), 81 N. W. Rep. 271; Helena Consol. Water Co.
v. Steele, 20 Montana, 1; 49 Pac. Rep. 382; People v. Chicago,
51 Illinois, 17; Dillon's Mune. Cor. 4th ed. 129; article on "The
Right to Local Self-Government," 13 Haxv. Law Rev. 441, and
eases there cited; Stockwell v. Rutland, 53 At. 132; Peters
v. Lindsborg, 40 Kansas, 654; La Clef v. Concordia,41 Kansas,
323; Caldwell v. Prunelle, 57 Kansas, 511.
The legal distinction between municipal corporations proper
-- cities-and quasi corporations has been often recognized and
enforced in the State of Kansas. Beach v. Leahy, 11 Kansas,
23; Illinois T. & S. Bank v. Arkansas City, 22 C. C. A. 271;
State v. Topeka Water Co., 61 Kansas, 547; State v. Hunter, 38
Kansas, 582.
The question as to whether a city in contracting to pave a
street is acting in its private capacity, as a representative of its
citizens, is a question of general law not dependent upon any
constitutional or statutory provision of the State of Kansas.
The state court cites People v. Beck, 30 N. Y. Supp. 473, now
overruled, and United States v. Martin, 94 U. S. 400. This

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

191 U. S.

court is not bound by the decision of the state court, but will
determine for itself the law of this case. Olcott v. Supervisors,
16 Wall. 678. The statute may be held void as to cities and
their contractors only. It might be held constitutional as to
the state and quasi public corporations such as counties, townships and school districts and unconstitutional as to cities.,
Emporiav. Norton, 13 Kansas, 570.
The statute so far as it limits the hours of employment on
public works has no relation to the public health, safety or
morals and cannot be held valid as a police regulation. People
v. Beck, 10 Misc. N. Y. 83; State v. Martindale,47 Kansas, 147;
Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366, related to a statute passed under constitutional provisions as to health of miners, and People
v. Phyfe, 136 N. Y. 554; Commonwealth v. Hamilton Mfg. Co.,
120 Massachusetts, 383; United States v. Martin,94 U. S. 400,
are not applicable.
The plaintiff in error has not waived his right to question
the cbnstitutionality of the statute under consideration. He
was advised by counsel and contracted under the belief that
the statute under consideration was unconstitutional and void.
The contract did not contain any stipulation with reference to
the hours of labor or the compensation to be paid to laborers.
Even if the contract had contained such provisions they would
not prevent the plaintiff from attacking the constitutionality
of the statute. Cleveland v. Clements Bros., 65 N. E. Rep. 885;
People v. Coler, 166 N. Y. 1; Marshall v. Nashville, 71 S. W.
Rep. 815; Sweet v. People, 65 N. E. Rep. 1094; People v. Featherstonhaugh,64 N. E. Rep. 802.
Even if the Legislature had the right to regulate the hours
of labor of persons employed by a municipal .corporation,
nevertheless the statute in question is not justified, because it
is as well, an encroachment upon the right of the individual
employer and employ6 to contract as they shall see fit; and
the fact that the Legislature has chosen for the execution of
its unlawful purpose the medium of the state and municipal
corporations cannot prevent this court from setting aside the

ATKIN v. KANSAS.
191 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

statute as an insidious attempt to encroach upon individual
rights and liberties. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v. Chicago, 166
U. S. 126, and cases cited; Foster v. Scott, 136 N. Y. 577.
Mr. C. C. Coleman, Attorney General of the State of Kansas,
and Mr. N. H. Loomis, for defendant in error:
For thirteen years this law has been one of the features of
state legislation in Kansas. Every city, every county, every
municipality, which has let a contract, and every contractor
who has made a bid therefor, for public work in Kansas, for
thirteen years, has done so with the full knowledge of the law.
Every laboring man in the State for so long has known of the
advantage to him of employment upon public enterprises carried on under the direct or indirect authority of the State.
Whenever assailed the law has received the sanction of the
highest courts of the State. In re Ashby, 60 Kansas, 160; In
re Dalton, 61 Kansas, 255, 257; The State v. Atkin, 64 Kansas,
174.
It is similar to the United States eight hour law upheld in
United States v. Martin, 94 U. S. 400. Appellant's liberty has
not been disturbed.
The theory upon which the Supreme Court of Kansas in this
and similar cases has proceeded is: First,that the opening, improvement and maintenance of public highways, the construction of court-houses, the requirements for street and road work,
are public governmental functions, for which the State is primarily responsible, and the maintenance and'performance of
which the sovereign people have the right to require at the
hands of the State. State v. Atkin, 64 Kansas, 176; People v.
Flagg,46 N. Y. 401.
Second, that cities, counties, and other municipal organizations, in so far as their control of such enterprises is concerned,
are but agencies of the State for carrying out these governmental functions. General Statutes, 1901, ยง 727, subd. 34;
In re Dalton, 61 Kansas, 264, and cases cited; Williams v.
Eggleston, 171 U. S. 310; Kelly v. Pittsburg, 104 U. S. 78; For-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

syth v. Hammond, 166 U. B. 518; People v. Beck, 10 Misc. N.
Y. 77.
Third, that contractors with the State or city must make
their estimates with reference to the state's regulations of
wages and hours, and doing so are fully protected in their
rights. There is no discrimination against appellant.
Unless it appears from the law itself, or from the facts of
the case at bar, that some discrimination is exercised or exerted
against the plaintiff himself, he cannot be heard to say in opposition to the law that the rights of some other person or class
of persons are infringed by it. He can only complain if his
own rights are, offended against. This principle is fundamental. State v. Smiley, 69 Pac. Rep. 199; City v. Railway
Co., 59 Kansas, 427; Clark v. City, 176 U. S. 114; Supervisors
v. Stanley, 105 U. S. 305; Railroad Co. v. Montgomery, 152
Indiana, 1; 74 Am. St. Rep. 302, 311.
The paving of a street is a governmental power. Branson
v. Philadelphia,47 Pennsylvania, 329; State v. Commissioners,
28 Kansas, 431. There is no claim made that the statute is
enacted peculiarly by virtue of the police power of the State.
MR. JUsTIcE HARLAx, after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
The case has been stated quite fully, in order that there may
be no dispute as to what is involved and what not involved in
its determination.
No question arises here as to the power of a State, consistently with the Federal Constitution, to make it a criminal offense for an employer in purely private work in which the public
has no concern, to permit or to require his employAs to perform
daily labor in excess of a prescribed number of hours. One
phase of that general question was considered in Holden v.
Hardy, 169 U. S. 366, in which it was held that the Constitution of the United States did not forbid a State from enacting
a statute providing-as did the statute of Utah there involved

ATKIN v. KANSAS.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

-that in all underground mines or workings and in smelters
and other institutions for the reduction or refining of ores or
metals, the period of the employment of workmen should be
eight hours per day, except in cases of emergency when life or
property is in imminent danger. In respect of that statute,
this court said: "The enactment does not profess to limit the
hours of all workmen, but merely those who are employed in
underground mines, or in the smelting, reduction or refining
of ores or metals. These employments, when too long pursued, the legislature has judged to be detrimental to the health
of the employ~s, and so long as there are reasonable grounds
for believing that this is so, its decision upon this subject cannot be reviewed by the Federal Courts. While the general
experience of mankind may justify us in believing that men
may engage in ordinary employments more than eight hours
per day without injury to their health, it does not follow that
labor for the same length of time is innocuous when carried
on beneath the surface of the earth, where the operative is deprived of fresh air and sunlight, and is frequently subjected
to foul atmosphere and a very high temperature, or to the influence of noxious gases, generated by the processes of refining
or smelting."
As already stated, no such question is presented by the present record; for, the work to which the complaint refers is that
performed on behalf of a municipal corporation, not private
work for private parties. Whether a similar statute, applied
to laborers or employ~s in purely private work, would be constitutional, is a question of very large import, which we have
no occasion now to determine or even to consider.
Assuming that the statute has application only to labor or
work performed by or on behalf of the State, or by or on behalf
of a municipal corporation, the defendant contends that it is
in conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment. He insists that
the Amendment guarantees to him the right to pursue any
lawful calling, and to enter into all contracts that are proper,
necessary or essential to the prosecution of such calling; and

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

that the statute of Kansas unreasonably interferes with the
exercise of that right, thereby denying to him the equal protection of the laws. Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578;
Williams v. Fears, 179 U. S. 270. In this connection, reference is made by counsel to the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Kansas in Ashby's Case, 60 Kansas, 101, 106, in which that court
said: "When the eight-hour law was passed the Legislature
had under consideration the general subject of the length of
a day's labor, for those engaged on public works at manual
labor, without special reference to the purpose or occasion of
their employment. The leading idea clearly was to limit the
hours of toil of laborers, workmen, mechanics, and other persons in like employments, to eight hours, without reduction
of compensation for the day's services."
"If a statute," counsel observes, "such as the one under
consideration is justifiable, should it not apply to all persons
and to all vocations whatsoever? Why should such a law be
limited to contractors with the State and its municipalities?
Why should the law allow a contractor to agree with
a laborer to shovel dirt for ten hours a day in performance of
a private contract, and make exactly the same act under similar conditions a misdemeanor when done in the performance
of a contract for the construction of a public improvement?
Why is the liberty with reference to contracting restricted in
the one case and not in the other?"
. These questions-indeed, the entire argument of defendant's
counsel--seem to attach too little consequence to the relation existing between a State and its municipal corporations.
Such corporations are the creatures, mere political subdivisions, of the State for the purpose of exercising a part of its
powers. They may exert only such powers as are expressly
granted to them, or such as may be necessarily implied from
those granted. What they lawfully do of a public character
is done under the sanction of the State. They are, in every
essential sense, only auxiliaries of the State for the purposes
of local government. They may be created, or, having been

ATKIN v. KANSAS.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

created, their powers may be restricted or enlarged, or altogether withdrawn at the will of the Legislature; the authority of the Legislature, when restricting or withdrawing
such powers, being subject only to the fundamental condition
that the collective and individual rights of the people of the
municipality shall not thereby be destroyed. Rogers v. Burlington, 3 Wall. 654, 663; United States v. RailroadCo., 17 Wall.
322, 328-329; Mount Pleasant v. Beckwith, 100 U. S. 514, 525;
State Bank of Ohio v. Knoop, 16 How. 369, 380; Hill v. Memphis, 134 U. S. 198, 203; Barnett v. Denison, 145 U. S. 135, 139;
Williams v. Eggleston, 170 U. S. 304, 310. In the case last
cited we said that "a municipal corporation is, so far as its
purely municipal relations are concerned, simply an agency
of the State for conducting the affairs of government, and as
such it is subject to the control of the Legislature." It"may
be observed here that the decisions by the Supreme Court of
Kansas are in substantial accord with these principles. That
court, in the present case, approved what was said in City of
Clinton v. Cedar Rapids & Missouri River R. R. Co., 24 Iowa,
455, 475, in which the Supreme Court of Iowa said: "Municipal
corporations owe their origin to, and derive their powers and
rights wholly from, the Legislature. It breathes into them
the breath of life, without which they cannot exist. As it
creates, so it may destroy. If it may destroy, it may abridge
and control. Unless there is some constitutional limitation
on the right, the Legislature might, by a single act, if we can
suppose it capable of so great a folly and so great a wrong,
sweep from existence all of the municipal corporations of the
State, and the corporations could not prevent it. We know
of no limitation on this right so far as the corporations themselves are concerned. They are, so to phrase it, the mere
tenants at will of the Legislature." See also In re Dalton, 61
Kansas, 257; State ex rel. v. Lake Koen Co., 63 Kansas, 394;
State ex rel. v. Com'rs of Shawnee Co., 28 Kansas, 431, 433;
Mayor &c. v. Groshon, 30 Maryland, 436, 444.
The improvement of the Boulevard in question was a work

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opimion of the Court.

191 U. S.

of which the State, if it had deemed it proper to do so, could
have taken immediate charge by its own agents; for, it is one
of the functions of government to provide public highways
for the convenience and comfort of the people. Instead of
undertaking that work directly, the State invested one of its
governmental agencies with power to care for it. Whether
done by the State directly or by one of its instrumentalities,
the work was of a public, not private, character.
If, then, the work upon which the defendant employed Reese
was of a public character, it necessarily follows that the statute
in question, in its application to those undertaking work for
or on behalf of a municipal corporation of the State, does not
infringe the personal liberty of any one. It may be that the
State, in enacting the statute, intended to give its sanction to
the view held by many, that, all things considered, the general welfare of employ~s, mechanics and workmen, upon whom
rest a portion of the burdens of government, will be subserved
if labor performed for eight continuous hours was taken to be
a full day's work; that the restriction of a day's work to that
number of hours would promote morality, improve the physical and intellectual condition of laborers and workmen and
enable them the better to discharge the duties appertaining
to citizenship. We have no occasion here to consider these
questions, or to determine upon which side is the sounder reason; for, whatever may have been the motives controlling the
enactment of the statute in question, we can imagine no possible ground to dispute the power of the State to declare that no
one undertaking work for it or for one of its municipal agencies,
should permit or require an employ6 on such work to labor in
excess of eight hours each day, and to inflict punishment upon
those who are embraced by such regulations and yet disregard
them. It cannot be deemed a part of the liberty of any contractor that he be allowed to do public work in any mode he
may choose to adopt, without regard to the wishes of the State.
On the contrary, it belongs to the State, as the guardian and
trustee for its people, and having control of it* affairs, to pre-

ATKIN v. KANSAS.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

scribe the conditions upon which it will permit public work to
be done on its behalf, or on behalf of its municipalities. No
court has authority to review its action in that respect. Regulations on this subject suggest only considerations of public
policy. And with such considerations the courts have no
concern.
If it be contended to be the right of every one to dispose of
his labor upon such terms as he deems best-as undoubtedly
it is-and that to make it a criminal offense for a contractor
for public work to permit or require his employ6 to perform
labor upon that work in excess of eight hours each day, is in
derogation of the liberty both of employ~s and employer, it
is sufficient to answer that no employ6 is entitled, of absolute
right and as a part of his liberty, to perform labor for the State;
and no contractor for public work can excuse a violation of
his agreement with the State by doing that which the statute
under which he proceeds distinctly and lawfully forbids him
to do.
So, also, if it be said that a statute like the one before us is
mischievous in its tendencies, the answer is that the responsibility therefor rests upon legislators, not upon the courts. No
evils arising from such legislation could be more far-reaching
than those that might come to our system of government if
the judiciary, abandoning the sphere assigned to it by the
fundamental law, should enter the domain of legislation, and
upon grounds merely of justice or reason or wisdom annul
statutes that had received the sanction of the people's representatives. We are reminded by counsel that it is the solemn
duty of the courts in cases before them to guard the constitutional rights of the citizen against merely arbitrary power.
That is unquestionably true. But it is equally true-indeed,
the public interests imperatively demand-that legislative
enactments should be recognized and enforced by the courts
as embodying the will of the people, unless they are plainly
and palpably, beyond all question, in violation of the fundamental law of the Constitution. It cannot be affirmed of
9

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
191'U. S.

Opinion of the Court

the statute of Kansas that it is plainly inconsistent with that
instrument; indeed its constitutionality is beyond all question.
Equally without any foundation upon which to rest is the
proposition that the Kansas statute denied to the defendant or
to his employ6 the equal protection of the laws. The rule of
conduct prescribed by it applies alike to all who contract to
do work on behalf either of the State or of its municipal subdivisions, and alike to all employed to perform labor on such
work.
Some stress is laid on the fact, stipulated by the parties for
the purposes of this case, that .the work performed by defendant's employ6 is not dangerous to life, limb or health, and that
daily labor on it for ten hours would not be injurious to him
in any way. In the view we take of this case, such considerations are not controllifig. We rest our decision upon the broad
ground that the work being of a public character, absolutely
under the control of the State and its municipal agents acting
by its authority, it is for the State to prescribe the conditions
under which it will permit work of that kind to be done. Its
action touching such a matter is final so long as it does not, by
its regulations, infringe the personal rights of others; and that
has not been done.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Kansas is

Affirmed.

The CHmF JUSTICe, MR.
PF~cKHA&M, dissent.

JUsrIeE BRFwFR

and MR.

JUsTICE

