OCTOBER TERAX, 1903.
Syllabus.

191 U. S.

the Circuit Courts of the United States, and of this court, which
from the original Judiciary Act of 1789 have, where the amount
involved was made the test of jurisdiction, uniformly used the
words "exclusive of costs," would indicate, so far as the Federal courts are concerned, that a mere judgment for costs could
not ordinarily be made the basis of an appeal to this court.
For the reasons above given, the appellant did not have the
requisite interest to maintain this appeal, and it is therefore
Dismissed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN and MR. JuSTiCE WHITE are of opin-

ion that the plaintiff in error was entitled to prosecute the present writ, and that the court should determine the case upon its
merits.

CITY OF JOPLIN v. SOUTHWEST MISSOURI LIGHT
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No.

32.

Argued October 20, 1903.-Dectded November 16,1903.

Ftestraints upon governmental agencies will not be readily implied. There
are presumptions against the granting of exclusive rights and against
limitations upon the powers of government.
By the statute of 1891, cities in Missouri may erect and operate their own
electric light plants, or they may grant the right to persons or corporations to erect and operate such plants for not exceeding a period of twenty
years. The city of Joplin by ordinance adopted subsequent to the statute, granted such right for twenty years to a corporation which erected
and has ever since operated the plant. The ordinance conferred rights,
exacted obligations, fixed rates and provided for its written acceptance
and the corporation so accepted it. By a later ordinance the city provided for the issue of bonds to build its own plant.
In an action brought by the Light Company to restrain the erection of the
plant during the continuance of the twenty year term, on the ground that
the ordinance violated the Federal constitution in that it impaired the obligation of the contract existing under the ordinance granting the franchise.

JOPLIN v. LIGHT COMIPANY.
191 U.S.

Statement of the Case.

Held that as such ordinance did not provide that the city would not erect
its own plant no such provision could be inplied.
Held that the fact that cities could elect under the statute of 1891 either to
erect their own plants or grant franchises, could not in case of their election to grant the franchise be construed as an implied contract not to
erect their own plants during the period for which the franchise was
granted.

BuL in equity to restrain the appellant from supplying its
inhabitants with incandescent lights or other electric lighting
in competition with the appellee.
The city of Joplin is a municipality of the State of Missouri;
the appellee is a corporation of said State, and the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court was invoked on the ground that the action
of the city impaired the obligation of the contract existing
between it and the appellee, in violation of the Constitution
of the United States, and hence the appeal directly to this
court.
A preliminary injunction was granted. 101 Fed. Rep. 23.
It was made perpetual upon final hearing, and a decree was
entered enjoining the city "from supplying or furnishing to
the inhabitants, residents or any other person, firm or corporation within said city, or any addition thereto or extension
thereof, electric lights, either incandescent or arc, or in any
other form or manner, for commercial or private lighting, for
and'during the full term" of the grant to the predecessors and
assignors of appellee, to wit, the term of twenty years from
and after October 7, 1891. 113 Fed. Rep: 817.
A statute of Missouri, Laws, 1891, April 2, p. 60, authorizes
cities to erect, maintain and operate electric light works, to
light the streets, and supply the inhabitants with light for
their own use, and to establish rates therefor. Or they may,
the statute provides, "grant the right to any person or persons.
. .
upon such terms
or corporation to erect such works
as may be prescribed by ordinance, provided that such right
shall not extend for a longer period than twenty
years." Subsequently to and in pursuance of this statute
the city by ordinance, October 7, 1891, granted the right to

OOTOBBR TERM, 1903.
Argument for Appellant.

191 U. S.

erect and maintain an electric light plant to certain persons,
naming them, their successors and assigns, for a period of
twenty years. The plant was erected at considerable expense,
and has ever since been maintained and operated. The appellee is the successor of the original grantees.
The ordinance conferred rights and exacted obligations, and
fixed, besides, the rates to be charged. It also provided for
its written acceptance within ten days after its passage and
the commencement of the work within sixty days. It was
accepted.
Subsequently, and on March, 1899, the city, acting in pursuance of and in the manner provided in certain ordinances, issued
bonds to the amount of $30,000, "for the purpose of erecting
an electrical light plant to be owned, controlled and operated
by the city," and by the means obtained thereby constructed
electrical works, erected poles and wires, established a schedule
of rates, and entered into the business of commercial electrical
lighting in competition with appellee. The bill alleged that
the appellee was the owner of real and personal property within
the city, which is assessed by the city for municipal taxation,
and that appellee is compelled by reason of such taxation "to
aid and assist in operating and maintaining defendant's (the
city's) electric plant and business as a rival and competing
one" with appellee's electrical plant and business.
Mr. C. H. Montgomery, with whom Mr. Samuel W. Moore
was on the brief, for appellant:
The franchise granted in the ordinance was not exclusive nor
does it contain any obligation on the part of the municipality
not to compete with the owner of the franchise in commercial
lighting or otherwise; nor is the use of the streets granted
by the franchise an exclusive one. The ordinance amounts
to a license to use the streets and that is all. One claiming the grant of an exclusive franchise from a municipality
must be able to point out the express terms by which the exclusive grant is created. The rights of the city and its citizens

JOPLIN v. LIGHT COMPANY.
191 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

do not pass by uncertain or ambiguous language or by implication. Where a municipality is vested with certain powers,
the law jealously guards their exercise and construes contracts of the nature now under consideration most favorably
to the municipality. Bienville Water Co. v. City of Mobile, 95
Fed. Rep. 539; 175 U. S. 1; 186 U. S. 212; Skaneatales Water
Works Co. v. Skaneatales, 184 U. S. 354; Pearsallv. Railway
Co., 161 U. S. 664; Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 11
Peters, 420 ; St. Paul Gas Light Co. v. St. Paul, 181 U. S. 142 ;
Stein v. Water Co., 141 U. S. 67; New Orleans Water Works Co.
v. Rivers, 115 U. S. 674 ; St. Tamany Water Works Co. v. New
Orleans Water Works, 120 U. S. 64 ; Hamilton Gas Light Co. v.
Hamilton, 146 U. S. 258; Thompson Electric Co. v. City of Newton, 42 Fed. Rep. 723 ; Lewis v. City, 75 Fed. Rep. 884 ; City
of Brooklyn, 143 N. Y. 596 ; City of Austin v. Bartholamew,
107 Fed. Rep. 349 ; Newburyport Water Co. v. Newburyport,
103 Fed. Rep. 587.
The power of the city of Joplin to erect and operate its own
electric light plant and the power to grant to some person or
corporation a franchise therefor are concurrent powers. The
lower court erred in holding that the city in granting a franchise for the erection of an electric light plant thereby disabled
itself from erecting and maintaining one of its own. Skaneatales W. V. Co. v. Skaneaales, supra; The Walla Walla Case,
172 U. S. 1; Los Angeles v. Water Co., 177 U. S. 588, and other
cases on brief of defendant in error, distinguished.
If the city of Joplin in granting complainant's franchise
thereby disabled itself from erecting an electric light plant
of its own, then the lower court was without jurisdiction and
should have dismissed the bill. Hamilton Gas Light Co. v.
Hamilton, 146 U. S. 258; State v. Hamilton, 47 Ohio St. 52.
Mr. J. McD. Trimble and Mr. John A. Eaton for defendant
in error and appellee:
The statute must be read into the ordinance or contract.
Walker v. Whitehead, 16 Wall. 314.

OCTOBER TERM1, 1903.
Argument for Appellce.

191 U. S.

As to the implied provisions, that the city should not engage
in competitive private lighting itself, the only rule for finding
the true and entire contract is that the express provisions of
the statute and contract shall be first considered, and then
what is necessarily implied from such express provisions. Detroit Citizens St. 1. R. Co. v. Detroit R. Co., 171 U. S. 48; Los
Angeles v. Los Angeles City Water Co., 177 U. S. 558.
While all implications, doubts and ambiguities are resolved
against the grant or privilege claimed, this rule correctly applies to the grant of the power. When the grant is once conceded, the rule announced in the cases above cited is the settled
one. Dillon on Municipal Corporations, 4th ed. ff 451-459.
The law implies duties and obligations in a contract from
those which are expressed, and the implied duties and obligations are as much a part of the contract as those expressed.
The Union Depot Co. v. The Chicago, K. & N. Ry. Co., 113
Missouri, 213, 1. c. 225; Bishop on Contracts, par. 241; 2 Parsons on Contracts, 6th ed. 514. And see The Walla Walla
Case, 177 U. S. 588; Cort v. Lassard, 17 Oregon, 221; S. C., 17
Am. St. Rep. 720; 22 Pac. Rep. 1054; United Statesv. Babbit, 1
Black. 55; Winecup v. Hughes, L. R. 6 C. P. 78, 84; Donahue
v. Kittrell, 1 Cliff, 144; Massachusetts v. Rhode Island, 12
Peters, 723.
In the exercise of its business or proprietary powers, the city
of Joplin adopted the ordinance and entered into the contract
contained therein. In fixing the maximum charge to be made
for the lights, it contracted for the private ad(antage of the
inhabitants of the city. The purpose of such a contract is
not to govern the inhabitants of the city, but to obtain a private benefit for the city itself and its denizens. Illinois Trust
& Savings Bank v. Arkansas City, 76 Fed. Rep. 271, and cases
cited p. 282; Zabriskie v. R. R. Co., 23 Howard, 381.
The city does not propose to be an ordinary competitor but
to be an unusual competitor for the avowed purpose of receiving enough from its commercial lighting to pay for its
public, lights.

JOPLIN v. LIGHT COMPANY.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Courts may acquaint themselves with the persons and circumstances that are the subjects of the written agreement
and place themselves in the situation of the parties who made
the contract; view the circumstances as they viewed them, so
as to judge of the meaning of the words, and of the correct
application of the language to the thing described. Guarantee Co. v. Mechanics' Say. Bank & Tr. Co., 80 Fed. Rep. 766;
Goddard v. Foster, 17 Wallace, 123, 143.
The following fully support the right to an injunction in
this suit: Walla Walla Water Co. v. City of Walla Walla, 60
Fed. Rep. 957; 172 U. S. 1; Westerly Water Works v. Town of
Westerly, 75 Fed. Rep. 181; White v. City of Meadville (Pa.),
35 Atl. Rep. 695.
A legislative act which impairs the obligation of an existing
contract is void, as violative of the contract clause of the Constitution. New Orleans v. Rivers, 115 U. S. 674; St. Tamany
Water Works Co. v. New Orleans, 120 U. S. 64; City of Los
Angeles v. Los Angeles Water Co., 177 U. S. 558; Detroit v.
Railway Co., 184 U. S. 368.
Cases on brief of plaintiff in error distinguished.
This court has, and the Circuit Court had jurisdiction.
Vicksburg Water Works v. Mayor of Vicksburg, 185 U. S. 65;
Riverside Ry. Co. v. Riverside, 118 Fed. Rep. 736; St. Paul
Gas L. Co. v. St. Paul, 181 U. S. 142; City R. R. Co. v. Citizens'
R. R. Co., 166 U. S. 557.
MR. JusTicE McKuNNA, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The foundation of the suit is that the ordinances of March,
1899, and the acts and conduct of the city in entering into
competition with the complainant (appellee) impair the obligation of the contract impliedly arising from the ordinance of
October 7, 1891, and the acceptance thereof by appellee. In
other words, it is contended that under the statute of the
State, which we have quoted, the city was given the power to

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

construct an electrical plant and erect poles, etc., to "supply
private lights for the use of the inhabitants of the city," or it
could grant that right "to any person or persons or corporation" upon such terms as might be prescribed by ordinance.
It chose the latter, and granted to the assignors of appellee
the right given by the statute and expressed it to be "in consideration of the benefits to be derived therefrom." And it
is hence contended that thereby the city contracted not to
build works of its own, and that by doing so it violated section 10 of the Constitution of the United States, which provides that no State shall "pass any law impairing the obligation of a contract," and also violated that clause of the Fourteenth Amendment of that instrument which provides that
no State "shall deprive any person of property without due
process of law."
It is by implication from the statute and the ordinance
passed under it, not from the explicit expression of either,
that the conclusion is deduced that the city is precluded from
erecting its own lighting plant, and yet it is conceded that
the grant to the appellee is not exclusive. That is, it is conceded the city has not exhausted its power under the statute
by the grant held by appellee, but may make another to some
other person than the appellee. In other words, that the city
may make a competitor to appellee, but cannot itself become
such competitor. The strength of the argument urged to
support the distinction is in the consideration that competition by the city would be more effective than competition by
private persons or corporations-indeed, might be destructive.
The city, it is further urged, could be indifferent to profits
and could tax its competitor to compensate losses. But this
is speculation and it may be opposed by speculation, and there
are besides countervailing considerations. The limitation contended for is upon a governmental agency, and restraints upon
that must not be readily implied. The appellee concedes, as
we have seen, that it has no exclusive right, and yet contends
for a limitation upon the city which might give it (the appel-

JOPLIN v. LIGHT COMPANY.

191

U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

lee) a practical monopoly. Others may not seek to compete
with it, and if the city cannot, the city is left with a useless
potentiality while the appellee exercises and enjoys a practically exclusive right. There are presumptions, we repeat,
against the granting of exclusive rights and against limitations upon the powers of government.
Many cases illustrate this principle, and some of them were
decided in response to contentions similar to those made in
the case at bar. In Skaneatales Water Works Co. v. Skaneatales, 184 U. S. 354, the village of Skaneatales, under statutes
of the State of New York, granted to the water company the
right to construct waterworks, and contracted with it to supply water to the village and its inhabitants for the period of
five years. At the expiration of the term of the contract some
difference arose about the terms of its continuance, and the
village constructed an independent system of waterworks. A
suit was brought by the water company to restrain the further
construction of the works and their operation, and the company contended that under the statute of the State, by which
the village granted to the company its franchises, the village
had the election to construct works, or confer such power upon
a private company like the water company, and having elected
the latter, it impliedly contracted not to construct works of
its own. In reply to this contention this court said (p. 363),
by Mr. Justice Peckham:
"There is no implied contract in an ordinary grant of a
franchise, such as this, that the grantor will never do any act
by which the value of the franchise granted may in the future
be reduced. Such a contract would be altogether too farreaching and important in its possible consequences in the
way of limitation of the powers of a municipality, even in
matters not immediately connected with water, to be left to
implication. We think none such arise from the facts detailed."
It is true there was an element in that case which is not in
the case at bar. The village of Skaneatales had entered into
a contract with the water company to take water from thQ

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

company. This contract had expired before the city constructed its works. It was not that contract, however, which
was alleged to have been impaired, but that which the water
company claimed to have been implied by reason of its organization and incorporation and in pursuance of the application
made to and with the consent of the village authorities. The
ultimate reliance, therefore, of the water company was that
from the grant to it the village impliedly contracted not to
construct works of its own. The similarity of the contention
with that in the case at bar is apparent.
In Bienville Water Supply Company v. Mobile, 175 U. S. 109;
186 U. S. 212, it was again decided that the granting of franchises to private persons to construct waterworks in a city
does not preclude the city from afterwards erecting such works
and supplying its inhabitants with water.
Walla Walla v. Walla Walla Water Co., 172 U. S. 1, is not in
opposition to these views. The city of Walla Walla was, by
the statute incorporating it, empowered to erect waterworks
or to authorize the erection of the same. In pursuance of
,this power it granted a franchise to the Walla Walla Company
and contracted to take water from the company, reserving
the right to avoid the contract under certain contingencies.
But it was provided that: "Until such contract shall have
been so avoided, the city of Walla Walla shall not erect, maintain or become interested in any waterworks except the ones
herein referred to, save as hereinafter specified." The contract was in force at the time the suit was brought and the
water company had substantially complied with all of its terms
and conditions. The contract passed upon, therefore, was
expressed and explicit. The power to make it was sustaihed.
In the case at bar restraint upon the power of the appellant
city is claimed to be implied by the grant to the appellee.
We think, forthe reasons stated and upon the authorities cited,
such restraint cannot be implied.
Decree reversed and case remanded with directions to dismiss
the bill,

