OCTOBER TERI, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

enough to consider the suggestion that the law is an interference with interstate commerce, within Cooper Manuf. Co.
v. Ferguson, 113 U. S. 727, 734, when the record presents it.
The question is one of degree, and it is obvious that the supposed interference is very remote. See Diamond Glue Co. v.
United States Glue Co., 187 U. S. 611, 616.
Judgment affirmed.

ANGLO-AMERICAN PROVISION CO. v. DAVIS PROVISION CO. No. 2.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 63. Argued November 9,1903.-Decided November 30, 1903.

When the Circuit Court has decided the question of its jurisdiction and the
alleged unconstitutionality of a state law in favor of the plaintiff, but
has decidcd against him on the merits, the plaintiff cannot appeal directly
to this court under the act of March 3, 189], c. 517, ยง 5, for the purpose
of a revision of the judgment on the merits.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Henry Wilson Bridges for appellant.
Mr. Frank E. Smith for appellee.
was on the brief.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

Mr. Thomas F. Conway

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the plaintiff's bill. The bill is founded on the matters
stated in the preceding case. It alleges that the Davis Provision Company recovered a judgment against the plaintiff, in
New York, about a year and a half after the judgment reco-ered by the plaintiff against the Davis Provision Company in
Illinois. It shows the effort of the plaintiff to recover in New

ANGLO-AW. FROV. CO. v. DAVIS PROV. CO. No. 2. 377
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Couit.

York on the Illinois judgment, and the action of the New York
courts which we have reviewed. It alleges that the two judgments arose out of the same transaction, and that by reason
of the New York decision the plaintiff is unable to set off the
judgment against that obtained in New York by the defendant. It sets up the unconstitutionality of the New York
statute, alleges the insolvency of the Davis Provision Company, and prays for a set-off of judgments. A demurrer to
the bill was overruled, 105 Fed. Rep. 536, but on final hearing
the bill was dismissed on the ground that the judgment in
favor of the Davis Provision Company had been assigned to
the defendant Weed, for value, and under such circumstances
that it was not subject to the set-off claimed. The plaintiff
appealed to this court.
It was admitted by the appellant, at the argument, that the
plaintiff would fail on the merits if the preceding case should
be decided as it has been. But we are precluded from an inquiry into the merits or even into the jurisdiction taken by
the Circuit Court under Rev. Stat. ยง 1977, 1979, until the
jurisdiction of this court to entertain the appeal is established.
Mansfield, Coldwater & Lake Michiga Railway Co. v. Swan,
111 U. S. 379, 382.
Under the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, ยง 5, 26 Stat. 827, this
must be maintained either as a case in which the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court is in issue, or as a case in which the "law of
a State is claimed to be in contravention of the Constitution
of the United States." With regard to the former ground, the
Circuit Court sustained the jurisdiction, and the case is disposed
of by United States v. Jahn, 155 U. S. 109, 114, 115. "If the
question of jurisdiction is in issue, and the jurisdiction sustained, and then judgment or decree is rendered in favor of the
defendant on the merits, the plaintiff, who has maintained the
jurisdiction, must appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
where, if the question of jurisdiction arises, the Circuit Court
of Appeals may certify it." With regard to the latter ground,
the decision of the Circuit Court again was in favor of the plain-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court

191 U. S.

tiff, and it has nothing of which to complain. "As a general
rule the court will not allow a party to rely on anything as
cause for reversing a judgment, which was for his advantage."
Cited from Mr. Justice Curtis' dissent in the Dred Scott case, 19
How. 393, 566, in Mansfield, Coldwater & Lake Michigan Railway Co. v. Swan, 111 U. S. 379, 383. This remark, to be sure,
is not strictly in point, as the plaintiff would not ask to have
the judgment reversed on the ground that this New York law
was constitutional. But it, with the quotation from United
States v. Jahn,helps to indicate a principle to be applied to the
construction of the words "in any case in which the constitution or law of a State is claimed to be in contravention of the
Constitution of the United States." Those words are general
in form, but they do not mean that whenever a party makes
a case of that sort he may appeal directly to this court whenever the decision is against him, no matter on what grounds,
although his contention about the state law is sustained. If
a party comes into the Circuit Court alleging that a state law
is unconstitutional, and the Circuit Court decides for him on
that point, the mere fact that there was such a question in the
case does not authorize him to appeal to this court on grounds
that otherwise would not support an appeal. See Lampasas
v. Bell, 180 U. S. 276. The present case illustrates the principle. The argument for the appellant is devoted not to any
constitutional or jurisdictional point, but to an attempt to
upset the decision of the Circuit Court upon the question,
mainly of fact, as to the good faith, etc., of Weed in taking the
assignment of the judgment. The provisions of ยง 5 of the act
of 1891 were not intended to be made an instrument for such
attempts.
Appeal dismissed.

