GASTON COUNTY v. UNITED STATES.

285

Syllabus:

GASTON COUNTY, NORTH CAROLINA v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM. THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 701.

Argued April 23-24, 1969.-Decided June 2, 1969.

The Voting Rights Act of 1965 suspends the use of any test or
device as a prerequisite to registering to vote, in any State or
political subdivision which, on November 1, 1964, maintained a
test or device and in which less than 50% of the voting-age

residents were registered or voted in the 1964 presidential election.
Suspension is automatic upon publication by the Attorney General
and the Director of the Census, respectively, that these conditions
apply to a particular governmental unit. Such determinations
were published with respect to Gaston County, North Carolina,
and the use of the State's literacy test within the County was
thereby suspended. Appellant brought suit to reinstate the test,
asserting in accord with § 4 (a) of the Act "that no such test or
device has been used during the five years preceding the filing
of the action for the purpose or with the effect of denying or
abridging the right to vote on account of race or color." The
Government contended that use of the test did have the "effect
of denying or abridging the right to vote on account of race or
color" because it placed an onerous burden on the Negroes for
whom the County had maintained separate and inferior schools.
The three-judge District Court denied relief, holding that the
County had not met its burden of proving that its use of the
literacy test, in the context of its historic maintenance of segregated and unequal schools, did not discriminatorily deprive Negroes
of the franchise. Held:
1. The Act's legislative history discloses that Congress was aware
of the potential effect of unequal educational opportunities upon
the right to vote when it designed the test-suspension provisions,
and it is appropriate in an action under § 4 (a) for a court to
consider whether a literacy or educational requirement has the
"effect of denying the right to vote on account of race or color"
because the State or subdivision seeking to impose the requirement
has maintained separate and inferior schools for its Negro citizens
who are now of voting age. Pp. 289;-293.

OCTOBER TERM, 1968.
Opinion of the Court.

395 U. S.

2. The District Court's conclusion that appellant had not met
the burden imposed by § 4 (a) of refuting the Government's prima
facie case that the use of the literacy test coupled with the
County's segregated and unequal school system had discriminatorily deprived Negroes of the franchise, was not clearly erroneous.
Pp. 293-296.
3. Appellant's contentions that reregistration in 1962 was conducted fairly and impartially and that significant strides have been
made in equalizing and integrating its school system do not refute
the fact that for many year, the County deprived its black citizens
of the educational opportunities it granted its white citizens and
that "impartial" administration of the literacy test today would
perpetuate those inequities in another form. Pp. 296-297.
288 F. Supp. 678, affirmed.

Grady B. Stott argued the cause for appellant.
him on the brief was Wesley E. McDonald, Sr.

With

Louis F. Claiborne argued the cause for the United
States. With him on the brief were Solicitor General
Griswold, Assistant Attorney General Leonard, Francis
X. Beytagh, Jr., and David L. Norman.
MR. JUTSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of. the
Court.
The Voting Rights Act of 1965 suspends the use of any
test or device 1 as a prerequisite to registering to vote in
any election, in any State or political subdivision which,
on November 1, 1964, maintained a test or device, and
in which less than 50% of the residents of voting age
were registered on that date or voted in the 1964 presi1

"The phrase 'test or device' shall mean any requirement that a

person as a prerequisite for voting or registration for voting (1) demonstrate the ability to read, write, understand, or interpret any
matter, (2) demonstrate any educational achievement or his knowledgc of any particular subject, (3) possess good moral character,
or (4) prove his qualifications by the voucher 'of registered voters
or members of any other class." Voting Rights Act of 1965, § 4 (c),
79 Stat. 438, 42 U. S. C. § 1973b (c) (1964 ed., Supp. III).

GASTON COUNTY v. UNITED STATES.
285

287

Opinion of the Court.

dential election. ' Suspension is automatic upon publication in the Federal Register of determinations by the
Attorney General and the Director of the Census, respectively, that these conditions apply to a particular
governmental unit. If the unit wishes to reinstate the
test or device, it must bring suit against the Government
in a three-judge district court in the District of Columbia and prove "that no such test or device has been
used during the five years preceding the filing of the
action for the purpose or with the effect of denying or
abridging the right to vote on account of race or color,"
§ 4 (a). The constitutionality of these provisions was
upheld in South Carolina v. Katzenbach, 383 U. S. 301
(1966).
On March 29, 1966, the Attorney General and the
Director of the Census published the necessary determinations with respect to appellant, Gaston County,
North Carolina. Use of the State's literacy test' within
the County was thereby suspended. On August 18, 1966,
appellant brought this action in the District Court, making the requisite averments and seeking to reinstate the
literacy test.
The United States opposed the granting of relief on
the ground, inter alia, that use of the test had "the effect
of denying or abridging the right to vote on account of
race or color" because it placed a specially onerous burden
on the County's Negro citizens for whom the County had
maintained separate and inferior schools.
2

§ 4 (a), 79 Stat. 438, 42 U. S. C. § 1973b (a) (1964 ed., Supp.

II).
3 N. C. Const., Art. VI, § 4, provides: "Every
himself for registration shall be able to read and
of the Constitution in the English language." At
to this case, N. C. Gen. Stat. § 163-28 mirrored
provision. In 1967 the statute was renumbered
wording was amended in minor aspects.

person presenting
write any section
all times relevant
the constitutional
§ 163-58 and its

OCTOBER TERM, 1968.
Opinion of the Court.

395 U. S.

After a full trial on this and other issues, the District
Court denied the relief requested, holding that appellant
had not met its burden of proving that its use of the
literacy test, in the context of its historic maintenance
of segregated and unequal schools, did not discriminatorily deprive Negroes of the franchise. Gaston County
v. United States, 288 F. Supp. 678 (1968). The court
made clear:
"[W]e do not rely solely on the fact-that the schools
in Gaston County have been segregated during the
period when persons presently of voting age were
of school age, but instead have reviewed the evidence
adduced by the Government in this case and concluded that the. Negro schools were of inferior quality
in fact as well as in law." Id., at 689-690, n. 23.
Pursuant to § 4 (a) of the Act, the County appealed
directly to this Court. We noted probable jurisdiction,
393 U. S. 1011 (1969), and we affirm for substantially
the reasons given by the majority in the District Court.
Appellant contends that the decision of the District
Court is erroneous on three scores: first, as a matter of
statutory construction and legislative history, the court
could not consider Gaston County's practice of educational discrimination in determining whether its literacy
test had the effect of discriminatorily denying the franchise; second, on the facts of this case, appellant met its
brden of proving that the education it provided had no
such effect; and third, whatever may have been the situatioi in the past, Gaston County has not fostered discrimination in education or voting in recent years. We
consider these arguments in turn.
'Judge Wright wrote the majority opinion, in which Judge Robinson joined. Judge Gasch dissented from the court's holding, see

infra, at 290-291. but would have denied appellant relief for different
reasons.

GASTON COUNTY v. UNITED STATES.
285

289

Opinion of the Court.

I.

The legislative history of the Voting Rights Act of
1965 discloses'that Congress was fully cognizant of the
potential effect of unequal educational opportunities
upon exercise of the franchise. This causal relationship
was, indeed, one of the principal arguments made in
support of the Act's test-suspension provisions. Attorney General Katzenbach testified before the Senate
Committee on the Judiciary:
"It might be suggested that this kind of [voting]
discrimination could be ended in a different wayby wiping the registration books clean and requiring
all voters, white or Negro, to register anew under a
uniformly applied literacy test.
[S]uch an approach would.not solve, but
would compound our present problems.
"To subject every citizen to a higher literacy
standard would, inevitably, work unfairly against
Negroes--Negroes who have for decades been systematically denied educational opportunity equal to
that available to the white population. Although
the discredited 'separate but equal' doctrine had
colorable constitutional legitimacy until 1954, the
notorious and tragic fact is that educational opportunities were pathetically inferior ior thousands of
Negroes who want to vote today.
"The impact of a general reregistration would
produce a real irony. Years of violation of the 14th
amendment, right of equal protection through equal
education, would become the excuse for continuing
violation of -the 15th amendment, right to vote."
Hearings on S. 1564 before the Senate Committee
on the Judiciary, 89th Cong., 1st Sess., 22.
Mr. Katzenbach testified similarly before the House
Committee. See Hearings on H. R. 6400 before Sub-

OCTOBER TERM, 1968.
Opinion of the Court.

395 U. S.

committee No. 5 of the House Committee on the Judiciary, 89th Cong., 1st Sess., 18-19, 49. And significantly,
the Report of the Senate Judiciary Committee explicitly
asserted:
"[T]he educational differences between whites and
Negroes in the areas to be covered by the prohibitions-differences which are reflected in the record
before the committee-would mean that equal application of the tests would abridge 15th amendment
rights. This advantage to whites is directly attributable to the States and localities involved." S.
Rep. No. 162, pt. 3, 89th Cong., 1st Sess., 16.5
Appellant's response to this seemingly unequivocal
legislative history is, in essence, that it proves too much.
As Judge Gasch put it in his separate opinion below:
"[I]t is ciear that the Voting Rights Act was primarily directed at the Southern states. In the Act,
the Congress allowed a fair opportunity for a certified unit to rebut the presumption that its literacy
test was used in a discriminatory manner. Thus,
sections 4 and 5 of the Act provide a procedure
whereby a State or political subdivision which has
been the subject of a certification under the Act,
may petition this Court for declaratory relief to reinstate its test before the five-year suspension period
5 In view of this obvious relationship, and acknowledgment of it

by the Attorney General and Congress, it is of no consequence that
the Act was explicitly designed to enforce the Fifteenth, and not the
Fourteenth, Amendment. See, e. g., Hearings on S. 1564 before
the Senate Committee on the Judiciary, 89th Cong., 1st Sess., 141142; Hearings on H. R. 6400 before Subcommittee No. 5 of the
House Committee on the Judiciary, 89th Cong., 1st Sess., 49-50, 66,
102. The Act was, of course, concerned solely with voting rights,
and discrimination in education bears on the Act only insofar as it
may result in discriminatory abridgment of the franchise.

GASTON COUNTY v. UNITED STATES.
285

291

Opinion of the Court.

has elapsed. Sections 4 and 5 will provide no
remedy to a Southern state, however, if, as the
majority finds, a segregated school system coupled
with census data showing higher literacy and education for whites than for Negroes, is sufficient to preclude recovery under the Act. We can take judicial
notice that the segregated school system was the prevailing system throughout the South. If this were
what Congress had in mind, it would have stated
that no test could be used where literacy was higher
anong whites than among Negroes. I do not believe
that Congress intended that the Act be interpreted
in such a way as to render §§ 4 and 5 inapplicable
to Southern states or those which had segregated
educational systems." 288 F. Supp., at 690, 695.
Appellant's contentions fundamentally misconceive the
import of the majority opinion below, as we read it.
That opinion explicitly disclaims establishing any per se
rule. The court's- decision is premised not merely on
Gaston County's historic maintenance of a dual school
system, but on substantial evidence that the County deprived its black residents of equal educational opportunities, which in turn deprived them of an equal chance
to pass the literacy test. Consistent with the court's
holding, a State or subdivision may demonstrate that
although its dchools suffered from the inequality inherent
in any segregated system, see Brown v. Board of Education, 347 U. S.483 (1954), the dual educational system
had no appreciable discriminatory effect on the ability
of persons of voting age to meet a literacy requirement.
It is of no consequence that Congress might have dealt
with the effects of educational discrimination by employing a coverage formula different from the one it enacted.
rhe coverage formula chosen by Congress was designed to

OCTOBER TERM, 1968.
Opinion of the Court.

395 U. S.

be speedy, objective, and incontrovertible; 6 it is triggered
appropriately by voting or registration figures. The areas
-at which the Act was directed
"share two characteristics incorporated by Congress
into the coverage formula: the use of tests and
devices for voter registration, -and a voting rate in
the 1964 presidential election at least 12 points
below the national average. Tests and devices are
relevant to voting discrimination because of their
long history as a tool for perpetrating the evil; a
low voting rate is pertinent for the obvious reason
that widespread disenfranchisement must inevitably
affect the number of actual voters. Accordingly, the
coverage formula is rational in both practice and
theory." South Carolina v. Katzenbach, 383 U. S.
301, 330 (1966).
In contrast, a coverage formula baied on educational
disparities, or one based on literacy rates, would be administratively cumbersome: the designation of racially
disparate school systems is not susceptible of speedy,
objective, and incontrovertible determination; and the
Bureau of the Census collects no accurate county statistics on literacy. Furthermore, a coverage formula based
on either of these factors would not serve as an appropriate basis for suspending all of the tests and devices
encompassed by § 4 (c) of the Act--for example, a "good
moral character" requirement.!
A Section 4 (b) of the Act makes the determinations by the Attorney General and the Director of the Census unreviewable in any
court. "[T]he findings not subject to review consist of objective
statistical determinations by the Census Bureau and a routine analysis of state statutes by the Justice Department. These functions
are unlikely to miouse any plausible dispute."
South Carolina v.
Katzenbach, 383 U. S. 301, 333 (1966).
See n. 1, supra; Hearings on H. R. 6400 before Subcommittee
No. 5 of the House Committee on the Judiciary, 89th Cong., 1st
Sess., 30-31.

GASTON COUNTY v. UNITED STATES.
285

293

Opinion of the Court.

We conclude that in an action brought under § 4 (a)
of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, it is appropriate for a
court to consider whether a literacy or eaucational requirement has the "effect of denying.., the right to vote
on account of race or color" because the State or subdivision which seeks to impose the requirement has maintained separate and inferior schools for its Negro resident,who are now of voting age.'
II.
In an action for declaratory relief under § 4 (a) of the
Voting Rights Act of 1965, the plaintiff carries the burden
of proof. The plaintiff cannot be expected to raise and
refute every conceivable defense, however, cf. Federal
Rules of Civil Procedure, Rule 9 (c), and it was incumbent upon the Government in the case at bar to put
into issue its contention that appellant's use of the literacy test, coupled with its racially segregated and
unequal school system, discriminatorily deprived Negroes
of the franchise. The plaintiff-appellant would then
have the burden of proving the contrary. See South
Carolina v Katzenbach, 383 U. S. 301, 332 (1966).
The Government did place this contention in issue,
and in support thereof it introduced considerable evidence, which we now summarize.
All persons of voting age in 1966 who attended schools
*in Gaston County I attended racially separate and un8

.We have no occasion to decide whether the Act would permit
reinstatement of a literacy test in the face of racially disparate educational or literacy achievements for which a government bore no
responsibility.
9We assume, and appellant does not suggest otherwise, that most
of the adult residents of Gaston County resided there as children
Cf. Bureau of the Census, 1960 Census of Population, Vol. I, pt. 35,
table 39. It would seem a matter of no legal significance that they
may have been educated in other counties or States also maintaining
segregated and unequal school systems.

OCTOBER TERM, 1968.
Opinion of the Court.

395 U. S.

equal schools.1 Between the years 1908 and 1929, when
approximately 45% of the voting age population was
of school age, the salaries of Negro teachers in the
County ranged from a low of about 20% to a high of
about 50% of those of their white colleagues. In 1919,
when uniform teacher certification was first required in
North Carolina, 98% of the white teachers, but only 5%
of the Negro teachers, qualified for regular state teaching
certificates. The remaining 95% of the Negro teachers
held "second grade" certificates. The Biennial Report
of the State Superintendent of Public Instruction, 19181920, described a second grade certificate as "the lowest
permit issued to any teacher in the State. It is not a
certificate in the proper sense, but merely a permit to
teach until someone can be found who is competent to
take the place."
During this same period, the per-pupil valuation of
Negro school property in the County ranged from 20%
to about 40% of that of the white schools. A much
higher proportion of Negro than of white children
attended one-room, one-teacher, wooden schoolhouses
which contained no desks.
By the 1938-1939 school year, Negro teachers' salaries
had increased to about 70% of that of white teachers,
and by the 1948-1949 school year, salaries were almost
equal. At this later date, the per-pupil valuation of
Negro school property was still only about one-third
that of the white schools.
Of those persons over 25 years old at the time of the
1960 census, the proportion of Negroes with no schooling
10 Gaston County v. United States, 288 F. Supp. 678, 686 (1968).

Unless otherwise indicated, the facts and statistics set out below,
which are not controverted, appear in the opinion of the District
Court, 288 F. Supp., at 686-687, or in Government's Exhibit No. 2
(Excerpts from the Reports of the Superintendent of Public Instruction of North Carolina).

GASTON COUNTY v. UNITED STATES.
285

295

Opinion of the Court.

whatever was twice that of whites in Gaston County;
the proportion of Negroes with four or less years of education was slightly less than twice that of whites.
In 1962, Gaston County changed its system of registration and required a general reregistration of all voters.
North Carolina law provides that "[e]very person presenting himself for registration shall be able to read and
write any section of the Constitution in the English
language." N. C. Const., Art. VI, § 4; see n. 3, supra.
The State Supreme Court has described this requirement
as "relatively high, even after more than a half century
of free public schools and universal education," Bazemore
v. Bertie County Board of Elections, 254 N. C. 398, 402,
119 S. E. 2d 637, 641 (1961), 11 and a Negro minister
active in voter registration testified that it placed an especially heavy burden on the County's older Negro citizens.
Appendix 131-132. It was publicized throughout the
County that the literacy requirement would be enforced.
A registrar told a Negro leader not to bring illiterates
to register. Some Negroes who attempted to register
were, in fact, rejected because they could not pass the
test, and others did not attempt to register, knowing that
they could not meet the standard.
With this evidence, the Government had not only put
its contention in issue, but had made out a prima facie
case. It is only reasonable to infer that among black
children compelled to endure a segregated and inferior
education, fewer will achieve any given degree of literacy
than will their better-educated white contemporaries.1 2
And on the Government's showing, it was certainly proper
11 Elsewhere in its opinion, the court stated that a registrant must
be able to read aloud, as well as copy, a section of the State Constitution. 254 N. C., at 404, 119 S. E. 2d, at 642. Appellant's registrars required only that a registrant copy one of three sentences of
the Constitution.
12 This is, indeed, an inference that appears throughout the Act's
legislative history. See supra, at 289-290.

OCTOBER TERM, 1968.
Opinion of the Court.

395 U. S.

to infer that Gaston County's inferior Negro schools
provided many of its Negro residents with, a subliterate
education, and gave many others little inducement to
enter or remain in school.
The only evidence introduced by the appellant in rebuttal was the testimony of Thebaud Jeffers, a Negro
principal of a Negro high school, who had first come to
Gaston County in 1932. He stated that "[a]ll of our
schools . . . would have been able to teach any Negro
child to read and write so that he could read a newspaper,
so that he could read any simple material," and so that
he could pass the literacy test. Appendix 169.
The District Court characterized Mr. Jeffers as an
"interested witness," and found his testimony "unpersuasive' vthen measured against the Government's evidence. The court further noted that the principal's
knowledge about the school system dated only from 1932,
by which time some of the more blatant educational
disparities were being reduced. Almost one-half of the
county's black adults were of school age well before
Mr. Jeffers' arrival.
The District Court concluded that appellant had not
met the burden imposed by § 4 (a) of the Voting Rights
Act of 1965. This was not clearly erroneous.
III.
Appellant urges that it administered the 1962 reregistration in a fair and impartial manner, and that in
recent years it has made significant strides toward equalizing and integrating its school system. Although we
accept these claims as true, they fall wide of the mark.
Affording .today's Negro youth equal educational opportunities will doubtless prepare them to meet, on equal
terms, whatever standards of literacy are required when
they reach voting age. It does nothing for their parents,
however. From this record, we cannot escap, the sae

GASTON COUNTY v. UNITED STATES.
285

297

Opinion of the Court.

truth that throughout the years Gaston County systematically deprived its black citizens of- the educational
opportunities it granted to its white citizens. "Impartial" administration of the literacy test today would serve
only to perpetuate these inequities in a different form.
The judgment of the District Court is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK dissents for substantially the same
reasons he stated in § (b) of his separate opinion in
South Carolina v. Katzenbach, 383 U. S. 301, 355, 358.

