OCTOBER TERM, 1998
Syllabus

OLMSTEAD, COMMISSIONER, GEORGIA DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN RESOURCES, ET AL. v. L. C.,
BY ZIMRING, GUARDIAN AD LITEM AND NEXT
FRIEND, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE ELEVENTH CIRCUIT
No. 98-536. Argued April 21, 1999-Decided June 22, 1999
In the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA), Congress described
the isolation and segregation of individuals with disabilities as a serious and pervasive form of discrimination. 42 U. S. C. §§ 12101(a)(2), (5).
Title II of the ADA, which proscribes discrimination in the provision
of public services, specifies, inter alia, that no qualified individual
with a disability shall, "by reason of such disability," be excluded from
participation in, or be denied the benefits of, a public entity's services, programs, or activities. §12132. Congress instructed the Attorney General to issue regulations implementing Title II's discrimination proscription. See § 12134(a). One such regulation, known as the
"integration regulation," requires a "public entity [to] administer ...
programs... in the most integrated setting appropriate to the needs
of qualified individuals with disabilities." 28 CFR §35.130(d). A further prescription, here called the "reasonable-modifications regulation,"
requires public entities to "make reasonable modifications" to avoid
"discrimination on the basis of disability," but does not require measures
that would "fundamentally alter" the nature of the entity's programs.
§35.130(b)(7).
Respondents L. C. and E. W. are mentally retarded women; L. C.
has also been diagnosed with schizophrenia, and E. W., with a personality disorder. Both women were voluntarily admitted to Georgia
Regional Hospital at Atlanta (GRH), where they were confined for
treatment in a psychiatric unit. Although their treatment professionals
eventually concluded that each of the women could be cared for appropriately in a community-based program, the women remained institutionalized at GRH. Seeking placement in community care, L. C. filed
this suit against petitioner state officials (collectively, the State) under
42 U. S. C. § 1983 and Title II. She alleged that the State violated
Title II in failing to place her in a community-based program once
her treating professionals determined that such placement was appropriate. E. W. intervened, stating an identical claim. The District
Court granted partial summary judgment for the women, ordering their

OLMSTEAD v. L. C.
Syllabus
placement in an appropriate community-based treatment program
The court rejected the State's argument that inadequate funding, not
discrimination against L. C. and E. W. "by reason of [their] disabilities],"
accounted for their retention at GRH. Under Title II, the court concluded, unnecessary institutional segregation constitutes discrimination
per se, which cannot be justified by a lack of funding. The court also
rejected the State's defense that requiring immediate transfers in such
cases would "fundamentally alter" the State's programs. The Eleventh
Circuit affirmed the District Court's judgment, but remanded for reassessment of the State's cost-based defense. The District Court had left
virtually no room for such a defense. The appeals court read the statute and regulations to allow the defense, but only in tightly limited
circumstances. Accordingly, the Eleventh Circuit instructed the District Court to consider, as a key factor, whether the additional cost for
treatment of L. C. and E. W. in community-based care would be unreasonable given the demands of the State's mental health budget.
Hel& The judgment is affirmed in part and vacated in part, and the case
is remanded.
138 F. 3d 893, affirmed in part, vacated in part, and remanded.
JusTIcE GINSBURG delivered the opinion of the Court with respect
to Parts I, II, and III-A, concluding that, under Title II of the ADA,
States are required to place persons with mental disabilities in community settings rather than in institutions when the State's treatment professionals have determined that community placement is appropriate,
the transfer from institutional care to a less restrictive setting is not
opposed by the affected individual, and the placement can be reasonably
accommodated, taking into account the resources available to the State
and the needs of others with mental disabilities. Pp. 596-603.
(a) The integration and reasonable-modifications regulations issued
by the Attorney General rest on two key determinations: (1) Unjustified
placement or retention of persons in institutions severely limits their
exposure to the outside community, and therefore constitutes a form of
discrimination based on disability prohibited by Title II, and (2) qualifying their obligation to avoid unjustified isolation of individuals with
disabilities, States can resist modifications that would fundamentally
alter the nature of their services and programs. The Eleventh Circuit
essentially upheld the Attorney General's construction of the ADA.
This Court affirms the Court of Appeals decision in substantial part.
Pp. 596-597.
(b) Undue institutionalization qualifies as discrimination "by reason
of... disability," The Department of Justice has consistently advocated that it does. Because the Department is the agency directed

Cite as: 527 U. S. 581 (1999)
Syllabus
by Congress to issue Title II regulations, its views warrant respect.
This Court need not inquire whether the degree of deference described
in Chevron U.S. A. Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc.,
467 U. S. 837, 844, is in order; the well-reasoned views of the agencies
implementing a statute constitute a body of experience and informed
judgment to which courts and litigants may properly resort for guidance. E. g., Bragdon v. Abbott, 524 U.S. 624, 642. According to the
State, L. C. and E. W. encountered no discrimination "by reason of"
their disabilities because they were not denied community placement
on account of those disabilities, nor were they subjected to "discrimination," for they identified no comparison class of similarly situated individuals given preferential treatment. In rejecting these positions,
the Court recognizes that Congress had a more comprehensive view of
the concept of discrimination advanced in the ADA. The ADA stepped
up earlier efforts in the Developmentally Disabled Assistance and Bill
of Rights Act and the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 to secure opportunities for people with developmental disabilities to enjoy the benefits of
community living. The ADA both requires all public entities to refrain
from discrimination, see § 12132, and specifically identifies unjustified
"segregation" of persons with disabilities as a "for[m] of discrimination,"
see §§ 12101(a)(2), 12101(a)(5). The identification of unjustified segregation as discrimination reflects two evident judgments: Institutional
placement of persons who can handle and benefit from community settings perpetuates unwarranted assumptions that persons so isolated are
incapable or unworthy of participating in community life, cf, e. g., Allen
v. Wright, 468 U. S. 737, 755; and institutional confinement severely
diminishes individuals' everyday life activities. Dissimilar treatment
correspondingly exists in this key respect: In order to receive needed
medical services, persons with mental disabilities must, because of those
disabilities, relinquish participation in community life they could enjoy
given reasonable accommodations, while persons without mental disabilities can receive the medical services they need without similar
sacrifice. The State correctly uses the past tense to frame its argument that, despite Congress' ADA findings, the Medicaid statute "reflected" a congressional policy preference for institutional treatment
over treatment in the community. Since 1981, Medicaid has in fact provided funding for state-run home and community-based care through a
waiver program. This Court emphasizes that nothing in the ADA or
its implementing regulations condones termination of institutional settings for persons unable to handle or benefit from community settings.
Nor is there any federal requirement that community-based treatment
be imposed on patients who do not desire it. In this case, however,
it is not genuinely disputed that L. C. and E. W. are individuals "quail-

OLMSTEAD v. L. C.
Syllabus
fled" for noninstitutional care: The State's own professionals determined
that community-based treatment would be appropriate for L. C. and
E. W., and neither woman opposed such treatment. Pp. 597-603.
JUSTICE GINSBURG, joined by JUSTICE O'CONNOR, JUSTICE SOUTER,
and JUSTICE BREYER, concluded in Part II1-B that the State's responsibility, once it provides community-based treatment to qualified persons with disabilities, is not boundless. The reasonable-modifications
regulation speaks of "reasonable modifications" to avoid discrimination,
and allows States to resist modifications that entail a "fundamenta[l]
alter[ation]" of the States' services and programs. If, as the Eleventh
Circuit indicated, the expense entailed in placing one or two people in a
community-based treatment program is properly measured for reasonableness against the State's entire mental health budget, it is unlikely
that a State, relying on the fundamental-alteration defense, could ever
prevail. Sensibly construed, the fundamental-alteration component of
the reasonable-modifications regulation would allow the State to show
that, in the allocation of available resources, immediate relief for the
plaintiffs would be inequitable, given the responsibility the State has
undertaken for the care and treatment of a large and diverse population of persons with mental disabilities. The ADA is not reasonably
read to impel States to phase out institutions, placing patients in need
of close care at risk. Nor is it the ADA's mission to drive States to
move institutionalized patients into an inappropriate setting, such as
a homeless shelter, a placement the State proposed, then retracted,
for E. W. Some individuals, like L. C. and E. W. in prior years, may
need institutional care from time to time to stabilize acute psychiatric
symptoms. For others, no placement outside the institution may ever
be appropriate. To maintain a range of facilities and to administer
services with an even hand, the State must have more leeway than the
courts below understood the fundamental-alteration defense to allow.
If, for example, the State were to demonstrate that it had a comprehensive, effectively working plan for placing qualified persons with
mental disabilities in less restrictive settings, and a waiting list that
moved at a reasonable pace not controlled by the State's endeavors
to keep its institutions fully populated, the reasonable-modifications
standard would be met. In such circumstances, a court would have
no warrant effectively to order displacement of persons at the top of
the community-based treatment waiting list by individuals lower down
who commenced civil actions. The case is remanded for further consideration of the appropriate relief, given the range of the State's facilities for the care of persons with diverse mental disabilities, and its
obligation to administer services with an even hand. Pp. 603-606.

Cite as: 527 U. S. 581 (1999)
Syllabus
JUSTICE STEVENS would affirm the judgment of the Court of
Appeals, but because there are not five votes for that disposition,
joined the Court's judgment and Parts I, II, and III-A of its opinion.
Pp. 607-608.
JUSTICE KENNEDY concluded that the case must be remanded for a
determination of the questions the Court poses and for a determination
whether respondents can show a violation of 42 U. S. C. § 12132's ban
on discrimination based on the summary judgment materials on file or
any further pleadings and materials properly allowed. On the ordinary
interpretation and meaning of the term, one who alleges discrimination
must show that she received differential treatment vis-i-vis members
of a different group on the basis of a statutorily described characteristic.
Thus, respondents could demonstrate discrimination by showing that
Georgia (i) provides treatment to individuals suffering from medical
problems of comparable seriousness, (ii) as a general matter, does so
in the most integrated setting appropriate for the treatment of those
problems (taking medical and other practical considerations into account), but (iii) without adequate justification, fails to do so for a group
of mentally disabled persons (treating them instead in separate, locked
institutional facilities). This inquiry would not be simple. Comparisons of different medical conditions and the corresponding treatment
regimens might be difficult, as would be assessments of the degree of
integration of various settings in which medical treatment is offered.
Thus far, respondents have identified no class of similarly situated individuals, let alone shown them to have been given preferential treatment.
Without additional information, the Court cannot address the issue in
the way the statute demands. As a consequence, the partial summary
judgment granted respondents ought not to be sustained. In addition,
it was error in the earlier proceedings to restrict the relevance and
force of the State's evidence regarding the comparative costs of treatment. The State is entitled to wide discretion in adopting its own systems of cost analysis, and, if it chooses, to allocate health care resources
based on fixed and overhead costs for whole institutions and programs.
The lower courts should determine in the first instance whether a statutory violation is sufficiently alleged and supported in respondents' summary judgment materials and, if not, whether they should be given
leave to replead and to introduce evidence and argument along the lines
suggested. Pp. 611-615.
GINSBURG, J., announced the judgment of the Court and delivered
the opinion of the Court with respect to Parts I, II, and III-A, in which
STEVENS, O'CONNOR, SOUTER, and BREYER, JJ., joined, and an opin-

OLMSTEAD v. L. C.
Syllabus
ion with respect to Part III-B, in which O'CONNOR, Sour=a, and BREYER,
JJ., joined. STEVENS, J., filed an opinion concurring in part and concurring in the judgment, post, p. 607. KENNEDY, J., filed an opinion concurring in the judgment, in which BREYER, J., joined as to Part I, post,
p. 608. THOMAS, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which REHNQUIST, C. J.,
and ScAMA, J., joined, post, p. 615.

Beverly Patricia Downing, Senior Assistant Attorney
General of Georgia, argued the cause for petitioners. With
her on the briefs were Thurbert E. Baker, Attorney General,
Kathleen M. Pacious, Deputy Attorney General, Jefferson
James Davis, Special Assistant Attorney General, and Jeffrey S. Sutton.
Michael H. Gottesman argued the cause for respondents.
With him on the brief were Steven D. Caley, Susan C. Jamieson, and David A. Webster.
Irving L. Gornstein argued the cause for the United
States as amicus curiae urging affirmance. With him on
the brief were Solicitor General Waxman, Acting Assistant
Attorney General Lee, Deputy Solicitor General Under-

wood, Jessica Dunsay Silver, and Gregory B. Friel.*
*Briefs of amici curiaeurging reversal were filed for the State of Nevada et al. by Frankie Sue Del Papa,Attorney General of Nevada, and
Anne B. Cathcart, Special Assistant Attorney General, Mike Moore, Attorney General of Mississippi, and Robert E. Sanders, Assistant Attorney
General, John Cornyn, Attorney General of Texas, Andy Taylor, First
Assistant Attorney General, Linda S. Eads, Deputy Attorney General,
and Gregory S. Coleman, Solicitor General, and by the Attorneys General
for their respective States as follows: Ken L. Salazar of Colorado, Jeffrey
A Modisett of Indiana, Margery S. Bronster of Hawaii, Richard P. Ieyoub
of Louisiana, Thomas F Reilly of Massachusetts, Joseph P. Mazurek of
Montana, Charles M. Condon of South Carolina, Paul G. Summers of
Tennessee, Christine 0. Gregoire of Washington, and Gay Woodhouse of
Wyoming; and for the National Conference of State Legislatures et al. by
Richard Ruda and James I. Crowley.
Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the American
Association on Mental Retardation et al. by Alan M. Wiseman, Timothy
YK Armstrong, and Ira A Burnim; for the American Civil Liberties Union
et al. by Laurie Webb Daniel and Steven R. Shapiro; for the American

Cite as: 527 U. S. 581 (1999)
Opinion of the Court

JUSTICE GINSBURG announced the judgment of the Court
and delivered the opinion of the Court with respect to
Parts I, II, and III-A, and an opinion with respect to Part
III-B, in which JUSTICE O'CONNOR, JUSTICE SOUTER, and
JUSTICE BREYER join.

This case concerns the proper construction of the antidiscrimination provision contained in the public services
portion (Title II) of the Americans with Disabilities Act
of 1990 (ADA), 104 Stat. 337, 42 U. S. C. §12132. Specifically, we confront the question whether the proscription of
discrimination may require placement of persons with mental disabilities in community settings rather than in institutions. The answer, we hold, is a qualified yes. Such action
is in order when the State's treatment professionals have
determined that community placement is appropriate, the
transfer from institutional care to a less restrictive setting
is not opposed by the affected individual, and the placement
can be reasonably accommodated, taking into account the resources available to the State and the needs of others with
mental disabilities. In so ruling, we affirm the decision of
the Eleventh Circuit in substantial part. We remand the
case, however, for further consideration of the appropriate
relief, given the range of facilities the State maintains for
the care and treatment of persons with diverse mental disabilities, and its obligation to administer services with an
even hand.
Psychiatric Association et al. by Richard G. Taranto; for 58 Former State
Commissioners and Directors of Mental Health and Developmental Disabilities et al. by Neil V McKittrick;for the National Council on Disability
by Robert L. Burgdorf Jr.; for the National Mental Health Consumers'
Self-Help Clearinghouse et al. by LoralynMcKinley; for Dick Thornburgh
et al. by Mr. Thornburgh, pro se, James E. Day, and David R. Fine; for
People First of Georgia et al. by Thomas K. Gilhool; and for the Voice of
the Retarded et al. by William J Burke and Tamie Hopp.
Stephen F. Gold filed a brief for ADAPT et al. as amici curiae.

OLMSTEAD v. L. C.

Opinion of the Court

I
This case, as it comes to us, presents no constitutional
question. The complaints filed by plaintiffs-respondents
L. C. and E. W. did include such an issue; L. C. and E. W.
alleged that defendants-petitioners, Georgia health care
officials, failed to afford them minimally adequate care and
freedom from undue restraint, in violation of their rights
under the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. See Complaint
87-91; Intervenor's Complaint
30-34. But neither the District Court nor the Court of
Appeals reached those Fourteenth Amendment claims. See
Civ. No. 1:95-cv-1210-MHS (ND Ga., Mar. 26, 1997), pp. 5-6,
11-13, App. to Pet. for Cert. 34a-35a, 40a-41a; 138 F. 3d 893,
895, and n. 3 (CAll 1998). Instead, the courts below resolved the case solely on statutory grounds. Our review is
similarly confined. Cf. Cleburne v. Cleburne Living Center,
Inc., 473 U. S. 432, 450 (1985) (Texas city's requirement of
special use permit for operation of group home for mentally
retarded, when other care and multiple-dwelling facilities
were freely permitted, lacked rational basis and therefore
violated Equal Protection Clause of Fourteenth Amendment). Mindful that it is a statute we are construing, we
set out first the legislative and regulatory prescriptions on
which the case turns.
In the opening provisions of the ADA, Congress stated
findings applicable to the statute in all its parts. Most relevant to this case, Congress determined that
"(2) historically, society has tended to isolate and segregate individuals with disabilities, and, despite some
improvements, such forms of discrimination against individuals with disabilities continue to be a serious and
pervasive social problem;
"(3) discrimination against individuals with disabilities persists in such critical areas as... institutionalization... ;

Cite as: 527 U. S. 581 (1999)
Opinion of the Court

"(5) individuals with disabilities continually encounter
various forms of discrimination, including outright intentional exclusion, .. .failure to make modifications
to existing facilities and practices, . . . [and] segrega1
tion ...." 42 U. S. C. §§ 12101(a)(2), (3), (5).

Congress then set forth prohibitions against discrimination
in employment (Title I, §§ 12111-12117), public services furnished by governmental entities (Title II, §§ 12131-12165),
and public accommodations provided by private entities
(Title III, §§ 12181-12189). The statute as a whole is intended "to provide a clear and comprehensive national mandate for the elimination of discrimination against individuals
2
with disabilities." § 12101(b)(1).
This case concerns Title II, the public services portion
of the ADA. The provision of Title II centrally at issue
reads:
"Subject to the provisions of this subchapter, no qualified individual with a disability shall, by reason of such
1

The ADA, enacted in 1990, is the Federal Government's most recent
and extensive endeavor to address discrimination against persons with
disabilities. Earlier legislative efforts included the Rehabilitation Act
of 1973, 87 Stat. 355, 29 U. S. C. § 701 et seq. (1976 ed.), and the Developmentally Disabled Assistance and Bill of Rights Act, 89 Stat. 486, 42
U. S. C. §6001 et seq. (1976 ed.), enacted in 1975. In the ADA, Congress
for the first time referred expressly to "segregation" of persons with disabilities as a "for[m] of discrimination," and to discrimination that persists
in the area of "institutionalization." §§ 12101(a)(2), (3), (5).
2
The ADA defines "disability," "with respect to an individual," as
"(A) a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or
more of the major life activities of such individual;
"(B) a record of such an impairment; or
"(C) being regarded as having such an impairment." § 12102(2).
There is no dispute that L. C. and E. W. are disabled within the meaning
of 3the ADA.
In addition to the provisions set out in Part A governing public services generally, see §§ 12131-12134, Title II contains in Part B a host of
provisions governing public transportation services, see §§ 12141-12165.

OLMSTEAD v. L. C.
Opinion of the Court

disability, be excluded from participation in or be denied
the benefits of the services, programs, or activities of a
public entity, or be subjected to discrimination by any
such entity." §201, as set forth in 42 U. S. C. § 12132.
Title II's definition section states that "public entity" includes "any State or local government," and "any department, agency, [or] special purpose district." §§ 12131(1)(A),
(B). The same section defines "qualified individual with a
disability" as
"an individual with a disability who, with or without
reasonable modifications to rules, policies, or practices,
the removal of architectural, communication, or transportation barriers, or the provision of auxiliary aids and
services, meets the essential eligibility requirements for
the receipt of services or the participation in programs
or activities provided by a public entity." § 12131(2).
On redress for violations of § 12132's discrimination prohibition, Congress referred to remedies available under § 505
of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, 92 Stat. 2982, 29 U. S. C.
§ 794a. See § 203, as set forth in 42 U. S. C. § 12133 ("The
remedies, procedures, and rights set forth in [§ 505 of the
Rehabilitation Act] shall be the remedies, procedures, and
rights this subchapter provides to any person alleging discrimination on the basis of disability in violation of section
4
12132 of this title.").
'Section 505 of the Rehabilitation Act incorporates the remedies,
rights, and procedures set forth in Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of
1964 for violations of § 504 of the Rehabilitation Act. See 29 U.S. C.
§ 794a(a)(2). Title VI, in turn, directs each federal department authorized
to extend financial assistance to any department or agency of a State to
issue rules and regulations consistent with achievement of the objectives of the statute authorizing financial assistance. See 78 Stat. 252, 42
U. S. C. §2000d-1. Compliance with such requirements may be effected
by the termination or denial of federal funds, or "by any other means
authorized by law." Ibid. Remedies both at law and in equity are available for violations of the statute. See §2000d-7(a)(2).

Cite as: 527 U. S. 581 (1999)
Opinion of the Court

Congress instructed the Attorney General to issue regulations implementing provisions of Title II, including
§ 12132's discrimination proscription. See §204, as set forth
in § 12134(a) ("[T]he Attorney General shall promulgate regulations in an accessible format that implement this part.").5
The Attorney General's regulations, Congress further directed, "shall be consistent with this chapter and with the
coordination regulations... applicable to recipients of Federal financial assistance under [§ 504 of the Rehabilitation
Act]." § 204, as set forth in 42 U. S. C. § 12134(b). One of
the § 504 regulations requires recipients of federal funds to
"administer programs and activities in the most integrated
5Congress directed the Secretary of Transportation to issue regulations
implementing the portion of Title II concerning public transportation.
See 42 U. S. C. §§ 12143(b), 12149, 12164. As stated in the regulations,
a person alleging discrimination on the basis of disability in violation of
Title II may seek to enforce its provisions by commencing a private lawsuit, or by filing a complaint with (a) a federal agency that provides funding to the public entity that is the subject of the complaint, (b) the Department of Justice for referral to an appropriate agency, or (c) one of eight
federal agencies responsible for investigating complaints arising under
Title II: the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Education, the
Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of Housing
and Urban Development, the Department of the Interior, the Department
of Justice, the Department of Labor, and the Department of Transportation. See 28 CFR §§35.170(c), 35.172(b), 35.190(b) (1998).
The ADA contains several other provisions allocating regulatory and
enforcement responsibility. Congress instructed the Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission (EEOC) to issue regulations implementing Title
I, see 42 U. S. C. § 12116; the EEOC, the Attorney General, and persons
alleging discrimination on the basis of disability in violation of Title I may
enforce its provisions, see § 12117(a). Congress similarly instructed the
Secretary of Transportation and the Attorney General to issue regulations
implementing provisions of Title III, see §§ 12186(a)(1), (b); the Attorney
General and persons alleging discrimination on the basis of disability in
violation of Title III may enforce its provisions, see §§ 12188(a)(1), (b).
Each federal agency responsible for ADA implementation may render
technical assistance to affected individuals and institutions with respect
to provisions of the ADA for which the agency has responsibility. See
§12206(c)(1).

OLMSTEAD v. L. C.
Opinion of the Court

setting appropriate to the needs of qualified handicapped
persons." 28 CFR § 41.51(d) (1998).
As Congress instructed, the Attorney General issued Title
II regulations, see 28 CFR pt. 35 (1998), including one modeled on the §504 regulation just quoted; called the "integration regulation," it reads:
"A public entity shall administer services, programs,
and activities in the most integrated setting appropriate
to the needs of qualified individuals with disabilities."
28 CFR § 35.130(d) (1998).
The preamble to the Attorney General's Title II regulations
defines "the most integrated setting appropriate to the needs
of qualified individuals with disabilities" to mean "a setting
that enables individuals with disabilities to interact with
non-disabled persons to the fullest extent possible." 28
CFR pt. 35, App. A, p. 450 (1998). Another regulation requires public entities to "make reasonable modifications" to
avoid "discrimination on the basis of disability," unless those
modifications would entail a "fundamenta[l] alter[ation]";
called here the "reasonable-modifications regulation," it
provides:
"A public entity shall make reasonable modifications
in policies, practices, or procedures when the modifications are necessary to avoid discrimination on the basis
of disability, unless the public entity can demonstrate
that making the modifications would fundamentally
alter the nature of the service, program, or activity."
28 CFR § 35.130(b)(7) (1998).
We recite these regulations with the caveat that we do not
here determine their validity. While the parties differ on
the proper construction and enforcement of the regulations,
we do not understand petitioners to challenge the regulatory
formulations themselves as outside the congressional authorization. See Brief for Petitioners 16-17, 36, 40-41;

Cite as: 527 U. S. 581 (1999)
Opinion of the Court

Reply Brief 15-16 (challenging the Attorney General's interpretation of the integration regulation).
II
With the key legislative provisions in full view, we summarize the facts underlying this dispute. Respondents L. C.
and E. W. are mentally retarded women; L. C. has also been
diagnosed with schizophrenia, and E. W. with a personality
disorder. Both women have a history of treatment in institutional settings. In May 1992, L. C. was voluntarily
admitted to Georgia Regional Hospital at Atlanta (GRH),
where she was confined for treatment in a psychiatric unit.
By May 1993, her psychiatric condition had stabilized, and
L. C.'s treatment team at GRH agreed that her needs could
be met appropriately in one of the community-based programs the State supported. Despite this evaluation, L. C.
remained institutionalized until February 1996, when the
State placed her in a community-based treatment program.
E. W. was voluntarily admitted to GRH in February 1995;
like L. C., E. W. was confined for treatment in a psychiatric
unit. In March 1995, GRH sought to discharge E. W. to a
homeless shelter, but abandoned that plan after her attorney
filed an administrative complaint. By 1996, E. W.'s treating
psychiatrist concluded that she could be treated appropriately in a community-based setting. She nonetheless remained institutionalized until a few months after the District
Court issued its judgment in this case in 1997.
In May 1995, when she was still institutionalized at
GRH, L. C. filed suit in the United States District Court
for the Northern District of Georgia, challenging her continued confinement in a segregated environment. Her complaint invoked 42 U. S. C. § 1983 and provisions of the ADA,
§§ 12131-12134, and named as defendants, now petitioners,
the Commissioner of the Georgia Department of Human
Resources, the Superintendent of GRH, and the Executive
Director of the Fulton County Regional Board (collectively,

OLMSTEAD v. L. C.
Opinion of the Court

the State). L. C. alleged that the State's failure to place
her in a community-based program, once her treating professionals determined that such placement was appropriate,
violated, inter alia,Title II of the ADA. L. C.'s pleading
requested, among other things, that the State place her in a
community care residential program, and that she receive
treatment with the ultimate goal of integrating her into
the mainstream of society. E. W. intervened in the action,
6
stating an identical claim.
The District Court granted partial summary judgment in
favor of L. C. and E. W. See App. to Pet. for Cert. 31a-42a.
The court held that the State's failure to place L. C. and
E. W. in an appropriate community-based treatment program
violated Title II of the ADA. See id., at 39a, 41a. In so
ruling, the court rejected the State's argument that inadequate funding, not discrimination against L. C. and E. W. "by
reason of" their disabilities, accounted for their retention at
GRH. Under Title II, the court concluded, "unnecessary institutional segregation of the disabled constitutes discrimination per se, which cannot be justified by a lack of funding."
Id., at 37a.
In addition to contending that L. C. and E. W. had not
shown discrimination "by reason of [their] disabilit[ies]," the
State resisted court intervention on the ground that requiring immediate transfers in cases of this order would "fundamentally alter" the State's activity. The State reasserted
that it was already using all available funds to provide services to other persons with disabilities. See id., at 38a. Re6L. C. and E. W. are currently receiving treatment in community-based

programs. Nevertheless, the case is not moot. As the District Court
and Court of Appeals explained, in view of the multiple institutional placements L. C. and E. W. have experienced, the controversy they brought to
court is "capable of repetition, yet evading review." No. 1:95-cv-1210MHS (ND Ga., Mar. 26, 1997), p. 6, App. to Pet. for Cert. 85a (internal
quotation marks omitted); see 138 F. 3d 893, 895, n. 2 (CAll 1998) (citing
Honig v. Doe, 484 U. S. 305, 318-323 (1988), and Vitek v. Jones, 445 U. S.
480, 486-487 (1980)).

Cite as: 527 U. S. 581 (1999)
Opinion of the Court

jecting the State's "fundamental alteration" defense, the
court observed that existing state programs provided
community-based treatment of the kind for which L. C. and
E. W. qualified, and that the State could "provide services to
plaintiffs in the community at considerably less cost than is
required to maintain them in an institution." Id., at 39a.
The Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit affirmed
the judgment of the District Court, but remanded for reassessment of the State's cost-based defense. See 138 F. 3d, at
905. As the appeals court read the statute and regulations:
When "a disabled individual's treating professionals find that
a community-based placement is appropriate for that individual, the ADA imposes a duty to provide treatment in a community setting-the most integrated setting appropriate to
that patient's needs"; "[w]here there is no such finding [by
the treating professionals], nothing in the ADA requires the
deinstitutionalization of th[e] patient." Id., at 902.
The Court of Appeals recognized that the State's duty to
provide integrated services "is not absolute"; under the Attorney General's Title II regulation, "reasonable modifications" were required of the State, but fundamental alterations were not demanded. Id., at 904. The appeals court
thought it clear, however, that "Congress wanted to permit
a cost defense only in the most limited of circumstances."
Id., at 902. In conclusion, the court stated that a cost justification would fail "[u]nless the State can prove that requiring it to [expend additional funds in order to provide L. C.
and E. W. with integrated services] would be so unreasonable
given the demands of the State's mental health budget that it
would fundamentally alter the service [the State] provides."
Id., at 905. Because it appeared that the District Court had
entirely ruled out a "lack of funding" justification, see App.
to Pet. for Cert. 37a, the appeals court remanded, repeating
that the District Court should consider, among other things,
"whether the additional expenditures necessary to treat
L. C. and E. W. in community-based care would be unreason-

OLMSTEAD v. L. C.

Opinion of the Court

able given the demands of the State's mental health budget."
138 F. 3d, at 905.7
We granted certiorari in view of the importance of the
question presented to the States and affected individuals.
See 525 U. S.1054 (1998).8
III
Endeavoring to carry out Congress' instruction to issue
regulations implementing Title II, the Attorney General,
in the integration and reasonable-modifications regulations,
see supra, at 591-592, made two key determinations. The
first concerned the scope of the ADA's discrimination proscription, 42 U. S. C. § 12132; the second concerned the obligation of the States to counter discrimination. As to the
first, the Attorney General concluded that unjustified placement or retention of persons in institutions, severely limiting
their exposure to the outside community, constitutes a form
of discrimination based on disability prohibited by Title II.
See 28 CFR § 35.130(d) (1998) ("A public entity shall administer services... in the most integrated setting appropriate
to the needs of qualified individuals with disabilities."); Brief
for United States as Amicus Curiae in Helen L. v. DiDario,
No. 94-1243 (CA3 1994), pp. 8, 15-16 (unnecessary segregation of persons with disabilities constitutes a form of
discrimination prohibited by the ADA and the integration
7

After this Court granted certiorari, the District Court issued a de-

cision on remand rejecting the State's fundamental-alteration defense.
See 1:95-cv-1210-MHS (ND Ga., Jan. 29, 1999), p. 1. The court concluded
that the annual cost to the State of providing community-based treatment
to L. C. and E. W. was not unreasonable in relation to the State's overall
mental health budget. See id., at 5. In reaching that judgment, the District Court first declared "irrelevant" the potential impact of its decision
beyond L. C. and E. W. 1:95-cv-1210-MHS (NDGa., Oct. 20, 1998), p. 3,
App. 177. The District Court's decision on remand is now pending appeal
before the Eleventh Circuit.
'Twenty-two States and the Territory of Guam joined a brief urging
that certiorari be granted. Ten of those States joined a brief in support
of petitioners on the merits.

Cite as: 527 U. S. 581 (1999)
Opinion of the Court

regulation). Regarding the States' obligation to avoid unjustified isolation of individuals with disabilities, the Attorney General provided that States could resist modifications
that "would fundamentally alter the nature of the service,
program, or activity." 28 CFR §35.130(b)(7) (1998).
The Court of Appeals essentially upheld the Attorney
General's construction of the ADA. As just recounted, see
supra, at 595-596, the appeals court ruled that the unjustified institutionalization of persons with mental disabilities
violated Title II; the court then remanded with instructions to measure the cost of caring for L. C. and E. W. in a
community-based facility against the State's mental health
budget.
We affirm the Court of Appeals' decision in substantial
part. Unjustified isolation, we hold, is properly regarded
as discrimination based on disability. But we recognize, as
well, the States' need to maintain a range of facilities for the
care and treatment of persons with diverse mental disabilities, and the States' obligation to administer services with
an even hand. Accordingly, we further hold that the Court
of Appeals' remand instruction was unduly restrictive. In
evaluating a State's fundamental-alteration defense, the District Court must consider, in view of the resources available
to the State, not only the cost of providing community-based
care to the litigants, but also the range of services the State
provides others with mental disabilities, and the State's obligation to mete out those services equitably.
A
We examine first whether, as the Eleventh Circuit held,
undue institutionalization qualifies as discrimination "by reason of ...disability." The Department of Justice has consistently advocated that it does.9 Because the Department
9See Brief for United States in Halderman v. PennhurstState School
and Hospital,Nos. 78-1490, 78-1564, 78-1602 (CA3 1978), p. 4 5 ("[Ilnstitutionalization result[ing] in separation of mentally retarded persons for no

OLMSTEAD v. L. C.
Opinion of the Court

is the agency directed by Congress to issue regulations implementing Title II, see supra, at 591-592, its views warrant
respect. We need not inquire whether the degree of deference described in Chevron U.S. A. Inc. v. NaturalResources
Defense Council, Inc., 467 U. S. 837, 844 (1984), is in order;
"[i]t is enough to observe that the well-reasoned views of the
agencies implementing a statute 'constitute a body of experience and informed judgment to which courts and litigants
may properly resort for guidance."' Bragdon v. Abbott, 524
U. S.624, 642 (1998) (quoting Skidmore v. Swift & Co., 323
U. S. 134, 139-140 (1944)).
The State argues that L. C. and E. W. encountered no discrimination "by reason of" their disabilities because they
were not denied community placement on account of those
disabilities. See Brief for Petitioners 20. Nor were they
subjected to "discrimination," the State contends, because
"'discrimination' necessarily requires uneven treatment of
similarly situated individuals," and L. C. and E. W. had identified no comparison class, i. e., no similarly situated individuals given preferential treatment. Id., at 21. We are satisfied that Congress had a more comprehensive view of the
concept of discrimination advanced in the ADA.' 0
permissible reason... is 'discrimination,' and a violation of Section 504
[of the Rehabilitation Act] if it is supported by federal funds."); Brief for
United States in Haldermanv. PennhurstState School and Hospital,Nos.
78-1490, 78-1564, 78-1602 (CA3 1981), p. 27 ('Pennsylvania violates Section 504 by indiscriminately subjecting handicapped persons to [an institution] without first making an individual reasoned professional judgment
as to the appropriate placement for each such person among all available
alternatives."); Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae in Helen L. v.
DiDario,No. 94-1243 (CA3 1994), p. 7 ("Both the Section 504 coordination
regulations and the rest of the ADA make clear that the unnecessary segregation of individuals with disabilities in the provision of public services
is itself a form of discrimination within the meaning of those statutes.");
id., at 8-16.
1°The dissent is driven by the notion that "this Court has never endorsed an interpretation of the term 'discrimination' that encompassed
disparate treatment among members of the same protected class," post,
at 616 (opinion of THomAs, J.), that "[o]ur decisions construing various

Cite as: 527 U. S. 581 (1999)
Opinion of the Court

The ADA stepped up earlier measures to secure opportunities for people with developmental disabilities to enjoy
the benefits of community living. The Developmentally
Disabled Assistance and Bill of Rights Act, a 1975 measure, stated in aspirational terms that "[t]he treatment, services, and habilitation for a person with developmental disabilities ... should be provided in the setting that is least

restrictive of the person's personal liberty." 89 Stat. 502,
42 U. S. C. § 6010(2) (1976 ed.) (emphasis added); see also
Pennhurst State School and Hospital v. Halderman, 451
U. S. 1, 24 (1981) (concluding that the §6010 provisions "were
intended to be hortatory, not mandatory"). In a related legislative endeavor, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Congress
used mandatory language to proscribe discrimination against
persons with disabilities. See 87 Stat. 394, as amended, 29
U. S. C. §794 (1976 ed.) ("No otherwise qualified individual
with a disability in the United States . . . shall, solely by
reason of her or his disability, be excluded from the participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving Federal fistatutory prohibitions against 'discrimination' have not wavered from this
path," post, at 616, and that "a plaintiff cannot prove 'discrimination' by
demonstrating that one member of a particular protected group has been
favored over another member of that same group," post, at 618. The dissent is incorrect as a matter of precedent and logic. See O'Connor v.
Consolidated Coin CaterersCorp., 517 U. S. 308, 312 (1996) (The Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 "does not ban discrimination
against employees because they are aged 40 or older, it bans discrimination against employees because of their age, but limits the protected class
to those who are 40 or older. The fact that one person in the protected
class has lost out to another person in the protected class is thus irrelevant, so long as he has lost out because of his age."); cf Oncale v. Sundowner Offshore Services, Inc., 523 U. S. 75, 76 (1998) ("[llorkplace harassment can violate Title VIIs prohibition against 'discriminat[ion]...
because of. . . sex,' 42 U. S. C. § 2000e-2(a)(1), when the harasser and
the harassed employee are of the same sex."); Jefferies v. HarrisCounty
Community Action Assn., 615 F. 2d 1025, 1032 (CA5 1980) ("[D]iscrimination against black females can exist even in the absence of discrimination
against black men or white women.").

OLMSTEAD v. L. C.
Opinion of the Court

nancial assistance." (Emphasis added.)) Ultimately, in the
ADA, enacted in 1990, Congress not only required all public
entities to refrain from discrimination, see 42 U. S. C. § 12132;
additionally, in findings applicable to the entire statute, Congress explicitly identified unjustified "segregation" of persons with disabilities as a "for[m] of discrimination." See
§ 12101(a)(2) ("historically, society has tended to isolate and
segregate individuals with disabilities, and, despite some improvements, such forms of discrimination against individuals
with disabilities continue to be a serious and pervasive social
problem"); § 12101(a)(5) ("individuals with disabilities continually encounter various forms of discrimination, including.., segregation").
Recognition that unjustified institutional isolation of persons with disabilities is a form of discrimination reflects two
evident judgments. First, institutional placement of persons who can handle and benefit from community settings
perpetuates unwarranted assumptions that persons so isolated are incapable or unworthy of participating in community life. Cf. Allen v. Wright, 468 U. S. 737, 755 (1984)
("There can be no doubt that [stigmatizing injury often
caused by racial discrimination] is one of the most serious
consequences of discriminatory government action."); Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power v. Manhart, 435 U. S.702,
707, n. 13 (1978) ("'In forbidding employers to discriminate
against individuals because of their sex, Congress intended
to strike at the entire spectrum of disparate treatment of
men and women resulting from sex stereotypes."' (quoting
Sprogis v. United Air Lines, Inc., 444 F. 2d 1194, 1198 (CA7
"1Unlike the ADA, § 504 of the Rehabilitation Act contains no express

recognition that isolation or segregation of persons with disabilities is a
form of discrimination. Section 504's discrimination proscription, a single
sentence attached to vocational rehabilitation legislation, has yielded di-

vergent court interpretations. See Brief for United States as Amicus
Curiae23-25.

Cite as: 527 U. S. 581 (1999)
Opinion of the Court

1971)). Second, confinement in an institution severely diminishes the everyday life activities of individuals, including
family relations, social contacts, work options, economic independence, educational advancement, and cultural enrichment. See Brief for American Psychiatric Association et al.
as Amici Curiae 20-22. Dissimilar treatment correspondingly exists in this key respect: In order to receive needed
medical services, persons with mental disabilities must, because of those disabilities, relinquish participation in community life they could enjoy given reasonable accommodations, while persons without mental disabilities can receive
the medical services they need without similar sacrifice.
See Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 6-7, 17.
The State urges that, whatever Congress may have stated
as its findings in the ADA, the Medicaid statute "reflected
a congressional policy preference for treatment in the institution over treatment in the community." Brief for Petitioners 31. The State correctly used the past tense. Since
1981, Medicaid has provided funding for state-run home
and community-based care through a waiver program. See
95 Stat. 812-813, as amended, 42 U. S. C. § 1396n(c); Brief
for United States as Amicus Curiae 20-21.2 Indeed, the
United States points out that the Department of Health and
Human Services (HHS) "has a policy of encouraging States
to take advantage of the waiver program, and often approves
more waiver slots than a State ultimately uses." Id., at
25-26 (further observing that, by 1996, "HHS approved up
to 2109 waiver slots for Georgia, but Georgia used only 700").
We emphasize that nothing in the ADA or its implementing regulations condones termination of institutional settings for persons unable to handle or benefit from community
'2 The waiver program provides Medicaid reimbursement to States for
the provision of community-based services to individuals who would otherwise require institutional care, upon a showing that the average annual
cost of such services is not more than the annual cost of institutional services. See §1396n(c).

OLMSTEAD v. L. C.
Opinion of the Court

settings. Title II provides only that "qualified individual[s]
with a disability" may not "be subjected to discrimination."
42 U. S. C. § 12132. "Qualified individuals," the ADA further explains, are persons with disabilities who, "with or
without reasonable modifications to rules, policies, or practices, . . .mee[t] the essential eligibility requirements for
the receipt of services or the participation in programs or
activities provided by a public entity." § 12131(2).
Consistent with these provisions, the State generally may
rely on the reasonable assessments of its own professionals
in determining whether an individual "meets the essential
eligibility requirements" for habilitation in a communitybased program. Absent such qualification, it would be inappropriate to remove a patient from the more restrictive
setting. See 28 CFR §35.130(d) (1998) (public entity shall
administer services and programs in "the most integrated
setting appropriateto the needs of qualified individuals with
disabilities" (emphasis added)); cf. School Bd. of Nassau Cty.
v. Arline, 480 U. S.273, 288 (1987) ("[C]ourts normally should
defer to the reasonable medical judgments of public health
officials.").' 3 Nor is there any federal requirement that
community-based treatment be imposed on patients who do
not desire it. See 28 CFR §35.130(e)(1) (1998) ("Nothing
in this part shall be construed to require an individual with
a disability to accept an accommodation ... which such individual chooses not to accept."); 28 CFR pt. 35, App. A,
p. 450 (1998) ("[P]ersons with disabilities must be provided
the option of declining to accept a particular accommodation."). In this case, however, there is no genuine dispute
concerning the status of L. C. and E. W. as individuals "quali18 Georgia law also expresses a preference for treatment in the most
integrated setting appropriate. See Ga. Code Ann. § 37-4-121 (1995)
("It is the policy of the state that the least restrictive alternative placement be secured for every client at every stage of his habilitation. It
shall be the duty of the facility to assist the client in securing placement
in noninstitutional community facilities and programs.").

Cite as: 527 U. S. 581 (1999)
Opinion of GiNSBUuG, J.

fled" for noninstitutional care: The State's own professionals
determined that community-based treatment would be appropriate for L. C. and E. W., and neither woman opposed
such treatment. See supra, at 593.14
B
The State's responsibility, once it provides communitybased treatment to qualified persons with disabilities, is not
boundless. The reasonable-modifications regulation speaks
of "reasonable modifications" to avoid discrimination, and
allows States to resist modifications that entail a "fundamenta[l] alter[ation]" of the States' services and programs.
28 CFR §35.130(b)(7) (1998). The Court of Appeals construed this regulation to permit a cost-based defense "only
in the most limited of circumstances," 138 F. 3d, at 902, and
remanded to the District Court to consider, among other
things, "whether the additional expenditures necessary to
treat L. C. and E. W. in community-based care would be
unreasonable given the demands of the State's mental health
budget," id., at 905.
The Court of Appeals' construction of the reasonablemodifications regulation is unacceptable for it would leave
the State virtually defenseless once it is shown that the plaintiff is qualified for the service or program she seeks. If the
expense entailed in placing one or two people in a communitybased treatment program is properly measured for reasonableness against the State's entire mental health budget, it is
unlikely that a State, relying on the fundamental-alteration
defense, could ever prevail. See Tr. of Oral Arg. 27 (State's
attorney argues that Court of Appeals' understanding of the
14

We do not in this opinion hold that the ADA imposes on the States a
"standard of care" for whatever medical services they render, or that the
ADA requires States to "provide a certain level of benefits to individuals
with disabilities." Cf post, at 623, 624 (THoMAs, J., dissenting). We do
hold, however, that States must adhere to the ADA's nondiscrimination
requirement with regard to the services they in fact provide.

OLMSTEAD v. L. C.
Opinion of GINSBURG, J.

fundamental-alteration defense, as expressed in its order to
the District Court, "will always preclude the State from a
meaningful defense"); cf. Brief for Petitioners 37-38 (Court
of Appeals' remand order "mistakenly asks the district court
to examine [the fundamental-alteration] defense based on
the cost of providing community care to just two individuals,
not all Georgia citizens who desire community care"); 1:95cv-1210-MHS (ND Ga., Oct. 20, 1998), p. 3, App. 177 (District Court, on remand, declares the impact of its decision
beyond L. C. and E. W. "irrelevant"). Sensibly construed,
the fundamental-alteration component of the reasonablemodifications regulation would allow the State to show
that, in the allocation of available resources, immediate relief for the plaintiffs would be inequitable, given the responsibility the State has undertaken for the care and treatment
of a large and diverse population of persons with mental
disabilities.
When it granted summary judgment for plaintiffs in this
case, the District Court compared the cost of caring for the
plaintiffs in a community-based setting with the cost of
caring for them in an institution. That simple comparison
showed that community placements cost less than institutional confinements. See App. to Pet. for Cert. 39a. As the
United States recognizes, however, a comparison so simple
overlooks costs the State cannot avoid; most notably, a
"State . . . may experience increased overall expenses by
funding community placements without being able to take
advantage of the savings associated with the closure of institutions." Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 21.15
As already observed, see supra, at 601-602, the ADA is
not reasonably read to impel States to phase out institutions,
placing patients in need of close care at risk. Cf post, at
15 Even if States eventually were able to close some institutions in response to an increase in the number of community placements, the States
would still incur the cost of running partially full institutions in the interim. See Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 21.

Cite as: 527 U. S. 581 (1999)

Opinion of GINSBURG, J.

610 (KENNEDY, J., concurring in judgment). Nor is it the
ADA's mission to drive States to move institutionalized
patients into an inappropriate setting, such as a homeless
shelter, a placement the State proposed, then retracted, for
E. W. See supra,at 593. Some individuals, like L. C. and
E. W. in prior years, may need institutional care from time
to time "to stabilize acute psychiatric symptoms." App. 98
(affidavit of Dr. Richard L. Elliott); see 138 F. 3d, at 903
("[T]here may be times [when] a patient can be treated in
the community, and others whe[n] an institutional placement
is necessary."); Reply Brief 19 (placement in a communitybased treatment program does not mean the State will no
longer need to retain hospital accommodations for the person
so placed). For other individuals, no placement outside the
institution may ever be appropriate. See Brief for American Psychiatric Association et al. as Amici Curiae 22-23
("Some individuals, whether mentally retarded or mentally
ill, are not prepared at particular times-perhaps in the
short run, perhaps in the long run-for the risks and exposure of the less protective environment of community settings"; for these persons, "institutional settings are needed
and must remain available."); Brief for Voice of the Retarded
et al. as Amici Curiae 11 ("Each disabled person is entitled
to treatment in the most integrated setting possible for that
person-recognizing that, on a case-by-case basis, that setting may be in an institution."); Youngberg v. Romeo, 457
U. S. 307, 327 (1982) (Blackmun, J., concurring) ("For many
mentally retarded people, the difference between the capacity to do things for themselves within an institution and total
dependence on the institution for all of their needs is as much
liberty as they ever will know.").
To maintain a range of facilities and to administer services
with an even hand, the State must have more leeway than
the courts below understood the fundamental-alteration defense to allow. If, for example, the State were to demonstrate that it had a comprehensive, effectively working plan

OLMSTEAD v. L. C.

Opinion of GINSBURG, J.

for placing qualified persons with mental disabilities in less
restrictive settings, and a waiting list that moved at a reasonable pace not controlled by the State's endeavors to keep
its institutions fully populated, the reasonable-modifications
standard would be met. See Tr. of Oral Arg. 5 (State's attorney urges that, "by asking [a] person to wait a short time
until a community bed is available, Georgia does not exclude
[that] person by reason of disability, neither does Georgia
discriminate against her by reason of disability"); see also
id., at 25 ("[I]t is reasonable for the State to ask someone to
wait until a community placement is available."). In such
circumstances, a court would have no warrant effectively to
order displacement of persons at the top of the communitybased treatment waiting list by individuals lower down who
16
commenced civil actions.
1

6We reject the Court of Appeals' construction of the reasonablemodifications regulation for another reason. The Attorney General's Title
II regulations, Congress ordered, "shall be consistent with" the regulations in part 41 of Title 28 of the Code of Federal Regulations implementing §504 of the Rehabilitation Act. 42 U. S. C. § 12184(b). The §504
regulation upon which the reasonable-modifications regulation is based
provides now, as it did at the time the ADA was enacted:
"A recipient shall make reasonable accommodation to the known physical or mental limitations of an otherwise qualified handicapped applicant
or employee unless the recipient can demonstrate that the accommodation would impose an undue hardship on the operation of its program."
28 CFR §41.53 (1990 and 1998 eds.).
While the part 41 regulations do not define "undue hardship," other
§504 regulations make clear that the "undue hardship" inquiry requires
not simply an assessment of the cost of the accommodation in relation to
the recipient's overall budget, but a "case-by-case analysis weighing factors that include: (1) [t]he overall size of the recipient's program with
respect to number of employees, number and type of facilities, and size
of budget; (2) [t]he type of the recipient's operation, including the composition and structure of the recipient's workforce; and (3) [tlhe nature
and cost of the accommodation needed." 28 CFR §42.511(c) (1998); see
45 CFR §84.12(c) (1998) (same).
Under the Court of Appeals' restrictive reading, the reasonablemodifications regulation would impose a standard substantially more

Cite as: 527 U. S. 581 (1999)
Opinion of

STEVENS,

J.

For the reasons stated, we conclude that, under Title II
of the ADA, States are required to provide communitybased treatment for persons with mental disabilities when
the State's treatment professionals determine that such
placement is appropriate, the affected persons do not oppose such treatment, and the placement can be reasonably
accommodated, taking into account the resources available
to the State and the needs of others with mental disabilities.
The judgment of the Eleventh Circuit is therefore affirmed
in part and vacated in part, and the case is remanded for
further proceedings.
It is so ordered.
JUSTICE STEVENS,

concurring in part and concurring in

the judgment.
Unjustified disparate treatment, in this case, "unjustified
institutional isolation," constitutes discrimination under the
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990. See ante, at 600.
If a plaintiff requests relief that requires modification of
a State's services or programs, the State may assert, as an
affirmative defense, that the requested modification would
cause a fundamental alteration of a State's services and
programs. In this case, the Court of Appeals appropriately remanded for consideration of the State's affirmative
defense. On remand, the District Court rejected the State's
"fundamental-alteration defense." See ante, at 596, n. 7.
If the District Court was wrong in concluding that costs
unrelated to the treatment of L. C. and E. W. do not support such a defense in this case, that arguable error should
be corrected either by the Court of Appeals or by this Court
in review of that decision. In my opinion, therefore, we
should simply affirm the judgment of the Court of Appeals.
difficult for the State to meet than the "undue burden" standard imposed
by the corresponding §504 regulation.

OLMSTEAD v. L. C.
KENNEDY,

J., concurring in judgment

But because there are not five votes for that disposition,
I join the Court's judgment and Parts I, II, and III-A of
its opinion. Cf. Bragdon v. Abbott, 524 U. S. 624, 655-656
(1998) (STEVENS, J., concurring); Screws v. United States, 325
U. S. 91, 134 (1945) (Rutledge, J., concurring in result).
JUSTICE KENNEDY, with whom JUSTICE BREYER joins as
to Part I, concurring in the judgment.

I
Despite remarkable advances and achievements by medical science, and agreement among many professionals that
even severe mental illness is often treatable, the extent of
public resources to devote to this cause remains controversial. Knowledgeable professionals tell us that our society, and the governments which reflect its attitudes and
preferences, have yet to grasp the potential for treating
mental disorderg especially severe mental illness. As a result, necessary resources for the endeavor often are not
forthcoming. During the course of a year, about 5.6 million,
Americans will suffer from severe mental illness. E. Torrey, Out of the Shadows 4 (1997). Some 2.2 million of these
persons receive no treatinent. Id., at 6. Millions of other
Americans suffer from mental disabilities of less serious
degree, such as mild depression. These facts are part of the
background against which this case arises. In addition, of
course, persons with mental disabilities have been subject to
historic mistreatment, indifference, and hostility. See, e. g.,
Cleburne v. Cleburne Living Center,Inc., 473 U. S. 432, 461464 (1985) (Marshall, J., concurring in judgment in part and
dissenting in part) (discussing treatment of the mentally
retarded).
Despite these obstacles, the States have acknowledged
that the care of the mentally disabled is their special obligation. They operate and support facilities and programs,
sometimes elaborate ones, to provide care. It is a continu-

Cite as: 527 U. S. 581 (1999)
KENNEDY, J.,

concurring in judgment

ing challenge, though, to provide the care in an effective
and humane way, particularly because societal attitudes and
the responses of public authorities have changed from time
to time.
Beginning in the 1950's, many victims of severe mental
illness were moved out of state-run hospitals, often with
benign objectives. According to one estimate, when adjusted for population growth, "the actual decrease in the
numbers of people with severe mental illnesses in public
psychiatric hospitals between 1955 and 1994 was 92 percent." Brief for American Psychiatric Association et al.
as Amici Curiae21, n. 5 (citing Torrey, supra, at 8-9). This
was not without benefit or justification. The so-called "deinstitutionalization" has permitted a substantial number of
mentally disabled persons to receive needed treatment with
greater freedom and dignity. It may be, moreover, that
those who remain institutionalized are indeed the most severe cases. With reference to this case, as the Court points
out, ante, at 593, 603, it is undisputed that the State's own
treating professionals determined that community-based
care was medically appropriate for respondents. Nevertheless, the depopulation of state mental hospitals has its dark
side. According to one expert:
"For a substantial minority . . . deinstitutionaliza-

tion has been a psychiatric Titanic. Their lives are
virtually devoid of 'dignity' or 'integrity of body, mind,
and spirit.' 'Self-determination' often means merely
that the person has a choice of soup kitchens. The
'least restrictive setting' frequently turns out to be a
cardboard box, a jail cell, or a terror-filled existence
plagued by both real and imaginary enemies." Torrey,
supra, at 11.
It must be remembered that for the person with severe mental illness who has no treatment the most dreaded of confinements can be the imprisonment inflicted by his own mind,

OLMSTEAD v. L. C.
KENNEDY,

J., concurring in judgment

which shuts reality out and subjects him to the torment of
voices and images beyond our own powers to describe.
It would be unreasonable, it would be a tragic event, then,
were the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA) to
be interpreted so that States had some incentive, for fear
of litigation, to drive those in need of medical care and treatment out of appropriate care and into settings with too little
assistance and supervision. The opinion of a responsible
treating physician in determining the appropriate conditions for treatment ought to be given the greatest of deference. It is a common phenomenon that a patient functions well with medication, yet, because of the mental illness
itself, lacks the discipline or capacity to follow the regime
the medication requires. This is illustrative of the factors
a responsible physician will consider in recommending the
appropriate setting or facility for treatment. JUSTICE GINSBURG'S opinion takes account of this background. It is careful, and quite correct, to say that it is not "the ADA's mission to drive States to move institutionalized patients into
an inappropriate setting, such as a homeless shelter ...
Ante, at 605.
In light of these concerns, if the principle of liability
announced by the Court is not applied with caution and
circumspection, States may be pressured into attempting
compliance on the cheap, placing marginal patients into
integrated settings devoid of the services and attention
necessary for their condition. This danger is in addition to
the federalism costs inherent in referring state decisions
regarding the administration of treatment programs and
the allocation of resources to the reviewing authority of
the federal courts. It is of central importance, then, that
courts apply today's decision with great deference to the
medical decisions of the responsible, treating physicians
and, as the Court makes clear, with appropriate deference
to the program funding decisions of state policymakers.

Cite as: 527 U. S. 581 (1999)
KENNEDY,

J., concurring in judgment

II

With these reservations made explicit, in my view we
must remand the case for a determination of the questions
the Court poses and for a determination whether respondents can show a violation of 42 U. S. C. § 12132's ban on discrimination based on the summary judgment materials on
fie or any further pleadings and materials properly allowed.
At the outset it should be noted there is no allegation
that Georgia officials acted on the basis of animus or unfair
stereotypes regarding the disabled. Underlying much discrimination law is the notion that animus can lead to false
and unjustified stereotypes, and vice versa. Of course, the
line between animus and stereotype is often indistinct,
and it is not always necessary to distinguish between them.
Section 12132 can be understood to deem as irrational, and
so to prohibit, distinctions by which a class of disabled
persons, or some within that class, are, by reason of their
disability and without adequate justification, exposed by a
state entity to more onerous treatment than a comparison
group in the provision of services or the administration of
existing programs, or indeed entirely excluded from state
programs or facilities. Discrimination under this statute
might in principle be shown in the case before us, though
further proceedings should be required.
Putting aside issues of animus or unfair stereotype, I agree
with JUSTICE THOMAS that on the ordinary interpretation

and meaning of the term, one who alleges discrimination
must show that she "received differential treatment vis-A-vis
members of a different group on the basis of a statutorily
described characteristic." Post, at 616 (dissenting opinion).
In my view, however, discrimination so defined might be
shown here. Although the Court seems to reject JUSTICE
THOMAS' definition of discrimination, ante, at 598, it asserts
that unnecessary institutional care does lead to "[d]issimilar
treatment," ante, at 601. According to the Court, "[i]n order
to receive needed medical services, persons with mental dis-

OLMSTEAD v. L. C.
KENNEDY, J.,

concurring in judgment

abilities must, because of those disabilities, relinquish participation in community life they could enjoy given reasonable
accommodations, while persons without mental disabilities
can receive the medical services they need without similar
sacrifice." Ibid.
Although this point is not discussed at length by the Court,
it does serve to suggest the theory under which respondents
might be subject to discrimination in violation of § 12132. If
they could show that persons needing psychiatric or other
medical services to treat a mental disability are subject to a
more onerous condition than are persons eligible for other
existing state medical services, and if removal of the condition would not be a fundamental alteration of a program
or require the creation of a new one, then the beginnings of
a discrimination case would be established. In terms more
specific to this case, if respondents could show that Georgia
(i) provides treatment to individuals suffering from medical
problems of comparable seriousness, (ii) as a general matter,
does so in the most integrated setting appropriate for the
treatment of those problems (taking medical and other practical considerations into account), but (iii) without adequate
justification, fails to do so for a group of mentally disabled
persons (treating them instead in separate, locked institutional facilities), I believe it would demonstrate discrimination on the basis of mental disability.
Of course, it is a quite different matter to say that a State
without a program in place is required to create one. No
State has unlimited resources, and each must make hard decisions on how much to allocate to treatment of diseases
and disabilities. If, for example, funds for care and treatment of the mentally ill, including the severely mentally ill,
are reduced in order to support programs directed to the
treatment and care of other disabilities, the decision may be
unfortunate. The judgment, however, is a political one and
not within the reach of the statute. Grave constitutional
concerns are raised when a federal court is given the author-

Cite as: 527 U. S. 581 (1999)
KENNEDY, J.,

concurring in judgment

ity to review the State's choices in basic matters such as
establishing or declining to establish new programs. It is
not reasonable to read the ADA to permit court intervention
in these decisions. In addition, as the Court notes, ante,
at 592, by regulation a public entity is required only to make
"reasonable modifications in policies, practices, or procedures" when necessary to avoid discrimination and is not
even required to make those if "the modifications would
fundamentally alter the nature of the service, program, or
activity." 28 CFR §35.130(b)(7) (1998). It follows that a
State may not be forced to create a community-treatment
program where none exists. See Brief for United States
as Amicus Curiae 19-20, and n. 3. Whether a different
statutory scheme would exceed constitutional limits need
not be addressed.
Discrimination, of course, tends to be an expansive concept and, as legal category, it must be applied with care and
prudence. On any reasonable reading of the statute, § 12132
cannot cover all types of differential treatment of disabled
and nondisabled persons, no matter how minimal or innocuous. To establish discrimination in the context of this
case, and absent a showing of policies motivated by improper
animus or stereotypes, it would be necessary to show that a
comparable or similarly situated group received differential
treatment. Regulations are an important tool in identifying the kinds of contexts, policies, and practices that raise
concerns under the ADA. The congressional findings in 42
U. S. C. § 12101 also serve as a useful aid for courts to discern
the sorts of discrimination with which Congress was concerned. Indeed, those findings have clear bearing on the
issues raised in this case, and support the conclusion that
unnecessary institutionalization may be the evidence or the
result of the discrimination the ADA prohibits.
Unlike JUsTIcE THOMAS, I deem it relevant and instructive that Congress in express terms identified the "isolat[ion]
and segregat[ion]" of disabled persons by society as a "for[m]

OLMSTEAD v. L. C.
KENNEDY,

J., concurring in judgment

of discrimination," §§ 12101(a)(2), (5), and noted that discrimination against the disabled "persists in such critical areas
as... institutionalization," § 12101(a)(3). These findings do
not show that segregation and institutionalization are always
discriminatory or that segregation or institutionalization are,
by their nature, forms of prohibited discrimination. Nor do
they necessitate a regime in which individual treatment
plans are required, as distinguished from broad and reasonable classifications for the provision of health care services.
Instead, they underscore Congress' concern that discrimination has been a frequent and pervasive problem in institutional settings and policies and its concern that segregating
disabled persons from others can be discriminatory. Both of
those concerns are consistent with the normal definition of
discrimination-differential treatment of similarly situated
groups. The findings inform application of that definition
in specific cases, but absent guidance to the contrary, there
is no reason to think they displace it. The issue whether
respondents have been discriminated against under § 12132
by institutionalized treatment cannot be decided in the abstract, divorced from the facts surrounding treatment programs in their State.
The possibility therefore remains that, on the facts of this
case, respondents would be able to support a claim under
§ 12132 by showing that they have been subject to discrimination by Georgia officials on the basis of their disability.
This inquiry would not be simple. Comparisons of different medical conditions and the corresponding treatment
regimens might be difficult, as would be assessments of
the degree of integration of various settings in which medical treatment is offered. For example, the evidence might
show that, apart from services for the mentally disabled,
medical treatment is rarely offered in a community setting
but also is rarely offered in facilities comparable to state
mental hospitals. Determining the relevance of that type
of evidence would require considerable judgment and anal-

Cite as: 527 U. S. 581 (1999)
THOMAS, J., dissenting

ysis. However, as petitioners observe, "[i]n this case, no
class of similarly situated individuals was even identified,
let alone shown to be given preferential treatment." Brief
for Petitioners 21. Without additional information regarding the details of state-provided medical services in Georgia,
we cannot address the issue in the way the statute demands.
As a consequence, the judgment of the courts below, granting partial summary judgment to respondents, ought not to
be sustained. In addition, as JUSTICE GINSBURG'S opinion
is careful to note, ante, at 604, it was error in the earlier proceedings to restrict the relevance and force of the State's evidence regarding the comparative costs of treatment. The
State is entitled to wide discretion in adopting its own systems of cost analysis, and, if it chooses, to allocate health care
resources based on fixed and overhead costs for whole institutions and programs. We must be cautious when we seek
to infer specific rules limiting States' choices when Congress
has used only general language in the controlling statute.
I would remand the case to the Court of Appeals or the District Court for it to determine in the first instance whether a
statutory violation is sufficiently alleged and supported in respondents' summary judgment materials and, if not, whether
they should be given leave to replead and to introduce evidence and argument along the lines suggested above.
For these reasons, I concur in the judgment of the Court.
with whom THE CHIEF JUSTICE and
join, dissenting.
Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990
(ADA), 104 Stat. 337, as set forth in 42 U. S. C. § 12132,
provides:
JUSTICE THOMAS,

JUSTICE SCALIA

"Subject to the provisions of this subchapter, no qualified individual with a disability shall, by reason of such
disability,be excluded from participation in or be denied the benefits of the services, programs, or activities

OLMSTEAD v. L. C.
THOMAS,

J., dissenting

of a public entity, or be subjected to discriminationby
any such entity." (Emphasis added.)
The majority concludes that petitioners "discriminated"
against respondents-as a matter of law-by continuing to
treat them in an institutional setting after they became
eligible for community placement. I disagree. Temporary
exclusion from community placement does not amount to
"discrimination" in the traditional sense of the word, nor
have respondents shown that petitioners "discriminated"
against them "by reason of" their disabilities.
Until today, this Court has never endorsed an interpretation of the term "discrimination" that encompassed disparate treatment among members of the same protected
class. Discrimination, as typically understood, requires a
showing that a claimant received differential treatment visA-vis members of a different group on the basis of a statutorily described characteristic. This interpretation comports with dictionary definitions of the term discrimination,
which means to "distinguish," to "differentiate," or to make
a "distinction in favor of or against, a person or thing based
on the group, class, or category to which that person or thing
belongs rather than on individual merit." Random House
Dictionary 564 (2d ed. 1987); see also Webster's Third New
International Dictionary 648 (1981) (defining "discrimination" as "the making or perceiving of a distinction or difference" or as "the act, practice, or an instance of discriminating
categorically rather than individually").
Our decisions construing various statutory prohibitions
against "discrimination" have not wavered from this path.
The best place to begin is with Title VII of the Civil Rights
Act of 1964, 78 Stat. 253, as amended, the paradigmatic antidiscrimination law.' Title VII makes it "an unlawful em'We have incorporated Title VII standards of discrimination when interpreting statutes prohibiting other forms of discrimination. For example, Rev. Stat. § 1977, as amended, 42 U. S. C. '§1981, has been interpreted to forbid all racial discrimination in the making of private and

Cite as: 527 U. S. 581 (1999)
THOMAS, J., dissenting

ployment practice for an employer . . . to discriminate
against any individual with respect to his compensation,
terms, conditions, or privileges of employment, because of
such individual's race, color, religion, sex, or national origin."
42 U. S. C. § 2000e-2(a)(1) (emphasis added). We have explained that this language is designed "to achieve equality
of employment opportunities and remove barriers that have
operated in the past to favor an identifiable group of white
employees over other employees." Griggs v. Duke Power
Co., 401 U. S. 424, 429-430 (1971).2
Under Title VII, a finding of discrimination requires a
comparison of otherwise similarly situated persons who are
in different groups by reason of certain characteristics provided by statute. See, e. g., Newport News Shipbuilding
& Dry Dock Co. v. EEOC,462 U. S. 669, 683 (1983) (explainpublic contracts. See Saint Francis College v. AI-Khazraji, 481 U. S.
604, 609 (1987). This Court has applied the "framework" developed in
Title VII cases to claims brought under this statute. Patterson v. McLean Credit Union, 491 U. S.164, 186 (1989). Also, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, 81 Stat. 602, as amended, 29 U. S. C.
§623(a)(1), prohibits discrimination on the basis of an employee's age.
This Court has noted that its "interpretation of Title VII ... applies
with equal force in the context of age discrimination, for the substantive
provisions of the ADEA 'were derived in haec verba from Title VII.'"
Trans World Airlines, Inc. v. Thurston, 469 U. S. 111, 121 (1985) (quoting
Lorillardv. Pons, 484 U. S. 575, 584 (1978)). This Court has also looked
to its Title VII interpretations of discrimination in illuminating Title IX
of the Education Amendments of 1972,86 Stat. 373, as amended, 20 U. S. C.
§ 1681 et seq., which prohibits discrimination under any federally funded
education program or activity. See Franklinv. Gwinnett County Public
Schools, 503 U. S.60, 75 (1992) (relying on Meritor Savings Bank, FSB v.
Vinson, 477 U. S.57 (1986), a Title VII case, in determining that sexual
constitutes discrimination).
harassment
2
This Court has recognized that two forms of discrimination are prohibited under Title VII: disparate treatment and disparate impact. See
Griggs, 401 U. S., at 431 ("The Act proscribes not only overt discrimination
but also practices that are fair in form, but discriminatory in operation").
Both forms of "discrimination" require a comparison among classes of
employees.

OLMSTEAD v. L. C.
THomAS, J., dissenting

ing that Title VII discrimination occurs when an employee
is treated "'in a manner which but for that person's sex
would be different' ") (quoting Los Angeles Dept. of Water
and Power v. Manhart, 435 U. S. 702, 711 (1978)). For this
reason, we have described as "nonsensical" the comparison of the racial composition of different classes of job categories in determining whether there existed disparate impact discrimination with respect to a particular job category.
Wards Cove Packing Co. v. Atonio, 490 U. S. 642, 651 (1989).3
Courts interpreting Title VII have held that a plaintiff cannot prove "discrimination" by demonstrating that one member of a particular protected group has been favored over
another member of that same group. See, e.g., Bush v.
Commonwealth Edison Co., 990 F. 2d 928, 931 (CA7 1993),
cert. denied, 511 U. S. 1071 (1994) (explaining that under
Title VII, a fired black employee "had to show that although
he was not a good employee, equally bad employees were
treated more leniently by [his employer] if they happened
not to be black").
Our cases interpreting § 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of
1973, 87 Stat. 394, as amended, which prohibits "discrimination" against certain individuals with disabilities, have applied this commonly understood meaning of discrimination.
Section 504 provides:
"No otherwise qualified handicapped individual ...
shall, solely by reason of his handicap, be excluded from
the participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be sub'Following Wards Cove, Congress enacted the Civil Rights Act of 1991,
Pub. L. 102-166, 105 Stat. 1071, as amended, which, inter alia, altered the
burden of proof with respect to a disparate impact discrimination claim.
See id., §105 (codified at42 U. S. C. §2000e-2(k)). This change highlights
the principle that a departure from the traditional understanding of discrimination requires congressional action. Cf. Field v. Mans, 516 U. S.
59, 69-70 (1995) (Congress legislates against the background rule of the
common law and traditional notions of lawful conduct).

Cite as: 527 U. S. 581 (1999)
THOMAS, J., dissenting

jected to discrimination under any program or activity
receiving Federal financial assistance."
In keeping with the traditional paradigm, we have always
limited the application of the term "discrimination" in the
Rehabilitation Act to a person who is a member of a protected group and faces discrimination "by reason of his
handicap." Indeed, we previously rejected the argument
that § 504 requires the type of "affirmative efforts to overcome the disabilities caused by handicaps," Southeastern
Community College v. Davis, 442 U. S. 397, 410 (1979), that
the majority appears to endorse today. Instead, we found
that § 504 required merely "the evenhanded treatment of
handicapped persons" relative to those persons who do not
have disabilities. Ibid. Our conclusion was informed by
the fact that some provisions of the Rehabilitation Act envision "affirmative action" on behalf of those individuals
with disabilities, but § 504 itself "does not refer at all" to
such action. Ibid. Therefore, "[a] comparison of these provisions demonstrates that Congress understood accommodation of the needs of handicapped individuals may require
affirmative action and knew how to provide for it in those
instances where it wished to do so." Id., at 411.
Similarly, in Alexander v. Choate, 469 U. S. 287, 302 (1985),
we found no discrimination under §504 with respect to a
limit on inpatient hospital care that was "neutral on its face"
and did not "distinguish between those whose coverage will
be reduced and those whose coverage will not on the basis
of any test, judgment, or trait that the handicapped as a
class are less capable of meeting or less likely of having,"
id., at 302. We said that § 504 does "not... guarantee the
handicapped equal results from the provision of state Medicaid, even assuming some measure of equality of health
could be constructed." Id., at 304.
Likewise, in Traynor v. Turnage,485 U. S.535, 548 (1988),
we reiterated that the purpose of § 504 is to guarantee that
individuals with disabilities receive "evenhanded treatment"

OLMSTEAD v. L. C.
THOMAS, J., dissenting

relative to those persons without disabilities. In Traynor,
the Court upheld a Veterans' Administration regulation that
excluded "primary alcoholics" from a benefit that was extended to persons disabled by alcoholism related to a mental
disorder. Id., at 551. In so doing, the Court noted that
"[tihis litigation does not involve a program or activity that
is alleged to treat handicapped persons less favorably than
nonhandicapped persons." Id., at 548. Given the theory of
the case, the Court explicitly held: "There is nothing in the
Rehabilitation Act that requires that any benefit extended
to one category of handicapped persons also be extended to
all other categories of handicapped persons." Id., at 549.
This same understanding of discrimination also informs
this Court's constitutional interpretation of the term. See
General Motors Corp. v. Tracy, 519 U.S. 278, 298 (1997)
(noting with respect to interpreting the Commerce Clause,
"[c]onceptually, of course, any notion of discrimination assumes a comparison of substantially similar entities"); Yick
Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 856, 374 (1886) (condemning under
the Fourteenth Amendment "illegal discriminations between persons in similar circumstances"); see also Adarand
Constructors, Inc. v. Pefia, 515 U. S. 200, 223-224 (1995);
Richmond v. J A. Croson Co., 488 U. S. 469, 493-494 (1989)
(plurality opinion).
Despite this traditional understanding, the majority derives a more "comprehensive" definition of "discrimination,"
as that term is used in Title II of the ADA, one that includes
"institutional isolation of persons with disabilities." Ante,
at 600. It chiefly relies on certain congressional findings
contained within the ADA. To be sure, those findings appear to equate institutional isolation with segregation, and
thereby discrimination. See ibid. (quoting §§ 12101(a)(2)
and 12101(a)(5), both of which explicitly identify "segregation" of persons with disabilities as a form of "discrimination"); see also ante, at 588-589. The congressional findings,
however, are written in general, hortatory terms and pro-

Cite as: 527 U. S. 581 (1999)
THOMAS, J., dissenting

vide little guidance to the interpretation of the specific language of § 12132. See National Organizationfor Women,
Inc. v. Scheidler, 510 U. S. 249, 260 (1994) ("We also think
that the quoted statement of congressional findings is a
rather thin reed upon which to base a requirement"). In
my view, the vague congressional findings upon which the
majority relies simply do not suffice to show that Congress
sought to overturn a well-established understanding of a
statutory term (here, "discrimination"). 4 Moreover, the majority fails to explain why terms in the findings should be
given a medical content, pertaining to the place where a
mentally retarded person is treated. When read in context,
the findings instead suggest that terms such as "segregation"
were used in a more general sense, pertaining to matters
such as access to employment, facilities, and transportation.
Absent a clear directive to the contrary, we must read "discrimination" in light of the common understanding of the
term. We cannot expand the meaning of the term "discrimination" in order to invalidate policies we may find unfortunate. Cf. NLRB v. Highland Park Mfg. Co., 341 U. S. 322,
325 (1951) (explaining that if Congress intended statutory
terms "to have other than their ordinarily accepted meaning,
4If such general hortatory language is sufficient, it is puzzling that this
or any other court did not reach the same conclusion long ago by reference
to the general purpose language of the Rehabilitation Act itself. See 29
U. S. C. §701 (1988 ed.) (describing the statute's purpose as "to develop
and implement, through research, training, services, and the guarantee of
equal opportunity, comprehensive and coordinated programs of vocational
rehabilitation and independent living, for individuals with handicaps in
order to maximize their employability, independence, and integration
into the workplace and the community" (emphasis added)). Further, this
section has since been amended to proclaim in even more aspirational
terms that the policy under the statute is driven by, inter alia, "respect
for individual dignity, personal responsibility, self-determination, and pursuit of meaningful careers, based on informed choice, of individuals with
disabilities," "respect for the privacy, rights, and equal access," and "inclusion, integration, and full participation of the individuals." 29 U. S. C.
§§ 701(c)(1)-(3).

OLMSTEAD v. L. C.
THOMAS, J., dissenting

it would and should have given them a special meaning by
definition"). 5
Elsewhere in the ADA, Congress chose to alter the traditional definition of discrimination. Title I of the ADA,
§ 12112(b)(1), defines discrimination to include "limiting, segregating, or classifying a job applicant or employee in a way
that adversely affects the opportunities or status of such applicant or employee." Notably, however, Congress did not
provide that this definition of discrimination, unlike other
aspects of the ADA, applies to Title II. Ordinary canons of
construction require that we respect the limited applicability of this definition of "discrimination" and not import it
into other parts of the law where Congress did not see fit.
See, e. g., Bates v. United States, 522 U. S. 23, 29-30 (1997)
(" 'Where Congress includes particular language in one section of a statute but omits it in another section of the same
Act, it is generally presumed that Congress acts intentionally and purposely in the disparate inclusion or exclusion'")
(quoting Russello v. United States, 464 U. S. 16, 23 (1983)).
The majority's definition of discrimination-although not
specifically delineated-substantially imports the definition
of Title I into Title II by necessarily assuming that it is
sufficient to focus exclusively on members of one particular
5 Given

my conclusion, the Court need not review the integration regulation promulgated by the Attorney General. See 28 CFR §35.130(d)
(1998). Deference to a regulation is appropriate only "'if Congress has
not expressed its intent with respect to the question, and then only if
the administrative interpretation is reasonable."' Reno v. Bossier Parish
School Bd., 520 U. S. 471, 483 (1997) (quoting Presley v. Etowah County
Comm'n, 502 U. S. 491, 508 (1992)). Here, Congress has expressed its
intent in § 12132, and the Attorney General's regulation-insofar as it
contradicts the settled meaning of the statutory term-cannot prevail
against it. See NLRB v. Town & Country Elec., Inc., 516 U. S. 85, 94
(1995) (explaining that courts interpreting a term within a statute "must

infer, unless the statute otherwise dictates, that Congress means to incorporate the established meaning of that term" (internal quotation marks
omitted)).

Cite as: 527 U. S. 581 (1999)
THOMAS, J., dissenting

group. Under this view, discrimination occurs when some
members of a protected group are treated differently from
other members of that same group. As the preceding discussion emphasizes, absent a special definition supplied by
Congress, this conclusion is a remarkable and novel proposition that finds no support in our decisions in analogous areas.
For example, the majority's conclusion that petitioners "discriminated" against respondents is the equivalent to finding
discrimination under Title VII where a black employee with
deficient management skills is denied in-house training by
his employer (allegedly because of lack of funding) because
other similarly situated black employees are given the inhouse training. Such a claim would fly in the face of our
prior case law, which requires more than the assertion that
a person belongs to a protected group and did not receive
some benefit. See, e. g., Griggs,401 U. S., at 430-431 ("Congress did not intend by Title VII, however, to guarantee a
job to every person regardless of qualifications. In short,
the Act does not command that any person be hired simply
because he was formerly the subject of discrimination, or
because he is a member of a minority group").
At bottom, the type of claim approved of by the majority
does not concern a prohibition against certain conduct (the
traditional understanding of discrimination), but rather concerns imposition of a standard of care.' As such, the major6

In mandating that government agencies minimize the institutional
isolation of disabled individuals, the majority appears to appropriate the
concept of '"iainstreaming" from the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA), 84 Stat. 175, as amended, 20 U. S. C. § 1400 et seq.
But IDEA is not an antidiscrimination law. It is a grant program that
affirmatively requires States accepting federal funds to provide disabled children with a "free appropriate public education" and to establish
"procedures to assure that, to the maximum extent appropriate, children
with disabilities ...

are educated with children who are not disabled."

§§ 1412(1), (5). Ironically, even under this broad affirmative mandate, we
previously rejected a claim that IDEA required the "standard of care"

OLMSTEAD v. L. C.
THO As, J., dissenting

ity can offer no principle limiting this new species of "discrimination" claim apart from an affirmative defense because
it looks merely to an individual in isolation, without comparing him to otherwise similarly situated persons, and determines that discrimination occurs merely because that individual does not receive the treatment he wishes to receive.
By adopting such a broad view of discrimination, the majority drains the term of any meaning other than as a proxy for
decisions disapproved of by this Court.
Further, I fear that the majority's approach imposes significant federalism costs, directing States how to make decisions about their delivery of public services. We previously
have recognized that constitutional principles of federalism erect limits on the Federal Government's ability to direct state officers or to interfere with the functions of state
governments. See, e. g., Printz v. United States, 521 U. S.
898 (1997); New York v. United States, 505 U. S.144 (1992).
We have suggested that these principles specifically apply to
whether States are required to provide a certain level of
benefits to individuals with disabilities. As noted in Alexander, in rejecting a similar theory under § 504 of the Rehabilitation Act: "[N]othing . . . suggests that Congress
desired to make major inroads on the States' longstanding
discretion to choose the proper mix of amount, scope, and
duration limitations on services .. ." 469 U. S., at 307.
See also Bowen v. American HospitalAssn., 476 U. S.610,
642 (1986) (plurality opinion) ("[N]othing in [§ 504] authorizes [the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS)]
to commandeer state agencies .... [These] agencies are
analysis adopted by the majority today. See Board of Ed. of Hendrick
Hudson Central School Dist., Westchester Cty. v. Rowley, 458 U. S. 176,
198 (1982) ("We think . . .that the requirement that a State provide
specialized educational services to handicapped children generates no additional requirement that the services so provided be sufficient to maxAimize each child's potential commensurate with the opportunity provided
other children" (internal quotation marks omitted)).

Cite as: 527 U. S. 581 (1999)
THOMAS,

J., dissenting

not field offices of the HHS bureaucracy, and they may not
be conscripted against their will as the foot soldiers in a
federal crusade"). The majority's affirmative defense will
likely come as cold comfort to the States that will now be
forced to defend themselves in federal court every time resources prevent the immediate placement of a qualified individual. In keeping with our traditional deference in this
area, see Alexander, supra, the appropriate course would
be to respect the States' historical role as the dominant
authority responsible for providing services to individuals
with disabilities.
The majority may remark that it actually does properly
compare members of different groups. Indeed, the majority
mentions in passing the "[dlissimilar treatment" of persons
with and without disabilities. Ante, at 601. It does so in
the context of supporting its conclusion that institutional
isolation is a form of discrimination. It cites two cases as
standing for the unremarkable proposition that discrimination leads to deleterious stereotyping, ante, at 600 (citing
Allen v. Wright, 468 U. S. 737, 755 (1984); Manhart,435 U. S.,
at 707, n. 13)), and an amicus brief which indicates that
confinement diminishes certain everyday life activities, ante,
at 601 (citing Brief for American Psychiatric Association
et al. as Amici Curiae 20-22). The majority then observes
that persons without disabilities "can receive the services
they need without" institutionalization and thereby avoid
these twin deleterious effects. Ante, at 601. I do not quarrel with the two general propositions, but I fail to see how
they assist in resolving the issue before the Court. Further,
the majority neither specifies what services persons with disabilities might need nor contends that persons without disabilities need the same services as those with disabilities,
leading to the inference that the dissimilar treatment the
majority observes results merely from the fact that different
classes of persons receive different services-not from "discrimination" as traditionally defined.

OLMSTEAD v. L. C.
THOMAS, J., dissenting

Finally, it is also clear petitioners did not "discriminate"
against respondents "by reason of [their] disabili[ties]," as
§ 12132 requires. We have previously interpreted the phrase
"by reason of" as requiring proximate causation. See, e. g.,
Holmes v. Securities Investor Protection Corporation,503
U. S.258, 265-266 (1992); see also id., at 266, n. 11 (citation
of cases). Such an interpretation is in keeping with the vernacular understanding of the phrase. See American Heritage Dictionary 1506 (3d ed. 1992) (defining "by reason of"
as "because of"). This statute should be read as requiring proximate causation as well. Respondents do not contend that their disabilities constituted the proximate cause
for their exclusion. Nor could they-community placement
simply is not available to those without disabilities. Continued institutional treatment of persons who, though now
deemed treatable in a community placement, must wait their
turn for placement does not establish that the denial of community placement occurred "by reason of" their disability.
Rather, it establishes no more than the fact that petitioners
have limited resources.
For the foregoing reasons, I respectfully dissent.

