OCTOBER TERM, 1998
Per Curiam

MARYLAND v. DYSON
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF
SPECIAL APPEALS OF MARYLAND
No. 98-1062.

Decided June 21, 1999

After receiving a tip from a reliable informant, sheriff's deputies stopped
and searched respondent's vehicle and found 23 grams of cocaine in the
trunk. The Court of Special Appeals reversed his drug conviction,
holding that in order for the automobile exception to the Fourth Amendment's warrant requirement to apply, there must not only be probable
cause to believe that evidence of a crime is contained in the car, but
also a separate finding of exigency precluding the police from obtaining
a warrant.
Held:- The automobile exception does not require a separate finding of exigency in addition to a finding of probable cause. This Court's established precedent makes clear that in cases where there was probable
cause to search a vehicle, a search is not unreasonable if based on facts
that would justify issuing a warrant, even though a warrant has not
been actually obtained. E. g., United States v. Ross, 456 U. S. 798, 809.
Here, the lower court found "abundant probable cause" that the car
contained contraband, which alone satisfies the warrant requirement's
automobile exception.
Certiorari granted; 122 Md. App. 413, 712 A. 2d 573, reversed.
PER CURIAM.

In this case, the Maryland Court of Special Appeals held
that the Fourth Amendment requires police to obtain a
search warrant before searching a vehicle which they have
probable cause to believe contains illegal drugs. Because
this holding rests upon an incorrect interpretation of the
automobile exception to the Fourth Amendments warrant
requirement, we grant the petition for certiorari and reverse.
At 11 a.m. on the morning of July 2, 1996, a St. Mary's
County (Maryland) Sheriff's Deputy received a tip from a
reliable confidential informant that respondent had gone to
New York to buy drugs, and would be returning to Maryland
in a rented red Toyota, license number DDY 787, later that
day with a large quantity of cocaine. The deputy investi-

MARYLAND v. DYSON
Per Curiam

gated the tip and found that the license number given to him
by the informant belonged to a red Toyota Corolla that had
been rented to respondent, who was a known drug dealer in
St. Mary's County. When respondent returned to St. Mary's
County in the rented car at 1 a.m. on July 3, the deputies
stopped and searched the vehicle, finding 23 grams of crack
cocaine in a duffel bag in the trunk. Respondent was arrested, tried, and convicted of conspiracy to possess cocaine
with intent to distribute. He appealed, arguing that the
trial court had erroneously denied his motion to suppress
the cocaine on the alternative grounds that the police lacked
probable cause, or that even if there was probable cause, the
warrantless search violated the Fourth Amendment because
there was sufficient time after the informant's tip to obtain
a warrant.
The Maryland Court of Special Appeals reversed, 122 Md.
App. 413, 712 A. 2d 573 (1998), holding that in order for the
automobile exception to the warrant requirement to apply,
there must not only be probable cause to believe that evidence of a crime is contained in the automobile, but also a
separate finding of exigency precluding the police from
obtaining a warrant. Id., at 424, 712 A. 2d, at 578. Applying this rule to the facts of the case, the Court of Special
Appeals concluded that although there was "abundant probable cause," the search violated the Fourth Amendment because there was no exigency that prevented or even made it
significantly difficult for the police to obtain a search warrant. Id., at 426, 712 A. 2d, at 579. The Maryland Court
of Appeals denied certiorari. 351 Md. 287, 718 A. 2d 235
(1998). We grant certiorari and now reverse.
The Fourth Amendment generally requires police to secure a warrant before conducting a search. California v.
Carney, 471 U. S. 386, 390-391 (1985). As we recognized
nearly 75 years ago in Carroll v. United States, 267 U. S.
132, 153 (1925), there is an exception to this requirement for
searches of vehicles. And under our established precedent,
the "automobile exception" has no separate exigency re-

Cite as: 527 U. S. 465 (1999)
Per Curiam

quirement. We made this clear in United States v. Ross, 456
U. S. 798, 809 (1982), when we said that in cases where there
was probable cause to search a vehicle "a search is not unreasonable if based on facts that would justify the issuance of a
warrant, even though a warrant has not been actually obtained." (Emphasis added.) In a case with virtually identical facts to this one (even down to the bag of cocaine in the
trunk of the car), Pennsylvania v. Labron, 518 U. S. 938
(1996) (percuriam), we repeated that the automobile exception does not have a separate exigency requirement: "If a car
is readily mobile and probable cause exists to believe it contains contraband, the Fourth Amendment... permits police
to search the vehicle without more." Id., at 940.
In this case, the Court of Special Appeals found that there
was "abundant probable cause" that the car contained contraband. This finding alone satisfies the automobile exception to the Fourth Amendment's warrant requirement, a
conclusion correctly reached by the trial court when it denied respondents motion to suppress. The holding of the
Court of Special Appeals that the "automobile exception"
requires a separate finding of exigency in addition to a finding of probable cause is squarely contrary to our holdings in
Ross and Labron. We therefore grant the petition for writ
of certiorari and reverse the judgment of the Court of Special Appeals.*
It is so ordered.
,*JUSTICE BREYER in dissent suggests that we should not summarily
reverse a judgment in a criminal case, even though he agrees with this
opinion as a matter of law. But to adopt that position would simply leave
it in the hands of a respondent-who had obtained a lower court judgment manifestly wrong as a matter of federal constitutional law-to avoid
summary reversal by the simple expedient of refusing to file a response.
While we have on occasion appointed an attorney to file a brief as amicus
curiaein a case where we have grantedcertiorari, in order to be sure that
the argued case is fully briefed, we have never done so in cases which we
have summarily reversed. The reason for this is that a summary reversal
does not decide any new or unanswered question of law, but simply corrects a lower court's demonstrably erroneous application of federal law.

468

MARYLAND v. DYSON
BREYER, J.,

dissenting

JUSTICE BREYER, with whom JUSTICE STEVENS joins,
dissenting.
I agree that the Court's per curiam opinion correctly
states the law, but because respondent's counsel is not a
member of this Court's bar and did not wish to become
one, respondent has not ified a brief in opposition to the
petition for certiorari. I believe we should not summarily
reverse in a criminal case, irrespective of the merits, where
the respondent is represented by a counsel unable to file a
response, without first inviting an attorney to fie a brief
as amicus curiae in response to the petition for certiorari.
For this reason, I dissent.

