UNITED STATES v. GREEN.

415

Syllabus.

UNITED STATES v. GREEN

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 54.

Argued February 27, 1956.-Decided March 26; 1956.

Obstruction of interstate commerce or an attempt to do so through
the wrongful use by a labor union or its agents of actual or threatened force, violence or fear, in an attempt to compel an employer
to pay "wages" to members of the union for imposed, unwanted,
superfluous and fictitious "services," is a violation of the Hobbs
Act, 18 U. S. C. § 1951. Pp. 416-421.
(a) The coverage of 18 U. S. C. § 1951 is not confined to attempts to obtain money or other property for the extortioner's
personal advantage; it applies also to attempts by a union or its
agents to get jobs and pay for its members by threats and violence.
Pp. 418-420.
(b) The legislative history of the Act shows that it was intended
to cover the employer-employee relationship. Pp. 418-419.
(c) A different result is not required by the provision of Title
II of the Hobbs Act that it should not affect the Clayton Act, the
•Norris-LaGuardia Act, the Railway Labor Act or the National
Labor Relations Act, since there is nothing in those Acts indicating
"any protection for unions or their officials in attempts to get
personal property through threats of force or violence. Pp. 419420.
(d) Since this legislation is directed at the protection of interstate commerce against injury from extortion, it is within the power
of Congress. Pp. 420-421.
135 F. Supp. 162, reversed.

Oscar H. Davis argued the cause for the United States.
On thQ brief were Solicitor General Sobeloff, Assistant
Attorney General Olney, Beatrice Rosenberg and Carl H.
Imlay.

Arthur M. Fitzgerald argued the cause for appellees.
With him on the brief were Schaeffer O'Neill and William

P. Roberts.

OCTOBER TERM, 1955.
Opinion of the Court.

350 U. S.

REED delivered the opinion of the Court.
An indictment was found in the Southern District of
Illinois against appellees Green and a local union. The
jury adjudged them guilty under counts one and two
thereof. The court sustained their separate motions in
arrest of judgment, setting out in its order that its action
was "solely" on the following grounds:
"2. This court is without jurisdiction of the offense.
"(b) The facts alleged in the Indictment failed to set
forth an offense against the United States such as
to give this Court jurisdiction.
"(c') A proper construction of the statute in question
clearly indicates that it does not cover the type of
activity charged in this indictment; to interpret the
Act in question as covering the type of activity
charged in this Indictment is to extend the jurisdiction of this Court and the power of Congress
beyond their Constitutional limits."
Appeal was taken by the United States directly to this
MR.

JUSTICE

Court under 18 U. S. C. § 3731.1

We noted probable

jurisdiction. 350 U. S. 813.
The two counts in question were based upon alleged
violations of 18 U. S C. § 1951, popularly known as the
Hobbs Act. The pertinent statutory provisions are
subsections (a) and (b) (2) thereof, reading as follows:
"(a) Whoever in any way or degree obstructs,
delays, or affects commerce or the movement of any
'"An appeal may be taken by and on behalf of the United States
from the district courts direct to the Supreme Court of the United
States in all criminal cases in the following instances:
"From a decision arresting a judgment of conviction for insufficiency of the indictment or information, where such decision is based
upon the invalidity or construction of the statute upon which the
indictment or information is founded."

UNITED STATES v. GREEN.
415

Opinion of the Court.

article or commodity in commerce, by robbery or
extortion or attempts or conspires so to do, or commits or threatens physical violence to any person or
property in furtherance of a plan or purpose to do
anything in violation of this section shall be fined not
more than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than
twenty years, or both.

"(b) ...

"(2) The term 'extortion' means the obtaining of
property from another, with his consent, induced by
wrongful use of actual or threatened force, violence,
or fear, or under color of official right."
Each of the two counts charged appellees with acts of
extortion under § 1951 directed against a different employer. The extortions alleged consisted of attempts to
obtain from the particular employer
"his money, in the form of wages to be paid for imposed, unwanted, superfluous and fictitious services
of laborers commonly known as swampers, in connection with the operation of machinery and equipment then being used and operated by said
[employer]' in the execution of his said contract for
maintenance work on said levee, the attempted obtaining of said property from said [employer] as
aforesaid being then intended to be accomplished and
accomplished with the consent of said [employer],
induced and obtained by the wrongful use, to wit, the
use for the purposes aforesaid, of actual and threatened force, violence and fear made to said [employer],
and his employees and agents then and there being;
in violation of Section 1951 of Title 18, United
States Code."
Appellees each filed motions for acquittal or in the
alternative for a new trial. These the trial court specifically denied. The opinion of the trial court, 135 F.

OCTOBER TERM, 1955.
Opinion of the Court.

350 U. S.

Supp. 162, says nothing as to failure of evidence to support the allegations of the indictment, or as to trial errors.
Instead the court relied upon the absence of criminality
in the acts charged, and it was therefore logical for the
trial court to deny acquittal and new trial.! The court
thought persuasive our recent cases which held union
efforts to secure "made work" for their members were not
unfair labor practices.8 From its view that extortion as
defined in the Hobbs Act covers only the taking of property from another for the extortioner's personal advantage, the necessity to arrest the judgment followed. Rule
34, Fed. Rules Crim. Proc.
We do-not agree with that interpretation of the section.
The Hobbs Act was passed after this Court had construed
§ 2 of the Federal Anti-Racketeering Act of 1934, 48 Stat.
979, in United States v. Local 807, 315 U. S. 521. Subsection (a) of § 2 barred, with respect to interstate
commerce, exaction of valuable considerations by force,
violence or coercion, "not including, however, the payment
2 The

opinion states:

"It is now contended that the Indictment does not state a cause
of action within the meaning of the above section. In the usual
extortion case, the extorter is obtaining money or property of another
for his own benefit. . . . In the case at hand, I conclude that Green's
original activity in 'attempting to obtain from Arthur W. Terry, Jr.,
his money in the form of wages to be paid for imposed, unwanted,
superfluous and fictitious services of laborers' which said charge was
seriously controverted, was of itself not a violation of this statute,
and within his rights and responsibilities as a Union representative,
which was not prohibited by this statute.
I conclude that the trouble in thig Community and on this
particular job was caused by a disagreement between the contractor
and labor, and was in no wise an attempt to extort for the use of
either the Union or the Defendant Green, any money or property of
the contractor." 135 F. Supp., at 163, 164.
2 See American Newspaper Publishers Association v. Labor Board,
345 U. S. 100; Labor Board v. Gamble Enterprises,345 U. S. 117.

UNITED STATES v. GREEN.
415

Opinion of the Court.

of wages by a bona-fide employer to a bona-fide
employee." We held in Local 807 that this exception
covered members of a city truck drivers' union offering
superfluous services to drive arriving trucks to their city
destination with intent, if the truck owners refused their
offer, to exact the wages by violence.' In the Hobbs Act,
60 Stat. 420, carried forward as 18 U. S. C. § 1951, which
amended the Anti-Racketeering Act, the exclusion clause
involved in the Local 807 decision was dropped. The
legislative history makes clear that the new Act was meant
to eliminate any grounds for future judicial conclusions
that Congress did not intend to cover the employeremployee relationship.' The words were defined to avoid
.nymisunderstanding.
Title II of the Hobbs Act provides that the provisions
of the Act shall not affect the Clayton Act, §§ 6 and 20,
The exception was held also to permeate the entire Act. P. 527,
n. 2.
5Beginning soon after our decision in the Local 807 case, a series
of bills was introduced in Congress looking toward an amendment
to the Anti-Racketeering Act of 1934. S.2347, 77th Cong., 2d Sess.;
H. R. 6872, 77th Cong., 2d Sess.; H. R. 7067, 77th Cong., 2d Sess.;
H. R. 653, 78th Cong., 1st Sess.; H. R. 32, 79th Cong., 1st Sess. The
last of these bills, H. R. 32, supra, was enacted and became the Hobbs
Act, 62 Stat. 793. The House Committee on the Judiciary, in its
report on H. R. 32, stated:
"It is not the intention of the committee that title III [enacted as
title II] be interpreted as authorizing any unlawful acts, particularly
those amounting to robbery or extortion. The need for the legislation was emphasized by the opinion of the Supreme Court in the
case of United States v.Local 807 (315 U. S. 521)." H. R. Rep.
No.238, 79th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 10. See also S.Rep. No. 1516, 79th
Cong., 2d Sess.
Each of the prior bills had the same purpose-amending the AntiRacketeering Act so as to change the terms which brought about
the result reached in the Local 807 case. See H. R. Rep. No. 2176,
77th Cong., 2d Sess.; H. R. Rep. No. 66, 78th Cong., 1st Sess. And
see 91 Cong. Rec. 11842, 11843, 11909, 11911, 11919, 11920.

OCTOBER TERM, 1955.
Opinion of the Court.

350 U. S.

38 Stat. 731, 738; the Norris-LaGuardia Act, 47 Stat.
70; the Railway Labor Act, 44 Stat. 577; or the National
Labor Relations Act, 49 Stat. 449.' There is nothing in
any of those Acts, however, that indicates any. protection
for unions or their officials in attempts to get personal
property through threats of force or violence. Those
are not legitimate means for improving labor conditions.!
If the trial court intended by its references to the NorrisLaGuardia and Wagner Acts to indicate any such labor
exception, which we doubt, it was in error. Apparently
what the court meant is more clearly expressed by its
statement, set out in the last paragraph of note 2 above,
that the charged acts would be criminal only if they were
used to obtain property for the personal benefit of the
union or its agent, in this case Green. This latter holding
is also erroneous. The city truckers in the Local 807 case
similarly were trying by force to get jobs and pay from
the out-of-state truckers by threats and violence. The
Hobbs Act was meant to stop just such conduct. And
extortion as defined in the statute in no way depends upon
having a direct benefit conferred on the person who
obtains the property.
It is also stated in the opinion below that to interpret
the Act as covering the activity charged would "extend
the jurisdiction of the Court, and the power of Congress
beyond their Constitutional limits." 135 F. Supp., at
162* The same language is in the order. Since in our
view the legislation is directed at the protection of interstate commerce against injury from extortion, the court's
holding is clearly wrong. We said in the Local 807 case
onThe Hobbs Act was enacted prior to the Labor Management
Relations Act of 1947.
7Cf. United States v. Ryan, 350 U. S. 299; United Construction Workers v. Laburnum Corp., 347 U. S. 656; Allen-Bradley Local
v. Wisconsin Board, 315 U. S. 740; Labor Board v. Fansteel Corp.,
306 U. S. 240; United States v. Kemble, 198 F. 2d 889.

UNITED STATES v. GREEN.
415

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

that racketeering affecting interstate commerce was
within federal legislative control. 315 U. S., at 536. Cf.
Cleveland v. United States, 329 U. S. 14, 19; Mitchell v.
Vollmer & Co., 349 U. S. 427.
On this appeal the record does not contain the evidence
upon which the court acted. The indictment charges
interference with commerce by extortion in the words of
the Act's definition of that crime. We rule only on the
allegations of the indictment and hold that the acts
charged against appellees fall within the terms of the Act.
The order in arrest of judgment is reversed and the cause
remanded to the District Court.
It is so ordered.
with whom THE CHIEF JUSTICE
concur, dissenting.
The Government has no right to a direct appeal to this
Court under 18 U. S. C. § 3731 if the District Court judgment "was not placed solely upon the invalidity or construction of the statute." United States v. Wayne Pump
Co., 317 U. S. 200, 208. (Italics added.) The presence
of any additional and independent ground for the District
Court's order is'
fatal to direct reiew here. I am convinced that there is such an independent ground for the
District Court's judgment in this case. It is evident from
the district judge's memorandum opinion (135 F. Supp.
162) that his order granting the motions in arrest of judgment rested at least in part upon the insufficiency of the
evidence to support the conviction. He considered facts
not alleged in the indictment, e. g., that contractors in the
community had customarily agreed to the employment
of labor which allegedly was demanded by appellees, and
that the trouble on the particular job was caused by a
disagreement between the contractor and labor, not by
an attempt to extort. I would therefore dismiss the
Government's appeal.
MR.JUSTICE DOUGLAS,
and MR.JUSTICE BLACK

