CHESSMAN v. TEETS.
Opinion of the Court.

CHESSMAN v. TEETS, WARDEN.
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED
STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 196. Decided October 17, 1955.
Petitioner applied to a Federal District Court for a writ of habeas
corpus, claiming that his automatic appeal to the California Supreme Court from a conviction for a capital offense had been heard
upon a fraudulently prepared transcript of the trial procee(Cngs.
Held: His application alleged a denial of due process of law in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment; it should not have been summarily dismissed; and the case is remanded to the District Court
for a hearing.
;21 F. 2d 276, reversed.
Jerome A. Duffy for petitioner.
PER CURIAM.

Petitioner applied to the United States District Court,
Northern District of California, Southern Division, for a
writ of habeas corpus, claiming that his automatic appeal
to the California Supreme Court from a conviction for
a capital offense had been heard upon a fraudulently
prepared transcript of the trial proceedings. The official
court reporter had died before completing the transcription of his stenographic notes of the trial, and petitioner
alleges that the prosecuting attorney and the substitute
reporter selected by him had, by corrupt arrangement,
prepared the fraudulent transcript. On the record before
us, there is no denial of petitioner's allegations. The
District Court, without issuing the writ or an order to
show cause, dismissed the application as not stating a
cause of action. 128 F. Supp. 600. The Court of
Appeals affirmed the order of the District Court. 221
F. 2d 276. The charges of fraud as such set forth
a denial of due process of law in violation of the

4

OCTOBER TERM, 1955.
Opinion of the Court.

350 U. S.

Fourteenth Amendment. See Mooney v. Holohan, 294
U. S. 103. Without intimating any opinion regarding
the validity of the claim, we hold that in the circumstances
disclosed by the record before us the application should
not have been summarily dismissed. Accordingly, the
petition for a writ of certiorari is granted, the judgment
of the Court -of Appeals is reversed and the cise is
remanded to the District Court for a hearing.
MR. JUSTICE REED, MR. JUSTICE BURTON,
JUSTICE CLARK

and MR.

dissent.

THE CHIEF JUSTICE took no

or decision of this case.

part in the consideration

