OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Syllabus

441 U. S.

AMBACH, COMMISSIONER OF EDUCATION OF THE

STATE OF NEW YORK,
APPEAL FROM

THE UNITED

ET AL.

STATES

V.

NORWICK

DISTRICT COURT

ET AL.
FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK

No. 76-808.

Argued January 10, 1979-Decided April 17, 1979

Held: A New York statute forbidding permanent certification as a public
school teacher of any person who is not a United States citizen unless
that person has manifested an intention to apply for citizenship, does not
violate the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Pp. 72-81.
(a) As a general principle some state functions are so bound up with
the operation of the State as a governmental entity as to permit exclusion from those functions of all persons who have not become part of
the process of self-government. Accordingly, a State is required to
justify its exclusion of aliens from such governmental positions only "by
a showing of some rational relationship between the interest sought to
be protected and the limiting classification." Foley v. Connelie, 435
U. S. 291, 296. Pp. 73-74.
(b) This rule for governmental functions, which is an exception to
the stricter general standard applicable to classifications based on
alienage, rests on important principles inherent in the Constitution.
The distinction between citizens and aliens, though ordinarily irrelevant
to private activity, is fundamental to the definition and government of
a State, and the references to such distinction in the Constitution itself
indicate that the status of citizenship was meant to have significance in
the structure of our government. It is because of this special significance
of citizenship that governmental entities, when exercising the functions
of government, have wider latitude in limiting the participation of
noncitizens. P. 75.
(c) Taking into consideration the role of public education and the
degree of responsibility and discretion teachers possess in fulfilling that
role, it is clear that public school teachers come well within the "governmental function" principle recognized in Sugarman v. Dougall, 413 U. S.
634, and Foley v. Connelie, supra, and, accordingly, the Constitution
requires only that a citizenship requirement applicable to teaching in
the public school bear a rational relationship to a legitimate state interest.
Pp. 75-80.

AMBACH v. NORWICK
68

Opinion of the Court

(d) Here, the statute in question does bear a rational relationship to
the State's interest in furthering its educational goals, especially with
respect to regarding all teachers as having an obligation to promote civic
virtues and understanding in their classes, regardless of the subject
taught. Pp. 80-81.
417 F. Supp. 913, reversed.
POWELL, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which BURGER, C. J.,
and STEWART, WHITE, and REHNQUIST, JJ., joined. BLACKMUN, J., filed
a dissenting opinion, in

which

BRENNAN,

MARSHALL, and STEVENS, JJ.,

joined, post, p. 81.

Judith A. Gordon, Assistant Attorney General of New York,
argued the cause for appellants. With her on the briefs were
Robert Abrams, Attorney General, Louis J. Lefkowitz, former
Attorney General, Samuel A. Hirshowitz, First Assistant Attorney General, and George D. Zuckerman, Assistant Solicitor
General.
Bruce J. Ennis, Jr., argued the cause for appellees. With
him on the brief were David Carlinerand Burt Neuborne.*
MR. JUSTICE POWELL delivered the opinion of the Court.

This case presents the question whether a State, consistently with the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment, may refuse to employ as elementary and secondary school teachers aliens who are eligible for United States
citizenship but who refuse to seek naturalization.

New York Education Law § 3001 (3) (McKinney 1970) forbids certification as a public school teacher of any person who
is not a citizen of the United States, unless that person has
*Albert E. Arent, Vilma S. Martinez, Peter Roos, and Roderic V. 0.
Boggs filed a brief for the Washington Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights
Under Law et al. as amici curiae urging affirmance.

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion of the Court

441 U. S.

manifested an intention to apply for citizenship.' The Commissioner of Education is authorized to create exemptions
from this prohibition, and has done so with respect to aliens
who are not yet eligible for citizenship.2 Unless a teacher
obtains certification, he may not work in a public elementary
or secondary school in New York.'
IThe statute provides:
"No person shall be employed or authorized to teach in the public schools
of the state who is:
"3. Not a citizen. The provisions of this subdivision shall not apply,
however, to an alien teacher now or hereafter employed, provided such
teacher shall make due application to become a citizen and thereafter
within the time prescribed by law shall become a citizen. The provisions
of this subdivision shall not apply after July first, nineteen hundred sixtyseven, to an alien teacher employed pursuant to regulations adopted by
the commissioner of education permitting such employment." N. Y.
Educ. Law § 3001 (3) (McKinney 1970).
The statute contains an exception for persons who are ineligible for
United States citizenship solely because of an oversubscribed quota.
§ 3001-a (McKinney 1970). Because this statutory provision is in all
respects narrower than the exception provided by regulation, see n. 2,
infra, as a practical matter it has no effect.
The State does not certify the qualifications of teachers in the private
schools, although it does require that such teachers be "competent."
N. Y. Educ. Law § 3204 (2) (McKinney Supp. 1978-1979). Accordingly,
we are not presented with the question of, and express no view as to, the
permissibility of a citizenship requirement pertaining to teachers in private
schools.
2 The following regulation governs here:
"Citizenship. A teacher who is not a citizen of the United States or who
has not declared intention of becoming a citizen may be issued a provisional certificate providing such teacher has the appropriate educational
qualifications as defined in the regulations and (1) possesses skills or
competencies not readily available among teachers holding citizenship,
or (2) is unable to declare intention of becoming a citizen for valid
statutory reasons." 8 N. Y. C. R. R. § 80.2 (i) (1978).
3 Certification by the Commissioner of Education is not required of
teachers at state institutions of higher education and the citizenship

AMBACH v. NORWICK
68

Opinion of the Court

Appellee Norwick was born in Scotland and is a subject of
Great Britain. She has resided in this country since 1965 and
is married to a United States citizen. Appellee Dachinger
is a Finnish subject who came to this country in 1966 and also
is married to a United States citizen. Both Norwick and
Dachinger currently meet all of the educational requirements
New York has set for certification as a public school teacher,
but they consistently have refused to seek citizenship in spite
of their eligibility to do so. Norwick applied in 1973 for a
teaching certificate covering nursery school through sixth
grade, and Dachinger sought a certificate covering the same
grades in 1975.' Both applications were denied because of
appellees' failure to meet the requirements of §3001 (3).
Norwick then filed this suit seeking to enjoin the enforcement
of § 3001 (3), and Dachinger obtained leave to intervene as
a plaintiff.
A three-judge District Court was convened pursuant to 28
U. S. C. § 2281 (1970 ed.). Applying the "close judicial scrutiny" standard of Graham v. Richardson, 403 U. S. 365, 372
(1971), the court held that §3001 (3) discriminated against
aliens in violation of the Equal Protection Clause. Norwick
v. Nyquist, 417 F. Supp. 913 (SDNY 1976). The court believed that the statute was overbroad, because it excluded all
resident aliens from all teaching jobs regardless of the subject
sought to be taught, the alien's nationality, the nature of the
restriction accordingly does not apply to them. Brief for Appellants
13 n. *.
4 At the time of her application Norwick had not yet met the postgraduate educational requirements for a permanent certificate and accordingly applied only for a temporary certificate, which also is governed by
§ 3001 (3). She since has obtained the necessary graduate degree for full

certification. Dachinger previously had obtained a temporary certificate,
which had lapsed at the time of her 1975 application. The record does
not indicate whether Dachinger previously had declared an intent to

obtain citizenship or had obtained the temporary certificate because of
some applicable exception to the citizenship requirement.

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion of the Court

441 U. S.

alien's relationship to this country, and the alien's willingness
to substitute some other sign of loyalty to this Nation's political values, such as an oath of allegiance. Id., at 921. We
noted probable jurisdiction over the state school officials' appeal, 436 U. S. 902 (1978), and now reverse.
II
A
The decisions of this Court regarding the permissibility of
statutory classifications involving aliens have not formed an
unwavering line over the years. State regulation of the employment of aliens long has been subject to constitutional
constraints. In Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356 (1886),
the Court struck down an ordinance which was applied to
Jrevent aliens from running laundries, and in Truax v. Raich,
239 U. S. 33 (1915), a law requiring at least 80% of the
employees of certain businesses to be citizens was held to be
an unconstitutional infringement of an alien's "right to work
for a living in the common occupations of the community. .. ."
Id., at 41. At the same time, however, the Court also has
recognized a greater degree of latitude for the States when
aliens were sought to be excluded from public employment.
At the time Truax was decided, the governing doctrine permitted States to exclude aliens from various activities when
the restriction pertained to "the regulation or distribution of
the public domain, or of the common property or resources of
the people of the State . . . ." Id., at 39. Hence, as part
of a larger authority to forbid aliens from owning land,
Frick v. Webb, 263 U. S. 326 (1923); Webb v. O'Brien, 263
U. S. 313 (1923); Porterfield v. Webb, 263 U. S. 225 (1923);
Terrace v. Thompson, 263 U. S. 197 (1923); Blythe v. Hinckley,
180 U. S. 333 (1901); Hauenstein v. Lynham, 100 U. S. 483
(1880); harvesting wildlife, Patsone v. Pennsylvania, 232
U. S. 138 (1914); McCready v. Virginia, 94 U. S. 391 (1877);

AMBACH v. NORWICK

68

Opinion of the Court

or maintaining an inherently dangerous enterprise, Ohio ex
rel. Clarke v. Deckebach, 274 U. S. 392 (1927), States permissibly could exclude aliens from working on public construction projects, Crane v. New York, 239 U. S. 195 (1915), and,
it appears, from engaging in any form of public employment
at all, see Truax, supra,at 40.
Over time, the Court's decisions gradually have restricted
the activities from which States are free to exclude aliens.
The first sign that the Court would question the constitutionality of discrimination against aliens even in areas affected
with a "public interest" appeared in Oyama v. California,332
U. S. 633 (1948). The Court there held that statutory presumptions designed to discourage evasion of California's ban
on alien landholding discriminated against the citizen children
of aliens. The same Term, the Court held that the "ownership" a State exercises over fish found in its territorial waters
"is inadequate to justify California in excluding any or all
aliens who are lawful residents of the State from making a
living by fishing in the ocean off its shores while permitting
all others to do so." Takahashi v. Fish & Game Comm'n,
334 U. S. 410, 421 (1948).- This process of withdrawal from
the former doctrine culminated in Grahamv. Richardson,supra,
which for the first time treated classifications based on alienage as "inherently suspect and subject to close judicial
scrutiny." 403 U. S., at 372. Applying Graham, this Court
has held invalid statutes that prevented aliens from entering
a State's classified civil service, Sugarman v. Dougall, 413
U. S. 634 (1973), practicing law, In re Griffiths, 413 U. S.
717 (1973), working as an engineer, Examining Board v.
Flores de Otero, 426 U. S. 572 (1976), and receiving state
educational benefits, Nyquist v. Mauclet, 432 U. S. 1 (1977).
Although our more recent decisions have departed substantially from the public-interest doctrine of Truax's day, they
have not abandoned the general principle that some state
functions are so bound up with the operation of the State as

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion of the Court

441 U. S.

a governmental entity as to permit the exclusion from those
functions of all persons who have not become part of the
process of self-government. In Sugarman, we recognized that
a State could, "in an appropriately defined class of positions, require citizenship as a qualification for office." We
went on to observe:
"Such power inheres in the State by virtue of its obligation, already noted above, 'to preserve the basic conception of a political community.'.
. And this power and
responsibility of the State applies, not only to the
qualifications of voters, but also to persons holding state
elective or important nonelective executive, legislative,
and judicial positions, for officers who participate directly
in the formulation, execution, or review of broad public
policy perform functions that go to the heart of representative government." 413 U. S., at 647 (citation

omitted).
The exclusion of aliens from such governmental positions
would not invite as demanding scrutiny from this Court.
Id., at 648. See also Nyquist v. Mauclet, supra, at 11;
Perkins v. Smith, 370 F. Supp. 134 (Md. 1974), summarily
aff'd, 426 U. S. 913 (1976).
Applying the rational-basis standard, we held last Term that
New York could exclude aliens from the ranks of its police
force. Foley v. Connelie, 435 U. S. 291 (1978). Because the
police function fulfilled "a most fundamental obligation of
government to its constituency" and by necessity cloaked
policemen with substantial discretionary powers, we viewed
the police force as being one of those appropriately defined
classes of positions for which a citizenship requirement could
be imposed. Id., at 297. Accordingly, the State was required
to justify its classification only "by a showing of some rational
relationship between the interest sought to be protected and
the limiting classification." Id., at 296.

AMBACH v. NORWICK
68

Opinion of the Court

The rule for governmental functions, which is an exception
to the general standard applicable to classifications based on
alienage, rests on important principles inherent in the Constitution. The distinction between citizens and aliens, though
ordinarily irrelevant to private activity, is fundamental to the
definition and government of a State. The Constitution itself
refers to the distinction no less than 11 times, see Sugarman v.
Dougall, supra, at 651-652 (REHNQUIST, J., dissenting), indicating that the status of citizenship was meant to have significance in the structure of our government. The assumption
of that status, whether by birth or naturalization, denotes an
association with the polity which, in a democratic republic,
exercises the powers of governance. See Foley v. Connelie,
supra, at 295. The form of this association is important: an
oath of allegiance or similar ceremony cannot substitute for
the unequivocal legal bond citizenship represents. It is because of this special significance of citizenship that governmental entities, when exercising the functions of government,
have wider latitude in limiting the participation of noncitizens6
B
In determining whether, for purposes of equal protection
analysis, teaching in public schools constitutes a governmental
function, we look to the role of public education and to the
degree of responsibility and discretion teachers possess in fulfilling that role. See Foley v. Connelie, supra, at 297. Each
of these considerations supports the conclusion that public
school teachers may be regarded as performing a task "that
5That the significance of citizenship has constitutional dimensions also
has been recognized by several of our decisions. In Trop v. Dulles, 356
U. S.86 (1958), a plurality of the Court held that the expatriation of an
American citizen constituted cruel and unusual punishment for the crime
of desertion in time of war. In Afroyim v. Rusk, 387 U. S. 253 (1967),
the Court held that the Constitution forbade Congress from depriving a
person of his citizenship against his will for any reason.

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion of the Court

go[es] to the heart of representative government."

441 U. S.

Sugar-

man v. Dougall, supra, at 647.8
Public education, like the police function, "fulfills a most
fundamental obligation of government to its constituency."
Foley, supra, at 297. The importance of public schools in the
preparation of individuals for participation as citizens, and
in the preservation of the values on which our society rests,
long has been recognized by our decisions:
"Today, education is perhaps the most important function of state and local governments. Compulsory school
attendance laws and the great expenditures for education
The dissenting opinion of MR. JUSTICE BLACKMUN, in reaching an opposite conclusion, appears to apply a different analysis from that employed
in our prior decisions. Rather than considering whether public school
teachers perform a significant government function, the inquiry mandated
by Foley v. Connelie, 435 U. S. 291 (1978), and Sugarman v. Dougall,
the dissent focuses instead on the general societal importance of primary
and secondary school teachers both public and private. Thus, the dissent
on the one hand depreciates the importance of New York's citizenship
requirement because it is not applied to private school teachers, and on the
other hand argues that the role teachers perform in our society is no more
significant than that filled by attorneys. This misses the point of Foley
and Sugarman. New York's citizenship requirement is limited to a governmental function because it applies only to teachers employed by and
acting as agents of the State. The Connecticut statute held unconstitutional in In re Griffths, 413 U. S. 717 (1973), by contrast, applied to all
attorneys, most of whom do not work for the government. The exclusion
of aliens from access to the bar implicated the right to pursue a chosen
occupation, not access to public employment. Cf. Nyqust v. Mauclet, 432
U. S. 1, 15-16, n. (1977) (Pown.L, J., dissenting). The distinction between
a private occupation and a government function was noted expressly in

Griffith :
"Lawyers do indeed occupy professional positions of responsibility and
influence that impose on them duties correlative with their vital right of
access to the courts. Moreover, by virtue of their professional aptitudes
and natural interests, lawyers have been leaders in government throughout
the history of our country. Yet, they are not officials of government by
virtue of being lawyers." 413 U. S., at 729.

AMBACH v. NORWICK

68

Opinion of the Court

both demonstrate our recognition of the importance of
education to our democratic society. It is required in the
performance of our most basic public responsibilities,
even service in the armed forces. It is the very foundation of good citizenship. Today it is a principal instrument in awakening the child to cultural values, in
preparing him for later professional training, and in
helping him to adjust normally to his environment."
Brown v. Board of Education, 347 U. S. 483, 493 (1954).
See also Keyes v. School Dist. No. 1, Denver, Colo., 413 U. S.
189, 246 (1973) (POWELL, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part); San Antonio Independent School Dist. v. Rodriguez, 411 U. S. 1, 29-30 (1973); Wisconsin v. Yoder, 406
U. S. 205, 213 (1972); id., at 238-239 (WHITE, J., concurring); Abington School Dist. v. Schempp, 374 U. S. 203,
230 (1963)

(BRENNAN,

J., concurring); Adler v. Board of

Education, 342 U. S.485, 493 (1952); McCollum v. Board of
Education, 333 U. S.203, 212 (1948) (opinion of Frankfurter,
J.); Pierce v. Society of Sisters, 268 U. S. 510 (1925); Meyer
v. Nebraska, 262 U. S. 390 (1923); Interstate Consolidated
Street R. Co. v. Massachusetts, 207 U. S.79 (1907).1 Other
authorities have perceived public schools as an "assimilative
force" by which diverse and conflicting elements in our society are brought together on a broad but common ground.
See, e. g., J.Dewey, Democracy and Education 26 (1929);
N. Edwards & H. Richey, The School in the American Social
Order 623-624 (2d ed. 1963). These perceptions of the public schools as inculcating fundamental values necessary to the
maintenance of a democratic political system have been confirmed by the observations of social scientists. See R. Daw7 As

San Antonio Independent School Dist. v. Rodriguez recognized,

there is no inconsistency between our recognition of the vital significance
of public education and our holding that access to education is not guaran-

teed by the Constitution. 411 U. S., at 30-35.

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion of the Court

441 U. S.

son & K. Prewitt, Political Socialization 146-167 (1969);
R. Hess & J. Torney, The Development of Political Attitudes
in Children 114, 158-171, 217-220 (1967); V. Key, Public
Opinion and American Democracy 323-343 (1961).1
Within the public school system, teachers play a critical
part in developing students' attitude toward government and
understanding of the role of citizens in our society. Alone
among employees of the system, teachers are in direct, day-today contact with students both in the classrooms and in the
other varied activities of a modern school. In shaping the
students' experience to achieve educational goals, teachers by
necessity have wide discretion over the way the course material is communicated to students. They are responsible for
presenting and explaining the subject matter in a way that is
both. comprehensible and inspiring. No amount of standardization of teaching materials or lesson plans can eliminate
the personal qualities a teacher brings to bear in achieving
these goals. Further, a teacher serves as a role model for his
students, exerting a subtle but important influence over their

8The curricular requirements of New York's public school system reflect
some of the ways a public school system promotes the development of the
understanding that is prerequisite to intelligent participation in the
democratic process. The schools are required to provide instruction "to
promote a spirit of patriotic and civic service and obligation and to foster
in the children of the state moral and intellectual qualities which are
essential in preparing to meet the obligations of citizenship in peace or in
war ... ." N. Y. Educ. Law § 801 (1) (McKinney 1969). Flag and other
patriotic exercises also are prescribed, as loyalty is a characteristic of
citizenship essential to the preservation of a country. § 802 (McKinney
1969 and Supp. 1978-1979). In addition, required courses include classes
in civics, United States and New York history, and principles of American
government. §§ 3204 (3) (a) (1), (2) (McKinney 1970).
Although private schools also are bound by most of these requirements,
the State has a stronger interest in ensuring that the schools it most
directly controls, and for which it bears the cost, are as effective as
possible in teaching these courses.

AMBACH v. NORWICK
68

Opinion of the Court

perceptions and values. Thus, through both the presentation
of course materials and the example he sets, a teacher has an
opportunity to influence the attitudes of students toward government, the political process, and a citizen's social responsibilities.'
This influence is crucial to the continued good
health of a democracy.10
Furthermore, it is clear that all public school teachers, and
not just those responsible for teaching the courses most
directly related to government, history, and civic duties, should
9

Although the findings of scholars who have written on the subject are
not conclusive, they generally reinforce the common-sense judgment, and
the experience of most of us, that a teacher exerts considerable influence
over the development of fundamental social attitudes in students, including
those attitudes which in the broadest sense of the term may be viewed as
political. See, e. g., R. Dawson & K. Prewitt, Political Socialization
158-167 (1969); R. Hess & J. Torney, The Development of Political
Attitudes in Children 162-163, 217-218 (1967). Cf. Note, Aliens' Right
to Teach: Political Socialization and the Public Schools, 85 Yale L. J. 90,
99-104 (1975).
10 Appellees contend that restriction of an alien's freedom to teach in
public schools is contrary to principles of diversity of thought and
academic freedom embodied in the First Amendment. See also id., at
106-109. We think that the attempt to draw an analogy between choice
of citizenship and political expression or freedom of association is wide
of the mark, as the argument would bar any effort by the State to promote
particular values and attitudes toward government. Section 3001 (3)
does not inhibit appellees from expressing freely their political or social
views or from associating with whomever they please. Cf. Givhan v.
Western Line Consol. School Dist., 439 U. S. 410, 415-416 (1979); Mt.
Healthy City Board of Education v. Doyle, 429 U. S. 274 (1977); Pickering v. Board of Education, 391 U. S. 563 (1968). Nor are appellees
discouraged from joining with others to advance particular political ends.
Cf. Shelton v. Tucker, 364 U. S. 479 (1960). The only asserted liberty
of appellees withheld by the New York statute is the opportunity to
teach in the State's schools so long as they elect not to become citizens
of this country. This is not a liberty that is accorded constitutional
protection.

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion of the Court

441 U. S.

help fulfill the broader function of the public school system."
Teachers, regardless of their specialty, may be called upon
to teach other subjects, including those expressly dedicated
to political and social subjects. 2 More importantly, a State
properly may regard all teachers as having an obligation
to promote civic virtues and understanding in their classes,
regardless of the subject taught. Certainly a State also may
take account of a teacher's function as an example for students, which exists independently of particular classroom subjects. In light of the foregoing considerations, we think it
clear that public school teachers come well within the "governmental function" principle recognized in Sugarman and Foley.
Accordingly, the Constitution requires only that a citizenship
requirement applicable to teaching in the public schools bear
a rational relationship to a legitimate state interest. See
Massachusetts Board of Retirement v. Murgia, 427 U. S. 307,
314 (1976).
III
As the legitimacy of the State's interest in furthering the
educational goals outlined above is undoubted, it remains only
to consider whether § 3001 (3) bears a rational relationship
to this interest. The restriction is carefully framed to serve its
purpose, as it bars from teaching only those aliens who have
demonstrated their unwillingness to obtain United States citizenship.13 Appellees, and aliens similarly situated, in effect
have chosen to classify themselves. They prefer to retain
citizenship in a foreign country with the obligations it entails
11 At the primary school level, for which both appellees sought certification, teachers are responsible for all of the basic curriculum.
12 In New York, for example, all certified teachers, including those in the
secondary schools, are required to be available for up to five hours of
teaching a week in subjects outside their specialty. 8 N. Y. C. R. R.

§ 80.2 (e) (1978).
13 See n. 2, supra.

AMBACH v. NORWICK
68

BLACKMUN,

J., dissenting

of primary duty and loyalty. 4 They have rejected the open
invitation extended to qualify for eligibility to teach by
applying for citizenship in this country. The people of New
York, acting through their elected representatives, have made
a judgment that citizenship should be a qualification for
teaching the young of the State in the public schools, and
§ 3001 (3) furthers that judgment."
Reversed.
with whom MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN, MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL, and MR. JUSTICE STEVENS join,
MR. JUSTICE BLACKMUN,

dissenting.

Once again the Court is asked to rule upon the constitutionality of one of New York's many statutes that impose a
14 As our cases have emphasized, resident aliens pay taxes, serve in the
Armed Forces, and have made significant contributions to our country in
private and public endeavors. See In re Griffiths, 413 U. S., at 722;
Sugarman v. Dougall, 413 U. S., at 645; Graham v.. Richardson, 403 U. S.
365, 376 (1971). No doubt many of them, and we do not exclude
appellees, would make excellent public school teachers. But the legislature, having in mind the importance of education to state and local
governments, see Brown v. Board of Education, 347 U. S. 483, 493 (1954),
may determine eligibility for the key position in discharging that function
on the assumption that generally persons who are citizens, or who have
not declined the opportunity to seek United States citizenship, are better
qualified than are those who have elected to remain aliens. We note in
this connection that regulations promulgated pursuant to § 3001 (3) do
provide for situations where a particular alien's special qualifications as a
teacher outweigh the policy primarily served by the statute. See 8 N. Y.
C. R. R. § 80.2 (i) (1) (1978). The appellants inform us, however, that
the authority conferred by this regulation has not been exercised. Brief
for Appellants 7 n. *.
15 Appellees argue that the State cannot rationally exclude aliens from
teaching positions and yet permit them to vote for and sit on certain
local school boards. We note, first, that the State's legislature has not
expressly endorsed this policy. Rather, appellants as an administrative
matter have interpreted the statute governing New York City's unique
community sohool boards, N. Y. Educ. Law § 2590-c (4) (McKinney Supp.
1978-1979), to permit aliens who are the parents of public school students

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
BLACKMUN,

J., dissenting

441 U. S.

requirement of citizenship upon a person before that person
may earn his living in a specified occupation.' These New
York statutes, for the most part, have their origin in the
frantic and overreactive days of the First World War when
attitudes of parochialism and fear of the foreigner were the
order of the day. This time we are concerned with the right
to teach in the public schools of the State, at the elementary
and secondary levels, and with the citizenship requirement
that N. Y. Educ. Law § 3001 (3) (McKinney 1970), quoted by
the Court, ante, at 70 n. 1, imposes.'
As the Court acknowledges, ante, at 72, its decisions regarding the permissibility of statutory classifications concerning
aliens "have not formed an unwavering line over the years." '

Thus, just last Term, in Foley v. Connelie, 435 U. S. 291
(1978), the Court upheld against equal protection challenge
the New York statute limiting appointment of members of
the state police force to citizens of the United States. The

touchstone, the Court indicated, was that citizenship may be
to participate in these boards. See App. 27, 29. We also may assume,
without having to decide, that there is a rational basis for a distinction
between teachers and board members based on their respective responsibilities.

Although possessing substantial responsibility for the administra-

tion of the schools, board members teach no classes, and rarely if ever are
known or identified by the students.
IOne of the appellees in Nyquist v. Mauclet, 432 U. S. 1 (1977),
submitted a list of the New York statutes that required citizenship, or a
declaration of intent to become a citizen, for no fewer than 37 occupations.
Brief for Appellee Mauclet, 0. T. 1976, No. 76-208,'pp. 19-22, nn. 8-44,
inclusive. Some of those statutes have been legislatively repealed or
modified, or judicially invalidated. Others are still in effect. Among the
latter are those relating to the occupations of inspector, certified shorthand
reporter, funeral director, masseur, physical therapist, and animal technician.
2 This particular citizenship requirement had its origin in 1918 N. Y.
Laws, ch. 158, effective Apr. 4, 1918.
3"To be sure, the course of decisions protecting the employment rights
of resident aliens has not been an unswerving one." In re Griffiths, 413
U. S.717, 720 (1973).

AMBACH v. NORWICK

68

BLACKMUN,

J., dissenting

a relevant qualification for fulfilling " 'important nonelective
executive, legislative, and judicial positions' held by 'officers
who participate directly in the formulation, execution, or review of broad public policy.'" Id., at 296, quoting Sugarman
v. Dougall, 413 U. S. 634, 647 (1973). For such positions, a
State need show only some rational relationship between the
interest sought to be protected and the limiting classification.
Police, it then was felt, were clothed with authority to exercise
an almost infinite variety of discretionary powers that could
seriously affect members of the public. 435 U. S., at 297.
They thus fell within the category of important officers who
participate directly in the execution of "broad public policy."
The Court was persuaded that citizenship bore a rational
relationship to the special demands of police positions, and
that a State therefore could constitutionally confine that
public responsibility to citizens of the United States. Id., at
300. The propriety of making citizenship a qualification for
a narrowly defined class of positions was also recognized, in
passing, in Sugarman v. Dougall, 413 U. S., at 647, and in
Nyquist v. Mauclet, 432 U. S. 1, 11 (1977).
On the other hand, the Court frequently has invalidated a
state provision that denies a resident alien the right to engage
in specified occupational activity: Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118
U. S. 356 (1886) (ordinance applied so as to prevent Chinese
subjects from engaging in the laundry business); Truax v.
Raich, 239 U. S. 33 (1915) (statute requiring an employer's
work force to be composed of not less than 80% "qualified
electors or native-born citizens"); Takahashi v. Fish & Game
Comm'n, 334 U. S. 410 (1948) (limitation of commercial
fishing licenses to persons not "ineligible to citizenship");
Sugarman v. Dougall, supra (New York statute relating to
permanent positions in the "competitive class" of the state
civil service); In re Griffiths, 413 U. S. 717 (1973) (the practice
of law); Nelson v. Miranda, 413 U. S. 902 (1973), sununarily
aff'g 351 F. Supp. 735 (Ariz. 1972) (social service worker

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
BLACKMUN,

J., dissenting

441 U. S.

and teacher); Examining Board v. Flores de Otero, 426 U. S.
572 (1976) (the practice of civil engineering). See also
Nyquist v. Mauclet, supra (New York statute barring certain
resident aliens from state financial assistance for higher
education).
Indeed, the Court has held more than once that state classifications based on alienage are "inherently suspect and
subject to close judicial scrutiny."

Graham v. Richardson,

403 U. S. 365, 372 (1971). See Examining Board v. Flores
de Otero, 426 U. S., at 601-602; In re Griffiths, 413 U. S., at
721; Sugarman v. Dougall, 413 U. S., at 642; Nyquist v.
Mauclet, 432 U. S., at 7. And "[a]lienage classifications by a
State that do not withstand this stringent examination cannot
stand." Ibid.
There is thus a line, most recently recognized in Foley v.
Connelie, between those employments that a State in its
wisdom constitutionally may restrict to United States citizens,
on the one hand, and those employments, on the other, that
the State may not deny to resident aliens. For me, the present
case falls on the Sugarman-Griffiths-Floresde Otero-Mauclet
side of that line, rather than on the narrowly isolated Foley
side.
We are concerned here with elementary and secondary
education in the public schools of New York State. We are
not concerned with teaching at the college or graduate levels.
It seems constitutionally absurd, to say the least, that in these
lower levels of public education a Frenchman may not teach
French or, indeed, an Englishwoman may not teach the
grammar of the English language. The appellees, to be sure,
are resident "aliens" in the technical sense, but there is not a
word in the record that either appellee does not have roots in
this country or is unqualified in any way, other than the
imposed requirement of citizenship, to teach. Both appellee
Norwick and appellee Dachinger have been in this country for

AMBACH v. NORWICK
68

BLACKMUN,

J., dissenting

over 12 years. Each is married to a United States citizen.
Each currently meets all the requirements, other than citizenship, that New York has specified for certification as a public
school teacher. Tr. of Oral Arg. 4.' Each is willing, if required, to subscribe to an oath to support the Constitutions
of the United States and of New York.5 Each lives in an
American community, must obey its laws, and must pay all
of the taxes citizens are obligated to pay. Appellees, however,
have hesitated to give up their respective British and Finnish
citizenships, just as lawyer Fre Le Poole Griffiths, the subject
of In re Griffiths, supra, hesitated to renounce her Netherlands
citizenship, although married to a citizen of the United States
and a resident of Connecticut.
But the Court, to the disadvantage of appellees, crosses the
line from Griffiths to Foley by saying, ante, at 75, that the
"distinction between citizens and aliens, though ordinarily
irrelevant to private activity, is fundamental to the definition
and government of a State." It then concludes that public
school teaching "constitutes a governmental function," ibid.,
and that public school teachers may be regarded as performing
a task that goes "to the heart of representative government." Ante, at 76. The Court speaks of the importance of
public schools in the preparation of individuals for participation as citizens, and in the preservation of the values on which
4Appellee Norwick is a summa cum laude graduate of a Massachusetts
college and received an A average in full-time graduate work in the State
University of New York at Albany. She has taught both in this country
and in Great Britain.
Appellee Dachinger is a cum laude graduate, with a major in German, of
Lehman College, a unit of the City University of New York, and possesses a master's degree in Early Childhood Education from that institution.
She has taught at a day-care center in the Bronx.
Each appellee, thus, has received and excelled in educational training the
State of New York itself offers.
I See In re Griffiths, 413 U. S., at 726 n. 18.

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
BLACKMUN,

J., dissenting

441 U.S.

our society rests.' After then observing that teachers play a
critical part in all this, the Court holds that New York's citizenship requirement is constitutional because it bears a
rational relationship to the State's interest in furthering these
educational goals.
I perceive a number of difficulties along the easy road the
Court takes to this conclusion:
First, the New York statutory structure itself refutes the
argument. Section 3001 (3), the very statute at issue. here,
provides for exceptions with respect to alien teachers "employed pursuant to regulations adopted by the commissioner
of education permitting such employment." Section 3001-a
(McKinney 1970) provides another exception for persons ineligible for United States citizenship because of oversubscribed
quotas. Also, New York is unconcerned with any citizenship
qualification for teachers in the private schools of the State,
even though the record indicates that about 18% of the pupils
at the elementary and secondary levels attend private schools.
The education of those pupils seems not to be inculcated with
something less than what is desirable for citizenship and what
the Court calls an influence "crucial to the continued good
health of a democracy." Ante, at 79. The State apparently,
under § 3001 (3), would not hesitate to employ an alien
teacher while he waits to attain citizenship, even though he
may fail ever to attain it. And the stark fact that the State
permits some aliens to sit on certain local school boards, N. Y.
Educ. Law § 2590-c (4) (McKinney Supp. 1978-1979), reveals
how shallow and indistinct is New York's line of demarcation
between citizenship and noncitizenship. The Court's at6 One, of course, can agree with this observation.

One may concede,
also, that public schools are an "'assimilative force' by which diverse and
conflicting elements in our society are brought together on a broad but
common ground," ante, at 77, and that the inculcation of fundamental
values by our public schools is necessary to the maintenance of a democratic political system.

AMBACH v. NORWICK
68

BLACKMUN,

J., dissenting

temited rationalization of this fact, ante, at 81-82, n. 15,
hardly extinguishes the influence school board members, including these otherwise "disqualified" resident aliens, possess in
school administration, in the selection of faculty, and in the
approval of textbooks and instructional materials.
Second, the New York statute is all-inclusive in its disqualifying provisions: "No person shall be employed or authorized
to teach in the public schools of the state who is . . . [n]ot

a citizen." It sweeps indiscriminately. It is "neither narrowly confined nor precise in its application," nor limited to
the accomplishment of substantial state interests. Sugarman
v. Dougall, 413 U. S., at 643. See Note, Aliens' Right to
Teach: Political Socialization and the Public Schools, 85 Yale
L. J. 90, 109-111 (1975).
Third, the New York classification is irrational. Is it better
to employ a poor citizen teacher than an excellent resident
alien teacher? Is it preferable to have a citizen who has
never seen Spain or a Latin American country teach Spanish
to eighth graders and to deny that opportunity to a resident
alien who may have lived for 20 years in the culture of Spain
or Latin America? The State will know how to select its
teachers responsibly, wholly apart from citizenship, and can
do so selectively and intelligently.! That is the way to
7 In

In re Griffiths the Court significantly has observed:

"Connecticut has wide freedom to gauge on a case-by-case basis the
fitness of an applicant to practioe law.

Connecticut can, and does, require
appropriate training and familiarity with Connecticut law. Apart from
such tests of competence, it requires, a new lawyer to take both an
'attorney's oath' to perform his functions faithfully and honestly and a
'commissioner's oath' to 'support the constitution of the United States, and
the constitution of the state of Connecticut.' Appellant has indicated her
willingness and ability to subscribe to the substance of both oaths, and
Connecticut may quite properly conduct a character investigation to insure
in any given case 'that an applicant is not one who "swears to an oath
pro forma while declaring or manifesting his disagreement with or indifference to the oath." Bond v. Floyd, 385 U. S. 116, 132.' Law Students

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
BLACKMUN, J., dissenting

441 U.S.

accomplish the desired result. An artificial citizenship bar is
not a rational way. It is, instead, a stultifying provision.
The route to "diverse and conflicting elements" and their being
"brought together on a broad but common ground," which the
Court so emphasizes, ante, at 77, is hardly to be achieved by
disregarding some of the diverse elements that are available,
competent, and contributory to the richness of our society and
of the education it could provide.
Fourth, it is logically impossible to differentiate between
this case concerning teachers and In re Griffiths concerning
attorneys. If a resident alien may not constitutionally be
barred from taking a state bar examination and thereby
becoming qualified to practice law in the courts of a State, how
is one to comprehend why a resident alien may constitutionally be barred from teaching in the elementary and secondary
levels of a State's public schools? One may speak proudly of
the role model of the teacher, of his ability to mold young
minds, of his inculcating force as to national ideals, and of his
profound influence in the impartation of our society's values.
Are the attributes of an attorney.any the less? He represents
us in our critical courtroom controversies even when citizenship and loyalty may be questioned. He stands as an officer
of every court in which he practices. He is responsible for
strict adherence to the announced and implied standards of
professional, conduct and to the requirements of evolving
ethical codes, and for honesty and integrity in his professional
Research Council v. Wadmond, 401 U. S., at 164. Moreover, once admitted
to the bar, lawyers are subject to continuing scrutiny by the organized bar
and the courts. In addition to discipline for unprofessional conduct, the
range of post-admission sanctions extends from judgments for contempt to
criminal prosecutions and disbarment. In sum, the Committee simply has
not established that it must exclude all aliens from the practice of law in
order to vindicate its undoubted interest in high professional standards."
413 U. S., at 725-727 (footnotes omitted).

AMBACH v. NORWICK
68

BLACKMUN,

J., dissenting

and personal life. Despite the almost continuous criticism
leveled at the legal profession, he, too, is an influence in legislation, in the community, and in the role-model figure that the
professional person enjoys.8 The Court specifically recognized
this in In re Grifiths:
"Lawyers do indeed occupy professional positions of
responsibility and influence that impose on them duties
correlative with their vital right of access to the courts.
Moreover, by virtue of their professional aptitudes and
natural interests, lawyers have been leaders in government throughout the history of our country." 413 U. S.,
at 729.1
If an attorney has a constitutional right to take a bar
examination and practice law, despite his being a resident
alien, it is impossible for me to see why a resident alien, otherwise completely competent and qualified, as these appellees

concededly are, is constitutionally disqualified from teaching
in the public schools of the great State of New York.

The

1See also Stockton v. Ford, 11 H6w. 232, 247 (1851) ; Hickman v. Taylor,
329 U. S. 495, 514-515 (1947) (concurring opinion); Schware v. Board of
Bar Examiners, 353 U. S. 232, 247 (1957) (concurring opinion); In re
Sawyer, 360 U. S. 622, 668 (1959) (dissenting opinion); J. Story, Miscellaneous Writings, Value and Importance of Legal Studies 503-549 (W.
Story ed. 1972); Stone, The Public Influence of the Bar, 48 Harv. L. Rev.
1 (1934); W. Brennan, The Responsibilities of the Legal Profession, Address before the Law School of Harvard University (1967); A. de Tocqueville, Democracy in America 321-331 (Schocken ed. 1961); J. Rogers, The
Lawyer in American Public Life, in Morrison Foundation Lectures'41, 61
(1940).
9 In order to keep attorneys on the nongovernmental side of the
classification line, the Court continued:
"Yet, they are not officials of government by virtue of being lawyers. Nor
does the status of holding a license to practice law place one so close to
the core of the political process as to make him a formulator of government policy." 413 U. S., at 729.

90

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
BLACKMUN,

J., dissenting

441 U. S.

District Court expressed it well and forcefully when it observed
that New York's exclusion "seems repugnant to the very heritage the State is seeking to inculcate." Norwick v. Nyquist,
417 F. Supp. 913, 922 (SDNY 1976).
I respectfully dissent.

