446

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Statement of the Case.

330 U. S.

AMERICAN STEVEDORES, INC. v. PORELLO
NO. 69.

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND CIRCUIT.*

Argued December 11, 12, 1946.-Decided March 10, 1947.
1. The Public Vessels Act, 43 Stat. 1112, which provides that a "libel
in personam in admiralty may be brought against the United
States . . . for damages caused by a public vessel of the United

States," authorizes a libel against the United States to recover
damages for death or personal injuries caused by a public vessel
of the United States. Pp. 450-454, 458-460.
2. Mere acceptance by an injured longshoreman of compensation
from his employer pursuant to the Longshoremen's and Harbor
Workers' Compensation Act, 33 U. S. C. §§ 901-950, without an
award by a deputy commissioner under § 19, does not preclude the
longshoreman from thereafter electing to sue a third-party 'tortfeasor for injuries suffered while working on a vessel. Pp. 454-456.
3. A stevedoring contract being a maritime contract, an admiralty
court has jurisdiction to grant indemnity under an indemnity
provision thereof. P. 456.
4. A district court awarded indemnity to the extent of half of the
damages under an ambiguous indemnity provision of a stevedoring
contract without admitting evidence as to the intention of the
parties or making any clear finding as to the meaning of the contract. On appeal, the circuit cohrt of appeals held that the
stevedoring contractor should indemnify the owner completely.
On review in this Court, the case is remanded to the district court
for determination of the meaning of the contract, since the district court may have the benefit of such evidence as there is upon
the intention of the parties. P.p. 457-458.
153 F. 2d 605, affirmed in part and reversed in part.

No. 69. A longshoreman injured while working on a
public vessel of the United States as an employee of a
corporation engaged in loading the vessel under a stevedoring contract with the United States filed a libel to recover damages from the United States under the Public
*Together with No. 514, United States v. Lauro, Administratrix,
on certificate from the same Court.

AMERICAN STEVEDORES v. PORELLO.
446

447

Statement of the Case.

Vessels Act, 46 U. S. C. § 781 et seq. The District Court
overruled the Government's exceptions to the libel. 53
F. Supp. 569. The Government then impleaded the
stevedoring contractor charging it with fault and setting
forth an indemnity provision of the contract. The contractor answered the libel, denying fault and asserting as
an affirmative defense that, by accepting compensation
payments under the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers'
Act, 33 U. S. C. §§ 901-950, the longshoreman had lost
his right to sue a third-party tortfeasor. The District
Court held that the longshoreman was not barred from
maintaining the action, and that both the United States
and the contractor were negligent, awarded damages from
the United States, and awarded the United States contribution from the contractor as a joint tortfeasor to the
extent of half the damages less the compensation payments received by the longshoreman.' On cross appeals
by the United States and the contractor, the Circuit Court
of Appeals held that the contractor was bound by the
indemnity provision of the stevedoring contract to make
the United States completely whole and affirmed the decree with that modification. 153 F. 2d 605. This Court
granted , certiorari. 328 U. S. 827. Affirmed in part, reversed in part,and remanded, p. 458.
No. 514. A District Court awarded damages against
the United States undeif the Public Vessels Act, 46 U. S. C.
§ 781 et seq., for the death of a longshoreman resulting
from injuries sustained while working aboard a vessel
owned by the United States. 63 F. Supp. 538. On appeal, the Circuit Court of Appeals, 157 F. 2d 416, certified to this Court a question which is answered as follows:
"The word 'damages' as used in 46 U. S. C. § 781 includes
damages under §§ 130-134 of the Decedent Estate Law
of the State of New York recoverable by a personal representative because of the death of a human being."
P. 460.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

Edward Ash argued the cause and filed a brief for petitioner in No. 69.
J. Frank Staley argued the cause for the United States.
With him on the brief were Acting Solicitor General
Washington, Assistant Attorney General Sonnett, Paul
A. Sweeney and W. Leavenworth Colby.
Jacob Rassner argued the cause and filed briefs for
Porello and Lauro.
MR. JUSTICE REED

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Porello, a longshoreman, was injured on Sept. 23, 1942,
while working in the hold of the U. S. S. Thomas Stone, a
public vessel of the United States. His employer, American Stevedores, Inc. (called American hereinafter), was
engaged in loading the vessel under a stevedoring contract
with the United States. Within two weeks of the accident which caused the injuries, American's insurance carrier, in compliance with § 14 of the Longshoremen's and
Harbor Workers' Compensation Act,1 33 U. S. C. §§ 901950, and without the compulsion of an award of compensation by a deputy commissioner under § 19, began compensation payments to Porello, who negotiated the checks
he received. In March of 1943 Porello gave notice in
accordance with § 33 (a) of election to sue the United
States as a third-party tortfeasor rather than to receive
compensation. In the same month he filed a libel,
amended in November, 1943, to recover damages from the
United States under the Public Vessels Act of 1925,' 46
1 44

Stat. 1424,as ameuded by 52 Stat. 1164.

243 Stat. 1112:
the a libel in personam in admiralty may be brought against
the United States, or a petition impleading the United States, for

damages caused by a public vessel of the United States, and for
compensation for towage and salvage services, including contract
salvage, rendered to a public vessel of the United States ...

AMERICAN STEVEDORES v. PORELLO.
446

449

. Opinion of the Court.

U. S' C. § 781 et seq., for the injuries to his person sustained
in the accident. Exceptions to 'the libel being overruled,
the United States answered, denying fault on its part and
claiming sovereign immunity from suit. Later, by a petition charging American with fault and setting forth an
indemnity provision of the stevedoring contract, the
United States impleaded American.' American then
answered the libel, denying fault and asserting as an affirmative defense that, by accepting compensation payments, Porello had lost his right to sue a third-party
tortfeasor.
The District Court held that Porello was not barred
from maintaining the action. At trial it appeared that
a beam lying athwart a hatch had fallen into the hold and
struck Porello, causing the injuries complained of. The
court held that the United States was negligent in not
providing a locking device on the end of the beam, and held
that -American was negligent through its foreman, whose
orders to the operator of a cargo boom caused the beam to
be dislodged. Porello was awarded damages from the
United States, the United States to receive contribution
from American as a joint tortfeasor to the extent of half
the damages less the compensation payments received by
Porello. On cross appeals by the United States and
American the Circuit Court of Appeals held that American was bound by the indemnity provision of the stevedori ng contract to make the United States completely
whole. With that modification it affirmed the decree
below. 153 F. 2d 605. The important issue in this proceeding'is whether the Public Vessels Act makes the United
States liable for damages on account of personal injuries.
The Circuit Court of Appeals thought that this question
was decided by the CanadianAviator case, but since the
3

See Rule 56, Rules of Practice for U. S. Courts in Admiralty and
Maritime Jurisdiction.
ICanadianAviator, Ltd. v. United States, 324 U. S. 215.

450

0OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

issue was rt squarely posed in that case we granted
certiorari in order to determine it at this time. 328
U. S. 827.
The Public Vessels Act provides that a "libel in personam in admiralty may be brought against the United
States . . . for damages caused by a public vessel of the
United States . . . ."
Petitioner argues that the Act
only provides a remedy for damage to property. "Damages,". however, have historically been awarded both for
injury to property and injury to the person-a fact too
well-known to have been overlooked by the Congress in
enacting this statute.6 Nor is it easy to conceive any
reason, absent intent to the contrary, not to have inserted
the word "property" in the statute, an obvious method of
imposing the limitation for which the petitioner here contends. Petitioner nonetheless argues that the legislative
history of the statute conclusively shows that the congressional intent was to limit redress to property damage.
The~history of the Act may be briefly detailed. Starting
in 1920 various bills were introduced which provided for
liability of the Government to suit for damages caused by
its vessels. 7 We need only consider, however, the bills that
were pending in the 68th Congress by which the present
Act was passed: H. R. 6989, H. R. 9075 and H. R. 9535.
The first provided for suits against the United States "for
damages caused by collision by a public vessel." The
second, designed as an amendment to the Suits in Ad543 Stat. 1112, 46 U. S. C. § 781.
6 It might be noted here that there is a distinction between damage
and damages. Black's Law Dictionary cautions that the word "damage," meaning "Loss, injury, or deterioration," is "to be distinguished
from its plural,--'damages,'--which means a compensation in money
for a loss or damage."
7
H. R. 15977, 66th Cong., 3d Seas.; H. R. 6256, 67th Cong., 1st
Sess.; H..R. 6989, 68th Cong., 1st Seas.; H. R. 9075, 68th Cong.,
1st Seas.; H. R. 9535, 68th Cong., 1st Sems.

AMERICAN STEVEDORES v. PORELLO.
446

451

Opinion of the Court.

miralty Act, and supported by the Maritime Law Association of the United States,8 would have amended that act
so that it would not be limited to vessels operated by the
Government as merchant vessels, and would thus have
made the United States unquestionably liable to suit for
personal injuries caused by public vessels." This bill
never reached the floor of Congress. The third bill,
H. R. 9535, was enacted and became the present Public
Vessels Act. Although designed as "a substitute for
H. R. 6989," '0 it omitted the words "by collision" which
would have limited the liability of the United States to
damages resulting from collisions by public vessels. The
only discussion of any significance to the present inquiry
related to the last of these bills. It is true, as petitioner
points out, that the proponent of the bill in the House,
Mr. Underhill, said, when the bill was introduced: "The
bill I have introduced simply allows suits in admiralty to
be brought by owners of vessels whose property has been
damaged by collision or other fault of Government vessels
8

See Hearing before the Committee on the Judiciary of the House
of Representatives,. on H. R. 9075, 68th Cong., 1st Sess., May 21,
1924.
946 U. S. C. §§741, 742:
"No vessel owned by the United States . . .shall, in view of the
provision herein made for a libel in personam, be subject to

arrest or seizure by judicial process in the United States or its
possessions . .
"In cases where if such vessel were privately owned or operated,
or if such cargo were privately owned and possessed, a proceeding
in admiralty could be maintained at the time of the commencement
of the action herein provided for, a libel in personam may be brought
against the United States or against any corporation mentioned
in section 741 of this title, as the case may be, provided that such
vessel is employed as a merchant vessel or is a tugboat operated by
such corporation. . ....
Johnson v. Fleet Corporation, 280 U. S. 320; Brady.v. Roosevelt
.S.
Co., 317 U. S.575.
10 S. Rep. No. 941, 68th Cong., 2d Sess.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

and Government agents."" Further, on inquiry as to
whether suit could be brought only where blame was
charged to the Government, he answered: "Not entirely;
where a man's property is damaged, he can bring a suit." 12
These statements were not, however, answers to questions
whether the Act would provide a remedy for injury to the
person. as well as to property, nor does it appear that the
speaker was at the time attentive to such possible
distinctions. It is also true that the Committee report
said that "the chief purpose of this bill is to grant
private owners of vessels and of merchandise a right of
action when their vessels or goods have been damaged as
the result of a collision with any Government-owned vessel." 1' However, in the same report a letter from the
Attorney General was incorporated, which, while it was
addressed to the predecessor bill, H. R. 6989, serves, in the
absence of contradiction by the report, as an indication of
the Committee's opinion on the intended effect of the Act.
That letter explicitly stated that "The proposed bill intends to give the same relief against the Government for
damages caused . . . by its public vessels . . . as is now

given against the United States in the operation of its merchant vessels, as provided by the suits in admiralty act of
March 9, 1920." As the right to sue for personal injuries
under the Suits in Admiralty Act was clear, it may be inferred, at least as strongly as the opposite is implied by
Mr. Underhill's remarks, that the Committee understood
11'66 Cong. Rec. 2087.
12 66 Cong. Rec. 2088.

18 S.Rep. No. 941, 68th Cong., 2d Sess., p. 1. Of course the chief
purpose of the bill was to provide a remedy for those who chiefly
urged the bill-the vessel owners. But the committee, in sostating,
-cannot be taken to have made that purpose the only one. By that
token the purpose would be to provide a remedy only for collision
damages, a limitation clearly discarded by omitting the words "by
collision" from the Act. Canadian Aviator, Ltd. v. United States,
supra,n. 4.

AMERICAN STEVEDORES v. PORELLO.
446

453

Opinion of the Court.

that the Act would provide a remedy to persons suffering
personal injuries as well as property damage.1' Moreover, when the bill reached the floor of the Senate there
was not the least indication that the members of that
body believed that the Act limited relief to owners of
damaged property.'
The passage of the Suits in Admiralty Act, the Public
'Vessels Act, and the Federal Tort"Claims Act 16 attests
to the growing feeling of Congress that the United States
should put aside its sovereign armor in cases where federal employees have tortiously caused personal injury or
property damage. To hold now that the Public VesSee note 9, suprav
25 So the only pertinent comments follow, 66 Cong. Rec. 3560:
"MR. ROOINSON. I think thb Senator from'Delaware should state
-briefly to the Senate the effect of the bill. It seems to be a measure
of qonsiderdble importance.
!'MR.BAYARD. Mr. President, the Senator from Arkansas is quite
right; it is a measure of great importance. There are continuous
:applications being made to the Claims Committee of both Houses
for the consideration of bills to reimburse people who have suffered
damage from maritime- accidents in which United States vessels are
concerned, to enable them to present their suits in the various district
courts. In this last Conigress there were nearly 200 such claim bills
introduced in the two Houses..
"... It would give'a person aggrieved because of an accident by
reason of the shortcQmihgs of a United States ship the right to go into
a district court and prosecute his action. It provides for the appearande of the Attorney General of the United States, and all maritime
accidents of any kind resulting from collision, and so on, are taken
.care of. A'great deal of money would be saved to the Government.
"Incidentally, .the bill would accomplish something which should
have been.done in this country ,a:
long time ago. It would give an
"opportunity to do justice when' Federal employees have committed
an offense against an individual....
"MR.-ROBINSON. If enacted, it would relieve Congress of the consideration of a great many measures in the nature of private claims.
"MR. BAYARD. All claims of this'nature."
1660 Stat. 812, §§ 401--424.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
330 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

sels Act does not provide a remedy against the United
States for personal injuries would in the future only
throw this form of maritime action under the Federal
Tort Claims Act; for that Act excepts from its coverage
"Any claim for which a remedy is provided by the Act . . .
of March 3, 1925 [The Public Vessels Act] (U. S. C.,
title 46, sees. 781-790, inclusive) .
" We cannot believe that the Public Vessels Act, read. in the light of its
legislative history evinces a Congressional intent only to
provide a remedy to the owners of damaged property.
This determination does not dispose of all the issues
raised by the Porello case. When impleaded by the
United States in the Trial court, American, the. petitioner
here, pleaded as an affirmative defense that Porello, having
accepted compensation payments from American, lost
whatever right of action he had against the United States
as a third-party tortfeasor. The petitioner admits that
§ 33 (b) of the Longshoremen's Act was amended in 1938
so that mere acceptance of compensation, without an
award, does not operate as an assignment to the employer
of the injured employee's cause of action against a thirdparty tortfeasor, a conclusion which courts had reached
under the former wording of the Act. 8 But it contends
that the amendment did no more,. and that acceptance
of compensation still operates as a conclusive election
1...

I Id., § 421.
18 The statute formerly provided, 44 Stat. 1440:

"Acceptance of such compensation shall operate as an assignment
to the employer of all right of the person entitled to compensation
to recover damages against such third person, whether or not the person entitled to compensation has notified the deputy commissioner
of his election."
Under this form of the statute, courts had held that acceptance
of compensation precluded the employee from suing a third-party
tortfeasor. &iortino v. Dimon S. S. Corp., 39 F. 2d 210, aff'd 44 F.
2d 1019; Toomey v. Waterman S. S. Corp., 123 F. 2d 718; The

AMERICAN STEVEDORES v. PORELLO.
446

455

Opinion of the Court.

not to sue. It is quite clear that mere acceptance
of compensation is not the kind of election for which provision is made by § 33 (a) of the Act, which provides for
notice of intention to the deputy commissioner, 9 so the
argument is technically imperfect. But in any event,
election not to sue a third party. and assignment of the
cause of action are two sides of the same coin. Surely
the Act was never intended and has never been held
to provide that after acceptance of compensation, and
until an award, neither employer nor employee could sue
the third-party tortfeasor. If so held, an employer who
was not responsible over to the third party might lose his
chance to recoup compensation payments from the third
party, while the third party might escape all liability.
Americanin the unusual circumstances of this case, could
have .protected itself by controverting the employee's
In this way it could probright to receive compensation.'
ably have forced an award and the consequent assignment
of the right of action to itself.
Congress has provided that unless an employer controverts the right of the employee to receive compensation,
Nako Maru, 101 F. "2d 716; Freader v. Cities Service Transp., Co.,
14 F. Supp. 456. Contra: Johnsen v. American-HawaiianS. S. Co.,
98 F. 2d 847.
As amended the statute provides, 52 Stat. 1168:
"Acceptance of such compensation under an award in a compensation: order filed by the deputy commissioner shall operate as an
assignment to the employer of all right of the person' entitled to
compensation to recover damages against such third person."
1133 U. S. C. § 933 (a):
"If on account of a disability or death for which compensation is
payable under this chapter the person entitled to such compensation
determines that some person other than the employer is liable in
damages, he may elect, by giving notice to the deputy commissioner
in such manner as the commission may provide, to receive such compensation or to recover damages against such third person."
33 U. S. C. §914 (d) and (h).
2See

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

he must begin payments within two weeks of the injury.'
The employee thus receives compensation payments quite
soon after his injury by force of the Act. Yet the Act
does not put a time limitation upon the period during
which an employee must elect to receive compensation or
to sue, save the general limitation of one year upon the
time to make a claim for compensation.'
The apparent
purpose of the Act is to provide payments during the
period while the employee is unable to earn, when they are
sorely needed, without compelling him to give up his right
to sue a third party when he is least fit to make a judgment
of election. For these reasons we think that mere acceptance of compensation payments does not preclude an
injured employee from thereafter electing to sue a thirdparty tortfeasor.
American further argues that the court below, as an
admiralty court, did not have jurisdiction of the inde~inity provision of the stevedoring contract, and that therefore the decree granting full indemnity to the United
States from American was beyond its power. A stevedoring contract is maritime. Atlantic Transport Co. v.
Imbrovek, 234 U. S. 52, 62; The Muskegon, 275 F. 348.
And although admiralty jurisdiction over contracts partly
maritime and partly non-maritime in nature is doubtful,
the cases raising such doubts are concerned only with contracts for the performance of partly non-maritime activities. See The Richard Winslow, 71 F. 426; Pillsbury
Flour Mills Co. v. Interlake S. S. Co., 40 F. 2d 439. To
sever a contract provision for indemnity for damages arising out of the performance of wholly maritime activities
would only needlessly multiply litigation. Such a provision is a normal clause in contracts to act for others and no
more determines the nature of a contract than do conditions on the time and place of payment.
-133 U. S. C. § 914 (b), (e).
2233 U. S. C. § 913 (a).

AMERICAN STEVEDORES v. PORELLO.
446

457

Opinion of the Court.

Whether the indemnity provision was
rightly construed
by the court below is a more difficult question. It was
provided that:
"The Stevedore performing any service under this
schedule shall be responsible for any and all damage
or injury to persons and cargo while loading or otherwise handling or stowing the same, to any ship including its apparel and equipment, wharves, docks,
lighters, elevators, cars, and car-floats used in connection therewith, through the negligence or fault
of the Stevedore, his employees and servants."
The Stevedore, American, contends that it is liable to
indemnify the United States only if damages resulted
from its negligence alone. Respondent, United States,
argues and the court below held, that such an interpretation would tender the provision meaningless since the
United States would "be liable only if itself at fault" and
that the clear meaning of the provision is that the Stevedore would. be liable so long as the accident was caused
in whole or in part through its negligence.
American, however, insists that the clause merely stated
existing law. On this record we cannot answer the contention of either party. As it stands the clause is ambiguous. Evidence might well have been taken as to
the intention of the parties, but was not.' It may be
that the parties only meant American to indemnify the
United States should the Government be held liable for
damages solely caused by American's negligence. It
may be that the intention was that American should
fully reimburse the United States for all damages caused
2 American moved the Circuit Court of Appeals for an order allowing the parties to take proof and to submit it to the court as to the
intent of the parties respecting the indemnity clause of the contract,
or 'in the alternative for an order remanding the proceeding to the
District Court for further hearing as to the intent and meaning of the
clause. The Circuit Court of Appeals denied the motion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

in any part by American's negligence. Finally, the parties
may have intended that American, in case of the joint negligence of the parties, should be responsible for that
proportion of the damages which its fault bore to the
total fault. Although the usual rule in admiralty, in
the absence of contract, is for each joint tortfeasor to pay
the injured party a moiety of the damages, The Alabama,
92 U. S. 695; The Atlas, 93 U. S.302; Barbarinov. Stanhope S. S. Co., 151 F. 2d 553, we do not believe that the
last alternative, which provides for a measure of comparative negligence, is necessarily beyond the intent of the
parties. Comparative negligence is not unknown to our
maritime law. The Max Morris, 137 U. S. 1; The Henry
S. Grove, 22 F. 2d 444; see Robinson on Admiralty, p. 91.
From the record it is not clear whether the District Court
made any finding as to the meaning of the contract. We
believe its interpretation should be left in the first instance to that court, which shall have the benefit 'of
such evidence as there is upon the intention of the parties.
If the District Court interprets the contract not to apply
to the facts of this case, the court would, of course, be free
to adjudge the responsibility of the parties to the contract
under applicable rules of admiralty law.
We therefore affirm the decree of the Circuit Court of
Appeals as to Porello. We reverse so much of the decree
as awards indemnity to the United States under the contract and remand the case to the District Court for
determination of the meaning of the contract.
The case of United States v. Lauro, No. 514, is here on
certificate from the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. The certificate is quoted in full in the note.4
The only question posed by the case is whether a suit for
.24

"Statement of facts

"On May 27, 1943, Peter Lauro died as a result of injuries suffered
by him on May 26, 1943, while he was employed by Marra Bros.,
contracting stevedores, on board respondent's vessel, designated as

AMERICAN STEVEDORES v. PORELLO.
446

459

Opinion of the Court.

damages for death by wrongful act will lie under the Public Vessels Act. It is settled that where death "results
from a maritime tort committed on navigable waters
No. 596, which vessel was docked at Pier 4, Staten Island, New York.
The death was caused by personal injuries suffered by Lauro when
he fell from a hatch cover on the vessel's main deck into the hold.
At the time of the accident, the vessel, No. 596, was owned by the
United States of America, respondent, and had been allocated by the
respondent to the United States Army. It was being loaded with
cargo which was owned by the United States, and which consisted
of Army and Navy property and Lend-Lease material which was
being shipped to North Africa. Marra Bros., the employer of the
deceased, was hired by the United States Army to load the vessel.
"Thereafter, Lauro's widow filed a libel in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York against United
States of America to recover damages under the Public Vessels Act
of 1925; 46 U. S. C. Section 781, for wrongfully causing Lauro's
death. In this proceeding the District Court rendered a decree
awarding damages to the libelant in the sum of $25,000. From this
decree an appeal was taken to this court, and the cause came on for
argument on March 12, 1946. On this appeal, the respondent-appellant contended that the said Public Vessels Act of 1925 provided a
remedy against the United States for damage to property only, but
not for damage to a person or damage arising by reason of the death
of a human being. The question thus arising is as follows:
"Question certified
'Does the word 'damages,' as it appears in the following sentence
of the Public Vessels Act of 1925; 46 U. S. C. § 781:
'A libel in personam in admiralty may be brought against the
United States, or a petition impleading the United States, for damages caused by a public vessel of the United States, and for compensation for towage and salvage services, including contract salvage,
rendered to a public vessel of the United States: 'Provided, That the
cause of action arose after the 6th day of April, 1920'
mean damages to property only, or does it mean, as well, damages
under Sections 130 to 134 of the Decedent Estate Law of the State
of New York recoverable by A personal representative because of the
death of a human being? Which question, arising from the facts
aforesaid, is hereby submitted to the Supreme Court."

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting

330 U. S.

within a State whose statutes give a right of action on
account of death" the admiralty will entertain a libel for
damages sustained by those to whom the right is given.
Western Fuel Co. v. Garcia, 257 U. S. 233, 242.

See dis-

cussion in Just v. Chambers, 312 U. S.383, 388-391. Here
the death occurred on navigable waters of New York,
which has a statute granting a right of action for damages
on account of wrongful death. Nor can damages suffered
on account of death be distinguished from damages on
account of personal injuries. Death is the supreme personal injury. For the reasons stated in the Porello case
we conclude that the word "damages" in the Public Vessels Act, § 1, 46 U. S. C. § 781, means damages under
§§ 130-134 of the New York Decedent Estate Law.
Accordingly we answer the certificate as follows: The
word "damages" as used in 46 U. S. C. § 781 includes damages under §§ 130-134 of the Decedent Estate Law of the
State of New York recoverable by a personal representative because of the death of a human being.
MR. JUSTIcE FRANKFURTER,

with whom

THE CHIEF

JUSTICE concurs, dissenting.

Without disregarding the significance which -we have
heretofore attached to legislative history, I cannot give the
Public Vessels Act Ithe scope given it by the Court.
It can hardly be maintained that, in the setting of legal
history, the phrase "damages caused by a public vessel"
must cover personal injuries due to failure to provide
proper working conditions for a' longshoreman. The
143 Stat. 1112, 46 U. S. C. § 781: "That a libel in personarn in
admiralty may be brought against the United States, or a petition
impleading the United States, for damages caused by a public vessel
of the United States, and for compensation for towage and salvage
services, including contract salvage, rendered to a public vessel of the
United States: Provided, That the cause of action arose after the
6th day of April, 1920."

AMERICAN STEVEDORES v. PORELLO.
446

FRANKFURTER,

461

J., dissenting.

problem for construction is not whether the term "damages" may be applied to money compensation for hurt to
person or property. What is to. be construed is "damages
caused by a public vessel." Standing by itself, that
phrase, spontaneously read, may well mean damage inflicted by a public vessel rather than "damages" incurred
in connection with its operation. All we held in Canadian
Aviator, Ltd. v. United States, 324 U. S.215, was that its
personnel was part of the public vessel for purposes of
"causing" damage to another vessel.
The words do not stand alone. They are illumined by
the legislative history of the Public Vessels Act. This
history has been so accurately summarized in the Government's brief that we shall avail ourselves of it:
"On May 29, 1924, Mr. Underhill introduced H. R.
9535, 68th Cong., 1st Sess., which became the Public
Vessels Act without change so far as the present provision is concerned. At that time, there were already
pending two other bills, H. R. 6989 and H. R. 9075, both
of which would also have authorized suit in case of damage by a public vessel. H. R. 6989, likewise introduced
by Mr. Underhill, was the successor of a series of bills
introduced at each session of Congress since 1920. It
proviqed for suit 'for damages caused by collision by a
public vessel,' and had the approval of all interested Government departments. H. R. 9075, a new measure, was
designed to revise the Suits in Admiralty Act and, at the
same time, remove its existing limitation to only such
vessels as are operated by the Government as merchant
vessels. It would have resulted in making the United
States liable for personal injuries by all public vessels
exactly as it was already for those by its merchant vessels. H. R. 9075 had the powerful support of the Maritime Law Association of the United States and of Judge
Hough, then the country's outstanding admiralty judge

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

-

330 U. S.

It did not have the unqualified approval of the interested departments, which were insisting on important
changes.
"The omission of H. R. 6989 and its predecessors to
cover personal injuries had been. the subject of criticisms,
some of which are cited in the brief of respondent Porello.
But protracted delays were apparent if an attempt were
made to rewrite H. R. 9075 so as to meet the objections
thereto. Instead of proceeding further with either H. R.
6989 or H. R. 9075, Mr. Underhill, for the Committee,
introduced H. R. 9535, which, in place of limiting its
grant of jurisdiction to suits 'for damages caused by collision by a public vessel,' covered all suits 'for damages
caused by a public vessel.' The purpose of this change
is nowhere discussed. Mr. Underhill, in explaining the
intent of the proposed legislation, stated, however (66
Cong. Rec. 2087): 'The bill I have introduced simply
allows suits in admiralty to be brought by owners 'of
vessels whose property has been damaged by collision or
other fault of Government vessels and Government
agents.' Never at any time in the course of the debates
in the House or Senate was it expressly stated that the
bill extended to suits for personal injuries. Many statements in the course of the debates, some of which are
cited in petitioner's brief, seem to indicate that only relief
for property damage was intended. We accordingly
submit that, if decisive weight is to be given to the legislative history, it would appear that the Public Vessels
Act was not intended to cover suits for personal injury."
In seores of cases in recent years this Court has given
"decisive weight" to legislative history. It has. done so
even when the mere words of an enactment carried
a clear meaning. An impressive course of decisions
enjoins upon us not to disregard the legislative history of
the Public Vessels Act unless it is so completely at war
with the terms of the statute itself that we must deny one

AMERICAN STEVEDORES v. PORELLO.
446

FRANKFURTER,

463

J., dissenting.

or the other. We can find such a conflict only by reading
the Act itself with dogmatic inhospitality to the usual
illuminations from without.
We cannot escape the conclusion that there was no jurisdiction for this libel in the District Court

2 This

conclusion is reinforced by the Report of the Senate Com-

mittee that "The chief purpose of this bill is to grant private owners
of vessels and of merchandise a right of action when their vessels
or goods have been damaged as the result of a collision with any Government-owned vessel." S. Rep. No. 941, 68th Cong., 2d Sess., p. 1.
The Court's opinion finds overriding significance in a letter by the
Attorney General commenting on the Bill, in which he stated that
it "intends to give the same relief against the Government for damages caused . . . by its public vessels" as was given by the Suits in Admiralty Act. That Act did afford the right to sue for personal injuries.
To prefer the Attorney General's view to that expressed by those in
charge of a measure would in itself be not the normal choice. And
this letter of the Attorney General antedated the Report of the Committee and the statement of Representative Underhill. Compare
United States v. Durkee Famous Foods, 306 U. S. 68, 71, where the
Committee Report "stated that the purpose of the bill was set out in
a letter from the Attorney General which it quoted." To reject the
subsequent authoritative statements of the Congressional proponents of the legislation and to accept the view of the Attorney
General to which the Government now does not even refer, is to
discard in favor of dim remote light what heretofore has been deemed
controlling illumination.

