OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

330 U. S.

INDUSTRIAL COMMISSION OF WISCONSIN ET
AL. v. McCARTIN ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO T HE SUPREME COURT OF WISCONSIN.

No. 270.

Argued January 17, 1947.-Decided March 31, 1947.

An employee was injured in Wisconsin while working under an Illinois contract of employment and while both he and his employer
were residents of Illinois. He applied to the Wisconsin Industrial
Commission for adjustment of claim and shortly thereafter applied
to the Illinois Industrial Commission, stating that the general
nature of the dispute was, "Whether Illinois or Wisconsin has
jurisdiction in my case." A settlement contract expressly reserving
any right the employee "may have" under the Wisconsin .Act was
filed with the Illinois Commission, which approved it and issued
a formal settlement order. After full payment of* the amount
awarded in Illinois had been made, the Wisconsin Commission
awarded the -employee certain benefits, less the amount received
under the Illinois award. Held: The Illinois award is final 9nd
conclusive only as to rights arising in Illinois, and Wisconsin is
free under the Full Faith and Credit Clause to award additional
compensation in accord with its own laws. Magnolia Petroleum
Co. v. Hunt, 320 U. S. 430, distinguished. Pp. 626-630.
(a) The fact that the Illinois statute expressly applies to persons
whose employment is outside the State (where the contract of
employment is made in Illinois) and precludes recovery under any
"common law or statutory right" did not preclude recovery under
the Wisconsin statute, because the Illinois statute had been interpreted by the Supreme Court of Illinois as abolishing rights of
action against the employer under the Illinois common law or under
the Illinois Personal Injuries Act and contained nothing to indicate
that it was completely exclusive or was designed to preclude any
recovery under proceedings in another state for injuries received
there in the course of an Illinois employment. Pp. 627-628.
(b) The provision in the settlement contract saving the rights
of the employee in Wisconsin became a part of the Illinois award,
which had become final. Therefore, the Illinois award did not
foreclose an additional award under the laws of Wisconsin.
Pp. 628-630.
248 Wis. 570, 22 N. W. 2d 522, reversed.

INDUSTRIAL COMM'N v. McCARTIN.
622

623

Opinion of the Court.

An employee injured in Wisconsin while working under
an Illinois contract of employment and while both he and
his employer were residents of Illinois accepted settlement under the Illinois Workmen's Compensation Act,
reserving any rights he might have under the Wisconsin
Compensation Act, and later obtained an award for additional benefits under the Wisconsin Act. 'A Wisconsin
court set aside the Wisconsin award and this action was
affirmed by the Supreme Court of Wisconsin. 248 Wis.
570, 22 N. W. 2d 522. This Court granted certiorari.
329 U. S.696. Reversed, p. 630.
Mortimer Levitan, Assistant Attorney General of Wisconsin, argued the cause and filed a brief for petitioners.
Lawrence E. Hart argued the cause for respondents.
With him on the brief was Harold M. Wilkie.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In Magnolia Petroleum Co. v. Hunt, 320 U. S-430, this
Court had occasion to consider the effect of the full faith
and credit clause of the Constitution of the United States
where awards are sought under the workmen's compensation laws of two states. This case presents another facet
of that problem.
The facts are undisputed. Leo Thomas Kopp worked
as a bricklayer for E. E. McCartin. Both were residents
of Illinois. Pursuant to a contract made in Illinois, Kopp
worked for McCartin on a building job in Wisconsin. He
drove back and forth between his home in Illinois and his
work in Wisconsin. While thus employed in Wisconsin,
Kopp suffered an injury to his left eye. On June 7, 1943,
he filed an application for adjustment of claim with the
Industrial Commission of Wisconsin. McCartin and his
insurance carrier entered an objection to the jurisdiction

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

of the Wisconsin Commission to hear the claim. Then
on July 20, 1943, Kopp filed an application for adjustment
of claim with the Industrial Commission of Illinois, in
which the general nature of the dispute was given as
"Whether Illinois or Wisconsin has jurisdiction in my
case."
Under date of October 11, 1943, the Wisconsin Commission wrote the insurance carrier that Kopp had been
informed that, so far as Wisconsin law was concerned, he
was entitled to proceed under the Illinois Workmen's Compensation Act (Ill. Rev. Stat. 1943, Ch. 48, §§ 138-172)
and thereafter claim compensation under the Wisconsin
Workmen's Compensation Act (Wis. Stat. 1945, Ch. 102),
with credit to be given for the amount paid him pursuant
to the Illinois ct. A copy of this letter was sent to Kopp.
Counsel for the insurance carrier replied on November
3, 1943. It was there stated that the insurance carrier
understood that if payments were made by it to Kopp
under the Illinois statute credit would be given for those
payments in the event an award was made to Kopp Under
the Wisconsin Act; and with that understanding, the insurance carrier was proceeding to pay Kopp compensation under the Illinois statute.
On November 3, 1943, a settlement contract was signed
by Kopp and McCartin. The parties therein agreed that
the sum of $2,112 was to be paid to Kopp in full and final
settlement of any and all claims arising out of Kopp's
injury by virtue of the Illinois Workmen's Compensation
Act. * The contract also stated: "This settlement does not
affect any rights that applicant may have under the Workmen's Compensation Act of the State of Wisconsin."
The settlement contract and a petition by Kopp that
the amount due be paid to him in a lump sum were filed
with the Illinois Commission on November 29, 1943. A
hearing was held before a Commissioner on December 3,

INDUSTRIAL COMM'N v. McCARTIN.
622

625

Opinion of the Court.

in the course of which attention was called to the reservation of rights in Wisconsin. The presiding Commissioner
informed Kopp that he did not know what effect the reservation had or what Kopp's rights were under the Wisconsin statute. Kopp replied that he would appreciate
receiving the lump sum under the Illinois law and that
he would "take chances on Wisconsin." Following the
hearing, the Commissioner approved the settlement contract and the petition for a lump sum payment. Kopp
received payment on December 7 in the amount specified
in the settlement contract plus a small additional sum for
temporary disability. Thereafter, on January 10, 1944,
a formal order was entered by the Illinois Commission directing payment of the lump sum of $2,112. The circumstances of the entry of this later order, after payment had
been made in fact, are not disclosed. No petition to review the settlement contract or lump sum payment was
filed and no action to secure a review of the formal order
was taken.
In the meantime, on December 20, 1943, this Court's
decision in Magnolia Petroleum Co. v. Hunt, supra, was
rendered. The Wisconsin Commission then held a hearing on February 20, 1944, on Kopp's application before it.
McCartin and the insurance carrier filed an amended
answer, contending that under the full faith and credit
clause the Wisconsin proceedings were barred by the award
and payment under the Illinois Act; reliance was placed
upon the MagnoliaPetroleum Co. case. The Commission
overruled this objection and ordered the payment to Kopp
of certain benefits, after giving credit for the sums paid
under the Illinois Act.
The Circuit Court for Dane County, Wisconsin, set aside
the Wisconsin Commission's order on the authority of the
Magnolia Petroleum Co. case. On appeal, the Supreme
Court of Wisconsin affirmed the lower court's judgment

626

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

on the same authority. 248 Wis. 570, 22 N. W. 2d 522.
We granted certiorari to determine the applicability of the
full faith and credit clause, as interpreted in the Magnolia
PetroleumCo. case, to the facts of this case.
It is clear, in the absence of a prior award in Wisconsin, that the compensation paid to the employee
under the Illinois Workmen's Compensation Act was constitutionally proper from the full faith and credit standpoint. Illinois was the state where the parties entered
into the employment contract and its legitimate concern
with that employer-employee relationship permitted it to
apply its own statute even though the injury occurred
elsewhere. Alaska Packers Assn. v. Industrial Accident
Comm'n, 294 U. S. 532; Cardillo v. Liberty Mutual Ins.
Co., 330 U. S. 469. At the same time, in view of the fact
that the accident took place in Wisconsin, any full faith
and credit questions that might have been raised had compensation first been awarded under the Wisconsin Workmen's Compensation Act are answered by Pacific Employers Ins. Co. v. Industrial Accident Commission, 306
U. S. 493. The troublesome problem that arises here is
whether the compensation paid under the Illinois statute
raises a full faith and credit bar to a subseauent award in
Wisconsin for an additional amount.
If it were apparent that the Illinois award was intended
to be final and conclusive of all the employee's rights
against the employer and the insurer growing out of the
injury, the decision in the Magnolia Petroleum Co. case
would be controlling here. The Court there found that
the compensation award under .the Texas Workmen's
Compensation Law was made explicitly in lieu of any
other recovery for injury to-the employee, precluding even
a recovery under the laws of another state. See Bradford
Elec. Co. v. Clapper, 286 U. S. 145, 153. And since the
Texas award had the degree of finality contemplated by
the full faith and credit clause, it was held that Louisiana

INDUSTRIAL COMM'N v. McCARTIN.
622

627

Opinion of the Court.

was constitutionally forbidden from entering a subsequent
award under its statute. But we do not believe that the
same situation exists in this case, the Illinois award being
different in its nature and effect from the Texas award in
the Magnolia case.
The Illinois Workmen's Compensation Act was concededly applicable under the circumstances of this case.
Section 3 of that Act provides that it shall apply automatically and without election to all employers and employees engaged in businesses or enterprises such as those
involving the erection or construction of-any structure.
At the time when he was injured, Kopp was doing mason
work for his employer in connection with the erection of
houses. Section 5 then provides that the term "employee"
includes those persons "whose employment is outside of
the State of Illinois where the contract of hire is made
within the State of Illinois . . . ." Kopp was such an
employee, having been hired in Illinois and injured while
employed in Wisconsin.
Section 6 states that "No common law or statutory right
to recover damages for injury or death sustained by any
employe while engaged in the line of his duty as such employe, other than the compensation herein provided, shall
be available to any employe who is covered by the provisions of this act, . . ." This section has been interpreted to mean that, in situations to which the Act applies,
the right of action against the employer under the Illinois
common law or under the Illinois Personal Injuries Act
(Ill. Rev. Stat. 1943, Ch. 70, §§ 1, 2) has been abolished.
MississippiRiver Power Co. v. IndustrialCommission, 289
Ill. 353, 124 N. E. 552; Faber v. Indtustrial Commission,
352 Ill. 115, 185 N. E. 255. To that extent, the Act provides an exclusive remedy.
But there is nothing in the statute or in the decisions
thereunder to indicate that it is completely exclusive, that
it is designed to preclude any recovery by proceedings

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

brought in another state for injuries received there in
the course of an Illinois employment. Cf. Bradford Elec.
Co. v. Clapper, supra; Cole v. Industrial Commission,
353 Ill. 415, 187 N. E. 520.

And in light'of the rule

that workmen's compensation laws are to be liberally
construed in furtherance of the purpose for. which they
were enacted, Baltimore & Phila. Steamboat Co. v.
Norton, 284 U. S. 408, 414, we should not readily interpret such a statute so as to cut off an employee's right to
sue under other legislation passed for his benefit. Only
some unmistakable language by a state legislature or judiciary would warrant our accepting such a construction.
Especially is this true where the rights affected are.thcse
arising under legislation of another state and where the full
faith and credit provision of the United States Constitution is brought into play. See Ohio v. ChattanoogaBoiler
Co., 289 U. S. 439.
We need not rest our decision, however, solely upon the
absence of any provision or construction of the Illinois
Workmen's Compensation Act forbidding an employee
from seeking alternative or additional relief under the laws
of another state. There is additional evidence that the
employee is free to ask for additional compensation in
Wisconsin. That evidence is in the Illinois award itself,
an award which is acknowledged to have been made in
compliance with the Illinois statute.
Here the employer and the employee entered into a
settlement contract fixing the amount of compensation to
which the employee was entitled under the Illinois statute,
thereby avoiding the expense and delay of litigating the
matter. This contract, together with the employee's petition for a lump sum payment, was approved by one of
the Commissioners of the Illinois Industrial Commission.
By that approval, the agreement became "in legal effect
an award." Hartford Accident Co. v. Industrial Commission, 320 Ill. 544, 546, 151 N. E. 495, 496; Michelson v.

INDUSTRIAL COMM'N v. McCARTIN.
622

629

Opinion of the Court.

Industrial Commission, 375 Ill. 462, 31 N. E. 2d 940.
Under Illinois law, such awards are described as res judicata on the matters thus adjudicated and agreed upon,
precluding the Commission from subsequently reviewing
the awards or setting them aside. CentraliaCoal Co. V.
IndustrialCommission, 297 Ill. 451, 130 N. E. 727; Stromberg Motor Device Co. v. Industrial Commission, 305 Ill.
619, 137 N. E. 462; Lewin Metals Corp. v. Industrial
Commission, 360 Ill. 371, 196 N. E. 482; Trigg v. Industrial Commission, 364 Ill. 581, 5 N. E. 2d 394.
One of the provisions in the settlement contract which
became the award was the statement that "This settlement
does not affect any rights that applicant may have under
the Workmen's Compensation Act of the State of Wisconsin." That statement was made a part of the contract
at tl2 request of the employee, who had been informed by
the Wisconsin Commission that he was entitled to claim
an additional amount of compensation in Wisconsin after
recovering in Illinois. See InterstatePower Co.,v. Industrial Commission, 203 Wis. 466, 234 N. W. 889; Salvation
Army v. Industrial Commission, 219 Wis. 343, 263 N. W.
349; Wisconsin Bridge & Iron Co. v. Industrial Commission, 222 Wis. 194, 268 N. W. 134. The employer's insurance carrier was likewise informed, and all the parties
proceeded on the assumption that the employee was attempting' to recover compensation under the statutes of
both Illinois and Wisconsin, with credit to be given in
Wisconsin for any sum recovered in Illinois. In furtherance of this common understanding, the above statement
,was inserted in the Illinois settlement contract and was
brought to the attention of the Industrial Commissioner
before he approved the contract. The Commissioner confessed that he did not know the meaning of this provision,
but he did not order it stricken. Rather he approved it
for whatever it was worth.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

This contract provision saving the rights of the employee in Wisconsin thus became part of the Illinois award,
an award which has achieved finality in the absence of a
timely appeal. This provision means more than might be
implied in the case. of an ordinary judgment or decree.
Any party, of course, has the right to seek another judgment or decree, however inconsistent or futile such an attempt might be; and it takes no reservation in the original
judgment or decree to give him that right. But when the
reservation in this award is read against the background
of the Illinois Workmen's Compensation Act, it becomes
clear that the reservation spells out what we believe to be
implicit in that Act-namely, that an Illinois workmen's
compensation award of the type here involved does not
foreclose an additional award under the laws of another
state. And in the setting of this case, that fact is of decisive significance.
Since this Illinois award is final and conclusive only as
to rights arising in Illinois, Wisconsin is free under the full
faith and credit clause to grant an award of compensation
in accord with its own laws. Magnolia Petroleum Co. v.
Hunt, supra, thus does not control this case.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

concurs in the result.

