PENFIELD CO. v. S. E. C.
567

Syllabus.

mission has done so and finds that a greater differential
than that prescribed would create unjust advantages and
diversions of traffic. But the Court ignores the effect of
what it orders on existing rate structures and on grainproducing regions and shippers other than barge users.
It simply writes in "shall not consider" where Congress
said "shall consider."
Because this decision seems to me to deprive the Commission of these discretionary powers to adjust through
rates to general shipping conditions and rate structures,
I dissent.
MR. JUSTICE

FRANKFURTER

joins in this opinion.

PENFIELD COMPANY OF CALIFORNIA ET AL.
SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION.

V.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 453. Argued January 16, 1947.-Decided March 31, 1947.
in a contempt proceeding for failure to comply with a court order
to enforce a subpoena duces tecum issued by the Securities and
Exchange Commission in aid of an investigation pursuant to
§ 20 (a) of the Securities Act of 1933, 48 Stat. 74, a district court
adjudged the defendant guilty of contempt and imposed an unconditional fine, but refused to grant any coercive relief designed to
force him to produce the subpoenaed documents. He paid the
fine and took no appeal. The Commission filed a notice of appeal
in the district court and subsequently a statement of points challenging as error the court's action in imposing the fine instead
of a remedial penalty to make him produce the documents. The
circuit court of appeals held that the district court erred in
imposing the fine and directed that the defendant be ordered
imprisoned until he produced the documents. Held:
1. The appeal was in a suit of a civil nature and was properly
taken, under Rule 73 (a) of'the Rules of Civil Procedure, by filing
a notice of appeal with the district court Pp. 589-591.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Statement of the Case.

330 U. S.

(a) Where a Rule of Civil Procedure conflicts with a prior
statute, the Rule prevails. • P. 589, n. 5.
(b) The application of the Commission for enforcement
of
its subpoena posed a problem in civil, not criminal, contempt.
.United States v. United Mine Workers, 330 U. S. 258. P. 590.
(c) The order of denial, being final, was appealable, and the
right to appeal was not dependent on an appeal from the imposition of the fine. P. 591.
2. The district court abused its discretion in refusing to grant
remedial relief, and the circuit court of appeals did not err in
granting it. Pp. 591-595.
3. The fact that an unconditional fine had been imposed and
paid did not exhaust the jurisdiction of the district court or deprive
the circuit court of appeals of authority to reverse the judgment
which imposed the fine and substitute a term of imprisonment
conditioned upon the continuance of the contempt. Pp. 593-594.
(a) Assuming arguendo that § 268 of the Judicial Code authorizing federal courts "to punish, by fine or imprisonment, at the
discretion of the court, contempts of their authority" governs civil
as well as criminal contempt proceedings, it is no barrier to the
imposition of both a fine as a punitive exaction and imprisonment
as a coercive sanction. P. 594.
(b) When a court imposes a fine as a pepalty, it is punishing
yesterday's contemptuous conduct. When it adds the coercive
sanction of imprisonment, it is announcing the consequences of
tomorrow's contumacious conduct. In that situation, the two
offenses are not the same. P. 594.
4. Not having appealed from the adverse judgment in the contempt proceedings in the district court, the deferidant may not
now raise objections going to the merits of that judgment. P. 594.
5. Assuming that the portion of the order of the circuit court
of appeals which set aside the unconditional fine is here for review,
that court was correct in setting aside the unconditional fine, since
it was imposed in a civil contempt proceeding. P. 595.
157 F. 2d 65, affirmed.

In a contempt proceeding for failure to comply with

an order enforcing a subpoena duces tecum issued by the
Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities
Act of 1933., 48 Stat. 74, a district court adjudged the de-

PENFIELD CO. v. S. E. C.
585

587

Opinion of the Court.

fendant guilty of contempt and imposed an unconditional
fine. On appeal by the Commission, the Circuit Court
of Appeals reversed, set aside the fine and directed that
the defendant be imprisoned until he produced the documents. 157 F. 2d 65. This Court granted certiorari.
329 U. S.706. Affirmed, p. 595.
Morris Lavine argued the cause and filed a brief
for
petitioners.
Roger S. Fosterargued the cause for respondent. With
him on the brief were Acting Solicitor General Washington, Philip Elman, Robert S. Rubin and W. Victor
Rodin.
MR.

JUSTICE

DOUGLAS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Securities and Exchange Commission, acting pursuant to its authority under § 20 (a) of the Securities Act
of 1933, 48 Stat. 74, 86, 15 U. S. C. § 77t, issued orders directing an investigation to determine whether Penfield
Company had violated the Act in the sale of stock or other
securities. In the course of that investigation it directed
a subpoen4 duces tecum to Young, as an officer of Penfield, requiiing him to produce certain books of the corporation covering a four year period ending in April, 1943.
$ee § 19 (b) of the Act. Upon Young's refusal to appear
and produce the books and records, the Commission filed
an application with the District Court for an order enforcing the subpoena.' After a hearing, the court ordered
22 (b) provides:
"In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpena issued to any
person, any of the said United States courts, within the jurisdiction of which said person guilty of contumacy or refusal to
obey is found or resides, upon application by the Commission
may issue to such person an order requiring such person to appear

'SEC.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

Young, as an officer of Penfield, to produce them. Young
persisted in his non-compliance. The Commission then
applied to the District Court for a rule to show cause why
Young should not be adjudged in contempt-a proceeding which, as we shall see, was one for civil contempt. The
District Court delayed action on the motion until after
disposition of a criminal case involving Young, Penfield,
and others. When that case was concluded, the court,
after hearing, adjudged Young to be in contempt. It
refused, however, to grant any coercive relief designed to
force Young to produce the documents but instead imposed on him a flat, unconditional fine of $50.00 which he
paid.8
before the Commission, or one of its examiners designated by it,
there to produce documentary-evidence if so ordered, or there to
give evidence touching the matter in question; and any failure
to obey such order of the court may be punished by said court as
a contempt thereof."
2 That order was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
143
F. 2d 746.
3 The request of the Commission and the ruling of the court
are
made clear by the following colloquy:
"MR. CUTHBERTSON:

So far as the punishment which the Court

might see fit to impose, that is up to the Court. We are still
anxious to get a look at these books and records, so I suggest to
the Court, if he' be so disposed, whatever punishment the Court
might see fit to impose would be in connection with or so long
as he refused to produce his books and records for our inspection.
"THE COURT: I don't think that I am going to be disposed to
do anything like that. I sat here for six weeks and listened to
books and records. The Government produced people from all
over the United States in connection with the Penfield matter.
"MR. CUTHBERTSON:

I might say, your Honor, that we have in

mind that these books and records may disclose certain acts other
than those charged in the indictment. We don't propose to go
over the same matter that the Court went over in connection
with the criminal case.
"THE COURT: The Court can take judicial notice of its own
books and records, and in that trial the evidence was -clear and

PENFIELD CO. v. S. E. C.
585

Opinion of the Court.

That was on July 2,1945.

On September 24, 1945, the
Commission filed a notice of appeal in the District Court
and subsequently a statement of points challenging as
error the action of the District Court in imposing the
$50.00 fine instead of a remedial penalty calculated to
make Young produce the documents. The Circuit Court
of Appeals reversed, holding that the District Court erred
in imposing the fine and directing that Young be ordered
imprisoned until he produced the documents. 157 F. 2d
65. The case is here on a petition for a writ of certiorari
filed by Penfield Co. and Young. Neither the District
Court nor the Circuit Court of Appeals rendered judgment against Penfield. Nor is any relief sought by or
against it here. Accordingly the writ is dismissed as to
Penfield.
First. It is argued that since no application for an
allowance of an appeal was made, the Circuit Court of
Appeals had no jurisdiction to entertain it.' If the appeal was in a suit of a civil nature, the filing of the notice of
appeal with the District Court was adequate under the
Rules of Civil Procedure.5
definite and positive from all of the Government's witnesses, that
during one period of time this defendant had nothing whatsoever
to do with the Penfield Company. Whether that period of time
is covered by what the Securities and Exchange Commission seeks
or not, I don't know.
"The judgment and sentence of the Court is that the defendant
pay a fine of $50, and stand committed until paid."
'Section 8 (c) of the Act of February 13, 1925, 43 Stat. 936, 940,
as amended, 28 U. S. C. § 230, provides: "No appeal intended to
bring any judgment or decree before a circuit court of appeals for
-review shall be allowed unless application therefor be duly made
within three months after the entry of such judgment or decree."
See Alaska Packers Assn. v. Pillsbury,301 U. S. 174; GeorgiaLumber
Co. v. Compania,323 U. S. 334.
Rule 73 (a) provides in part: "When an appeal is permitted by
law from a district court to a circuit court of appeals and within the
time prescribed, a party may appeal from a judgment by filing with

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

It is the nature of the relief asked that is determinative of the nature of the proceeding. Lamb v. Cramer,
285 U. S. 217,220. This was not a proceeding in which the
United States was a party and in which it was seeking to
vindicate the public interest. See Gompers v. Bucks
Stove & Range Co., 221 U. S. 418, 445. The contempt
proceedings were instituted as a part of the proceedings
in which the Commission sought enforcement of a subpoena. The relief which the Commission sought was
production of the documents; and the only sanction
asked was a penalty designed to compel their production. Where a fine or imprisonment imposed on the
contemnor is "intended to be remedial by coercing the
defendant to do what he had refused to do," Gompers v.
Bucks Stove & Range Co., supra, p. 442, the remedy
is one for civil contempt. United States v. United Mine
Workers, 330 U. S.pp. 258, 303. Then "the punishment is
wholly remedial', serves only the purposes of the conplainant, and is not intended as a deterrent to offenses
against the public." McCrone v. United States, 307 U. S.
61, 64. One who is fined, unless by a day certain he produces the books, has it in his power to avoid any penalty.
And those who are imprisoned until they obey the order,
"carry the keys of their prison in their own pockets."
In re Nevitt, 117 F. 448, 461. Fine and imprisonment
are then employed not to vindicate the public interest but
as coercive sanctions to compel the contemnor to do what
the law made it his duty to do. See Doyle v. London
Guarantee Co., 204 U. S.599; Oriel v. Russell, 278 U. S.
358; Fox v. Capital Co., 299 U. S.105; McCrone v. United
States, supra.
The Act gives the Commission authority to require the
production of books and records in the course of its investithe district court a notice of appeal." Where a Rule of Civil ProceduTe conflicts with a prior statute, the Rule prevails. 48 Stat. 1064,
28 U. S. C. § 723b.

PENFIELD CO. v. S. E. C.
585

Opinion of the Court.

gations. And in absence of a basis for saying that its
demand exceeds lawful limits (Oklahoma Press Publishing Co. v. Walling, 327 U. S. 186), it is entitled to the aid
of the court in obtaining them. ' A refusal of the court to
enforce its prior order for the production of the documents
denies the Commission that statutory relief. The issue
thus raised poses a problem in civil, not criminal,
contempt.!
Where a judgment of contempt is embodied in a single
order which contains an admixture of criminal and civil
elements, the criminal aspect of the order fixes its character for purposes of procedure on review. Union Tool
Co. v. Wilson, 259 U. S. 107. But there was no such admixture here. The District Court refused to grant any
remedial relief to the Commission. The denial of that
relief was the ground of the Commission's appeal. The
order of denial being final, was appealable, Lamb v.
Cramer, supra, pp. 220-221, and the right to appeal from
it was in no way dependent on an appeal from the
imposition of the fine.
Second. The question on the merits is two-fold: (1)
whether the Circuit Court of Appeals erred in granting
the Commission remedial relief by directing that Young
be required to produce the documents; and (2) whether
that court exceeded its authority in reversing the judgment which imposed the fine and in substituting a
term of imprisonment conditioned on- continuance of
the contempt.
As we have already noted, the Act requires the production of documents demanded pursuant to lawful oiders of
the Commission and lends judicial aid to obtain them.
There is no basis in the record before us for saying that
6

See § 22 (b), supra, note 1.
This thus disposes of the further contention that the appeal was.

not timely under the Criminal Appeals Act, 18 U. S. C. Supp. II § 682.
United States v. Hark, 320 U. S. 531.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

the demand of the Commission exceeded lawful limits.
There is, however, a suggestion that the District Court was
warranted in denying remedial relief since the contempt
hearing came after a criminal trial of petitioners in another case, during the course of which many of Penfield's
books and records were examined. The thought apparently is that the Commission had probed enough into
Penfield's affairs. But the District Court did not hold
that the Commission's request had become moot, that the
documents produced. satisfied its legitimate needs, or that
the additional ones sought were irrelevant to its statutory
functions.' We agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals
that at least in absence of such a finding, the refusal of the
District Court to grant the full remedial relief which the
Act places behind the orders of the Commission was an
abuse of discretion. The records might well disclose other
offenses against the Securities Act of 1933 which the Commission administers. The history of this case reveals a
long, persistent effort to defeat the investigation. The
fact that Young paid the fine and did not appeal indicates that the judgment of contempt may have been an
easy victory for him. On the other hand, the dilatory
tactics employed suggest that if justice was to be done,
coercive sanctions were necessary.
When the Circuit Court of Appeals substituted imprisonment for the fine, it put a civil remedy in the place of
a criminal punishment. For the imprisonment authorized would be suffered only if the documents were not
produced or would continue only so long as Young was
recalcitrant. On the other hand, the fine imposed by the
District Court, unlike that involved in Fox v. Capital Co.,
8As will be seen from note 3, supra, the court, immediately prior to
rendering its sentence, noted that there was one period during which
Young was not connected with Penfield Co. But the court added:
"Whether that period of time is covered by what the Securities and
Exchange Commission seeks-or not, I don't know."

PENFIELD CO. v. S. E. C.
585

Opinion of the Court.

supra, pp. 106-107, was unconditional and not relief of a
coercive nature such as the Commission sought. It was
solely and exclusively punitive in character. Cf. Nye v.
United States, 313 U. S. 33, 42-43.
As already noted, Young did not appeal from the order
holding him in contempt and subjecting him to a fine.
Young maintains, however, that once the fine was imposed
and paid, the jurisdiction of the court was exhausted; that
the Circuit Court of Appeals was without authority to substitute another penalty or to add to the one already imposed and satisfied. That argument rests on the statute
granting federal courts the power to punish contempts of
their authority, Judicial Code § 268, 28 U. S. C. § 385, and
the decisions construing it. The statute gives the federal
courts power "to punish, by fine or imprisonment, at the
discretion of the court, contempts of their authority,"
including violations of their lawful orders. At least
in a criminal contempt proceeding both fine and imprisonment may not be imposed since the statute provides alternative penalties. In re Bradley, 318 U. S. 50.
Hence if a fine is imposed on a contemnor and he
pays it, the sentence may not thereafter be amended so as
to provide for imprisonment. The argument here is that
after a fine for criminal contempt is paid, imprisonment
may not be added to, or substituted for the fine, as a coercive sanction in a civil contempt proceeding. If that position is sound, then the statutory limitation of "fine or
imprisonment" would preclude a court from imposing a
fine as a punitive measure and imprisonment as a remedial
measure, or vice versa.
The dual function of contempt has long been recognized-(1) vindication of the public interest by punishment of contemptuous conduct; (2) coercion to compel
the contemnor to do what the law requires of him. Gompers v. Bucks Stove & Range Co., supra, pp. 441 et seq.
United States v. United Mine Workers, supra, p. 302.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

As stated in Bessette v. W. B. Conkey Co., 194 U. S.. 324,
327, "The purpose of contempt proceedings is to uphold
the power of the court and also to secure to suitors therein
the rights by it awarded."
We assume, arguendo, that the statute allowing fine or
imprisonment governs civil as well as criminal contempt
proceedings. If the statute is so construed, we find in it
no barrier to the imposition of both a fine as a punitive
exaction and imprisonment as a coercive sanction, or vice
versa. That practice has been approved. Kreplik v.
Couch Patents Co., 190 F. 565, 571. And see Phillips
S. & T. P. Co. v. Amalgamated Assn., 208 F. 335, 340.
When the court imposes a fine as a penalty, it is punishipg
yesterday's contemptuous conduct. When it adds the
coercive sanction of imprisonment, it is announcing the
consequences of tomorrow's contumacious conduct. At
least in that situation the offenses are not the same. And
the most that the statute forbids is the imposition of both
fine and imprisonment for the same offense.
Young raises objections that go to the merits of the
judgment of contempt. These were considered and determined against him by the District Court. Since he
did not appeal from that adverse judgment, he is precluded from renewing the objections at this stage. Le
Tulle v. Scofield, 308 U. S. 415, 421-422; Helvering v.
Pfeiffer, 302 U. S. 247, 250-251.
9Some rules governing criminal contempts are, of course, different
from those governing civil contempts. Gompers v. Bucks Stove &
Range Co., supra, pp. 444, 446-449. If those differences are satisfied
and if, as in In re Swan, 150 U. S. 637; Matter of Christensen Engineering Co., 194 U. S. 458; In re Merchants' Stock Co., 223 U. S. 639;
Farmers Nat'l Bk. v. Wilkinson, 266 U. S. 503, the criminal penalty
and the remedial relief are segregated, no problem of the adequacy
of the order for purposes of appellate review is presented. No question is raised here as to the propriety of combining civil and criminal
contempt in the same proceeding.

PENFIELD CO. v. S. E. C.
585

RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

There is a difference of view among us whether the portion of the order of the Circuit Court of Appeals which
set aside the unconditional fine of $50 imposed on Young
is here for review. But if we assume that it is, a
majority of the Court is of the opinion that the Circuit
Court of Appeals was correct in setting it aside, since the
fine was imposed in a civil contempt proceeding. See
Gompers v. Bucks Stove & Range Co., supra.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE,

concurring.

But for the decision in United States v. United Mine
Workers, 330 U. S.258, I should have no difficulty in concluding with the Court that this contempt proceeding was
exclusively civil in character and that, consequently,, no
criminal penalty could be imposed, coercive relief alone
being allowable in such a case. Gompers v. Bucks Stove
& Range Co., 221 U. S. 418.1 That decision held that the
imposition of criminal punishment in a civil contempt proceeding "was as fundamentally erroneous as if in an action
of 'A. vs. B. for assault and battery,' the judgment entered
had been that the defendant be confined in prison for
twelve months." 221 U. S. at 449.
By every test applied in the Gompers case this proceeding was civil, not criminal in character. Here as there the
proceeding was entitled, instituted and conducted as collateral to civil litigation. It sought only remedial relief,
namely, the production of specified books. and records.'

'See In re Fox, 96 F. 2d 23; Nor8trom v. Wahl, 41 F. 2d 910.
2The application in contempt was made by affidavit setting forth
the facts alleged to constitute the violation. The contempt proceeding was entered upon the civil docket, being cause "No. 2863, Ciyil,
Securities and Exchange Commission v. Penfield Company of California." Young was first commanded to appear and show cause why
a further order should not be made directing him "to show cause why

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

330 U. S.

And issuance of the citation was grounded upon disobedience of the court's lawful order for their production."
This act, like the act of disobedience in the Gompers
case, constituted conduct which would have sustained
either civil or criminal penalty in appropriate proceedings.
But the unequivocal ruling of that case was that criminal
penalties cannot be applied in civil contempt proceedings.
221 U. S. at 444, 449, 451-452. Not only the result, but
the whole tenor of the opinion was to the effect that the
character of the proceeding as a whole, whether as civil
or criminal, must be correlated with the character of the
penalty imposed, and that the two cannot be scrambled,
regardless of the fact that the conduct constituting the
contempt would support the imposition of either type of'
relief in a proceeding appropriate to the kind of relief
given.' Not simply the remedy sought but the character
of the proceeding in which it is pursued, it was held, determines the validity of the relief afforded.'
an order should not be made holding said A. W. Young in contempt of
this Court and to be dealt with accordingly." The order of citation
followed in the same. terms. At the hearing counsel for the Commission maintained consistently and urgently that the proceeding was
exclusively civil, not criminal in character. Not until pronouncement
of judgment was any step taken indicating the proceeding to be
criminal in nature.
8

The validity of the order for production was sustained on appeal.
143 F. 2d 746.
' See the Court's discussion in Gompers v. Bucks Stove & Range Co.,
221 U. S. 418, particularly at pp. 444-449, 451 ff.; see also discussion
in United States v. United Mine Workers, 330 U. S. 258, dissenting
opinion, p. 363, Part III.
5 The Gompers opinion, as I understand it, does not hold that the
character of the relief sought is exclusively the criterion of the character of the proceeding. It was said to be a factor to be taken into account. But, in view of the Court's stress upon other factors, including
the private or public character of the complainant, whether or not the
contempt proceeding arises in and as corollary to civil litigation, and

PENFIELD CO. v. S. E. C.
585

RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

This ruling, as I have previously maintained, was one
not only of historical grounding but of constitutional compulsion.6 Moreover, it recently has been reinforced by
Rule 42 (b) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure,
requiring that the notice prescribed for instituting the proceeding "shall state the essential facts constituting the
criminal contempt charged and describe it as such."1
(Emphasis added.)
Hence, under the rule of the Gompers case and others
following it, it is clear that the district judge had no
power in this case to impose the criminal penalty of a flat
$50 fine and it is equally clear, on the record,8 that he exthe necessity for observing distinct procedural requirements in the
course of trial, the case seems clearly to rule that .the character of the
proceeding determines the nature of the relief which can be given
rather than the reverse.
6 See the references cited in note 4 supra; and see note 5.
7 "A criminal contempt except as provided in subdivision (a) of this
rule shall be prosecuted on notice. The notice shall state the time
and place of hearing, allowing a reasonable time for the preparation of
the defense, and shall state the essential facts constituting the criminal contempt charged and describe it as such. The notice shall be
given orally by the judge in open court in the presence of the defendant
or, on application of the United States attorney or of an attorney appointed by the court for that purpose, by an order to show cause or
an order of arrest. . . ." Rule 42 (b), Federal Rules of Criminal
Procedure. See United States v. United Mine Workers, 330 U..S. 258,
dissenting opinion, p. 372, and note 45.
The rule did not become effective until March 21, 1946, hence was
not applicable to the present proceeding which was instituted and
concluded in the trial court prior to that date.
8See text infra. The record does not show that the function of the
subpoena had been exhausted at the time of the judgment in contempt,
although this was Young's contention accepted, 'apparently, by the
District Court. The contrary, in fact, affirmatively appears. The
subpoena did hot purport.to be issued exclusively in connection with
and for the purposes of the criminal trial which transpired in the District Court between its issuance and the time of the judgment in con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

330 U. S.

ceeded his power in denying the Commission civil coercive
relief altogether.'
Moreover, I think it is clear that both of these problems
are presented for our determination on the state of the
record here. It is true that Young did not appeal from the
District Court's judgment to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
and that he paid the fine. But the Commission appealed
from that judgment in its entirety, as it had a right to do,"
unless the payment of the fine exhausted all judicial power
to deal further with the proceeding. This indeed is a basis
upon which Young maintains that the Circuit Court of
Appeals had no power to reverse the District Court's
judgment.'1
tempt. Counsel for the Commission expressly stated that the
subpoena was not limited to that matter and the court said, after
referring to the period of the criminal suit: "Whether thlt period of
time is covered by what the Securities and Exchange Comission seeks
or not, I don't know."
The court made no finding that the subpoena's function had been.
exhausted. The only reason assigned for refusing civil relief was that
the court had sat in the criminal trial for six weeks during which it had
"listened to books and records," as well as witnesses produced "from
all over the United States in connection with the Penfield matter."
Taking judicial notice of its own proceedings, the court said:
". .. in that trial the evidence was clear and definite . . .that during

one period of time this defendant [Young] had nothing whatsoever
to do with the Penfield Company." These grounds, of course, were
not the equivalent of finding that the records covered by the subpoena
had been produced or that the Commission had no power or valid reason for pursuing its statutory investigation through the subpoena
beyond the confines of the closed criminal trial.
9
See note 8. And see text infra preceding note 20.
10 28 U. S. C. § 225; see Clarke v. Federal Trade Commission, 128
F. 2d 542; Lamb v. Cramer, 285 U. S. 217, 220.
11The principal contention in this respect is based on § 268 of the
Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C. § 385, and the decision in In re Bradley,
318 U. S.50. The Bradley case, however, was one in criminal contempt and the decision was that in such a case § 268 forbids imposition
as penalty of both fine and imprisonment. The penalties being al-

PENFIELD CO. v. S. E. C.
585

RUTLEDGE,

599

J., concurring.

But clearly, as the Court holds, such power could not be
wanting, if the litigation was exclusively civil in
character. On the contrary the action of the Circuit
Court of Appeals was exactly in accordance with the ruling
in the Gompers case and was required by it. In both cases
the proceedings were wholly civil in character. In both a
criminal penalty was imposed. And in both the judgment
laying it was reversed and the cause was remanded to the
trial court for further proceedings looking only to the
giving of civil relief.

The only difference is that in the Gompers case the contemnors had not entered upon the service of the void criminal sentence of imprisonment but appealed from it, while
here Young paid the fine and did not appeal. That action
on his part, however, cannot oust the Commission of its

statutory right of appeal and review or of its right to civil
relief.12 If the contempt proceeding were criminal in

character, a different question might be presented. 13
But compliance

with

a

void

criminal penalty, void

because imposed in a wholly civil proceeding, cannot
ternative by the section's terms, it was held that payment of the fine
exhausted the court's power.
The Bradley case therefore presented no question of the applicability of § 268 in civil contempt proceedings or of its effect if applicable.
Compare the majority and concurring opinions in In re Sixth & Wisconsin Tower, Inc., 108 F. 2d 538. It cannot be taken as having ruled
that the court's invalid imposition of criminal punishment in civil
contempt proceedings or satisfaction of such a void sentence exhausts
either the trial court's power or that of an appellate court on review
to deal with the civil contempt by affording civil relief or to avoid the
invalid criminal judgment.
Whether or not § 268, if applicable to a so-called mixed civil-criminal
contempt proceeding, would forbid the imposition of relief both by
way of fine and imprisonment, one punitive, the other coercive and
remedial, need not be considered in view of the holding that this
proceeding was exclusively civil in character.
12
See notes 10, 14.
13See note 11 supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
RUTLEDGE,

J,, concurring.

330 U. S.

make it valid or oust either the courts of their civil jurisdiction in matters of relief or opposing parties of their
rights in that respect.
In short, the Commission was forced to appeal from the

judgment rendered, if it was not to acquiesce in what the
court had done and thereby suffer unauthorized thwarting
of its statutory investigating power. That judgment was
rightfully taken in its entirety to the Circuit Court of Appeals, was reviewed by that court, and was reversed not
partially but completely."

Our action in granting cer-

tiorari brought here for review the entire judgment of the

Circuit Court of Appeals, including its reversal of the
criminal judgment rendered by the District Court as well
14

The opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals states: "Young did
not appeal from the order holding him in contempt. That decision is
final and the only question before us is the extent of the remedy to
which the Commission is entitled." 157 F. 2d 65, 66. Ruling that
the cause did not become moot by reason of Young's payment of the
fine, the court further held the District Court had abused its "discretion" in not granting the full relief sought by the Commission.
The concluding paragraph of the opinion stated: "The order imposing the fine is reversed and the case remanded to the district court
for an order requiring Young's imprisonment to compel his obedience
to the order to produce the documents in question." The opinion concluded: "The order of the district court is reversed," 157 F. 2d at 67,
and the formal order for judgment entitled "decree" directed "that
the order of the said District Court in this cause be, and hereby is,
reversed, and that this cause be, and hereby is remanded to the said
District Court for further proceedings in accordance with the opinion
of this Court."
The notice of appeal filed in the District Court is not set forth in the
printed record here. But the "Statement of Points on Which the
Appellant Intends to Rely," filed in the Court of Appeals, specifies
that "the District Court erred in ordering Young to pay a fine of
$50.00 instead of imposing a remedial penalty calculated to coerce
1 oung to produce or allow inspection of the books and records . ..

."

In this state of the record it cannot be taken that the appeal and
the judgment of the Court of Appeals did not comprehend the criminal
penalty.

PENFIELD CO. v. S. E. C.
585

RUTLEDGE, J., concurring.

as its mandate for civil relief.15 Hence in my opinion we
are forced to take action upon the judgment as a whole, in
both civil and criminal phases.
Since I am in agreement with the Court's view that the
Gompers ruling and others in accord with it are controlling
-in this case, I think the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals should be affirmed, though with modification in
one respect. " I find it difficult, however, to reconcile the
action taken here with what was done in the Mine Workers
decision. A majority there held, as I thought contrary to
the Gompers ruling, that civil and criminal contempt could
be prosecuted in a single contempt proceeding conducted
according to the rules of procedure applicable in equity
causes,17 and that both types of relief, civil and criminal,
could be imposed in such a mixed proceeding. It was also
held that on review the appellate court is free to substitute its own judgment concerning the nature and extent of
both types of relief for that of the trial court, and therefore that in remanding the cause for further proceedings
there was no necessity to leave room for the further exercise of the trial court's discretion in relation to either type
of relief.
If in that case a single mixed proceeding could suffice
without regard to the requirements of Rule 42 (b) and the
15 This Court's action in granting certiorari, 329 U. S. 706, was not
limited to any question or phase of the Court of Appeals' action, but
brought up the judgment in its entirety. Since that court's judgment
comprehended the reversal of the criminal penalty imposed by the
District Court, that phase of the Court of Appeals' judgment is

necessarily
here for review and determination.
16 See text at note 20.
17 See United States v. United Mine Workers, 330 U. S. 258, dissent-

ing opinion, p. 363, Part III.

The rule to show cause issued in that

case provided: "IT IS FURTHER ORDERED, that the accusd, and

each of them, shall, unless waived by them, be tried upon said charges
of contempt by the court with an advisory jury to be empanelled by

this court."

(Emphasis added.)

The advisory jury was waived.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
RUTLEDGE, J.,

concurring.

330 U. S.

Gompers line of decisions concerning procedures to be followed in instituting and conducting contempt proceedings,
for the imposition of both civil and criminal penalties,
I see no -valid reason why the same thing could not be done
in this cause or why both the criminal fine imposed by the
District Court and the civil relief given by the Circuit
Court of Appeals should not be allowed to stand.
It is true that if the proceeding is to be taken as having
been both civil and criminal a serious question would be
presented on the terms of § 268 of the Judicial Code
whether imposition and payment of the fine here did not
exhaust judicial power to deal further with the proceeding, more especially in its criminal phase. 8 But that
question. too, I take it, necessarily would be settled if the
Mine Workers ruling were to govern here.
It is also true that in this case the United States was not
a party by that name, as it was in the Mine Workers case,
to the civil litigation in which the contempt proceeding
arose or to the contempt proceeding itself. But the Commission was the moving party in both, representative as
such of the public interest as the trial court pointed out."
And, in view of the vast liberality allowed by the Mine
Workers decision concerning matters of procedure and relief in contempt proceedings, it hardly can be a solid
ground for distinguishing the cases that in one the public
interest was represented, as to the criminal phase, eo
nomine United States, in the other under the name of the
Securities and Exchange Commission. Cf. In re Bradley,
18 See note 11 supra and text.
19 The court inquired of Commission counsel, in response to argument that the proceeding was exclusively civil, since it arose in the
course of civil litigation and sought only remedial relief for one of the
parties, and not as an independent proceeding in the public interest to
vindicate the court's power: "The Securities and Exchange Commission does not operate for itself, does it? I mean it operates in the
public interest, doesn't it?"

PENFIELD CO. v. S. E. C.
585

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

318 U. S. 50. Indeed the record shows that in the present
case the United States Attorney and the Assistant United
States Attorney participated in the contempt proceeding
in the District Court.
Notwithstanding these difficulties, since the Court rests
the decision in this cause upon the Gompers rule, which in
my opinion represents the settled law, I join in the affirmance of the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals, both
insofar as it reversed the District Court's judgment because of the denial of coercive relief and in relation to its
reversal of the criminal penalty imposed by the District
Court.
But, while there can be no question of the Court of Appeals' power in proper cases to review and revise civil relief
given in the District Court, in this case no such relief had
been awarded. In my opinion the question of the character and scope of that relief was a matter, in the first instance, for the District Court's judgment rather than for
the Court of Appeals. Accordingly, I would modify the
judgment of reversal in the civil phase so that the cause
would be remanded to the District Court with directions
to exercise its discretion in framing the relief adequate and
appropriate to make effective the Commission's right to
disclosure.10
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,
JUSTICE JACKSON, dissenting.

with whom concurs MR.

Beginning with the Interstate Commerce Act in 1887,
it became a conventional feature of Congressional regulatory legislation to give administrative agencies authority
to issue subpoenas for relevant information. Congress
has never attempted, however, to confer upon an administrative agency itself the power to compel obedience to
such a subpoena. It is beside the point to' consider
2

E. Ingraham Co. v. Germanow, 4 F. 2d 1002, 1003.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

330 U. S.

whether Congress was deterred by constitutional difficulties. That Congress should so consistently have withheld powers of testimonial compulsion from administrative agencies discloses a policy that speaks with impressive
significance.
Instead of authorizing agencies to enforce their subpoenas, Congress has required them to resort to the courts
for enforcement. In the discharge of that duty courts
act as courts and not as administrative adjuncts. The
power of Congress to impose on courts the duty of enforcing obedience to an administrative subpoena was sustained
precisely because courts were not to be automata carrying
out the wishes of the administrative. They were discharging judicial power with all the implications of the
judicial function in our constitutional scheme. Interstate
Commerce Commission v. Brimson, 154 U. S. 447; 155
U. S. 3. Accordingly, an order directing obedience to a
subpoena by the Securities and Exchange Commission,
like a subpoena of any other federal agency, does
not issue as a matter of course. An administrative
subpoena may be contested on the ground that it exceeds
the bounds set by the Fourth Amendment against unreasonable search and seizure; that the inquiry is outside
the scope of the authority delegated to the agency; that
the testimony sought to be elicited is irrelevant to the
subject matter of the inquiry; that the person to whom
it is directed cannot be held responsible for the production
of the papers. See Interstate Commerce Commission v.
Brimson, supra, at 479 and 489; Harriman v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 211 U. S. 407; Ellis v.
Interstate Commerce Commission, 237 U. S. 434; Smith
v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 245 U. S. 33; Federal Trade Commissionv. American Tobacco Co., 264 U. S.
298; Oklahoma Press Publishing Co. v. Walling, 327 U. S.
186. And see Lilienthal, The Power to Compel Testimony, 39 Harv. L. Rev. 694.

. PENFIELD CO. v. S. E. C.
585

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

In this case, the Securities and Exchange Commission
issued a subpoena to Young, as officer of the Penfield
Company, for the production of books and records of the
company covering the period May 1, 1939, to April 9,1943.
Upon Young's failure to comply, the Commission applied
to the District Court, on April 13, 1943, for an order compelling obedience. From this order an appeal was taken
to the Circuit Court of Appeals which affirmed the order
on June 30, 1944, 143 F. 2d 746, its mandate being spread
on the record of the District Court on December 7, 1944.
Young having persisted in his refusal to comply, the Securities and Exchange Commission, on January 24, 1945,
applied for a rule to show cause why he should not be cited
for contempt. The District Court postponed final hearings on the order to show cause, pending, apparently, the
completion of a criminal trial of Young and the Penfield
Company then before the Court, on an indictment growing out of the inquiry for which the subpoena had been
issued. It was not until July 2, 1945, after the petitioners
had been acquitted in the criminal proceeding, that the
rule to show cause was heard.
The District Court found petitioner Young guilty of
contempt of court for disobedience of its order of June 1,
1943, requiring'the production of records called for by the
subpoena issued by the S. E. C. But the Court refused
the Government's request to impose a contingent punishment to secure production of the records. Instead,
it sentenced Young to the payment of a fine of
$50. Without objection Young paid this fine, and consistently thereafter maintained that by such payment
judicial power had exhausted itself. See In re Bradley,
318 U. S.50. The Government appealed from this disposition by the District Court on the ground that the
District Court, having adjudged Young to be in contempt,
erred in ordering Young to pay a fine of $50 and stand
committed until the fine was paid, instead of imposing

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

330 U. S.

a remedial penalty, calculated to coerce Young to produce
or allow inspection of the books and records of the Penfield Co., pursuant to the order of June 1. 1943. On the
basis of this appeal, which challenged what the District
Court did and what it refused to do, the Circuit Court Of
Appeals, one judge dissenting, reversed the order of the
lower court: "The order imposing the fine is reversed and
the case remanded to the district court for an order requiring Young's imprisonment to compel his obedience to the
order to produce the documents in question." 157 F. 2d
65, 67. This Court then granted certiorari, the petition
for which asked this Court to "reverse the judgment and
order of the Circuit Court of Appeals in this case." There
was thus properly before the Circuit Court of Appeals the
judgment imposing the fine of $50 and refusing to give
coercive remedy, and there is accordingly before us the
correctness of the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals setting aside the $50 fine and ordering a coercive
decree.
The judgment immediately before us is that of the
Circuit Court of Appeals setting aside the fine impos6d
by the District Court and reversing its refusal 'to issue
a coercive order. The ultimate question is the correctness of what the District Court did and. what it
refused to do. It is essential therefore to focus attention on the precise circumstances in which the District
Court acted as it did. This is what the record tells us:
"Mr. Cuthbertson: So far as the punishment
which the Court might see fit to impose, that is up
to the Court. We are still anxious to get a look at
these books and records, so I suggest to the Court,
if he be so disposed, whatever punishment the Court
might see fit to impose would be in connection with
or so long-as he refused to produce his books and
records for our inspection.

PENFIELD CO. v. S. E. C.
585

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

"The Court: I don't think that I am going to be
disposed to do anything like that. I sat here for
six weeks and listened to books and records. The
Government produced people from all over the
United States in connection with the Penfield
matter.
"Mr. Cuthbertson: I might say, your Honor,
that we have in mind that these books and records
may disclose certain acts other than those charged
in the indictment. We don't propose to go over the
same matter that the Court went over in connection
with the criminal case.
"The Court: The Court can take judicial notice
of its own books and records, and in that trial the
evidence was clear and definite and positive from all
of the Government's witnesses, that during one period
of time this defendant had nothing whatsoever to
do with the Penfield Company. Whether that period
of time is covered by what the Securities and Exchange Commission seeks or not, I don't know.
"The judgment and sentence of the Court is that
the defendant pay a fine of $50, and stand committed
until paid."
Bearing in mind that the District Court was not an
automaton which must unquestioningly compel obedience
to a subpoena simply because the Commission had issued
it, we must consider whether the District Court had
abused the fair limits of judicial discretion. If a district
court believes that howsoever relevant a demand for documents may have been at the time it was made, circumstances had rendered the subpoena obsolete, it is entitled
to consider the merits of the subpoena as of the time that
its enforcement is sought and not as of the time that it
was issued. The above colloquy means nothing unless
it means that Judge Hall was of the view that events had
apparently rendered needless the call from young for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

330 U. S.

documents. He may have been wrong in that belief. At
all events it was the view of a judge who had presided
for six weeks over a trial in which these matters were
canvassed. The Circuit Court of Appeals did not have
before it, nor have we, the knowledge or the basis for
knovledge that Judge Hall had, and so neither court can
say with any confidence that he did not have ground for
thinking that the change in circumstances revealed in
the course of the trial obviated the need for the demand
that was made upon Young. We surely ought not to
reverse the action of the district judge on the abstract
assumption that papers ordered to be produced as relevant
to an inquiry at the time the subpoena issued continued
relevant several months later. We ought not to assume
that a subpoena was proper months later when a proceeding lasting more than six weeks before the judge who
had approved the subpoena in the first instance persuaded
him that the circumstances no longer called for carrying
out the terms of the subpoena. When the trial judge
stated his understanding that the intervening circumstances had rendered inappropriate the use of his coercive
powers, counsel for the Government did not gainsay the
judge's view. The failure of Government counsel to contradict the interpretation of facts by the Court does not
present any technical ground of not allowing a point to
be raised on appeal to which no exception was taken. The
significance of counsel's silence is its confirmation of the
judge's interpretation of the circumstances. At least in
the absence of contradiction the interpretation of the
facts by the trial judge was a proper basis for the exercise
of his judicial discretion.
On the record before us, Judge Hall exercised allowable
discretion in finding that the subpoena had spent its force,
and in concluding not to compel obedience to it. At the
same time, he was justified in finding that because Young
had disobeyed the subpoena while it was still alive, he

PENFIELD CO. v. S. E. C.
585

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

should be fined and made to feel that one cannot flout
a court's authority with impunity.
The question, then, is whether the Court could impose
what constituted a fine for criminal contempt, that is, to
vindicate the law as such, without a formal pleading
charging Young with such disobedience. We do not think
Judge Hall had to direct the clerk to issue an attachment
against Young to inform him of that which he obviously
knew and which the proceedings had made abundantly
clear to him. The true significance of our opinion in
United States v. United Mine Workers, 330 U. S. 258, as
we understand it, is that contempt proceedings are sui
generis and should be treated as such in their practical
incidence. They are not to be circumscribed, by procedural formalities, or by traditional limitations of what are
ordinarily called crimes, except insofar as due process of
law and the other standards of decency and fairness in
the administration of federal justice may require. On
this record we find not the faintest denial of any safeguard
or of appropriate procedural protection.
We think the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
should be reversed and that of the District Court
reinstated.

