-OCTOBER

TERM, 1946.

Syllabus.

330 U. S.

this second group. Under these circumstances, we affirm
the court's action in denying an injunction to enjoin violations of the Act as to these trainees. We therefore do
not reach the question as to whether this group as a whole
or any of the persons in it were or were not employees
under the Act.
The sole ground for denying relief as to the persons
training to become firemen, brakemen, and switchmen was
that they were not employees. The findings of fact here
as to the training of these trainees are in all relevant respects practically identical with the findings of fact in
Walling v. PortlandTerminal Co., this day decided, ante,
p. 148. These findings of fact are not challenged. For
the reasons set out in that opinion we hold that the Circuit
Court of Appeals was not in error in holding that the persons receiving training in order to become qualified for
employment as firemen, brakemen, and switchmen, are
not employees within the meaning of the Fair Labor
Standards Act.
Affirmed.
BOZZA v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No, 190.

Argued January 7, 1947.-Decided February 17, 1947.

1. In a trial on an indictment for making and fermenting mash for
the production of alcohol in violation of 26 U. S. C. § 2834; the

evidence showed that C alone handled and mixed the ingredients
of the mash and there was no evidence to indicate that B ever took
any part in, or aided and abetted, this particular part of the process

of operating an illicit distillery or that he was ever in the part of
the premises where the ingredients were stored and the mash was

made, although he helped to operate the still in a different part
of the premises and to transport the product. Held.: The Government's concession that the evidence was insufficient to sustain a
conviction of B is accepted. P. 163.

BOZZA v. UNITED STATES.
160

Statement of the Case.

2. In a trial on an indictment for having possession and custody
of an illicit still in violation of 26 U. S. C. § 2810 (a), the evidence
showed that the defendant helped to operate the still; but there
was no evidence showing that he ever exercised any- control over
the still, aided in the exercise of any such control, or acted as a
caretaker, watchman, lookout or in any similar capacity calculated
to facilitate its custody or possession. Held: The Government's
concession that the evidence was insufficient to sustain his conviction is accepted. Pp. 163-164.
3. In a trial on an indictment for operating "the business of distiller . . . with intent wilfully to defraud" the Government of taxes
in violation of 26 U. S. C. § 2833 (a), the evidence showed that C
secretly carried on the business of a distiller in an apparently
abandoned farmhouse, that B assisted him, and that the products
were transported to a city in a car which followed another car,
sometimes B's. Held: The evidence was sufficient to sustain B'8
conviction. Pp. 164-165.
(a) Under 18 U. 6. C. § 550, one who aids and abets another
to commit a crime is guilty as a principal. P. 164.
(b) The jury could properly infer that one helping to operate
a secret distillery in the manner here shown kne* that it was
operated with intent to defraud the Government of its taxes.
Pp. 164-165.
4. Having been convicted of a crime carrying a mandatory minimum
sentence of fine and imprisonment, defendant was sentenced to
imprisonment only and placed in temporary detention awaiting
transportation to a penitertiary. Five hours later, the judge recalled him, called attention to the mandatory provision for fine and
imprisonment, and sentenced him to. both. Held: This -did
not constitute double 'jeopardy contrary to the Constitution.
Pp. 165:-167.
155 F. 2d 592, affirmed in part and reversed in part.

Petitioner was convicted on five counts of an indictment
for violating the Internal Revenue Laws in connection
with the operation of a still. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed on two counts and affirmed on three counts.
155 F. 2d 592. This Court granted certiorari. 329 U. S.
698. Reversed on two counts and affirmed on one
count, p. 167.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

Harold Simandl submitted on brief for petitioner.
W. Marvin Smith, argued the cause for the ,United
States. With him on the brief were Acting Solicitor
General Wa8hington, Robert S. Erdahl and Philip R.
Monahan.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
The petitioner and one Chirichillo were convicted in a
Federal District Court on all counts of a five-count indictment against them which charged violation of the Internal
Revenue laws in connection with the operation of a still.
The Court of Appeals reversed petitioner's conviction on
counts four and five because of insufficient evidence, but
affirmed as to counts one, two, and three. 155 F. 2d 592.
We granted certiorari. 329 U. S. 698. Count one charged
that the defendants had carried on "the business of
distiller . . . with intent wilfully to defraud the...
United States of the tax on . . . spirits so distilled . .. ."
in violation of 26 U. S. C. § 2833 (a). Count two charged
them with having had possession and custody of the still in
violation of 26 U. S. C. § 2810 (a). Count three charged
that they had made and fermented mash for the production of alcohol in violation of 26 U. S. C. § 2834. It is
argued that the evidence was insufficient to support any
of the three counts here at issue. The Government
concedes its insufficiency as to counts two and three.
There was testimony to show the following: Chirichillo
rented a farmhouse under an assumed name and installed
a 300-gallon still with all equipment necessary to ferment
mash and distill alcohol. The still was operated day and
night. Chirichillo himself mixed the ingredients to make
the:mash in the attic of the 21/2 -story frame building, but
the alcohol distillation was carried on in another part of
the building. Petitioner was at the house two or three
times a week. When there he took instructions from

BOZZA v. UNITED STATES.
160

Opinion of the Court.

Chirichillo and helped him in the operation of the still;
he helped manufacture the alcohol. When Chirichillo
carried his products to Newark, the car in which he carried the illicitly distilled alcohol would follow along behind another car-sometimes petitioner's, sometimes another helper's. The farmhouse where the illicit business
was carried on appeared from the outside to be deserted;
the windows were without shades and the house had been
*practically stripped of furniture
We accept the Government's*concession that the evidence fails to show that this petitioner had made, or helped
to make, the mash as charged in count three. All of the
evidence showed that Chirichillo alone handled and mixed
the ingredients of the mash, and there is nothing whatever to indicate that the petitioner ever took any part in,
or aided and abetted, this particular part of the unlawful
process in any manner, or, indeed, that he was ever in or
around the attic where the mash was made from ingredients stored there. The Internal Revenue statutes have
broken down the various steps and phases of a continuous
illicit distilling business and made each of them a separate
offense. Thus, these statutes have clearly carved out the
conduct of making mash as a separate offense, thereby
distinguishing it from the other offenses involving other
steps and phases of the distilling business. Consequently,
testimony to prove this separate offense of making mash
must point directly to conduct within the narrow margins
which the statute alone defines. One who neither engages in the conduct specifically prohibited, nor aids and
abets it, does not violate the section which prohibits it.
The sufficiency of the evidence as to count two which
charged that the petitioner had custody or possession of
the still is a closer question. It might be possible that
petitioner's helping to make the alcohol aided and abetted
in its "custody or possession." But that would be a very
strained inference under any circumstances. Here again

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

the statutes treat custody or possession as a wholly distinct offense. Yet there was no testimony that the petitioner ever exercised, or aided the exercise of, any control
over the distillery. His participation in carrying the
finished product by car does not fit the category of "custody and possession" so nearly as it resembles the transportation of illegal liquor, 26 U. S. C. § 2803-an offense
which the Circuit Court of Appeals has found the evidence
insufficient to prove. Nor was there any testimony that
the petitioner acted in any other capacity calculated to
facilitate the custody or possession, such as, for illustration, service as a caretaker, watchman, lookout, or in some
other similar capacity. Under these circumstances, we
accept the Government's concession that a judgment of
guilty should not have been rendered on the second
count.
We think there was adequate evidence to support a finding of guilt on the first count which charged operation of
the business of distilling to defraud the Government of
taxes. There was certainly ample evidence to show that
Chirichillo carried on the business of a distiller and that
the petitioner helped him to do it. 18 U. S. C. § 550 provides that one who aids and abets another to commit a
crime is guilty as a principal. Consequently, the jury
had a right to find, as it did, that the petitioner and Chirichillo were equally guilty of operating the business of the
distillery. See United States v. Johnson, 319 U. S. 503,
515, 518.
But, it is argued, there was no evidence that the petitioner acted with knowledge that the distillery business
was carried on with an intent to defraud the Government of its taxes. The same evidence as to knowledge of
this guilty purpose, however, that applied to Chirichillo
*as almost, if not quite, equally persuasive against both
defendants. Petitioner assisted in the manufacture of
alcohol in Chirichillo's still which was operated under con-

BOZZA v. UNITED STATES.
160

Opinion of the Court.

ditions of secretiveness in an apparently abandoned farmhouse. The finished alcohol was carried to Newark in a
car which followed another car, sometimes the petitioner's.
The members of the jury could properly draw on their own
experience and observations that lawful stills, unlike the
still in which petitioner worked, usually are not operated
clandestinely and do not deliver their products in the fashion employed here. The members of the jury were not
precluded from drawing inferences as to fraudulent purposes from these circumstances, nor were they compelled
to believe that this petitioner was oblivious of the purposes
of what went on around him. Men in the jury box, like
men on the street, can conclude that a person who actively
helps to operate. a secret distillery knows that he is helping
to violate Government revenue laws. That is a well
known objectof an illicit distillery. Doubtless few who
ever worked in such a place, or even heard about one,
would fail to understand the cry: "The Revenuers are
coming!" We hold that the verdict of guilty on the first
count must stand.
The only statute for violation of which petitioner's conviction is sustained by us carries a minimum mandatory
sentence of fine of one hundred dollas~and imprisonment,
26 U. S. C. § 2833 (a). In announcing sentence atamorning session, the trial judge mentioned imprisonment only.
Thereafter the petitioner was taken briefly to the U. S.
Marshal's office and then to a local federal detention jail
awaiting transportation to the penitentiary where he was
finally to be confined. But about five hours after the sentence was announced, the judge recalled the petitioner and,
according to stipulation, stated in the presence of petitioner and his counsel that "in the imposition of sentence
this morning . . . it has been called to my attention that
there are certain mandatory fines and penalties which, I
omitted to impose. For the record now minimum mandatory fines and penalties will be imposed." Thus a one

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

hundred dollar fine was fixed, as required by law, along
with the imprisonment sentence. Petitioner charges that
this action constituted doubl. jeopardy forbidden by the
Federal, Constitution.
It is well established that a sentence which does not
comply with the letter of the criminal statute which authorizes it is so erroneous that it may be set aside 'on
appeal, Reynolds v. United States, 98 U. S. 145, 168-169;
Murphy v. Massachusetts, 177 U. S. 155, 157, or in habeas
corpus proceedings. In re Bonner, 151 U. S. 242. But in
those cases it was recognized that an excessive sentence
should be corrected,even though the prisoner had already
served part of his term, not by absolute discharge of the
prisoner, but by an appropriate amendment of the invalid
sentence by the court of original jurisdiction, at least during the term of court in which the invalid sentence was
imposed.! Cf. De Benque v. United States, 66 App. D. C.
36, 85 F. 2d 202. In the light of these cases, the fact that
petitioner has been twice before the judge for sentencing
and in a federal place of detention during the five-houi
interim cannot be saidto constitute double jeopardy as we
have heretofore considered it. Petitioner contends, however, that these cases, are inapplicable here because correction of this sentence so as to make it lawful increases his
punishment. Cf. United States v. Benz, 282 U. $. 304,
309. If this inadvertent error cannot be corrected in the
manner used here by the trial court, no Valid and enforceable sentence can be imposed at all. Cf. Jordani'. United
States, 60 F. 2d 4, 6, with Barrow v. United States, 54
App. D. C. 128, 295 F. 949. This Court hhs rejected
the "doctrine that a prisoner, whose guilt is established,
by a regular verdict, is to escape punishment altogether, because the court committed an error in passing the sentence." In re Bonner, supra at 260. The Constitution does not require that sentencing should be a game
'Compare Rule 45c, Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure.

BOZZA v. UNITED STATES.
160

Dissent.

in which a wrong move by the judge means immunity for
the prisoner. See King v. United States, 69 App. D. C. 10,
15, 98 F. 2d 291, 296. In this case the court "only set
aside what it had no authority to do and substitute[d]
directions required by the law to be done upon the conviction of the offender." In re Bonner, supra at 260. It did
not twice put petitioner in jeopardy for the same offense.2
The sentence, as corrected, imposes a valid punishment
for an offense instead of an invalid punishment for that
offense.
Other contentions here do not merit our discussion.
The judgment as to count one isaffirmed. The judgment
is reversed as to counts two and three.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, MR. JUSTICE MURPHY,

and

MR.

JUSTICE RUTLEDGE dissenting as to the affirmance of the
judgment on count ojie.
We are of the view that to convict one as an aider and
abetter in engaging in or carrying on a distillery business
with intent "to defraud" the United States of the tax on
the distilled spirits, 53 Stat. 319, 26 U. S. C. § 2833 (a),
evidence is necessary which shows that by some act of
concealment he promoted the fraud, or by counsel and
advice furthered the unlawful scheme, or in fact had
2 In Ex parte Lange, 18 Wall. 163, relied on by petitioner here, the
defendant had been sentenced to fine and imprisonment for violation
of a statute which authorized a sentence only of fine or imprisonment.
Since he had paid his fine and therefore suffered punishment under a
valid sentence, it was held that his sentence had been "executed by full
satisfaction of one of the alternative penalties of the law .... "
Murphy v. Massachusetts, supra at 160. Therefore, Lange's plea,
that the trial court could not correct the sentence without causing him

to suffer double punishment, was sustained.

Cf. In re Bradley, 318

U. S. 50. But here the petitioner had not suffered any lawful punishment until the court had announced the full mandatory sentence of
imprisonment and fine.
I

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Dissent.

330 U. S.

some interest in the project.1 See UnitedStates v. Cooper,
25 Fed. Cas. 627, 629; UnitedStates v. Logan, 26 Fed. Cas.
990, 992; Seiden v. United States, 16 F. 2d 197, 199; Partson v. United States, 20 F. 2d 127, 129; Anderson v. United
States, 30 F. 2d 485, 487. Aiding and abetting in the
illicit manufacture of liquor is one thing.!

Aiding and

abetting in carrying on the business with intent to defraud
the United States of a tax is quite a different matter, and
requires a different test, if the two offenses are not to be
blended. The evidence in the case and the instructions
given the jury 3 seem to us inadequate to sustain a con-

' Judge Learned Hand, after reviewing the various definitions of
aiding and abetting, said: "It will be observed that all these definitions
have nothing whatever to do with the probability that the forbidden
result would follow upon the accessory's conduct; and that they all
demand that he in some sort associate himself with the venture, that
he participate in it as in something that he wishes to bring about,
that he seek by his action to make it succeed. All the words usedeven the most colorless, 'abet'-carry an implication of purposive attitude towards it." United States v. Peoni, 100 F. 2d 401, 402.
2 Thus § 2833 (a) makes it an offense to "carry on the business of a
distiller without having given bond as required by law." Section 2834
makes it unlawful to make or ferment mash, fit for distillation, in any
building or on any premises other than an authorized distillery.
S,,.. . if you find that he was merely an underling, serving at the
beck and call of an employer and nothing more than [sic] that would
not justify your finding him to be engaged in the business of a distiller.
But if from the evidence you conclude logically that he aided and
abetted in the carrying on of this business, then he would be chargeable as a principal. .

.

. Aiding and abetting is something more than

merely committing an act which may have the effect of assisting -or
furthering a criminal transaction. Before a defendant can be held as
an aider and abetter the government must prove beyond a reasonable
doubt that he committed an act which furthered or assisted the criminal transaction, and at the time he committed the act he knew that
a crime was in process of commission, and with that knowledge he
acted with intent to aid and abet in the criminal transaction." While
the above charges were requested by defendant, we nevertheless feel
that the failure of the instructions to satisfy the standard we suggest
is an error which we should notice. Sibbach v. Wilson & Co., 312
U. S. 1, 16.

UTE INDIANS v. UNITED STATES.
160

169

Syllabus.

viction under count one, charging Bozza with aiding and
abetting in a tax fraud scheme.
In view of this conclusion, MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE reserves expression of opinion concerning the legality of the
sentence.
CONFEDERATED BANDS OF UTE INDIANS v.
UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 141.

Argued January 14, 15, 1947.-Decided February 17, 1947.

By a treaty of 1868 between 'the United States and the Ute Indians, a
reservation was established for the Indians in Colorado. Subsequently, an erroneous survey showed the northern boundary to be
south of the true boundary and as excluding the White River Valley
lands which actually were in the reservation. Believing the survey
to be accurate and desiring to preserve these lands for the use of the
Indians, the President, by an Executive Order of 1875, withdrew
from sale and "set apart for the use of the . . . Ute Indians, as an
addition to the present reservation in said Territory" a strip of land
north "of the present Ute Indian Reservation." Later, in order to
punish the Indians for a massacre, dispossess them of the reserva-.
tion, and remove them from Colorado, Congress passed the Act of
June 15, 1880, 21 Stat. 199, which.ratified and embodied an agreement by their leaders to cede to the United States all territory of
"the present Ute Reservation," and provided that all lands so ceded
and not allotted specifically to individual Indians would be restored
to the public domain for sale as lublic .lands and that, subject to
certain conditions, the proceeds of their sale should be distributed to
the Indians. An Executive Order of 1882 declared that the lands
"set apart for the use of the . . . Ute Indians" by the Executive
Order of 1875 is "hereby restored to the public domain." The Indians brought this suit under the Act of June 28, 1938, 52 Stat. 1209,
as amended, 55 Stat. 593, to obtain compensation for the lands north
of the original reservation made available to them by the Executive
Order of 1875. Held':
1. Insofar as the claim rests on -the Executive Order of 1875, it
cannot be sustained. P. 1Do.

