PYRAMID MOTOR CORP. v. ISPASS.

695

Syllabus.

PYRAMID MOTOR FREIGHT CORP. v.
ISPASS ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 41.

Argued October 22, 1946.-Decided March 31, 1947.

1. Where a notice of appeal has been duly filed in a district court
but the appeal has not b~en docketed and the transcript of record
has not been filed in the circuit court of appeals within the time
specified in Rule 73 (g) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure,
it is not an abuse of discretion for a circuit court of appeals to
take into consideration the substantiality of the *question to be
at issue on the merits of the appeal, in connection with all the
other circumstances before it, when refusing, under authority of
Rule 73 (a), to dismiss the appeal. Pp. 702-705.
2. After the Interstate Commerce Commission had defined specifically
the classes of employees of interstate motor carriers, including
"loaders," as to whom it "has power" under § 204 (a) of the Motor
Carrier Act to establish qualifications and maximum hours of service, certain employees of an interstate motor carrier sued under
§ 16 (b) of the Fair Labor Standards Act for overtime compensation under § 7. The employer defended on the ground that their
labor "consisted primarily of that of driver's helper and of loader,"
and that they were excluded by § 13 (b) (1) of the Fair Labor
Standards Act from the benefits of § 7. Held: The question
whether or not an individual employee is within any class of
employees as to which the Commission has power to establish
qualifications and maximum hours of service is to be determined
by the judicial process, and there is no occasion to suspend final
judgment pending further findings by the Commission. Pp. 705707.
3. This case is remanded to the district court for determination of
the status of the plaintiffs in accordance with the principles stated
in Levinson v. Spector Motor Service, ante, p. 649, and the following
principles:
(a) In applying § 204 of the Motor Carrier Act to plaintiffs,
the district court will determine whether or not the activities of
each plaintiff, either as a whole or in substantial part, come within
; 'the Commission's definition of the work of a "loader." P. 707.

696

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Statement of the Case.

330 U. S.

(b) In making this determination, the district court shall not be
concluded by the name which may have been given to his position
or to the work that he does nor be required to find that any specific part of his time in any given week must have been spent in
those activities. P. 707.
(c) The district court shall give particular attention to whether
or not the activities of the respective plaintiffs included that kind
of "loading" which is held by the Commission to affect safety of
operation. Pp. 707-708.
(d) The mere handling of freight at a terminal, before or after
loading, or even the placing of certain articles of freight on a motor
carrier truck may form so trivial, casual or occasional part of
an employee's activities, or his activities may relate only to such
articles or to such limited handling of them, that his activities
will not come within the kind of "loading" which is described by
the Commission and which is found by it to affect safety of
operation. P. 708.
(e) If none of the alleged "loading" activities of the respective
plaintiffs, during the periods at issue, come within the kind of
activities which, according to the Commission, affect the safety
of operation, then such plaintiffs are entitled to the benefits of § 7
of the Fair Labor Standards Act. P. 708.
(f) If the whole or a substantial part of such alleged "loading"
activities of the respective plaintiffs, during the periods at issue,
does come within the kind of activities which, according to the Commission, affect safety of operation, such plaintiffs are excluded from
the benefits of § 7 of the Fair Labor Standards Act. P. 708.
(g) If some, but less. than a substantial part, of such activities
of the respective plaintiffs, during some or all of the periods at
issue, come within the kind of activities which, according to the
Commission, affect such safety of operation, then the question as
to the right of such plaintiffs to the benefits of § 7 of the Fair
Labor Standards Act is reserved, since it does not come within
the precise issue determined in Levinson v. Spector Motor Service,
ante, p. 649. Pp. 708-709.
152 F. 2d 619, judgment vacated in part and cause remanded.

In a suit brought by certain employees of an interstate
motor carrier under § 16 (b) of the Fair Labor Standards

Act for overtime compensation under § 7, a District Court
declined to determine plaintiffs' status under § 13 (b) (1)

PYRAMID MOTOR CORP. v. ISPASS.
695

Opinion of the Court.

and the Motor Carrier Act, but held the case "open for
further action," in order to give them an opportunity to
present that question to the Interstate Commerce Commission. 54 F. Supp. 565. Upon plaintiffs' refusal to
do so and their motion requesting a final disposition of the
case, the District Court dismissed the complaint "without
prejudice." 59 F. Supp. 341. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the dismissal as to one plaintiff and remanded the case to the District Court for entry of judgment in favor of the other plaintiffs. 152 F. 2d 619. This
Court granted certiorari. 327 U. S. 774. Except as to
one plaintiff, as to whom the judgment of dismissal was
not questioned here, the judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals is vacated in part and the cause is remanded
to the District Court for further proceedings. P. 709.
Charles E. Cotterill argued the cause and filed a brief
for petitioner.
Deane Ramey argued the cause and filed a brief for
respondents.
MR. JUSTICE BURTON delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case presents two issues:
I. Was it reversible error for the Circuit Court of Appeals to deny petitioner's motion to dismiss the appeal,
made on the ground that the appeal had not been docketed
and the transcript of record had not been filed within the
time specified in Rule 73 (g) of the Federal Rules of Civil
Procedure? We hold that it was not.
II. Under the principles we have stated in the companion case of Levinson v. Spector Motor Service, 330
U. S. 649, was the Circuit Court of Appeals justified in
remanding the present case to the District Court for entry
of a judgment under the Fair Labor Standards Act, in

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

favor of all of the respondents except Shapiro? We hold
that the case should be remanded, but with directions
to proceed in accordance with the opinion of this Court
in this case and the Levinson case. This will include
a direction to the District Court to determine whether
or not the activities of each respondent consisted, wholly
or in substantial part, of the class of work which is
defined by the Interstate Commerce Commission in
Ex parte No. MC-2, 28 M. C. C. 125, 133-134, as that
of a "loader" of freight for an interstate common carrier
by motor vehicle, and as affecting the safety of operation
of motor vehicles in interstate or foreign commerce.'
This action was begun in 1942 in the City Court of the
City of New York, pursuant to § 16 (b) of the Fair Labor
Standards Act.2 It sought to recover unpaid overtime
compensation for services rendered to the petitioner by
each of six of the eight respondents as "a delivery clerk
and 'push-boy'," during various periods between October
24, 1938, and September 20, 1941, computed in accordance with § 7 of the Fair Labor Standards Act,' together
with interest, liquidated damages and an attorney's fee.
The case was removed by the petitioner to the United
States District Court for the Southern District of New
York. The other two respondents there joined in the
complaint on like grounds. The petitioner answered that
it was an interstate common carrier of freight by motor
vehicle; that the labor performed by each of the respondents "consisted primarily of that of [a] driver's helper and
of [a] loader;" that, with respect to them, the Interstate
Commerce Commission had power to establish qualifications and maximum hours of service pursuant to § 204
of the Motor Carrier Act, 1935, and that, by virtue of

I See

Levinson v. Spector Motor Service, ante, p. 652, note 2.

2See Levinson v. Spector Motor Service, ante, p. 653, note 6.

3 See Levinson v. Spector Motor Service, ante, p. '653, note 5.

PYRAMID MOTOR CORP. v. ISPASS,
695

Opinion of the Court.

§ 13 (b) (1) of the Fair Labor Standards Act,' §7 of that
Act did not apply to the services of the respondents. The
case was submitted to the court upon an agreed statement
of facts.,
On November 29, 1943, the District Court rendered
an opinion in which it declined to determine the status of
See Levinson v. Spector Motor Service, ante, p. 653, note 4.
5 This included the following description of the work of the respondents as employees of the petitioner:
"Item 3. As to northbound freight the loaded vehicles would come
into New York in the very early morning hours to the West 11thj
Street Terminal where new drivers took charge of the vehicles, and
what were called downtown helpers rode on the vehicles with the
drivers to the 38th Street Terminal. At such terminal the doors of
the trucks were opened in the morni'ngs, both the driver and downtown helper remaining on the vehicles. As the downtown helper
pushed the freight packages over the tailboardsthey were received by
the plaintiffs [respondents], who then placed the freight packages
in the sub-terminal building. Still later in the mornings the plaintiffs
[respondents] then delivered the packages to various consignees in the
Garment Center, generally using for that purpose what are called
hand-trucks or flat trucks, using their own manpower for propulsion.
"During those same days other northbound trucks after first stopping at the West'llth Street main terminal to change a driver and
receive a downtown helper, by-passed the West 38th Street subterminal and parked first at one place and then another alongside the
curbs in the Garment Center. At those places the unloading operation was performed in the same way as at the sub-terminalhereinabove
described, and the plaintiffs [respondents] then made the deliveries
by hand or by hand trucks into the insides of the Garment Center
buildings.
"Item 4. In the late afternoons and early evenings freight originating with various consignors at various locations in the Garment
Center was 'picked up' for intended delivery the next morning in
Philadelphia or elsewhere south of New York. As to these southbound operations the facts were these: Some of the freight packages
would be picked up by the plaintiffs [respondents] at the consignor's
places of business in the Garment Center and hand-trucked by them
to the West 38th Street sub-terminal. At that place the plaintiffs
[respondents] themselves did, in due course, physically load the
freight packages into a waiting truck which, when loaded, took up

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

the respondents but held the case "open for further action"
in order to give the respondents an opportunity to present that question to the Interstate Commerce Commission. 54 F. Supp. 565, 569. Pursuant to respondents'
statement that they would not so apply to the Commission
and pursuant to their motion requesting a final disposition of the case, the court, on February 14, 1945, dismissed
the complaint "without prejudice." '
59 F. Supp. 341.
After considerable delay in the filing of the record on
this journey first to the West 11th Street main terminal, and then
with a new driver went on to the destinations south of New York.
A downtown employee other than the plaintiffs [respondents] would
also at the same time so load the vehicles.
"Other trucks for southbound loadings took their stations on the
public streets in the Garment Center where the plaintiffs [respondents] brought the packages by hand or by hand truck. The part
which the plaintiffs [reSpondents] took in such loading consisted of
the lifting of the packages on to the tailboards of the trucks, and very
often when the weights or size of the packages so requiredthey would
stand inside the truck bodies and, together with the downtown employee, stack and pile the freight in the vehicle.
"Item 5. As to all the plaintiffs [respondents] other than Shapiro
they generally walked between stopping points but occasionally rode
upon the trucks when the trucks moved from one place to another
in the Garment Center, thereby avoiding loss of time by walking. As
to the plaintiff Shapiro, he regularly and as a matter of fixed duty,
between August 1939 and September 1, 1941, rode on the truck between four and five hours daily. On the truck at the same time was
the driver and a helper from the downtown terminal. In addition
thereto the plaintiff Shapiro devoted three and a half hours each day
to inside office work at the 38tb Street sub-terminal." (Italics
supplied.)
6The order of dismissal appearing in the record was as follows:
"Ordered that the complaint be and the same hereby is dismissed
and that judgment be entered abating and dismissing said action,
without prejudice to the rights of plaintiffs [respondents], or any one
of them, to bring other actions or proceedings for the establishment
of their respective claims, either administratively or at an appropriate
time, by action in this court or other proper tribunal."

PYRAMID MOTOR CORP. v. ISPASS.
695

Opinion of the Court.

appeal, the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed the judgment of dismissal as to the respondent Shapiro on the ground that "he is a 'helper' within
the Commission's ruling in 28 M. C. C. at pages 135, 136."
152 F. 2d 619, 622. As to the other respondents, it reversed the judgment with costs and remanded the cause
"for entry of judgment in their favor and for allowance
of an attorney's fee." Id. at 622. The judgment as to
Shapiro has not been questioned and is not before us.
Because of its importance in the interpretation of the
Motor Carrier Act and the Fair Labor Standards Act, we
granted certiorari, 327 U. S. 774, and the case was argued
immediately following the Levinson case. A brief on behalf of the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division,
United States Department of Labor, as amicus curiae, was
filed jointly in this case and in the Levinson case, supporting the position of the respondents.!
7

See also, Walling v. Comet Carriers, 57 F. Supp. 1018, 151 F. 2d
107, 109; cert. granted, 326 U. S. 716; writ of certiorari dismissed
on motion of counsel for petitioner Comet Carriers, 328 U. S. 819.
That case, also in the Second Circuit, related to "four motor truck
drivers, four drivers' helpers and two hand truckers or pushers" employed by Comet Carriers in the transportation of goods between
manufacturers and contractors mostly on intrastate trips within

or near the New York City Garment Center. As to the hand truckers
or pushers, the District Court said: "they are not employed on motor
vehicles nor do their functions as employees affect or relate to the
safety of operation of the motor vehicles in interstate commerce."
57 F. Supp. 1018, 1023. The Circuit Court of Appeals discussed only

the drivers and drivers' helpers. As to them it said:
"Proof that two employees worked only three hours a week in inter-

state transportation and that two employees made 'some' and 'occasional' deliveries to the warehouses of chain stores and worked the
.remaining time in the production of goods for commerce does not
satisfy the requirement that the amount of time during which they
are engaged in interstate commerce be substantial." 151 F. 2d
107, 111.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

I.
Notice of appeal, dated March 29, 1945, was filed by
the respondents in the District Court April 2, 1945. In
spite of the applicable provisions of Rule 73 (g) of the
Federal Rules of Civil Procedure,8 respondents sought
from the District Court no extension of time within which
to docket their appeal or file a transcript of the record.
On July 20, 1945, more than 90 days from the date of
the first notice of appeal, respondents, pursuant to motion
supported by affidavit, secured from Circuit Judge Augustus N. Hand an order extending to September 1, 1945,
the time within which to serve and file their record on
appeal. On that date, the transcript of record was filed.
The petitioner promptly moved to dismiss the appeal
under Rule 73 (a) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure,9 questioning especially the right of a single member
8 "RuLE 73. APPEAL

TO A CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS.

"(g) DOCKETING AND RECORD ON APPEAL. The record on appeal
as provided for in Rules 75 and 76 shall be filed with the appellate
court and the action there docketed within 40 days from the date of
the notice of appeal;except that, when more than one appeal is taken
from the same judgment to the same appellate court, the district court
may prescribe the time for filing and docketing, which in no event
shall be less than 40 days from the date of the first notice of appeal.
In all cases the district court in its discretion and with or without
motion or notice may extend the time for filing the record on appeal
and docketing the action, if its order for extension is made before the
expiration of the period for filing and docketing as originally prescribed or as extended by a previous order; but the district court
shall not extend the time to a day more than 90 days from the date
of the first notice of appeal." 308 U. S. 752, 28 U. S. C. following
§723 (c).

9 "RULE 73.

APPEAL TO A CIRC.UIT COURT OF APPEALS.

"(a) How TAKEN. When an appeal is permitted by law from a
district court to a circuit court of appeals and within the time prescribed, a party may appeal from a judgment by filing with the
district court a notice of appeal. Failure of the appellant to take any

PYRAMID MOTOR CORP. v. ISPASS.
695

Opinion of the Court.

of that court to make the order of July 20. This motion
was denied October 10, 1945, Circuit Judges Learned
Hand, Swan and Clark speaking for the court. The
motion was renewed at the hearing on the merits of the
appeal and, on December 28, 1945, was denied again,
Circuit Judges Learned Hand, Swan and Frank speaking
for the court. 152 F. 2d 619. The issue was raised
properly and fully presented here.
The authority of a Judge of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit to extend the time for filing
the record on appeal appears to be supported by Rule 15
of that court.' That Rule, however, was not discussed
of the further steps to secure the review of the judgment appealed
from does not affect the validity of the appeal, but is ground only for
such remedies as are specified in this rule or, when no remedy is
specified, for such action as the appellate court deems appropriate,
which may include dismissal of the appeal."
308 U. S. 749, 28
U. S. C. following § 723 (c).
10 Rule 15, U. S. C. C. A., Second Circuit.
"DocKETING CASES.

"1. In an appeal in a civil action the appellant shall docket the
action and file the record in this court within forty days after filing
the notice of appeal with the District Court, or within any added time
granted by the district judge within forty days after the filing of the
notice of appeal, but in no case later than ninety days after such filing
(Rule 73 [g]). . . . If the record is not presented to the clerk for
filing within the periods above provided, he shall refuse to accept it
unless this court so orders, or a judge thereof if the court is not

sitting.
"2. This Court will not hear and grant motions for filing and docketing appeals, otherwise properly taken, at times other than as stated
in subdiiision 1 hereof, except upon a showing by affidavits, or otherwise as the Court may order, (a) that the delay has been due to cause
beyond the control of the moving party or (b) that the delay has been
due to circumstances which shall be deemed to be merely excusable
neglect on the part of the moving party and there is a substantial
question to be presented on appeal and (c) in all cases where the distiict court has power to act, that an extension of time has been denied

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

by counsel and we sustain the action taken by the Circuit
Court of Appeals under authority of Rule 73 (a), even
without reference to its own Rule 15.
The principal argument against the final action of the
Circuit Court of Appeals on this motion is based upon
the following statement in that court's opinion: "In the
case at bar there was no abuse of discretion in extending
the time, despite the somewhat feeble excuses for delay,
since the appeal presents a substantial question as to the
correctnessof the judgment." (Italics supplied.) 152 F.
2d 619, 621. It is urged that this shows that the court
based its refusal to dismiss the appeal on the substantiality of the question to be presented on the merits of
the appeal, rather than on the substantiality of the
excuses for the delay in filing the record.
We interpret the statement as no more than a recognition by the court that the substantiality of the question
to be at issue on the merits of the appeal was a matter
appropriate for its consideration under Rule 73 (a), in
all the other circumstances before it.
connection
.Rule 73 (a) with
is intended to place reliance upon the
sound
discretion of the Circuit Court of Appeals. We see no
by that court, together with the grounds for such denial, if any are
stated.
"3. If the appellant shall have failed to comply with this rule, any
appellee may either docket the action and file the record in this Court,
in which event it shall stand for argument, or may have the action
docketed and dismissed by the Clerk of this Court upon producing
a certificate from the Clerk of the Court wherein the judgment or
decree was rendered, certifying that such appeal has been duly taken
or allowed, and proof that four days' notice in writing has been
served on the appellant or his attorney that application will be made
to the Clerk of this Court for such dismissal. No action dismissed
under this rule shall be reinstated except in the discretion of the Court
and upon a showing similar to that required under subdivision 2
hereof." (Italics supplied.) 11 U. S. Sup. Ct. Rep. Digest, L. Ed.,
Supp. No. 4, p, 55.

PYRAMID MOTOR CORP. v. ISPASS.
695

705

Opinion of the Court.

reason to question the discretion exercised in this case
as evidenced by the agreement of all of the five Circuit
Judges to whom the issue was presented. Ainsworth v.
Gill Glass & Fixture Co., 104 F. 2d 83; .Mutual Benefit
Health & Accident Assn. v. Snyder, 109 F. 2d 469; Burke
v. Canfield, 72 App. D. C. 127, 111 F. 2d 526; United
States v. Gallagher,151 F. 2d 556.
Accordingly, we sustain the denial of the motion to
dismiss the appeal under Rule 73 (a).
II.
On the merits, the question is whether or not the Circuit
Court of Appeals was justified in remanding this case with
instructions to enter a judgment under the Fair Labor
Standards Act in favor of all of the respondents except
Shapiro. We hold that the cause should be remanded but
that the order of remand should be modified. This case
was tried, without a jury, entirely upon an agreed 'statement of facts and a pre-trial agreement betweeri the
parties, approved by the District Court, settling the
issues to be determined. For the sake of clarity, we have
proceeded on the same basis and have treated the case
as though, upon remand of it to the District Court, that
court will proceed upon the same record. This, however,
should not be interpreted as necessarily restricting that
court to that record if, for good cause, that court should
find it advisable to retry the case de novo. 11
•nThe District Court, in its order of February 14, 1945, described
the basis on which the case had been tried as follows:
". .. on the 3rd day of May, 1943, and the parties hereto having
duly appeared by their respective attorneys, and submitted to the
Court, in lieu of the offering of proof, an agreed statement of facts
setting forth the issues framed by the complaint, and the Court, upon
the consent of the attorneys for the respective parties, having thereupon made and entered an order herein on the said 3rd day of May,
1943, wherein and whereby the said agreed statement of facts which

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

Under the agreed statement there was no question but
that the FAir Labor Standards Act applied to each respondent provided only that he was not found to have
been excluded from the overtime pay requirements of
that Act by § 13 (b) (1) because of being an "employee with respect to whom the Interstate Commerce Commission has power to establish qualifications
and maximum hours of service pursuant to the provisions of section 204 of the Motor Carrier Act, 1935; .....
52 Stat. 1068, 29 U. S. C. § 213 (b) (1). There thus will
remain to be determined by the District Court the question whether the activities of the respective respondents
consisted, either wholly or in substantial part, of the
class of work which is defined by the Interstate Commerce Commission in Ex parte No. MC-2, 28 M. C. C.

125, 133-134, as that of a "loader," and as affecting the
safety of operation of motor vehicles in interstate or
foreign commerce.12
It will remain for the District Court to apply the facts
found by it as to the activities of the respective respondents to the classifications of work that have been
made by the Interstate Commerce Commission, defining
what comes within the jurisdiction of the Commission
under § 204 of the Motor Carrier Act. The Commission
has defined its jurisdiction, both affirmatively and negatively, as follows:
i... we have power, under section 204 (a) of
said part II, to establish qualifications and maximum
hours of service for the classes of employees covered
by findings of fact numbered 1, 2, and 3 above [mewere submitted by the attorneys for the respective parties, as afore.said, was set forth as the issues framed by the complaint and answer,
and the said action having been submitted to the Court for its determination upon the said agreed statement of facts and order hereinbefore mentioned and referred to....
"
12 See Levinson v. Spector Motor Service, ante, p. 652, note 2.

PYRAMID MOTOR CORP. v. ISPASS.
695

707

Opinion of the Court.

chanics, loaders and helpers], and . . . we have no

such power over any other classes of employees,
except drivers." Ex parte No. MC-2, 28 M. C. C.
125,139.8

Under these circumstances, there is no occasion for us
to refer to the Commission any question presented in this
case nor to suspend the long-delayed final judgment
pending further findings by the Commission. The Commission has done its work. The District Court must determine simply whether or not the respective employees
who seek to recover overtime compensation under § 7 are
excluded from the benefits of that Section because they
are within the above classification. The special knowledge and experience required to determine what classifications of work affect safety of operation of interstate
motor carriers have been applied by the Commission.
Whether or not an individual employee is within any
such classification is to be determined by judicial
process.
The District Court, in applying § 204 of the Motor
Carrier Act to respondents, will determine whether or not
the activities of each respondent, either as a whole or in
substantial part, come within the Commission's definition of the work of a "loader." In determining whether
the activities, or any substantial part of the activities,
of an individual come within those of such a "loader,"
the District Court shall not be concluded by the name
which may have been given to his position or to the work
that he does, nor shall the District Court be required
to find that any specific part of hig time in any given week
must have been spent in those activities. The District
,Court shall give particular attention to whether or not
1

The findings of fact referred to by the Commission, insofar as
they relate to loaders, are those quoted in the text of Levinson v.
Spector Motor Service, ante, p. 669, at note 17.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

the activities of the respective respondents included that
kind of "loading" which is held by the Commission to
affect safety of operation. In contrast to the loading
activities in the Levinson case, the mere handling of
freight at a terminal, before or after loading, or even the
placing of certain articles of freight on a motor carrier
truck may. form so trivial, casual or occasional a part of
an employee's activities, or his activities may relate only
to such articles or to such limited handling of them, that
his activities will not come within the kind of "loading"
which is described by the Commission and which, in its
opinion, affects safety of operation. See also, McKeown
v. Southern California Freight Forwarders,49 F. Supp.
543. Except insofar as the Commission has found that
the activities of drivers, mechanics, loaders and helpers,
as defined by it, affect safety of operation, it has disclaimed its power to establish qualifications or maximum
hours of service under § 204 of the Motor Carrier Act.
If none of the alleged "loading" activities of the respective respondents, during the periods at issue, come
within the kind of activities which, according to the Commission, affect the safety of operation of motor vehicles
in interstate or foreign commerce within the meaning of
the Motor Carrier Act, then those respondents of which
that is true are entitled to the benefits of § 7 of the Fair
Labor Standards Act. On the other hand, if the whole
or a substantial part of such alleged "loading" activities
of the respective respondents, during the periods at issue,
does come within the kind of activities which, according
to the Commission, affect such safety of operation, then
those respondents who were engaged in such activities
are excluded from the benefits of such § 7. If some, but
less than a substantial part, of such activities of the respective respondents, during some or all of the periods
at issue, come within the kind of activities which, according to the Commission, affect such safety of opera-

U. S. v. OGILVIE HARDWARE CO.
695

Syllabus.

tion, then the right of those respondents who were
engaged in such activities to receive the benefits of § 7
of the Fair Labor Standards Act does not come within
the precise issue determined in the Levinson case and
this Court reserves its decision as to the power of the

Commission to establish qualifications and maximum
hours of service with respect to them and, consequently,
reserves its decision as to their right to receive the bene-

fits of § 7 of the Fair Labor Standards Act.
For these reasons, the judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals is vacated insofar as it relates to the respondents other than Shapiro, and the cause is remanded to the

District Court for further proceedings consistent with this
opinion.
It isso ordered.

UNITED STATES v. OGILVIE HARDWARE CO.,
INC.
CERTIORARI

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 430. Argued March 5,1947.-Decided April 7, 1947.
A corporation, organized with a paid-in capital of $100,000, increased
its capitalization in 1924 to $200,000 by declaration of a $100,000
stock dividend out of past earnings. Thereafter, operating losses
created a deficit in total capitalization, the deficit being about
$71,000 in 1937 but being reduced to about $61,000 by 1938. With
this deficit, the corporation was forbidden by state law to pay any
dividends and it refrained from doing so. The Commissioner of
Internal Revenue assessed, and the Company paid, 'undistributed
profits taxes under § 14 of -the Revenue Act of 1936 for its fiscal
years ending in 1937 and 1938. The corporation sued for a refund
of these taxes under § 26 (c) (3) of the Revenue Act of 1936, as
added by § 501 (a) (3) of the Revenue Act of 1942, claiming to
be a corporation having "a deficit in accumulated earnings and
profits" within the meaning of that section. Held: The corporation is entitled to the refund. Pp. 713-719.

