U. S. v. OGILVIE HARDWARE CO.
695

Syllabus.

tion, then the right of those respondents who were
engaged in such activities to receive the benefits of § 7
of the Fair Labor Standards Act does not come within
the precise issue determined in the Levinson case and
this Court reserves its decision as to the power of the

Commission to establish qualifications and maximum
hours of service with respect to them and, consequently,
reserves its decision as to their right to receive the bene-

fits of § 7 of the Fair Labor Standards Act.
For these reasons, the judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals is vacated insofar as it relates to the respondents other than Shapiro, and the cause is remanded to the

District Court for further proceedings consistent with this
opinion.
It isso ordered.

UNITED STATES v. OGILVIE HARDWARE CO.,
INC.
CERTIORARI

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 430. Argued March 5,1947.-Decided April 7, 1947.
A corporation, organized with a paid-in capital of $100,000, increased
its capitalization in 1924 to $200,000 by declaration of a $100,000
stock dividend out of past earnings. Thereafter, operating losses
created a deficit in total capitalization, the deficit being about
$71,000 in 1937 but being reduced to about $61,000 by 1938. With
this deficit, the corporation was forbidden by state law to pay any
dividends and it refrained from doing so. The Commissioner of
Internal Revenue assessed, and the Company paid, 'undistributed
profits taxes under § 14 of -the Revenue Act of 1936 for its fiscal
years ending in 1937 and 1938. The corporation sued for a refund
of these taxes under § 26 (c) (3) of the Revenue Act of 1936, as
added by § 501 (a) (3) of the Revenue Act of 1942, claiming to
be a corporation having "a deficit in accumulated earnings and
profits" within the meaning of that section. Held: The corporation is entitled to the refund. Pp. 713-719.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Counsel for Parties.

330 U. S.

(a) The 1942 amendment was designed to grant corporations
a refund on account of payments of undistributed profits taxes
for tax years in which they had an accumulated deficit, and where,
for that reason, state law, federal law, or public regulatory orders
of either prohibited distribution of dividends. P. 713.
(b) It was an extraordinary relief measure, and its language,
the circumstances which prompted its passage, and the very mechanics of the amendment, itself require that determination of
rights to refund under it be based on consideration of something
other than the established meaning under federal tax law of the
word "deficit" and the phrase "accumulated earnings and profits."
Pp. 714-719.
(c) Congress at least intended to refund taxes imposed on corporations which had failed to distribute dividends when distribution, in violation of state law, would have impaired long-existing
state-approved corporate capitalizations. P. 719.
155 F. 2d 577, affirmed.

A District Court awarded a judgment under § 501 (a)
(3) of the Revenue Act of 1942, 56 Stat. 798, to a corporation for refund of undistributed profits taxes paid
while the corporation's capital was impaired, although
half the capital had resulted from a stock dividend paid
out of past earnings. 62 F. Supp. 338. The Circuit Court
of Appeals affirmed. 155 F. 2d 577. This Court granted
certiorari. 329 U. S. 699. Affirmed, p. 719.
Lee A. Jackson argued the cause for the United States.
With him on the brief were Acting Solicitor General
Washington, Sewall Key, Stanley M. Silverberg and
Helen R. Carloss.
Elias Goldstein argued the cause for respondent. With
him on the brief was H. C. Walker, Jr.
Briefs were filed as amici curiae by Milton R. Schlesinger for the Vaughn Machinery Co.; F. EberhartHaynes,
U. E. Wild and J. Marvin Haynes for the Hawaiian Canneries Co., Ltd.; and John E. Hughes, urging affirmance.

U. S. v. OGILVIE HARDWARE CO.
709

Opinion of the Court.

MR.JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.

This is a suit for tax refund which the District Court
allowed. 62 F. Supp. 338. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed. 155 F. 2d 577. We granted certiorari
because of an apparent conflict with Century Electric
Co. v. Commissioner, 144 F. 2d 983.
The respondent, Ogilvie Hardware Co., Inc., was incorporated in Louisiana in 1907 with a paid-in capital of
$100,000. In 1924 it increased its capitalization to
$200,000 by declaration of a $100,000 stock dividend out
of past earnings. Depressed business conditions during
the 1930's brought heavy operating losses so that by 1937
the company's assets were about $71,000 less than the
$200,000 'capitalization. The company books accordingly showed a deficiin this amount. By 1938 this
deficit was reduced to about $61,000. In this financial
posture the corporation could not declare dividends without impairing its then capital structure (which included
capitalization of the $100,000 stock dividend) and
Louisiana law prohibitvd payment of a dividend under
such circumstances.1 Section 14 of the governing Rev"I No corporation shall pay dividends in cash or property, (a) except from the surplus of the aggregate of its assets over the aggregate
of its liabilities,.plus the amount of its capital stock; or (b) out of any
surplus due or arising from (1) any profit on treasury shares before
resale; or (2) any unrealized appreciation in value or revaluation of

fixed assets; or (3) any unrealized appreciation in value or revaluation of inventories before sale; or (4) the unaccrued portion of unrealized profit on notes, bonds or obligations for the payment of money,
purchased or otherwise acquired, unless such notes, bonds or obligations are readily marketable, in which case they may be taken at their
actual market value; or (5) the unaccrued or unearned portion of any
unrealized profit in any form whatever, whether in the form of notes,
bonds, obligations for the payment of money, installment sales, credits
or otherwise, except as provided in the preceding sub-paragraph (4).
"III. No corporation shall pa, dividends in shares of the corpora-

712

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

enue Act of 1936 imposed a surtax on certain corporate
net income earned during the tax year but not distributed
as dividends 2 It provided no exemption from that surtax
because a corporation had an accumulated deficit at the
beginning of the tax year, or beoause state law prohibited
payments of dividends.
Acting under this 1936 law, the Commissioner, on examination of respondent's 1937 and 1938 tax returns,
determined that respondent was subject to the undistributed profits tax, despite the deficit and the state prohibition against payment of dividends. The Commissioner's interpretation and application of the 1936 Act was
in accord with our holding in Helvering v. Northwest Steel
Rolling Mills, 311 U. S. 46, and Crane-JohnsonCo. v. Helvering, 311 U. S.54. The taxpayers in those cases claimed
exemption from the surtax on the ground that they could
not distribute dividends "without violating a provision of
a written contract executed by the corporation prior to
May 1, 1936, which provision expressly deals with the payment of dividends." Section 26 (c) (1) of the 1936 Act
relieved corporations from the tax if such contracts existed. 49 Stat. 1648, 1664. The question we had to decide in those cases was whether a state constitution, corporate charter, or state statute, which prohibited payment
of dividends, was a "written contract" within the meaning
of the § 26 (c) (1) exemption provision. We held that we
could not so expand the provision's language, relying in
part upon previous statements of this Court "that provisions granting special tax exemptions are to be strictly
construed." Helverng v. Northwest Steel Rolling Mills,
supra,49. Since the respondent here had no "written contion, except from the .surplus of the aggregate of its assets .. .over
the aggregate of its liabilities, plus the amount of its capital stock."
La. Acts 1928, No. 250, § 26, 1,-111, 1 La. Gen. Stat. § 1106.
249 Stat. 1648, 1655-1657.

U. S. v. OGILVIE HARDWARE CO.
709

Opinion of the Court.

tract" against payment of dividends, it had no exemption
from the surtax imposed by the original 1936 Act.
But this suit is not brought to determine the company's tax liability under the 1936 Act as it stood in the
taxable years 1937 and 1938. It is an action for a refund
under a 1942 relief amendment to the 1936 Act specifically
designed to authorize corporations to obtain repayments
of taxes they had been forced to pay under the 1936 Act
as we had interpreted it. That amendment, as enacted,
provided for complete or partial retroactive immunity
from the 1936 undistributed profits tax under the following
circumstances:
"DEFICIT CORPORATIONS.-In the case of a corporation having a deficit in accumulated earnings and
profits as of the close of the preceding taxable year,
the amount of such deficit, if the corporation is prohibited by a provision of a law or of an order of a
public regulatory body from paying dividends during the existence of a deficit in accumulated earnings
and profits, and if such provision was in effect prior
to May. 1, 1936." § 501 (a) (3), Revenue Act of
1942,56 Stat. 798,954.
This amendment was designed to grant corporations
a refund on account of payments of undistributed profits
taxes for tax years in which they had an accumulated
deficit, and where, for that reason, state law, federal law,
or public regulatory orders of either prohibited distribution of dividends. It therefore authorized refunds to
the very taxpayers who had been lawfully required to
pay taxes by the 1936,Act as we had interpreted it in the
two cases cited above. Furthermore, in order to make
sure that taxpayers who had paid under our interpretationi might recover refunds, § 501 (c) of the same amendment specifically authorized claims for repayment to be
filed within one year after its passage, without regard to

714

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

any statute of limitations or other designated statutory
bars. 56 Stat. 798,955.
The Government's contention is that we should construe the word "deficit" and the phrase "accumulated earnings and profits" according to their established meaning
under federal tax law; that so construed the $100,000
allotted for stock dividends remained a part of earnings
and profits for tax purposes; therefore, there was no deficit
in the federal tax sense, and consequently the tax payments should not have been refunded here despite, the
state prohibition against distribution, We may assume
that the Government is correct in contending that if Congress intended in the 1942 amendment to use the words
"deficit" and "earnings and profits" in this federal tax
sense, the stock dividend did not reduce "earnings," there
was no "deficit," and the refund should be denied. See
§ 115, Revenue Act of 1936, 49 Stat. 1648, 1687-1689;
Commissioner v. Bedford, 325 U. S. 283, 292. This construction would greatly limit the scope of the relief granted
by the 1942 amendment. To determine whether Congress
intended so to limit the relief it granted, we must look to
the whole 1942 amendment in its relationship to the 1936
Act and the legislative and judicial history intervening
between the two.
The 1936 undistributed profits tax law was a novelty in
the field of federal taxation. Its chief novel feature was
that it was designed to compel corporations to distribute
current earnings to shareholders by imposing a surtax on
corporations which failed to make such distributions. It
had*detailed provisions for defining the net income which
would be reached by this tax. Its application, therefore,
raised new and sometimes wholly unexpected problems.
Widespread opposition developed to-the tax. Since 1938,
only a token of it has survived. See Revenue Act of 1938,
52 Stat. 447. But even after the 1936 undistributed profits tax was no longer in effect, complaints about its prior

U. S. v. OGILVIE HARDWARE CO.
709

Opinion of the Court.

application from corporations which had been required to

pay an undistributed profits tax continued to reach and
to concern Congress. Representatives of these corporations appeared before the House and Senate Committees
in 1942, and Congress responded to their complaints by
enacting the several provisions of § 501-the retroactive
relief legislation now under consideration.
One subject of complaint was that under the income tax
definitions only a fraction of capital losses was deductible
from taxable net income. Corporations which had suffered large capital losses in a given year were required to
pay undistributed profits taxes in that year as though they
had made a profit. The 1942 amendment, as reported by
the House Committee, met this complaint by recommending that refunds be authorized for corporations who had
paid under this 1936 definition of net income.' This authorization, subsequently approved by the Senate Committee,' clearly shows that Congress intended to providt
for this phase of the refund without regard to tax definitions, and did not intend its authorized refund to
be restricted by the application of established tax
terminology.
When the bill reached the Senate Committee, insistent
complaints related to the fact that corporations with defi8

The House Ways and Means Committee reported that § 501
of the 1942 Act allowed corporations to deduct capital losses from their
capital assets for purposes of the undistributed profits tax even though
only $2,000 of such capital loss was deductible from gross income for

other purposes.
Another amendment provided a stock redemption credit deductible
from gross income taxable for undistributed profits tdx purposes.
And the breadth of the refund provision is illustrated by the pro
visions making the amendment effective as of the date the 1936 Act
was enacted, and extending the Statute of Limitations to permit
refunds for all overpayments since that date. H. R. Rep. 2333,
77th Cong., 2d Sess., 170 (1942.
'Sen. Rep. No. 1631, 77th Cong, 2d Sess., 244, 245 (1942).

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

cits in -accumulated earnings and profits had been compelled to pay taxes for non-distribution of dividends although state or federal law prohibited dividend payments.
A deficit railroad corporation had been taxed over its objection that payment of dividhnds would have rendered
its officers subject to punishment for a misdemeanor under
federal law and a money penalty under state law. The
Board of Tax Appeals had overruled objections on these
grounds, relying on our decisions in the Crane-Johnson
and Northwest Steel cases, supra. Paris & Mt. Pleasant
R. Co. v. Comm'r, 47 B. T. A. 439.5 The counsel who had

represented Crane-Johnson before this Court also
peared on their behalf before the Senate Committee
made a plea for relief for deficit corporations which
been compelled to pay the undistributed profits tax.'

apand
had
He

5 Hearings before Senate Committee on Finance on Revenue Act of
1942, 77th Cong., 2d Sess., 2343-2345 (1942). Counsel for another
deficit railroad corporation pointed out that under governing state
law that railroad's officers would have been liable for a penalty of
double the damages to anyone harmed. Id. at 1422.
6 Statement of Mr. John E. Hughes:
"Next I have a statement on behalf of Crane Johnson Co. that section 501 of the House bill should be simplified. That point is this:
If a corporation was forbidden by State law to declare a dividend
because its capital stock was impaired, it could not avoid the undistributed profits tax enacted in 1936 and was caught in a trap. A rich
corporation could. It could declare a dividend and avoid it. Surely
you would not discriminate against a poor one.
"Furthermore, if it had an impairment of capital stock and was
organized under the laws of about one-third of the States where corporations in such condition are allowed to declare dividends, a dividend
would be a return of capital to the shareholder and no credit for the
undistributed profits tax would be given.
"There is no reason for granting relief retroactively in the limited
cases which may be held to be covered by the vague and ambiguous
language of section 501 of the House bill without granting relief in
these cases also.
"The language of section 501 is vague and ambiguous and ought to
be simplified. In 1938 relief was granted as soon as this situation was
1rought to the attention of Congress, but unfortunately was not made

U. S. v. OGILVIE HARDWARE CO.
709

Opinion of the Court.

urged that such corporations had been "caught in a trap,"
and that they were justly entitled to have a refund for
that reason. It was apparently in response to the foregoing complaints that the relief provision before us, not
part of the House bill as it came to the Senate,7 was introduced by the Senate Committee.' We think Congress
was moved to relieve those corporations which it considered to be "caught in a trap" whereby they were taxed by
the Federal Government if they did not pay dividends and
subject to prosecution and penalties by the Federal Government or the states if they did.
Some of the language Congress used, considered tax-'
wise only, provides plausible support for the interpretation
urged by the Government which would give the relief
amendment more limited scope. But the provision before us is not a general tax exemption to be interpreted
in the framework of a currently operating general revenue
law. It is a special retroactive relief measure to authorize repayment of taxes collected in previous years under
Arevenue law which had already been substantially abandoned. The language of this extraordinary relief measure
and the circumstances which prompted its passage convince us that Congress intended to provide refunds to
corporate taxpayers, with possible minor exceptions, who
had paid undistributed profits taxes as a choice between
conflicting state and federal compulsions.
Furthermore, the very mechanics of the 1942 amendment require that determination of rights to refund under
it be based on consideration of something other than the
tax meaning of the 1936 Act or other tax terminology.
The right to recovery in every case depends ultimately
upon whether federal law or federal regulatory bodies, or
retroactive to 1936. The House bill in section 501 properly makes it
retroactive to 1936, but is not phrased in simple enough language."
Hearing8, supra 1022. See also id. at 1306-1308.
See H. R. Rep., note 3, supra.
8
See Sen. Rep., note 4, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

state law or state regulatory bodies, prohibit payments
of dividends. In this case the ultimate right to refund
depends upon state law. Cf. Lyeth v. Hoey, 305 U. S. 188,
193. Before that right can be finally established, courts
must examine state law at least to the extent of determining (1) what is a "deficit"; (2) what are "accumulated
earnings and profits"; (3) what was the state law on these
questions prior to May 1, 1936; (4) whether payments of
dividends under these circumstances were prohibited by
state law. Acceptance of the Government's contention
would mean that courts administering the 1942 Act must
first determine whether a deficit exists under federal law;
if such a federal deficit exists, they must then turn to state
law to decide whether under it a deficit exists such as prohibits the payment of dividends. We do not think that
Congress intended the courts so to administer the 1942
amendment. The Government's argument that it does
relies heavily upon the Senate Committee Report.
We think the Senate Committee Report, as a whole,
leans toward the view we have taken of the purpose of the
law." But in one of the six illustrative examples of application of the new tax rplief provisions of the amendment,
9Sen. Rep. 1631, note 4, supra, outlining § 501 of the proposed
Revenue Act of 1942 stated:
"... [A] new paragraph . . .has been added, providing for an
additional credit in cases of corporations having a deficit in accumulated earnings and profits and prohibited by law from paying dividends, and .. .a new subsection has been added providing for a
stock redemption credit.
"Section 501 . . .grants relief from the undistributed-profits tax
for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1935, and prior to
January 1, 1938, by allowing as an additional credit in computing undistributed net income the portion of the adjusted net income which, in
certain instances, could not be distributed as a taxable dividend. ...
"Under section 14 of the Revenue Act of 1936 corporations in
general were subject to surtax at various rates from 7 to 27 percent of
their undistributed net income. In some instances State law or an
order of a public regulatory body prohibited payment -of dividends

U. S. v. OGILVIE HARDWARE CO.
709

719

FRANKFURTER, J., dissenting.

and in the subsequent Treasury Regulations, it was indicated that no tax credit should be allowed where a tax
deficit resulted from "prior capitalization of surplus in
the course of a nontaxable reorganization." 1o Aside from
the fact that corporate reorganizations and simple stock
dividends are quite different things, we find this one illustrative example insufficient to outweigh the considerations
which have governed our interpretation of the 1942
amendment.
We are persuaded that Congress at least intended by the
amendment to refund taxes imposed on corporations which
had failed to distribute dividends when distribution, in
violation of state law, would have impaired long-existing
state-approved corporate capitalizations. See United
States v. Byron Sash & Door Co., 150 F. 2d 44, 46. In
order that this purpose may be effected, the judgment of
the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,
REED joins, dissenting.

with whom MR. JUSTICE

The Revenue Act of 1936 imposed a surtax on undistributed corporate profits. Section 26 (c) (1) gave relief
during the existence of a deficit even though the corporation had current earnings and profits which would constitute undistributed net
income under the definition thereof in section 14 (a) (2). Such corporations were, therefore, subject to undistributed profits surtax even
though they were prohibited by law from paying dividends. The
addition of the new paragraph 3 to subsection (c) of section 26 to
provide an additional credit in the amount of the deficit in accumulated earnings and profits as of the close of the preceding taxable
year is intended to give relief in certain of these cases.
"Also under section 14 of the Revenue Act of 1936, it was possible
that the undistributed net income of a corporation might exceed
accumulated and current earnings and profits. In such case the tax
could not be avoided even if distributions were made to shareholders."
The amendment was to provide relief in this situation also.
10Id. at
246.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
FRANKFURTER, J.,

dissenting.

330 U. S.

from this surtax under defined circumstances.1 In Helvering v. Northwest Steel Mills, 311 U. S. 46, it was held
that although a restriction on the distribution of corporate
profits was imposed by State law, a credit for such withheld profits was not authorized by § 26 (c) (1). In reaching this conclusion, the Court took into account that it
"has been said many times that provisions granting special tax exemptions are to be strictly construed." Helvering v. Northwest Steel Mills, supra, at 49. By way of
relaxing the restricted scope which this Court gave to
exemption from the undistributed profits tax, Congress,
by the Revenue Act of 1942, substituted a new subdivision
(3) to § 26 (c) of the Revenue Act of 1936. This section
did not undo the Northwest Steel Mills doctrine. It did
not allow a deduction for profits forbidden to be distributed
by State law, as it had, in § 26 (c) (1), allowed credit for
profits undistributed because of a "written contract."
Congress gave relief for earnings forbidden to be distributed by State law only "In the case of a corporation having
a deficit in accumulated earnings and profits as of the close
of the preceding taxable year .... ..
1 49 Stat. 1648, 1664.

"In the case of a corporation the following credits shall be allowed
to the extent provided in the various sections imposing tax"(1) PROHIBITION ON PAYMENT OF DIVIDENDS. An amount equal to
the excess of the adjusted net income over the aggregate of the
amounts which can be distributed within the taxable year as dividends
without violating a provision of a writtei contract executed by the
corporation prior to May 1, 1936, which provision expressly deals

with the payment of dividends. If a corporation would be entitled to
a credit under this paragraph because of a contract provision and also
to one or more credits because of other contract provisions, only the
largest of such credits shall be allowed, and for such purpose if two or
more credits are equal in amount only one shall be taken, into
account."
2 Section 501 (a), Revenue Act of 1942, 56 Stat. 798, 954. "(3)
DEFICIT CoRPORATiON.-In the case of a corporation having a deficit

U. S. v. OGILVIE HARDWARE CO.
709

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

This is tax language and should be read in its tax sense.
We must not disregard the illumination of an authoritative tax lexicon in reading tax legislation. The language of the 1942 amendment carries with it tax usage,
tax practice, and the gloss of authoritative legislative history. All combine to make the condition under which
State law prohibiting distribution of profits comes into
play, that which Congress in words of art said was the
condition, namely, the existence of "a deficit in accumulated earnings and profits." Here there was no deficit in
the controlling sense of the term. And nothing warrants
the attribution of a non-technical meaning to so settled
a technical term. Nothing, that is, except the suggestion
that to give the 1942 amendment this established meaning might not afford the relief that, as a matter of abstract
justice, should be afforded. But this is merely an attempt
to invoke what has been called the "equity" of a statute.
I am no friend of artificial canons of construction, and
I would not strain language in order to construe tax
exemptions strictly. On the other hand, Revenue Acts
are not the kind of legislation which should be loosely
construed in order to grant exemptions.
The legislative history of this enactment and the admin-.
istrative practice only reenforce what seems to me to be the
compelling requirement, to render technical terms used by
Congress with their technical meaning. If it be suggested
that counsel for taxpayers at a Congressional hearing
urged the fairness of the construction which the Court
now places upon what Congress has expressed, it would
not be the first time that the final legislation of Congress
did not satisfy the desire of some of its proponents. In
in accumulated earnings and profits as of the close of the preceding
taxable year, the amount of such deficit, if the corporation is prohibited by a provision of a law or of an order of a public regulatory
body from paying dividends during the existence of a deficit in accumulated earnings and profits, and if such provision was in effect prior
to May 1, 1936."

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

330 U. S.

any event, I do not think the argument of counsel for a
taxpayer urging relief should carry more weight than the
use by Congress of settled tax language, carrying a meaning which excludes that result, a meaning which is reenforced by the legislative, judicial and administrative history that led up to and followed the enactment. See
Century Electric Co. v. Commissioner, 144 F. 2d 983,
affirming the Tax Court, 3 T. C. 297; S. Rep. No. 1631,
77th Cong., 2d Sess., pp. 244-46; Treasury Regulations
94 and 101, Art. 115-11; Treasury Regulations 103,
§ 19.115-11; Treasury Regulations 111, § 29.115-11.
The short of the matter is, that even though corporate
profits here were withheld because Louisiana forbade their
distribution, there can be no credit allowed for a deficit
because in a federal tax sense there was no deficit.
No doubt Congress, to some extent, desired to relieve
from the undistributed profits tax corporations forbidden
by State law from declaring dividends. But neither what
Congress enacted nor its legislative history indicates a
purpose to disregard the limiting provisions of § 115 (h) of
the Revenue Act of 1936.1 This section, which embodies
the analysis of Commissioner v. Sansome, 60 F. 2d 931,
349

Stat. 1648, 1688-89.

§ 115 (h):

"EFFECT ON EARNINGS AND

distribution (whether before January 1, 1936, or on or after such date) to a distributee by or
on behalf of a corporation of its stock or securities or stock or securities in another corporation shall not be considered'a distribution of
earnings or profits of any corporation"(1) if no gain to such distributee from the receipt of such stock
or securities was recognized by law, or
"(2) if the distribution was not subject to tax in the hands of such
distributee because it did not constitute income to him within the
meaning of the Sixteenth Amendment to the Constitution or because
exempt to him under section 115 (f) of the Revenue Act of 1934 or a
corresponding provision of a prior Revenue Act. As used in this subsection the term 'stock or securities' includes rights to acquire stock
PROFITS OF DISTRIBUTIONS OF STOCK.-The

or securities."

U. S. v. OGILVIE HARDWARE CO.
709

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

see S. Rep. 2156, 74th Cong., 2d Sess., p. 19, requires that
in respect to federal taxes, assets be treated as available
for distribution as earnings regardless of stock dividends
which capitalize earnings and profits. H. Rep. No. 2894,
76th Cong., 3d Sess., p. 41, cited in Commissioner v.
Wheeler, 324 U. S. 542, 546. The specific example cited
by the Senate Committee Report on § 501 of the Revenue
Act of 1942 shows that Congress intended to limit the relief
afforded by the amendment to cases where the deficit in
question had not resulted from the capitalization of accumulated earnings and profits.' The majority finds a
difference between capitalization of earnings in a nontaxable reorganization and capitalization of earnings by a.
simple stock dividend. The circumstances are different
but the difference is not significant for the legal effect of the
stock dividend on earnings and profits. The example
given is concerned with the effect of capitalizing earnings
and profits, not with the method. If Congress meant to.
relieve undistributed earnings and profits even though
those earnings and profits were considered available under
§ 115 (h), it should have said so.
We think the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
should be reversed.
4 S. Rep. No. 1631, 77th Cong., 2d Sess., pp. 245-46:

"(1) The X corporation for the calendar year 1936 had an adjusted
net income of $200,000 ....
"(2) Assume in the above example that the deficit in accumulated
earnings and profits is $20,000 for income tax purposes, but the deficit

in accumulated earnings and profits on the corporation's books by
reason of a prior capitalization of surplus in the course of a nontaxable
reorganization amounts to $250,000. In this case, although the State
law would probably prohibit payment of any dividends, the credit
allowed under the amendment to section 26 (c) is limited to $20,000,
which is the deficit in accumulated earnings and profits for income tax
purposes. X corporation, therefore, will be liable for undistributed
profits surtax on $180,000 of its adjusted net income."

