238

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
330 U. S.

Syllabus.

mands of the work of this Court preclude an independent
canvass of a record of thirteen volumes, containing more
than 5000 pages. Two judges below who had gone over
this mass of evidence reached opposite conclusions regarding its sufficiency to support the Board's findings. For
the determination of this issue we remand the case to the
Circuit Court of Appeals.
Reversed and remanded.

UNITED STATES v..POWELL
NO. 56.

ET AL.,

RECEIVERS.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FOURTH CIRCUIT.*

Argued January 13, 1947.-Decided March 3, 1947.
1. Section 321 (a) of the Transportation Act of 1940 provides that
commercial rates shall be applicable to transportation of property
for the United States, excepting "military or naval property of the
United States moving for military or naval and not for civil use."
Held: Phosphate rock.and superphosphate which were property of
the United States, and which were transported in 1941 on consignment to the British Ministry of War Transport under the
Lend-Lease Act, but which were for use in Britain as farm fertilizer, were not within the exception and were not entitled to landgrant rather than commercial rates. Pp. 239-242, 247.
2. The .fact that the goods transported were "defense articles" under
the Lend-Lease Act did not of itself entitle them to land-grant rates
under § 321 (a). Pp. 242-245.
3. Although the exception in § 321 (a) is to be construed strictly in
favor of the United States, the standards of the Lend-Lease Act
are not to be read into the Transportlition Act. Pp. 243-244.
4. The property here involved was being transported for a "civil"
use within the meaning of § 321 (a), since it was destined for use
by civilian agencies in agricultural projects and not for use by the
armed services to satisfy any of their needs or wants or by any
civilian agency which acted as their adjunct or otherwise serviced
them in any of their activities. Pp. 245-247.
152 F. 2d 228, 230, affirmed.
*Together with No. 57, United States v. Atlantic Coast Line Railroadd Co., also on certiorari to the same Court.

UNITED STATES v. POWELL.
238

Opinion of the Court.

Respondents brought suits against the United States
under the Tucker Act, 36 Stat. 1091, to recover sums
allegedly due for transportation of government property.
The District Courts gave judgment for respondents. 60
F. Supp. 433 (No. 56). The Circuit Court of Appeals
affirmed. 152 F. 2d 228, 230. This Court granted certiorari. 328 U. S.826. Affirmed, p. 247.
Robert L. Werner argued the cause for the United
States. With him on the brief were Acting Solicitor
General Washington, Assistant Attorney General Sonnett,
Philip Elman, Paul A. Sweeney, Oscar H. Davis and
Hubert H. Margolies.
Thomas L. Preston argued the cause for respondents
in No. 56. With him on the brief was W. R. C. Cocke.
Thomas W. Davis argued the cause for respondent in
No. 57. With him on the brief was J. M. Townsend.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These cases involve controversies between the United
States and respondent carriers over the transportation
charges for shipments of government property in 1941.
In one case phosphate rock and superphosphate are involved; in the other, phosphate rock. In both the commodities were purchased by the United States, shipped
on government bills of lading over the lines of respondents,
and consigned to the British Ministry of War Transport.
They were exported to Great Britain underlthe LendLease Act of March 11, 1941, 55 Stat. 31, 22 U. S. C. Supp.
I, § 411 et seq., for use as farm fertilizer under Britain's
wartime program for intensified production of food. It is
agreed that these shipments were "defense articles" as
defined in § 2 of that Act.'
'The term includes "Any agricultural, industrial or other commodity or article for defense."

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

Respondents billed the United States for transportation
charges on these shipments at the commercial rate and
were paid at that rate. The Seaboard is a land-grant railroad. The Atlantic Coast Line is not; but it entered into
an equalization agreement with the United States in 1938
under which it agreed to accept land-grant rates for shipments which the United States could alternatively move
over a land-grant road.' The General Accouniing Office
excepted to these payments on the ground that land-grant
rates were applicable. The amounts of the alltged overpayments were deducted from subsequent bills concededly
due by the United States. Respondents thereupon instituted suits under the Tucker Act, 36 Stat. 1091, 1093, as
amended. 28 U. S. C. § 41 (20), to recover the amounts
withheld. The United States counterclaimed for the
difference between the amounts due under the commercial rate and those due under the land-grant rate
and asked that the difference be set off against the
-claims of respondents and that the complaints be dismissed. The District Courts gave judgment for respondents. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed. 152 F. 2d
228, 230. The cases are here on petitions for writs of
certiorari- which we granted because of the importance of
determining the controlling principle for settlement of the
many claims of this character against the Government.
For years the land-grant rate was fifty per cent of the
commercial rate and was applicable to the transportation
2 The points from which the phosphate was moved by the Atlantic
Coast Line are also stations on the Seaboard Line. Hence the United
States is entitled to secure land-grant deductions from the Atlantic
Coast Line if the Seaboard would have been subject to land-grant
rates on those articles.
Since the .land-grant rates were substantially lower than the commercial rates, roads which competed with the land-grant lines were
unable to get the government business. For that reason they entered
into equalization agreements. See Southern Ry. Co. v. United States,
322 U. S. 72, 73-74.

UNITED STATES v. POWELL.
238

.245

Opinion of the Court.

§ 321 (a) of the Transportation Act was couched in different terms. In other parts of that Act,' as in many
other congressional enactments passed during the period,
the exigencies of national defense constituted the standard to govern administrative action. But the standard
written into § 321 (a) did not reflect the necessities of
national defense or the demands which total war makes on
an economy. It used more conventional language-"military or naval" use as contrasted to "civil" use. That
obviously is not conclusive on the problem of interpretation which these cases present. But in light of the
environment in which § 321 (a) was written we are reluctant to conclude that Congress meant "all property of the
United States transported for the national defense" when
it used more restrictive language.
In the second place, the language of § 321 (a) emphasizes a distinction which would be largely obliterated
if the requirements of national defense, accentuated by
a total war being waged in other parts of the world,
were read into it. Section 321 (a) uses "military or naval"
use in contrast to "civil" use. Yet if these fertilizer shipments are not for "civil" use, we would find it difficult
to hold that like shipments by the Government to farmers
in this country during the course of the war were for "civil"
use. For in total war food supplies of allies are pooled;
and the importance of maintaining full agricultural production in this country if. the war effort was to be successful, cannot be gainsaid. When the resources of a
nation are mobilized for war, most of what it does is for
a military end-whether it be rationing, or increased industrial or agricultural production, price control, or the
12 Thus § 1 emphasized the policy in establishing a national transportation system adequate, inter alia, to meet the needs "of the
national defense."

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

host of other familiar activities. But in common parlance, such activities are civil, not military. It seems to
us that Congress marked that distinction when it wrote
§ 321 (a). If that is not the distinction, then "for military or naval and not for civil use" would have to be read
"for military or naval use or for civil use which serves the
national defense." So to construe § 321 (a) would, it
seems to us, largely or substantially wipe out the line
which Congress drew and, in time of war, would blend
"civil" and "military" when Congress undertook to separate them. Yet § 321 (a) was designed as permanent
legislation, not as a temporary measure to meet the exigencies of war. It was to supply the standard by which rates
for government shipments were to be determined at all
times-in peace as well as in war. Only if the distinction
between "military" and "civil" which common parlAnce
marks is preserved, will the statute have a constant meaning whether shipments are made in days of peace, at times
when there is hurried activity for defense, or during a
state of war.
In the third place, the exception in § 321 (a) extends
not only to the transportation of specified property for
specified uses. It extends as well to "the transportation
of members of the military or naval forces of the United
States (or of property of such members) when such members are traveling on official duty . . . ." That clause
plainly does not include the multitude of civilians employed by the Government during the war and exclusively
engaged in furthering the war effort, whether they be lendlease officials or others. 3 Thus, the entire except clause
13 The provision under land-grant legislation that "troops of the
United States" should be transported at half rates was held not to include discl'rged soldiers, discharged military prisoners, rejected applicants for enlistment, applicants for enlistment provisionally accepted,
retired enlisted men, or furloughed soldiers en route back to their sta-

UNITED STATES v. POWELL.
238

241/

Opinion of the Court.

of property or troops of the United States. 43 Stat. 477,
486, 10 U. S. C. § 1375; United States v. Union Pacific R.
Co., 249 U. S. 354, 355; Southern Ry. Co. v. UnitedStates,
322 U. S. 72, 73. A change was effected by the Transportation Act of September 18, 1940, 54 Stat. 898, 954, 49 U. S. C.
§ 65, See Krug v. Santa Fe Pac. R. Co., 329 U. S. 591.
All carriers by railroad which released their land-grant
claims against the United States ' were by that Act entitled
to the full commercial rates for all shipments, except that
those rates were inapplicable to the transportation of
"military or naval property of the United States moving for military or naval and not for civil use or to the
transportation of members of the military or naval
forces of the United States (or of property of such
members) when such members are traveling on official
duty ....
"
§ 321 (a).' The Seaboard filed such a re3 Section 321 (b).
4 This provision was eliminated from § 321 (a) by the Act of December 12, 1945, 59 Stat. 606, 49 U. S. C. Supp. V, § 65 (a). Section 2 of
that Act made October 1, 1946, the effective date of the amendmrent
but provided that "any travel or transportation specifically contracted
for prior to such effective date shall be paid for at the rate, fare, or
charge in effect at the time of entering into such contract of carriage or

shipment."
Senator Wheeler, Chairman of the Senate Committee on Interstate

Commerce, who had charge of the bill on the floor, made the following
statement concerning 'pending controversies of the nature involved
in the instant cases:
"Now,- Mr. President, I wish to repeat what I said a moment
ago. It should be made perfectly clear that the passage of this
bill resulting in the repeal of the land-grant rates will have no
effect whatever upon the controversies as to the proper classification of this material, provided it has moved prior to the effective

date of the act. These controversies, which were discussed extensively at the hearings, will have to be settled by the courts; and
action on the present bill, if favorable, will have no effect whatever

upon the question of whether materials that have moved. prior
to the repeal fall within or without the classification of military
or naval property."

91 Cong. Rec. p. 9237.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

lease. Accordingly, the question presented by these cases
is whether the fertilizer was "military or naval property of
the United States moving for military or naval and not for
civil use" within the meaning of p 321 (a) of the Transportation Act.
The legislative history of the Transportation Act of 1940
throws no light on the scope of the except clause.' But
it is apparent from the face of the statute that there are
important limitations on the type of property which must
be carried at less than the applicable commercial rates. In
the first place, it is not the transportation of "all" property
of the United States that is excepted but only the transportation of "military or naval" property of the United
States. In the second place, the excepted property must
be "moving for military or naval and not for civil use."
Thus the scope of the clause is restricted both by the nature
of the property shipped and by the use to which it will be
put at the end of the transportation.
The bulk and main stress of petitioner's axgument are
based on the Lend-Lease Act which was enacted about six
months after the Transportation Act. It is pointed out
that in the case of every shipment under the Lend-Lease
Act there was a finding by the Executive that the shipment
5

See H. Rep. No. 2016, 76th Cong., 3d Sess., p. 87; H. Rep. No.
2832, 76th Cong., 3d'Sess., p. 93. Relief from land-grant deductions
was urged on the basis of the financial plight of the railroads and
the substantial increase in government traffic which occurred in the
1930's. See Report of President's Committee of September 20, 1938,
1 Hearings, House Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce,
76th Cong., 1st Sess., on H. R. 2531, pp. 261, 271-272; Public Aids to
Transportation (1938), Vol. II, pp. 42-45. The section finally enacted
appears to represent a compromise between a House Bill eliminating
land-grant rates entirely (see H. Rep. No. 1217, 76th Cong., 1st Sess.,
p. 27) and a Senate Bill which by its silence left them unchanged.
S. 2009, 76th Cong., 1st Sess.

UNITED STATES v. POWELL.
238

Opinion of the Court.

would promote our national defense,' that the Act was
indeed a defense measure and that unless the administration of that Act is impeached, all lend-lease "defense articles" fall within the except clause and are entitled to
land-grant rates.
Under conditions of modern warfare, foodstuffs lendleased for civilian consumption sustained the war production program and made possible the continued manufacture of munitions, arms, and other war supplies necessary
to maintain the armed forces. - For like reasons, fertilizers
which made possible increased food production served the
same end. In that sense all civilian supplies which maintained the health and vigor of citizens at home or abroad
served military functions.
So for us the result would be clear if the standards of
the Lend-Lease Act were to be read into the Transportation Act. For the circumstance that the fertilizer was
to be used by an ally rather than by this nation would
not be controlling.
6 The authority was vested in the President, who might, when he
deemed it "in the interest of national defense," authorize the Secretary
of War, the Secretary of the Navy, or the head of any other department or agency of the Government to lease, lend, etc., "any defense
article." § 3 (a) (2).
The Act was entitled "An Act to Promote the Defense of. the
United States"; and the interests of national defense were the standards governing its administration, as § 3 (a) (2), supra, note 6, makes
plain. The same purpose is evident from the Committee Reports.
H. Rep. No. 18, 77th Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 2, 11; S. Rep. No. 45, 77th
Cong., 1st Sess., p. 2. And as President Roosevelt stated on September 11, 1941, in transmitting the Second Report under the Act, "We
are not furnishing this aid as an act of charity or sympathy, but as a
means of defending America. . . . The lend-lease program is no mere
side issue to our program of arming for defense. It is an integral
part, a keystone, in our great national effort to preserve our national
security for generations to come, by crushing the disturbers of our
peace." S. Doc. No. 112, 77th Cong., 1st Sess., p. VI.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

Our difficulty, however, arises when we are asked to
transplant those standards into the Transportation Act.
And that difficulty is not surmounted though the exception in § 321 (a) be construed, as it must be, Northern
Pacific R. Co. v. United States, decided this day, post,
p. 248, strictly in favor of the United States.
In the first place, the Transportation Act, which preceded the Lend-Lease Act by only six months, provided
its own standards. They were different at least in terms
from the standards of the Lend-Lease Act; and they were
provided at a time when Congress was much concerned
with the problems of national defense. In September,
1940, when the Transportation Act was passed, Congress and the nation were visibly aware of the possibilities of war. Appropriations for the army and navy
were being increased and the scope of their operations
widened, 8 alien registration was required,9 training of civilians for military service was authorized,"0 development
of stock piles of strategic and critical materials was encouraged "-to mention only a few of the measures being
passed in the interests of national defense. See 50 Yale
L. J. 250. Moreover, the realities of total war were by
then plain to all. Europe had fallen; militarism was
rampant. Yet in spite of our acute awareness of the
nature of total war, in spite of the many measures being
enacted and the many steps being taken by the Congress
and 'the Chief Executive to prepare our national defense,
8See, for example, Act of June 11, 1940, 54 Stat. 265, 292, 297; Act
of June 13, 1940, 54 Stat. 350, 377; Act of June 14, 1940, 54 Stat. 394;
Acts of June 15, 1940, 54 Stat. 396. 54 Stat. 400; Act of June 26, 1940,
54 Stat. 599.
9Act of June 28, 1940, 54 Stat. 670, 8 U. S.C. § 451 et seq.
IlAct of September 16, 1940, 54 Stat. 885, 50 U. S. C. App. § 301
et seq.

"IAct of September 16, 1940, 54 Stat. 897.

UNITED STATES v. POWELL.
238

Opinion of the Court.

contained in § 321 (a) will receive a more harmonious construction if the scope of "military or naval" is less broadly
construed, so as to be more consonant with the restrictive
sense in which it is obviously used in the personnel portion
of the clause.
In sum, we hold that respondents in these cases were
entitled to the full applicable commercial rate for the
transportation of the fertilizer. ID Northern Pacific R.
Co. v. United States, supra, we develop more fully the
breadth of the category of "military or naval property" of
the United States "moving for military or naval . . .
use." It is sufficient here to say that the fertilizer was
being transported for a "civil" use within the meaning of
§ 321 (a), since it was destined for use by civilian agencies
in agricultural projects and not for use by the armed services to satisfy any of their needs or wants or by any civilian
agency which acted as their adjunct or otherwise serviced
them in any of their activities.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

dissents.

tions. United States v. Union Pacific R. Co., supra. The same result
was reached in the case of engineer officers of the War Department
who were assigned to duty in connection with the improvement of
rivers and harbors. Southern Pacific Co. v. United States, 285 U. S.
240.

