OKLAHOMA v. CIVIL SERVICE COMM'N.

127

Syllabus.

OKLAROMA v. UNITED STATES CIVIL SERVICE
COMMISSION.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 84.

Argued October 17, 18, 1946.-Decided February 10, 1947..

.A member of the State Highway Commission of Oklahoma, whose
principal employment was in connection with an activity financed
in part by loans and grants from a federal agency, served at the
same time as Chairman of the Democratic State Central Committee.
During his service on the Highway Commission, there was no
general election in the State; but he advised with the Governor
concerning a dinner sponsored by his Committee to raise funds for
political purposes, called the meeting to order, and introduced the
toastmaster. Pursuant to § 12 of the Hatch Act, 18 U. S. C. § 611,
the United States Civil Service Commission determined that these
activities constituted taking an "active part in political management
or in political campaigns" and that this warranted his removal
from the office of Highway Commissioner. It so notified him and
the State. Pursuant to § 12 (c) of the Hatch Act, the State instituted proceedings in a federal district court to review this determination. Held:
1. In this proceeding, the State may properly challenge the
constitutionality of § 12 of the Hatch Act. Pp. 134-142.
(a) Since § 12 (c) authorizes the reviewing court to decide
whether any order or determination made under_ § 12 (b) is "in
accordance with law," the State can properly challenge, and the
court is authorized to consider and determine, the constitutionality
of the law upon which the order under review is predicated. Masaachusetts v. Mellon, 262 U. S. 447; Perkins v. Lukens Steel'Co.,
310 U. S. 113; Alabama Power Co. v. Ickes, 302 U. S. 464, differentiated. Pp. 135-139.
(b) If the contention that the State has no standing to challenge the constitutionality of the Act be treated as an objection-to
.its capacity to bring the suit, it was waived by failure to object
in the trial court. P. 134.
(c) If it be treated as meaning that no justiciable controversy
exists as to the constitutionality of § 12, it is timely although first
made in this Court. P. 134.

128

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Statement of the Case.

330 U. S.

(d) Under § 12 (c), either the state kmployee or the state
may be the party "aggrieved" and may matintain the action for
judicial review. P. 137.
(e) Since failure to remove the State Highway Commissioner
from office would result under § 12 (b) in interferiice with payment
of the full allotment of federal highway funds \o the State, the
statutory proceeding to review the order finding that his violabion
of the Hatch Act warranted his removal from dffice was a case or
controversy between the State and the Civil Service Commission.
P. 137.
(f) The rule that one may not in the same proc'eding both
rely upon and assail a statute is not applicable to this case. P. 139.
(g) Lack of extended discussion of the scope of judiciol review
during the legislative debates on the Act does not by implication
deny to a litigant the right to hallenge the constitutionality of
the Act. Pp. 140-142.
2. Section 12 of the Hatch Act is not unconstitutional because
of its interference with the employee's freedom of expression in
political matters. United Public Workers v. Mitchell, ante, p. 75.
P. 142.
3. It does not invade the sovereignty of a state in such a way
as to violate the Tenth Amendment. Pp. 142-144.
- (a) While the United States is not concerned with, and has no
power to regulate, political activities as such of state officials, it
does. have power to fix the terms upon which its money allotments
to states shall be disbursed. P. 143.
(b) The Tenth Amendment dbes not forbid the exercise of
this power'in the way that Congress has proceeded in this case.
P. 143.
4. The actions of the Highway Commissioner constituted taking
an "active part in political management" Within the meaning and
purpose of § 12 (a). Pp. 142, 144, 146.
5. The Civil Service Commission's determination that his acts
constitute such a\violation of § 12 (a) as to warrant his removal
from office was in accordance with law and was not arbitrary,
unreasonable or an abuse of discretion. Pp. 144-146.
153 F. 2d 280, affirmed.

The State of Oklahoma instituted proceedings under
.§ 12 (c) of the Hatch Act, 18 U. S. C. § 611 (c), to review
an order of the United States Civil Service Commission
determining that a State Highway Commissiorier had en-

OKLAHOMA v. CIVIL SERVICE COMM'N. 129
127

Opinion of the Court.

gaged in political activities which warranted his removal
from office under that Act. The District Court upheld
the action of the Civil Service Commission. 61 F. Supp.
355. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed. 153 F. 2d
280. This Court granted certiorari. 32E U. S. 831.
Affirmed, p. 146.
Mac Q. Williamson, Attorney General of Oklahoma,

and James W. Bounds, Assistant Attorney General, argued the cause and filed a brief for petitioner.
Ralph F. Fuchs argued the cause for respondent. With
him on the brief were Solicitor General McGrath,Assistant Attorney General Sonnett, Paul A. Sweeney and
Samuel D. Slade.
MR. JUSTICE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.

This proceeding brings to this Court* another phase of
the Hatch Act. The petitioner, the State of Oklahoma,
objects to the enforcement by the United States Civil
Service Commission of § 12 (a) of the Act."
*See United Public Workers v. Mitchell, decided today, ante, p. 75.
153 Stat. 1147, as amended, 54 Stat. 767:
"SEC. 12. (a) No officer or employee of any State or local agency
whose principal employment is in connection with any activity which
is financed in whole or in part by loans or grants made by the United
States or by any Federal agency shall . . . take any active part in
political management or in political campaigns..
"(b> If any Federal agency charged with the duty of making any
loan or grant of funds of the United States for use in any activity
by any officer or employee to whom the provisions of subsection (a)
are applicable has reason to believe that any such officer or employee
has violated the provisions of such subsection; it shall make a report
with respect thereto to the United States Civil Service Commission
(hereinafter referred to as the 'Commission'). Upon the receipt of
any such report, or upon the receipt of any other information which
seems to the Commission to warrant an investigation, the Commission
shall fix a time and place for a hearing, and shall by registered, mail

130

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

France Paris has been a member of the State Highway.
Commission of Oklahoma since January 14, 1943. He
was elected chairman of the Democratic State Central
seild to the officer or employee charged with the violation and to the
Sthte or local agency employing such officer or employee a notice setting forth a summary of the alleged violation and the time and place
of such hearing. At such hearing (which shall be not earlier than ten
days after the mailing of such notice) either the officer or employee
or the State or local agency, or both, may appear with counsel and
be heard. After such hearing, the Commission shall determine
whether any violation of such subsection has occurred and whether
such violation, if any, warrants the removal of the officer or employee
by whom it was committed from his office. or employment, and shall
by registered mail notify such officer or employee and the appropriate
State or local agency of such determination. If in any case the Commission finds that such officer or employee has not been removed from
his office or employment within thirty days after notice of a determination by the Commission that such violation warrants his removal,
or that he has been so removed and has subsequently (within a period
of eighteen months) been appointed to any office or employment in
any State or local agency in such State, the Commission shall make
and certify to the appropriate Federal agency an order requiring it to
withhold from its loans or grants to the State or local agency to which
such notification was given an amount equal to two years' compensation at the rate such officer or employee was receiving at the time of
such violation; except that in any case of such a subsequent appointment to a position in another State or local agency which receives
loans or grants from any Federal agency, such order shall require the withholding of such amount from such other State 'or
local agency: .

...

"(c) Any party aggrieved by any determination or order of the
Commission under subsection (b) may, within thirty days after the
mailing of notice of such determination or order, institute proceedings
for the review thereof by filing a written petition in the district court
of the United States for the district in which such officer or employee
resides; but the commencement of such proceedings shall not operate
as a stay of such determination or order unless k1) it is specifically
so ordered by the court, and (2) such officer or employee is suspended
from his office or employment during the pendency of such proceedings. A copy of such petition shall forthwith be served upon the
Commission, and thereupon the Commission shall certify and file in

OKLAHOMA v. CIVIL SERVICE COMM'N.
127

131

Opinion of the Court.
/

Committee for Oklahoma for his third term in February
1942 and he occupied such position continuously until
October 18, 1943, when he resigned. On October 12,1943,
the Civil Service Commission issued its letter of charges
in the matter of France Paris and the State of Oklahoma,
in which it notified Mr. Paris and Oklahoma that information which the Civil Service Commission had received warthe court a transcript of the record upon which the determination or
'the order complained of was made. The review by the court shall be
on the record entire, including all of the evidence taken on the hearing, and shall extend to questions of fact and questions of law....
The court shall 'affirm the Commission's determination or order, or
its modified determination or order, if the court determines that the
same is in accordance with law. If the court determines that any
such determination or. order, or modified determination or order, is
not in accordance with law, the court shall remand the proceeding
tothe Commission with directions either to make such determination
or order as the court shall determine to be in accordance with law
or to take such further proceedings as, in the opinion of the court,
the law requires. The judgment and decree of the court shall be final,
subject to review by the appropriate circuit court of appeals as in
other cases, and the judgment and decree of such circuit court of appeals shall be final, subject to review by the Supreme Court of the
United States on certiorari or certification as provided in sections 239
and 240 of the Judicial Code, as amended (U. S. C., 1934 edition, title
28, secs. 346 and 347). If any provision of this subsection is held-to
be invalid as applied to any party with respect to any determination
or order of the Commission, such determination or order shall thereupon become final and efftive as to such party in the same manner
as if such provision had not been enacted.
"Sac.. 15. The provisions of this Act which prohibit persons to
whom such provisions apply from taking any active part in political
management or in political campaigns shall be deemed to prohibit the
same activities on the part of such persons as the United States Civil
Service Commission has heretofore determined are at the time this
section takes effect prohibited on the part of employees in the classified civil service of the United States by the provisions of the civilservice niles prohibiting such employees from taking any active part
in political management 6r in political campaigns."

-OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

ranted an investigation into an alleged improper political
activity on the part of France Paris under the provisions
of § 12 of the Hatch Act. The charge was that since January 14, 1943, Mr. Paris had been an officer of Oklahoma
whose principal employment was and is in connection with
an activity financed in whole or in part by loans and grants
from a federal agency of the .United States and that during
such time Mr. Paris also held a political party office, to
wit, the chairmanship of the State Central Committee
above referred to. It later developed that no general election occurred in Oklahoma in 1943. The State Democratic Headquarters had been closed on January 4, 1943,
by Mr. Paris and were later reopened during the year under
the direct charge of the vice-chairman of that committee,
we assume prior to Mr. Paris' resignation on October 18,
1943. On June 14 the committee sponsored a "Victory
Dinner" in Oklahoma City. The trial court found as
follows:
"This dinner was designed to provide the National
Democratic Committee and the State Democratic
Committee with funds to discharge a deficit incurred
by their political activities and to provide funds for
contemplated future activities. It also promoted the
sale of war bonds and did result in the sale of approximately $14,500,000.00 in war bonds. The dinner
netted the Democratic party, which was conceded
to be a political party, approximately $30,000.00.
The dinner was staged under the general supervision
of the Governor of the state and the details were handled by a committee appointed by the Governor.
W. G. Johnston was chairman of this committee.
France Paris was an ex officio member of the committee and he advised with the Governor concerning
the dinner and called the meeting to order and introduced the toastmaster, but he was not active in planning or arranging the dinner."

OKLAHOMA v. CIVIL SERVICE COMM'N.
127

133

Opinion of the Court.

The Civil Service Commission determined that these facts
constituted taking an active part in political management
and in political campaigns. It considered that the violation warranted Mr. Paris' removal from the office of Highway Commissioner of Oklahoma. It ordered that notice
of the aforesaid determinations be given pursuant to § 12
(b) of the Hatch Act. This order foreshadowed, if Mr.
Paris was not removed, a further order by the Commission
under § 12 (b) to the appropriate federal agency that certain highway grants to Oklahoma should be withheld "in
an amount equal to two years compensation" of Mr.
Paris.
. Pursuant to § 12 (c) the State of Oklahoma,
after having received notice of the Civil Service Commission's determination, instituted these proceedings for the review of
the order in the proper district court of the United States.
That court upheld the action of'the Civil Service Commission, 61 F. Supp. 355, and this action was affirmed by
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit. State
of Oklahoma v. United State8 Civil Service Commission,
153 F. 2d 280. Certiorari was sought and allowed because
of the importance of the issues involved in the administration of justice, 328 U. S. 831, under § 12 (c), 53 Stat.
1147, as amended, 54 Stat. 767, and § 240a of the Judicial
Code.
The state contends that the judgments below are invalid
for the following reasons:
"(1) The Hatch Political Activity Act, in so far as
it attempts to regulate the internal affairs of a state,
is an invasion of the sovereignty of the states in violation of the United States Constitution. It further
is invalid as an unlawful delegation of power.
"(2) If valid, the Act applies only to 'active' participation in political management or political campaigns. Such 'active' participation is not shown to
be present in this case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

"(3) If valid, the Act did not warrant the United
States Civil Service Commission in ordering the removal of a state officer or, alternatively, the application of a penalty to the State of Oklahoma.
"(4) The decisions of the lower courts place an
intolerable and unjustified restriction upon the right
of an aggrieved person to a complete judicial review
under the Hatch Political Activity Act."
First. The Government's first contention is that the
petitioner, the State of Oklahoma, has no standing to attack the constitutionality of § 12. It is argued that the
state has no legal caps city to question the manner in which
the United States limits the appropriation of funds
through § 12 (a); that § 12 (b) is merely procedural to
assure that the statutory requirements are observed and
that § 12 (c) is a safeguard against the exercise of arbitrary power by the Commission, not a permission to wage
an attack on the entire arrangement.'
If this contention is treated as an objection to the state's
capacity to bring this suit, as no objection was made until
the memorandum for the respondent on the petition for
certiorari, it would be out of time. A failure to object
in the trial court to a party's capacity is a waiver of that
defect. Parker v. Motor Boat Sales, 314 U. S.244, 251.
On the other hand, if the contention is treted as meaning

that no justiciable controversy as to the constitutionality
of § 12 (a) exists because petitioner suffers no injury which
it may protect legally from the withdrawal by the United
States of a portion of a grant-in-aid, the objection, as it
questions judicial power to act on that point, is timely
although first made in this Court We think that the
2 Massachusetts v. Mellon, 262 U. S. 447, 482; Perkins V. Lukens
Steel Co., 310 U. S. 113; Alabama Power Co. v. Ickes, 302 U. S. 464,
479, are cited as authority, together with other cases.
3 A respondent can support his judgment on any ground
that appears in the record. LeTulle v. Scofield, 308 U. S. 415, 421; Gainesville v. Brown-Crummer Co., 277 U. S. 54, 59.

OKLAHOMA 'v. CIVIL SERVICE COMM'N.
127

135

Opinion of the Court.

latter positioii mae correctly reflects respondent's conjtention. The Commissi6n urges the cases listed in note 2
above as showing that the relation between the state and
federal government arising out of grants-in-aid are political and that the order of the Commission that Paris be
removed was not mandatory. We therefore treat the issue
as properly before us.
The issue is whether Oklahoma can challenge the constitutionality of'§ 12 on statutoryreview of a Commission
order. Subsection (c) gives to any party aggrieved a
judicial review of the Commission order. The review is
on the entire record and extends to questions of fact and
questions of law., The order is to be affirmed if the court
determines that it is"in accordance with law." If the
court determines the order is not in accordance with law,
the proceeding is to be -remanded to the Commission "with
directions either to make such determination or order as
the court shall determine to be in accordance with law or
to take such further proceedings as, in the opinion of the
court, the law requires."' We think the challenge can
be made in these review proceedings to the coustitutionaity of the law upoh which the order under review is,
predicated.
The activities of the Highway Commission of Oklahoma
were financed in part by loans and grants from a federal
agency during all the prtinent times. This was the organization of which Paris was asmember. During the
period in question, January 15, 1943, to October 18, 1943,
while Paris was also Chairman of the Democratic State
Central Committee, the United States through allotment
by federal statute contributed over $2,000,000.for the highway work of the Oklahoma Commission.' Nothing indicates that these sdms were to be received by.Oklahoma
otherwise than in accordance with regular statutory appornote 1, svpra, § 12 (c).
See Vederal Highway Act, 42 Stat. 212, as amended, 23 U. S. C.

4See

5

8 1-117.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

tionment among the states of federal highway funds and
we assume the sums were to be so received by Oklahoma.
Congress may create legally enforceable rights where none
before existed. Payments were not made at the unfettered inclination of a federal disbursing officer or highway
agency but according to statutory standards, compliance
with which entitled Oklahoma to receive her proper share
of the federal appropriations for highway construction
through state agencies. If it were not for § 12, Oklahoma
would have been legally entitled to receive payment from
the federal disbursing office of the sums, includihg the
amount that § 12 (b) authorizes the Civil Service Commission to require the disbursing or allocating federal
agency to withhold from its loans or grants.' Oklahoma
had a legal right to receive federal highway funds by virtue
of certain congressional enactments and under the terms
'therein prescribed. Violation of such a statutory right
normally creates a justiciable cause of action even without
a specific statutory authorization for review." It may be
that before the payment of those funds to Oklahoma Congress could have withdrawn the grant without legal responsibility for such action either in its officers or the National
Government. Perhaps, before disbursement, it could add
of its own free will any additional requirements but when
erected administrative bars,, that is, a condition that a
part of the allotment might be withheld by action of the
Commission, with judicial review of the Com mission's
determination, we think those bars left to Oklahoma the
right to receive all federal highway funds allotted to that
state, subject only to the condition that the limitation on
the right to receive the funds complied with the Constitution. Issues presented by this suit, even though
Cf. Columbia System v. United States, 316 U. S. 407, 422.

'See Deitrick v. Greaney, 309 U. S.. 190, 198, 200-201; Steele v.
Louisville & Nashville Railroad Co., 323 U. S. 192, 202.

OKLAHOMA v. CIVIL SERVICE COMM'N.
127

137

Opinion of the Court.

raised by a state, are closely akin to private wrongs."
Either the state employee or the state may be the party
aggrieved and may maintain the action for judicial review.
The power to examine into the constitutionality of the
conditions was given the federal courts by the grant of
the authority to review the legality of the Civil Service
order. Therefore when by § 12 a right of review of the
Civil Service Commission's order is given to Oklahoma, we
are of the opinion that the constitutionality of the statutory basis, § 12 (a), of the order is open for adjudication.
Congress has power to fix the conditions for review of
administrative orders.' By providing for judicial review
of the orders of the Civil Service Commission, Congress
made Oklahoma's right to receive funds a matter of judicial cognizance. Oklahoma's right became legally enforceable. Interference with the payment of the full allotment
of federal highway funds to Oklahoma made the statutory proceeding to set aside the order a case or controversy between Oklahoma and the Commission, whose
order Oklahoma was authorized to challenge." A reading
of § 12 will show the special interest Oklahoma had in
preventing the exercise of the Civil Service Commission's
power to direct that Oklahoma's funds be withheld.11 . It
was named as the employer affected by § 12 (a). Notices
were sent to it. Funds allotted to Oklahoma were to be
withheld under certain conditions. It was a "party aggrieved." 12 When it brought this suit, under this statu8

Seethe discussion in Colegrove v. Green, 328 U. S. 549'.

0 American Power Co.

v. S. E. C., 325 U. S. 385, 389.
10 Federal Power Commission v. Pacific Power & Light Co., 307
U. S. 156, 159.
"Chicago Junction Case, 264 U. S. 258, 266 (Second); Z. & F.
Assets Realization Corp. v. Hull, 311 U. S. 470, 485.
12
Federal Power Commission v. Pacific Power & Light Co., 307
U. S. 156, 159; Federal Communications Commission v. Sanders
Brothers Radio Station, 309 U. S. 470, 476; American Power Co. v.
S. E. C., 325 U. S. 385, 390; Parker v. Fleming, 329 U. S. 531.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

tory authority, Oklahoma was entitled to a judicial determination as to whether the order of the Civil Service
Commission was "in accordance with law." Was the
order within the competency of the Commission? That
question of competency included' the issue of the constitutionality of the basis for the order, § 12 (a)." Only if
the statutory basis for an order is within constitutional
limits can it be said that the resulting order is legal. To
determine that question, the statutory review must include
the power to determine the constitutionality of § 12 (a).
The cases cited by the Government as pointing toward
lack of power to adjudicate the constitutionality of § 12
IsCf. Labor Board v. Jones & Laughlin, 301 U. S. 1, 25, 43, 49;
Norwegian Nitrogen Products Co. v. United States, 288 U. S. 294,
321-24; United States v. Ruzicka, 329 U. S. 287,294.
Judicial review normally includes issues of the constitutionality of
enactments and action thereunder. 60 Stat. 237, 243, § 10 (e):
"Scope of Review.--So far as necessary to decision and where presented the reviewing court shall decide all relevant questions of law,
interpret constitutional and statutory provisions, and determine the
meaning or applicability of the terms of any agency action. It shall
(A) compel agency action unlawfully withheld or unreasonably
dehlyed; and (B) hold unlawful and set aside agency action, find-*
ings, and conclusions found to be (1) arbitrary, capricious, an abuse
of discretion, or otherwise not in accordance with law; (2) contrary
to constitutional right, power, privilege, or immunity; (3) in excess
of statutory jurisdiction, authority, or limitations, or short of statutoXy right; (4) without observance of procedure required by law;
(5) unsupported by substantial evidence in any case subject to
the requirements of sections 7 and 8 or otherwise reviewed on the
.record of an agency hearing provided by statute; or (6) unwarranted
by the facts to the extent that the facts are subject to trial de novo by
the reviewing court. In making the foregoing determinations the
courE shall review the whole record or such portions thereof as may
* be cited by any party, and due account shall be taken of the rule of
prejudicial error."
See the full discussion of the "Scope of Review," Legislative History, A4ministrative Procedure Act, S. Doc. No. 248, 79th Cong., 2d
Ses., p. 2 13, (e), and p. 278, § 10 (e).

OKLAHOMA v. CIVIL SERVICE COMM'N.
127

139

Opinion of the Court.

are inapposite. None deny to a court with jurisdiction by
statute to review the legality of administrative orders the power to examine the constitutionality of the statute by
virtue of which the order was entered. The authorities
in note 2 above, relied upon by the Government, do not
hold or imply a position contrary to our conclusion. In
Massachusetts v. Mellon, 262 U. S. 447, the Commonwealth and others sought decrees to enjoin the enforcement
of the Federal Maternity Act. This Court denied federal
jurisdiction, p. 480, because no burden was placed upon a
state and no right infringed, p. 482. Perkins v. Lukens
Steel Co., 310 U. S. 113, denied a manufacturer who desired
to sell to the Government the right to question a government official's definition of "locality,'" which the official
was required by statute to make to determine the minimum wages of the "locality" under the Public Contracts
Act. The denial of federal jurisdiction to decide the question was because no "litigable rights" to deal with the
United States had been bestowed by the statute on the
would-be seller, pp. 125 and 127. The prospective seller
by statute or otherwise had nothing to do with the conditions of purchase fixed by the United States. Alabama
Power Co. v. Ickes, 302 U. S.464, denied that the power
company had any enforceable legal right to be free of competition, financed by illegal loans, p. 479. This present
Oklahoma case is differentiated from each of the foregoing
by the authority for statutory review and by the existence
of the legally enforceable right to receive allocated grants
without unlawful deductions.
We do not think the rule that one may not in the same
proceeding both rely upon and assail a statute " is applicable to the present situation. In the cases the Govern"4See Hurley v. Commission of Fisheries, 257 U. S. 223; United
Fuel Gas Co. v. Railroad Commission of Kentucky, 278 U. S. 300;
Great Falls Mfg. Co. v. Attorney General, 124 U. S. 581.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946..
Opinion of the Court,

330 U. S.

ment cites, the litigants had received or sought advantages
from the statute that they wished to attack, advantages
other than the mere right to sue. What we are concerned
with in this case is not an estoppel to sue but the allowable
scope of the statutory jurisdiction.
From this point of view, the respondent urges that the
Congress did not intend to create a justiciable right broad
enough -to include an attack upon the constitutionality of
§ 12 (a). We think the final sentence of § 12 (c), note 1
supra, comes near. to demonstrating the unsoundness of
spch a contention. It reads:
"If any provision of this subsection is held to be invalid as applied to any party with respect to any
determination or order of the Commission, such determination or order shall thereupon become final and
effective as to such party in the same manner as if
such provision had not been enacted."
We do not see that this sentence can mean anything other
tlian that the invalidity (unconstitutionality) of any provision of subsection 12 (b) should not affect the determination of the Civil Service Commission. In view of our
conclusion hereinafter expressed that § 12 (a) is constitutional, whether the Commission's determination would be
enforceable without a particular statutory provision is not
involved in this case.
The Government urges that the absence of legislative
consideration of attacks on the constitutionality of § 12
through the provision for judicial review negatives "the
conclusion that Congress intended Section 12 (c) as an
avenue of attack on Section 12 (a)." 18 But we do not
agree that this lack of extended discussion of the scope
of the judicial review by implication denies to a litigant
the right to attack constitutionality. The final form of
' 8 It cites 86 Cong. Rec. 2354, 2429, 2440, 2468-2474, 9448, 9452;

H. Rep. 2376,76th Cong., 3d Sem., p. 9.

OKLAHOMA v. CIVIL SERVICE COMM'N.
127

141

Opinion of the Court.

judicial review is different from that first proposed. 86
Cong. Rec. 2468. No change of purpose, however, appears. The proposer of judicial review feared arbitrary
action. Id., 2469. Others a violation of political liberty.
It was thought the latter objection might be reached without right of judicial review. No one intimated constitutionality could not' be reached with judicial review.16
1686 Cong. Rec. 2470:
"Mr. LUCAS. I have great respect for the opinions of the Senator
from Nebraska. I rise to ask him a question: Does the Senator from
Nebraska believe that the question of political liberty is involved in
the pending legislation in any way?
"Mr. NoRRIs. I have not thought so.
"Mr. LUCAS. In other words, the Senatoi does not believe that the
political rights of an individual who is charged with violation of the
statute are being invaded?
"Mr. NoRais. Mr. President, I now understand the Senator's question. I do not believe so. Some honest men who are better lawyers
than I am believe those rights are invaded. That question can
easily be tested, however, without having the amendment adopted
and passed upon. If the political rights of an individual were
invaded, then the law would be unconstitutional, and one could get
into court immediately by various kinds of applications. The question could be placed before a court and carried to the Supreme Court
and that Court could pass upon it. The adoption of the particular
amendment in question would not assist in that respect. If the law
is unconstitutional, it will be so found very soon, even without the
adoption of this amendment, and the law will fall.
"Mr. LUcAs. But if the Senator from Nebraska entertains the same
view as that entertained by the Senator from Illinois with respect to
the invasion of the political rights of an individual, then, I take it,
the Senator from Nebraska will agree that in case an individual were
charged with violation of the statute he should have his rights determined by the court of last resort?
"Mr. NoRRIs. I agree with the Senator. But we do not need this
amendment in order to get a decision on the matter. That is my contention. We could not put anything into the law, however ingenious
we might be, which would take away the constitutional rights of any
citizen, and if such an attempt were made the citizen could go into
court and have the question determined, even without the adoption
of language such as contained in the pending amendment."

142

'

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

None of the subsequent changes in the bill are effective to
modify this -construction of the scope of this judicial
review.17

Second. Petitioner's chief reliance for its contention
that § 12 (a) of the Hatch Act is unconstitutional as
applied to Oklahoma in this proceeding is that the socalled penalty provisions invade the sovereignty of a state
in such a way as to violate the Tenth Amendment 18 by
providing for "possible forfeiture of state office or alternative penalties against the state." Oklahoma says § 12 (c)
"provides that the commencement of an appeal from an
order of the Commission: '. . . shall not operate as a stay
of such determination or order unless (1) it is specifically
so ordered by the court, and (2) such officer or employee
is suspended from his office or employment during the
pendency of such proceedings. . . .' " The coercive effect
of the authorization to withhold sums allocated to a state
is relied upon as an interference with the reserved powers
of the state.
Ii -UnitedPublic Workers v. Mitchell, decided this day,
ante, p. 75,:we have considered the constitutionality of
this provision from the viewpoint of interference with: a
federal employee's freedom of expression in political matters and as to whether acting as an official of a political
party violates the provision in § 12 (a) against taking part
in political management or in political campaigns. We
d.o not think that the facts in this case require any further
discussion of that angle. We think that acting as chairman of the Democratic State Central Committee and acting, ex officio, as a member of the "Victory Dinner" committee for the purpose of raising funds for the Democratic
Party and for selling war bonds constitute taking an active
R'ec. 9446,9495.
Is "The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to t1~e States, are reserved to the States
respectively, or to the people."
17 See 86 Cong.

OKLAHOMA v. CIVIL SERVICE COMM'N. 143
127

Opinion of the Court.

part in political management. While the United States,
is not concerned with, and has no power to regulate, local
political activities as such of state officials, it does have
power to fix the terms upon which its money allotments'
to states shall be disbursed.
. The Tenth Amendment does not forbid the exercise
of this power in the way that Congress has proceeded in
this case. As pointed out in United States v. Darby, 312
U. S. 100, 124, the Tenth Amendment has been consistently construed "as not depriving the national government of authority to resort to all means for the exercise.
of a granted power which are appropriate and plainly
adapted to the permitted end." The end sought by Congress through the Hatch Act is better public service by
requiring those who administer funds for national needs
to abstain from active political partisanship. So even
though the action taken by Congress does have effect upon
certain activities within the state, it has never. been
thought that such effect made the federal act invalid."
As nothing in this record shows any attempt to suspehd
Mr. Paris from his duties as a member of the State Highway Commission, we are not called upon to deal with the
assertion of Oklahoma that a state officer may be suspended by a federal court if § 12 is valid. There is an
adequate separalility clause. No penalty was imposed
upon the state. A hearing was had, conformably to 9 12,
and the conclusion was reached that Mr. Paris' active participation in politics justified his removal from membership on the Highway Commission. Oklahoma chose not
to remove him. We do not see any violation of the state's
sovereignty in the hearing or order. Oklahoma adopted
the "simple expedient" of not yielding to what she urges'is
19

Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533, 547; Stearns v. Minnesota, 179

U. S. 223, 244; Floridav.Mellon, 273 U. S. 12; Helvering v. Therrell,
303 U. S. 21S; Wright v. Union Central Ins. Co.,.304 U. S. 502, 516;
Ashwander v. Tennessee Valley Authority, 297 U. S. 288, 338.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

federal coercion. Compare Massachusettsv. Mellon, 262
U. S. 447, 482. The offer of benefits to a state by the
United States dependent upon cooperation by the state
with federal plans, assumedly for the general welfare, is
not unusual.20
In order to give the Civil Service Commission adequate
standards to measure active participation in political activities, Congress adopted § 15 of the Hatch Act, quoted
above in note 1. By this section Congress made the test
of political activity for state employees the same as the
test then in effect for employees in the classified civil service. The Commission had at that time determined that
"service on or for any political committee or similar organization is prohibited."' This could only mean that
service on such a committee was active participation in
politics. Such determination was made a matter of record
by Senator Hatch in charge of the bill during debate on
the scope of .political prohibition.21 Obviously the activities of Mr' Paris were covered by the purpose and language
of § 12. The words of § 12 (a) requiring Mr. Paris' abstention from "any active part in political management
or political campaigns" are derived from -Rule I of the
Civil Service Commission and have persisted there since
1907.22

Oklahoma also argues that the Civil Service Commission determination that the acts of Mr. Paris constitute
such a violation of § 12 (a) as to warrant-his removal from
his state office is not in accordance with law but arbitrary,
unreasonable and an abuse of discretion. The facts of Mr.
2 Steward Machine Co. v. Davis, 301 U. S. 548, 593-98; 'United
States v. Bekins, 304 U. S. 27, 51-54. A review of grants-in-aid will
be found in 8 American Law School Review, Corwin: National-State,
Cooperation, 687, 698.
2186 Cong. Rec. 2938, § 15 of exhibit.
22 See United Public Workers v. Mitchell, ante, pp. 79-81, notes 4,
5 and 6.

OKLAHOMA v. CIVIL SERVICE COMM'N.,
127

145

Opinion of the Court.

Paris' activities and his connection with the Democratic
Sta-te 9ntral Committee during his tenure of office as a
member 9f the Highway Commission of Oklahoma have
bren atted. The Circuit Court of Appeals said, 153 F.
2d at .84, "Manifestly, the Commission had solid footing
in the Act for the conclusion that removal of Paris from
office was warranted." We agree."
Finally, petitioner says that § 12 (c), note 1, supra,
authorizes a review of "every minute detail of the case"
to "determine whether sufficient facts exist to support
the order of the Commission, decide whether the statute
has been reasonably and justly applied, and independently
resolve the entire question as though the federal court
had been the forum in the first instance." The basis for
this argument, in so far as it differs from that referred to
in the preceding paragraph, is drawn from the language
of § 12 (c) that "The review by the court shall be on the
record entire, including all of the evidence taken on the
hearing, and shall extend to questions of fact and questions of law. . . . The court shall affirm the Commission's determination or order, or its modified determination or order, if the court determines that the same is in
accordance with law." As the facts were stipulated and
no objection has been taken to the findings of fact, 61 F.
Supp. 355, 357 (5); 153 F. 2d 280, 283, the attack, on this
issue, is limited to an examination into whether or not the
Commission abused its discretion in the order of removal.
As heretofore stated, the provisions for review underwent
changes during the passage of the Act.2' As finally
23

See Jacob Siegel Co. v. Federal Trade Commission, 327 U. S.

608.
24

See 86 Cong. Rec. 2468-2474; S. 3046 in the House of Representatives, Union Calendar No. 924, June 4, 1940, pp. 4 and 17; H.
Rep. No. 2376, 76th Cong., 3d Sess., p. 9. The amendment which
resulted in the present form of the section appears at 86 Cong.

Rec. 9448.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
.

FRANKFURTER,

330 U. S.

J., concurring.

adopted, however, the reviewing court is directed to remand when it determines that the action of the Commission "is not in accordance with law."

§ 12 (c).

25

The

question of "the removal of an officer or employee," § 12
(b), note 1, supra, we think is a matter of administrative
discretion. Since under Rule I of the Civil Service Commission the taking of "any active part in political management or political campaigns" had been determined by
the Commission to include service on a political committee, see notes 37 and 38 of United Public Workers v.
Mitchell, ante, p. 75, it is clear Mr. Paris' position violated
§ 15 of the Hatch Act. Note 1, supra. It could hardly
be said that the determination of the Commission in
ordering his removal was an abuse of its discretion. See
61 F. Supp. at 357 (6) and (7); 153 F. 2d at 283-84.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took

no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

and MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE dissent.

MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, concurring.

It is of course settled that this Court must consider,
whenever the question is raised or even though not raised
by counsel, the jurisdiction of the lower federal courts as
well as *thejurisdiction of this Court. Mansfield, C. & L.
M. Ry. v. Swan, 111 U. S. 379, 382. But whether a State
has standing to urge a claim of constitutionality under a
25

The following also appears in the section:

"The Commission may modify its findings of fact or its determination or order by reason of the additional evidence so taken and shall
file with the court such modified findings- determination, or order,
and any 'such modified findings of fact, if supported by substantial
evidence, shall be conclusive." 54 Stat. 767, 769.

OKLAHOMA v. CIVIL SERVICE COMM'N.
127

FRANKFURRTR,

147

J., concurring.

Congressional grant-in-aid statute does not involve "jurisdiction" in the sense of a court's power but only the capacity of the State to be a litigant to invoke that power. In
this litigation the Government did not challenge the standing of Oklahoma to question the constitutionality of the
Act until the case came here. I think it is too late to
raise that question at this stage. Assuming that it is
here, it is my view that under the Hatch Act, in the legislative and judicial context in which it must be reap, the
State can question only the correctness of the procedure
and the determination of the Civil Service Commission,.
not the validity of the Act. Section 12 (b), (c), 54 Stat.
767, amending 53 Stat. 1147, 18 U. S. C. § 611 (b)
and (c).
The Administrative Procedure Act does not apply to
the present case. Act of June 11, 1946., 60 Stat. 237,
§ 12. That Act will, in due course, present problems
for.adjudication. We o'ught not to anticipate them when,
being irrelevant, they are not before us. The Act ought
not to be used even for illustrative purpose because illustrations depend on construction of the Act.
Apart from the foregoing, I agree with MR. JUSTICE
REED'S opinion.

