CARDILLO v. LIBERTY MUTUAL CO.

469

Syllabus.

CARDILLO, DEPUTY COMMISSIONER, UNITED
STATES EMPLOYEES' COMPENSATION COMMISSION, v. LIBERTY MUTUAL INSURANCE
CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 265.

Argued January 10, 1947.-Decided March 10, 1947.

A resident of the District of Columbia was employed by a District
of Columbia employer, had previously worked in the District for
six years, and was subject to assignment to work there, but had been
working for over three years at Quantico, Virginia, and commuting
daily between there and his home in the District, where his wife also
resided. An agreement between the employer and the employee's
union bound the employer to furnish "transportation . . . for all
work outside the District of Columbia." A fixed sum per day was
agreed upon as transportation expense to Quantico and was added
to the employee's pay. Transportation actually was provided
daily by cooperation of employees in a car pool, in which the employer acquiesced but over which he exercised no control. The
employee was injured fatally in Virginia while driving his car home
from work. Held:
1. A claim by the widow for compensation for the death of the
employee was within the jurisdiction of the Deputy Commissioner
under the District of Columbia Workmen's Compensation Act.
Pp. 473-477.
2. As here applied, the District of Columbia Act satisfies any
constitutional requirements of due process or full faith and credit.
P. 476.
3. Upon the particular facts of this case, the Deputy Commissioner's finding that the death of the employee "arose out of and
in the course of employment" was supported by evidence and not
inconsistent with the law; it was therefore conclusive and the
compensation award must be sustained. Pp. 477-485.
(a) The Deputy Commissioner's conclusion in this case that
the employer had agreed to furnish transportation to and from
work and had paid the expense of transportation in lieu of actually
supplying the transportation itself, and that the case therefore was
within a recognized exception to the general rule that injuries
received by an employee while travcling between home and work do

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

not "arise out of and in the course of employment," was not erroneous as a matter of law. Pp. 478-480.
(b) In determining whether an injury suffered by an employee
while traveling between home and work is one "arising out of and
in the course of employment," the existence or absence of control
by the employer over the acts and movements of the employee
during the transportation is a factor to be considered but is not
decisive. Pp. 480-481.
81 U. S. App. D. C. 72, 154 F. 2d 529, reversed.

An employer and its insurance carrier brought suit to
set aside an order of the Deputy Commissioner awarding
compensation to a claimant under the District of Columbia Workmen's Compensation Act. The District Court
dismissed the complaint. The Court of Appeals reversdd.
81 U. S. App. D. C. 72, 154 F. 2d 529. This Court granted
certiorari. 329 U. S. 698. Reversed, p. 485.
Philip Elman argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the brief were Acting Solicitor General Washington, Assistant Attorney GeneralSonnett, Paul A. Sweeney
and Joseph B. Goldman.
Arthur J. Phelan argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief were Nelson T. Hartson and
Edward B. Williams.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Petitioner, Deputy Commissioner of the United States
Employees' Compensation Commission, issued an order
under the District of Columbia Workmen's Compensation Act1 awarding compensation to the widow of one
Clarence H. Ticer. It was specifically found that the
injury which led to Ticer's death "arose out of and in
the course of the employment." The propriety and effect
1Act

of May 17, 1928, 45 Stat. 600, D. C. Code, 1940, § 36-501

CARDILLO v. LIBERTY MUTUAL CO.
469

471

Opinion of the Court.

of that finding are the main focal points of our inquiry
in this-case.
Section 1 of the District of Columbia Workmen's Compensation Act provides in part that "the provisions of
the Act entitled 'Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers'
.Compensation Act,' . . . shall apply in respect to the injury or death of an employee of an employer carrying
on any employment in the District of Columbia, irrespective of the place where the injury or death occurs."
The Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation
Act,2 § 2 (2), in turn defines the term "injury" to include
"accidental injury or death arising out of and in the course
of employment, . . ." A finding that the injury or death
was one "arising out of and in the course of employment"
is therefore essential to an award of compensation under
the District of Columbia Workmen's Compensation Act.
In support of his order in this case the Deputy Commissioner made various findings of fact. These may be
summarized as follows:
Ticer and his wife were residents of the District of
Columbia. He had been regularly employed since about
1934 1 as an electrician by E. C. Ernst, Inc., a contractor
engaged in electrical construction work in the District
of Columbia and surrounding areas. In November, 1940,
Ticer was transferred by his employer from a project in
the District of Columbia to a project at the Quantico
Marine Base at Quantico, Virginia. His work at the
Marine Base continued for* over three years until the
time of his injury in December, 1943.
There was in effect at all times an agreement between
the electrical workers' union and the employer. Section
15 (b) of this agreement provided that "Transportation
2

Act of March 4, 1927, c. 509, 44 Stat. 1424, 33 U. S. C. § 901

et seq.
*There was one exception. For a period of about 6 months in 1938
or 1939 he worked for the United States Government.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

and any necessary expense such as board and lodging shall
be furnished [by the employer] for all work outside the
District of Columbia." The sum of $2 a day was fixed
by the parties to this agreement as transportation expense
and represented the approximate cost of travel from the
District of Columbia to the Quantico Marine Base and
return. This sum was paid to Ticer and others in addition to the regular hourly rate of pay. And it was paid
in lieu of the employer's furnishing transportation.
Because the job site at the Marine Base was several
miles away from the Quantico bus or train terminal, it was
necessary for Ticer and his co-workers to drive their own
automobiles to and from work. The employees formed
a car pool. Each morning they started from their respective homes in their own automobiles and drove to a designated meeting place at Roaches Run, Virginia. From
that point they would proceed in one car to the job site at
the Marine Base. This procedure was repeated in reverse
in the evening. The workers alternated in the use of the
cars between Roaches Run and the job site. Non-members of the car pool each paid the car owner $1 for the
round trip.
The employer was aware of the means of transportation
being used and acquiesced therein. On December 13, 1943,
Ticer was driving his car on a direct route from his place
of employment to his home, following the close of the day's
work. Four co-workers were riding with him, two of them
being non-members of the car pool. As the car approached
Fort Belvoir, Virginia, a large stone, which came from
under the rear wheel of a passing truck, crashed through
the windshield of the car. It struck Ticer's head,
crushing his skull. Death resulted four days later.
Ticer's widow presented a claim for compensation. At
the hearing before the Deputy Commissioner, the employer and the insurance carrier contended that the Virginia Compensation Commission had sole jurisdiction over

CARDILLO v. LIBERTY MUTUAL CO.
469

473

Opinion of the Court.

the claim and that Ticer's injury did not arise out of or in
the course of his employment. The Deputy Commissioner ruled against these contentions. After making the
foregoing findings, he entered an order awarding death
benefits and funeral expenses to the claimant.
The employer and the insurance carrier then brought
this action in the District Court to set aside the order of
the Deputy Commissioner. They renewed their jurisdictional objection and alleged a lack of substantial evidence
to support the finding that Ticer's injury arose out of and
in the course of his employment. The District Court dismissed the complaint, holding that the Deputy Commissioner's findings were supported by evidence in the record
and that the compensation order was in all respects in
accordance with law. On appeal, the.Court of Appeals for
the District of Columbia reversed, one justice dissenting.
81 U. S. App. D. C. 72, 154 F. 2d 529. Without passing
upon the jurisdictional issue, the court held that Ticer's
injury had not arisen out of and in the course of his employment. It felt that Ticer had become entirely free
of his employer's control at the close of the day's work
at the Marine Base and that he had thereafter assumed
his own risk in subjecting himself to the hazards of the
highway. We granted certiorari on a petition alleging
a conflict with the decision of this Court in Voehl v.
Indemnity Ins. Co., 288 U. S. 162.
As noted, the Court of Appeals deemed it unnecessary
to dispose of the question whether the Deputy Commissioner had jurisdiction over the instant claim. But in
reviewing an administrative order, it is ordinarily preferable, where the issue is raised and where the record
permits an adjudication, for a federal court first to
satisfy itself that the administrative agency or officer had
jurisdiction over the matter in dispute. At the same
time, however, it is needless to remand this case to the
Court of Appeals for a determination of the jurisdictional

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

issue. That issue was considered and determined by the
Deputy Commissioner, who was in turn sustained by the
District Court. The facts pertinent to that issue are not
seriously disputed and the matter has been fully briefed
and argued before us. A remand under such circumstances is not warranted. We accordingly turn to a consideration of the jurisdictional issue.
We are aided here, of course, by the provision of § 20
of the Longshoremen's Act that, in proceedings under that
Act, jurisdiction is to be "presumed, in the absence of substantial evidence to the contrary"-a provision which
applies with equal force to proceedings under the District
of Columbia Act. And the Deputy Commissioner's findings as to jurisdiction axe entitled to great weight and will
be rejected only where there is apparent error. Davis v.
Department of Labor, 317 U. S. 249, 256-257. His conclusion that jurisdiction exists in this case is supported
both by the statutory provisions and by the evidence in
the record.
The jurisdiction of the Deputy Commissioner to consider the claim in this case rests upon the statement in
the District of Columbia Act that it "shall apply in respect
to the injury or death of an employee of an employer
carrying on any, employment in the District of Columbia,
irrespective of the place where the injury or death occurs;
except that in applying such provisions the term 'employer' shall be held to mean every person carrying on
any employment in the District of Columbia, and the
term 'employee' shall be held to mean every employee
of any such person." There is no question here but that
Ticer was employed by a District of Columbia employer;
the latter had its place of business in the District and
engaged in construction work in the District, as well as
in surrounding areas. But the contention is made that,
despite the broad sweep of the statutory language, the

CARDILLO v. LIBERTY MUTUAL CO.
469

475

Opinion of the Court.

Act applies only where the employee, during the whole
of his employment, spent more time working within the
District than he spent working outside the District.
Using that criterion, it is said that the Act is inapplicable
to this case since Ticer was employed on a construction
-job in Virginia continuously for over three years prior
to the accident and did nothing within the District for
his employer during that period. The implication is
that only the Virginia workmen's compensation law is
applicable.
But the record indicates that both Ticer and his wife
were residents of the District. He had been hired in the
District by his employer in 1934 and had worked on various projects in and around the District from that time
until 1940, when he was assigned to the Quantico Marine
Base project. While at the Marine Base, he was under
orders from the District and was subject to being transferred at anytime to a project in the District. His pay
was either carried to him from the District or was given
to him directly in the District. And he commuted daily
between his home in the District and the Marine Base
project.
We hold that the jurisdictional objection is without
merit in light of these facts. Nothing in the history, the
purpose or the language of the Act warrants any limitation which would preclude its application to this case.
The Act in so many words applies to every employee of
an employer carrying on any employment in the District
of Columbia, "irrespective of the place where the injury
or death occurs." Those words leave no possible room
for reading in an implied exception excluding those employees like Ticer who have substantial business and personal connections in the District and who are injured
outside the District. Whether this language covers employees who are more remotely related to the District

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

is a matter which we need not now discuss and any arguments based upon such hypothetical, situations are without weight in this case.
Nor does any statutory policy suggest itself to justify
the proposed exception. A prime purpose of the Act is
to provide residents of the District of Columbia with a
practical and expeditious remedy for their industrial accidents and to place on District of Columbia employers a
limited and determinate liability. See Bradford Elec. Co.
v. Clapper, 286 U. S. 145, 159. The District is relatively
quite small in area; many employers carrying on business
in the District assign some employees to do work outside
the geographical boundaries, especially in nearby Virginia
and Maryland areas. When such employees reside in the
District and are injured while performing those outside
assignments, they come within the intent and design of
the statute to the same extent as those whose work and
injuries occur solely within the District. In other words,
the District's legitimate interest in providing adequate
workmen's compensation measures for its residents does
not turn on the fortuitous circumstance of the place of
their work or injury. Nor does it vary with the amount
or percentage of work performed within the District.
Rather it depends upon some substantial connection between the District and the particular employee-employer
relationship, a connection which is present in this case.
Such has been the essence of prior holdings of the Court
of Appeals. B. F. Goodrich Co. v. Britton, 78 U. S. App.
D. C. 221, 139 F. 2d 362; Travelers Ins. Co. v. Cardillo,
78 U. S. App. D. C. 392, 141 F. 2d 362; Travelers Ins. Co.
v. Cardillo, 78 U. S. App. D. C. 394, 141 F. 2d 364. And
as so applied, the statute fully satisfies any constitutional
questions of due process or full faith and credit. Alaska
Packers Assn. v. Industrial Accident Commission, 294
U. S. 532. Cf. Bradford Elec. Co. v. Clapper,supra.

CARDILLO v. LIBERTY MUTUAL CO.
469

477

Opinion of the Court.

Hence we conclude that the Deputy Commissioner had
jurisdiction under the District of Columbia Act to entertain a claim by the widow of an employee who had been
a resident of the District, who had been employed by a
District employer and who had been subject to work
assignments in the District. We accordingly turn to a
consideration of the propriety and effect of the Deputy
Commissioner's finding that Ticer's injury arose out of
and in the course of his employment.
Our approach to that problem grows out of the provisions of the Longshoremen's Act, as made applicable by
the District of Columbia Act. Section 19 (a) of the Longshoremen's Act provides for the filing of a "claim for compensation" and specifies that "the deputy commissioner
shall have full power and authority to hear and determine
all questions in respect of such claim." Thus questions as
to whether an injury arose out of and in the course of employment necessarily fall within the scope of the Deputy
Commissioner's authority. Section 21 (b) then provides
that compensation orders may be suspended or set aside
through injunction proceedings instituted in the federal
district courts "if not in accordance with law."
In determining whether a particular injury arose out of
and in the course of employment, the Deputy Commissioner must necessarily draw an inference from what he
has found to be the basic facts. The propriety of that
inference, of course, is vital to the validity of the order
subsequently entered. But the scope of judicial review
of that inference is sharply limited by the foregoing statutory provisions. If supported by evidence and not inconsistent with the law, the Deputy Commissioner's
inference that an injury did or did not arise out of and
in the course of employment is conclusive. No reviewing
court can then set aside that inference because the opposite
one is thought to be more reasonable; nor can the opposite

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

inference be substituted by the court because of a belief
that the one chosen by the Deputy Commissioner is factually questionable. Voehl v. Indemnity Ins. Co., supra,
166; Del Vecchio v. Bowers, 296 U. S. 280, 287; South
Chicago Co. v. Bassett, 309 U. S. 251, 257-258; Parker v.
Motor Boat Sales, 314 U. S. 244,246; Davis v. Department
of Labor, supra, 256; Norton v. Warner Co., 321 U. S. 565,
568-569.
It matters not that the basic facts from which the
Deputy Commissioner draws this inference are undisputed
rather than controverted. See Boehm v. Commissioner,
326 U. S. 287, 293. It is likewise immaterial that the facts
permit the drawing of diverse inferences. The Deputy
Commissioner alone is charged with the duty of initially
selecting the inference which seems most reasonable and
his choice, if otherwise sustainable, may not be disturbed
by a reviewing court. Del Vecchio v. Bowers, supra, 287.
Moreover, the fact that the inference of the type here made
by the Deputy Commissioner involves an application of a
broad statutory term or phrase to a specific set of facts
gives rise to no greater scope of judicial review. Labor
Board v. Hearst Publications,322 U. S. 111, 131; Commissioner v. Scottish American Co., 323 U. S. 119, 124; Unemployment Compensation Commission v. Aragon, 329 U. S.

143, 153-154. Even if such an inference be considered
more legal than factual in nature, the reviewing court's
function is exhausted when it becomes evident that the
Deputy Commissioner's choice has substantial roots in
the evidence and is not forbidden by the law. Such is the
result of the statutory provision permitting the suspension
or setting aside of compensation orders only "if not in
accordance with law."
Our attention must therefore be cast upon the inference
dratwn by the Deputy Commissioner in this case that
Ticer's injury and death did arise out of and in the course

CARDILLO v. LIBERTY MUTUAL CO.
469

479

Opinion of the Court.

of his employment. If there is factual and legal support
for that conclusion, our task is at an end.
A reasonable legal basis for the Deputy Commissioner's
action in this respect is clear. The statutory phrase
"arising out of and in the course of employment," which
appears in most workmen's compensation laws, is deceptively simple and litigiously prolific.' As applied to injuries received by employees while traveling between their
homes and their regular places of work, however, this
phrase has generally been construed to preclude compensation. Voehl v. Indemnity Ins. Co., supra, 169., Such
injuries are said not to arise out of and in the course of
employment; rather they arise out of the ordinary hazards
of the journey, hazards which are faced by all travelers and
which are unrelated to the employer's business. But certain exceptions to this general rule have come to be recognized. These exceptions relate to situations where the
hazards of the journey may fairly be regarded as the hazards of the service. They are thus dependent upon the
nature and circumstances of the particular employment
and necessitate a careful evaluation'of the employment
terms.
'"The few and seemingly simple words 'arising out of and in the
course of the employment' have been the fruitful (or fruitless) source
of a mass of decisions turning upon nice distinctions and supported by
refinements so subtle as to leave the mind of the reader in a maze of
confusion. From their number counsel can, in most cases, cite what
seems to be an authority for resolving in his favour, on whichever side
he may be, the question in dispute."

Lord Wrenbury in Herbert v.'.

Fox & Co. [1916] 1 A. C. 405, 419. See also Dodd, Administration of
Workmens Compensation (1936), pp. 680-687; Horovitz, "Modem

Trends in Workmen's Compensation," 21 Ind. L. J. 473, 497-564;
Horovitz, Injury and Death Under Workmen's Compensation Laws
(1944), pp. 93-173; Brown, "'Arising Out Of And In The Course Of

The Employment' In Workmen's Compensation Laws," 7 Wis. L. Rev.
15, 671 8 Wis. L. Rev. 134, 217.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

Under the District of Columbia Workmen's Compensation Act, at least four exceptions have been recognized
by the Court of Appeals: (1) where the employment requires the employee to travel on the highways; (2) where
the employer contracts to and does furnish transportation
to and from work; (3) where the employee is subject to
emergency calls, as in the case of firemen; (4) where the
employee uses the highway to do something incidental
to his employment, with the knowledge and approval
of the employer. Ward v. Cardillo, 77 U. S. App. D. C.
343, 345, 135 F. 2d 260, 262. See also Lake v. Bridgeport, 102 Conn. 337, 128 A. 782. In performing his function of deciding whether an injury, incurred while traveling, arose out of and in the course of employment, the
Deputy Commissioner must determine the applicability
of these exceptions to the general rule. Here he decided
that the second exception was applicable, that Ticer's
employer had contracted to furnish transportation to and
from work and had paid the expense of transportation
in lieu of actually supplying the transportation itself.
We cannot say that he was wrong as a matter of law.
There are no rigid legal principles to guide the Deputy
Commissioner in determining whether the employer contracted to and did furnish transportation to and from
work. "No exact formula can be laid down which will
automatically solve every case." Cudahy Packing Co.
v. Parramore,263 U. S. 418, 424; Voehl v. Indemnity Ins.
Co., supra, 169. Each employment relationship must be
perused to discover whether the employer, by express
agreement or by a course of dealing, contracted to and
did furnish this type of transportation. For that reason
it was error for the Court of Appeals in this case to emphasize that the employer must have control over the
acts and movements of the employee during the transportation before it can be said that an injury arose out
of and in the course of employment. The presence or

CARDILLO v. LIBERTY MUTUAL CO.
469

481

Opinion of the Court.

absence of control is certainly a factor to be considered.
But it is not decisive. An employer may in fact furnish
transportation for his employees without actually controlling them during the course of the journey or at the time
and place where the injury occurs. Ward v. Cardillo,
supra. And in situations where the journey is in other
respects incidental to the employment, the absence of control by the employer has not been held to preclude a
finding that an injury arose out of and in the course of
employment. See Cudahy Packing Co. v. Parramore,
supra; Voehl v. Indemnity Ins. Co., supra.5
Indeed, to import all the common law concepts of control and to erect them as the sole or prime guide for the
Deputy Commissioner in cases of this nature would be to
encumber his duties with all the technicalities and unrealities which have marked the use of those concepts in
other fields. See Labor Board v. Hearst Publications,
supra, 120-121, 125; Hust v. Moore-McCormack Lines,
328 U. S. 707, 723-725. That we refuse to do. "The
modern development and growth of industry, with the
consequent changes in the relations of employer and
employee, have been so profound in character and degree
as to take away, in large measure, the applicability of
the doctrines upon which rest the common law liability
of the master for personal injuries to a servant, leaving
of necessity a field of debatable ground where a good deal
must be conceded in favor of forms of legislation, calculated to establish new bases of liability more in harmony
with these changed conditions." Cudahy Packing Co. v.
Parramore,supra, 423.
Nor is there any other formal principle of law which
would invalidate the choice made by the Deputy ComSee also Gagnebin v. Industrial Comm'n, 140 Cal. App. 80, 34 P. 2d
1052; Keely v. Metropolitan Edison Co., 157 Pa. Super. 63, 41 A. 2d
420; McKinney v. Dorlac, 48 N. M. 149, 146 P. 2d 867; Exelbert v.
Klein & Kavanagh, 243 App. Div. 839,278 N. Y. S. 377.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

missioner in this instance. The fact that Ticer was not
being paid wages at the time of the accident is clearly
immaterial. Cudahy Packing Co. v. Parramore,supra'
And it is without statutory consequence that the employer
here carried out his contract obligation to furnish actual
transportation by paying the travel costs and allowing the
employees like Ticer to make the journey by whatever
means they saw fit. To be sure, there are many holdings
to the effect that, where the employer merely pays the
costs of transportation, an injury occurring during the
journey does not arise out of and in the course of employment; there must be something more than mere payment
of transportation costs. 7

But assuming those holdings

to be correct and assuming the Deputy Commissioner's
findings in this case to be justified, there is more
here than mere payment of transportation costs. It was
found that Ticer's employer paid the costs as a means
of carrying out its contract obligation to furnish the
transportation itself. Where there is that obligation,
it becomes irrelevant in this setting whether the employer
6"Nor is it ['in the course of employment'] limited to the time
for which wages are paid. Indeed the fact that the workman is paid
wages for the time when the accident occurs is of little, if any, importance." Bohlen, "A Problem in the Drafting of Workmen's Compensation Acts," 25 Harv. L. Rev. 328, 401, 402. Turner Day &
Woolworth Handle Co. v. Pennington, 250 Ky. 433, 63 S. W. 2d
490.
,7Public Service Co. of Northern Illinois v. Industrial Commission,
370 Ill. 334, 18 N. E, 2d 914; Guenesa v. Ralph V. Rulon, Inc., 124
Pa. Super. 569, 189 A. 524; Republic Underwriters v. Terrell, (Tex.
Civil App.) 126 S. W. 2d 752; Orsinie v. Torrance, 96 Conn. 352, 113
A. 924; Kowalek v. New York Consolidated R. Co', 229 N. Y. 489,
128 N. E. 888; Tallon v. Interborough Rapid Transit Co., 232 N. Y.
410, 134 N. E. 327; Keller v. Reis & Donovan, Inc., 195 App. Div. 45,
185 N. Y. S.741; Levchuk v. Krug Cement Products Co., 246 Mich.
589, 225 N. W. 559. See annotations in 20 A. L. R. 319, 49 A. L. R.
454,63 A. L. R. 469,87 A. L. R. 250,100 A. L. R. 1053. Cf. Netherton
v. Coles, [1945] 1 All E. R. 227.

CARDILLO v. LIBERTY MUTUAL CO.
469

483

Opinion of the Court.

performs the obligation by supplying its own vehicle,
hiring the vehicle of an independent contractor, making
arrqngements with a common carrier, reimbursing employees for the use of their own vehicles, or reimbursing
employees for the costs of transportation by any means
they desire to use. In other words, where the employer
has promised to provide transportation to and from work,
the compensability of the injury is in no way dependentupon the method of travel which is employed.' From the
statutory standpoint, the employer is free to carry out its
transportation obligation in any way the parties desire;
and the rights of the employees to compensation are
unaffected by the choice made.
Turning to the factual support for the Deputy Commissioner's inference that Ticer's injury arose out of and
in the course of employment, we find ample sustaining
evidence. Ticer's employment was governed by the terms
of a long-standing agreement between Local Union No. 26,
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (of which
Ticer was a member) and the Institute of Electrical Contractors of the District of Columbia, Inc. (of which the
employer was a member). Rule 15 (b) of the agreement
provided that "Transportation and any necessary expense
such as board and lodging shall be furnished for all work
outside the District of Columbia."
The employer carried out in different ways this obligation to furnish transportation. On certain construction
jobs in the past, it actually furnished a station wagon or a
8 See Donovan's Case, 217 Mass. 76, 104 N. E. 431; Breland v.
Traylor Engineering & Mfg. Co., 52 Cal. App. 2d 415, 126 P. 2d 455;
Lehigh Nay. Coal Co. v. McGonnell, 120 N. J. L. 428, 199 A. 906;
Burchfield v. Department of Labor and Industries, 165 Wash. 106, 4
P. 2d 858; Swanson v. Latham, 92 Conn. 87, 101 A. 492; Cary v. State
Industrial Commission, 147 Okla. 162, 296 P. 385; Williams v. Travelers Ins. Co. of Hartford, Conn., (La. App.) 19 So. 2d 586; Turner
Day & Woolworth Handle Co. v. Pennington, 250 Ky. 433, 63 S. W.'
2d 490.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

330 U. S.

passenger car of its own to transport the employees. At
other times, however, it paid the employees an allowance
to cover the cost of transportation in lieu of furnishing an
automobile. Where the latter course was followed, the
written contract was not amended or changed in any way,
the employer simply communicating with the union to
ascertain the amount necessary to defray the cost of transportation. The amount agreed upon affected all contractors in the Institute; and the cost of transportation was
determined before the contractors made their respective
bids.
On the Quantico Marine Base project, the sum of $2 per
day was agreed upon as the transportation allowance in
lieu of furnishing an automobile. This amount was fixed
after investigation into the cost of transportation by railroad and was paid to each employee, irrespective of his
rate of pay, to cover the cost of transportation to and from
the Marine Base. No change was made in the written
contract.
There was also evidence that the distant location of the
Marine Base project, the hours of work and the inadequacy
of public transportation facilities all combined to make it
essential, as a practical matter, that the employer furnish
transportation in some manner if employees were to be
obtained for the job. This was not a case of employees
traveling in the same city between home and work.
'Extended cross-country transportation was necessary.
And it was transportation of a type that an employer
might fairly be expected to furnish. Such evidence illustrates the setting in which the contract was drawn.
The Court of Appeals felt, however, that the original
contract to furnish transportation was not followed and
that a new oral contract to pay transportation expenses
was substituted in its place. We need not decide whether
that view is justified by the record. It is enough that
there is sufficient evidence to support the Deputy Corn-

PACKARD CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
469

485

Syllabus.

missioner's view that the payment of transportation costs

was merely one way of carrying out the original contract

obligation to furnish the transportation itself.
We therefore hold that, under the particular circumstances of this case, the Deputy Commissioner was justified in concluding that Ticer's injury and death arose out
of and in the course of his employment.

And since the

Deputy Commissioner had jurisdiction over this case, the

resulting award of compensation
sustained.

should have been
Reversed.

MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER concurs in the result.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON and MR. JUSTICE BURTON dissent.

PACKARD MOTOR CAR CO. v. NATIONAL LABOR
RELATIONS BOARD.
CERTIORARI TO- THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 658. Argued January 9, 1947.-Decided March 10, 1947.
1. Foremen and other supervisory employees are entitled as a class
to. the rights of self-organization, collective bargaining, and other
concerted activities assured to employees generally by the National
Labor Relations Act. Pp. 488-490.
(a) They are "employees" within the meaning of § 2 (3). P. 488.
(b) They are not excluded from the term "employees" by § 2 (2)
defining the term "employer." Pp. 488-490.
2. When a union of supervisory employees has been duly certified
by the National Labor Relations Board as a bargaining representative, the Act requires the employer to bargain with it. P. 490.
3. Where, as in this case, a determination of the National Labor
Relations Board under § 9 (b) that a certain union is an appropriate bargaining representative does not exceed the Board's authority, is supported by substantial evidence, and is not so arbitrary
or unreasonable as to be illegal, it cannot be set aside by a court
in an enforcement proceeding under § 10 (e). Pp. 491-492.

