UNION REFRIGERATOR TRANSIT CO. v. LYNCH. 149
Statement of the Case.

of Washington may well be held subject to a similar deprivation
in respect of the allowance of a portion of its claim.
Reversed, and the cause remanded with direction to exclude
the taxes for the years 1883 to 1S88, inclusive, amd to render judginent for the taxes and penalties after the latter
year, with interest on the aggregate suin thereoffrom June
29, 1898, the date of the judgment below.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE concurred on the ground of stare decisis.

UNION REFRIGERATOR TRANSIT COMPANY v.
LYNCII.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF UTAH.
No. 207. Argued March 21, 1900.-Decided April 9, 1900.
Cars of the Union Refrigerator Transit Company, a corporation of Kentucky, engaged in furnishing to shippers refrigerator cars for the transportation of perishable freight, and which were employed in the State of
Utah for that purpose, were subject to taxation by that State.

THE Union Refrigerator Transit Company filed its bill in the
District Court in and for Salt Lake County, State of Utah,
against Stephen H. Lynch, treasurer of Salt Lake County and
collector of taxes therein, alleging: "That it is and was during
all the times hereinafter mentioned a corporation duly organized and existing under and by virtue of the laws of the State
of Kentucky; that its principal office and place of business is
in the city of Louisville, in said State, and was and is engaged
exclusively in the business of furnishing to shippers refrigerator
cars for the transportation of perishable freight over the various lines of railroads throughout the United States and of soliciting shipments for such cars and giving to the said cars needful
attention at various points in transit ; that the said cars are and
were during the said times the sole property of the plaintiff,
and are not and were not during any of the said time allotted,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

leased, rented or furnished under contract to any railroad company or companies or carriers of freight; nor were they run on
any particular line or lines of railroad ; nor were they confined
to any particular route or routes, nor in any particular trains,
nor at any specified or agreed times, but are and were run indiscrinlinately over the lines of railroad over which consignors of
freight shipped in such cars choose to route them in shipping.
"The plaintiff further alleges that the business in which said
cars, including the cars hereinbefore mentioned, are and were
during the said times engaged in was exclusively interstate
commerce business, being confined to interchange and transportation of perishable products of the various parts of the United
States from points in some of said States to points in others of
the said States; that plaintiff has not now and has not had any
office or place of business within the State of Utah, and that
all freight transported in plaintiff's cars in or through the State
of Utah, including the cars hereinafter mentioned, was transported in said cars either from a point or points in a State of
the United States outside of the State of Utah to a point or
points within the State of Utah, or from a point or points within
the State of Utah to a point or points without the State of Utah,
or between points neither of which were within the State of
Utah; and that said cars were within the said State of Utah
at no regular intervals nor in any regular number, and when
in said State of Utah were only within it in transit, except to
load or unload freight shipped from within out of said State or
coming into said State from without the same or in the transportation of freight entirely. through or across said State, and
at such times the said cars were only transiently present for the
said purposes and not otherwise.
"And plaintiff further alleges that said cars do not and did not
abide, nor have they at any time had any sits within the said
State of Utah, nor has this plaintiff, nor has it heretofore at any
time had other property of 'any description whatsoever located
within the State of Utah.
"And plaintiff alleges that its cars so used as hereinbefore
stated, and not otherwise, are not subject to tax within the said
State for any purpose whatsoever.

UNION REFRIGERATOR TRANSIT CO. v. LYNCH. 151
Opinion of the Court.

"That, notwithstanding the aforesaid facts, the state board of
equalization of the State of Utah unlawfully and wrongfully on
the 14th day of August, 1897, assessed and valued, of the property of the plaintiff, ten cars of the aggregate assessment of
$2600, for all purposes of county and state taxation for the
year 1897, and thereafter wrongfully and unlawfully apportioned
the said assessment to the several counties in the said State of
Utah through which lines of railway pass and over which the
said cars might pass or be transported; that among the counties to which said apportionment was made was the county of
Salt Lake, and there was by the said board apportioned to said
county of Salt Lake of the said assessment the sum of $210.00.
"That the taxes levied upon the said property so assessed and
apportioned to Salt Lake County for state, state school, county,
city and city school taxes amounted to the sum of $5.76 ; that
the said tax was and is by reason of the aforesaid facts illegal
and void."
Plaintiff then averred the payment of the tax, under written
protest, claiming the tax to be illegal, in order to avoid the
seizure and sale of its property and to prevent incurring the
penalties provided by law, and prayed judgment for the sum of
$5.76 and interest, and for costs. Defendant filed a general
demurrer to the complaint, which was sustained, and, plaintiff
electing not to amend but to stand on its complaint, judgment
of dismissal with costs was entered. The cause was then taken
to the Supreme Court of Utah and the judgment affirmed.
18 Utah, 378. Thereupon this writ of error was allowed by
the Chief Justice of that court.
ParleyL. Wil31r. Percy W~erner for plaintiff in error. .Mr.
liams was on his brief.
Mr.Joseph L. Rawlins for defendant in error.
S. Varian was on his brief.

-Mr.Charles

R. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The constitution of the State of Utah provided that: "All

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

property in the State, not exempt under the laws of the United
States, or under this constitution, shall be taxed in proportion
to its value, to be ascertained as provided by law;" and that:
"All corporations or persons in this State, or doing business
herein, shall be subject to taxation for state, county, school,
municipal or other purposes, on the real and personal property
owned or used by them within the territorial limits of the authority levying the tax." Constitution, Art. 13, §§ 2, 10.
Some question was raised in the Supreme Court of Utah as
to the proper construction and scope of the state statutes in respect of taxation, but the court held that by those laws all property, owned or used by railway, car, telephone, telegraph and
other companies, within the territorial limits of the State, was
subjected to taxation according to its value regardless of the
domicil of its owner.
The contention on this writ of error is that
the taxation of
the ten cars of plaintiff in error was forbidden by the Constitution of the United States because they had no situs for that purpose in the State of Utah, and the tax imposed a burden on interstate commerce.
In American RefrigeratorTransit Company v. Hall, 174 U. S.
70, quotations were made from the opinions in Pullman's Palace Car Company v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 530; Adams Express Company v. Ohio, 165 U. S. 194, and Adams Express
Company v. Ohio, 166 U. S. 185, and the conclusion of the court
was thus expressed: "It having been settled, as we have seen,
that where a corporation of one State brings into another, to
use and employ, a portion of its movable personal property, it
is legitimate for the latter to impose upon such property, thus
used and employed, its fair share of the burdens of taxation iiposed upon similar property used in like way by its own citizens,
we think that such a tax may be properly assessed and collected,
in cases like the present, where the specific and individual items
of property so used and employed were not continuously the
same, but were constantly changing, according to the exigencies
of the business, and that the tax may be fixed by an appraisement and valuation of the average amount of the property thus
habitually used and employed. Nor would the fact that such

UNION REFRIGERATOR TRANSIT CO. v. LYNCH. 153
Opinion of the Court.

cars were employed as vehicles of transportation in the interchange of interstate commerce render their taxation invalid."
The case before us involves the taxation by the State of Utah
of certain cars belonging to a corporation of Kentucky; the
case cited involved the taxation by the State of Colorado of certain cars belonging to a corporation of Illinois; and if this case
comes within the rule laid down in that case, nothing further
need be said.
In that case the facts were stipulated; and it appeared that
the American Refrigerator Transit Company was a corporation
duly organized and existing by virtue of the laws of the State
of Illinois, with its principal office in the city of East St. Louis
in said State; that it was engaged in the business of furnishing
refrigerator cars for the transportation of perishable products
over the various lines of railroads in the United States; that
these cars were the sole and exclusive property of the plaintiff,
and that the plaintiff furnished the same to be run indiscriminately over any lines of railroad over which shippers on said
railroads might desire to route them in shipping, and furnished
the same for the transportation of perishable freight upon the
direct request of shippers or of railroad companies requesting
the same on behalf of shippers, but on the responsibility of the
carrier and not of the shipper; and plaintiff had not and never
had had any contract of any kind whatsoever by which its
cars were leased or allotted to or by which it agreed to furnish
its cars to any railroad company operating within the State
of Colorado; that ithad and had had during said times no
office or place of business nor other property than its cars within
the State of Colorado, and that all the. freight transported in
plaintiff's cars in or through the State of Colorado, including
the cars assessed, was transported in such cars either from a
point or points of the United States outside of the State of Colorado to a point in the State of Colorado, or from a point in
the State of Colorado to a point outside of said State, or between
points wholly outside of said State of Colorado, and said cars
never were run in said State in fixed numbers nor at regular
times, nor as a regular part of particular trains, nor were any
certain cars ever in the State of Colorado, except as engaged in

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

such business aforesaid, and then only transiently present in
sad State for such purposes.
All these matters were set up, mutatis mutandis, in the complaint in this case in substantially the same language employed
in setting forth the facts in that case. But it was also there
stipulated: "That the average number of cars of the plaintiff
used in the course of the business aforesaid within the State of
Colorado during the year for which such assessment was made
would equal forty, and that the cash value of plaintiff's cars
exceeds the sum of $250 per car, and that if such property of
the plaintiff is assessable and taxable within such State of Colorado, then the amount for which such cars, the property of
the plaintiff, is assessed by said state board of equalization is
just and reasonable, and not in excess Qf the value placed upon
other like property within said State for the purposes of taxation."
The complaint in this case contained no averment as to the
average number of cars of plaintiff in error used in the State of
Utah, but it did show that the company was doing business in
Utah in the year for which the tax in question was levied, and
that it was running its cars into and through the State, using,
employing and caring for them there for profit, in the same
manner as the cars in that case,. and it was not alleged that
the assessment by the state board of equalization was unreasonable, or unjust, or in excess of the valuation of other like property for taxation, or that the method of apportionment was
erroneous. The presumption is that the action of the taxing
officers was correct and regular, and that the number of cars
assessed by the state board of equalization was the average
number used and employed by plaintiff in error in the State of
Utah during 1897.
The objection is not that too many cars were assessed, or that
they were assessed too much, or in an improper manner, even if
we could consider such questions, but simply that they could
not be taxed at all. And this objection was considered and
overruled in the case to which we have referred.
Judgment affirmed.

MURPHY v. MASSACHUSETTS.
Statement of the Case.

MR. JUSTICE WHITE did not hear the argument and took no

part in the consideration and disposition of this case.

MURPHY v. MASSACHUSETTS.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 480. Argued February 28, March 1, 1900. -Decided

April 9, 1900.

Murphy was tried in a state court of Massachusetts on an indictment charging him with embezzlement; was convicted; and was sentenced to imprisonment for a term, one day of which was- to be in solitary confinement, and the rest at hard labor. He remained in confinement for nearly
three years,.and then sued out a writ of error, and the judgment was
reversed on the ground that the sentence was unconstitutional. The case
was then remanded to the court below to have him resentenced, which was
done. Before imposing the new sentence the court said that as he had
already suffered one term of solitary confinement, the court would not
impose another, if a written waiver by the prisoner of the provision
therefor were filed. He declined to file such a waiver, and the sentence
was accordingly imposed. Upon his taking steps to have the sentence
set aside, held that his contention in that respect was unavailing.
PLAINTIFF

in error, a citizen of the Commonwealth of Massa-

chusetts and of the United. States, was tried in the Superior
Court of Massachusetts on an indictment which charged him in
sixty-four counts with the embezzlement of different sums of
money on different days between July 19, 1892, and November 2P, 1893, contrary to the provisions of section forty of chapter 203 of the Public Statutes of Massachusetts; was found
guilty, and on May 29, 1896, was sentenced under chapter 504
of the statutes of 1895 to imprisonment in the state's prison of
the Commonwealth at Boston for the term of not less than ten
nor more than fifteen years, one day thereof to be in solitary
confinement and the residue at hard labor, and on that day, in
execution of said sentence, was committed to that prison. He
remained in solitary con finement for one day and in the prison
continuously from May 29, 1S901, to January 7, 1899.

