OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

KNAPP, STOUT & CO. COMPANY v. McCAFFREY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.

No. 263. Submitted April 24, 1900.-Decided May 14, 1900.
A bill in equity in a state court to foreclose a common law lien upon a raft
for towage services, is not an invasion of the exclusive admiralty jurisdiction of the District Courts, but is a proceeding to enforce a common
law remedy and within the saving clause of section 563 of a remedy which
the common law is competent to give.

THIs was a bill in equity filed in the Circuit Court for the
county of Mercer, Illinois, by the defendant in error, John McCaffrey, against the Knapp, Stout & Co. Company, (hereinafter
called the Knapp Company,) and the Schulenburg & Boeckler
Lumber Company, (hereinafter called the Schulenburg Company,) and its assignees, to enforce a lien for towage upon a
half raft of lumber then lying at Boston Bay, in Mercer County.
The suit arose from a contract made April 6, 1893, by McCaffrey with the Schulenburg Company, in which, after reciting
that McCaffrey bad purchased of this company three steam tow
boats for the sum of $17,500, it was agreed that McCaffrey was
to tow all the rafted lumber such company would furnish him
at or below their mill at Stillwater, Minnesota., to St. Louis,
and deliver the same there to the company in quantities not
exceeding one half a raft at a time, for which service he was to
be paid $1.121 per thousand feet, board measure, for the lumber contained in the raft. The other provisions of the contract,
of which there were many, were not material to the present
controversy. After towing a number of rafts for the company,
the charges for which remained unpaid, one of McCaffrey's
steamers, known as the Robert Dodds, left Stillwater October 13, 1894, with raft No. 10 of that year. The river being
low and navigation difficult, McCaffrey was instructed to divide
the raft, to bring one half to St. Louis, and to lay up the other
half in some safe harbor. In compliance with these instruc-

KNAPP, STOUT & COMPANY v. McCAFFREY.

639

Counsel for Parties.

tions McCaffrey divided the raft on October 20 at Boston Bay
harbor in Mercer County, leaving one half there, while the other
half was towed to St. Louis and delivered to the lumber company on November 2. The company paid the clerk of the boat
$t250 without directions as to its application, and McCaffrey
applied it on the amount due him for the towage of other rafts.
The steamer returned to Boston Bay the morning of November 4, and laid up outside the raft for the winter.
On the next day, November 5, the Schulenburg Company
sold the half raft in Boston Bay to the Knapp Company for
$15,000, part in cash and the remainder in a note due in four
months, which was paid at maturity. A bill of sale was given
for the lumber, and a letter written to the watchman in charge
of the raft informing him of the sale. On November 9 the
Schulenburg Company made a voluntary assignment in St.
Louis for the benefit of creditors. McCaffrey, hearing of the
assignment, offered both companies to tow the half raft to St.
Louis under his contract, but the Knapp Company informed
him that they did not wish him to do so, saying that they did
their own towing; whereupon, McCaffrey, claiming to be still
in possession of the half raft and believing that the company
was about to take it from him by force, filed this bill to foreclose his lien for towage. The Knapp Company gave a bond
for the amount of the claim and took the raft away.
The cage came on for hearing in the Circuit Court upon pleadings and proofs, and resulted in a decree dismissing the bill
without prejudice. McCaffrey appealed to the appellate court,
which reversed the decree of the Circuit Court, and remanded the
cause with directions to enter a decree for the sum of $3643.17,
with interest thereon. The Knapp Company appealed to the
Supreme Court of the State, which affirmed the judgment of
the appellate court, (178 Ill. 107); whereupon defendant sued
out a writ of error from this court.

31r. Charles P. Wise for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Charles E Kremer and Xr. Guy C. Scott for defendant
inerror.

640

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE BROWN, after making the above statement, deliv-

ered the opinion of the court.
Defendants set up in their answers and insisted, both before
the appellate court and the Supreme Court of Illinois, that, if
plaintiff had any lien upon the raft at all for his towage services,
it was a maritime lien, enforceable only in the District Court
of the United States as a court of admiralty. This is the only
Federal question presented in the case.
By article three, section two, of the Constitution, the judicial
power of the general government is declared to extend to "all
cases of maritime and admiralty jurisdiction;" and, by section
nine of the original judiciary act of September 94, 1789, c. 20,
1 Stat. 73, 76, it was enacted "that the District Courts shall
have, exclusively of the courts of the several States,
exclusive original cognizance of all civil causes of admiralty and
saving to suitors, in all cases,
maritime jurisdiction,
the right of a common law remedy, where the common law is
competent to give it." This language is substantially repeated
in subdivision eight of Rev. Stat. ยง 563, wherein it is expressly
stated that "such jurisdiction shall be exclusive, except in the
particular cases where jurisdiction of such causes and seizures is
given to the Circuit Courts."
The scope of the admiralty jurisdiction under these clauses
was considered in a number of cases, arising not long after the
District Courts were established, notably so in that of De lovio
v. Boilt, 2 Gall. 398, wherein Mr. Justice Story brought his great
learning to bear upon an exhaustive examination of all the prior
authorities upon the subject both in England and in America.
But the exclusive character of that jurisdiction was never
called to the attention of this court until 1866, when the States
had begun to enact statutes giving liens upon vessels for causes
of action cognizable in admiralty, and authorizing suits in rem
in the state courts for their enforcement. The valid:ity of these
laws had been expressly adjudicated in a number of cases in
Ohio, Alabama and California. The earliest case arising in this
court was that of The Moses Taylor, 4 Wall. 411, in which was
considered a statute of California creating a lien for the l6reach

KNAPP, STOUT & COMPANY v. McCAFFREY.

641

Opinion of the Court.

of any contract for the transportation of persons or property,
and also providing that actions for such demands might be
brought directly against the vessel. The act further provided
that the complaint should designate the vessel by name; that
the summons should be served upon the master, or person in
charge, the vessel-attached, and, in case of judgment recovered
by the plaintiff, sold by the sheriff. An action having been
brought by a passenger before a justice of the peace of the city
of San Francisco for failure to furnish him with proper and
necessary food, water and berths, the defence was interposed
that the cause of action was one of which the courts of admiralty had exclusive jurisdiction. The ease finally reached this
court, where the defence was sustained, the court holding that
the contract for the transportation of the plaintiff was a maritime contract; that the action against the steamer by name,
authorized by the statute of California, was a proceeding in the
nature and with the incidents of a suit in admiralty. Upon this
point Mr. Justice Field observed: "The distinguishing and
characteristic feature of such suit is that the vessel or thing proceeded against is itself seized and impleaded as the defendant,
and is judged and sentenced accordingly. It is this dominion
of the suit in admiralty over the vessel or thing itself which
gives to the title made under its decrees validity against all the
world. By the common law process, whether of mesne attachment or execution, property is reached only through a personal
defendant, and then only to the extent of his title. Under a
sale, therefore, upon a judgment in a common law proceeding,
the title acquired can never be better than that possessed by'
the personal defendant. It is his title, and not the property
itself, which is sold." The court also held that the statute of
California to the extent to which it authorizbd actions in rem
against vessels for causes of action cognizable in admiralty, invested her courts with admiralty jurisdiction, and to that extent was void.
At the same term arose the case of The Hine v. Trevor, 4
Wall. 555, in which a statute of Iowa giving a lien for injuries
to persons or property, and providing a remedy in rem against
the vessel, was held to be obnoxious to the exclusive jurisdiction.
VOL. CLXXvII-41

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

of the Federal courts. Speaking of the common law remedy,
saved by the statute, Mr. Justice Miller observed: "But the
remedy pursued in the Iowa courts in the case before us, is in
no sense a common law remedy. It is a remedy partaking of
all the essential features of an admiralty proceeding in rem.
The statute provides that the vessel may be sued and made
defendant without proceeding against the owners or even mentioning their names. That a writ may be issued and the vessel
seized, on filing a petition similar in substance to a libel. That
after a notice in the nature of a monition, the vessel may be
condemned and an order made for her sale, if the liability
is established for which she was sued. Such is the general
character of the steamboat laws of the Western States." The
same principle was applied in the case of The Belfa8t, 7 Wall.
624, to a statute of Alabama under which contracts of affreightment were authorized to be enforced in rem in the state courts
by proceedings the same in form as those used in the courts of
admiralty. This was also held to be unconstitutional.
The principle of these cases was restated in The Lottawanna,
21 Wall. 558, 579, although the question settled by that case
was that materialmen furnishing repairs and supplies to a vessel in her home port do not acquire thereby a lien upon the
vessel by the general maritime law. To the same effect is The
J. E. Rumbell, 148 U. S. 1, in which a lien by a state law for
such repairs and supplies was given precedence of a prior mortgage. Finally, in the case of The Glide, 167 U. S. 606, it was
,held that.the enforcement of such a lien upon a vessel,.created
by a statute of Massachusetts, for repairs and supplies in her
home port, for which a remedy in personam may be had in
admiralty, was exclusively within the admiralty jurisdiction of
the courts of the United States, and that the statute of Massachusetts, to the extent that it provided for a proceeding in rem,
and for a sale of the vessel, was unconstitutional and void. See
also XMoran v. Strges, 154 U..S. 256.
The rule to be deduced from these cases, so far as they are
pertinent to the one under consideration, is this: That wherever
any lgen is given by 'a state statute for a cause of action cognizable in admiralty, either in rem or in
Iersonam, proceedings

KNAPP, STOUT & COMPANY v. MoCAFFREY.

643

Opinion of the Court.

in rem to enforce such lien are within the exclusive jurisdiction
of the admiralty courts.
But the converse of this proposition is equally true, that if a
lien upon a vessel be created for a claim over which a court of
admiralty has no jurisdiction in any form, such lien may be enforced in the courts of the State. Thus, as the admiralty jurisdiction does not extend to a contract for building a vessel, or
to work done or materials furnished in its construction, Thie
Jqfferson, (People'sFerry Co. v. Beers,) 20 How. 393; T]he Capitol, (Roach v. hcpman,) 22 How. 129, we held in Edwards v.
Elliott, 21 Wall. 532, that, in respect to such contracts, it was
competent for the States to 6nact such laws as their legislatures
might deem just and expedient, and to provide for their enforcement in remn. The same principle was applied in Johnson v.
Chicago &o. Elevator Co., 119 U. S. 388, to a statute of Illinois
giving a lien upon a vessel for damage done to a building abutting on the water, upon the ground that the court had previously
held that there was no jurisdiction in admiralty for damage
done by a ship to a structure affixed to the land. The Plymnouth,
3 Wall. 20; Ex pate Ph4enix Ins. Co., 118 U. S. 610. There
was really another sound reason for the decision in the fact that
the suit was in personam, with an attachment given upon the
property of the defendant, which, as we shall see hereafter, is
quite a different case from a proceeding 'in rem.
To establish the proposition that the proceeding in this case
was an invasion of the exclusive jurisdiction of the admiralty
courts defendants are bound to show, first, that the contract to
tow a raft is a maritime contract; second, that the proceeding
taken was a suit in rem within the cases above cited, and not
within the exception of a common law remedy, which section 563
was never designed to forestall.
The first of these conditions may be readily admitted. That
a contract to tow another vessel is a maritime contract is too
clear for argument, and there is no distinction in principle between a vessel and a raft. Whether the performance of such a
contract gives rise to a lien 'upon the raft for the towage bill
admits of more doubt; indeed, the authorities, as to how far a
raft is within the jurisdiction of admiralty, are in hopeless con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

fusion, but for the purposes of this case we may admit that such
lien exists. But, if existing, it would not oust or supplant the
common law lien dependent upon possession.
The real question is whether the proceeding taken is
within
the exception "of saving to suitors in all cases the right or a
common law remedy, where the common law is competent to
give it." It was certainly not a common law action, but a suit
in equity. But it will be noticed that the reservation is not of
an action at common law, but of a common law remedy; and a
remedy does not necessarily imply an action. A remedy is
defined by Bouvier as "the means employed to enforce a right,
or redress an injury." While, as stated by him, remedies for
non-fulfillment of contracts are generally by action, they are by
no means universally so. Thus, a landlord has at common law
a remedy by distress for his rent-a right also given to him for
the purpose of exacting compensation for damages resulting
from the trespass of cattle. A bailee of property has a remedy
for work done upon such property, or for expenses incurred in
keeping it, by detention of possession. An innkeeper has a
similar remedy upon the goods of his guests to the amount of
his charges for their entertainment; and a carrier has a like
lien upon the thing carried. There is also a common law remedy
for nuisances by abatement; a right upon the part of a person
assaulted to resist the assailant, even to his death; a right of
recaption of goods stolen or unlawfully taken, and a public right
against disturbers of the peace by compelling them to give sureties for their good behavior. All these remedies are independent of an action,
Some of the cases already cited recognize the distinction between a common law action and a common law remedy. Thus
in T]7e Moses Taylor, I Wall. 411, 431, it is said of the saving
clause of the judiciary act: "It is not a remedy in the common
law courts which is saved, but a common law remedy." To
same effect is Mforan v. Sturges, 154 U. S. 256, 276..
In the case under consideration the remedy chosen by the
plaintiff was the detention of the raft for his towage charges.
That a carrier has a lien for his charges upon the thing carried,
and may retain possession of such thing until such charges are

KNAPP, STOUT & COMPANY v. McCAFFREY.

645

Opinion of the Court.

paid, is too clear for argument. We know of no reason why
this principle is not applicable to property towed as well as to
property carried. While the duties of a tug to its tow are not
the duties of a common carrier, it would seem that his remedy
for his charges is the same, provided that the property towed
be of a nature admitting of the retention of possession by the
owner of the tug. But whatever might be our own opinion
upon the subject, the Supreme Court of Illinois, having held
that under tie laws of that State the plaintiff had a possessory
lien upon this raft, that such lien extended to so much of the
raft. as was retained in his possession, for the entire bill, and
that under the facts of this case plaintiff did have possession of
the half raft until he surrendered it under order of the court
for its release upon bond given, we should defer to the opinion
of that court in these particulars, as they are local questions dependent upon the law of the particular State.
Whether a bill in equity will lie to enforce a possessory lien
may admit of some doubt, and the authorities are by no means
harmonious. That a person having a lien upon chattels has no
right himself to sell such chattels in the discharge of his lien,
is well settled. Doane v. Russell, 3 Gray, 382; Jones v Pearle,
1 Strange, 557; Lickbarrow v. ilfason, 6 East, 21; Briggs v.
Boston and Lowell Railroad,6 Allen, 246; I ndianapolis& St.
Louis Railroad v. Herndon, 81 Ill. 143; Hiunt v. Htaskell, 24
Me. 339; and in the case of the Thames 1ron Works &c. Co. v.
Patent Derrick Co., 1 J. & H. 93, it was held by Vice Chancellor Wood that ship builders, having a lien upon the ship
built by them according to the contract for the purchase money,
could not enforce their lien by sale. But in some jurisdictions,
and notably so in Illinois, it is held that liens for the enforcement of which there is no special statutory provision, are enforceable in equity. Black v. Brennan, 5 Dana, 310; Charter
v. Stevens, 3 Denio, 33; Dupuy v. Gibson, 36 Ill. 197; Cushman v. Ihayes, 4611l. 145; Cairo& Vincennes Railroadv. Fackney, 78 Ill. 116; Barchardv. Kohn, 157 1l. 579. Such being
the practice in Illinois, we recognize it as expressive of the local
law. There were circumstances in this case which appealed
with peculiar force to the discretion of a court of equity. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

defendant disputed M[cCaffrey's lien and right of possession to
the raft, and announced its intention of towing it to St. Louis
itself. It was in a position where it might have been taken
away by a superior force, unless the plaintiff incurred the expense of employing a gang of men to watch it. Under such
circumstances it was not only natural but just that he should
have applied to a court of equity for relief in the enforcement
of his common law remedy.
We have held in several cases that analogous proceedings
were no infringement upon the exclusive admiralty jurisdiction
of the Federal courts. Thus, in Leon v. Galoeran,11 Wall. 185,
three sailors brought suits in a state court against the owner
of a schooner to recover their wages, and had the schooner,
which was subject to a lien or privilege in their favor, according to the laws of Louisiana, similar in some respects to the
principles of the maritime law, sequestered by the sheriff of the
parish. The writ was levied upon the schooner, which was
afterwards released upon a forthcoming b6nd. This was held
to b an ordinary suit in personam with an auxiliary attachment of the property of the defendant, and no infringement
upon the admiralty jurisdiction. Said Mr. Justice Clifford:
"They brought their suits in the state courts against the owner
of the schooner, as they had a right to do, and, having obtained
judgment against the defendant, they might levy their execution upon any property belonging to him, not exempted from
taxes or execution, which was situated in that jurisdiction."
In Steamboat Co. v. Chase, 16 Wall. 522, a steamboat owned
by the company ran over a sail boat containing the plaintiff's
intestate, and killed hirn. His administrator brought suit against
the company in a state court of Rhode Island, under an act
malting common carriers responsible for deaths occasioned by
their negligence, and providing that the damages be recovered
-inan action on the case. Defendant took the position that the
saving clause must be limited to such causes of action as were
known to the common law at the time of the passage of the
judiciary act, and as the common law gave no remedy for negligence resulting in death, an action subsequently given by the
statute was not a common law remedy. The contention was

KNAPP, STOUT & COMPANY v. McCAFFREY.

647

Opinion of the Court.

held to be unsound. So, also, in Schoonmaker v. Gilmore, 102
U. S. 118, it was held that courts of admiralty had no exclusive
jurisdiction of suits inpersonam growing out of collisions.,
In the case already cited of Johnson v. Chicago &c. Elevator

Co., 119 U. S.388, a petition was filed by the elevator company
against the owner of a tugboat for injuries done by the jib boom
of a schooner in tow of the tug to the wall of plaintiff's warehouse. The petition prayed for a writ of attachment against
the defendant, commanding the sheriff to attach the tug, summon the defendant to appear, and for a decree subjecting the
tug to a lien for such damages. The statute under which the
proceedings were instituted gave a lien for all damages arising
from injuries done to persons or property by such water craft.
it was held that the damage having been done upon the land,
there was no jurisdiction in admiralty, and that the suit was
in personam with an attachment as security, the attachment
being based upon a lien given by the state statute. Said the
court: "There b'eing no lien on the tug by the maritime law
for the injury on land inflicted in this case, the State could
create such a lien therefor as it deemed expedient, and could
enact reasonable rules for its enforcement, not amounting to a
regulation of commerce." It would seem that even if the suit
had been in ren against the vessel, it would have been sustained, as the injury was not one for which an action would
have lain in admiralty.
In the case under consideration the suit was clearly one in
personam to enforce a common law remedy. It was no more a
suit inrem than the ordinary foreclosure of a mortgage. The
bill prayed for process against the several defendants; that
they be required to answer the bill; that plaintiff be decreed
to have a first lien upon the raft for the amount due him ; that
the defendants be decreed to pay such amount; that in default
of such payment the raft be sold to satisfy the same; and, that
in case of such sale, the purchaser have an absolute title, free
from all equity of redemption and all claims of the defendants,
and that they be debarred, etc. This is the ordinary prayer of
a foreclosure bill. The decree of the appellate court reversed
that of the Circuit Court, and directed a recovery of a specified

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

amount It resembles a decree in rem only in the fact that
the property covered by the lien was ordered to be sold. Such
sale, however, would pass the property subject to prior liens,
while a sale in rem in admiralty is a complete divestiture of
such liens, and carries a free and unincumbered title to the
property, the holders of such liens being remitted to the funds
in the registry which are substituted for the vessel. The Helena, 4 Rob. Ad. 3.
The true distinction between such proceedings as are and
such as are not invasions of the exclusive admiralty jurisdiction
is this: If the cause of action be one cognizable in admiralty,
and the suit be in rem against the thing itself, though a monition be also issued to the owner, the proceeding is essentially
one in admiralty. If, upon the other hand, the cause of action
be not one of which a court of admiralty has jurisdiction, or
if the suit be in person am against an individua.l defendant,
with an auxiliary attachment against a particular thing, or
against the property of the defendant in general, it is essentially a proceeding according to the course of the common law,
and within the saving clause of the statute (sec. 563) of a common law remedy. The suit in this case being one in equity to
enforce a common la-vir remedy, the state courts were correct
in assuming jurisdiction.
The decree of the Supreme Court of Illinois is, therefore,
Affirmed.

