UNITED STATES v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO. 435
Syllabus.

had actually selected Ashland as its eastern terminus. The
facts and reasoning relied on by the respective parties were, in
the main, the same with those that were relied on in the case in
the Supreme Court of Wisconsin, now under review in this
court.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Wisconsin is
Afflrmed.
MR. JUsTICE MOKENNA did not take part in the decision of

the case.

UNITED STATES v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD
COMPANY.
APPEAL EROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 408. Argued January 26, 29, 1900. -lDecided April 16, 1900.
The important questions of fact and law are substantially the same in this
case and in Doherty v. Northern Pacific Railway Company, ante, 421,
and that case is followed in this in regard to the questions common to
the two cases.
The obvious purpose of this suit was, to have the question of the proper
terminus of the company's road determined; and if that terminus was
found to be at Ashland, then the complainant would not be entitled to
any relief.
Under the act of July 2, 1864, non-completion of the railroad within the
time limited did not operate as a forfeiture.
As the bill, in this case, does not allege that it is brought under authority
of Congress, for the purpose of enforcing a forfeiture, and does not allege
any other legislative act, looking to such an intention, this suit must be
regarded as only intended to have the point of the eastern terminus judicially ascertained.
As the evidence and cqnceded facts failed to show any mistake, fraud or
rror, in fact or in law, in the action of the land department in accepting the location of the eastern terminus made by the company, and in
issuing the patent in question, the bill was properly dismissed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

IN July, 1898, the United States, by the Attorney General,
filed in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Minnesota a bill of complaint against the Northern Pacific
Railroad Company and others. The object of the suit was to
procure the cancellation and annulment of a certain patent
granted to the Northern 'Pacific Railroad Company by the
United States on April 22, 1895, for a tract of land lying and
being more than ten miles east of Duluth, in the State of Minnesota, and which patent was alleged by the bill to have been inadvertently and mistakenly issued. The case was disposed of on bill,
answer and a stipulation of facts. The Circuit Court dismissed
the case for want of equity, and the cause was taken on appeal
to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, where
the decree of the Circuit Court was, on July 10, 1899, affirmed.
An appeal was thereupon allowed to this court.
This cause was heard in this court in connection with that of
Andrew -Dohertyv. The Northern Pac;,ge Railway Company,
ante, 421. That case came here on a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of Wisconsin.- The present one is on
appeal from the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit.

.Mr. C. IF. Russell for the United States.
Mr. James B. -Kerrand Mr. C. W. Bunn, for the Northern
Pacific Railway Company.
Mr. .f. S. Bright for Doherty submitted on his brief.
MR. JUSTICE

SHIRAS

delivered the opinion'of the court.

The important questions of fact and of law were substantially
the same in the two cases, and so were the reasoning and conclusions of the respective courts below. In a judgment just entered by this court, the judgment of the Supreme Court of Wisconsin was affirmed, for reasons given in the opinion, a reference
to which is deemed to be a sufficient disposition of the questions
common to the two cases.

UNITED STATES v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO. 437
Opinion of the Court.

But in the present case there has been raised and argued a
proposition not considered in the Supreme Court of Wisconsin,
and which is entitled to our attention. Briefly stated, it is that,
even if it be conceded that the eastern terminus of the Northern
Pacific Railroad Company was lawfully fixed at Ashland, Wisconsin, yet that the land grant of the company had lapsed before any map of the definite location of the railroad east of
Duluth, Minnesota, bad been filed in the land department; that
the company could not lawfully extend the construction of its
railroad, so as to entitle it to land under its land grant, after the
time limited by act of, Congress for the completion of the railroad had fully expired; and that, consequently, the patent to
the land described in the bill, being land east of Duluth, was
granted mistakenly and improperly.
This contention is based on the language of section 8 of the
incorporating act, which is as follows: "That each and every
grant, right and privilege herein are so made and given to, and
accepted by, said Northern Pacific Railroad Company, upon
and subject to the following conditions, namely: That the said
company shall commence work upon said road within two
years from the approval of this act by the President, and shall
complete not less than fifty miles per year after the second
year, and shall construct, equip, furnish and complete the whole
road by the fourth day of July, Anno Domini eighteen hundred and seventy-six." The time of completion was subsequently extended to July 4, 1880. 14 Stat. 355; 15 Stat. 255.
It is always safe, in approaching a question of this kind, to
have regard to the pleadings in the case. Otherwise there is
danger that the court and counsel may be drawn into discussions outside of the case actually presented.
On inspection, it appears that the case made by the bill is,
that the eastern terminus of the Northern Pacific Railroad became, was and now is at the city of Duluth, State of Minnesota; that the land in question being part and parcel of the
public lands of the United States, is more than ten miles east
of the said eastern terminus, and not, therefore, within the
limits of the grant to said company; that the patent granted
to the said company on April 22, 1895, was issued "through

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

mistake and inadvertence, and under the erroneous impression
and mistaken belief that said tract of land was within the
limits of the said grant to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company;" and the relief prayed for is that said tract of land be
restored to the complainant; that the defendant be required
to reconvey all of said tract of land; and that said patent
issued by the' ministerial officers of the government, so far as
the tract of land described in the bill is concerned, be cancelled
and'annulled; and for such other and further relief as may be
just and equitable.
It is true that, in the narrative part of the bill, the eighth
section of the incorporating act is quoted, and also there is set
forth the several transactions whereby it is alleged Duluth became established as the eastern terminus of the company's
road, but there is no intimation'that it was the purpose of the
bill to have a forfeiture of the company's rights and property
judicially ascertained and declared. Indeed, the obvious purpose of the suit was to have the question of the proper terminus of the company's road determined; and it seems a fair
deduction from the averments and prayers of the bill that, if
that terminus was found to be at Ashland, then the complainant would not be entitled to any relief.
It is argued on behalf of the Government that, even if the bill
did not point to a forfeiture as part of the proof that the land
had been mistakenly patented, yet that as the difendants, in
their answer, had set up, as part of their defence, that the road
had been "duly," and "in all respects," constructed in accordance with the law, thereby entitling -them to the land in dispute,
the issue was thereby widened so as to include the question of
forfeiture. We think the Court of Appeals properly disposed
of this argument when it said: "This is nothing but a suit to
avoid a patent to a single tract of land on the sole ground that
the land department erroneously found the eastern terminus of
'the road to be at Ashland when it was at Duluth. No forfeiture
of any of the rights and privileges of the company on account
of the delay in the construction of its railroad has been prayed,
no issue of forfeiture has been tendered or made by the pleadings, and that question is not here for consideration. It is a

UNITED STATES v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO. 489
Opinion of the Court.

general rule that questions that are not within the issues presented by the pleadings may not be determined by the courts,
much less may so important a question as the forfeiture of the
rights of a corporation to thousands of miles of railroad and
thousands of acres of land under a Congressional grant. Courts
have no jurisdiction to consider or determine the question of the
forfeiture of a railroad grant until it is raised by direct allegations in a suit instituted by lawful authority for the express
purpose of presenting it."
Again, it is contended that when a statutory grant contains
on the face of the law a provision that each and every grant,
right and privilege are upon condition that the road shall be
completed within a certain time, and that time expires without
performance of the condition, all future proceedings of the company, even if acquiesced in and approved by executive officers
of the Government, in disregard of the forfeiture, are unauthorized, ultra vires and forbidden.
In other words, if we understand the position, it is claimed
that under section 8 of the act of July 2, 1864, non-completion
of the railroad within the time limited of itself operates as a
forfeiture; the grant immediately reverts to the Government;
and courts must so hold on the simple statement of the fact of
non-compliance within the limit. We do not understand this
to be a correct statement of the law. In Schulenberg v. iarriman, 21 Wall. 44, this court was called upon to consider the
legal import of such a provision in the act of Congress of June 3,
1856, granting public lands to the State of Wisconsin to aid in
the construction of railroads in said State. After providing that
the lands should be sold, from time to time, as the construction
of the railroad progressed, until the road was completed, it was
enacted that "if said road is not completed within ten years no
further sales shall be made, and the lands unsold shall revert to
the United States."
No part of the road having been built at the expiration of
the period limited in the grant, it was claimed that the lands
reverted to the United States. It was held by the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Minnesota that
such lands did not ipso facto revert to the United States by

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

mere failure to build the road within the period prescribed by
Congress, and that to effect a forfeiture some act on the part
of the government evincing an intention to take advantage of
such failure was essential; and, on error, that ruling was affirmed by this court, and the following statement of the law
was made by Mr. Justice Field in giving the opinion of the
court :
"In what manner the reserved right of the grantor for breach
of the condition must be asserted so as to restore the estate, depends upon the character of the grant. If it be a private grant,
that right must be asserted by entry or its equivalent. If the
grant be a public one, it must be asserted by judicial proceedings authorized by law, the equivalent of an inquest of office
at common law, finding the fact of forfeiture, and adjudging
the restoration of the estate on that ground, or there must be
some legislative assertion of ownership of the property for
breach of condition, such as an act directing the possession
and appropriation of the property, or that it be offered for
sale or settlement. At common law the sovereign could not
make an entry in person, and, therefore, an office found was
necessary to determine the estate; but, as said by this court
in a late case, ( United States v. Repentigny, 5 Wall. 286,) ' the
mode of asserting or of resuming the forfeited grant is subject
to the legislative authority of the Government. It may be after
judicial investigation, or by taking possession directly under the
authority of the government without these preliminary proceedings.'
"In the present case no action has been taken either by legislative or judicial proceedings to enforce a forfeiture of the estate
granted by the act of Congress. The title remains, therefore,
in the State as completely as it existed on the day when the
title by location of the route of the railroad acquired precision
and became attached to the adjoining alternate sections."
In July, 1866, Congress granted unto the California and Oregon Railroad Company a right or way over the public lands.
In a subsequent suit between the railroad company and one
Bybee, a holder of a mining claim, it was claimed that the
railroad company had forfeited and lost its right under the

UNITED STATES v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO. 441
Opinion of the Court.

grant by its failure to complete its road within the time limited in the act; that such failure operated ipso facto as a termination of all right to acquire any further interest in any
lands not then patented. But it was held by this court, in the
words of Mr. Justice Brown: "That in all cases in which the
question has been passed upon by this court, the failure to complete the road within the time limited is treated as a condition
subsequent, not operating ipsofacto as a revocation of the grant,
but as authorizing the Government itself to take advantage of
it, and forfeit the grant by judicial proceedings, or by an act
of Congress, resuming title to the land." Schulenberg v. Harriman,21 Wall. 44; Van Wfrycle v. Knevals, 106 U. S. 360, are then
cited, and likewise St. Louis, &c., Railroad Co. v. McGee, 115

U. S. 743, where it was said by Chief Justice Waite to have been
often decided "that lands granted by Congress to aid in the construction of railroads do not revert after condition broken until
a forfeiture has been asserted by the United States, either through
judicial proceedings instituted under authority of law for that
purpose, or through some legislative action legally equivalent to
judgment of office found at common law." "Legislation to be
sufficient must manifest an intention by Congress to reassert
title and to resume possession. As it is to take the place of a
suit by the United States to enforce a forfeiture, and judgment
therein establishing the right, it should be direct, positive and
free from all doubt or ambiguity."
As the bill in this case does not allege that it is brought under authority of Congress for the purpose of enforcing a forfeiture, and does not allege any other legislative act whatever
looking to such an intention, it is plain, under the authorities
cited, that this suit must be regarded as only intended to have
the point of the eastern terminus judicially ascertained. This
being so, and that terminus having been found to be at Ashland, it follows that the courts below committed no error in
dismissing the bill 6f complaint.
This view of the case renders it unnecessary for us to consider whether the United States could be estopped by the acts
of the executive department, in recognizing the rights of the
railroad company as continuing in full force after the expira-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Syllabus.

tion of the time named in the statute; or to consider whether
the ordinary doctrines of courts of equity, which relieve a contracting party from forfeiture by reason of a failure to complete
the contract within a time fixed, when the work is subsequently
completed and accepted, would apply to a case like the present.
Undoubtedly there would seem to be room for a fair presumption that Congress was aware of the action of the President
and of the functionaries of the land department in the particulars before mentioned, and approved of the same. It is
not, as put by the counsel of the Government in his able brief,
the case of a waiver presumed from mere non-action, but from
non-action in the special circumstances disclosed.
As the evidence and conceded facts failed to show any mistake, fraud or error, in fact or in law, in the action of the land
department in accepting the location of the eastern terminus
made by the company, and in issuing the patent in question,the bill was properly dismissed, and the decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
Mr. Justice McKENNA did not take part in the decision of
the case.

CARTER v. TEXAS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CRIMINAL APPEALS OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 193. Submitted March 16, 1900. -Decided April 16, 1900.
Whenever by any action of a State, whether through its legislature, through
its courts, or through its executive or administrative officers, all persons
of the African race are excluded, solely because of their race or color,
from serving as grand jurors in the criminal prosecution of a person of
the African race, the equal protection of the laws is denied to him, contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States. And when a defendant has had no opportunity to challenge the
grand jury which found the indictment against him, the objection to the

