OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

Stange, 6 Madd. Chy. 159, 165, in which the Vice Chancellor
said: "In attempting to lay down a rule upon this subject, I
should say that a purchaser is not to take a property which he
can only acquire in possession by litigation and judicial decision." In Pyrke v. Waddingham, 10 Hare, 1, 8, it was held
that the court will not compel a purchaser to take a title that
"will expose him to litigation or hazard."
We are of opinion that the plaintiff's title is not such as a
court of equity should compel the defendant to accept. He
should not have been compelled to accept it even if the court
below had been of opinion that the revenue bond scrip tendered
by Alexander were not bills of credit.
Upon the grounds stated, and without expressing any opinion
upon the question whether the revenue bond scrip referred to
were or were not bills of credit within the meaning of the Constitution of the United States, the decree below is
Affirmed.

Ex parte BAEZ.
ORIGINAL.
No.

Submitted March 26, 1900.-Decided April 12, 1900.

It is well settled that this court will not proceed to adjudication where
there is no subject-matter upon which the judgment of the court can
operate: and although the application in this case has not reached that
stage, still as it is obvious that before a return to the writ can be made,
or any other action can be taken, the restraint of which the petitioner
complains would have terminated, the court feels constrained to decline
to grant leave to file the petition for a writ of habeas corpus and certiorari; but, in arriving at this conclusion, it is not to be understood as intimating, in any degree, an opinion on the question of jurisdiction, or
the other questions pressed on its attention.

ON March 26 a motion was made for leave to file the following petition for the writ of habeas corpus and certiorari:
"Your petitioner, Riamon Baez, by Tulio Larrinaga, for him-

EX PARTE BAEZ.
Statement of the Case.

self and in his behalf, respectfully shows that he is a native-born
inhabitant of the island of Puerto Rico, formerly a dependency
of the Kingdom of Spain, but at the time of the occurrences
hereinafter narrated belonging to and forming a part of the
territority of the United States of America.
"Your petitioner was, also formerly a subject of his Imperial
Majesty the King of Spain, but since long prior to the occurrences herein complained of and ever since, to and including
the present time, he has neither owed nor acknowledged allegiance to any other nation or sovereignty than that of the
United States of America.
"Your petitioner represents unto this honorable court that
he is wrongfully, improperly, unjustly and illegally imprisoned
and restrained of his liberty at Humacoa, in and on said island
of Puerto Rico, by one Samuel C. Bothwell, called and styled
as and being the marshal of the United States provisional court
for the department of Puerto Rico.
"By act of Congress approved April 25, 1898, it was declared
that a state of war had existed and then existed between the
United States of America and the Kingdom of Spain, and thereafter, in the course of the prosecution of such war, the military
forces of the United States invaded and conquered the island of
Puerto Rico and have ever since remained in possession and
control thereof.
"December 10, 1898, a treaty of peace was signed at Paris,
France, between the duly accredited representatives of the
United States of America and Her Majesty the Queen Regent
of Spain; and the same having been duly reported to the Senate of the United States, ratification thereof was advised by the
Senate on February 6, 1899, and, having been ratified by the
President of the United States on said date and subsequently
by Her Majesty the Queen Regent of Spain, ratifications thereof
were exchanged at Washington on the 11th day of April, 1899,
and the treaty was proclaimed by the President of the United
States on the same day.
. "By said treaty it was provided, among other things, as follows:
"' ART. II. Spain cedes to the United States the island of Porto

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

Rico and other islands now under Spanish sovereignty in the
West Indies,

.

.

XI. All Spaniards residing in the territories over which
Spain by this treaty cedes or relinquishes her sovereignty shall
be subject in matters civil as well as criminal to the jurisdiction
of the courts of the country wherein they reside, pursuant to
the ordinary laws governing the same; and they shall have the
right to appear before such courts, and to pursue the same course
as citizens of the country to which the courts belong.'
"Prior to the ratification of said treaty of peace and on or
about the 12th day of August, 1898, a protocol or agreement
between the United StatCs and the Kingdom of Spain was signed
at the city of Washington by the representatives of the two
nations, under and by virtue of the terms of which a suspension
of hostilities between said nations was declared by the President
of the United States.
"By article IV of the said protocol it was agreed that Spain
should evacuate Porto Rico and that commissioners should be
appointed by the signatory powers for the purpose of arranging
and carrying out the details of such evacuation.
"Thereafter an evacuation commission was appointed by the
President of the United States, and a similar commission was appointed by the government of Spain, and the commissioners subsequently assembled in the city of San Juan, Porto Rico, and duly
arranged the terms of such evacuation, which were accepted by
the respective governments, and the evacuation and retirement
of the Spanish forces from the island of Puerto Rico occurred
on the 18th day of October, 1898.
"Thereupon, and on said date, Major General John R. Brooke,
commanding the forces of the United States, in compliance
with the orders of the President, assumed the government of
the said island of Porto Rico, and by General Order No. 1, of
said date, established the military I Department of Puerto Rico.'
"Said order, among other things, contained the following:
"' The provincial and municipal laws, in so far as they affect
the settlement of private rights of persons and property and
provide for the punishment of crime, will be enforced unless
they are incompatible with the changed conditions of Porto
"' ART.

EX PARTE BAEZ.
Statement of the Case.

Rico, in which event they may be suspended by the department
commander.'
"Your petitioner further shows that after said 12th day of
August, 1898, hostilities ceased to exist in the island of Porto
Rico between the forces of the United States and of Spain, and
that since the 11th day of April, 1899, war has ceased to exist
between the nations, and also since the last-named date, if not
prior thereto, there has been and is now a condition of peace
existing throughout said island of Porto Rico, and there has
been neither a state of war with any foreign power in the said
island, nor has there been any internal or domestic rebellions,
revolutions or dissensions, nor any failure to recognize the authority and sovereignty of the United States.
"Since the occupation of Porto Rico by the United States
authorities the civil courts of that island have been in session
exercising the same jurisdiction and in substantially the same
form as during the Spanish occupation of the island, and such
courts were exercising their ordinary civil and criminal jurisdiction during all of the times hereinafter mentioned,
"On the 27th day of June, 1899, by General Order No. 88,
of Brigadier General George W. Davis, United States Army,
then commanding the department of Porto Rico, and the supreme military authority in said island, there was established a
'United States Provisional Court for the Department of Porto
Rico.'
"Said General Order 88, among other things, provides as
follows:
"' SEc. II. The judicial power of the provisional court hereby
established shall extend to all cases which would be properly
cognizable by the circuit or district courts of the United States
under the Constitution, and to all common law offences within
the restrictions hereinafter specified.'
"'SEc. IV. The decisions of said courts shall follow the
principles of common law and equity as established by the
courts of the United States, and its procedure, rules and records shall conform as nearly as practicable to those observed
and kept in said Federal courts.

.

.

"' SEc. V. The provisional court shall consist of three judges,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

one of whom shall be known as the law judge, and the other
two as associate judges, one United States district attorney,
one marshal, one clerk, three deputy clerks, one stenographer
and reporter, one interpreter, one bailiff and janitor, and one
messenger. The law judge shall preside and shall determine
and decide all technical questions of law. A majority vote of
the bench shall determine all questions of fact. The jury system may be introduced or dispensed with in any particular case
in the discretion of the court.
"'SEC. VI. The judges of the provisional court shall be
clothed with the powers vested in the judges of the circuit
or district courts of the United States.
"' SEc. VII. The district attorney shall be authorized to present to the court information against all parties for violations
of United States statutes and regulations. He shall also in
like manner present informations for violations of orders issued by the department commander relating to civil matters,
which may be referred to him from these headquarters.
"' SEC. VIII. In order to define more clearly certain branches
of the criminal jurisdiction of the provisional court, it is hereby
provided that it shall include and be exclusive in the following
classes of cases:
"' 1st. All offences punishable under the statutory laws of
the United States, such as those indicated in paragraph I of
this order.
"' 2d. Offences committed by or against
persons, foreigners
or Americans, not residents of this department, but who may
be traveling or temporarily sojourning therein, or against the
property of non-residents.
"'8.d. Offences against the person or property of persons
belonging to the army or navy, or those committed by persons
belonging to the army or navy, not properly triable by military or naval courts; but not including minor police offenses.
"'4th. Offences committed by or against foreigners or by or
against citizens of another State, district or Territory of the
United States, residing in this department.'
"' SEC. XI. If any party litigant shall feel aggrieved by the
judgment or decree of said court, a stay of ninety days shall

EX PARTE BAEZ.
Statement of the Case.

be granted such party before the execution of such judgment
or decree, upon the filing of a bond by him with sureties in an
amount and with such conditions as the court may determine,
for the purpose of allowing such party to make application to
the Supreme Court of the United States for a writ of certiorari
or other suitable process to review such judgment or decree.
But if at the end of said ninety days such process has not
been issued by the Supreme Court execution shall forthwith
issue.,
"' SEc. XVI. The court shall adopt an appropriate seal which
shall be procured by the treasurer of the island. The clerk of
the court shall have the custody of the seal for use in attesting
legal documents in the usual manner.
"'SEC. XVII. In accordance with the provisions of paragraph
V of this order the following appointments are announced to
take effect July 1st, 1899.'"
[Hlere followed the designation of a "law judge;" a "provisional United States Attorney ;"two military officers as "associate judges;" and another as "clerk."]
"' Private Samuel C. Bothwell, troop D, 5th U. S. cavalry, is
detailed on special duty as marshal of the U. S. provisional
court.'
"By General Order 216 of said department, dated December 18, 1899, section XI of General Order 88, hereinbefore set
forth, was amended so as to read as follows:
If any party litigant shall feel aggrieved by the judgment
or decree of said court, a stay of ninety days shall be granted
such party before the execution of such judgment or decree,
upon the filing of a bond by him with sureties in an amount
and with such conditions as the court may determine, for the
purpose of allowing such party to make application to the Supreme Court of the United States for a writ of certiorari or
other suitable process to review such judgment or decree.
"'For good cause, this court may extend the time of filing
such application and record in the office of the clerk of the
supreme or appellate court aforesaid.
"' The stay of execution granted by this court shall be in force
until the final disposition of the case by the supreme or appel-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

late court aforesaid, provided that the party availing himself
of the provisions of this section shall not be guilty of negligence

in prosecuting his application before the said supreme or appellate court.'
"On the 21st day of September, 1899, by General Order 145
of said department, issued by Brigadier General George W.
Davis, United States Army, as aforesaid, provision was made
for the holding of municipal elections in said island of Porto
Rico, and certain rules and regulations governing the right of
the inhabitants to vote at such elections and the manner of exercising such suffrage were therein provided for, among others
the following:
"' SEc. V. An elector to vote at such elections shall possess
the following qualifications:
"'a. le must be a bona fide male resident of the municipality.
"'b. Ile must be over twenty-one years of age.
"'c. He must be a taxpayer of record at the date of his registration, or lie must be able to read and write.
"' d. He must have resided upon the island of Puerto Rico
for two years next preceding the date of his registration, and
for the last six months of said two years within the municipality where the election is held.'
"Thereafter, by General Orders 160 of said department, issued October 12, 1899, General Orders 145 were amended so
as to read in part as follows:
"' SEc. VIII. He must be a taxpayer of record in the.municipality in which he votes at the date of this order, or he must
be able to read and write. Persons who, pay insular or municipal taxes of any kind, in their own right or name, or in the
name of their lawful wife or minor child, or the members of a
firm, corporation or copartnership, paying taxes, and the heirs
of an estate that pay taxes, are deemed taxpayers under the
meaning of this clause. But administrators, guardians, trustees,
agents or other persons who pay taxes for other than theinselves or their lawful family are not taxpayers within its meaning through such payment.'
"' SEC. XVI. Any person who fraudulently votes, or attempts

EX PARTE BAEZ.
Statement of the Case.

or offers to fraudulently vote, or attempts to influence or control others to fraudulently vote, at any public election, shall,
upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine not exceeding one
hundred dollars, or to imprisonment at hard labor not exceeding three months, or to both such fine and imprisonment, in the'
discretion of the court.'
"Thereafter, by special orders of the military authorities commanding the said department, an election was ordered to be
held on the 31st day of October, 1899, in the city of Guayama,
Porto Rico, for the election of the ordinary municipal officers
of said city to fill the offices in the plan of civil government
established by the military authority of the United States.
"Your petitioner represents that, being duly qualified in accordance with law and the general orders aforesaid, he voted at
said election for the candidates of the party to which he belonged,
and thereafter, on or about the 10th day of November, 1899, he
was arrested and taken into custody by one Samuel C. Bothwell,
marshal of said United States provisional court of the Department of Porto Rico, and brought before said provisional court,
and was there charged by the district attorney thereof, in an
information or complaint which was read to him, with having
illegally voted at the said election in the city of Guayama heretofore mentioned.
"Your petitioner pleaded 'Not guilty' to said charge, and
thereafter said United States provisional court proceeded to "ry
him for said alleged offence, although your petitioner objected
to the jurisdiction of said court and denied that he had committed any crime or offence cognizable by said court, and furtber objected on the ground that no presentment or informatibn
had been returned by a grand jury, and further that he was
deprived of a trial by jury in said cause, a jury trial having
been demanded by him and refused by said court.
"After hearing the evidence in said proceeding, said provisional court found your petitioner 'Guilty,' and sentenced him
to imprisonment at hard labor in the jail of Hlumacao, Porto
Rico, for a period of thirty days.
"Thereupon, in accordance with the provisions of section XI
of General Orders 88, as amended and heretofore referred to,
VOL. CLXXVII-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

your petitioner applied for a stay of execution of ninety days,
to permit him to make application to this honorable court for a
writ of certiorari or other suitable process, to review the action,
and to set aside the judgment of said provisional court.
"Such application was granted; and the time allowed under
said section having expired, your petitioner has been taken into
custody by the said Samuel C. Bothwell, marshal as aforesaid,
and is by him now unlawfully restrained of his liberty and compelled to perform infamous tasks.
"The proceedings of said United States provisional court are
set forth at large in the duly certified copy of the transcript of
the record in said court submitted herewith.
"Your petitioner further alleges that he is advised'that said
United States Provisional Court for the Department of Porto
Rico had no jurisdiction or lawful authority under the Constitution and laws of the United States to cause the arrest of your
petitioner or to proceed against him in manner and form aforesaid, and that said pretended process, arrest, order, trial and
judgment, and warrant whereby your petitioner was committed
to the custody of said Samuel C. Bothwell, and whereby, in custody of said Samuel C. Bothwell, he is imprisoned and restrained
of his liberty, as aforesaid, were and are, each and all of them,
in violation of the Constitution of the United States and the
just rights of your petitioner, and are without authority of law
and void.
"Your petitioner further alleges that said United States provisional court had no jurisdiction to try him for the alleged
offence with which he is charged for the reasons following,
among others :"
[The reasons were here set forth at length.]
"Your petitioner further avers that more than thirty other
persons, residents of said island of Porto Rico, were apprehended
and tried by said provisional court upon the same or similar
charges to those preferred against him, and such persons were
likewise found guilty and sentenced to undergo like punishment,
but the sentences of the court in such other cases have been
stayed pending the determination of your petitioner's application hereia,"

EX PARTE BAEZ.
Opinion of the Court.

[Here followed the prayer.]
The petition was signed: "iRamon Baez, by Tuio Larrinaga;"
and was verified as follows:
"DISTRICT

OF COLUMBIA

88.:

"Tulio Larrinaga, being duly sworn, deposes and says:
"That he is an inhabitant of Porto Rico and knows the petitioner, Ramon Baez;
"He has read the foregoing petition by him subscribed and
knows the contents thereof, and-"That the matters and things therein stated are true of his
own knowledge except as to matters therein stated on information or belief, and as to those matters he believes them to be
true.
,"Further, this petition is signed and verified by him for and
on behalf of the said Ramon Baez for the reason that the petitioner is confined in the island of Porto Rico, and to delay this
application by sending the same for the signature and affidavit
of the petitioner himself would greatly retard, if not entirely
defeat, the relief thereby sought to be obtained.
"TULIo

LARRINAGA."

Subscribed and sworn to before a notary public March 24, A. D.
19 90.

Mr. Frederic D. 3fafenney for the motion.
fr. Solicitor General opposing.
MR.CHIEF

JUSTICE

FULLER delivered the opinion of the court.

Application to file this petition was made to the court on
March 26, when, under pressure of the mass of business under
advisement, we were about to take a recess until April 9, of
which recess the bar had been previously advised.
No notice of the application having been given, on suggestion
of counsel for the United States, leave was granted, according
to the usual course, and in view of the conceded importance of
the questions involved, to submit a brief in opposition within a

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

week, and three days were allowed counsel for petitioner to
reply. These briefs were subsequently duly filed.
It appears from the petition and accompanying papers that
the alleged proceedings against petitioner were stayed at his
instance, from December 11 until March 16 to enable him to
apply to this court in the premises, but no such application was
made. And it further appears that petitioner was not restrained
of his liberty until up to March 16, and that such restraint was
to continue for thirty days from that date, which would expire
April 15.
The petition is not signed or verified by Baez, but on his behalf, and the affidavit does. not state that the application is made
by authority or at the request of Baez, or any facts showing
that he was unable to make it, except the averment by ailiant
that "this petition is signed and verified by him for and on behalf of the said Ramon Baez for the reason that the petitioner
is confined in the island of Porto Rico, and to delay this application by sending the same for the signature and affidavit of
the petitioner himself would greatly retard, if not entirely defeat, the relief thereby sought to be obtained." The affidavit
was sworn to on the 24th of March in the District of Columbia.
Assuming, however, that the application is made in abcordance with the wishes of Baez, we should have been better satisfied if the delay in the presentation of the petition had been
accounted for. The fact that on March 24 it was impracticable
to send to Porto Rico to petitioner for him to act, does not explain why the assertion of his alleged rights was delayed so
long, but rather shows that our interposition would be unavail-,
ing, if we took jurisdiction.
Section 756 of the Revised Statutes provides in relation to the
writ of habeas corpus: "Any person to whom such writ is directed shall make due return thereof within three davs thereafter, unless the party be detained beyond the distance of twenty
miles; and if beyond that distance and not beyond the distance
of a hundred miles, within ten days; and if beyond the distance
of a hundred miles, within twenty days." This section was
taken almost literally from the Habeas Corpus Act, chap. 2 of
the 31st Car, II,which was designed to remedy procrastination

EX PARTE BAEZ.
Opinion of the Court.

and trifling with the writ. Prior to that act the mode of compelling a return was by taking out an alias, and then a pluries
writ, and thereafter issuing an attachment. A reasonable time
has always been allowed for making the return, and it is not
to be presumed that one will not be made. Stockdale v. Iansard, 8 Dowling, 474; fiash's Case, 2 Win. B1. 805. And see
United States v. Bollnman et al., 1 Cr. C. C. 373, where the Circuit Court of the District of Columbia refused to issue an attachment until three days had expired after the service of the
writ. Hurd on Hab. Corp. (2d ed.) 236; Church on Hab. Corp.

(2d ed.)ยง 126.
In this case, if the writ of habeas corpus had been issued
April 9, the next court day after the petition for the writ was
presented to this court, the imprisonment of petitioner would
have expired six days after the issue of the writ, and -fourteen
days before the person having him in custody would be required
to make his return, and, before the case could be heard upon
the writ and return the prisoner would no longer be in custody.
The grave questions of public and constitutional law sought
to be brought into judgment by this application would have
become merely moot questions so far as the decision thereof
could affect any right or interest of the petitioner. And this
Would be so even if we issued the writ and attempted to deal
with the prisoner by a preliminary order. Before he could be
communicated with and brought before us he would be freed
from restraint. 1 re Callicott, 8 Blatchford, 89.
As was said in Stocledale's case, we cannot presume that a
return would not be made, and even if made at once, as it
must be made from Porto Rico, it would nevertheless be too
late for any action of ours to be effectual.
True the issue of the writ might be waived by the Government or we could enter a rule and proceed in the absence of
the prisoner and at once, by agreement, Medley, Petitioner,
134 U. S. 160 ; In re Burrus, 136 U. S. 586 ; but the motion
for leave to file has been resisted, .and there has been no intimation of a disposition to speed the proceedings. Under th6se
circumstances we cannot shut our eyes to the fact that before
definitive action could be had, the application would abate.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Syllabus.

It is well settled that this court will not proceed to adjudication where there is no subject-matter on which the judgment of
the court can operate. And although this application has not
as yet reached that stage, still as it is obvious that before a return to the writ can be made, or any other action can be taken,
the restraint of which petitioner complains would have terminated, we are constrained to decline to grant leave to file the
petition.
The situation was the same April 9, and these observations
are applicable as of that date.
In arriving at this conclusion we are not to be understood as
intimating in any degree an opinion on the question of jurisdiction or other questions pressed on our attention.
Leave denied.

WERLEIN v. NEW ORLEANS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 189.

Argued March 16, 1900. - Decided April 16, 1900.

The city of New Orleans commenced an action in March, 1895, in the Civil
District Court for the Parish of Orleans, in Louisiana, to recover from
Werlein a tract of land of which he was in possession, having acquired
title under the following circumstances: In March, 1876, one Klein commenced an action against the city, to recover principal and interest on
certain city bonds, and obtained judgment for the same in 1876. Under
a writ of fieri facias real estate of the citywas seized to satisfythe judgment, and was advertised for sale. 'The city commenced a suit against
Klein to prevent the sale, and obtained an interlocutory injunction.
After hearing this injunction was dissolved, and the complaint was dismissed. The property was then sold under the judicial proceeding to a
purchaser fhrough whom Werlein claims title. 'This suit was brought by
the city to set aside that sale, on the ground that it was null and void,
because the real estate was dedicated to public use long before the alleged sale, and formed part of the public streets of New Orleans; that
it was not susceptible to alienation or private ownership or private ilossession. Judgment was rendered in favor of the city, which was affirmed
by the Supreme Court of the State. Held:

