OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

IN RE GROSSMAYER, PETITIONER.
ORIGINAL.
No. 4. Submitted Febuary 26, 1900. - Decided March 26, 1900.

If the Citcuit Court of the United States, after sufficient service on a defendant, erroneously declines to take jurisdiction of the case or to enter judgment therein, a writ of mandamus lies to compel, it to proceed to a
determination of the case, except where the authority to issue a writ of
mandamus has been taken away by statute.
Under articles 1223 and 1224 of the Revised, Statutes of Texas of 1895, an
action cannot be maintained against a partnership, consisting of citizens
of dther States, by service upon an agent within the State.
THE

statement of the case will be found in the opinion of the

court.
.Mr. Thomas Harvey Clark for GrQssmayer.
Mr. William W. JifaoFarlandopposing.
MR. JusTIcE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a petition for a writ of mandamus to the District
Judge of the United States for the Eastern District of Texas,
holding the Circuit Court of the United States for that district,
to enter judgment by default for the pe.titioner in an action
brought by him in that court.
The proceedings in that action, as appearing by the petition
for mandamus, and by the judge's return to a rule heretotore
issued by this court, were as follows: The petitioner, a citizen
of the State of Texas, and a resident of Galveston in the Eastern
District of Texas, brought an action in that court to recover
damages in the sum of $50,000, against Robert G. Dun, a citizen
of the State of New York, and Robert D. Douglas, a citizen of
the State of New Jersey, alleging that the defendants carried
on business in that district, and throughout the United States, as
an assocition under the name of R. G. Dun and Company,

IN RE GROSSMAYER, PETITIONER.
Opinion of the Court.

and praying for a summons to said R. G. Dun and Company, to
be served upon John Fowler, alleged to be a resident of Galveston and the local agent of said R. G. Dun and Company. A
summons was issued accordingly, and the marshal returned that
he had served it upon Fowler as such local agent. The defendants having filed no plea, answer or demurrer in the action,
the plaintiff moved for a judgment by default. The defendants
then, appearing specially for the purpose, filed a plea to the
jurisdiction of the court, because the defendants were not and
never had been a corporation, but were private individuals,
citizens of the States of New York and New Jersey respectively
and not of the State of Texas; and in support of this plea filed
an affidavit of Fowler to the truth of the facts therein stated.
And the court thereupon entered the following order: "On this
day came the plaintiff, by his attorney, and moved the court
that judgment by default be entered against the defendant
herein for the want of an appearance or answer, as required by
law; and the said motion having been heard and argued before
the court, and the court being sufficiently advised, it is considered and ordered by the court that the said motion be denied."
Two objections are made to the issue of a writ of mandamus:
1st. That, if the decision of the Circuit Court was erroneous,
the remedy was by writ of error, and not by mandamus.
2d. That the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction of the action,
for want of due service upon the defendants.
The objection to the form of remedy cannot be sustained.
A writ of mandamus, indeed, cannot be used to perform the
office of an appeal or writ of error, to review the judicial action
of an inferior court. A final judgment of the Circuit Court of
the United States for the defendant upon a plea to the jurisdiction cannot therefore be reviewed by writ of mandamus. But
if the court, after sufficient service on the defendant, erroneously
declines to take jurisdiction of the case or to enter judgment
therein, a writ of mandamus lies to compel it to proceed to a
determination of the case, except where the authority to issue
a writ of mandamus has been taken away by statute. E parte
Schollenberger, 96 U. S. 369 ; Pennsylvania Co., petitioner, 137
U. S. 451-453; American Construction Co. v. Jacksonville &o.,
VOL. CLXXVi-

4

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

Railway, 148 U. S.372, 379; Hlohorst, _petitioner,150 U. S. 653,
664. In Goldey v. Morning News, 156 U. S. 518, cited for the
respondent, which was brought to this court by writ of error,
the Circuit Court had entered a final judgment in favor of the
defendant, setting aside the summons, and relieving the defendant from appearing-to answer the complaint. But in the case
now before us that court has done no more than to decline to
enter a judgment in favor of the plaintiff. The plaintiff could
not sue out a writ of error before a final judgment had been entered against him; and he could not compel the Circuit Court
to proceed to final judgment, otherwise than by a writ of mandamus.
But the Circuit Court rightly held that it had no jurisdiction
to enter judgment against the defendants, because there had
been no lawful service of the summons upon them. It appears
by the record, and is not now denied by the petitioner, that the
defendants were a partnership. In the absence of local statute,
no valid judgment can be rendered against the members of a
partnership without service upon them. D'Arcy v. Jfetchur,
11 How. 165. The Revised Statutes of Texas of 1895 contain
the following provisions:
"ART. 1223. In any suit against a foreign private or public
corporation, joint stock company or association, or acting corporation or association, citation or other process may be served
on the president, vice-president, secretary or treasurer, or gen-.
eral manager, or upon any local agent within this State, of such
corporation, joint stock company or association or acting corporation or association.
"AIzT. 1224. In suits against partners, the citation may be
served upon one of the firm, and such service shall be sufficient
to authorize a judgment against the firm and against the partner actually served."
It is argued, in behalf of the petitioner, that the defendants
in this case were an "association," within the meaning of article 1223 of these statutes, and therefore service on their local
agent within the State was sufficient. But upon reading that
article in connection with article 1224, which immediately f01lows it, it is manifest that the words in the former section, " o or-

FARMERS' LOAN &c., CO. v. LAKE ST. RD. CO.

51

Statement of the Case.

poration, joint stock company or association, or acting corporation or association," were not intended to include partnerships;
and that the mode of service in actions against partnerships was
regulated by the latter section, which requires service in such
actions to be made upon one of the firm. As no such service
had been made in the case before us, the Circuit Court had no
jurisdiction to entertain the action, or to render judgment against
the defendants.
Writ of mandamus denied.

FARMERS' LOAN AND TRUST COMPANY v. LAKE
STREET ELEVATED RAILROAD CO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 108. Argued January 19, 1900. -Decided

March 26, 1000.

A suit in equity is commenced by filing a bill of complaint; and this general rule prevails also by statute in Illinois.
As between the immediate parties in a proceeding in rem jurisdiction attaches when the bill is filed and the process has issued, and when that
process is duly served, in accordance with the rules of practice of the
court.

The possession of the res in case of conflict of jurisdiction vests the court
which has first acquired jurisdiction with power to hear and determine
all controversies relating thereto, and, for the time being, disables other
courts of coerdinate jurisdiction from exercising a like power.
This rule is not restricted, in its application, to cases where property has
been actually seized under judicial process before a second suit is instituted in another court, but it applies as well where suits are brought
to enforce liens against specific property, to marshal assets, administer
trusts, liquidate insolvent estates, and in suits of a similar nature, and
it is applicable to the present case.

Lake Street Elevated Railroad Company was incorporated under the laws of the State of Illinois in the month of
August, 1892, with a capital stock of five million dollars, which
was increased in the month of April, 1893, to ten millions of dolTI E

