DOHERTY v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. 421
Syllabus.

cepted by the carrier for transportation, or does it impose the
tax merely upon the transaction of shipment, leaving it to be
paid indifferently by either party thereto?
"(2) If the War Revenue Act of June 13, 1898, does impose
such tax exclusively upon the carrier, does it preclude the carrier, who is by such act required to issue to each shipper a bill
of lading, manifest, or other evidence of receipt, from relieving
itself of the expense of affixing and cancelling the stamp required to be attached to such bill of lading, manifest, or other
evidence of receipt?
"In accordance with the provisions of section 6 of the act of
March 3, 1891, establishing Courts of Appeal, etc., the foregoing questions of law are by the Circuit Court of Appeals
hereby certified to the Supreme Court."
The subject to which the certificate relates and the matter
embraced in the questions submitted has been considered, and
was passed on in an opinion this day announced in the case of
the American Express Company v. Fred. A. 3faynard, Attorney General of the State of Jichigan ex rel. George F. foore
et al., No. 220 of the docket of this term.
For the reasons given in. the opinion in the case just referred
to it is unnecessary to answer the first question submitted, and
a negative answer to the second question is required.
And it is so ordered.

DOHERTY .v.NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WISCONSIN.
No. 121. Argued January 26, 29, 1900. - Decided April 16, 1900.
The eastern terminus of the Northern Pacific Railroad, which was constructed under the powers conferred upon that Railroad Company by the
act of July 2, 1864, c. 217, 13 Stat. 365, was at Ashland in Wisconsin,
and that company acquired a right of way over public lands in Wisconsin,
including the land in question in this case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

IN the Superior Court of Douglas County, Wisconsin, in November, 1896, Andrew Doherty filed a petition asking for the
appointment of commissioners to appraise certain real estate
taken by the Northern Pacific Railway Company for a portion
of its line passing through property alleged to belong to the
petitioner.
The petition alleged that Doherty was and had been since
November 8, 1882, the owner in fee simple of the north one
half of the southwest quarter of section 4, township 47, range
11 west, in Douglas County, Wisconsin; that the Northern
Pacific Railroad Company was a corporation duly authorized
by the laws of the United States to construct and maintain a
line of railway from a point on Lake Superior, in the States
of Wisconsin or Minnesota, to some point on Puget Sound, in
the State of Washington ; that some time during the year 1883
the said company had unlawfully laid its railroad track upon
a portion of petitioner's land, and had unlawfully entered upon'
and appropriated the same, without the consent or authority
of petitioner, and had been in possession thereof ever since
until about August 31, 1896; that on or about the last mentioned date all the property, effects, rights and franchises of
the Northern Pacific Railroad Company had been transferred
and sold to and purchased by the Northern Pacific Railway
Company, and said railroad has ever since been operated and
owned by the'said the Northern Pacific Railway Company,
which the petition alleged to be a domestic corporation, duly
authorized by its charter and the laws of the State of Wisconsin to maintain and operate the line of railway before mentioned; that neither the said Northern Pacific Railroad Company, nor its successor, the Northern Pacific Railway Company,
has acquired title to said land, or made any attempt to acquire
title thereto by purchase, eminent domain or otherwise. The
petition further alleged that the value of the land so taken and
the damages occasioned by the taking thereof were less than
five million dollars and more than one hundred thousand dollars. Wherefore an order was prayed that commissioners be
appointed to ascertain and appraise the compensation to be
made, etc.

DOHERTY v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. 423
Statement of the Case.

To this petition the Northern Pacific Railway Company
made answer asserting title by virtue of the grant of right of
way by section 2 of the act of Congress of July 2, 1864, to the
Northern Pacific Railroad Company, and of the purchase of
the interest of the last named company, etc.
The essential facts in the case were settled by a stipulation
in writing, substantially as follows:
"On July 2, 1864, the land in question was public land of
the United States. On November 8, 1882, the petitioner
Doherty made a homestead entry thereof, and thereafter complied with the homestead laws and received a patent from the
United States purporting to convey the lands February 6, 1890.
In December, 1885, the Northern Pacific Railroad Company
took possession of the strip in controversy and constructed a
railroad upon it, and remained in possession, operating the
railroad, until August 31, 1896, when all the property, rights
and franchises of said railroad company were sold to the appel]ant, the Northern Pacific Railway Company, a Wisconsin corporation, which is duly organized to operate said railroad, and
has occupied said strip for railroad purposes. The Northern
Pacific Railroad Company, of which the appellant is the successor in interest, was organized by and obtained its rights
under an act of Congress approved July 2, 1864, 13 Stat. 365,
c. 217, entitled An act granting lands to aid in the construction
of a railroad and telegraph line from Lake Superior to Puget's
Sound on the Pacific coast by the northern route. By the first
section of this act a corporation created thereby was authorized
to lay out and construct a continuous railroad and telegraph
line, beginning at a point on Lake Superior in the State of
Minnesota or Wisconsin; thence westerly upon the most eligible route as shall be determined by said company within the
United States and north of the forty-fifth degree of latitude
to some point on Puget's Sound. By the second and third sections of the same act the right of way through the public land
of the United States was granted to said railroad company, its
successors and assigns, for the construction of the line, and it
was also provided that if its route should be found to be.upon
the same general line as the route of another railroad which

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

owned a previous land grant from the United States, the
amount of said previous land grant should be deducted from
the amount granted by this act, provided that the railroad
owning the previous grant might assign its interest to the
Northern Pacific Railroad Company, or might consolidate,
confederate and associate with said company upon the terms
named in the first section of the act. The lands granted to
the Northern Pacific Railroad Company by the act amounted
to ten alternate sections per mile on each side of the line
within the States and twenty alternate sections in the Territories, with a ten-mile indemnity limit, and by resolution of
Congress, May 31, 1870, an additional indemnity belt ten
miles in width was created on each side of the line. This
act was accepted by the company within the time required
by law. The act also required the company to procure legislative consent of the States through which it was to run before
its construction, and in the year 1865 the legislatures of Minnesota and Wisconsin gave such consent, the Minnesota act
providing that if the eastern terminus of the road should be
located east of the eastern boundary of Minnesota, then that
the company should construct or cause to be constructed a
railroad from its main line to the navigable waters of Lake
Superior at some point within the State of Minnesota.
"In 1870 the company located its general route from the
mouth of the Montreal River in Wisconsin, across Wisconsin
and Minnesota to a point on the Red River of the North near
Fargo, and transmitted a map showing this location August 13,
1870, to the Secretary of the Interior. This map showed the
proposed general route to commence at the mouth of the Montreal River, thence a little south of west upon a direct line to
a point directly south of and about 9ix miles distant from the
south end of Chequamegen Bay, thence a little north of west
upon a direct line crossing the state boundary between Wisconsin and Minnesota, at or near the point where the St. Louis
River becomes such boundary. Upon receipt of this map the
Secretary of the Interior transmitted it to the Land Commissioner, with instructions to withdraw from sale, homestead and
preemption all odd-numbered sections of land within twenty

DOHERTY v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. 425
Statement of the Case.

miles of the line within both States. This order was complied
,yith by the Land Commissioner by directions given to the district land officers at Bayfield, Wisconsin. Such withdrawals
were made and the price of the even-numbered sections was
raised to $2.50 per acre, and thereafter large quantities of such
land were sold by the Government at the rate of $2.50 per acre.
In 1882 a map of definite location of said railroad from a point
upon the St. Paul and Duluth Railroad, now called Thomson
Junction, eastward to a point in section 15, township 47, north
of range 2 west, in the State of Wisconsin, was prepared and
approved by the directors and certified and forwarded to the
Secretary of the Interior. The line of definite location laid
down on this map followed substantially the line of general
location upon the prior map, but it turned to the north and
touched Superior, and also Ashland, and stopped some ten
miles west of the mouth of the Montreal River. Upon receipt
of "thismap of definite location the Land Commissioner, by direction of the Secretary of the Interior, adjusted the land grant
in accordance with it, and prepared diagrams showing the limits of the grant and indemnity belts, and transmitted such diagrams to the district land officers with the proper directions as
to the withdrawal of lands, which were complied with.
"August 2, 1884, the directors of the Northern Pacific Railroad Company adopted a resolution fixing the eastern terminus
of the railroad at the city of Ashland, which resolution was
duly certified and transmitted to the Commissioner of the General Land Office, December 3, 1884. Thereafter the Commissioner prepared a diagram showing the final eastern terminus
of the line at Ashland, and sent the same to the district officers
at Bayfield, with instructions to adjust the grant on this basis.
The point so fixed is on the line of definite location of July 6,
1882, but about twelve miles west of the east end of that line.
The Northern Pacific Railroad Company constructed a continuous line of railroad from the city of Ashland to Puget's
Sound, in all respects in accordance with its act of incorporation, and the whole line has been duly accepted by the President of the United States, as provided in that act. That portion of the road extending east from Thomson Junction was

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

constructed upon the line of definite location shown in the map
of 1882, and was so constructed during the years 1881, 1882,
1883 and 1884.
"The first section extended from Thomson Junction to Superior, and was examined and reported favorably upon by coinmissioners in 1882, and the recommendations were approved by
the President, September 16, 1882; the second section, extending from Superior to the Brule River, was constructed in the
latter part of 1883, and crossed the land in question here, and
was approved in like manner January 31, 1884; the third section extended from the Brule River to Ashland, and was approved in like manner February 18, 1885. It appears further
that, March 6, 1865, one Josiah Perham, then the president of
the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, transmitted to the
office of the Land Commissioner a map purporting to show the
proposed general route of the Northern Pacific Railroad. Upon
this map there appeared two lines from a point in the present
State of North Dakota eastward, one terminating upon Lake
Superior at or near Duluth, and the other extending into Wisconsin some distance south of Lake Superior, and terminating
at the mouth of the Montreal River, this last named line being
apparently partially obliterated by a wavy red line. This map
Was accompanied by a letter from Perham, stating that it shows
the general line of the Northern Pacific Railroad from a point
on Lake Superior in Wisconsin to a point on Puget's Sound.
The Secretary of the Interior transmitted this map to the Land
Commissioner, suggesting the withdrawal of the lands along
the line, but the Land Commissioner soon afterward transmitted
a letter to the Secretary of the Interior recommending that the
map be rejected, for the reason that the same did not comply
with the rules of the land department, which recommendation
was approved by the Secretary. There is nothing to explain the
apparent alteration of this map nor to show when it was made,
and it is not shown that the directors of the company ever authorized the making or filing of the map, but it appears that
the president of the company had no power to make or file it.
"By act approved May 5, 1864. c. 79, 13 Stat. 64, Congress
granted ten sections of land per mile to the State of Minnesota

DOHERTY v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. 427
Statement of the Case.

to aid in the construction of a railroad from St. Paul to Lake
Superior. In the same year the legislature of Minnesota conferred this grant upon the Lake Superior and Mississippi Railroad Company, a Mvinnesota corporation, and afterwards known
as the St. Paul and Duluth Railroad Company. On January 1,
1872, this company had constructed and was operating a railroad from St. Paul to Duluth, by way of Thomson Junction,
which is upon the St. Louis River, and is the point from which
the Northern Pacific Railroad Company started to build its line
westward. On the last-named date the Northern Pacific Railroad Company purchased a one half interest in that part of this
road, extending from Thomson Junction to Duluth, for the sum.
of $500,000, and received a deed therefor. On the same day
the two companies made a written agreement providing for the
operation of trains and the maintaining of the road. On May 1,
1872, the Northern Pacific Railroad Company and the Lake
Superior and Mississippi Railroad Company made a further
agreement, by which the lines of the Lake Superior and Mississippi Railroad were leased to the Northern Pacific Railroad for
an annual rental, the land grant of the Lake Superior and Mississippi Railroad being expressly excepted from the operation
of the lease. Pursuant to this lease the Northern Pacific Railroad Company operated the entire railroad thus leased, from
May 1, 1872, until February 1, 1874, when it surrendered the
lines leased and relinquished all its interest under the lease, but
surrendered no rights under the deed. On the 12th of May,
1874, the Northern Pacific Railroad Company and the Lake
Superior and Mississippi Company made an agreement for the
operation of the line from Thomson Junction to Duluth.
"It further appears that, by act approved May 5, 1864, c. 80,
13 Stat. 66, the United States granted lands to the State of
Wisconsin to aid in the construction of a railroad from 3ayfield
to Superior, but no'road was constructed under this grant."
The Superior Court of Douglas County sustained the petition
and appointed commissioners as prayed for. An appeal was
taken to the Supreme Court of Wisconsin, which- court, on
June 23, 1898, reversed the order of the Superior Court, and
remanded the cause to that court with directions to dismiss the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

petition.

Northern Pacifl Railway v. Doherty, 100 Wiscon-

sin, 39.
Thereupon the cause was brought here by a writ of error
allowed by the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Wisconsin.
21r. C. W. Russell, for the United States.
xr. X. S. Bright for Doherty submitted on his brief.
fr. James B. Kerr and Ar. C. W. Bunn for the Northern
Pacific Railway Company.
MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS, after stating the case, delivered the opin-

ion of the court.
It is conceded that Doherty, the plaintiff in error, owns the
southwest quarter of section 4, township 47 north, of range 11
west, in Douglas County, Wisconsin, having made a homestead
entry thereof November 8, 1882, and obtained a patent therefor
February 6, 1890.
The Northern Pacific Railway Company, the defendant in
error, claims a right of way four hundred feet in width over and
across this quarter section, and has constructed and is operating
its railroad thereon. It is not claimed that this right of way
was acquired by purchase or condemnation, but it is claimed by
virtue of the terms of the act of Congress, approved July 2, 1864,
c. 217, 13 Stat. 365, incorporating the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, and granting to it, among other rights and
privileges, a right of way through the public lands of the United
States. This act authorized the corporation, thereby created,
to construct a railroad "beginning at a point on Lake Superior
in the State of Minnesota or Wisconsin" westward to "some
point on Puget's Sound," and the controlling question in this
case is whether the eastern terminus of the railroad constructed
under the act is at Duluth, Minnesota, or at Ashland, Wisconsin. If at Duluth, then the company acquired no right of
way over any public land in Wisconsin; but if at Ashland, then
it did acquire a right of way over public lands in Wisconsin,
including the land in question.

DOHERTY v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. 429
Opinion of the Court.

It is conceded that on August 2, 1884, the directors of the
Northern Pacific Railroad Company adopted a resolution fixing
the eastern terminus of the railroad at Ashland; that this resolution was transmitted to the Commissioner of the General Land
Office; that thereafter the Commissioner prepared a diagram
showing the final eastern terminus of the line at Ashland, and
sent the same to the district officers at Bayfield, Wisconsin, with
instructions to adjust the grant on this basis; that a continuous
line of railroad from Ashland to Puget's Sound in all respects
in accordance with the act of incorporation, and as depicted
upon its map of definite location has been constructed, and has
been accepted as such by the President of the United States.
Such concessions would seem to warrant a conclusion that the
defendant in error is entitled, as matter of right, to maintain
and operate its road upon a right of way over the land in dispute, and we are led to inquire why it is that such a conclusion
is disputed.
And, first, it is claimed by the plaintiff in error that the
Northern Pacific Railroad Company definitely located its eastern terminus at Duluth, January 1, 1872, when it purchased
one half of the track and right of way of the Lake Superior and
Mississippi Railroad Company from Thomson Junction to Duluth, and made a contract for operation of the line in common.
In reply to this claim the company denies that, by purchasing an interest in the line from Thomson Junction to Duluth,
it was ever intended by the company to make Duluth the eastern terminus, or that the arrangement with the Lake Superior
and Mississippi Railroad operated, as a matter of law, to fix
and determine Duluth as the eastern terminus; and attention
is called to the fact that it is provided in the act of July 2, 1864,
that before the Northern Pacific Railroad Company could cornmence the construction of its road it should obtain the consent
of the legislature, of any State through which any portion of
its line might pass. Such consent was obtained from the States
of Wisconsin and Minnesota ; and in the act of the latter State,
granting consent, it was in terms provided "that should the
company elect to make the eastern terminus"of said line east of
the eastern boundary of the tate of Minnesota, then, and in

OCTOBElt TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

that case, they shall construct, or cause to be constructed, a line
of railroad from the said main line to the navigable waters of
Lake Superior, within the State of Minnesota, of the same
gauge as said main line, for which purpose, the same powers,
rightsand privileges are hereby granted to said company as
they have or may have to construct said main line in the State
of Minnesota."
Evidently it was not intended by the legislature of Minnesota
by this enactment to compel the railroad company to make its
eastern terminus within the limits of that State. Indeed, the
act recognizes the right of the company to elect to make its
eastern terminus east of the limits of Minnesota.
It was, then, in compliance with the condition imposed by
Minnesota, namely, that in case the railroad company elected
to make its eastern terminus in Wisconsin, that the arrangement was made whereby the line from Thomson. Junction on,
the main line to Duluth became, as to one half thereof, the property, of the Northern Pacific Railroad Company.
We agree with the Supreme Court of Wisconsin in so regarding this transaction, and also in its holding that the arrangement between the Lake Superior and Mississippi Railroad Company and the Northern Pacific Railroad Company did not
constitute a consolidation of the companies in any legal sense,
so as to make the short line between Thomson Junction and
Duluth a part of the trunk line contemplated by Congress.
When, in August, 1870, the company located its proposed
general route, and when its map of such location was approved
by the Secretary of the Interior, showifig its eastern terminus
to be in Wisconsin, it became obligatory on the company to
comply with the condition imposed, in that event, to construct
a branch line to Lake Superior within the limits of Minnesota,
and hence the agreement with the Lake Superior and Mississippi Railroad Company.
It is next contended by the plaintiff in error that, even if
Duluth is not to be regarded as the eastern terminus of the
company's road, yet that when afterwards, in constructing its
road eastward fr6m Thomson Junction, the company's r6ad
reached the city of Superior, the latter thereby became the

DOHERTY v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. 431
Opinion of the Court.

point on Lake Superior which was to be regarded as the eastern
terminus; that the city of Superior was the first point at which
the Northern Pacific Railroad Company connected with Lake
Superior by its own road, and it thereby became the initial
point contemplated by the granting.act.
In connection with this proposition it is necessary to take notice of certain legislation of the State of Wisconsin.
By an act approved April 10, 1865, the legislature of that
State gave its consent, Unconditionally, to the Northern Pacific
Railroad Company to build and' maintain its road within the
state limits. Stats. 1865, c. 465.
On March" 25, 1872, the legislature passed an amending act,
whereby the consent previously given to the Northern Pacific
Railroad Company to construct and operate its road in the State
of Wisconsin was made subject to certain conditions, among
which were that the company should build and operate a line
of railroad running from the junction of the said main line of
the Northern Pacific RAilroad Company with the Lake Superior and Minnesota Railroad to the bay of Superior, and should
build and maintain at the latter point docks and piers suitable
for the transfer of passengers and freight between the railroad
and lake-going craft; and that until such connecting road and
docks were constructed, it should not be lawful for the company to construct or maintain any other railroad in Wisconsin.
Stat. 1872, c. 139.
To comply with this legislation it was necessary for the company to alter the line of its road as defined by its map of general route; so that the same might touch the lake at the bay of
Superior. But it does not follow that thereby the company.
abandoned its right to itself select the point of its eastern terminus. This and the similar legislation of Minnesota were not
intended or regarded as taking away from the company its
rights and powers under the act of Congress. They only imposed, whether lawfully or otherwise, certain conditions respecting branch line connections which the legislatures deemed
desirable for local advantage.
Some reliance is placed upon two decisions of the Secretary
of the Interior-the first rendered November 13, 1895, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

reported in volume 21, Land Decisions, 412; the second, rendered August 27, 1896, and reported in volume 23, Land Decisions, 204.
Those decisions were made by the Secretary in disposing of
a list of indemnity selections filed by the Northern Pacific
Railway Company, based on losses of lands within the place
limits lying east of the city of Superior. The opinion of the
Secretary was that because the company was empowered to
locate and construct a line of railroad from a point on Lake
Superior to some point on Puget's Sound, it had authority to
touch the lake at only one point, and that notwithstanding it
filed a map of definite location from Thomson Junction to
Ashland, the fact that the line so located and constructed
touched the lake at the city of Superior precluded the company
from extending its line eastward from that point. In his later
decision the Secretary concluded that the transaction between
the Lake Superior and Mississippi Railroad Company and the
Northern Pacific Railroad Company was, in legal effect, a consolidation of the two corporations, and that, therefore, the
eastern terminus of the Northern Pacific Railroad was definitely fixed at Duluth.
We do not care to repeat the considerations already advanced
going to show that, in our opinion, the right of the railroad
company, under the act of .July 2, 1864, to select its eastern
terminus at a point on Lake Superior in the State of Minnesota
or Wisconsin, was not intentionally, or by operation of law,
ended or determined by the company's compliance with the
conditions sought to be imposed by the legislation of Minnesota
and Wisconsin. The views of the Supreme Court of Wisconsin on this subject may be properly quoted: "On'March 6,
1865, one Josiah Perham, then president of the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, filed with the Secretary of the Interior
a map showing a proposed route of the proposed railroad. On
this map appear two lines from a point in North Dakota to
Lake Superior, one ending at Duluth and one at the mouth of
the Montreal River. The latter line is partially obliterated by
a wavy red line through its whole length. It appears affirmatively that the president had no authority to make or file this

DOHERTY v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. 433
Opinion of the Court.

map, and that the directors never authorized it; and further,
that on June 22, 1865, the map was rejected by the Land Commissioner and by the Secretary of the Interior because it did
not comply with the rules and regulations of the land department. No further action was ever taken upon it, and it seems
too plain to require argument that it can cut no figure in the
case. All the subsequent maps made and filed by the corporation, as well as its recorded acts, show the clear intention to
make the eastern terminus of the road in Wisconsin. In 1870
a map of general route was filed, showing the eastern terminus
to be at the mouth of the Montreal River; upon receipt of
which the odd-numbered sections of land within twenty miles
of the line were withdrawn from sale, homestead and 'preemption entry in the States of Minnesota and Wisconsin, and
the price of land in the even-numbered sections was raised to
$2.50 per acre, and large quantities sold by the United States
at that price. In 1882 a map of definite location of the line
from Thomson Junction eastward to a point in section 15,
township 47, range 2 west of the fourth P. M., was filed in the
land office at Washington. This line passed through Ashland
and terminated a few miles east of that city. This map was
approved, and the land grant adjusted in accordance therewith
by the department. In August, 1884, the board of directors
of the company, by formal resolution, fixed the eastern terminus of the road at Ashland, and a certified copy of the resolution was tiled in the General Land Office in December, 1884,
whereupon the Land Commissioner made a diagram showing
the eastern terminus so fixed, and adjusted the grant in accordance therewith.
"The portion of the road extending eastward from Thomson
Junction to Ashland was constructed in the years 1881, 1882,
1883'and 1884, and was examined in three sections by commissioners appointed by the President of the United States, as provided by the act of incorporation. The commissioners reported
favorably upon all of these sections, and their recommendations
were approved by the President,-the last approval being dated
February 6, 1885.
"All of these deliberate acts of the department and executive
VOL. CLXXVII-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

officers are brushed aside by Commissioner Smith on the ground
that the terminus of the road had been unalterably fixed at Duluth by the action of the Northern Pacific Railroad Company
in 1872. As we do not agree with the Commissioner's premise
we cannot agree with his conclusion, and therefore hold that
the terminus of the road is at Ashland, and hence that the railroad company had a right of way across the petitioner's land by
virtue of the provisions of the act of incorporation." Northern
Paoi#e Railway (Jompany v. Doherty, 100 Wisconsin, 39.
Ih a bill filed in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Minnesota by the United States against the
Northern Pacific Railroad Company, the Northern Pacific Railway Company and others, it was sought to have cancelled and
annulled a patent granted by the United States, on April 22,
1895, to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, for lot 5 of
section 29, township 54 north, of range 13 west, in the county
of St. Louis and State of Minnesota, a tract of land situated
more than ten miles east of Duluth, which the bill averred to
be the eastern terminus or eastern initial point of the grant to
the Northern Pacific Railroad Company by the act of July 2,
1864. The bill alleged that the patent had been granted through
inadvertence and mistake, and under an "erroneous impression
and mistaken belief that said tract of land was lying and being
within the limits of the aforesaid grant to the Northern Pacific
Railroad Company."
The case was so proceeded in, on bill, answer and an agreed
statement of facts, that on February 20, 1899, the bill of complainant was dismissed for want of equity; and this decree was,
on appeal to fhe Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, on July 10, 1899, by that court affirmed. United States
v. Northern Pao. 1. Co., 95 Fed. Rep. 864.
The controversy in that case involved the same questions as
those we have been considering in the present case of Doherty,
and the conclusions reached were, that the land department
committed no error of law when it held that the Northern
Pacific Railroad Company had authority under its charter to
locate its eastern terminus at Ashland, and made no mistake of
fact when it found that the Northern Pacific Railroad Company

UNITED STATES v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO. 435
Syllabus.

had actually selected Ashland as its eastern terminus. The
facts and reasoning relied on by the respective parties were, in
the main, the same with those that were relied on in the case in
the Supreme Court of Wisconsin, now under review in this
court.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Wisconsin is
Afflrmed.
MR. JUsTICE MOKENNA did not take part in the decision of

the case.

UNITED STATES v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD
COMPANY.
APPEAL EROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 408. Argued January 26, 29, 1900. -lDecided April 16, 1900.
The important questions of fact and law are substantially the same in this
case and in Doherty v. Northern Pacific Railway Company, ante, 421,
and that case is followed in this in regard to the questions common to
the two cases.
The obvious purpose of this suit was, to have the question of the proper
terminus of the company's road determined; and if that terminus was
found to be at Ashland, then the complainant would not be entitled to
any relief.
Under the act of July 2, 1864, non-completion of the railroad within the
time limited did not operate as a forfeiture.
As the bill, in this case, does not allege that it is brought under authority
of Congress, for the purpose of enforcing a forfeiture, and does not allege
any other legislative act, looking to such an intention, this suit must be
regarded as only intended to have the point of the eastern terminus judicially ascertained.
As the evidence and cqnceded facts failed to show any mistake, fraud or
rror, in fact or in law, in the action of the land department in accepting the location of the eastern terminus made by the company, and in
issuing the patent in question, the bill was properly dismissed.

