OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Syllabus.

tion of the time named in the statute; or to consider whether
the ordinary doctrines of courts of equity, which relieve a contracting party from forfeiture by reason of a failure to complete
the contract within a time fixed, when the work is subsequently
completed and accepted, would apply to a case like the present.
Undoubtedly there would seem to be room for a fair presumption that Congress was aware of the action of the President
and of the functionaries of the land department in the particulars before mentioned, and approved of the same. It is
not, as put by the counsel of the Government in his able brief,
the case of a waiver presumed from mere non-action, but from
non-action in the special circumstances disclosed.
As the evidence and conceded facts failed to show any mistake, fraud or error, in fact or in law, in the action of the land
department in accepting the location of the eastern terminus
made by the company, and in issuing the patent in question,the bill was properly dismissed, and the decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
Mr. Justice McKENNA did not take part in the decision of
the case.

CARTER v. TEXAS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CRIMINAL APPEALS OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 193. Submitted March 16, 1900. -Decided April 16, 1900.
Whenever by any action of a State, whether through its legislature, through
its courts, or through its executive or administrative officers, all persons
of the African race are excluded, solely because of their race or color,
from serving as grand jurors in the criminal prosecution of a person of
the African race, the equal protection of the laws is denied to him, contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States. And when a defendant has had no opportunity to challenge the
grand jury which found the indictment against him, the objection to the

CARTER v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.
constitution of the grand jury upon this ground may be taken, either by
plea in abatement, or by motion to quash the indictment, before pleading in bar.
The question whether a right or privilege, claimed under the Constitution
or laws of the United States, was distinctly and sufficiently pleaded and
brought to the notice of a state court, is itself a Federal question, in the
decision of which this court, on writ of error, is not concluded by the
view taken by the highest court of the State.
A person of the African race was indicted, in an inferior court of a State,
for a murder committed since the impanelling of the grand jury; and,
before pleading in bar, presented and read to the cuurt a motion to quash,
duly and distinctly alleging that all persons of the African race were excluded, because of their race and color, from the grand jury which found
the indictment; and, as was stated in his bill of exceptions allowed by
the judge, thereupon offered to introduce witnesses to prove that allegation, but the court refused to hear any evidence upon the subject, and,
without investigating whether the allegation was true or false, overruled
the motion, and the defendant excepted: After conviction and sentence,
he appealed to the highest court of the State in which a decision in the
case could be had. That court affirmed the judgment, upon the assumption that the defendant had introduced no evidence in support of the
motion to quash. Held, that this assumption was plainly disproved by
the statements in the bill of exceptions; and that the judgment of affirmance denied to the defendant a right duly set up and claimed by him
under the Constitution and laws of the United States, and must therefore
be reversed by this court on writ of error.
THE

case is stated in the opinion of the court.

fr. Tilford H. Smith and Kr. E. X. Hewlett for plaintiff
inerror.
JIr. T. S. Smith for defendant in error.
Mr.

JUSTICE

GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.

At November term, 1897, of the criminal district court, held
at the city of Galveston for the county of Galveston and State
of Texas, the grand jury, on November 26, 1897, returned an
indictment against Seth Carter for the murder on November 24,
1897, of Bertha Brantley, both being of the negro race.
The record states that at March term, 1898, when the case
was called for trial, the defendant, in open court, and before he

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

had been arraigned, or had pleaded to the indictment, presented
and read to the court a motion to quash the indictment.
The motion to quash was signed and sworn to by the defendant, and was in these words: "And now comes the said defendant, in his own proper person, and moves the court to set aside
and quash the indictment herein against him, because the jury
commissioners, appointed to select the grand jury which found
and presented said indictment, selected no person or persons of
color or of African descent, known as negroes, to serve on said
grand jury; but, on the contrary, did exclude from the list of
persons to serve as such grand jurors all colored persons or persons of African descent, known as negroes, because of their race
and color; and that said grand jury were composed exclusively
of persons of the white race, while all persons of the colored
race or persons of African descent, known as negroes, although
consisting of and constituting about one fourth of the population
and of the registered voters in said city and county of Galveston, and although otherwise qualified to serve as such grand
jurors, were excluded therefrom on the ground of their race and
color, and have been so excluded from serving on any jury in
said criminal district court for a great many years, which is a
discrimination against the defendant, since he is a person of
color and of African descent, known as a negro; and that such
discrimination is a denial to him of the equal protection of the
laws, and of his civil rights guaranteed by the Constitution and
laws of the United States. All of which the defendant is ready
to verify."
The record further shows that the court overruled the motion,
and to that ruling the defendant excepted in open court; that
the defendant was then arraigned and pleaded not guilty, and
was tried and convicted by a jury, and adjudged guilty by the
court, of murder in the first degree; and that a bill of exceptions was tendered by him, and was by the presiding judge approved, allowed and ordered to be made part of the record,
which stated that, "after reading the said motion) the defendant asked leave of the court to introduce witnesses, and offered
to introduce witnesses, to prove and sustain the allegations
therein made; but the court refused to hear any evidence in

CARTER v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

support of the said motion, and thereupon overruled the same,
without investigating into the truth or falsity of the allegations
of said motion; to which action of the court the defendant then
and there excepted."
The defendant appealed to the Court of Criminal Appeals of
the State of Texas, (being the highest court of the State in which
a decision in the case could be had,) which affirmed the judgment, and denied a motion for a rehearing. The opinions delivered by that court upon affirming the judgment, and upon
denying the motion for a rehearing, are set out in the record,
and are reported in 39 Texas Crim. 345. The defendant sued

out this writ of error.
The Code of Criminal Procedure of the State of Texas contains the following provisions:
"ART. 397. Any person, before the grand jury have been impanelled, may challenge the array of jurors, or any person presented as a grand juror; and in no other way shall objections
to the qualifications and legality of the grand jury be heard.
Any person confined in jail in the county shall, upon his request, be brought into court to make such challenge."
"ART. 559. A motion to set aside an indictment" "shall be
based on one or more of the following causes, and no other:

1. That it appears by the records of the court that the indictment was not found by at least nine grand jurors." "2. That
some person not authorized by law was present when the grand
jury were deliberating upon the accusation against" the defendant, or were voting upon the same."
"Ar. 561. The only special pleas which can be heard for the
defendant are: 1. That he has been before convicted legally, in
a court of competent jurisdiction, upon the same accusation, after having been tried upon the merits for the same offence.
2. That he has been before acquitted by a jury of the accusation
against him, in a court of competent jurisdiction, whether the
acquittal was regular or irregular."
The Court of Criminal Appeals, in its first opinion affirming
the judgment of the trial court, disposed of the objection to the
grand jury by holding that, by the very terms of article 559,
"the fact that people of African descent were not drawn by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

commissioners to serve as jurors upon the grand jury is not a

ground for setting aside an indictment;" and that the appellant
had not undertaken to bring himself within the purview of article 397, as to which the court said: "If there were any objections to the grand jury, or any member of it, they should have
been exercised by challenge, either to the array or to a particular member of said body. The question of challenge to the array
or to a particular juror is not suggested, nor is it shown that he
was debarred this right. It is too late, after indictment found,
to question the manner of impanelling a grand jury." 39
Texas Crim. 348, 349.
In the opinion delivered on denying the motion for a rehearing, the court substantially abandoned as untenable the positions taken in its first opinion; and admitted that "in this particular case no opportunity was afforded appellant to challenge
the array, because the grand jury which returned the bill against
him had been impanelled prior to the commission of this offence,"
and consequently that a motion to quash the indictment, made
after his arrest under it, and before his arraignment, was a proper
and timely mode of presenting a fundamental objection under
the Constitution and laws of the United States, although no
such objection was mentioned in the statutes of the State. And
the reasons assigned for denying the rehearing were that "the
motion to quash was based simply on the affidavit of appellant,"
and "the question was presented. to the court without any evidence whatever in support of it;" that "in this case the motion
to quash was not predicated on the record, but involved extraneous matters, and before the court would be authorized to act,
there must be some proof of the allegations contained in the
motion;" that "the motion was but a mere tender of the issue,
unaccompanied by any supporting testimony;" that "it names
no witness or person by whom it was proposed to prove the allegations of the motion;" and that " the bare recitation" (in
the bill of exceptions) "that the court refused to hear evidence
in support of said motion is without meaning, because in fact no
testimony was tendered by appellant." 39 Tex. Crim. 354-357.
The rules of law which must govern this case are clearly established by previous decisions of this court.

CARTER v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

Whenever by any action of a State, whether through its legislature, through its courts, or through its executive or administrative officers, all persons of the African race are excluded,
solely because of their race or color, from serving as grand jurors
in the criminal prosecution of a person of the African race, the
equal protection of the laws is denied to him, contrary to the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States.
Strauder v. West Virginia, 100 U. S. 303 ; Neal v. Delaware,
103 U. S. 370, 397; Gibson v. Mississippi, 162 U. S. 565.
When the defendant has had no opportunity to challenge the
grand jury which found the indictment against him, the objection to the constitution of the grand jury upon this ground may
be taken, either by plea in abatement, or by motion to quash
the indictment, before pleading in bar. United States v. Oale,
109 U. S. 65, 67.
The motion to quash on such a ground being based on allegations of facts not appearing in the record, those allegations, if
controverted by the attorney for the State, must be supported
by evidence on the part of the defendant. Smith v. Mississippi,162 U. S. 592, 601; Williams v. Mississippi,170 U. S. 213.
But the question whether a right or privilege, claimed under
the Constitution or laws of the United States, was distinctly and
sufficiently pleaded and brought to the notice of a state court,
is itself a Federal question, in the decision of which this court,
on writ of error, is not concluded by the view taken by the
highest court of the State.' Neal v. Delaware, 103 U. S. 370,
396, 397; Mitchell v. Clark,110 U. S. 633, 645; Boyd v. Thayer,
143 U. S. 135, 180.
In the case at bar, as may be inferred from the dates appearing in the record, and as is distinctly stated in the opinion delivered by the court below on denying a rehearing, the grand
jury had been impanelled before the commission of the offence
for which the defendant was indicted. He therefore never had
any opportunity to challenge the array of the grand jury, and
was entitled to present the objection on which he relied by
motion to quash.
The defendant's motion to quash the indictment was presented
to the court before he had been arraigned, or had pleaded to

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

the indictment. The motion, besides stating that the defendant
was of the African race, fully and specifically alleged, with
almost the precision of a plea in abatement, that the jury commissioners appointed to select the grand jury selected no persons
of African. descent to serve on the grand jury, but on the contrary excluded from the list all such persons because of their
race and color; that the grand jury was composed exclusively
of persons of the white race, while all persons of the African
race, although constituting about one fourth of the registered
voters in the county, and although otherwise well qualified to
serve as such grand jurors, were excluded therefrom on the
ground of their race and color, and had been so excluded from
serving on any jury in that court for a great many years; and
that this was a discrimination against the defendant, and a
denial to hin of the equal protection of the laws, and of his
civil rights guaranteed to him by the Constitution and laws of
the United States. And the motion concluded with the statement, " All of which the defendant is ready to verify."
The bill of exceptions tendered by the defendant, and allowed
by the presiding, judge, and made part of the record by his order,
explicitly states that "after reading the said motion, the defendant asked leave of the court to introduce witnesses, and offered
to introduce witnesses, to prove and sustain the allegations
therein made; but the court refused to hear any evidence in
support of the said motion, and thereupon overruled the same,
without investigating into the truth or falsity of the allegations
of said motion; to which action of the court the defendant then
and there excepted."
It thus clearly appears by the record that the defendant, having duly and distinctly alleged, in his motion to quash, that all
persons of the African race were excluded, because of their race
and color, from the grand jury which found the indictment,
asked leave of the court to introduce witnesses, and offered to
introduce witnesses, to prove and sustain that allegation ; and
that the court refused to hear any evidence upon the subject,
and overruled the motion, without investigating whether the
allegation was true or false.
The defena1ant having 'offered to introduce witnesses to prove

GREAT SOUTHERN FIRE PROOF HOTEL CO. v. JONES. 449
Syllabus.

the allegations in the motion to quash, and the court having
declined to hear any evidence upon the subject, it is quite clear
that the omission of the bill of exceptions to give the names of
the witnesses whom the defendant proposed or intended to call,
or to state their testimony in detail, cannot deprive the defendant of the benefit of his exception to the refusal of the court to
hear any evidence whatever. And the assumption, in the final
opinion of the state court, that no evidence was tendered by the
defendant in support of the allegations in the motion to quash,
is plainly disproved by the statements, in the bill of exceptions,
of what took place in the trial court.
The necessary conclusion is that the defendant has been denied
a right duly set up and claimed by him under the Constitution
and laws of the United States; and therefore
The judgment is reversed, and the case is remandedforfurther
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

GREAT SOUTHERN FIRE PROOF HOTEL COMPANY v.
JONES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 210. Argued March 21, 22, 1900.- Decided April 9, 1900.
On writ of error or appeal, the first and fundamental question is that of
jurisdiction, first of this court, and then of the court from which the
record comes. This question the court is bound to ask and answer for
itself, even when not otherwise suggested, and without respect to the
relation of the parties to it.
A limited partnership, doing business under a firm name, and organized
under the act of the General Assembly of Pennsylvania. approved June 2,
1874, entitled "An act authorizing the formation of partnership associations in which the capital subscribed shall alone be responsible for the
debts of the .association, except under certain circumstances," is not a
corporation within the rule that a suit by or against a corporation in a
court of the United States is conclusively presumed, for the purposes of
VOL. CLXXVnI-29

