496

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

CARTER v. ROBERTS.
APPEAL FROM AND ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
STATES FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 570. Submitted April 9, 1900.- Decided April 23, 1900.
Captain Carter, of the corps of engineers, in the army of the United States,
was duly and regularly tried before a legally convened court martial, was
found guilty of the charges made against him, and was sentenced to dismissal; to be fined; to be imprisoned; and to publication of crime and
punishment; and the sentence was duly approved and confirmed. On a
motion in his behalf the United States Circuit Court for the Second Circuit issued a writ of habeas corpus, to inquire into the matter, which resulted in the dismissal of the writ, and the remanding of Carter to custody.
He took an appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit,
which affirmed the judgment below, and this court denied an application
for.a writ of certiorari to review that judgment. An appeal and writ of
error was allowed on the same day by a Judge of the Circuit Court to this
Court. Held, That the appeal and writ of error could not be maintained,
as they fall directly within the ruling in Robinson v. Caldwell, 165 U. S.
359, where it was held that the judiciary act of March 3, 1891, does not
give a defeated party in a Circuit Court the right to have his case finally
determined both in this court and in the Circuit Court of Appuals on independent appeals.
When cases arise which are controlled by the construction or application
of the Constitution of the United States, a direct appeal lies to this court,
and if such cases are carried to the Circuit Courts of Appeals, those courts
may decline to take jurisdiction, or where such' construction or application is involved with other questions, may certify the constitutional question and afterwards proceed to judgment, or may decide the whole case
in the first instance. But when the Circuit Court of Appeals has acted
on the whole case its judgment stands unless revised by certiorari to or
appeal from that court in accordance with the act of March 3, 1891.

THESE were motions to dismiss or affirm. The case is stated
in the opinion of the court.
-tr. Solicitor Generalfor the motions.
Mr. AbraharnJ. Rose and 21r. Benjamin F. Tracy opposing.

M1i, CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER delivered the opinion of the court.

CARTER r. ROBERTS.
Opinion of the'Court.

Carter was a captain of the United States Army, assigned to
the corps of engineers. He was arraigned and tried before a
court martial in Savannah, Georgia, convened according to law,
upon certain charges and specifications; found guilty; sentenced
to dismissal; to suffer a fine; to be imprisoned; and to publication of crime and punishment. This sentence was approved
by the Secretary of'War and confirmed by the President of the
United States, September 29, 1899, and the Secretary.of War
took the necessary action for the execution of the sentence.
October 2, 1899, Carter obtained from the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York a writ of
4abeas corpus, directed to the military authority having him in
custody, for his production before the court, together with the
time and cause of his detention. He was accordingly produced,
and due return made, setting up that he was lawfully held in
custody by authority of General Orders No. 172, of September 29, 1899. During the pendency of the habeas corpus proceedings the fine imposed was paid. The Circuit Court dismissed the writ, and Carter was remanded to custody. 97 Fed.
Rep. 496.
From this final order, as appears from the records of this
court, and is conceded, petitioner prosecuted an appeal to the
United States Circuit Court of Alpeals for the Second Circuit.
The case having been there heard, that court, on January 24,
1900, entered judgment affirming the judgment of the Circuit
Court, with costs. On February 5,1900, an application for the
writ of certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals was made to
this court, which, on February 26, 1900, was denied. 176 U. S.
684.
On the same day an appeal from the final order of the Circuit Court directly to this court was allowed by a Judge of the
Circuit Court, as also a writ of error.
The eighth section of Art. I of the Constitution provides that
the Congress shall have power "to make rules for the government and regulation of the land and naval forces," and in the
exercise of that power Congress has enacted rules for the regulation of the army known as the Articles of War. Rev. Stat.
ยง 1342. Every officer, before he enters on the duties of his
VOL. CLXXVIi-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

office, subscribes to these articles, and places himself within the
power of courts martial to pass on any offence which he may
have committed in contravention of them. Courts martial are
lawful tribunals, with authority to finally determine any case
over which they have jurisdiction, and their proceedings, when
confirmed as provided, are not open to review by the civil tribinals, except for the purpose of ascertaining whether the military
court had jurisdiction of the person and subject-matter, and
whether, though having such jurisdiction, it had exceeded its
powers in the sentence pronounced.
The ground for an appeal directly to this court is said in the
briefs to be that the case involved the construction or application
of the Constitution, in that by the sentence petitioner was twice
punished for the same offence. But if the statutes authorized
the penalties in question to be inflicted in one and the same proceeding as punishment for the offences charged, then there was
no double punishment. And, as this was a case arising in the
land forces, it is hardly to be conceded, that the suggested constitutional objection was raised below as such by the bare averment
in. the petition that petitioner, having suffered the punishment
of dismissal and of publication, his "imprisonment is without
authority of law," and " his further punishment and detention,"
and "the carrying out of said sentence, is contrary to law and
the provisions of the Constitution of the United States, and is
illegal."
The Circuit Court stated the questions thus: "The contention
of the relator is that, conceding that the court martial had
jurisdiction of the person of the accused and of the offences
charged, and conceding, further, the regularity of its proceedings, and the propriety of its findings, it was without power to
impose the four separate punishments of dismissal, fine, imprisonment and degradation (special publication of sentence), although
it might have imposed either one of them. When application
was madefor the writ, it appeared that the first punishment
(dismissal from the service of the United States) and the fourth
(publication of sentence) had been carried out; and the relator
contended that, having thus paid a penalty which the court had
power to inflict, he could not be held to submit to another pen-

CARTER v. ROBERTS.
Opinion of the Court.

alty, which the court had no power to add to the one already
by it selected. Since the return was made the relator has also
paid the fine, and, although that fact does not appear upon the
face of the original papers, it has been discussed in the briefs
of both sides, and is now embodied in a stipulation, thus completing the case.
"If the relator's premises be sound, viz., that punishments have
been imposed in the aggregate, when the statute authorized
their imposition only in the alternative, his conclusion is supported by high authority. Ex parte Lange, 18 Wall. 163. In
that case it was held that when a court has imposed fine and
imprisonmeft, where the statute only conferred power to punish by fine or imprisomnent, and the fine has been paid,'and
the judgment of the court thus executed so as to be a full satisfaction of one of the alternative penalties of the law, the power
of the court as to that offence is at an end. The important
question in the case, therefore, is whether under the statutes of
the United States, the court martial had the power, under its
findings, to impose a sentence inflicting these four penalties.",
And the court, after considering that question at length, held
that the 6ourt martial had such power.
We need not discuss, however, whether a direct appeal could
have been taken in the first instance, as we are of opinion that,
even if so, the present appeal cannot be maintained. It falls
directly within the ruling in Robinson v. Caldwell, 165 U. S.
359. It was there held that the judiciary act of March 3, 1891,
does not give a defeated party in a Circuit Court the right to
have his case finally determined both in this court and in the
Circuit Court of Appeals on independent appeals. That case
was heard in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Idaho upon its merits, which included the consideration of questions involving the construction of a treaty and the
validity of an act of Congress. Judgment passed for plaintiff,
and defendant was allowed a direct appeal to this court. Pending this, defendant had also prosecuted an appeal to the Circuit
Court of Appeals, and the case was there again heard and determined. 29 U. S. App. 468. When subsequently the appeal
to this court was heard, it was dismissed, because we held that

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

we could not properly retain cognizance thereof in face of the
fact that the case had been adjudicated by the Court of Appeals, whose judgment remained undisturbed.
Pullman's Palace Car Company v. Central Transportation
Company, 171 U. S. 138, is not to the contrary. The Pullman
Company had taken an appeal directly from the Circuit Court
to this court, on the theory that the case involved the construction or application of the Constitution, and had also taken an
appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit.
The Circuit Court of Appeals overruled a motion to dismiss,
but postponed further argument until the appeal to this court
was disposed of. 39 U. S. App. 307. A motion to dismiss was
also made in this court, whereupon an application was made
for a writ of certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals, and,
by reason of the circumstances, was granted, and the record
returned by virtue of that writ. And we proceeded to dispose
of the case on the merits without passing on the question, which
had become immaterial, whether the direct appeal could have
been maintained or not.
The case before us presents no such features. It has been
regularly heard and gone to judgment in the Circuit Court of
Appeals, and an application duly made to this court for certiorari has been denied. These prior proceedings cannot be ignored
and the cause brought here as if they had not been had.
When cases arise which are controlled by the construction or
application of the Constitution of the United States, a direct
appeal lies to this court, and if such cases are carried to the
Circuit Courts of Appeals, those courts may decline to take
jurisdiction, or where such construction or application is involved with other ques.tions, may certify the constitutional
question and afterwards proceed to judgment, or may decide
the whole case in the first instance. Holt v. Indiana amnzfacturing Company, 46 U. S. App. 717; 176 U. S. 68; United
States v. Jahn, 155 U. S. 109; New Orleans v., Benjamin, 153
U. S. 411; Benjamin v. New Orleans, 169 U. S. 161. But
when the Circuit Court of Appeals has acted on the whole case
its judgment stands unless revised by certiorari to or appeal
from that court in accordance with the act of March 3, 1891.
Appeal and writ of error dismissed.

