OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

be determined without the aid of a jury,, unless a jury was
waived. Without repeating what was said in that opinion, we
also hold that the case made by the plaintiff was not such as to
entitle him to a mandatory injunction.
The decree is reversed and cause remanded for such further
proceedings as may be consistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

WESLEY v. EELLS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT CO1RT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 176. Argued and submitted March 9, 1900.-Decided April 9, 1900.

Specific performance of an executory contract is not of absolute right. It
rests entirely in judicial discretion, exercised, it is true, according to the
settled principles of equity, and not arbitrarily or capriciously, yet always with reference to the facts of the particular case.
A court of equity will not compel specific performance if under all the circumstances it would be inequitable to do so.
It is a settled rule in equity that the defendant in a suit brought for the
specific performance of an executory contract will not be compelled to
take a title about which doubt may reasonably exist or which may expose him to litigation.
Speaking generally, a title is to be deemed doubtful where a court of coordinate jurisdiction has decided adversely to it or to the principles on
which it rests.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. William I. Lyles for appellant.
fr. Arthur St. J.Newberry for appellee.
Mr. William A. Barber as amicus curice, filed a brief.
MN[R. JUSTICE H[ARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was brought in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Ohio by Wesley a citizen
of New York against Eells a citizen of Ohio.

WESLEY v. EELLS.
Opinion of the Court.

The case made by the bill was as follows: The State of South
Carolina, being the owner in fee of certain real estate situated
in the city of Columbia in that State - part of the property
being known as Agricultural Hall - caused the same to be sold
at public auction, Wesley becoming the purchaser.
By the terms of sale the purchaser was required to pay in
cash one third of the price and to execute his bond and mortgage on the property to secure payment of the balance in two
equal annual instalments with interest from the date of purchase, the obligor to have the option of paying the whole or
any part of the sum so secured before the maturity thereof.
At the instance of Wesley the Commissioners of the Sinking
Fund of South Carolina executed a deed in fee simple for the
property to one J. W. Alexander who consented to act as
trustee for the plaintiff, the deed however not containing any
declaration of the trust. Thereupon Alexander executed to
the Treasurer of the State his bond for the payment of the
mortgagor being accorded the privilege
purchase price -the
of paying before maturity the whole or any part of the money
secured.
The mortgage not having then been filed for record, and
Wesley having furnished to Alexander a sufficient amount of
what is known as South Carolina Revenue Bond Scrip, the
latter tendered to the state Treasurer of South Carolina in such
scrip the principal and interest of the above bond. That officer
had authority to receipt for the sum due on the bond and mortgage. The tender was refused by the state Treasurer.
By the laws of South Carolina a tender in full of the amount
due on a mortgage of real or personal property at any time
when the mortgagor has the right to pay the same operates as
a satisfaction and extinguishment of the lien of the mortgage,
whether the amount be accepted or not and whether the mortgagor keeps himself in a position to make good the tender or
not.
Notwithstanding the tender, the state Treasurer caused the
above mortgage to be recorded in the proper office.
Subsequently, Alexander conveyed the premises in question
to Wesley.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

The bill contains a statement of the history of the abovementioned revenue bond scrip and of the plaintiff'9 connection
therewith. Reference was made to the act of the General Assembly of South Carolina approved the 15th day of September,
1868, entitled "An act to authorize additional aid to the Blue
Ridge Railroad Company in South Carolina," and to the act
approved the 2d day of March, 1872, entitled "An act to relieve the State of South Carolina of all liability for its guaranty
of the bonds of the Blue Ridge Railroad Company by providing
for the securing and destruction of the same," which provided
for the issue of certificates of indebtedness styled revenue bond
scrip, which should express that the sum mentioned therein
was due by the State to bearer, and that the same would be
received in payment of taxes and all other dues to the State
except special taxes levied to pay interest on the public debt.
By the fourth section of the above act of 1872 the faith and
funds of the State were pledged for the ultimate redemption
of the revenue bond scrip and county treasurers were required
to receive the same in payment of all taxes levied by the State,
except in payment of special taxes levied to pay interest on the
public debt, and the state Treasurer and all other public officers
were required to receive the same in payment of all dues to
the State.
The plaintiff had received from the state Treasurer of South
Carolina under the circumstances detailed in the bill (which
need not be repeated) a large amount of revenue bond scrip.
He stated that he was the owner and holder of the scrip received by him and charged in his bill that by the tender to the
state Treasurer the Alexander mortgage had been extinguished
by operation of law.
The revenue bond scrip referred to was in the following form:
$100.

No. 21.

$100.

Revenue Bond Scrip.
THE STATE OF

[Palmetto Tree]

SOUTH CAROLINA.

COLUMBIA, S. C., farch -, 1872.
Receivable as one hundred dollars in payment of all taxes

WESLEY v. EELLS.
Opinion of the Court.

and dues to the State, except special tax levied to pay interest
on public debt.
NILEs G. PARKER, State Treasurer.
One hundred dollars.
One hundred dollars.
Such being Wesley's relations to the mortgaged property he,

made a written contract with Eells whereby he agreed for the
price of $20,000 to be paid in cash to convey to the latter in
fee simple the premises in question, free from any valid lien or
incumbrance whatever.
The plaintiff offered to deliver to Eells a deed for the premises in fee siihple and demanded payment of the purghase price.
But Eells refused to receive the deed or to pay the price, alleging that the scrip tendered by Alexander were not valid obligations of South Carolina and therefore did not constitute a legal
tender of the amount due the State nor operate as an extinguishment of the mortgage.
The plaintiff brought into court and tendered a deed to Eells
and offered to agree that the plaintiff might retain so much of
the price for the property as would protect' it against any; taxes
that had accrued upon it.
The relief asked was a decree that the defendant should accept the deed tendered to him and pay the purchase price of
the property, less any sum to meet the taxes assessed upon it.
The defendant admitted in his answer that there were no
liens or incumbrances upon the property except the mortgage
described in the bill and such taxes as were due thereon to' the
State and to the city of Columbia. But he alleged that the
statute authorizing revenue bond scrip to be received in payment of dues to the State had been repealed, and county auditors and county treasurers forbidden to collect any taxes for
the redemption of such scrip; that the act under which the
scrip was issued was in violation of the Constitution of the
United States forbidding the States from emitting bills of
credit and also in violation of the constitution of South Carolina, and such scrip was null and void.
The defendant stated in his answer that he had always been
and was then willing to perform his contract, provided he re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

ceived a full and perfect title to the premises free from any
valid lien and was protected in the quiet and peaceable possession thereof.
The plaintiff filed a general replication, and the cause was
submitted on the pleadings and certain documentary evidence
showing the history of the revenue bond scrip, the legislation
of South Carolina, and certain decisions of the Supreme Court
of that State.
The Circuit Court of the United States held that the bond
scrip issued under the act of March 2, 1872, were bills of credit
and void; that the tender of scrip by Alexander to the state
Treasurer was therefore not a valid tender and did not operate
to extinguish the mortgage given by Alexander to the State;
and that the Agricultural Hall property was still incumbered
by the mortgage and plaintiff could not give defendant a clear
title to it. The bill was dismissed at the plaintiff's cost.
In the memorandum of evidence used by stipulation of the
parties reference was made to the case of Tindal v. Wesley,
167 U. S. 204, 221. But the decision there has no bearing
upon the present case. That was an action by Wesley to recover the possession of the property here in dispute-the
defendants being in possession only in their capacities as officers or agents of South Carolina, and insisting that the suit
against them was, in legal -ffect, one against the State within
the meaning of the Eleventh Amendment of the Constitution
of the United States. "The settled doctrine of this court,"
it was said in that case, "wholly precludes the idea that a
suit against individuals to recover possession of real property
is a suit against the State simply because the defendant holding possession happens to be an officer of the State and asserts
that he is lawfully in possession on its behalf.

.

.

.

Whether

the one or the other party is entitled in law to possessiofi is a
judicial, not an executive or legislative, question. It does not
cease to be a judicial question because the defendant claims
that the right of possession is in the government of which he
is an officer or agent." , These extracts indicate the scope of
the decision in Tindal v. Wesley and make it clear that that
decision does not determine any question now presented.

WESLEY v. EELLS.
Opinion of the Court.

The vital question in the present case is whether the plaintiff
was entitled to a decree for specific performance. The plaintiff
bases his right to such a decree upon the ground that Alexander's
tender of revenue bond scrip to the Treasurer of South Carolina
had the effect to extinguish the lien of the mortgage executed by
him, and consequently that plaintiff's deed conveying the fee
would give to Eells a good title. This view assumes that the
revenue bond scrip tendered by Alexander to the state Treasurer
was legally receivable in payment of the amount on the Alexander bond and mortgage. But as will be seen from an examination
of the cases of State ex rel. Shiver v. Comptroller General,4 S. C.

185, and Auditor v. Treasurer,4 S. C. 311, the Supreme Court
of South Carolina has held that the revenue bond scrip issued
under the act of March 2, 1872, were bills of credit which the
Constitution of the United States forbade the States to emit,
and therefore were null and void. And in that view the court
below concurred. What then will be the effect of a decree in
the Circuit Court of the United States sitting in Ohio requiring the defendant to pay the amount he agreed to pay and to
take the deed tendered him by the plaintiff? What would the
defendant get under such a decree in consideration of the amount
paid by him for the property? He would get a deed from Wesley for premises covered by a mortgage of record which the
highest court of the State in which the property is situated will
presumably hold not to have been discharged by the tender of
revenue bond scrip. And we do not perceive that Eells could
by any affirmative action on his part bring the question of the
validity of that tender before any court in South Carolina for
adjudication. He could not sue the State against its consent,
and no suit except one to which the State was a party would
effectively reach such a question and release the property from
the incumbrance created by the Alexander mortgage. So that
if compelled to take Wesley's deed Eells would.be powerless to
have his title made clear of record, unless the State brought
suit to foreclose the mortgage and thereby enabled him in defence to reiitigate the question already concluded in the courts
of that State by judicial decision. It is thus manifest that a
decree for specific performance would put: upon him a title that

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

was not at all marketable and could not become such except by
successful litigation.
In liennessy v. ioolworth, 128 U. S. 438, 442, this court said:
"Specific performance is not of absolute right. It rests entirely
in judicial discretion, exercised, it is true, according to the settled principles of equity, and not arbitrarily or capriciously, yet
always with reference to the facts of the particular case" -citing Willard v. Tayloe, 8 Wall. 557, 567; Marble Co. v. Ripley,
10 Wall. 339, 357; 1 Story's Eq. Jur. ยง 742; Seymour v. Delancey, 6 Johns. Ch. 222, 224. To the same effect are ioCabe v.
]atthews, 155 U. S. 550, 553; Rust v. Conrad, 47 Mich. 449,
454; Petty v. Roberts, 7 Bush, 410, 41.9; Huntington v. Rogers,
9 Ohio St. 511, 516. A court of equity will not compel specific performance if under all the circumstances it would be
inequitable to do so. Starnes v. Newsomn, 1 Tenn. Chy. Rep.
239, 244; Parishv. Oldham, 3 J. J. Mar. 544, 546; Clowes v.
Higginson, 1 Ves. & Beames, 524, 527.
Again, it is a settled rule of equity that the defendant in a
suit brought for the specific performance of an executory contract will not be compelled to take a title about which doubt
may reasonably exist or which may expose him to litigation.
Morgan's Heirs v. Morgan, 2 Wheat. 290, 299, 301; City of
Tifin v. Sltawhan, 43 Ohio St. 178, 183. And, speaking generally, a title is to be deemed doubtful where a court of cordinate jurisdiction has decided adversely to it or to the principles
on which it rests. Fry on Specific Performance, 3d ed. ยง 870
and authorities there cited. One 6f the grounds upon which a
decree for specific performance was denied in Hepburn v. Auld,
2 Cranch, 262, 278, was that it would impose upon the defendant the necessity of bringing a suit to perfect his title.
The principle is well illustrated in Jefries v. Jeffries, 117 Mass.
184, 187, which was a suit for the specific performance of a
written agreement for the purchase of certain real estate. One
of the objections to the title was that it was incumbered by
conditions that would interfere with the enjoyment of the property. The Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts there said:
"Hence the propriety and the necessity of the rule in equity
that a defendant, in proceedings for specific performance, shall

WESLEY v. BELLS.
Opinion of the Court.

not be compelled to accept a title in the least degree doubtful.
It is not necessary that he should satisfy the court that the title
is defective so that he ought to prevail at law; it is enough if
it appear to be subject to adverse claims which are of such a
nature as may reasonably be expected to expose the purchaser
to controversy to maintain his title, or rights incident to it.
Richmond v. Gray, 3 Allen, 25 ; Sturtevant v. Jaques, 14 Allen,
523; Hayes v. H1armony Grove Cemetery, 108 Mass. 400. He

ought not to be subjected, against his agreement or consent, to
the necessity of litigation to remove even that which is only a
cloud upon his title." So in Lowry v. luldrow, 8 Rich. Eq.
241, 247, the court said that on bills for specific performance of
contracts concerning lands, "courts of equity do not force the
purchasers to take anything but a good title, and do not compel
them to buy lawsuits." Numerous other American cases announce the same rule.
The principle is also illustrated in many English cases. In
Parker v. Tootal, 11 11. L. Cas. 143, 158, it was said to be an
established rule of equity not to compel a purchaser to take a
doubtful title. In Rose v. Calland,5 Ves. 185, 187, which was
a suit by devisees in trust to obtain the specific performance of
an agreement entered into by the defendant for the purchase
of an estate, certain reasons were given why the plaintiff could
not make a sufficient title, one of which was that the Court of
Exchequer, in Nagle v. *Edwards,3 Anstr. 702, had announced
principles which, if followed, would prevent the defendant
from obtaining such a title as he ought to have. The Lord
Chancellor said: "If I was to send this case to the master, I
should create a needless expense; for upon the case in the Court
of Exchequer, Nagle v. Edwards, which I have looked into,
my difficulty is this: Can I make a person take a title in the
face of that decision? If I do, I decree him to enter into a lawsuit.

.

.

.

I desire to be understood as not entirely agree-

ing with the determination of the Court of Exchequer. But I
should be in a strange situation in desiring a purchaser to take
this title, because I think the point a pretty good one, though
the Court of Exchequer have determined against it. It is telling him to try my opinion at his expense." So in Pricev.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

Stange, 6 Madd. Chy. 159, 165, in which the Vice Chancellor
said: "In attempting to lay down a rule upon this subject, I
should say that a purchaser is not to take a property which he
can only acquire in possession by litigation and judicial decision." In Pyrke v. Waddingham, 10 Hare, 1, 8, it was held
that the court will not compel a purchaser to take a title that
"will expose him to litigation or hazard."
We are of opinion that the plaintiff's title is not such as a
court of equity should compel the defendant to accept. He
should not have been compelled to accept it even if the court
below had been of opinion that the revenue bond scrip tendered
by Alexander were not bills of credit.
Upon the grounds stated, and without expressing any opinion
upon the question whether the revenue bond scrip referred to
were or were not bills of credit within the meaning of the Constitution of the United States, the decree below is
Affirmed.

Ex parte BAEZ.
ORIGINAL.
No.

Submitted March 26, 1900.-Decided April 12, 1900.

It is well settled that this court will not proceed to adjudication where
there is no subject-matter upon which the judgment of the court can
operate: and although the application in this case has not reached that
stage, still as it is obvious that before a return to the writ can be made,
or any other action can be taken, the restraint of which the petitioner
complains would have terminated, the court feels constrained to decline
to grant leave to file the petition for a writ of habeas corpus and certiorari; but, in arriving at this conclusion, it is not to be understood as intimating, in any degree, an opinion on the question of jurisdiction, or
the other questions pressed on its attention.

ON March 26 a motion was made for leave to file the following petition for the writ of habeas corpus and certiorari:
"Your petitioner, Riamon Baez, by Tulio Larrinaga, for him-

