OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Syllabus.

the suit, refused to sign the bond, and would have nothing more
to do with the suit.

.

.

.

Appellant then demanded pay-

ment of the five thousand dollar note, and was refused. Appellant spent over $500 in money and $500 in services prosecuting
the makers of the $5000 note; followed it to the Supreme
Court of Arizona, and would have gone further, but appellee
refused to let its name be used and he was compelled to stop.
Appellant then demanded credit for the $5000 note."
Those facts, however, are not a part of the counter-claim and
it is hardly necessary to say cannot be considered in passing on
a motion for judgment based on a confession of the allegations
of the counter-claim.
Nor can it be said that such facts should have been found by
the lower court, because, as we have seen, under the statement
of the case as considered by that court, the questions for decision was the sufficiency of the averments of the c.ounter-claimn
as a defence.
We repeat, therefore, that we are confined to the propositions
we have stated above and discussed, and as there was no prejudicial error in the ruling of the Supreme Court of the Territory on them, its judgment is
Ajflhred.

LOS ANGELES v. LOS ANGELES CITY WATER COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 148.Submitted March 15, 1900. -Decided

April 30, 1900.

July 22, 1868, Los Angeles City leased to Griffin and others for a named
sum its water works for a term of 30 years and granted them the right to
lay pipes in the street, and to take the water from the Los Angeles River

at a point above the dam then existing, and to sell and distribute it to the
inhabitants of the city, reserving the right to regulate the water rates,
provided that they should not be reduced to less than those then charged

LOS ANGELES v. LOS ANGELES CITY WATER CO. 559
Statement of the Case.
by the lessees. The lessees agreed to pay a fixed rental, to erect hydrants and furnish water for public uses without charge, and at thd expiration of the term to return the works to the city in good order and
condition, reasonable wear and damage excepted. This contract was
procured for the purpose of transferring it to a corporation to be formed,
which was done. Subsequently the limits of the city were extended as
stated by the court, and the expenses of the corporation were increased
accordingly. The city subsequently established water rates below those
named in the contract, and the company collected the new rates, without
in any other way acquiescing in the change. This suit was brought by
the company to enforce the original contract. Held,
(1) That the power to regulate rates was an existent power,, not granted
by the contract, but reserved from it with a single limitation, the
limitation that it should not be exercised to reduce rates below
what was then charged, and that undoubtedly there was a contractual element, but that it was not in granting the power of regulation, but in the limitation upon it.
(2) That the city of Los Angeles, by its solemn contract, and for various considerations therein stated, gave to the party under whom
defendant claims, the privilege of introducing, distributing and
selling water to the inhabitants of that city, on certain terms and
conditions, which defendant has complied with, and it was not
within the power of the city authorities, by ordinance or otherwise, afterward to impose additional burdens as a .condition to the
exercise of the rights and privileges granted.
(3) By acquiescing in the regulations of rates ever since 1880 the company is not estopped from claiming equitable relief and is guilty of
no laches.

THIS suit involves the constitutionality of an ordinance of the
city of Los Angeles, adopted February 23, 189Y, fixing the
water rates to be charged and collected by the Los Angeles
City Water Company for the year ending June 30, 1898.
It is claimed that the ordinance impairs the obligation of the
contract made with the grantors of the company on the 20th
of July, 1868.
The facts were stipulated, and are substantially as follows:
On the 22d of July, 1868, the city of Los Angeles entered
into a contract with John S. Griffin, P. Beaudrv and Solomon
Lazard, whereby it leased its water works to the said persons
and their assignees for a term of thirty years, with the right
to lay pipes in the streets of the city, and to sell and distribute
the water for domestic purposes to the inhabitants of the city ;

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

also with the right to take water from the Los Angeles River
at a point at or above the present dam, to be selected within
sixty days of the date of the contract. It was provided that no
more than ten inches of water should be taken from the river
without the previous consent of the mayor and common council.
The city bound itself not to make any other lease, sale, contract, grant or franchise to any person, corporation or company
for the sale or delivery of water to the inhabitants of the city
for domestic purposes during the continuance of the contract.
And it was provided "that the mayor and common council
of said city shall have, and do reserve the right to regulate the
water rates charged by the said parties of the second part, or
their assignees, provided that they shall not so reduce such
water rates or so fix the price thereof as to be less than those now
charged by the parties of the second part for water;
"
The said persons agreed to pay the city a rental of fifteen
hundred dollars for the water works; to lay down in the streets
of the city twelve miles of iron pipes of sufficient capacity to
supply the inhabitants with water for domestic purposes; to
extend the pipes as fast as the citizens would agree to take sufficient water to pay ten per cent upon the cost of such extension; to erect one hydrant, as protection against fire, at one
corner of each crossing of streets where pipes were or iflight be
laid; to erect an ornamental fountain on the public plaza at a
cost not exceeding $1000 ; to construct and erect, within two
years, such reservoirs, ' machinery, ditches and flumes as would
secure the inhabitants with a constant supply of water for domestic purposes ; to furnish water free of charge for the public
school houses, hospitals and jails; to keep in repair all or said
improvements, at the cost and expense of the parties of the second part, for said term of thirty years, and to return said water
works to said party of the first part at the expiration of said
term, in good order and condition, reasonable wear and damage
of the elements excepted, upon payment to said parties of the
value of the aforesaid improvements, to be ascertained as provided for in the contract; to give a bond in the sum. of twenty
thousand dollars for the performance of said contract, and to
pay all state and county taxes assessed upon the water works
during the period of thirty years.

LOS ANGELES v. LOS ANGELES CITY WATER CO. 561
Statement of the Case.

And as the Circuit Court found, 88 Fed. Rep. 720, 723:
' Griffin, Beaudry and Lazard applied for and procured said
contract on behalf and for the benefit of themselves and other
persons, with the intention of forming a corporation to carry
out said contract, and afterwards, about the middle or latter
part of August, 1868, themselves and said other persons being
the incorporators, organized, under the laws of the State of
California, the Los Angeles City Water Company, for the purpose of supplying the inhabitants of said city with water for
domestic purposes, etc., under the terms of said contract; and
assigned all their rights and franchises under said contract to
said company by a written instrument dated June the 12th,
1869, and recorded in the office of the recorder of said county
of Los Angeles, June the 15th, 1869.
"On April the 2d, 1870, the legislature of California passed
an act hereinafter set forth, in terms ratifying and confirming
said contract.
"Griffin, Beaudry and Lazard did nothing personally in carrying out said contract or constructing or maintaining said
water works, but said company, after it 'had organized, took
possession of said water works, and has performed all of the
above-mentioned obligations of said contract, except the one

providing for the return of the water works at expiration of
lease, and, in such performance, has laid 320 miles of pipe,
erected
500 hydrants for protection against fire, and constructed over
six reservoirs, with an aggregate capacity of
nealy
sixty-six millions of gallons, and is now, as it has beenat all
times since the contract was made, furnishing the city of Los

Angeles with water for the extinguishment of fires and for the
public schools, hospitals and jails in said city free of charge.
The aforesaid extensions of the water works were rendered
necessary by the'growth of said city, whose population in 1868
was between 5000 and 6000, and is now about 103,000.
"During the whole of the year 1868 the territorial limits of
the city of Los Angeles were as follows: Four square leagues
in a square form; the centre of which was the centre of the old
pueblo plaza.
"About 1872 the limits were extended 420 yards south of
VOL. CLXXVIi-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

the former south boundary, and within the past three years,
and prior to July, 1897, the limits were further extended so as
to take in between ten and fifteen square miles of additional
adjoining territory. Immediately after the extension of the
said limits, the Los Angeles City Water Company began to extend its pipes over the said addition to the city as the same was
settled up and improved, and ever since has been and is now
furnishing water to the people in said district added to the orig,inal territory of the city, and, upon the demands of the city
council, erected fire hydrants within the said additional territory and furnished water free of charge, and has in all respects
continued to lay pipes, erect fire hydrants, and furnished the
inhabitants with water for domestic uses in like manner as it
has conducted the same business within the original limits of
the city as established by the act incorporating it, and, so with
the more recent extensions of the city limits, to wit, those made
within the last three years, the company has also extended its
pipes in portions of those limits and furnished water in the
same way.
"The quantity of water required to supply the domestic
wants of the people of said city is one inch of water, measured
under a four-inch pressure, to every one hundred inhabitants.
To meet the increased demands upon it for water under said
contract said company has, among other things, purchased the
system known as the Beaudry system of water works, and also
certain water rights in the Arroyo Seco, and conducted water
from the Arroyo Seco into the city on the east side of the Los
Angeles River, and has been furnishing the inhabitants of that
portion of the city with water from said system, and also acquired the stock of the corporation known as the East Side
Spring Water Company, the same mentioned in paragraph 10
of the complaint.
"In the growth of the city its settlement extended to localities of higher elevation than those occupied by its inhabitants
at the time of said contract, and the point originally selected
for the diversion of the water of the Los Angeles River for
supplying the city and its inhabitants, as in said contract provided, was so located in said river that it was impracticable to

LOS ANGELES c. LOS ANGELES CITY WATER CO. 563
Statement of the Case.

there maintain dams and diversion works that would not occasionally be swept away or rendered useless by floods, and the
surface water of the river after severe storms' became muddy
and unfit for supplying the inhabitants with water for domestic uses, and in the year 1889 the Crystal Springs Land- and
Water Company made excavations in the places referred to in
the bill of complaint and laid the pipes therein as alleged, and
the water that has been used by the Los Angeles City Water
Company for supplying the city with water, as provided in
said contract, has ever since been obtained from that source,
except that from time to time a further supply of water has
been taken from the Los Angeles River in order to supply said
inhabitants, which diversions have been at or near the place
where the said underground pipes are laid, and that by these
means the water can be delivered to the higher elevations, and
the underground waters, as to quality and amount, are thus
protected against the influences of floods.
"The Los Angeles City Water Company ever since its incorporation has taken more than ten inches of water, measured
under a four-inch pressure, from the Los Angeles River, and
the anount taken has increased with the increase of the population of the city and the demands of the municipality itself
for water for extinguishing fires and the other public puirposes
referred to in the said contract, and the amount has increased
until now it requires from 1000 to 1500 inches of water, ineasured under a four-inch pressure, for such purposes, and during
the summer season the amount of water used by the Los Angeles City Water Company for the purposes aforesaid runs
from 1000 to 1500 inches under a four-inh pressure, inclusive
of the water obtained by the underground excavations, which
latter furnish from 650 to 690 inches, measured under a fourinch pressure.
"The city of Los Angeles had always had flowing in the Los
Angeles River, at the point from which said Los Angeles City
Water Company has always diverted water from said river, a
quantity of water sufficient to have supplied, said Los Angeles
City Water Company with all the water required to supply said
city and its inhabitants with water for domestic purposes and

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

municipal uses, and has never objected, up to October 20, 1896,
to said Los Angeles City Water Company taking as much water
from said river as it might require for said uses, and during all of
said period said city has never objected to said company's taking
from the surface stream of said river at said point as much water
as said company needed for said uses.
"On October the 19th, 1896, the city council of the city of
Los Angeles adopted a resolution requiring the Los Angeles City
Water Company to pay to the city of Los Angeles an amount
of money equal to forty per cent of the gross rates received by
said company from the consumers of water as rental for all
water taken by said company from the Los Angeles River, and
before the 21st day of October, 1896, to attorn to the city of
Los Angeles, as tenant of said city, for all of the water so taken
from said river, and to agree to pay said rental to said city, and
in case of failure to attorn and agree to pay said rental, to refrain from diverting, taking or interfering with any of the water
mentioned in said resolution (except-ten inches) after the 20th
day of October, 1896.
"On October the 19th, 1896, the city attorney, in writing,
notified the Los Angeles City Water Company and the Crystal
Springs Land and Water Company of said resolution, and demanded compliance therewith, delivering a copy of said resolution to each of said companies. Neither of them ever attorned
to said city for said water or any part thereof, or ever agreed
to pay any rental for the same. After the passage of said resolution and ever since said notification, up to the present time, the
Los Angeles City Water Company has continually taken from
the Los Angeles River, at a point above the northern boundary
of said city, for the purposes of distribution and selling the same
in said city, a quantity of water varying from 400 to 1000
inches, measured under a four-inch pressure.
"On the 19th day of April, 1870, the common council of the
city of Los Angeles accepted, and the mayor approved, the
following report:'
"'To the honorable the mayor and common council of the city
of Los Angeles and the Los Angeles City Water Company:
"1The undersigned commissioners, duly appointed on behalf

LOS ANGELES v. LOS ANGELES CITY WATER CO. 565
Statement of the Case.

of your honorable bodies to adjust, fix and establish the rates
and charges of the Los Angeles City Water Company, (a corporation duly incorporated under the laws of the State of California for the purpose of supplying the inhabitants of Los
Angeles City with pure, fresh water), respectfully report that
they have established water rates and charges for domestic purposes, taking as a guide as near as can be the charges and rates
for domestic purposes charged in July, 1868; that your committee have also fixed the rates and charges for other reasonable
objects and purposes, and report as follows, to wit.'
"Then follow the rates agreed upon.
"The conrimissioners referred to in said report had been previously selected, two by the city and two by the Los Angeles
City Water Company.
"In June, 1871, the city council, on a report of a committee
constituted similarly to the one above mentioned, established the
same rates as those established in April, 1870.
"On the 13th of August, 1874, a committee, constituted in
the same manner and for the same purposes as the committee
already mentioned, reported that they had established water
rates and, charges for domestic purposes, taking as a guide, as
near as possible, the charges and rates for domestic and other
reasonable objects and purposes charged in July, 1868. The report was adopted and a committee appointed in conjunction
with the city attorney to draft an ordinance embodying the
rates fixed in said report, and thereafter, on August the 20th,
1874, an ordinance so drawn was adopted by the council of said
city, and the rates established by said ordinance were the same
as those established in 1870 and 1871.
"Since and including the year 1880 the city council of the
city of Los Angeles has in February of each year passed an ordinance fixing the rates to be charged by all corporations and
persons within said city supplying water to the inhabitants
thereof, to be in force for one year from and including July
the 1st, which rates have been less than the rates charged in
1870, as contained in the ordinance hereinbefore mentioned,
and the Los Angeles City Water Company has collected the
rates thus fixed by the city of Los Angeles, and no more; but in

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

the year 1896 the council of the city of Los Angeles passed an
ordinance fixing the rates to be charged for water for the year
commencing July the 1st, 1896, and ending June 30; 1897, at
less than they had ever been fixed before, and a suit was then
brought by the complainants herein in this court against the
city of Los Angeles to set aside the said ordinance; and in February of the year 1897 the city of Los Angeles passed the ordinance which is assailed in this suit, making a still further reduction in the rates.
"The action of the Los Angeles City Water Cempany in collecting the rates fixed by said several ordinances constitutes the
only acquiescence (if it be an acquiescence) in the action of said
council.
"If the rates established in 1870 were collected for the year
beginning July the 1st, 1897, and ending June the 30th, 1898, the
revenues received by the Los Angeles City Water Company
from said rates would be more than fifty thousand dollars in
excess of the amount which would be received under the rates
named in the ordinance of February, 1897.
"In January, 1882, the Los Angeles City Water Company
furnished to the council of the city of Los Angeles a statement
of its transactions for the preceding year; protesting at the
same time against the establishment of any rates less than those
which were in force at the date of the lease hereinbefore mentioned; to wit, July the 22d, 1868.
"In January, 1883, said company again furnished said council
with a statement showing the names of the consumers of water,
the rates paid during the year preceding the date of the statement, and also an itemized statement of the expenditures made
for supplying water during the year preceding, but expressly
denying any legal right on the part of the council to demand
said statement or to fix any rates less than those which were in
force in July, 1868.
"Similar statements, accompanied by similar protests, were
made annually thereafter up to and including the year 1889,
and since that time unverified statements or reports showing
its receipts and expenditures have been made by said company
to the city council each year.

LOS ANGELES v. LOS ANGELES CITY WATER CO. 567
Statement of the Case.

"Article XIV of the present constitution of California,
adopted in 1879, is as follows:
"'ARTICLE XIV.
"

Water and Water Rights.

"'SECTION 1. The use of all water now apprqpriated, or that
may hereafter be appropriated, for sale, rental or distribution,
is hereby declared to be a public use, and subject to the regulation and control of the State, in the manner to be prescribed
by law: Provided, that the rates or compensation to be collected by any person, company or corporation in this State for
the use of water supplied to any city and county, or city or
town, or the inhabitants thereof, shall be fixed, annually, by
the board of supervisors, or city and county, or city or town
council, or other governing body of such city and county, or
city or town, by ordinance or otherwise, in the manner that
other ordinances or legislative acts or resolutions are passed by
such body, and shall continue in force for one year and no longer.
Such ordinances or resolutions shall be passed in the month of
February of each year, and take effect on the first day of July
thereafter. Any board or body failing to pass the necessary
ordinances or resolutions fixing water rates, where necessary,
within such time, shall be subject to peremptory process to compel action at the suit of any party interested, and shall be liable
to such further processes and penalties as the legislature may
prescribe. Any person, company or corporation collecting
water rates in any city and county, or city or town in this State,
otherwise than as so established, shall forfeit the franchises and
water works of such person, company or corporation to the city
and county, or city or town, where the same are collected, for
the public use.
"' SEC. 2. The right to collect rates or compensation for the
use of water supplied to any county, city and county, or town,
or the inhabitants thereof, is a franchise, and cannot be exercised except by authority of and the manner prescribed by law.'
"To carry out these provisions of the constitution, the legislature of California passed an act entitled ' An act to enable

OCTOBER TERM,; 1899.
Statement of the Case.

the board of supervisors, town council, board of aldermen,' etc.,
which was approved March the 7th, 1881. (Statutes of California 1881, page 54.)
"In the year 1888 the electors of the city of Los Angeles,
pursuant to provisions of the constitution of said State authorizing them so to do, adopted a charter for said city, which
charter was, under the provisions of said constitution, submitted
to the legislature of said State for its approval, ratification and
adoption, and the said charter was, on the 31st day of January,
1889, adopted by said legislature, and thereupon became and
ever since has been the charter of the said city of Los Angeles,
and by the said charter it is provided, in section 193 as follows:
"' The rates of compensation for use of water to be collected
by any person, company or corporation in said city shall be
fixed annually by ordinance and shall continue in force for one
year, and no longer. Such ordinance shall be passed in the
month of February of each year, and take effect on the first
day of July thereafter. Should the council fail to pass the necessary ordinance fixing the water rates within the time hereinbefore prescribed, it shall be subject to peremptory processes
to compel action at the suit of any party interested.'
"The ordinance of 1897 now sought to be annulled was
passed pursuant to the foregoing constitutional and statutory
provisions."
A decree was entered for complainants, (appellees,) adjudging
that that part of the contract entered into between the city of
Los Angeles and Griffin, Beaudry and Lazard, in so far as said
contract' provides that the city shall not reduce the water rates
below those charged on the date of said contract, is valid, and
that the ordinance of February 23, 1897, reduced the water rates
below those so charged, and "impaired the obligation of such
contract, and said ordinance is null and void; and it is further
ordered, adjudged and decreed that the said ordinance be, and
the same is, hereby vacated and set aside and held for naught."
From the judgment this appeal is taken.
The assignments of error present the contentions discussed
in the opinion.

LOS ANGELES v. LOS ANGELES CITY WATER CO. 569
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. S. 0. Ioughton and XMr. Walter F. Haas for appellants.
.Xr. Stephen X. White and Mr. John Garber for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA, after stating the case, delivered the
Opinion of the court.
. The Circuit Court decided that the provision of the contract
executed by the city and Griffin, Beandry and Lazard constituted a contract, and the ordinance of the city regulating the
rates of appellees impaired it. Against this conclusion the appellant contends: (i) The contract only purports to bind the
city in its corporate capacity-the city as landlord and owner,
and not as a governmental agent of the State. (2) The city did
not have power to bind the State; (3) the provision of the contract, restraining the city from granting any other franchise, if
it created an exclusive franchise, invalidated the whole contract;
(4) the act of 1870, purporting to ratify the contract of 1868, is
unconstitutional and void; (5) the water company has no power
under its charter to collect water rates except as prescribed by
the constitution and statutes of the State; (6) by acquiescing in
the regulations of rates ever since 1880 the company is estopped
from claiming equitable relief, and is guilty of laches; (7) the
water rates established by the ordinance are not shown to be
lower than those charged in 1868, or, if lower, that the revenue
of the company is reduced; (8) if the ordinance is invalid, it is
void on its face, and there is, therefore, no cloud on the company's title; (9) the company violated the contract by taking
water from the Los Angeles River, and, therefore, is not entitled to specific performance.
We will consider these contentions in their order.
1. The contract only purports to bind the city in its corporate
capacity-the city as landlord and owner, and not as governmental agent, of the State.
The argument to support the contention, succinctly stated, is
that the right to regulate rates came from the contract, not from
the law. In other words, it was reserved from the contract and
was a virtual granting back by the lessees of the proprietary

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

right, which would have otherwise passed by the lease, leaving,
however, all municipal powers intact.
The provision of the contract is as follows: "Always provided, that the mayor and common council of said city shall
have, and do reserve, the right to regulate the water rates
charged by said parties of the second part, or their assigns, provided that they shall not so reduce such water rates, or so fix
the price thereof, to be less than those now charged by the parties of the second part for water."
The municipal powers of the city provided in the act of incorporation, among others, were: "To make by-laws or ordinances,
.
.
to make regulations to prevent and extinguish
fires,
to provide for supplying the city with water."
It is not denied that the city had power to regulate rates.
Indeed, it is insisted that it was so constantly its duty that it
could not be contracted away. It was not a power, therefore,
necessary to be granted by the contract,.and the distinction between the proprietary-right and the municipal right, made by
appellants, would have been idle to observe. To have limited
the right of regulation to the city in one capacity, and left it
unrestrained in the other, would have been useless, and such intention cannot be attributed to the parties. We think, therefore, the power to regulate rates was an existent power, not
granted by the contract, but reserved from it, with a single limitation-the limitation that it should not be exercised to reduce
rates below what was then charged. Undoubtedly there was a
contractual element; it was not, however, in granting the power
of regulation, but in the limitation upon it. Whether the limitation was and is valid is another consideration.
2. The city did not have the power to bind the State.
This contention as expressed is very comprehensive, and seems
to deny the competency of the State to give the city the power
to bind it. We do not, however, understand counsel as so contending, norcould they. Walla Walla v. Walla Talla Water
Company, 172 U. S. 1; see also People v. Slepk4ens, 62 Cal. 209.
We understand the argument to be that the power, if not expressly given, will not be presumed unless necessarily or fairly
implied in or incident to other powers expressly given-not

LOS ANGELES v. LOS ANGELES CITY WATER CO. 571
Opinion of the Court.

simply convenient, but indispensable to them. In other words,
the rule of strict construction is invoked against the grant of
such power to the city.
Th'e rule is familiar. It has often been announced by this
court, and quite lately in Citizens' Street Railway v. District
Railway, 171 U. S. 48.
The effect of the rule in the case at bar we are not required
to determine if the act of April 2, 1870. c. 437, Stats. 1869-70,
635, ratifying the contract is valid.
It reads as follows:
"An act to ratify certain acts and ordinances of the mayor
and common council of the city of Los Angeles.
"The people of the State of California, represented in senate
and assembly, do enact as follows:
"SixcTIos 1. The following acts, contracts and ordinances of
the mayor and common council of the city of Los Angeles are
hereby ratified aind confirmed : The contract and lease for the
care and maintenance of the Los Angeles City Water Works,
entered into and made between the mayor and common council
of the city of Los Angeles, on the one part, and John S. Griffin,
Prudent Beandry and Solomon Lazard, on the other part, dated
the twentieth (20th) day of July, eighteen hundred and sixtyeight (1868;) and also the ordinance confirmatory of the same,
passed July the twenty-secofid (22d), eighteen hundred and sixtyeight, which contract and ordinance are recorded in the office
of the county recorder of Los Angeles County, in book one of
iniscellaneous records, pages four hundred and twenty-eight (428)
to four hundred and thirty-one (431 ;) (here follows certain other
ordinances and deeds not affecting the contract in question.)"
Appellants assert that the act violates the following provision
of the constitution of the State:
"Corporations may be tormed under general laws, but shall
not be created by special act, except for municipal purposes.
All general laws and special acts passed pursuant to this section
may be altered from time to time or repealed."
At the time of the passage of the act of 1870, the contract of
1868 had been assigned to the water company, and the facts
show that it was applied for and procured on behalf of Griffin,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

Beandry and Lazard, and other persons, with the intention of
forming a corporation to execute its provisions, and for such
purpose they and other persons organized under the laws of the
State the Los Angeles City Water Company, the appellee. It
is hence argued that the act of 1870 confers franchises on the
company by a special act instead of by a general law, and
thereby infringes the constitutional provision, and against the
existence of such power in the legislature the following cases are
cited: Low v. City of ffarysvillj, 5 Cal. 2t4; San Franciscov.
Spring Valley Water Works, 48 Cal. 493; Orville & Virginia
Railroad Co. v. Plasmas County, 37 Cal. 354; Spring Valley
Water Works v. Bryant, 52 Cal. 132; San Franciscov. Sjpring
Valley Water Works, 53 Cal. 608; San Francisco v. Spring
Valley Water Works, 48 Cal. 493.
Of these cases, only Low v. City of Jfarysville and Orville
& Virginia Railroad (Jo. v. Plumas County were decided before the passage of the act of 1870.
It was held in Low v. City of Jl'farysville that the legislature
was prohibited from conferring upon a municipal corporation
powers other than governmental by a special act. Chief Justice
Murray said:
.
.
.
for as it would have been a violation
of the constitution to create a corporation by special act, for
any other than municipal purposes, it follows that it would be
equally unconstitutional to confer special power on a corporation already created. In other words, it would be doing, by
two acts, that which the legislature could only do by one; and
corporations for almost every purpose might be created by special act by first incorporating the stockholders as a municipal
body."
But in CaliforniaState Telegraph Co. v. Alta Telegraph Co.,
22 Cal. 398, decided at July term, 1863, a contrary doctrine was
announced. It was held that the legislature could grant exclusive franchises and privileges to persons or corporations; that
if granted to a person they could be assigned to a corporation,
and that a corporation could receive from the legislature a direct.
grant of special privileges and franchises. The case necessarily
involved all of those propositions.
The right and privilege passed on were granted by an act of

LOS ANGELES v.. LOS ANGELES CITY WATER CO. 573
Opinion of the Court.

the legislature, and consisted of the exclusive right to 0. E.
Allen and Clark Burnham to construct and put in operation a
telegraph line from San Francisco to the city of Marysville.
They assigned the right to the California State Telegraph Company. The court said: "1The case presents the following questions for our adjudication: 1st, is the act of May 3, 1852,
granting certain exclusive privileges to Allen and Burnham,
constitutional? 2d, have the plaintiffs the power or right to
purchase, hold and enjoy these exclusive privileges?"
Both propositions were answered in the affirmative. Of the
second the court said:
"The next and most important question is whether the plaintiff, a corporation, had the power to purchase and hold the
special privileges granted by the act to Allen & Burnham. It
is not disputed that those grantees had power to sell and convey,
for the act specially makes the grant to them or ' their assigns,'
thus clearly making the privileges assignable. But it is urged
that the clause in the constitution which prohibits the legislature
from creating a private corporation by special act equally prohibits them from conferring any powers or privileges of a corporate character by special law; and that all the powers and
privileges which a corporation can exercise or hold must be
derived from a general law, applicable alike to all corporations.
"It is clear that the constitution prohibits the legislature
from 'creating' corporations by special act, except for municipalpurposes; and it is equally clear that this prohibition extends
There is nothing in the language used
only to their 'creation.'
which either directly or impliedly prohibits the legislature from
directly granting to a corporation, already in existence and
created under the general laws, special privileges in the nature
of a franchise, by a special act, or prohibiting a corporation
from purchasing or holding such franchises, which may have
been granted to others. To giv6te constitution any such effect
we would be compelled to interpolate terms not used, and which
cannot be implied without a perversion of the language employed. To give it such a construction we would have to make
it read thus: ' Corporations may be formed, and otherfranchise8

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

and special privileges granted, under general laws, but shall not
be created or granted by special act, except for municipal purposes.' If such had been the meaning intended by the framers
of the constitution, they could have easily expressed it in apt
words. The language used by them is clear and they well
knew that it included but one of a numerous class of franchises, the subjects of legislative grant, and that a regulation of
one could not by any reasonable implication be extended to
others not mentioned."
And the learned justice who delivered the opinion of the
court concluded the discussion by saying: "I hold, then, that
the plaintiffs, as a corporation, were capable of receiving a grant
of these special privileges directly from the legislature and of
purchasing them from the grantees."
There was an implied recognition of the same doctrine in
Spring Valley Water Works v. San Francisco,22 Cal. 434.
But it is urged by appellants that Orville & Virginia Railroad Co. v. J'lunias County, (decided in April, 1868,) held "that
the legislature could not authorize the county to grant special
privileges to a private corporation, and this was confirmed in
Waterloo Turnpike Co. v. Cole, 51 Cal. 384, (decided in 1876)."
The latter case we may disregard, as it was decided subsequently
to the act of 1870. The former case did not decide as contended,
nor was the point involved in it. The action was mandamus to
compel the county to subscribe to the capital stock of the railroad company under an act of the legislature directing the supervisors of the county to meet at a designated day and take
and subscribe to the capital stock of the railroad company.
The defence was not want of power in the legislature to direct the subscription -not want of power in the company to
receive it because it was a corporation, but want of power to
receive because it was not a corporation. Against this it was
urged that the act of the legislature recognized the company as
a corporation. To the contention the court replied: "But it is
claimed that the existence of the corporation is recognized by
the act requiring the county to subscribe to the stock of the
company. Admitting such to be the case, that will not overcome the difficulty, for a corporation of this character cannot

LOS ANGELES v. LOS ANGELES CITY WATER CO. 575
Opinion of the Court.

be created by legislative recognition ; the constitution (art. IV,
sec. 31,) prohibiting the creation of corporations, except for
municipal purposes, otherwise than by general laws."
It follows, therefore, that at the time of the contract of 1868
and of the passage of the ratifying act of 1870 it was established
by the decision of the highest court of the State that the constitution of the State permitted a grant of special franchises to
persons and corporations, and permitted the latter to receive assignments of them from such persons or grants of them directly
from the legislature. This law was part of the contract of 1868,
as confirmed by the act of 1870, and could not be affected by
subsequent decisions. Rowan et at. v. Runnels, 5 How. 134;
Ohio Life Ins. &f Trust Co. v. Debolt, 16 How. 416; laveneyer
v. Iowa County, 3 Wall. 294; Chicago v. Sleldon, 9 Wall. 50;
Olcott v. The Supervisors, 16 Wall. 678; 2UXeCullough v. Virginia, 172 U. S. 102. Nor by the new constitution of 1879.
New Orleans Gas Co. v. Louisiana Liglt Co., 115 U. S.650;
Fisk v. Jefflerson Police Jury, 116 U. S. 131; St. Tammany
Water Works v. New Or)leans Vater IWorls, 120 U. S.64.
The subsequent decisions of the Supreme Court of the State
have not been uniform. San Franciscov. Spring Valley11V ter
IVorks unqualifiedly overruled C0alfornia State Telegraph Co.
v. Alta Telegraph Co., but People v. Stavford, 77 Cal. 360, restored its doctrine to the extent, at least, of holding that the
constitutional provision that "corporations may be formed by
general laws, but shall not be created by special act," only prohibits the creation of corporations and conferring powers upon
them by legislative enactment, and does not prohibit " the assignment of a franchise to a legally organized corporation by
persons having the lawful right to exercise and transfer them."
See also San Luis Water Co. v. Es4rada, 117 Cal. 168.
There are expressions in the latter case which, it is urged,
notwithstanding the modification by it and by People v. Stan,ford of the doctrine of San Francisco v. Spring Valley Water
1 orks, make that doctrine applicable to the case at bar. The
San Luis Water Company was a corporation, and was formed
for the purpose of furnishing the town of San Luis Obispo and
the inhabitants thereof with pure fresh water.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

By an act of the legislature, entitled "An act to provide for
the introduction of good and pure water into the town of San
Luis Obispo," approvedlMarch 28, 1872, a franchise was granted
for that purpose to Al. A. Benrimo, C. W. Dana and W. W.
Hays. The San Luis Water Company claimed to be the assignee of the franchise. The assignment was attacked on the
ground that it was invalid under the constitution of the State.
The court said: "The precise point made is, that the power to
supply a. city with water cannot be conferred directly or indirectly upon a private corporation by special act."
And further : " The grant to 3enrimo and his associates was
also to their assigns. There can be no doubt but that they
might, by the terms of the grant, sell or assign the franchise.
It seems to me too plain to require argument that the purchase
by the plaintiff was strictly and directly within its powers and
contributed necessarily and directly to its objects and purposes."
But the learned commissioner who delivered the opinion also
said: " If any connection could be traced between the plaintiff
and the passage of the special act of 1872, or it appeared that
the act was obtained for the purpose of evading the constitutional inhibition, I could see how the case of San Franciscov.
pSring Valley hater WForks, supra, might apply. But, in view
of the facts in this case, I cannot regard the article of the constitution mentioned or the case last cited as having any application here." But this is not a decision that the case vould
apply. And if it is a concession of strength in the argument
it is not a concession of conclusive strength.
We are not concerned, however, to reconcile the cases decided
since 1870, and we have only mentioned them to present fully
the contention of appellants. The cases prior to that time, as
we have seen, made the obligation of the contract of 1868, and
determined the power of the legislature to ratify it. And there
seems to have been no question of this power. Besides legislative recognition, besides recognition by many acts of the city,
the contract has received judicial recognition. Taxation upon
the property acquired to execute it has been sustained. Los
Angeles v. Los Angeles Water Works Co., 49 Cal. 638. It was
interpreted, and under its provisions the company denied corn-

LOS ANGELES v. LOS ANGELES CITY WATER CO. 577
Opinion of the Court.

pensation for water used in sprinkling the streets of the city.
Los Angeles Water Co. v. Los Angeles, 55 Cal. 176. An ordinance was declared void imposing a license upon the company
for doing business in the city. Los Angeles v. Los Angeles
Water C1o., 61 Cal. 65. Its right to take more than ten inches
of water from the river was sustained in Los Angeles v. Los
Angeles Water Co., 124 Cal. 368.
The case in 61 Cal. 65, was heard in department and in bane,
and the contract received careful consideration. The judgment
of the trial court was for the water company, and department
2 of the Supreme Court, affirming it, said:
"The court was correct in its judgment. The plaintiff had
already reserved a sum to be paid by defendant for the privilege of vending water for domestic purposes, and it could not
change its contract in the manner proposed. The privileges
granted by the lease and the ordinance of 1868 were already
vested in the defendant as strongly as they could be by a license
under the ordinance of 1879. A license is a grant of permission
or authority. The defendant already had permission and authority granted by ordinance and ratified by the legislature.
The city cannot, during the term of the lease, of its own motion,
increase the amount to be paid for the privileges granted.
"It is hardly necessary to say that the point made by the
appellant, that neither the city nor the legislature can grant or
alienate any of the rights of sovereignty, has no application to
this case."
The court in bane, through its Chief Justice, approved this
language, and after quoting cases, said:
"The authorities of the city of Los Angeles by a contract
(the validity of which has not been challenged by either party)
and for certain valuable considerations therein expressed, granted
to the defendant's assignors the privilege of supplying the city
of Los Angeles and the inhabitants thereof with fresh water
for domestic purposes, with the right to receive the rents and
profits thereof to their own use; " and after citing cases to show
that the exaction of the license would impair the obligation of
the contract, concluded as follows:
"The principles enunciated in the foregoing cases are emivoL. CLXXvII-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court,

nently, sound and just, and are directly applicable to the case
we are now considering. The city of Los Angeles, by its solemn
contract, and for various considerations therein stated, gave to
the party under whom defendant claims the privilege of introducing, distributing and selling water to the inhabitants of that
city on certain terms and conditions, which defendant has complied with, and it was not within the power of the city authorities, by ordinance or otherwise, afterward to impose additional
burdens as a condition to the exercise of the rights and privileges granted."
3. The provision of the contract, restraining the city from
granting any other franchise, if it created an exclusive fr'anchise, invalidated the whole contract. 4. The act of 1870, purporting to ratify the contract of 1868, is unconstitutional and
void. 5. The water company has no p~ower under its charter
to collect water rates except as prescribed by the constitution
and statutes of the State.
These contentions are dependent upon the same reasoning as
the preceding one, and do not require a separate discussion.
6. By acquiescing in the regulations of rates ever since 1880
the company is estopped from claiming equitable relief and is
guilty of laches.
There was no such acquiescence as estopped the water company from contesting the ordinance of the city. The facts are
that in 1880 the city passed an ordinance to be in effect one
year, establishing water rates, and passed one every year thereafter, including 1897, when the one hi controversy was passed.
The rates established by the ordinances were less than those
adopted in 1870, and the latter are claimed to have been not
higher than the rates charged in 1868. The company collected
the rates established by the ordinances, except those established
in 1896 and 1897. A suit was brought by the company to set
aside the ordinance of 1896, and that of 1897 is assailed in the
case at bar. These ordinances fixed the rates at less than they
had been fixed before. The company has also every year since
1882 filed a statement with the city council, showing the names
of the consumers of water, the rates paid and the expenditures
made for supplying water for the preceding year, The company

LOS ANGELES v. LOS ANGELES CITY WATER CO. 579
Opinion of the Court.

always protested against the right of the city to demand statements, and claimed to make them solely for its information.
The company also in 1882 protested against the power of the
city to fix rates on any other basis that that of the contract of
1868. The city therefore cannot claim to have been deceived
by the action of the company in collecting the rates established
prior to 1896. They were less, it is stipulated, than those of
1870, but how much less we are not informed. It is true we
are not informed how much less those fixed in 1896 and 1897
are than those of the prior years. They are less, "less than
they had ever been fixed before," is the stipulation ; and they
will, according to the stipulation, produce more then fifty thousand dollars less revenue than those of 1870.
Acquiescence in a regulation which, all things considered,
may not have been injurious, does not preclude a contest of that
which is injurious. It must be remembered that the contract
(lid not forbid all regulation, but only regulation beyond a certain limit. There was no concession of a power to go beyond
that limit, but constant protest against it ; and when its exercise
did go beyond that limit, producing injury not balanced by other
considerations, the right to restrain it would naturally be, and
we think, could legally be, exerted. As we have said, there was
no concealment, no misleading, no injury, no change of condition, no circumstance which could invoke the doctrine of estoppel or of laches. Appellants, however, assert there was, and
claim that the acquiescence of the water company was induced
by the fear that the city would prevent the unlimited use of the
river water-a use beyond the ten inches claimed to be allowed
by the contract, and a use against other and proprietary rights
of the city. Of the latter the record does not enable us to form
a judgment. Of the former the Supreme Court of the State
(121 Cal. siq)ra) has decided against the contention of the city.
We approve the decision and hereafter quote its language. The
appellants' inference, therefore, is without the support of anything in the record.
7. The water rates established by the ordinance are not shown
to be lower than those charoed in 1868, or, if lower, tha the

revenue of the company is reduced,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

To sustain this contention it is claimed by appellants that
there is no testimony in the record to show that the rates established in 1897 were lower than those charged in 1868. Appellants say :
"The only thing which complainants rely on to establish
this
fact is the recital in the report of a committee of the council
appointed in 1.870 for the purpose of agreeing with the water
company upon a schedule of water rates to be charged, in which
it stated (by the joint committee) ' that they have established
water rates and charges for domestic purposes, taking as a guide,
as near as can be, the charges and rates for domestic purposes
charged in July, 1868. That your committee have also fixed
the rates and charges for other reasonable objects and purposes,
and report as follows.'"
It is urged this is not a statement that the rates fixed in 1870
were equal to those of 1868; indeed, that they may ha've been
higher. And it is also urged there is a distinction made between
rates for domestic purposes and rates for "other reasonable objects and purposes," which may mean not domestic purposes,
and as to these it does not appear upon what they were based.
We are not disposed to dwell long on these claims. It is incredible that the city should have demanded statements from
the company yearly; have passed ordinances yearly, and provoked and endured an expensive litigation to establish rates
higher than or the same as those which already existed. If
statements and ordinances were necessary in fulfilment of the
duty of the city under the constitution of the State, neither
controversy or litigation was necessary, nor would either have
ensued.
It is urged under this head that it is not shown that the income of the water company is less under the rates fixed by the
city than under those of 1868. The showing would be irrelevant. The contract concerns rates, not income, and the power
of the city over them under the contract.
8. If the ordinance is invalid, it is void on its face, and there
is, therefore, no cloud on the company's title.
The contention is that "if the contract of 1868 is valid, and
the ordinance of 1897 reduces the income of the company below

LOS ANGELES v. LOS ANGELES CITY WATER CO. 581
Opinion of the Court.

that which it should receive, the ordinance is void on its face
as being in conflict with the Federal Constitution, and is no
cloud on complainants' title."
It is hence deduced that the water company has adequate
legal remedies, and cannot resort to an equitable one.
We concur with the learned trial judge that the ordinance is
not void on its face. As said by him'In the case at bar, however, the ordinance upon its face is
valid, 88 Fed. Rep. 747, 748, and its invalidity appears only
when considered in connection with the contract of July the
22d, 1868, and evidence showing what the water rates were at
that date. While the court'takes judicial notice of the ratifying act of April 2, 1870, still, since the provisions of the contract
of July the 22d, 1868, are not embodied in said act, I am not
sure that said provisions are matters of judicial knowledge, although such seems to be the ruling of the court, (one of the
justices dissenting,) in Brady v. Page, 59 Cal. 52. Conceding,
however, that the court will take judicial notice of all the provisions of said contract, still the one in question simply provides
that water rates shall not be reduced below the rates then
charged, without indicating what those rafes were, and therefore the invalidity of the ordinance appears, not upon its face,
but only in connection with extraneous evidence of what the
rates were in July, 1868, and for this reason complainants have
adduced that evidence in the present case."
And further"The defendants must either submit to the terms of the ordinance, or incur unusually onerous expenditures. It is reasonably certain that if, with the ordinance standing, they were to
undertake the collection of rates in excess of those prescribed
in the ordinance, they would be resisted at every point by the
consumers of water, and thus be driven to innumerable actions
at law. Besides, should they, in any instance, succeed in collecting, without an action, a higher rate than the ordinance prescribes, it is equally certain that they would thereby bring upon
themselves protracted and heavy litigation, having for its object
forfeiture of their entire system of works. Surely these injuries
are irreparable, and actions at law, so far from being adequate

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

to the exigencies of the situation, are, as complainants, in their
brief, forcibly put it, mere mockeries of a remedy."
9. The company violated the contract by taking water from
the Los Angeles River, and, therefore, is not entitled to specific
performance.
In reply to this contention we may adopt the language of the
Supreme Court of the State of California, used on behalf of the
court by Mr. Justice McFarland, in 1os Angeles v. Los Angeles
City Water Company, 124 Cal. 377.
The contract of 1868 and the right of the water company to
take water from the river was considered and decided. The
learned justice said:
"Before considering the main questions in the case, it is
proper here to notice a preliminary point made by the city, and
somewhat insisted on, to wit: That the only quantity of the
water of the Los Angeles River to which the water company is
entitled under the contract is ten inches under a four-inch pressure. This contention cannot be maintained. The words of
the contract on this subject are simply that the company shall
not take from the river ' more than ten inches of water without
the previous consent' of the city ; there is nothing in the contract about ' four-inch pressure,' nor is there any intimation as
to what the parties meant by 'ten inches' of water. But, looking at the context and the subject matter of the contract, it is
quite evident that the parties did not mean only ten inches
under a four-inch pressure. If that had been the meaning, there
would have been no sense in the other important covenants.
At the time of the contract it would have taken many times
ten inches under a four-inch pressure to furnish water for domestic purposes to even the few thousand people who were then
inhabitants of the city; and much more than that amount was
necessary to supply free water under the contract ; and a solemn covenant to supply a growing city with sufficient water
for domestic and municipal purposes for thirty years from a
flow of ten inches under a four-inch pressure would have been
absurd. The company, immediately after the date of the contract, commenced to use an amount of water greatly in excess
of ten inches under a four-inch pressure; soon after the execu-

LOS ANGELES v. LOS ANGELES CITY WATER CO. 583
Opinion of the Court.

tion of the contract the company was using three hundred
inches under a four-inch pressure, and from that to the present
time they have been using, with the knowledge and consent of
the city, from three hundred to seven hundred inches so measured. Therefore, whatever (if anything) was meant by the
simple words 'ten inches,' the contract was immediately, and
has been continuously, construed by the action of the parties as
nieaning more than ten inches measured under a four-inch pressure. There is no pretence that the city ever objected to the
use bf this water by the water company until 1896, when an
ordinance was passed by the city government undertaking to
withdraw the city's consent to- the taking of more than ten
inches from the river. It is difficult to imagine how this ordinance was passed seriously; for if the water company had been
prevented from taking from the river at that time more than
ten inches of water under a four-inch pressure, there certainly
would have been a water famine in the city, for the city had no
works of its own and no means whatever for supplying water
for either domestic or municipal purposes. But the city, having allowed the water company, for nearly thirty years, to divert the quantity of water above mentioned, and to expend vast
sums of money upon the faith of a continuance of the right to
take said water, could not withdraw its consent within the
period of the contract."
The learned justice then quoted and approved the following
remarks of the Circuit Court in the case at bar:
- ' If it be conceded, as claimed by defendants, (which, however, I do not decide,) that the provision of the contract, limiting the quantity of the water to be taken from the river without
previous consent of the city, is sufficiently certain for enforcement, or, more specially, that said quantity is ten inches measured under a four-inch pressure, still the consent of the city to
the taking of a larger quantity, once given, cannot be withdrawn
during the life of the contract, for the reason that large expenditures have been made by complainants in reliance upon such
consent.' The court cites as authorities to the point: Rhodes
v. Otis, 33 Ala. 600; 73 Am. Dec. 439; T oodbury v. Parsiley, 7 N. H. 237; 26 Am. Dec. 739; Lacy v. Arnett, 33 Pa. St.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

169 ; Piussell v. Hubbard, 159 Ill. 339 ; Beall v. Marietta &c.
Mill Co., 45 Ga. 33; Veghte v. Raritan Water Power Co., 19
N. J. Eq. 153; Wilmington dc. 1R. R. Co. v. Battle, 66 N. C.
4;
546; Flickinger v. Shaw, 87 Cal. 126; 22 Am. St. Rep.
Grimshaw v. Belcher, 88 Cal. 217; 22 Am. St. Rep. 298; Sm ith
v. Green, 109 Cal. 228, all of which sustain the point."
Decree affir~med.

ERB v. MORASCIt
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 249. Submitted April 18,1900. - Decided May 14, 1900.

All questions arising under the constitution and laws of Kansas are, for
the purposes of this case, foreclosed by the decisions of the state courts.
It is the duty of a receiver appointed by a Federal court to take charge of
a railroad, to operate it according to the laws of the State in which it is
situated, and he is liable to suit in a court other than that by which he
was appointed, even in a state court, for a disregard of official duty which
causes injury to the pary suing.
A city, when authorized by the legislature, may regulate the speed of trains
within its limits, and this extends to interstate trains in the absence of
congressional action on the subject.
The Interstate Transit Railway is a railway connecting Kansas City, Alissouri, with Kansas City, Kansas, and the exception of its trains from the
general provision in the city ordinance respecting the speed of trains in
the city was an exception entirely within the power of the legislature to
make.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Jlr.B. P. Waggener and Yr'. Albert II. Horton, for plaintiff

inerror.
,Ir. George B. Watson for defendants in error.
MR.

JUSTICE

BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.

While in their briefs many matters are discussed with full-

