CARMICHAEL v. EBERLE.
Opinion of the Court.

CARMICHAEL v. EBERLE.
ERROR TO AND APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY
OF NEW MEXICO.
No. 166. Submitted March 5, 1900. -Decided March 26, 1900.

In the light of the various orders of the court below, this court holds that
a rehearing was not granted in this case, but that the motion for rehear-

ing was permitted to be argued, and as that was heard before four of the
judges of the court, and there was an equal division, it was denied; and,
as the judgment of reversal was not a final judgment, the appeal must be
dismissed.

THE statement of the case is in the opinion of the court.

1r. William' B. COilders for plaintiffs in error and appellants.
.211. I' B. Catron for defendant in error and appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE EULLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action in ejectment brought in the district court
for the county of Socorro, in the Territory of New Mexico,
which resulted in judgment against one of the defendants and
in favor of the other defendants, whereupon Eberle, plaintiff
below, carried the case on writ of error to the Supreme Court
of the Territory.
At the July term, 1895, of that court, and on October 16, the
following judgment was entered: "This cause having been argued by counsel and submitted to and taken under advisement
by the court upon a former day of the present term, the court,
being now sufficiently advised in the premises, announces its
decision by Associate Justice Collier, Chief Justice Smith concurring, Associate Justice Laughlin dissenting, reversing the
judgment of the court below, for reasons stated in the opinion
of the court on file. It is therefore considered and adjudged by

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

the court that the judgment in this cause of the district court
in and for the county of Socorro, whence this cause came into
this court, be, and the same hereby is, reversed, and that this
cause be, and the same hereby is, remanded to said district court,
with directions to grant a new trial thereof. It is further considered and adjudged by the court that the said plaintiff in error
do have and recover of said defendants in error his costs in this
behalf expended, as vell in the court felow as in this court
expended, to be taxed, and that execution issue therefor."
December 17, 1895, defendants in error filed a motion for
rehearing, pending which the court adjourned to court in course.
At July term, 1896, and on August 11, this order was entered:
"This cause coming on for hearing upon the motion of said
defendants in error, heretofore filed herein, for a rehearing of
.said cause, the same is argued by H. L. Pickett, Esq., attorney
for said defendants in error, and by T. B. Catron, Esq., attorney
for said plaintiff in error, and submitted to the court, and the
court not being sufficiently advised in the premises, takes the
same under advisement."
December 18, 1896, judgment was rendered as follows:
"This cause having been argued by counsel and submitted to
and taken under advisement by the court on a former day of
the present term, upon the motion of the said defendants in
error for a rehearing of said cause granted herein at a former
term, the court, being now sufficiently advised in the premises,
announces its decision by Associate Justice Collier, Chief Justice
Smith concurring, Associate Justices Laughlin and Bantz dissenting, reversing the judgment of the court below, and remanding said cause for a new trial for reasons stated in the
opinion of the court on file herein. It is therefore considered
and adjudged by the court that the judgment of the district
court in this cause in and for the county of Socorro, whence
this cause came into this court, be and the same is hereby reversed, and that this cause be and the same is hereby remanded
to said district court, with directions to grant a new trial
thereof. It is further considered and adjudged that said plaintiff in error do have and recover of said defendants in error his
costs in this behalf expended, as well in the court below as. in

CARMICHAEL v. EBERLE.
Opinion of the Court.

this court expended, to be taxed, and that execution issue
therefor."
On the first day of February, 1897, the following motion was
filed: ".Now come the defendants in error in the above entitled
cause and move the court to set aside the entry heretofore made
in said cause on the 11th day of August; 1896, as the same appears upon page 388 of the records of said court in Record B,
page 388, and to enter nicpro tune in place of said entry an
order granting to the appellees in said cause a rehearing, and
also that the court set aside the judgment of reversal in said
cause on the 18th day of December, 1896, as the same appears
upon page 464 of Record B of the minutes and records of said
court, and enter in lieu thereof an order affirming the judgment
of the court below, and for grounds of said motion the said appellees show to the court that a rehearing was granted in said
cause, and said cause re-argued and taken under advisement by
the court and afterwards decided by a divided court, two of the
members sitting in said cause being in favor of reversal and
two in favor of affirmation, which entry in legal effect results
in the affirmation of the judgment of the court below."
This motion was overruled March 1, 1897, in these terms:
"This cause having been submitted on motion to amend the
record and make an entry nunopro tune granting the defendants in error a rehearing on a former day of this term, the
court announces its decision by Chief Justice Smith, the associate justices concurring, denying said motion. It is therefore
considered and adjudged by the court that the motion to amend
the record and to make an entry nuno pro tune be, and the
same hereby is, denied." Thereupon the case was brought to
this court on writ of error and also on appeal.
The contention of plaintiff in error is that a rehearing was
granted, and that, as the court was equally divided on such
alleged rehearing, the judgment of the district court was affirmed. We are of opinion, however, that, in the light of
the various orders of the Supreme Court, although that of
December 18 was somewhat obscurely worded, a rehearing
was not granted, but that the motion for rehearing was permitted to be argued, and as that was heard before four of the
VOL. CLXXVII-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Syllabus.

judges of the court and there was an equal division, it was denied. Had this been otherwise, the court would not have
unanimously overruled the motion to amend the record so as
to make it appear that a rehearing had actually been granted.
Moreover counsel agree that under the rules of the court a
rehearing could not be granted unless one of the justices who
concurred in the judgment so desired, and a majority of the
court so determined, and that this was also true of permission
to argue such application. It is evident that oral argument
was allowed, and it also appears that no justice who concurred
in the judgment desired a rehearing, and that a majority of the
court did not determine to grant it.
The judgment of reversal therefore stood, and
As it was not a final judgment, the writ of error and the appeal must be dismi.sed, and it is so ordered.

HOUSTON AND TEXAS CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY v. TEXAS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS FOR TIIE TtIRD SUPREME
JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.

No. 81. Argued December 13, 14, 15, 1899.-Decided March 26, 1900.
The Federal character of a suit must appear in the plaintiff's own statement
of his claim, and where a defence has been interposed, the reply to which
brings out matters of a Federal nature, those matters thus brought out
by the plaintiff do not form a part of his cause of action.
The treasury warrants in question in this case cannot be said upon the evidence to have violated the Constitution of the United States, or of the
State of Texas.
A warrant, drawn by the authorities of a State in payment of an appropriation made by the legislature, payable upon presentation if there be funds
in the treasury, and issued to an individual in payment of :a debt of the
State to him, cannot be properly called a bill of credit, or a treasury warrant intended to circulate as money.
A deliberate intention on the part of a legislative body to violate the organic law of the State under which it exists, and to which the members
have sworn obedience, is not to be lightly indulged; and it cannot prop.

