CREDITS COMMUTATION CO. v. UNITED STATES. 311
Statement of the Case.

CREDITS COMMUTATION COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
SAME v. DEXTER.
SAME v. AMES.
NOS. 233, 234, 235. Submitted February 26, 1900. - Decided April 9, 1900.

When leave to intervene in an equity case is asked and refused, the order
denying leave is not regarded as a final determination of the merits of the
claim on which the intervention is based, but leaves the petitioner at full
liberty to assert his rights in any other appropriate form of proceeding.
The action of the court below, in denying the petitions to intervene, was
an exercise of purely discretionary power, and was not final in its character.
ON October 9, 1893, Oliver Ames, 2d, and Samuel Carr, executors of Frederick L. Ames, deceased, and Peter B. Wyckoff
and Edwin F. Atkins filed in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eighth Circuit a bill of complaint against the
Union Pacific Railway Company and a number of other companies in which the Union Pacific Railway Company had interests, praying for the appointment of receivers, the enforcement
of certain alleged liens, and the administration of the properties
of the Union Pacific Railway Company. On October 13, 1893,
S. H. H. Clark, Oliver W. Mink and Ellery Anderson were appointed receivers, and on November 13, 1893, upon petition of
the Attorney General of the United States, John W. Doane and
Frederick R. Coudert were appointed additional receivers.
On January 21, 1895, a bill of complaint was filed in the said
Circuit Court by F. Gordon Dexter and Oliver Ames, 2d, as
trustees of the first mortgage of the Union Pacific Railway Company, to foreclose that mortgage.
At the May term, 1897, the United States filed, in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eighth Judicial Circuit, a bill
of complaint against the Union Pacific Railway Company, and
against S. H. H. Clark, Oliver W. Mink, Ellery Anderson, John
W. Doane and Frederick R. Coudert, who had theretofore, on
October 13, 1893, in the suit brought in said court by Oliver
Ames, Samuel Carr and others against the said Union Pacific

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

Railway Company, been appointed receivers therefor, and
against F. Gordon Dexter and Oliver Ames, as trustees, the
Union Trust Company of New York, as trustee, J. Pierpont
Morgan and Edwin F. Atkins, trustees, the Central Trust Company of New York, as trustee. The object of this bill was to
secure a decree of foreclosure of the subsidy lien of the United
States upon the property of the Union Pacific Railway Company between Council Bluffs, Iowa, and a point five miles west
of Ogden, Utah.
On April 28, 1897, the Credits Commutation Company, a
corporation of the State of Iowa, filed a petition in each of
said three cases, praying for leave to intervene therein as a
party, and to be heard to assert certain alleged rights and interests. On May 22, 1897, the Combination Bridge Company,
a corporation of the State of Iowa, also filed petitions in said
cases for leave to intervene therein for the same reasons set
forth at length in the petitions of the Credits Commutation
Company. On May 24, 1897, after hearing the counsel of the
respective parties, an order was entered by the Circuit Court
denying the prayers for leave to intervene, and on the same
day an appeal was allowed to the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Eighth Circuit. On December 7, 1898, motions by the
appellees to dismiss said appeals were sustained, and said appeals were accordingly dismissed; and thereupon the appellants in open court prayed an appeal to this court, which was
allowed. Credits Commutation Co.pnjany v. Ames' _Ewecutors,
62 U. S. App. 728. Motion to dismiss or affirm was submitted.
Xr. John F. -Dillon, Xr. W. R. Kelly and .Xr. G. X. Lambertson,for the motion.
The Attorney General and Yr. John C. Cowin filed a brief
in support of the motion.
Mr. Henry J. Taylor and 3fr. John C. Coombs opposing.
M . JusTIcE SHiRAs

delivered the opinion of the court.

The Credits Commutation Company and the Combination

CREDITS COMMUTATION CO. v. UNITED STATES. 313
Opinion of the Court.

Bridge Company, corporations of the State of Iowa, filed petitions for leave to intervene in three suits against the Union
Pacific Railway Company. The object of those suits was to
enforce by foreclosure the payment of bonds secured by mortgage and of a debt due to the United States created by certain
subsidy bonds, and, pending such proceedings, the appointment
of receivers to prevent the disintegration of properties of the
railway company.
The Combination Bridge Company is the owner of a bridge
across the Missouri River at Sioux City. The Credits Commutation Company is the owner of the stock of the bridge company, and also of interests in the capital stock of certain
railroads connected by the said bridge. The petition alleges
that the Credits Commutation Company was organized for the
purpose of connecting said bridge and railroads with the Union
Pacific Railway.
The Union Pacific Railway Company is a consolidated company,. composed of the Union Pacific Railroad Company and
the Kansas Pacific Railway Company, and Congress, by the
act of July 1, 1862, in order to "secure to the Government
the use of the same," conferred upon said companies grants of
large and valuable tracts of the public lands, and further subsidized said companies by an advance to them of the public
credit in the form of bonds of the United States. The fifteenth section of the said act of July 1, 1862, was in the following terms:
"And be it further enacted, That any other railroad company
now incorporated, or hereafter to be incorporated, shall have
the right to connect their road with the road and branches provided for by this act, at such places and upon such just and
equitable terms as the President of the United States may prescribe. Wherever the word company is used in this act it shall
be construed to embrace the words their associates, successors
and assigns, as if the words had been properly added thereto."
The petition alleges that the Credits Commutation Company
was organized in the latter part of 1894, but admits that said
company has abstained from making any application to the
President of the United States to fix the place at which and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

just and equitable terms upon which said company should build
a railroad to connect with the road of the Union Pacific Railway company, because the latter company had been embarrassed
and all its property was in the hands of receivers, and bills to
foreclose in behalf of the holders of mortgage bonds and to enforce the creditor rights of the United States had been filed.
It seems to be the theory of the petitioners that, under the provisions of the act of Congress, they have a right to connect their
railroads, now or to be constructed, with the railroad of the Union
Pacific Railway Company, and that they have, therefore, a right
to intervene in the foreclosure proceedings, in order to protect
their right to so connect and to protect the right of the public
in such railroad connections.
As heretofore stated, the Circuit Court denied the petitions
for leave to intervene, and upon appeal to the Circuit Court of
Appeals that court dismissed the appeals. The view of the Circuit Court of Appeals was that the order of the Circuit Court
refusing leave to intervene was not a final judgment br decree from which an appeal could be taken, and that, at any rate,
the action of the lower court in refusing leave to intervene was
not reviewable on appeal, inasmuch as it rested in the sound
discretion of the chancellor to admit or reject the intervention.
62 U. S. App. 728, 732.
To show that the Circuit Court, in denying the petition for
leave to intervene, was not exercising the usual discretion of a
chancellor in passing upon a petition of an outside party for
leave to intervene, but adjudicated the petitioners' rights asserted in the petitions, as if upon demurrer thereto, we are
pointed to the language used: "Ordered, that the prayers of
the petitioners for leave to intervene herein be and the same
are hereby denied, not as matter of discretion, but because said
petitions do not state facts sufficient to show that the petitioners,
or-either of them, have a legal right to intervene."
It is urged that the Circuit Court declined to treat the subject as of one of discretion, and elected to determine the legal
rights of the petitioners, so as to preclude them from resorting
thereafter to some other tribunal, and that, therefore, its judgment was a final one and properly reviewable on appeal.

CREDITS COMMUTATION CO. v.UNITED STATES. 315
Opinion of the Court.

We cannot accept this view of the meaning and effect of the
order in question. What was sought in the petitions was leave
to intervene in a pending and undetermined cause, and that right
alone was determined. The very terms used by the court, that
the facts stated were "not sufficient to show that the petitioners, or either of them, have a legal right to intervene," shows
that what was considered was the right to intervene. That
right refused, the petitioners were left free to assert such other
rights as they might possess in any other tribunal. That this
was the view of Judge Sanborn himself is seen in the following
language of his opinion:
"Whatever the petitioner's right or interest may be, it is nothing more than a contingent, speculative future possibility.. It
is contingent, because it is conditioned upon the construction of
a railroad. It is speculative, because it depends for its existence
upon the question whether or not capitalists shall see sufficient
profit in the construction of such a railroad to induce them to
put in the necessary money for that purpose. It is future, because it has not yet come into existence, and it is possible because
it may come into existence. Courts of equity are not accustomed, perhaps they have not the power, to adjudicate upon
possible rights which are not in being and which are merely
susceptible of coming into being at some unlimited time in the
future."
The question was well considered by the Circuit Court of
Appeals, and we quote and adopt its statement, as follows:
"When such an action is taken, that is to say, when leave to
intervene in an equity case is asked and refused, the rule, so far
as we are aware, is well settled that the order thus made denying leave to intervene is not regarded as a final determination
of the merits of the claim on which the intervention is based,
but leaves the petitioner at full liberty to assert his rights in
any other appropriate form of .proceeding. Such an order not
only lacks the finality whi~h is necessary to support an appeal,
but it is usually said of it that it cannot be reviewed, because
it merely involves an exercise of the discretionary powers of the
trial court. . . . It is doubtless true that cases may arise

where the denial of a third party to intervene therein would be

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

a practical denial of certain relief to which the intervenor is
fairly entitled, and which he can only obtain by an intervention.
Cases of this sort are those where there is a fund in court undergoing administration to which a third party asserts some
right which will be lost in the event that he is not allowed to
intervene before the fund is dissipated. In such cases an order
denying leave to intervene is not discretionary with the chancellor, and will generally furnish the basis for an appeal, since
it finally disposes of the intervenor's claim by denying him all
right to relief. The cases at bar, however, are not of that character. The petitioners were under no obligation to intervene
in the litigation against the Union Pacific Railway Company to
preserve their alleged right to form a junction with the road of
that company when they should have completed their own road
to a suitable junction point. The question which they sought
to litigate in the pending litigation, could, we think, with more
propriety and with less difficulty, have been litigated by an independent bill after they had completed, or were about completing, their line to a suitable junction point. Prior to that time
the questions which they sought to raise by means of the intervening petitions were speculative questions, which the lower
court, as we think, very properly, refused to consider or determine."
In Connor v. Peugh, 18 How. 394, it was said by Mr. Justice
Grier, giving the opinion of the court:
"On the 5th of June, 1855, the tenant in possession came into
court for the first time, and moved to set aside the judgment
and execution issued thereon, and to be allowed to defend the
suit for reasons set forth in her affidavit. The court refused to
grant this motion, 'whereupon the said Mary Ann Connor
prayed an appeal.'
"The tenant in possession having neglected to appear and
have herself made defendant and confess lease, entry and ouster
the judgment was properly entered against the casual ejector.
No one but a party to the suit can bring a writ of error. The
tenant having neglected to have herself made such, cannot have
a writ of error to the judgment against the casual ejector. The
motion made afterwards to have the judgment set aside and for

CREDITS COMMUTATION CO. v. UNITED STATES. 317
Opinion of the Court.

leave to intervene was an application to the sound discretion of
the court. To the action of the court on such a motion no
appeal lies, nor is the subject of a bill of exceptions or a writ of
error."
In Ex parte Cutting, 94 U. S. 14, it was held that an appeal
does not lie from an order of the court below, denying a motion
in a pending suit, to permit a person to intervene and become a

party thereto. Guion v. Liverpool, London, &e.,Ins. Co., 109
U. S. 173, is to the same effect.

Whether the contention of the petitioners that, under the
legislation of Congress, they and railroad companies similarly
situated had a right to connect with the road of the Union Pacific Railway Company, or shall have such a right with respect
to that road in the hands of purchasers under the decree of foreclosure, at such places'and upon such just and equitable terms
as the President of the United States may prescribe, were not
questions that, under the pleadings and evidence, were before
the Circuit Court for its determination; and as its action, in
denying the petitions to intervene, was an exercise of purely
discretionary power, and not final in its character as respects
such alleged right to connect, we think the Circuit Court of
Appeals was right in holding that the appeals could not be
entertained by that court, and its decree, dismissing the same,
is accordingly
Afirmed.
MR.JUsTICE McKENx took no part in the decision of the cases.

