BRYAR v. CAMPBELL.
Statement of the Case.

BRYAR v. CAMPBELL.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 227. Argued April 12, 1900. - Decided May 14, 1900.

Plaintiff's intestate, a married woman, filed a bill in the District Court of
the United States against her husband's assignee in bankruptcy and the
purchaser of a lot of land at the assignee's sale, setting forth her equitable claim to the property, and praying that the purchaser be required to
convey to her. A decree was entered in her favor and an appeal taken
to the Circuit Court by Campbell, the purchaser. Plaintiff did not press
the appeal, but began a new action in ejectment in a state court against
the defendant, Campbell, who set up a new title in himself and recovered
a judgment. Thereupon, and sixteen years after the decree in her favor
in the District Court, plaintiff moved to dismiss the appeal to the Circuit
Court. This motion was denied. Thereupon she set up the decree in her
favor, although it had not been pleaded by either party in the state court.
Held:
(1) That the plaintiff having abandoned her suit in the District Court,
it was too late to move to dismiss the appeal;
(2) That the decree not having been pleaded in the state court could not
now be resuscitated;
(3) That the judgment of the state court was res adjudicataof all the
issues between the parties, and that the decrees of the Circuit
Court and Circuit Court of Appeals reversing the decree of the
District Court and dismissing plaintiff's bill should be affirmed.

THIS was a suit in equity instituted in the District Court for
the Western District of Pennsylvania, April 30, 1877, by Jane
Bryar against James Bryar, her husband, and Robert Arthurs,
his assignee in bankruptcy, to enjoin the latter from partitioning
or offering for sale an undivided half of seven acres of land in
the city of Pittsburgh, for which, as she alleged, a conveyance
had been made by mistake to her husband, though she had paid
the purchase money with her own individual funds. Notwithstanding the pendency of this bill the assignee proceeded to
sell the land at assignee's sale to the defendant Thomas Campbell, subject to the two mortgages hereinafter mentioned. On
August 15, 1878, Campbell was permitted to intervene and de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

fend the'bill, the bill being amended by a new prayer that the
defendants make, execute and deliver to the plaintiff a deed for
the property in question.
The case was heard upon pleadings and proofs, and on June 26,
1879, a decree was rendered in favor of the plaintiff, declaring
her to be the equitable owner of the land in suit; that defendant Campbell was chargeable with notice of her rights, and
was bound to convey according to the prayer of the bill. An
appeal was immediately taken by Arthurs and Campbell to the
Circuit Court, where the case was docketed August 30, 1879.
Here the case rested, without further action, for sixteen years,
and until December 20, 1895.
Meantime, however, and in February, 1880, Jane Bryar and
her husband in her right, began an action of ejectment in the
Court of Common Pleas of Allegheny County against Thomas
Campbell, John W. Beckett and William B. Rodgers, for the
land in controversy, which resulted, May 19, 1881, in a verdict
for the defendants, and a writ of error from the Supreme Court
of Pennsylvania, which, on November 14, 1881, affirmed the
judgment of the Court of Common Pleas. 30 Pitts. Legal
Jour. 12.
Nothing further appears to have been done until December 30,
1895, when Mrs. Bryar moved the Circuit Court for the Western
District of Pennsylvania for an order declaring the appeal of
Thomas Campbell from the decree of the District Court, deserted, upon the ground that the appellants had failed to bring
up the record from the Disttict Court, to pay the entry costs,
or to prosecute their appeal to the next term of the Circuit
Court. Campbell filed an answer to this motion, setting up his
purchase of the land at assignee's sale, and stating that he had
not prosecuted his appeal because he had purchased a mortgage
made by James Bryar to Edward R. James, upon which mortgage the property had been sold. to his attorney, William B.
.Rodgers, who had conveyed to him; that he went into possession
of the land; that the petitioner and her husband had brought
the actioh of ejectment against him above referred to, and a
verdict had been rendered in favor of the defendants; that he
believed the result of the ejectment case made it unnecessary

BRYAR i. CAMPBELL.
Opinion of the Court.

for any further proceedings upon the appeal, and that he and
his vendees had ever since been in undisputed possession of the
land. The motion to dismiss the bill, or rather to declare the
appeal deserted, was denied, and the death of the plaintiff Jane
Bryar being suggested, it was ordered that her heirs at law,
the appellants, be substituted as plaintiffs.
The appeal subsequently went to a hearing in the Circuit
Court upon the former testimony, and new testimony put in by
Campbell in support of his answer, and resulted in a reversal
of the District Court, and a dismissal of the bill. Plaintiffs
appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals, which affirmed the
decree of the Circuit Court, 62 U. S. App. 435, whereupon
plaintiffs appealed to this court.

Mr. Edward Campbell and XTr. Lowrie .Barton for appellants.
.lb. 1K B. Rodgers for appellee.
MR.JUSTICE BROWN,after making the above statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

Plaintiffs ask for a reversal of this decree upon the grounds,
first, that the appeal from the District Court to the Circuit
Court in bankruptcy was not claimed and notice given to the
clerk of the District Court within the time prescribed by the
rules; and, second, because it affirmed the decree of the Circuit
Court upon its merits.
1. If there be anything in the defence that the appeal from
the District Court to the Circuit Court in the bankruptcy proceedings was not taken within the time prescribed by law, it
comes too late. It is true that Rev. Stat. sec. 4981, declares
that "no appeal shall be allowed in any case from the District
to the Circuit Court, unless it is claimed, and notice given
thereof to the clerk of the District Court, to be entered with
the record of the proceedings, and also to the assignee or creditor, as the case may be, or to the defeated party in equity,
within ten days after the entry of the decree or decision ap-

OCTOBER TERM. 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

pealed from.", It appears that the decree of the District Court
was entered June 26, 1879, and that a petition for an appeal
was addressed to the judge of the Circuit Court, the jurat to
which was dated June 28, and on June 30 a bond for costs on
appeal was filed. The appeal, however, to the Circuit Court
was not allowed and filed until July 16, twenty days after the
decree of the District Court, and it does not appear that any
notice was given to the clerk of the District Court, or to the
defeated party, as required by section 4981; but it further appears that the petition for appeal, the allowance thereof, a copy
of the docket entries and a bond for costs were filed in the Circuit Court, August 30, 1879. Here the matter rested until
December 20, 1895, when Mrs. Bryar, the prevailing party,
moved the Circuit Court, not to dismiss the appeal for the reason that it was not taken in time, but, stating that it had been
"duly allowed," to obtain an order declaring it .deserted, for
the reason that the appellants had failed to bring up the record
from the District Court, pay the entry costs or prosdcute their
appeal. This was apparently treated as a motion to dismiss,
and was denied. After a lapse of sixteen years it is now too
late to ask this court to hold that the appeal should have been
dismissed for a reason'which does not seem to have been called
to the attention of the Circuit Court, when the original motion
was made to declare the appeal deserted. If the plaintiffs in
that case had intended to insist upon their rights under the
decree, they should either have moved to dismiss the appeal
within a reasonable time, or pressed it to a hearing in the Circuit Court, instead of abandoning it and bringing a new suit
upon the same cause of action in the state court.
2. The case upon the merits depends upon the effect to be
given to the judgment in favor of Campbell in the ejectment
suit brought by Mrs. Bryar in the state court. Mrs. Bryar appears, for some unexplained reason, to have, abandoned her original suit in the District Court, notwithstanding the decree in
her favor, and to have elected to begin an action in ejectment
in the state court. To this action Campbell appears to have
set up a new defence, which had accrued since the decree in
the District Court, arising upon two mortgages executed in

BRYAR v. CAMPBELL.
Opinion of the Court.

1874 by James Bryar, namely, one to Thomas McClintock for
$3000, the other to E. R. James for $2000, which mortgages
were, in 1878, foreclosed and judgment entered. In the opinion of the Supreme Court of the State it is stated that William R. Rodgers, one of the defendants in the ejectment action,
as the attorney for Campbell, purchased the judgments obtained
upon the mortgages, issued execution, sold the seven acres at
sheriff's sale, and bought the same for $50. A deed was made
by the sheriff to Rodgers, who gave a memorandum to Campbell, stating that he would convey to any one Campbell might
wish, when requested so to do. It was not disputed that Rodgers
bought and held in trust for Campbell whatever title he obtained by the sheriff's deed.
Upon this state of facts the court held that the mortgages
were valid liens, and the fact that the mortgagees were entirely
unaffected by any notice of the secret equity of Mrs. Bryar
being undisputed, it necessarily followed that, whether Campbell had notice or not, he stood in their shoes when he purchased the title derived from them. "It is contended, however,
that Campbell having bought at the assignee's sale, subject to
these mortgages, was bound to pay them off, and when he did
so they were extinguished. But unless he expressly or by necessary implication agreed to pay them, he was not bound to do
so, and had an undoubted right to secure his own title by purchasing them and proceeding to perfect his title under them."
It will be seen from this that Campbell did not rely upon his
purchase at the assignee's sale, as to which the District Court
seems to have held that he had notice of Mrs. Bryar's equity in
the premises, but upon the purchase of the rights of the'mortgagees, who appear to have taken the mortgages, supposing
the property to belong to James Bryar, in whose name it
stood upon the record.
We are advised of- no substantial reason why the judgment
of the state court does not operate as res judicaa in this case.
The original suit in the District Court was begun by Mrs. Bryar,
one of the original plaintiffs in the ejectment suit, for the purpose of compelling the defendant Thomas Campbell to convey
to her as the equitable owner thereof the premises now in dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

pute. The ejectment suit was begun by her and her husband,
in her right, upon the same title against three defendants, one
of whom was Campbell, to obtain possession of the same property. The action was brought by Mrs. Bryar upon her equitable
title, a procedure allowable in the courts of Pennsylvania, where
an equitable ejectment is the full equivalent of and substitute for
a bill in equity. Peterman v. Ihaling, 31 Penn. St. 432; hinpenny v. Winpenny, 92 Penn. St. 440. Such procedure, though
not authorized by the practice of the Federal courts, will be
respected when the question arises upon the effect to be given
the judgment. Jiles v. Duryee, 7 Cranch, 481; illiles v. Caldwell, 2 Wall. 36 Faber v. Iovey, 117 Mass. 107. While it
appears from the opinion of the Supreme Court of the State
that the decree of the District Court was called to its attention,
it was not set up as a bar to the ejectment in the state court for
the obvious reason that Mrs. Bryar had abandoned it by bringing suit in the state court, and there was no object in pleading it, while Campbell did not plead it because it was adverse
to him. It would seem, too, that under the practice in Pennsylvania a decree cannot be used as res judicata pending an
appeal to a higher court. Souter v. Baymore, 7 Penn. St.
415. He could not even plead the pendency of the former suit.
s it,v. Lathrop, 44 Penn. St. 326; Stanton v. Evibrey, 93
U. S.548, 554.
It is now contended that the existence of this prior decree
ousted the jurisdiction of the state court. Indeed the only
object of Mrs. Bryar in endeavoring to have the appeal dismissed seems to have been to reinstate the original decree in
her favor more effectually, and to insist that it was a final disposition of the matters in controversy between herself and Campbell. The question is whether, having abandoned the original
decree for a new action in the state court in which she was
defeated, her heirs can now claim that the original decree in
the District Court, though not set up as a bar by either part ,
and notwithstanding the appeal, can be resuscitated after a
lapse of sixteen years for the purpose of defeating the action of
the state court. To state this proposition is to answer it. The
state court was at liberty to proceed to dispose of the case upon

THE CARLOS F. ROSES.
Syllabus.

the issues made by the parties, and as neither party saw fit to
set up the former decree as a bar to the action, the state court
was not bound to notice it. It did not affect in any way the
jurisdiction of that court. In addition to this, however, Campbell relied upon a wholly different defence from that set up by
him in the former suit, and one which had accrued to him after
the decree in that court was rendered. Whether the decree, if
properly pleaded, would have operated as a bar it is unnecessary
to determine. As the same issues are presented here as were
presented in the state court, it is entirely clear that they cannot
be relitigated.
The judgment of the state court was conclusive upon these
issues, and the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals to that
effect was correct, and it is
Affirmed.

THE CARLOS F. ROSES.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
No. 243. Argued January 12, 1900.-Decided May 14, 1900.

The Carlos F. Roses, a Spanish vessel, owned at Barcelona, Spain, sailed
from that port for Montevideo, Uraguay, with a cargo which was discharged there and a cargo of jerked beef and garlic taken on board for
Havana, for which she sailed March 16, 1898. On May 17, while proceeding to Havana, she was captured by a vessel of the United States and
sent to Key West, where she was libelled. A British company doing
business in London, laid claim to the cargo on the ground that they had
advanced money for its purchase to a citizen of Montevideo, and lhad
received bills of lading covering the shipments. The vessel was condemied as enemy's property, but the proceeds of the cargo, which had
been ordered to be sold as perishable property, was ordered to be paid
to the claimants. Ileii,
(1) That as the vessel was an enemy.vessel, the p'esnmption was that
the cargo was enemy's property, and this could only be overcome
by clear and positive evidence to the contrary ;
(2) That on the face of the papers given in evidence, it must be presumed

