OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Syllabus.

for Shoshone County, and by the appellees removed to the Federal court. The matters involved in the two cases were sinilar,
and hence the consolidation. Under these circumstances, and
in view of the conclusion to which we have arrived, the order
will be that
The judgment of the United States Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Ninth Circuit is reversed, and the case remanded to
the Circuit Court, Northern Division, District of Idaho,
with instructions to reverse its decree and enter a decree dismissing Case No. 81, and an orderremanding Case No. 102
to the state court.
MR. JUSTICE MCKCENNA

dissented.

MR. JUSTICE WHITE did not hear the argument and took no
part in the decision of this case.

CLEVELAND, CINCINNATI, CHICAGO AND ST.
LOUIS RAILWAY COMPANY v. ILLINOIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 198. Argued and submitted March 16, 1900. -Decided

April 30, 1900.

A state statute required all regular passenger trains to stop a 'sufficient
length of time at county seats to receive and let off passengers with
safety. It appearing that the defendant company furnished four regular passenger trains per day each way, which were sufficient to accommodate all the local and through business, and that all such trains
stopped at county seats, the act was held to be invalid as applied to an
express train intended only for through passengers from St. Louis to
New York.
While railways are bound to provide primarily and adequately for the accommodation of those to whom they are directly tributary, they have
the legal right, after all these local conditions have been met, to adopt
spedial provisions for through traffic, and legislative interference therewith is an infringement upon the clause of the Constitution which re-

quires that owmeree between the States shall be free and unobstructed.

CLEVELAND &c. RY. CO. v. ILLINOIS.
Statement of the Case.

was a petition for a writ of mandamus filed in the Circuit Court for the county of Montg9mery, by the State's attorney for that county, to compel the defendant railway company,
which for several years past has operated, and is now operating,
a railroad from St. Louis, Missouri, through the county of Montgomery and the city of Iillsboro, the county seat of such county,
to Indianapolis, Indiana, to stop a regular passenger train, designated as the "Knickerbocker Special," at the city of Hillsboro,
a sufficient length of time to receive and let off passengers with
safety.
The petition was based upon section 26, of an act of the General Assembly of Illinois, entitled "An act in relation to fences
and operating railroads," approved March 31, 1874, which-reads
as follows:
"Every railroad corporation shall cause its passenger trains
to stop upon its (their) arrival at each station advertised by such
corporation as a place of receiving and discharging passengers
upon and from such trains, a sufficient length of time to receive
and let off such passengers with safety: Provided, all regular
passenger trains shall stop a sufficient length of time at the
railroad stations of county seats to receive and let off passengers with safety."
The answer of the railroad company averred that the company furnished four regular passenger trains each way a day,
passing through and stopping at Hillsboro, and that they amply
accommodated the travel, and afforded every reasonable facility
to such city; that the Knickerbocker Special was a train especially devoted to carrying interstate transportation between
the city of St. Louis and the city of New York; that the travel
between these cities had grown to such an extent that it had
become necessary to put on a through fast train, which connected with other similar trains on the Lake Shore and NeW
York Central roads, and that it was necessary to put on this
train because the trains theretofore run, none of which had
ever been taken off, could not, by reason of stopping at Hillsboro and other similar stations, make the time necessary for
eastern connections, or carry passengers from St. Louis to New
York within the time which the demands of business and inter,
THIS

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

state traffic required; that the Knickerbocker Special is not a
regular passenger train for carrying passengers from one point
to another in the State of Illinois, such traffic being amply provided for by other trains, and that the Knickerbocker Special
is used exclusively for interstate traffic from and to points without the State of Illinois; that it is not subject to regulation by
the statute of Illinois providing that all trains shall stop at all
county seats, and that to subject it to the statutes of the various
States through which it passes, requiring it to stop at county
seats, would wholly destroy the usefulness of the train, and
would impede and obstruct interstate commerce, and that obedience to the statute in question would require it to abandon
the train.
A demurrer to this answer was sustained, and the defendant
electing to stand upon it as a full defence to the petition, a final
judgment was rendered and a peremptory writ of mandamus
awarded against the defendant. On appeal to the Supreme
Court of the State this judgment was affirmed. Whereupon
the railway company sued out a writ of error from this court.
Mr. John T. Dye for plaintiff in error. _Mr. George F. ffeNulty was on his brief.
ir.
. C. Akin, Mr. C. A. Hill and Mi. B. D. Mlfonroe for
defendant in error, submitted on their brief.
MR. JuSTICE BROWN delivered the opinion of the court.

Few classes of cases have become more common of recent
years than those wherein the police power of the State over the
vehicles of interstate commerce has been drawn in question.
That such power exists and will be enforced, notwithstanding
the constitutional authority of 'Congress to regulate such commerce, is evident from the large number of cases in which we
have sustained the validity of local laws designed to secure the
safety and comfort of passengers, employ~s, persons crossing
railway tracks, and adjacent property owners, as well as other
regulations intended for the public good,

CLEVELAND &c. RY. CO. v. ILLINOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

We have recently applied this doctrine to state laws requiring locomotive engineers to be examined and licensed by the
state authorities, &nith v. Alabama, 124 U. S. 465; requiring
such engineers to be examined from time to time with respect
to their ability to distinguish colors, Nashville &c. Railway
v. Alabama, 128 U. S. 96; requiring telegraph companies to
receive dispatches and to transmit and deliver them with due
diligence, as applied to messages from outside the State, Western Union Tel. Co. v. James, 162 U. S. 650; forbidding the
running of freight trains on Sunday, Ilennington v. Georgia,
163 U. S. 299; requiring railway companies to fix their rates
annually for the transportation of passengers and freight, and
also requiring them to post a printel copy of such rates at all
their stations, Railway Company v. Fuller, 17 Wall. 560; forbidding the consolidation of parallel or competing lines of railway, Louisville & Nashville Railroad v. Kentucky, 161 U. S.
677; regulating the heating of passenger cars, and directing
guards and guard posts to be placed on railroad bridges and trestles and the approaches thereto, V. Y., V. I. &c. Railroad Co.
v. vew York, 165 U. S. 628; providing that no contract shall
exempt any railroad corporation from the liability of a common
carrier or a carrier of passengers, which would have existed if
no contract had been made, Chicago, Milwaukee &c. Railway
v. Solan, 169 U. S. 133; and declaring that when a common
carrier accepts for transportation anything directed to a point
of destination beyond the terminus of his own line or route, he
shall be deemed thereby to assume an obligation for its safe
carriage to such point of destination, unless at the time of such
acceptance such carrier be released or exempted from such liability by contract in writing, signed by the owner or his agent,
Richmond & Allegheny Railroad v. Patterson Tobacco Co.,
169 U. S. 311. In none of these cases was it thought that the
regulations were unreasonable or operated in any just sense as
a restriction upon interstate commerce.
But for the reason that these laws were considered unreasonable and to unnecessarily hamper commerce between the States,
we have felt ourselves constrained in a large number of cases
to express our disapproval of such as provided for taxing di-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

rect]y or indirectly the carrying on or the profits of interstate
commerce. We have also held to be invalid a statute of Louisiana requiring those engaged in interstate cominerce to give
all persons upon public conveyances equal rights and privileges
in all parts of the conveyance, without distinction or discrimination on account of race or color, Hall v. De Cuir, 95 U. S.
485; another regulating the charges of railway companies for
passengers or freight between places in different States, Wabash
St. L-ouis &c.Railway v. Illinois,118 IT.S. 557; another requiring telegraph companies to deliver dispatches by messenger to
the persons to whom the same are addressed, so far as they attempted to regulate the delivery of such dispatches at places
situated in another State, Mestern Union Tel. Co. v. Pendleton,
122 U. S.347; and still another forbidding common carriers
from bringing intoxicating liquors into the State without being
furnished with a certificate that the consignee was authorized
to sell intoxicating liquors in the county, Bowman v. Chicago &
Jforthwestern Railway, 125 U. S.465.
Several acts in pati materia with the one under consideration have been before this court, and have been approved or
disapproved as they have seemed reasonable or unreasonable,
or bore more or less heavily upon the power of railways to
regulate their trains in therespective and sometimes conflicting
interests of local and through traffic. In the earliest of these
cases, Illinois central Railroadv. Illinois, 163 U. S.142, the
very statute o'f Illinois under cQnsideration in this case, as construed and applied by the Supreme Court of that ,State, was
held to be an unreasonable restriction upon interstate traffic, in
requiring a fast mail train from Chicago to places south of the
Ohio River, over an interstate highway established by authority
of Congress, to delay the transportation of its interstate passengers and United States mail, by turning aside from its direct
route and running to a station (Cairo) three and one half miles
away from a point on that route, and back again to the same
point, before proceeding on its way; and to do this for the purpose .of discharging and receiving passengers at that station,
for whom the railroad company furnished other and ample accommodation. Said Mr. Justice Gray: "The State may doubt-

CLEVELAND &c. RY. CO. v. ILLINOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

less compel the railroad company to perform the duty imposed
by its charter of carrying passengers and goods between its
termini within the State. But so long, at least, as that duty
is adequately performed by the company, the State cannot,
under the guise of compelling its performance, interfere with
the performance of paramount duties to which the company
has been subjected by the Constitution and laws of the United
States."
Upon the contrary, in Gladson v. .fXinnesota, 166 U. S. 427,
a state statute requiring every railroad to stop all its regular
passenger trains running wholly within the State at its stations'
in all county seats long enough to take on and discharge passengers with safety, was held to be a reasonable exercise of the
police power of the State, even as applied to a train connecting
with a train of the same company running into another State,
and carrying some .interstate passengers as well as the mail.
The case was distinguished from that of the Illinois Central
Railroad v.' Illinois, in th6 fact that the train in question ran
wholly within the State of Minnesota, and could have stopped
at the county seats without deviating from its course; and that
the statute of Minnesota expressly provided that the act should
not apply to through trains entering the State from any other
State, or to transcontinental trains of any railroad. Speaking
of police regulations for the government of railroads while operating roads within the jurisdiction of the State, it was said that
"they are not in themselves regulations of interstate commerce;
and it is only when they operate as such in the circumstances
of their application and conflict with the express or presumed
will of Congress exerted upon the same subject, that they can
be required to give way to the paramount authority of the Constitution of the United States." The railroad in this case was
treated as a purely domestic corporation, notwithstanding it
connected, as most railroads do, with railroads in other States.
In the most recent case upon this subject, Lake Shore & Mich,
igan Southern Railway v. Ohio, 173 U. S. 285, a statute of Ohio
providing that every railroad company should cause three of its
regular trains carrying passengers, if so many are run daily,
Sundays excepted, to stop at a station, city or village contain-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

ing over three thousand inhabitants, for a time sufficient to receive and let off passengers, was held to be, in the absence of
legislation by Congress upon the subject, consistent with the
Constitution of the United States, when applied to trains engaged in interstate commerce through the State of Ohio. In
delivering the opinion of the court, Mr. Justice Harlan observed:
"The statute does not stand in the way of the railroad company
running as many trains as it may choose between Chicago and
Buffalo without stopping at intermediate points, or only at very
large cities on the route, if in the contingency named in the statute the required number of trains stop at each place containing
three thousand inhabitants long enough to receive and let off
passengers. It seems from the evidence that the average time
required to stop a train and receive and let off passengers is
three minutes. Certainly, the State of Ohio did not endow the
plaintiff in error with the rights of a corporation for the purpose simply of subserving the convenience of passengers traveling through the State between points outside of its territory.
It was for the State to take into consideration all the
circumstances affecting passenger travel within its limits, and as
far as practicable make such regulations as were just to all who
might pass over the rohd in question. It was entitled, of course,
to provide for the convenience of persons desiring to travel from
one point to another in the State on domestic trains. But it
was not bound to ignore the convenience of those who desired
to travel from places in the State to places beyond its limits, or
the convenience of those outside of the State who wished to
come into it. Its statute is in aid of interstate commerce of
that character. It was not compelled to look only to the convenience of those who wished to pass through the State without
stopping." This case is readily distinguishable from the one
under consideration in the fact that the statute of Ohio required
only that three regular passenger trains should stop at every
station containing three thousand inhabitants, leaving the company at liberty to run as many through passenger trains exceeding three per day as it chose, without restriction as to stoppage
at particular stations. In other words, it left open the loophole
which the statute of Illinois has effectually closed.

CLEVELAND &c. RY. CO. v. ILLINOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

The question broadly presented in this case is this: Whether
a state statute is valid which requires every passenger train,
regardless of the number of such trains passing each way daily
and of the character of the traffic carried by them, to stop at
every county seat through which such trains may pass by day or
night, and regardless also of the fact whether another train
designated especially for local traffic may stop at the same station within a few minutes before or after the arrival of the train
in question ?
The demurrer to the answer admits that the railway company
furnishes a sufficient number of regular passenger trains, (four
each way a day,) to accommodate all the local and through
business along the line of the road, and that all of such trains
stop at Hillsboro; that none of such trains have been taken off,
and all of which ran prior to the putting on of the Knickerbocker Special still run and still stop at Hillsboro, and that they
furnish ample and sufficient accommodation to all persons desiring to travel to and from that place; that the Knickerbocker
Special was put on in response to an urgent demand on the part
of the through travelling public from St. Louis to New York
and that it "was necessary, as the 'passenger trains theretofore
used could not, by reason of stopping at way stations, make the
time required for eastern connections, and if compelled to stop
at county seats the company will be compelled to abandon the
train to the great damage of the travelling public and to the
railway company.
It is evident that the power attempted to be exercised under
this statute would operate as a serious restriction upon the speed
of trains engaged in interstate traffic, and might, in some cases,
render it impossible for trunk lines running through the State
of Illinois to compete with other lines running through States
in which no such restrictions were applied. If such passenger
trains may be compelled to stop at county seats it is difficult to
see why the legislature may not compel them to stop at every
station-a requirement which would be practically destructive
of through travel, where there were competing lines unhampered by such regulations. While, as we held in the Lake
Shore case, railways are bound to provide primarily and ade-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

quately for the accommodation of those to whom they are directly tributary, and who not only have granted to them their
franchise but who may have contributed largely to the construetion of the road, they are bound to do no more than this, and may
then provide special facilities for the accommodation of through
traffic. We are not obliged to shut our eyes to the fact that
competition among railways for through passenger traffic has
become very spirited , and we think they have a right to demand that they shall not be unnecessarily hampered in their
efforts to obtain a share of such traffic. It is evident, however,
that neither the greater safety of their tracks, the superior comfort of their coaches or sleeping berths or the excellence of their
tables would insure them sich share, if they were unable to
compete with their rivals in the matter of time.. The great
efforts of modern engineering have been directed to combining
safety with the greatest possible speed in transportation both
by land and water. The public demand this; the railway and
steamship companies are anxious in their own interests to furnish it, and local legislation ought not to stand in the way of it.
With no disposition whatever to vary or qualify the cases
above cited, neither the conclusions of the court nor the tenor
of the opinions are opposed to the principle we hold to in this
case, that, after all local conditions have been adequately met,
railways have the legal right to adopt special provisions for
through traffic, and legislative interference therewith is unreasonable, and an infringement upon that provision of the Constitution which we have held requires that commerce between
the States shall be free and unobstructed.
While the statute in question is operative only in the State of
Illinois, it is obnoxious to the criticism made of the Louisiana
statute in Hall v. DeCuir, 95 U. S." 485, that "while it purports only to control the carrier when- engaged within the
State, it must necessarily influence his conduct, to some extent,
in the management of his business throughout his entire voyage.
If each State was at liberty to regulate the conduct of
carriers while within its jurisdiction, the confusion likely to follow could not but be productive of great inconvenience and
unnecessary hardship. Each State could provide for its own

DE LAMAR'S NEVADA G. M. CO. v.NESBITT.

523

Syllabus.

passengers and regulate the transportation of its own freight
regardless of the interests of others." The distinction between
this statute and regulations requiring passenger trains to stop
at railroad crossings and drawbridges, and to reduce the speed
of trains when running through crowded thoroughfares; requiring its tracks to be fenced, and a bell and whistle to be attached
to each engine, signal lights to be carried at night, and tariff
and time tables to be posted at proper places, and other similar
requirements contributing to the safety, comfort and convenience of their patrons, is too obvious to require discussion.
Railroad Conmmission Cases, 116 U. S. 307, 334.
We are of opinion that the act in question is a direct burden
upon interstate commerce, and the judgment of the Supreme
Court of the State of Illinois must therefore be reversed, and
the case remanded to that court for further proceedings not
inconsistent with this opinion.
IR.

JUSTICE BREWER

and MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS concurring:

We concur in this judgment on the proposition that the act
of the legislature of Illinois whether reasonable or unreasonable,
wise or foolish, is, as applied to the facts of this case, an attempt
by the State to directly regulate interstate commerce, and as
such attempt, is beyond the power of the State.

DE LAMAR'S NEVADA GOLD MINING COMPANY v.
NESBITT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEVADA.
No. 152. Argued March 1,1900.-Decided April 30, 1900.
The fact that in a state court plaintiff and defendant make adverse claims
to a mining location under the mining laws of the United States (Rev.
Stat. ยง 2325), does not of itself present a federal question within the
meaning of Rev. Stat. ยง 709.

