WILLIAMS v. WINGO.
Statement of the Case.

WILLIAMS v. WINGO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF VIRGINIA.
No. 222. Argued April 11, 12, 1900. -Decided

May 14, 1900.

The act of the legislature of Virginia of March 5, 1840, providing that "it
shall not be lawful for the court of any county to grant leave to establish a ferry over any watercourse within one half mile, in a direct line,
of any other ferry legally established over the same watercourse," was
one of general legislation, and subject to repeal by the general assembly, and did not tie the hands of the legislature, or prevent it from authorizing another ferry within a half mile whenever in its judgment it
saw fit.

By the statutes of Virginia authority was given to the county
courts of the several counties to license ferries. By an act
passed March 5, 1840, (Acts Assembly, 1839-1840, p. 58, c. 72,)
carried, with -imply verbal changes, into chap. 64 of the Code
of Virginia of 1873 as sec. 23, and subsequently into chap. 62 of
the Code of 1887 as sec. 1386, it was provided:
"Be it enacted by the General Assembly, That it shall not be
lawful for the court of any county to grant leave to establish
a ferry over any watercourse within one half mile, in a direct
line, of any other ferry legally established over the same watercourse."
In 1880 the county court of Giles County gave to the plaintiff in error a license to maintain a ferry across New River.
On March 5, 1894, the general assembly of Virginia passed the
following act (Acts Assembly, 1893-1894, p. 789, c. 692):
"Be it enacted by the General Assembly of Virginia, That it
shall be lawful for the county court of Giles County to establish
a ferry at a point on New River, in said county, at a point around
Egglestons Springs depot and between Egglestons Springs and
Egglestons depot, on the New River branch of the Norfolk and
Western Railroad, Giles County, Virginia. Said court in establishing said ferry shall be bound by sections thirteen hundred
and seventy-five, thirteen hundred and seventy-six, thirteen hun-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

dred and seventy-seven, thirteen hundred and seventy-eight, thirteen hundred and seventy-nine, thirteen hundred and eighty, thirteen hundred and eighty-one, thirteen hundred and eighty-two,
thirteen hundred and eighty-three, thirteen hundred and eightyfour and thirteen hundred and eighty-five of the Code of Virginia; but section thirteen hundred and eighty-six of said code,
so far as the distance of one half a mile is concerned, shall not
apply to the establishment of said ferry at said place."
Under this act a license was given to the defendant in error
to establish a ferry within less than half a mile of the ferry
established by the plaintiff in error under his prior license.
The rightfulness of this action was sustained by the circuit court
of Giles County, and subsequently by the Supreme Court of
Appeals of the State of Virginia, and to review such decision
this writ of error was brought.
.M. W. J. lenson for plaintiff in error.
.Mhr.Samuel W. Williams for defendant in error.
MR. JTSTIcE BREWER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The contention of the plaintiff in error is that, under the laws
of the State of Virginia in force at the time of such action, the
license granted by the county court to him to establish a ferry
created a contract between him and the State to the effect that
no other ferry should be established within half a mile; and that
the act of 1894 and the subsequent proceedings of the county
court of Giles County impaired the obligation of that contract,
and, therefore, were repugnant to section 10 of article 1 of the
Constitution of the United States.
This is an obvious error. The act of 1840 was one of general
legislation, and subject to repeal by the general assembly. No
rights could be created under that statute beyond its terms, and
by it no restraint was placed upon legislative action. When
the general assembly gave to the county courts power to license
ferries it by that act in effect forbade them to establish a second

WILLIAMS v. WINGO.
Opinion of the Court.

ferry within half a mile of one already established, but that
bound only the bounty court. It did not tie the hands of the
legislature, or prevent it from authorizing another ferry within
a half mile whenever in its judgment it saw fit. A contract
binding the State is only created by clear language, and is not
to be extended by implication beyond the terms of the statute.
.Fanningv. Gregoire, 16 How. 524, is in point and decisive. In
that case the plaintiff was by an act of the Iowa territorial
legislature given authority to establish a ferry across the Mississippi iRiver at the then town of Dubuque, and the act also
provided that no court or board of county commissioners should
authorize any other person to keep a ferry within the limits of
the town. The city of Dubuque was thereafter incorporated,
and under its general corporate powers entered into a contract
with the defendant to run a steam ferryboat across the river.
The plaintiff thereupon filed a bill to restrain the defendant
from so doing. It was held that the bill could not be maintained, this court saying (pp. 533, 534):
"Although the county court and county commissioners were
prohibited from granting another license to Dubuque, yet this
prohibition did not apply to the legislature; and as it had the
power to authorize another ferry, the general authority to the
council to 'license and establish ferries across the Mississippi
River at the city,' enabled the corporation, in the exercise of
its discretion, to grant a license, as the legislature might have
done.

The restriction on the commissioners of the

county does not apply, in terms, to the city council; and the
court think it cannot be made to apply by implication."
This case was cited with approval in Belmont Bridge
Whieeling Bridge, 138 U. S. 287, in which this very statute of
Virginia of 1840 was under consideration, and it was said
(p. 292):
"Here the prohibition of the act of 1840 was only upon the
county courts, and that in no way affected the legislative power
of the State."
The case of The Binghamton Bridge, 3 Wall. 51, is not inconsistent. There an act of the legislature, authorizing the one
bridge, contained a proviso "that it should not be lawful for

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

any person or persons to erect a bridge within a distance of two
miles." That provision was held a part of the contract between
the State and the bridge company, Mr. Justice Davis, speaking
for a majority of the court, saying (p. 81):
"As there was no necessity of laying a restraint on unauthorized persons, it is clear that such a restraint was not within the
meaning of the legislature. The restraint was on the legislature
itself. The plain reading of the provision, ' that it shall not be
lawful for any person or persons to erect a bridge within a distance of two miles,' is, that the legislature will not make it lawful by licensing any person or association of persons to do it."
In the case at bar the only effect of the act of 1840, while in
force, was, as we have said, to tie the hands of the county court.
It operated in no manner as a restraint upon the legislature or
as a contract upon its part that the State would not act whenever in its judgment it perceived the necessity for an additional
ferry. The fact that in this case the special authority was
given to the county court is immaterial. A general act forbidding county courts to license additional ferries is not infringed
by a subsequent act giving special right to a single county court
to establish a particular ferry. No promise made by the legislature by the first act is broken by the second. The judgment
of the Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia was correct, and
it is
Ajflrmed.

