OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

quest and by himself, when its sufficiency is acknowledged by
the other parties.
Being satisfied that the amount in dispute in this case is less
than the amount required by statute to give us jurisdiction, and
without expressing any opinion upon the other ground for the
motion,
1"he 'writ must be dismissed for the want of jurisdiction,and
it is so ordered.

QUACKENBUSH1 v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No.145.

Argued February 1,1900.-Decided March 19, 1900.

The act of February 16, 1897, c. 235, for the relief of Commander Quackenbush enacted "1that the provisions of law regulating appointments in the
Navy by promotion in the line, and limiting the number of commanders
to be appointed in the United States naval service, are hereby suspended
for the purpose of this act only, and only so far as they affect John N.
Quackenbush; and the President of the United States is hereby authorized, in the exercise of his discretion and judgment, to nominate and, by
and with the advice and consent of tile Senate, to appoint said John N.
Quackenbush, late a commander in the Navy'of the United States, to the
same grade and rank of commander in the United States Navy as of the
date of August first, eighteen hundred and eighty-three, and to place him
on the retired list of the Navy, as of the date of June first, eighteen hundred and ninety-five: Provided, That he shall receive no pay or emoluments except from the date of such reappointment." Held,
(1) That its only apparent office was to forbidt the allowance of pay or
emoluments from August 1, 1883, by limiting such allowance to
the date of the reappointment, which, in that view, must be regarded as the date of appointment under the act;
(2) That it was remedial in its character, and should be construed as ratifying prior payments which the Government in its counter-claim
was seeking to recover back.

THIS was an appeal from a judgment of the Court of Claims
dismissing the petition of claimant and the counter-claim of defendants in the above entitled cause. 33 C. Cl. 355. The peti.

QUACKENBUSH v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

tion was filed December 11, 1897, and sought recovery for
amounts alleged to be due from the Government "from the 1st
day of August, 1883, until the first day of June, 1895, at the
rate of $2300 per annum, being the leave or waiting orders pay
as prescribed by law for the grade or rank of commander, and
from the 1st day of June, 1895, to the 26th day of May, 1897,
at the rate of $2625 per annum, being three-quarters of the sea
pay as prescribed by law for the grade'or rank of commander."
The counter-claim avered that claimant was indebted to defendants "by reason of payments illegally made to him during
the period from June 9, 1874, up to and including March 31,
1881, when the claimant was not in the naval service of the
United States."
The facts were in substance as follows: Claimant was duly
and legally commissioned a commander in the Navy of the
United States by and with the advice and consent of the Senate
on the 2d day of January, 1872, to take rank from the 25th day
of May, 1871. Thereafter in the month of February, 1874, certain charges were filed against claimant before the Navy Department, and a court martial was duly organized to try the
same, by which, after hearing, and in that month, claimant was
sentenced to be dismissed from the naval service of the United
States. This sentence was approved by the President, and the
Secretary of the Navy, June 9, 1874, addressed a letter to the
claimant at Boston, Massachusetts, informing him of the sentence, its approval, and that from that day claimant would
"cease to be an officer of the Navy." On June 12, the Secretary
of the Navy addressed a letter to "Commander John N. Quackenbush, U. S. Navy," requesting him to "return to the Departnient the order dismissing you from the Navy." Both these
letters were delivered to claimant on one and the same day, to
wit, on or about June 15, 1874. In obedience to the order of
June 12, claimant returned the letter of dismissal.
December 8, 1874, the Secretary of the Navy officially addressed a letter to claimant, in which, after setting forth the
finding of the court martial and the sentence, the Secretary
said: "This sentence was, on the 9th day of June, 1874, mitigated to suspension from rank and duty on furlough pay for six

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

years, the suspension to date from that day." December 13,
1877, the Secretary of the Navy transmitted to the Attorney
General of the United States a statement of the facts in the
case, embodying the correspondence, and requested his advice
thereon. In answer, the Attorney General, March 16, 1878,
15 Op. Atty. Gen. 463, advised the Secretary that the claimant
remained an officer in the Navy.
In that correspondence the date of the President's approval
of the sentence was given as June 5, 1874, but the Attorney
General held that the letter of the Secretary of December 8,
1874, was satisfactory proof of the mitigation of the sentence
by the President on June 9, and that it was competent for him
to grant commutation on that day.
Section 1363 of the Revised Statutes provided that "there
shall be allowed on the active list of the line officers of the Navy
ninety commanders . .
;" which number was,
by the act of August 5, 1882, 22 Stat. 284, 286, c. 391, reduced
to eighty-five.
June 10, 1874, the President sent to the Senate the name of
W. S. Schley to be commander in the Navy, "vice Quackenbush, dismissed," and the nomination was duly confirmed
June 12, 1874. The records of the Navy Department show that
there were ninety commanders borne on the, active list of the
Navy from the date of the appointment of W. S. Schley to
August 5, 1882, when the number was reduced by law, except
during the early part of the year 1879, when the list was temporarily increased to ninety-one by Congress.
After Schley's appointment, asQuackenbush was still on the
Register, the Secretary of the Navy, when his attention was
called to the matter, directed that no nomination should be
made to the next succeeding vacancy, and this recommendation
was complied with, no appointment being made to the position
subsequently becoming vacant by the retirement of Commodore
Morris.
The Court of Claims found that pursuant to the commuted
sentence and by virtue thereof, claimant was placed under suspension, on furlough pay, and was borne upon the official printed
INavy Register as a commander in the Navy "under suspension,'"

QUACKENBUSH v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

from the year 1874 up to and including the year 1880, when the'
sentence expired, and from and after the date of such expiration
he was borne on said Register as a commander of the Navy on
waiting orders until the publication of the Register for 1883,
when his name was omitted and dropped from the same. "During the whole of said period he retained his proper and legal
place on the official list of commanders in the Navy, and was
advanced in numbers from year to year, as promotions of his
seniors in said grade occurred, in the same manner and in all
respects in the regular course, as other officers in his said grade
and rank were advanced."
He was paid as on furlough for six years, and thereafter, from
June 9, 1880, to March 31, 1881, was taken, by direction, on
the rolls of the paymaster at the Navy Yard at Boston, Massachusetts, and paid as on " waiting orders."
On the thirtieth of March, 1881, the judgment of this court
was announced in Blake v. United States, 103 U. S. 227. It
was there ruled that the President has the power to supersede
and remove an officer of the Army or the Navy by the appointment, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, of his
successor. What direction, if any, was given at the time, in
view of this decision, did not appear; but, at all events, from
March 31, 1881, until May 26, 1897, claimant received no pay,
allowances or emoluments of any kind.
In April, 1882, the views of the Secretary of the Navy were
requested by the chairman of the Committee on Naval Affairs
in the House of Representatives in respect of the propriety of
the passage of a pending bill "to confirm the status of John N.
Quackenbush, a commander in the United States Navy," and the
Secretary responded that it appeared to have been the intention
of the President in exercising clemency in the case of Commander Quackenbush that he should be retained in the service,
and that it seemed just, in view of all the circumstances, that
he should be entitled to the benefit of that clemency.
The following entry appears opposite claimant's name on one
of the records of the Navy Department: "208. John N. Quackenbush left off the register published 1st August, 1883, by direction of the Secretary of the Navy.; his action being based upon
a decision of the Supreme Court."

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

December 6, 1883, the Secretary of the Navy designated to
the President, D. W. Mullan, to be'a commander in the Navy
"vice John N. Quackenbush, no longer in the service ;" and in
that month the President sent to the Senate the nomination of
said Mlullan to be a commander in the Navy from the 3d day of
July, 1882, "vice John N. Quackenbush, no longer in the service." The nomination was duly confirmed and Mullan commissioned.
Claimant filed a petition April 15, 1895, to the Secretary of the
Navy asking that he be restored to his proper position on the
list of naval officers, but the Secretary declined to grant any
relief, holding that the matter of his rights was resjudicata
under the action taken by his predecessor. In May, 1895, claimant exhibited a petition in the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia praying that a writ of mandamus issue to the Secretary of the Navy requiring him to put claimant's name back
on the list of naval officers, which was dismissed February 11,
1896.
Bills for the relief of Commander Quackenbush were introduced in Congress from 1882 to 1897, and many reports made
thereon.
February 16, 1897, an act entitled "An act for the relief of
John N. Quackenbush, late a commander in the United States
Navy," became a law without the approval of the President.
29 Stat. 803, c. 235. This act read as follows:
"That the provisions of law regulating appointments in the
Navy by promotion in the line, and limiting the number of commanders to be appointed in the United States naval service, are
hereby suspended for the purpose of this act only, and only so
far as they affect John N. Quackenbush; and the President of
the United States is hereby authorized, in the exercise of his
discretion and judgment, to nominate and, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, to appoint said John N. Quackenbush, late a commander in the Navy of the United States, to
the same grade and rank of commander in the United States
Navy as of the date of August first, eighteen hundred and
eighty-three, and to place him on the retired list of the Navy,
as of the date of June first, eighteen hundred and ninety-five:

QUACKENBUSH v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Provided, That he shall receive no pay or emoluments except
from the date of such reappointment."
In May, 1897, in accordance with the terms of the act, the
President nominated claimant to the Senate to be a commander
on the retired list of the Navy, and the nomination was confirmed. The claimant took the prescribed oath on May 26,
1897, since which last mentioned date he has been paid threequarters of the sea pay of a commander in the Navy on the
active list. Claimant reached the age of sixty-two on May 31,
1895.
fr. John Paul Jones and Xr.Richard R. Beall for appellant.
.Xr. Assistant Attorney Walker for the United States. Mr.
Assistant Attorney General Pradt was on his brief.
MR.CHIEF JUSTIcE FULLER, after making the above statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

In Blake v. United States, 103 U. S.227, it was held that the
President has power, by and with the advice and consent of the
Senate, to displace an officer in the army or navy by the appointment of another person in his place, and that when that
has been done he cannot again become an officer except upon a
new appointment with like advice and consent. The ruling has
been repeatedly affirmed and followed. Keyes v. United Statos,
109 U. S.336; Jullan v. United States, 140 U. S.240. And
see Parsons v. United States, 167 U. S.324.
When through mistake, or misapprehension, or for any other
reason, injustice has been done, Congress has the power to accord relief, but the courts cannot of their own motion revise the
grounds of action taken in the constitutional exercise of executive power.
Claimant is a commander in the United States Navy on the
retired list by virtue of his appointment and retirement under
the act of February 16, 1897. This suit was brought to recover
pay as on leave or waiting orders from August 1, 1883, to June 1,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

1895, when claimant reached the age of sixty-two years, and pay
as a retired officer from June 1, 1895, to May 26, 1897, when
he took the prescribed oath on his appointment; and if he is
entitled to the amount sued for, it. is by reason of the act and
not otherwise.
The act described claimant in title and context as "late a
commander in the United States Navy;" suspended as to him
the provisions of law regulating appointments in the Navy by
promotion in the line, and limiting the number of commanders
to be appointed in the United States Naval service; "and authorized the President to appoint him to the same grade and rank
ag of the date of August 1, 1883, and to place him on the retired
list as of the date of June 1, 1895.
Congress thereby declared that claimant had been prior to
August 1, 1883, but was not then, a commander, and that, in
order to enable him to be appointed to that grade and rank, it
was necessary to suspend the act of August 5, 1882, which
limited the number of commanders on the active list, and also
forbade promotion or increase of pay in the retired list. 22
Stat. 284, c. 391.
If the act had contained nothing more, the effect of the appointment would have been, in addition to fixing claimant's
status as to grade and rank as of August 1, 1883, to entitle him
to pay from that date, but not to pay prior thereto, as by the
terms of the act he was not a commander until appointed thereunder. The act did not stop there, however, but a proviso was
added which read: "P1rovided, That he shall receive no pay or
emoluments except from the date of such reappointment."
Provisos are commonly used to limit, restrain or otherwise
modify the language of the enacting clause, and that was the
manifest purpose of this proviso. But it was not needed to
limit the effect of the act prior to August 1, 1883, or to enlarge
its effect after that date. Its only apparent office was to forbid
the allowance of pay or emoluments from August 1, 1883, by
linfiting'such allowance to "the date of such reappointment,"
which in that view must be reg'arded as the date of appointnent under the act.
This result is in harmony with the language used. Claimant

QUACKENBUSH v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

had been a commander and had ceased to be such. He was
again appointed, and that second appointment was a reappointment. The date of that reappointment was certainly when it
was actually made, and to substitute the date to which the
appointment related for the actual date would defeat the obvious
object of the proviso, which was to narrow the effect of giving
the reappointment a retroactive operation. It was allowed that
effect as to grade and rank, but not as to current pay or emoluments between August 1, 1883, and the date of the reappointment. This fixed his relative position with reference to other
officers in matters of privilege and precedence, and of command,
if detailed to active service in time of war. At the same time
by referring the appointment to the prior date the retired pay
was sensibly affected. If claimant had been appointed without
any such reference and had been immediately retired, he would
have been entitled to only one-half the sea pay of a commander
under section 1588 of the Revised Statutes, for he would not
have reached the age of sixty-two years while in the service;
but as he was appointed as of August 1, 1883, he was put constructively in the service from that date and so, on being retired,
became entitled to three-quarters of such sea pay; and this he
is receiving.
Something was said in argument in respect of the commission,
which is not set out in the findings, but whatever its terms, the
conclusion remains unaffected. The appointment and the commission are distinct acts, and the terms of the commission cannot
change the effect of the appointment as defined by the statute.
Assuming claimant to have been lawfully out of the service
June, 1874, the Government preferred a counter-claim for the
pay received by him from then to March 31, 1881. But the act of
February 16, 1897, was remedial in its character, and although
we cannot for that reason give to its terms any other than their
obvious meaning, we think it should be construed as ratifying
these prior payments.
Congress had all the facts before it and intended to award
some measure of relief in view of the circumstances. It went
so far and no farther, but it went far enough to enable us to

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

hold that it would be inconsistent with the object of the act to
sustain any recovery back.
In short we agree with the Court of Claims in its conclusions
on both branches of the case.
Judgment aftlrmed.

WATERS-PIERCE OIL COMPANY v. TEXAS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS FOR THE THIRD SUPREME
JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
Xo. 97. Argued January 8, 9, 1900. - Decided March 19, 1900.

It is well settled that a State has the power to impose such conditions as
it pleases upon foreign corporations seeking to do business within it.
The statute of Texas of March 30, 1890, prohibiting foreign corporations,
which violated the provisions of that act, from doing any business within
the State imposed conditions which it was within the power of the State
to impose; and this statute was not repealed by the act of April 30, 1895,
c. 83.

THE Waters-Pierce Oil Company is a private corporation incorporated under the laws of Missouri, and its principal offices
are situated in St. Louis.
It was incorporated to deal in naval stores, and to deal in
and compound petroleum and other oils and their products, and
to buy and sell the same in Missouri and other States. Its capital stock was originally one hundred thousand dollars, but was
subsequently increased to four hundred thousand dollars.
On the 6th day of July, 1889, it filed in the office of the secretary of state of Texas, in accordance with the requirements
of lawi a certified copy of its articles of incorporation, and secured a permit to transact business in the State for the term of
ten years.
By viftue of the permit the company engaged in business in
the State, and while so engaged, it is claimed, violated the statutes of the State against illegal combinations in restraint of

