GUNDLING v. CHICAGO.
Opinion of the Court.

GUNDLING v. CHICAGO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 209. Argued March 22, 1900.-Decided April 9, 1900.

The ordinance of the city of Chicago, authorizing the issue of a license'to
persons to sell cigarettes upon payment of one hundred dollars, and for-

bidding their sale without license, is no violation of the Federal Constitution, and the amount of the tax named for the license is within the
power of the State to fix.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr.Lee D. Zfathias for plaintiff in error.
Aldrich was on his brief.

. Xr. Charles H.

Xr. Frederic D. XcKenney for defendant in error. Xr.
Charles -M. Walker and Mr.Henry Schofeld were on his brief.
MR. JUSTICE PEcKHAM delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error was convicted in a police court of the
city of Chicago of a violation of an ordinance of that city forbidding the sale of cigarettes by any person without a license,
and was fined fifty dollars. From the judgment of conviction
he appealed to the Criminal Court of Cook County, where it
was affirmed, and thence to the Supreme Court of the State,
where it was again affirmed, and he now brings the case here
on writ of error.
Sections 1, 2 and 8 of the ordinance referred to read as follows:
"SEc. 1. The mayor of the city of Chicago shall from time
to time grant licenses authorizing the sale of cigarettes within
the city of Chicago, in the manner following and not otherwise.
"Any person, firm or corporation desiring a license to sell
cigarettes shall make written application for that purpose to

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

the commissioner of health, in which shall be described the
location at which such sales are proposed to be made. Said
application shall be accompanied by evidence that the applicant, if a single individual, all the members of the firm if a copartnership, and person or persons in charge of the business, if
a corporation, is or are persons of good character and reputation. The commissioner of health shall thereupon submit to
the mayor the said application with the evidence aforesaid,
with his opinion as to the propriety of granting such license,
and if the mayor shall be satisfied that the persons before mentioned are of good character and reputation and are suitable
persons to be entrusted with the sale of cigarettes, he shall issue a license in accordance with such application, upon such
applicant filing a bond payable to the city of Chicago, with at
least two sureties, to be approved by the mayor, in the sum of
$600, conditioned that the licensed person, firm or corporation
shall faithfully observe and obey all laws of the State of illinois and ordinances of the city of Chicago now in force or which
may hereafter be passed, with reference to cigarettes ; provided,
however, that nothing herein contained shall be held to authorize the sale of cigarettes containing opium, morphine, jimson
weed, belladonna, glycerine or sugar.
"Sxc. 2. Every person, on compliance with the aforesaid requirements and the payment in advance to the city collector,
at the rate of $100 per annum, shall receive a license under the
corporate seal, signed by the mayor and countersigned by the
clerk, which shall authorize the person, firm or corporation
therein named to expose for sale, sell or offer for sale cigarettes
at the place designated in the license; provided, that no license
shall be granted to sell within 200 feet of a school house.
"SEc. 8. Any person who shall hereafter have or keep for

sale or expose for sale or offer to sell any cigarettes at any place
within the city of Chicago without having first procured the
license provided shall be fined not less than fifty dollars and
not exceeding two hundred dollars for every violation of this
ordinance, and a further penalty of $25 for each and every day
the person, firm or corporation persists in such violation after a
conviction for the first offence."

GUNDLING v. CHICAGO.
Opinion of the Court.

The other sections are not material to this inquiry.
The plaintiff in error made no application to the health commissioner to obtain a license from the mayor in accordance with
the above mentioned ordinance. He specially set up in the
courts below that the ordinance was invalid, because in violation
of the Fourteenth Amendment as depriving him of his property
without due process of law. Ile contended in the state courts
that the common council of the city of Chicago had no right
to pass the ordinance in question, because no such power was
given to it under the general act of the State of Illinois which
incorporated the city of Chicago. The Supreme Court of the
State, however, in construing that act decided that it did authorize the city to pass the ordinance, and the plaintiff in error
admits that this decision is conclusive upon us as the decision
of a question of local law by the highest court of the State.
He makes two claims here upon which he bases the statement
that the ordinance violates his rights under the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Federal Constitution. Quoting from counsel's brief, these claims are "First,that the State itself, acting
through the common council of the city of Chicago, is inhibited
by the Federal Constitution from making those provisions in
the ordinance which delegate to the mayor the entire subject
of granting and revoking licenses to persons engaged in the business of selling cigarettes; second, that the ordinance is unconstitutional and void as being an unreasonable exercise of the
police power by imposing a license fee of $100, a sum manifestly greater than the expense of issuing the license and providing for the regulation, thereby depriving persons of their
liberty and property by an interference with their rights which
is neither necessary to the protection of others nor the public
health."
He contends that the ordinance vests arbitrary power in the
mayor to grant or refuse a license to sell cigarettes, and that
such arbitrary power is a violation of the amendment in question.
He claims also that he has been denied the equal protection
of the laws, because in other kinds of business, where licenses
are granted to persons engaged in any trade or occupation, no

OCTOBER TERMI, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

member thereof is "singled out and subjected to the absolute
supervision of an irresponsible magistrate vhile his neighbor
is protected in his right by the customary safeguards of the
law."
It seems somewhat doubtful whether the plaintiff in error is
in a position to raise the questipn of the invalidity of the ordinance because of the alleged arbitrary power of the mayor to
grant or refuse it. He made no application for a license, and
of course the mayor has not refused it. JXon constal, that he
would have refused it if application had been made by the plaintiff in error. Whether the discretion of the mayor is arbitrary
or not would seem to be unimportant to the plaintiff in error so
long as he made no application for the exercise of that discretion in his favor and was not refused a license.
But assuming that the question may be raised by him, we
think the ordinance in question does not violate the Fourteenth
Amendment, either in regard to the clause requiring due process of law, or in that providing for the equal protection of the
laws.
The case principally relied upon by the plaintiff in error is
that of Yick Wo v. [Iopkins, 118 U. S. 356, relating to the regulation of laundries in the city of San Francisco. The ordinance
in question in that case was held to be illegal and in violation
of the Fourteenth Amendment, because, with reference to the
subject upon which it touched, it conferred upon the municipal
authorities arbitrary power, at their will and without regard to
discretion in the legal sense of the term, to give or withhold consent as to persons or places for carrying on a laundry, with reference to the competency of the persons applying or the propriety
of the place selected. It was also held that there was a clear
and intentional discrimination made against the Chinese in the
operation of the ordinance, which discrimination was founded
upon the difference of race, and was wholly arbitrary and iunjust. It appeared that both petitioners, who were engaged in
the laundry business, were Chinese and had complied with every
requisite deemed by the law, or by the public officers charged
with its administration, necessary for the protection of neighboring property from fire or as a protection against injury to

GUNDLING v. CHICAGO.
Opinion of the Court.

the public health, and yet the supervisors, for no reason other
than discrimination against the Chinese, refused to grant the
licenses to the petitioners and to some two hundred other Chinese subjects, while granting them to eighty people who were
not such subjects and were working under precisely the same
conditions. Such an ordinance, so executed, was held void by
this court. Speaking in that case of the general right to grant
licenses in regard to occupations or trades, Mr. Justice Matthews, in delivering the opinion of the court, said:
"The ordinance, therefore, also differs from the not unusual
case, where discretion is lodged by law in public officers or bodies
to grant or withhold licenses to keep taverns, or places for the
sale of spirituous liquors, and the like, when one of the conditions is that the applicant shall be a fit person for the exercise
of the privilege, because in such cases the fact of fitness is submitted to the judgment of the officer, and calls for the exercise
of a discretion of a judicial nature."
The ordinance in question here does not grant to the mayor
arbitrary power such as is described in the above mentioned
laundry case, but the provision is similar to that mentioned in
the foregoing extract from the opinion in that case. In the case
at bar, the license is to be issued if the mayor is satisfied that
the person applying is of good character and reputation and a
suitable person to be entrusted with the sale of cigarettes, provided such applicant will file a bond as stated in the ordinance
as a security that he will faithfully observe and obey the laws
of the State and the ordinances of the city with reference to
cigarettes. The mayor is bound to grant a license to every person fulfilling these conditions, and thus the fact of fitness is
submitted to the judgment of the officer, and it calls for the
exercise of a discretion of a judicial nature by him. There is
no proof nor charge in the record that there has been any discrimination against individuals applying for a license or any
abuse of discretion on the part of the mayor. Whether dealing
in and selling cigarettes is that kind of a business which ought
to be licensed is, we think, considering the character of the article to be sold, a question for the State, and through it for the
city to determine for itself, and that an ordinance providing

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

reasonable conditions upon the performance of which a license
may be granted to sell such article does not violate any provision of the Federal Constitution.
Regulations respecting the pursuit of a lawful trade or business are of very frequent occurrence in the various cities of the
country, and what such regulations shall be and to what particular trade, business or occupation they shall apply, are questions for the State to determine, and their determination comes
within the proper exercise of the police power by the State, and
unless the regulations are so utterly unreasonable and extravagant in their nature and purpose that the property and personal
rights of the citizen are unnecessarily, and in a manner wholly
arbitrary, interfered with or destroyed without due process of
law, they do not extend beyond the power of the State to pass,
and they form no subject for Federal interference.
As stated in Crowley v. Christensen, 137 U. S. 86, "the possession and enjoyment of all rights are subject to such reasonable conditions as may be deemed by tlie governing authority
of the country essential to the safety, health, peace, good order
and morals of the community."
Whether there is or is not a delegation of power by the common council to the mayor, is not in this case a Federal question.
We have no doubt that the ordinance, so far as the objection
above considered is concerned, was clearly within the power of
the State to authorize, and must be obeyed accordingly.
The other objection made to the validity of the ordinance is
that the amount of the license fee ($100) is an improper and
illegal interference with the rights of the citizen, and is, therefore, a violation of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The amount of the fee is fixed by the common council for the
privilege of doing business, and the text of the ordinance and
the amount of the fee therein named would seem to indicate
that it is both a means adopted for the easier regulation of the
business, and a tax in the nature of an excise imposed upon the
privilege of doing it. In either case the State has power to
make the exaction, and its exercise by the city under state authority violates no provision of the Federal Constitution.

GUNDLING v. CHICAGO.
Opinion of the Court.

The Supreme Court of Illinois has held that the city was authorized by the state law to impose the license fee.
In speaking of a license to do business, it was said in Royall
v. irginia, 116 U. S. 572, 579: "The payment required as a
preliminary to the license is in the nature and form of a tax,
and is due to the State which it may demand and exact from
every one of its citizens who either will or must follow some
business avocation within its limits, to the pursuit of which the
assessment is made a condition precedent. It is an occupation
tax, for which the license is merely a receipt and not an authority, except in that sense, because it is laid and collected as revenue, and not merely as incident to the general police power of
the State, which, under certain circumstances and conditions,
regulates certain employments with a view to the public health,
comfort and convenience."
It is not a valid objection to the ordinance that it partakes
of both the character of a regulation and also that of an excise
or privilege tax. The business is more easily subjected to the
operation of the power to regulate, where a license is imposed
for following the same, while the revenue obtained on account
of the license is none the less legal because the ordinance which
authorized it fulfils the two functions, one a regulating and the
other a revenue function. So long as the state law authorizes
both regulation and taxation, it is enough, and the enforcement
of the ordinance violates no provision of the Federal Constitution.
There is no error in the record, and the judgment of the Su•preme Court of Illinois is
Affirmed.

