OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

hold that it would be inconsistent with the object of the act to
sustain any recovery back.
In short we agree with the Court of Claims in its conclusions
on both branches of the case.
Judgment aftlrmed.

WATERS-PIERCE OIL COMPANY v. TEXAS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS FOR THE THIRD SUPREME
JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
Xo. 97. Argued January 8, 9, 1900. - Decided March 19, 1900.

It is well settled that a State has the power to impose such conditions as
it pleases upon foreign corporations seeking to do business within it.
The statute of Texas of March 30, 1890, prohibiting foreign corporations,
which violated the provisions of that act, from doing any business within
the State imposed conditions which it was within the power of the State
to impose; and this statute was not repealed by the act of April 30, 1895,
c. 83.

THE Waters-Pierce Oil Company is a private corporation incorporated under the laws of Missouri, and its principal offices
are situated in St. Louis.
It was incorporated to deal in naval stores, and to deal in
and compound petroleum and other oils and their products, and
to buy and sell the same in Missouri and other States. Its capital stock was originally one hundred thousand dollars, but was
subsequently increased to four hundred thousand dollars.
On the 6th day of July, 1889, it filed in the office of the secretary of state of Texas, in accordance with the requirements
of lawi a certified copy of its articles of incorporation, and secured a permit to transact business in the State for the term of
ten years.
By viftue of the permit the company engaged in business in
the State, and while so engaged, it is claimed, violated the statutes of the State against illegal combinations in restraint of

WATERS-PIERCE OIL COMPANY v. TEXAS.

29

Statement of the Case.

competition in trade, (copies of the statutes are inserted. in the
margin,)' and thereby incurred a forfeiture of its permit to do.
business in the State.
1 SEc. 1. Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Texas, That a
trust is a combination of capital, skill or acts by two or more persons,
firms, corporations or associations of persons, or of either two or more of
them for either, any or all of the following purposes: First-To create or
carry out restrictions in trade. Second-To limit or reduce the production,
or increase or reduce the price of merchandise or commodities. ThirdTo prevent competition in manufacture, making, transportation, sale or
purchase of merchandise, produce or commodities. Fourth-To fix at any
standard or figure, whereby its price to the public shall be in any manner
controlled or established, any article or commodity of merchandise, produce or commerce intended for sale, use or consumption in this State.
Fifth-To make or enter into, or execute or carry out any contract, obligation or agreement of any kind or description by which they shall bind
or have bound themselves not to sell, dispose of or transport any article
or commodity, or article of trade, use, merchandise, commerce or consumption below a common standard figure, or by which they shall agree in any
manner to keep the price of such article, commodity or transportation at
a fixed or graduated figure, or by which they shall in any manner establish
or settle the price of any article or commodity or transportation between
them or themselves or others to preclude a free and unrestricted competition
among themselves or others in the sale or transportation of any such article
or commodity, or by which they shall agree to pool, combine or unite any
interest they may have in connection with the sale or transportation of any
such article or commodity that its price might in any manner be affected.
SEC. 2. That any corporation holding a charter under the laws of the
State of Texas which shall violate any of the provisions of this act shall
thereby forfeit its charter and franchise, and its corporate existence shall
cease and determine.
SEc. 3. For a violation of any of the provisions of this act by any corporation mentioned herein it shall be the duty of the attorney general or district or county attorney, or either of them, upon his own motion, and without leave or order of any court or judge, to institute suit or quo warranto
proceedings in Travis County, at Austin, or at the county seat of any county
in the State, where such corporation exists, does business or may have a
domicile, for the forfeiture of its charter rights and franchise, and the dissolution of its corporate existence.
SEC. 4. Every foreign corporation violating any of the provisions of this
act is hereby deniel the right and prohibited from doing any business
within this State, and it shall be the duty of the attorney general to enforce
this provision by injunction or other proper proceedings in the district
court of Travis County, in the name of the State of Texas.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

This suit is brought to enforce such forfeiture, and was tried
in the district court of Travis County, Texas, before the court
SEC. 5. That the provisions of chapter 48, General Laws of this State,
approved July 9, 1879, to prescribe the remedy and regulate the proceedings by quo warranto,etc., shall, except in so far as they may conflict herewith, govern and control the proceedings when instituted to forfeit any
charter under this act.
SEC. 6. Any violation of either or all of the provisions of this act shall
be and is hereby declared a conspiracy against trade, and any person who
may be or may become engaged in any such conspiracy, or take part therein,
or aid or advise in its commission, or who shall, as principal, manager, director, agent, servant or employ6, or in any other capacity, knowingly carry
out any of the stipulations, purposes, prices, rates or orders thereunder, or
in pursuance thereof, shall be punished by fine not less than fifty dollars
nor more than five thousand dollars, and by imprisonment in the penitentiary not less than one nor more than ten years, or by either such fine or
imprisonment. Each day during a violation of this provision shall constitute a separate offense.
SEC. 7. In any indictment for an offense named in this act, it is sufficient
to state the purposes or effects of the trust or'combination, and that the
accused was a member of, acted with or in pursuance of it, without giving
its name or description, or how, when or where it was created.
SEc. 8. In prosecutions under this act it shall be sufficient to prove that
a trust or combination as defined herein exists, and that the defendant belonged to it or acted for or in connection with it, without proving all the
members belonging to it, or proving or producing any article of agreement
or any written instrument on which it may have been based, or that it was
evidenced by any written instrument at all. The character of the trust or
combination alleged may be established by proof of its general reputation
as such.
SEC. 9. Persons out of the State may commit and be liable to indictment
and conviction for committing any of the offenses enumerated in this act,
which do not in their commission necessarily require a personal presence
in this State, the object being to reach and punish all persons offending
against its provisions whether within or without the State.
SEC. 10. !Each and every firm, person, corporation or association of persons who shall in any manner violate any of the provisions of this act, shall
for each and every day that such violation shall be committed or continued
forfeit and pay the sum of fifty dollars, which may be recovered in the name
of the State of Texas in any county where the offense is committed, or
where either of the offenders reside, or in Travis County, and it shall be
the duty of the attorney general or the district or the county attorney to
prosecute for and recover the same.
SEc. 11. That any contract or agreement in violation of the-provisions of
this act shall be absolutely void and not enforceable either in law or equity.

WATERS-PIERCE OIL COMPANY v. TEXAS.

31

Statement of the Case.

and a jury. A verdict was rendered against the company, upon
which a judgment was duly entered. The judgment was affirmed by the Court of Civil Appeals, (19 Texas Civ. App. Rep.
1,) and this writ of error was sued out in due course.
SEC. 12. That the provisions hereof shall be held cumulative of each other
and of all other laws in any way affecting them now in force in this State.
SEc. 13. The i)rovisions of this act shall not apply to agricultural products or live stock while in the hands of the producer or raiser.
Approved March 30, 1889. Acts of 1889, p. 141, c. 177.

The Act of 1895.
Chapter 83.-[H. B. No. 404.] An act to define trusts, provide for penalties
and punishment of corporations, persons, firms and associations of persons connect' . with them, and to promote free competition in the State
of Texas, and to repeal all laws and parts of laws in conflict with this act.
SEc. 1. Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Texas, That an
act entitled "An act to define trusts and to provide for penalties and punisliment of corporations, persons, firms and associations of persons connected with them, and to promote free competition in the State of Texas,"
approved March 30, 1889, be so amended as to hereafter read as follows:
SEc. 1. That a trust is a combination of capital, skill or acts by two or
more persons, firms, corporations or associations of persons, or either two
or more of them, for either, any or all of the following purposes:
1. To create or carry out restrictions in trade, (or commerce, or aids to
commerce, or to create or carry out restrictions in the full and free pursuit
of any business authorized or permitted by the laws of this State.)
2. To increase or reduce the price of merchandise, produce or commodities.
3. To prevent competition in manufacture, making, transportation, sale
or purchase of merchandise, produce or commodities, or to prevent competition in aids to commerce.
4. To fix at any standard or figure, whereby its price to the public shall
be in any manner controlled or established, any article or commodity of
merchandise, produce or commerce intended for sale, use or consumption
in this State.
5. To make or enter into or execute or carry out any contract, obligation
or agreement of any kind or description by which they shall bind or have
bound themselves not to sell, dispose of or transport any article or 'commodity, or article of trade, use, merchandise, commerce or consumption
below a common standard figure, or by which they shall agree in any manner to keep the price of such article, commodity or transportation at a fixed
or graded figure, or by which they shall in any manner establish or settle
the price of any article or commodity or transportation between them or
themselves and others to preclude a free and unrestricted competition
among themselves or others in the sale or transportation of any such article

OCTOBER TERM 1899.
Statement of the Case.

The pleadings are very voluminous, alleging the grounds of
action and the grounds of defence, with much elaboration and
many repetitions.
or commodity, or by which they shall agree to pool, combine or unite any
interest they may have in connection with the sale or transportation of any
such article or commodity that its price might in any manner be affected.
SEC. 2. That any corporation holding a charter under the laws of the
State of Texas which shall violate any of the provisions of this act shall
thereby forfeit its charter and franchise, and its corporate existence shall
cease and determine.
SEC. 3. For a violation of any of the provisions of this act by any corporation mentioned herein it shall be the duty of the attorney general or district or county attorney, or either of them, upon his own motion and without leave or order of any court or judge, to institute suit or quo warranto
proceedings in Travis County, at Austin, or at the county seat of any county
in the State where such corporation exists, does business or may have a
domicile, for the forfeiture of its charter rights and franchise and the dissolution of its corporate existence.
SEc. 4. Every foreign corporation violating any of the provisions of this
act is hereby denied the right and prohibited from doing any business
within this State, and it shall be the duty of the attorney general to enforce
this provision by injunction or other proper proceedings in the district
court of TraVis County, in the name of the State of Texas.
SEc. 5. That the provisions of chapter 48, General Laws of this State,
approved July 9, 1879, to prescribe the remedy and regulate the proceedings by quo warranto, etc., shall, except in so far as they may conflict herewith, govern and control the proceedings when instituted to forfeit any
charter under this act.
SEC. 6. If any person shall be or may become engaged in any combination
of capital, skill or acts by two or more persons, firms, corporations or associations of persons, or of either two or more of them, for either, any or all
of the following purposes:
1. To create or carry out restrictions in trade or commerce or aids to
commerce, or tQ create or carry out restrictions in the full and free pursuit
of any business authorized or permitted by the laws of this State.
2. To increase or reduce the price of merchandise, produce or commodities.
3. To prevent competition in manufacture, making, transportation, sale
or purchase of merchandise, produce or commodities, or to prevent competition in aids to commerce.
4. To fix at any standard or figure whereby its price to the public shall
be in any manner controlled or established any article or commodity of
merchandise, produce or commerce intended for sale, use or consumption
in this State.

WATERS-PIERCE OIL COMPANY v. TEXAS.
Statement of the Case.

The basis of the action is an agreement which is set out in
full in the complaint, made on the second day of January, 1882,
5. To make or enter into or execute or carry out any contract, obligation
or agreement of any kind or description, by which they shall bind or have
bound themselves not to sell, dispose of or transport any article or commodity, or article of trade, use, merchandise, commerce or consumption,
below a common standard figure, or by which they shall agree in any manner to keep the price of such article, commodity or transportation at a fixed
or graduated figure, or by which they shall in any manner establish or settle
the price of any article or commodity or transportation between them or
themselves and others to preclude a free and unrestricted competition
among themselves and others in the sale or transportation of any such
article or commodity, or by which they shall agree to pool, combine or unite
any interest they may have in connection with the sale or transportation of
any such article or commodity that its prices may in any manner be affected,
or aid or advise in the creation or carrying out of any such combination, or
who shall as principal, manager, director, agent, servant or employd, or in
any other capacity, knowingly carry out any of the stipulations, purposes,
prices, rates, directions, conditions or orders of such combinations, shall
be punished by fine of not less than fifty nor more than five thousand dollars, and by imprisonment in the penitentiary not less than one nor more
than ten years, or by either such fine or imprisonment. Each day during
a violation of this provision shall constitute a separate offense.
SEc. 7. In any indictment for an offense named in this act it is sufficient
to state the effects or purposes of the trust or combination, and that the
accused was a member of, acted with or in pursuance of it, without giving
its name or description, or how, when or where it was created.
SEC. 8. In prosecutions under this act it shall be sufficient to prove that
a trust or combination as defined herein exists, and that the defendant
belonged to it or acted for or in connection with it, without proving all the
members belonging to it, or proving or producing any article of agreement
or any written instrument on which it may have been based, or that it was
evidenced by any written instrument at all. The character of the trust or
combination alleged may be established by proof of its general reputation
as such.
SEc. 9. Persons out of the State may commit and be liable to indictment
and conviction for committing any of the offenses enumerated in this act,
which do not in their commission necessarily require a personal presence in
this State, the object being to reach and punish all persons offending
against its provisions, whether within or without the State.
SEC. 10. Each and every firm, person, corporation or association of persons who shall in any manner violate any of the provisions of this act shall
for each and every day that such violation shall be committed or continued
forfeit and pay the sum of fifty dollars, wbiich may be recovered in the name
of the State of Texas in any county where the offense is committed, or
VOL. CtXXV1-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

between a great many firms and partnerships, individuals and
corporations, owning and controlling a large amount of the
money and capital invested in the production of petroleum and
its products, and in their shipment and sale.
The parties to the agreement embraced three classes: (1) certain partnerships and corporations, of the number of eleven;
(2) certain individuals, of the number of forty-four, who are
enumerated; and (3) a portion of the stockholders and members
of other corporations and limited partnerships, twenty-five being
enumerated, one of which was the Waters-Pierce Oil Company.
Other individuals, partnerships and corporations could afterwhere either of the offenders reside, or in Travis County, and it shall be the
duty of the attorney general or the district or county attorney to prosecute
for and recover the same.
SEC. 11. That any contract or agreement in violation of the provisions of
this act shall be absolutely void and not enforceable either in law or equity.
SEC. 12. That the provisions hereof shall be held cumulative of each other
and of all other laws in any way affecting them now in force in this State;
provided, this act shall not be held to apply to live stock and agricultural
products in the hands of the producer or raiser, nor shall it be understood
or construed to prevent the organization of laborers for the purpose of
maintaining any standard of wages.
SEC. 13. That nothing in this act shall be held or construed to affect or
destroy any rights which may have accrued, or to affect the right of the
State to recover penalties, or to affect the right of the State to forfeit
charters of domestic corporations and prohibit foreign corporations from
doing business in this State, or affect the right of the State to maintain
prosecutions for violations thereof, under any law of this State relating to
trusts, for acts heretofore done.
SEC. 14. Any court, officer or tribunal having jurisdiction of the offense
defined in this act, or any district or county attorney or grand jury, may
subpoena persons and compel their attendance as witnesses to testify as to
the violation of any of the provisions of the foregoing sections. Any person so summoned and examined shall not be liable to prosecution for any
violation of said sections about which he may testify fully and without
reservation.
SEC. 15. All laws or parts of laws in conflict with this act are hereby repealed.
SEc. 16. Whereas, the people of this State are without an adequate
remedy against trusts, thbrefore an emergency and imperative public necessity exists requiring that the constitutional rule which requires that all
bills shall be read on three several days, be suspended, and it is so enacted.
Approved, April 30, 1895.

WATERS-PIERCE OIL COMPANY v. TEXAS.
Statement of the Case.

wards join upon the request of the trustees provided for by the
agreement.
It was mutually agreed that a corporation should be formed
in Ohio, New York, Pennsylvania and New Jersey, or any
existing corporation could be used, to mine, inanufacture, refine
and deal in petroleum and all its products and all the materials
used in such business, and transact other business collateral
thereto.
To the several corporations thus organized all the business,
rights and stock of the parties to the agreement were to be
transferred, and trust certificates issued in consideration thereof.
It is averred that the object of the parties in entering into
said agreement and trust was to control and monopolize the
petroleum in(ustry in the United States and the several States
thereof, and the business of manufacturing, refining, selling and
transporting petroleum and its products, refined, illuminating
and lubricating oils, and that they intended to ani did create,
make and effect a coibination of their capital, skill and acts for
such purposes and for the following pirposes, to wit:
"1st. To create and carry out restrictions in trade in petroleum and its products, refined, illuminating and lubricating oil,
in the United States, and in the domestic trade of the States
thereof.
"2d. To increase the price of petroleum and its products,
same being commercial commodities and of prime necessity to
the people.
"3d. To prevent competition in the manufacture, sale and
purchase of petroleum and its products.
"4th. To fix at a standard figure the price of petroleum and
its products, whereby the price of the same to the public shall
be controlled and established, petroleum and its products being
commodities of merchandise, intended for use and sale in the
State of Texas as well as other States.
"5th. For the purpose of agreeing, obligating and binding
themselves not to sell, dispose of or transport petroleum and its
said products below a common standard figure, and to keep the
price of petroleum and its products at a fixed or graded figure,
and establish and settle the price of petroleum and its products

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

between themselves and others, and to preclude a free'and unrestricted competition among themselves and others in the sale of
petroleum and its products, and for the purpose of pooling, combining and uniting any interest they should and did have in
connection with the sale of petroleum and its products, that the
prices of same might be affected."
That the trustees provided for in said agreement proceeded to
execute it, and are still executing it, and for such purpose have
divided the markets of the United States in various subdivisions,
and one of them is composed of Southwestern Missouri, Arkansas, Texas, Indian Territory, Oklahoma Territory and a part of
Louisiana.
That the means employed to effect the purpose of the agreement is to reduce prices below what is reasonable in order to
destroy competition, and when it is destroyed raise them again
above the market price. A member of the trust is indemnified
against loss by the combined power and wealth of all of its
parties.
That the Waters-Pierce Oil Company has become a party to
said agreement through the control that the trustees acquired
by a transfer of stock of the oil company to them, and that the
company has taken no corporate action against the transfer of
such stock or such control, but has acquiesced in both, and,
"through its directors, officers and agents conforms its corporate
action to the policy fixed by said nine trustees....
and
pursues . . . and executes the purposes and objects of said
trust agreement above set out in this State."
That in pursuance of the policy of said agreement it confines
its business in the subdivision aforesaid, does not invade or
transact business in any other; that no other party to the agreement transacts business in the territory allotted to and accepted
by the Waters-Pierce Oil Company, and the latter adopts and
pursues the methods of driving out and overcoming competition
in the sale of oils that are adopted and pursued by the other
members in the territory allotted to them ; that in the market
of Texas there is no competition between the Waters-Pierce Oil
Company and such other parties; and that by reason of the facts
stated the Waters-Pierce Oil Company has monopolized and still

WATERS-PIERCE OIL COMPANY v. TEXAS.
Statement of the Case.

monopolizes the trade in petroleum and its products in Texas,
and performs the unlawful purpose of said trust agreements "in
reference to the trade in said commodities which are of prime
importance and necessity to the people of the State."
That since the 6th day of July, 1889, the oil company has
made contracts, sometimes in writing and sometimes verbally,
with merchants and others through its agents in this State, in
consideration of a small rebate on the oil purchased, or for
other considerations unknown to the plaintiff, whereby the
said merchants have contracted not to buy any oil from any
other person or corporation, but will "deal with and buy and
sell oils obtained from said defendant company exclusively,"
and in some instances agreed with said company not to sell the
oils so bought to any one buying from or dealing with any
other person or corporation dealing in oils in competition with
the defendant.
The names of some of the persons and merchants are given.
That about the year 1890 the defendant company entered
into contracts with certain jobbers and merchants of the city
of Brownsville, whereby they respectively agreed to buy all
the oil needed in their respective businesses of the defendant
company for various rebates on the box or gallon, and they
were respectively to sell such oil to retail dealers at the invoice price fixed by the company, and various penalties were
agreed to be paid to the company if oil should be purchased
from any one else, and that business was done under said
contracts until certain dates in the latter part of December,
1896.
That the company is seeking to renew all of said contracts,
and is seeking to carry on its business in said city under the
same.
That the Eagle Refining Company is a corporation legally
incorporated in Ohio for the purpose of manufacturing, refining, compounding and dealing in all kinds of oils, greases and
petroleum and its various products, and duly obtained a permit to do such business in the State of Texas on the 6th day
of November, 1891, and began to transact such business in
the State "in honest and sharp competition with the Waters-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

Pierce Oil Company," and continued to do so up to the 13th
day of October, 1891, when the two companies "entered into
a certain combination and trust," the exact terms of which
are unknown to petitioner, whereby the oil company secured
the control of all the property, business and franchises of the
Eagle Company, and the latter agreed to withdraw from doing
any business in the State in competition with the oil company
for fifteen years.
That since said date the oil company has been doing business
in the name of the Eagle Company in apparent, but not real,
competition with itself, and that said contract has affected the
production of petroleum and has affected also the sale of its
products.
It is also averred that prior to the year 1890 one C. W. Robinson was engaged in the oil business in competition with the
oil company, and that some day in that year the company entered into an agreement with him by the terms of which the
company secured the control and management of his business,
although it is conducted in his name; that by the terms of the
agreement he is to buy and sell exclusively the oils of the company, and the agreement is still in force.
That the contracts and agreements with the merchants aforesaid and with the Eagle Refining Company and said Robinson
were for the purposes hereinbefore enumerated, and resulted
in effecting such purposes.
That the oil company, since its permit to do business in the
State, has abused its franchises and privileges; has monopolized the oil trade in the State; has unlawfully entered into
the contracts mentioned above, and is engaged in making
similar ones; has lowered the price of its oils against competing oils below a reasonable and fair market price; either
has refused to sell or would sell only at an exorbitant figure
to any person who dealt in competing oils; has pursued and
carried out a system of threats and intimidations and bribery
to prevent parties from buying or selling competing oils; has
threatened those dealing in such oils with a ruinous reduction
of price, has given rebates to buyers from it as an inducement
not to patronize a competitor, has offered money or the pay-

WATERS-PIERCE OIL COMPANY v. TEXAS.
Statement of the Case.

ment of expenses incident thereto, to get and induce parties
ordering competing oils to countermand the orders, and refuse
to take the same after contracting therefor. That this is the
general course of dealing pursued by the oil company, and
when competitive oils are driven out of the market thereby
it raises the price of oil far above the true and reasonable
market value of the same.
That such course of dealing has resulted in the complete
monopolization by the oil company with the oil trade of the
State, and is still stifling and threatening legitimate competition to the great injury of the people of the State,
That by reason of the acts detailed the oil company has forfeited its right and permit to do business in the State.
To the petition of the State the oil company demurred and
answered. In its demurrer it urged the repugnancy of the
statutes of the 1889 and 1895 to the Fourteenth Amendment
of the Constitution of the United States, and the insufficiency
of the allegations of the petition as a ground of forfeiture of
its permit to do business in the State. In its answer it denied
generally and specifically those allegations, claimed the permit
,as a contract, and invoked the Constitution of the United States
against its impairment by a subsequent law of the State; claimed
to be engaged in interstate commerce, and denied the jurisdiction of the State to regulate it.
There was evidence submitted on the issues, but the court instructed the jury that the evidence was not sufficient to show
that the oil company became a member of or entered into the
Standard Oil Trust agreement. Also that the contracts with
the Eagle Refining Company and with C. W. Robinson were
not in violation of the laws of the State, and confined their consideration to their bearing upon the course of dealing of the
company in the State.
The court also withdrew transactions of interstate commerce
from the consideration of the jury, and submitted only those of
local business.
Applying the facts of the case to the definitions of the statutes, the court instructed the jury as follows:
"Now, if you find from the evidence that the defendant corn-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

pany, acting through its duly appointed and authorized agents,
entered into and performed a contract in the State of Texas with
any of the parties dealing in, buying and selling oils, as named
and set out in plaintiff's petition, since July 6, 1889, by the
terms of which contract it was agreed that said parties were to
buy oil from the defendant company exclusively for a specified
time and from no other source, in consideration of rebates allowed them by defendant company, or for any other valuable
consideration, or if you find that said company, so acting through
its duly appointed and authorized agents since said date, made,
entered into and carried out a contract in this State with any
of the persons named and as stated in plaintiff's petition, by the
terms of which said parties bound and obligated themselves for
a valuable consideration to buy all the oils from defendant company, and not to buy oils from any other source for any specified time, and not to sell said oils so bought fro~m defendant
company to any person handling or dealing in oils in competition with defendant company, or if said defendant company, so
acting since said date, made and entered into and carried out
in this State a contract with any of the parties as stated and
named in plaintiff's petition, by the terms of which said parties, for a ,valuable consideration, bound and obligated themselves to said company, either verbally or in writing, to buy all
their oils exclusively from defendant company and from no
other source, and to sell said oils so bought to other parties desiring to purchase the same at a price fixed by said company's
officers or agents, and you further find that said sales of oils
were not interstate commerce, as that is hereinafter explained
to you, and that said officers or agents so acting for said company in making said contracts, if any were so made, were acting in the scope of their employment and duty, and were
authorized to make such contracts by the governing officers of
said company, or that said governing officers, with a knowledge
that said contracts had been made, consented to and ratified or
carried out the same after they were made, then you are instructed that the defendant would be guilty of violating the
laws against trusts of this State, and if you so find the facts to
be as above stated you will return a verdict for the plaintiff
against the defendant Waters-Pierce Oil Company."

WATERS-PIERCE OIL COMPANY v. TEXAS.
Counsel for Parties.

The jury rendered a verdict against the defendant company,
but in favor of the individual defendants, upon which the following judgment was entered against the cornpany:

"It is therefore ordered, adjudged and decreed by the court
that the defendant, the Waters-Pierce Oil Company, be, and is
hereby, denied the right and prohibited from doing any business within this State, and that its permit to do business within
this State, heretofore issued July 6, 1889, by the secretary of
state of this State, be, and the same is hereby, cancelled and held
for naught, and that said defendant, the Waters-Pierce Oil Company, its managers, superintendents, agents, servants and attorneys, be, and are hereby, perpetually enjoined and restrained
from doing business within this State.
"Nothing herein shall be construed to in any way affect or
apply to or prohibit said defendant's right to engage in interstate commerce within this State."
On appeal to the Court of Civil Appeals the judgment was
affirmed, the court holding that the statutes were valid exercises
of the police power of the State. It also held that the statute
of 1889 was a condition of the permit of the Waters-Pierce Oil
Company to do business in the State. A rehearing was denied.
A writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State was denied,
and the case was then brought here.
The assignments of error express in various ways the alleged
discriminations of the statutes between persons and classes of
persons, and the alleged deprivation of many persons of the
right and liberty of contract, while permitting such right and
liberty to others; the denial to foreign corporations of the right
to do any business in the State, interstate or otherwise; the assumption by the State of the power to punish acts done out of
the State, and authorizing a conviction of what are claimed to
be criminal offences by a preponderance of proof.
M2Jr. George Clark and vr.John D. Johnson for plaintiff in
error. iMr. D. C. Bolinger was on their brief. Mr.S. C. T.
Dodd filed a brief for same.
.Mr.T. S. Smith for defendant in error. M'. ff. X. Crane
and jMr. T. A. Fuller filed a brief for same.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE MOICKENNA, after making the above statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

Transactions of interstate commerce were withdrawn from
the consideration of the jury and were also excepted from the
judgment. The transactions of local commerce which were
held by the state courts, trial and appellate, to be violations of
the statutes consisted in contracts with certain merchants by
which the plaintiff in error required them to buy oils exclusively
from it, "and from no other source;" or buy oils exclusively
from it and not to sell to any person handling competing oils;
or to buy exclusively from it and to sell at a price fixed by it.
The statutes must be considered in reference to these contracts.
In any other aspect they are not subject to our review on this
record, except the power of the state court to restrict their regulation to local commerce, upon which a contention is raised.
It is based on the following provision :
;"Every foreign corporation violating any of the provisions of
this act is hereby denied the right and prohibited from doing
any business within this State, and it shall be the duty of the
attorney general to enforce this provision by injunction or other
proceedings in the district court of Travis County in the name
of the State of Texas."
The claim is, if we understand it, that the statute prohibits
all business of foreign corporations, and hence is unconstitutional as including interstate business, and cannot be limited by
judicial construction to local business, and the unconstitutional
taint thereby removed. To sustain the contention United States
v. Reese, 92 U. S. 214, 221; Trade Jiare Cases, 100 U. S. 82;
United States v. larris,106 U. S: 629; Baldwin v. Franks,
120 U. S. 678, and some other cases are cited. They do not,
sustain the contention. The interpretation of certain statutes
of the United States was involved, and the court finding the
meaning of the statutes plain, decided that it could not be
changed by construction even to save the statutes from unconstitutionality. This was but an exercise of judicial interpretation.
The courts of Texas have like power of interpretation of the

WATERS-PIERCE OIL COMPANY v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

statutes of Texas. What they say the statutes of that State
mean we must accept them to mean whether it is declared, by
limiting the objects of their general language or by separating
their provisions into valid and invalid parts. Tullis v. Lake
Kvie & Western Railroad,175 U. S. 348; St. Louis, Iron Mouhtain, &c., Railroad v. Paul, 173 U. S. 404.
We may return therefore to the propositions which were submitted to the jury.
They have been broadly discussed, and considerations have
been presented which transcend them, and relate to grievances
which do not affect plaintiff in error. We are confined to its
grievance. Clark v. Kansas City, 176 U. S..114; Tullis v. Lake
Erie & Western Railroad,175 U. S. 348.
What is it? It is said that the statutes of Texas limit its right
to make contracts and takle away the property or liberty assured by the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the
United States. Besides, it is asserted that the statutes make
many discriminations, between persons and classes of persons,
and able arguments are built upon their alleged injustice and
oppression. We are not called upon to answer those arguments
or to condemn or vindicate the statutes on this record.
The plaintiff in error is a foreign corporation, and what right
of contracting has it in the State of Texas? This is the only inquiry, and it cannot find an answer in the rights of natural persons. It can only find an answer in the rights of corporations
and the power of the State over them. What those rights are
and what that power is has often been declared by this court.
A corporation is the creature of the law, and none of its
powers are original. They are precisely what the incorporating
act has made them, and can only be exerted in the manner which
that'act authorizes. In other words, the State prescribes the
purposes of a corporation and the means of executing those purposes. Purposes and means are within the State's control.
This is true as to domestic corporations. It has even a broader
application to foreign corporations.
Bank of Augusta v. Earle, 13 Pet. 519, involved the power
of the Bank of Augusta, chartered by the State of Georgia, and
invested by its charter with a function of dealing in bills of

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

exchange, to exercise that function in the State of Alabama. In
passing on the question certain principles, were declared which
have never since been disturbed.
A contract of, the corporation, it was declared, is the contract
of the legal entity, and not of its individual members. Its rights
are those given to it in that character, and not the rights which
belong to its constituent citizens.
Its charter confers its powers and the means of executing
them, and such powers and means can only be exercised in other
States by the permission of the latter.
Chief Justice Taney said, delivering the opinion of the court,
p. 587:
"The nature and character of a corporation created by a statute, and the extent of the powers which it may lawfully exercise, have upon several occasions been under consideration in
this court. In the case of Head v. Providence Insurance Com-

pany, 2 Cranch, 127, Chief Justice Marshall, in delivering the
opinion of the court, said: 'Without ascribing to this body,
which in its corporate capacity is the mere creature of the act
to which it owes its existence, all the qualities and disabilities
annexed by the common law to ancient institutions of this sort,
it may correctly be said to be precisely what the incorporating
act has made it ; to derive all its powers from that act, and to
be capable of exerting its faculties only in the manner which
that act authorizes. To this source of its being, then, we must
recur to ascertain its powers; and to determine whether it can
complete a contract by such communications as are in this record.' In the case of Dartmouth College v. Woodward,4 Wheat.
636, the same principle was again decided by the court. 'A corporation,' said the court, ' is an artificial being, invisible, intangible and existing only in contemplation of law. Being a mere
creature of the law, it possesses only those properties which the
character of its creation confers upon it, either expressly or as
incidental to its very existence.' And in the case of the Banc
of the United States v. Dandridge, 12 Wheat. 64, where the

question in relation to the powers of corporations and their mode
of action were very carefully considered, the court said: ' But
whatever may be the implied powers of aggregate corporations,

WATERS-PIERCE OIL COMPANY v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

by the common law, and the modes by which those pQwers are
to be carried into operation, corporations created by statute,
must depend, both for their powers and the mode of exercising
them, upon the true construction of the statute itself.'"
The power of the bank to deal in bills of exchange in the
State of Alabama was sustained, but it was pit upon the ground
that neither the policy of the State nor its laws forbade it, and
that the law of international comity which prevailed there sustained it.
In Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168, 181, the dependent and
derivative rights of corporations were again declared. Bank
of Augusta v. Earle was quoted from, and it was again decided
that a corporation is the mere creation of local law, and can
have no legal existence beyond the limits of the sovereignty
where created, and the recognition of its existence in other
States and the enforcement of its contracts made therein depend,
purely upon the comity of those States.
"Having no absolute right of recognition in other States, but
depending for such recognition and enforcement of its contracts
upon their assent, it follows, as a matter of course, that such
assent may be granted. upon such terms and conditions as those
States may think proper to impose. They may exclude the
foreign corporation entirely; they may restrict its business to
particular localities, or they may exact such security for the
performance of its contracts with their citizens as in their judgment will best promote the public interest. The whole matter
rests in their discretion."
And it was also decided that a corporation did not have'the
rights of its personal members, and could not invoke that provision of section 2, article 4, of the Constitution of the United
States, which gave to the citizens of each State the privileges
and immunities of citizens of the several States. See also Pembina Mining 6Co. v. Penn, 125 U. S.181; Ducat v. Chicago, 10
Wall. 410. And it has since been held in Blake v. McClung,
172 U. S. 239, and in Orient Insurance Company v. Daggs, 172
U. S.557, that the prohibitive words of the Fourteenth Amendment have no broader application in that respect.
In Blake v. ZoClung, a Virginia corporation was denied the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

right to participate upon terms of equality with Tennessee
creditors in the distribution of the assets of a British corporation in the hands of a Tennessee court.
In Orient Insurance Co. v. Daggs, the right of the company,

a Connecticut corporation, to limit by contract its liability to
the actual damages caused by fire, notwithstanding a provision
in a statute of Missouri making the measure of damages in case
of total loss the value of the property stated in the policy, was
denied.
See also Pembina ifning Co. v. Penn, 125 U. S. 181.

In Hoover v. California,155 U. S. 64:8, conditions upon a
foreign corporation were considered, and a statute of California
sustained, making it a misdemeanor for a person in that State
to procure insurance for a resident in the State from an insurance company not incorporated under its laws, and which had
not filed a bond required by the law of the State.. All preceding cases were cited, and it was assumed as settled "that the
right of a foreign corporation to engage in business within a
State other than that of its creation depends solely upon the
will of such other State." And the exception to the rule was
stated to be "only cases where a corporation created by one
State rests its right to enter another and engage in business
therein upon the Federal nature of its business."
This exception was recognized in the case at bar and the
business of the plaintiff in error of a Federal nature excluded
from the operation of the judgment.
The pending case might be rested on Hooper v. California,
simply las authority, and we have entered upon the reasoning
upon which it was based, because its application to the contentions of the plaintiff in error is not properly estimated in
the arguments of counsel.
Nor can the plaintiff in error claim an exemption from the
principle on the ground that thq permit of the company was a
contract inviolable against subsequent legislation by the State.
That contention was presented to the Court of Civil Appeals,
and the court properly replied: "After the act of 1889 went
into effect the State granted to appellant [plaintiff in error
here] authority to engage in its business within the State for a

WATERS-PIERCE OIL COMPANY v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

period of ten years. The act of 1889, as well as that of 1895,
provides for the forfeiture of the permit of a foreign corporation which may violate any of the provisions of the statute.
The act in force when the appellant entered the State
informed it that for a violation of its terms the permit to do
business here would be forfeited. This provision of the law
was as much a part of the obligation, and as binding upon the
appellant, as if it had beerl expressly made part of the permit."
The statute of 1889, therefore, was a condition upon the
plaintiff in error within the power of the State to impose, and
whatever its limitations were upon the power of contracting,
whatever itg discriminations were, they became conditions of
the permit and were accepted with it.
The statute was not repealed by the act of 1895. The only
substantial addition made by the latter was to exclude from its
provisions organizations of laborers, for the purpose of maintaining a standard of wages. The Court of Civil Appeals said
of it, p. 18:
"If the clause in the act of 1895 which exempts from its
operation labor organizations for fhe purpose of maintaining
their wages would render that statute obnoxious to the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution, which wedo not think
the case, the entire act would be void, and could not operate
as a repeal of the former law of 1889; and so that if it should
be determined that this latter act was unconstitutional, the former act would be in force, and would not be subject to the
objections urged against it, for the reasons stated by us in passing upon these objections, and therefore the State could maintain a case under this act.",
In other words, as to that act the situation is this: It is
either constitutional or unconstitutional. If it is constitutional,
the plaintiff in error has no legal cause to complain of it. If
unconstitutional, it does not eaffect the act of 1889, and that,
as we have seen, imposes valid conditions upon the plaintiff in
error, and their violation subjected its permit to do business
in the State to f6rfeiture.
Judgment afirmed.
AIh. JUSTICE HAIRLAN

dissented.

