CINCINNATI, HAMILTON, &c., RY. CO. v. THIEBAUD. 615
Statement of the Case.

CINCINNATI, HAMILTON AND DAYTON RAILROAD COMPANY v. THIEBAUD.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 259. Argued April 24, 1900. -Decided May 14, 1900.

SAME v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 271.

Submitted April 24, 1900.-Decided May 14, 1900.

A record showing an instruction by the Circuit Court directing a jury that
the plaintiff is entitled to recover in his action under a state law, upon
which the plaintiff relies for recovery, to which instruction a general
exception is reserved by the defendant, does not disclose a case in which
it is claimed that the law of a State is in contravention of the Constitution of the United States, within the meaning of section 5, of the act of
March 3, 1891, where the record of the Circuit Court does not affirmatively show that any issue as to the statute was raised by the pleadings,
and Where the record does not affirmatively show that said exception to
said instruction was upon the ground that said statute was in contravention of the Constitution of the United States, or that the constitutionality
of said statute Was otherwise presented or considered or passed upon by
the Circuit Court.
The act of March 3, 1891, does not contemplate several separate appeals or
writs of error, on the merits in the same case and at the same time to or
from two appellate courts, and the record in No. 271 falls within this rule.

THE certificate in No. 259 reads as follows:

"This was an action brought by Benj. F. Thiebaud, a citizen
of Indiana, as administrator of Chris. Sweetmnan, deceased,
appointed by the Circuit Court of Fayette County, Indiana,
against the C., H. and D. R. R. Co., a corporation and citizen of

Ohio, to recover damages for the wrongful death of said Chris.
Sweetman, who, while employed as a locomotive engineer by
said company, on an engine drawing its pay car, was, without

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

fault on his part, killed in a collision between his engine and
that of a freight train. The collision was caused by the negligence of the conductor and engineer of the freight train. The
court charged the jury, among other things, that inasmuch as
the deceased had been killed through the negligence of fellowservants, the defendant would probably not be liable at common law, but that it was liable for the negligence charged and
admitted under the act of the general assembly of Indiana, approved March 4, 1893, entitled ' An act regulating the liability
of railroad and other corporations, except municipal, for personal injuries to persons employed by them,' etc. Laws of Indiana, 1893, p. 291; Rev. Stat. Ind. sees. 7083-7087. Upon
which act the plaintiff relied for recovery; to which charge the
defendant excepted.
"The record does not show upon what ground said exception
was taken and does not show that said exception xyasupon the
ground that the statute contravenes the Constitution of the
United States, or that the constitutionality of the statute was
otherwise raised or considered or decided by the Circuit Court.
The statute is not mentioned in any of the pleadings. The rec
ord shows other exceptions taken, duly assigned for error, which
do not raise any constitutional question, And which may require
the reversal of the judgment of the Circuit Court without reference to any constitutional question.
"The jury rendered a verdict in favor of the plaintiff, and
judgment was entered thereon.
"Thereafter the defendant brought the case, by writ of error,
to this court, and assigned for error:
"1. That the court erred in charging the jury that the defendant was liable under the act of the general assembly of Indiana,
appr6ved March 4, 1893.
"2. That said act is in contravention of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States.
"3. That said act is in contravention of the constitution of
the State of Indiana and especially of article 11, section 23, of
article 4, sections 19 and 23 thereof.
"4. That the court erred in overruling the defendant's motion
to dismiss the action for want of jurisdiction.

CINCINNATI, HAMILTON, &c., RY. CO. v. THIEBAUD. 617
Statement of the Case.
"5. That the court erred in refusing to permit the defendant
to put the following question to the witness, Charles M. Cist:
'Where were those personal effects at the time you made your
application? '
"6. That the court erred in ruling out and excluding the
testimony offered by the defendant to show that plaintiff's
administration was not based upon any personal estate in Fayette County, Indiana, other than the claim sued on.
"Thereupon the defendant in error moved in this court to
dismiss the case for want of jurisdiction, on the ground that it
is a case in which it is claimed that the statute of a State is in
contravention of the Constitution of the United States, and
that, therefore, under section 5 of the act of Congress approved
March 3, 1891, (26 Stat. 826,) the writ of error should be taken
from the Supreme Court of the United States and not from this
court.
"The court is in doubt whether the case is within the provisions of said section of the act of Congress, and, therefore,
upon the foregoing statement of facts it is ordered that the following questions be certified to the Supreme Court of the United
States for'its instructions:
" 1. Has the Circuit Court of Appeals jurisdiction of a writ
of error to the Circuit Court in a case in which it is claimed
that a law of a State is in contravention of the Constitution of
the United States, where the record presents other questions
not involving the Constitution of the United States.
-" 2. Has the Circuit Court of Appeals jurisdiction of a writ
of error to the Circuit Court in a case in which it is claimed
that a law of a State is in contravention of. the Constitution of
the United States, where the record presents other questions
not involving the Constitution of the United States, which might
require a reversal of the judgment without reference to such
constitutional question?
"3. Does a record showing an instruction by the Circuit
Court directing a jury that the plaintiff is entitled to recover in
his action under a state law, upon which the plaintiff relies for
recovery, to which instruction a general exception is reserved
by the defendant, disclose a case in which it is claimed that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

law 6f a State is in contravention of the Constitution of the
United States, within the meaning of section 5 of the act of
March 3, 1891, where the record of the Circuit Court does not
affirmatively show that any issue as to the statute was raised
by the pleadings, and where the record does not affirmatively
show that said exception-to said instruction was upon the ground
that said statute was in contravention of the Constitution of
the United States, or that the constitutionality of said statute
was otherwise presented or considered or passed upon by the
Circuit Court?
"4. If it be considered that such record in the Circuit Court
does not disclose a case in which a law of a State is claimed to
be in contravention of the Constitution of the United States,
but such claim is made, so far as the record shows, for the first
time in the Circuit Court of Appeals by assignment of error,
and is insisted upon at the bar, has the Circuit Court of Appeals jurisdiction in error to hear and determine the constitutional question raised by such claim? "
No. 271 is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of Ohio to review the judgment
referred to in the certificate. In the petition for the writ, defendant set forth that "having duly prosecuted the writ of error
heretofore allowed by the court to the United States Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, the plaintiff in this case,
being the defendant in error, filed a motion in said Circuit Court
of Appeals to dismiss said writ of error upon the ground that
the same should have been taken to the Supreme Court of the
United States instead of to the United States Circuit Court of
Appeals, and that said Circuit Court of Appeals was therefore
without jurisdiction upon said writ of error. Said Circuit Court
of Appeals, being in doubt whether i has jurisdiction, has certified certain questions to the Supreme Court of the United
States. In view of said proceedings, the defendant, being now
in doubt as to whether said writ of error to the United States
Circuit Court of Appeals was properly allowed, but without
prejudice to said proceeding in error, if it shall hereafter be determined that the same was properly taken, and that the Circuit
Court of Appeals has jurisdiction thereof, now prays for a writ

CINCINNATI, HAMILTON, &c., RY. CO. v. THIEBAUD. 619
Opinion of the Court.

of error to the Supreme Court of the United States, and assigns
for error:" [Here followed the assignment of errors.]
Thereupon the Circuit Court entered this order:
"This cause came on to be heard upon the defendant's petition for the allowance of a writ of error to the Supreme Court
of the United States; on consideration whereof, and it being
known to the court that the facts stated in said petition with
reference to the writ of error formerly allowed to the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Sixth Circuit are true, and
it being doubtful whether a writ of error should be taken to
the Supreme Court of the United States or to the United States
Circuit Court of Appeals, said petition is now granted and a
writ of error, as prayed, is allowed to the Supreme Court of
the United States."
The cases came on to be heard and were argued and submitted
together.
Jl'r. Lawrence 3faxwell, Jr., for plaintiff in error in Nos. 259
and 271.
Jlr. tTarlan Cleveland and .Mr. Carles X. Cist for defendant in error in No. 259. -Xr.Edgar W. Cist was on their brief.
Xrl. HarlanCleveland, Mr. Charles X. Cist and M
Tr. Edgar W.
Cist for defendant in error in No. 271.
-MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER delivered the opinion of the court.

When our jurisdiction is invoked under section 5 of the judiciary act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, on the ground that the case
falls within the fourth, fifth or sixth of the classes of cases
therein enumerated, it must appear that a title, right, privilege
or immunity was claimed under the Constitution, and a definite
issue in respect to the possession of the right must be distinctly
deducible from the record ; or that the constitutionality of the
particular law or the validity or construction of the particular
treaty was necessarily and directly drawn in question; or that
the constitution or law of a State was distinctly claimed to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1'899.
Opinion of the Court.

in contravention of the Constitution of the United States; and
it is not sufficient that the point is raised in the assignment of
errors. Ansbro v. United States, 159 U. S. 695; Cornell v.
Green, 163 U. S. 75; Xuse v. Arlington Hotel Company, 168
U. S. 430; Miller v. Cornwall Railroad,168 U. S. 131.
The certificate shows that no question as to the constitutionality of the statute of Indiana, relied on by the plaintiff below,
was raised or considered or decided in the Circuit Court, but
that the objection made its appearance for the first time in the
assignment of errors in the Circuit Court of Appeals.
In Carter v. Roberts, ante, p. 496, it was held that when cases
arise which are controlled by the construction or application of
the Constitution of the United States, a direct appeal lies to
this court, and if such cases are carried to the Circuit Courts of
Appeals, those courts may decline to take jurisdiction; or,
where such construction or application is involved with other
questions, may dertify the constitutional question and afterwards proceed to judgment; or may decide the whole case in
the first instance. But when the Circuit Court of Appeals has
acted on the whole case, its judgment stands unless revised by
certiorari to or appeal from that court in accordance with the
act of March 3, 1891. Robinson v. Caldwell, 165 U. S. 359 ;
Holt v. IndianaManufacturing Company, 176 U. S. 68; United
States v. Jahn, 155 U. S. 109; New Orleans v. Benjamin, 153
U. S. 411; Benjamin v. New Orleans, 169 U. S. 161.
The third question propounded in the certificate must be answered in the negative, and we do not deem it necessary to answer the others.
The writ of error in No. 271 was brought while the case was
pending in the Circuit Court of Appeals on writ of error from
that court. The whole case was open on each writ for review
on the merits.
In Columbus Construction Company v. Crane Company, 174
U. S. 600, it was laid down that the act of March 3, 1891, does
not contemplate several separate appeals or writs of error, on
the merits, in the same case and at the same time to or from
two appellate courts; and as the record disclosed in that case
that two writs of error to the judgment of the Circuit Court

LEOVY v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

were pending, one in the Circuit Court of Appeals and the other
and subsequent writ in this court, the latter was dismissed.
The writ of error in No. 271 falls within this rule.
The third question pro)ounded in Nfo. 259 is answered in the
negative.
The writ of error in No. 271 is dismissed.
and MR. JUSTICE WHITE were not present at the argument and took no part in the decision.
AIR. JUSTICE HARLAN

LEOVY v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 238. Argued April 12, 16, 1900.-Decided May 14, 1900.

Subject to the paramount jurisdiction of Congress over the navigable waters of the United States, the State of Louisiana had, under the act of
March 2, 1849, c. 87, and the other statutes referred to in the opinion of
the court, full power to authorize the construction and maintenance of
levees, drains and other structures necessary and suitable to reclaim
swamp and overflowed lands within its limits.
The dam constructed by the plaintiff in error at Red Pass was constructed
under the police power of the State, and within the terms and purpose
of the grant by Congress.
The decision of the jury, to whom it had been left to determine whether
the plaintiff in error was guilty, that the pass was in fact navigable, is
not binding upon this court.
The term navigable waters of the United States has reference to commerce
of a substantial and permanent character to be conducted thereon.
The defendant below was entitled to the instruction asked for, but refused,
that the jury should be satisfied from the evidence that Red Pass was,
at the time it was closed, substantially useful to some purpose of interstate commerce, as alleged'in the indictment.
Upon the record now before the court it is held that Red Pass, in the condition it was when the dam was built, was not shown by adequate evidence to have been a navigable water of the United States, actually used
in interstate commerce, and that the court should have charged the jury,
as requested; that upon the whole evidence adduced, the defendants
were entitled to a verdict of acquittal.

