OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

MINNEAPOLIS AND ST. LOUIS RAILWAY COMPANY
v. GARDNER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA.
No. 160. Submitted March 5, 1900.-Decided April 9, 1900.
There is no substantial difference between the Federal question in this case
raised in the Supreme Court of Minnesota, and that raised in it here.
The act of Minnesota of March 2, 1881, c. 113, authorizing the consolidation
of several railroad companies created a new corporation, upon which it
conferred the franchises, exemptions and immunities of the constituent
companies; but that did not include an exemption of stockholders in the
old companies from the payment of corporate debts, Or their liability to
pay them.
In a State having a constitutional provision imposing liability on stockholders, if the legislature intended those of a new corporation created by
it should be exempt, it would express the intention directly, and not
commit it to disputable inference from provisions which apply by name
to the corporation.

ON the merits, this case presents the question of the liability
of the, individual plaintiffs in error upon a judgment which was
recovered by one Revilo F. Parshall against the Minneapolis
and St. Paul Railway Company, and assigned to the defendant
in error.
A motion, however, is made to dismiss, on the ground that
this court has no jurisdiction.
The Minnesota Western Railway was incorporated by the
Territory of Minnesota, by an act of its legislature, approved
March 3, 1853. The usual powers of a corporation were con-.
ferred, and the company was authorized to construct a railroad
from and to certain points in the Territory.
Power was reserved to alter or amend the act. There was
no provision fixing the liability of stockholders. The act was
several times amended changing the route of the road in some
particulars.
In 1858 the State of Minnesota was admitted into the Union,
and its constitution contained the following provision: "Each

MINNEAPOLIS & ST. LOUIS RY. CO. v. GARDNER.

333

Statement of the Case.

stockholder in any corporation shall be liable to the amount of
stock held or owned by him." Art. 10, sec. 3.
It was amended in 1872 so as to except the stockholders of
corporations organized for carrying on any kind of manufacturing or mechanical business.
On February 4,1870, the provision of the act of 1853, reserving the right to alter or amend the act was repealed.
After the passage of the act of 1870 the company changed
its name to the Minneapolis and St. Louis Railway Company.
No steps were taken towards construction or acquiring any
line of railroad until 1869. The actual construction was commenced during the fall of 1870, since which time the said company or the consolidated company, hereafter mentioned, has
operated and maintained a line of railway in the State.
By an act approved March 2, 1881, in addition to other powers
conferred, the Minneapolis and St. Louis Railway Company,
and any other railway companies in the construction of whose
lines it has aided, or whose lines were at the time held under
lease by it, were authorized to consolidate. The act provided
for the manner of consolidation, the nanie of the new corporation which might be "the name of either corporation party
thereto or any other name "-the transfer of the properties of
the old corporations, the retirement of their stock and the issue
of new, and defined the purposes and powers of the new corporation. It is inserted in the margin.'
1Chapter 113, Special Laws 1881, p. 651.
An act to amend an act entitled An act to amend an act entitled An act
to incorporate the Minnesota Western Railroad Company, approved
March third (3d,) one thousand eight hundred Fnd fifty-three, (1853,)
and the acts amendatory thereof, approved February fourth, one thousand eight hundred and seventy (1870J.
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Minnesota: SECTIoN 1. That
the act entitled An act to amend an act entitled An act to incorporate the
Minnesota Western Railroad Company, approved March third (3d), one
thousand eight hundred and fifty-three (1853), and the acts amendatory
thereof, approved February fourth (4th), one thousand eight hundred and
seventy (1870), be amended by adding thereto the following sections, to
wit:
. SECTION EIGHT. The Minneapolis and St. Louis Railway
Company, form3rly known as the Minnesota Western Railroad Company, in addition

334

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

The consolidation was made'as provided in the act by agreement between the Minneapolis Railway Company, the Minneto the powers already conferred upon it by the laws of the Terfitory of
Minnesota and of the State of Minnesota, is hereby authorized to make or
acquire, from time to time, any extension of the lines of railway now owned
and operated by it, or of those hereafter constructed and operated by it according to law, into the States of Iowa, Missouri, Kansas, Nebraska and
Wisconsin, and into the Territory of Dakota. or into one or more of the
same. Provided, That authority shall exist or be given in or by the States
or Territory into which its lines are so extended, to make or acquire and
.maintain such extensions.
SECTION NINE (9). The said Minneapolis and St. Louis Railway Company
shall have power to acquire, from time to time, by lease or purchase, or exchange of stock or otherwise, any other railroad or railroads, whether
within or without this State, whose lines connect with its own lines as they
now exist or as they shall be extended, either directly or by means of intervening lines. Such acquisition shall be made upon such terms ag shall be
agreed upon by a contract in writing between the respective corporations.
But the same shall not be consummated until first approved by two-thirds
in amount of the stockholders of each such corporation, either given at a
regular or called meeting of such stockholders, or by a consent expressed
in writing. In either case a copy of such contract, together with the evidence of such consent of the stockholders, shall be filed in the office of the
secretary of State.
'SECTION TFN (10). It sall and may be lawful for the said Minneapolis
and St. Louis Railway Company to merge and consolidate its capital, franchises and property with the capital stock, franchises and property of any
other railroad company or companies organized under the laws of this State
or under the laws of any other State or Territory of the United States, in
the construction of whose lines the said Minneapolis and St. Louis Railway
Company shall have aided, or whose lines of railway are or shall, at the
time of such consolidation, be held under lease by the said Minneapolis and
St. Louis Railway (ompany; Provided, That the lines of railway of the
companies or corporations so consolidating shall form a continuous line of
railway with each other, or by means of any intervening railway, bridge or
ferry. But no such consolidation shall be Miade by the said company with
any other railroad corporation, or the lessees, purchaser or manager of any
railroad corporation owning or controlling a parallel or competing line.
Such consolidations shall be made undei the conditions, provisions and
restrictions and with the powers hereinafter mentioned and contained, that
is to say:
First (1st). The directors of the company proposing to consolidate may
enter into a joint agreement, under the corporate seal of each company, for
the consolidation of said companies and railroads, which agreement shall
prescribe the terms and conditions thereof, and the mode of carrying the

MINNEAPOLIS & ST. LOUIS RY. CO. v. GARDNER.

335

Statement of the Case.

apolis and Duluth Railroad Company, the Minnesota and Iowa
Railroad Company,- and the Fort Dodge and Fort Ridgely
same into effect; the name of the new corporation, which may be the name
of either corporation party thereto, or any other name; the number, names
and places of residence of the directors and other officers thereof, who shall
be the directors and officers thereof for the first (1st) year. The amount
of the-capital stock of the new company, which shall not exceed the amount
of twenty million (20,000,000) dollars, the number of shares into which such
capital stock is to be divided (which stock may be divided into classes, with
such preferences in respect to any of the classes as may be agreed upon),
the amount or par value of each share; the manner of converting or exchanging the capital stock of each of the said companies so consolidating
into or for that of the new corporation and the terms of such conversion,
the manner of compensating stockholders in each of the old corporations
who decline to convert their stock into the stock of the new corporation;
and how and when directors and officers shall be chosen, with such other
details as they shall deem necessary to perfect such new organization and
the consolidation of such companies or railroads.
Second (2d). Such agreement of the directors shall not be deemed to be
the agreement of the said old corporations until after it has been submitted
to the stoskholders of each of the said corporations, separately, at a meeting thereof, to be called upon a notice of at least thirty (30) days, specifying
the time and place of such meeting and the object thereof, to be addressed
to each of such stockholders when their place of residence is known, and
deposited in the post office, and published at least three (3) successive
weeks in one newspaper in each of the cities, counties or towns in which
the said corporations have their principal office or business, and is sanctioned by such stockholders by a vote of at least two-thirds in amount of
the stockholders present at such meeting, either in person or by proxy, each
share of the capital stock being entitled to one vote; and when such agree-,
ment of the directors is so sanctioned by each of the meetings of the stockholders, separately, it shall be deemed the agreement of the said old corporations.
Third (3d). If the holder of any stock in either of the corporations existing
under the laws of this State and so consolidated at the time of making such
consolidation, shall be dissatisfied with the same, the consolidated company
shall pay to such dissatisfied stockholder or stockholders the full actual
value of his or their stock immediately prior to such consolidation, which
value shall be assessed and fixed by three disinterested commissioners,.
appointed for that purpose by the Supreme Court of this State, upon the
application of either party, made upon twenty (20) days' notice, but the said
company shall not be compelled to pay for the stocks of such dissatisfied
stockholder or stockholders unless he or they shall give written notice of
such dissatisfaction to the president, secretary or treasurer of the company
whose stock shall be held by him or them, within three (3) months after

336

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

Railroad Company, and articles of incorporation were duly filed
in pursuance of the act.
such consolidation shall have been consented to by the requisite number of
stockholders.
SECTION ELEVEN (11). Upon the approval of such agreement and act of
consolidation as hereinbefore provided, and upon the filing of the same or
a copy thereof, in the office of the secretary of State, the said corporations,
parties thereto, shall be deemed and taken to be one corporation, by the
name provided in the said agreement and act, and the stock of the new
corporation issued under the terms of such agreement and act of consolidation in exchange for the stock of the former companies, shall be deemed
and taken as lawful stock, and subject only to such further payments, calls
or assessments, if any, asmay be mentioned in the said consolidation agreement, and such new corporation shall possess all the powers, rights and
franchises conferred upon each of its constituent corporations, and shall be
subject to all the restrictions and duties imposed by the laws of the State.
SECTION TWELVE (12). Upon the consummation of said act of consolidation as aforesaid, all and singular the rights, privileges, exemptions and
franchises of each of said corporations parties to the same, and all the
property, real, personal and mixed, and all the debts due on whatever account to either of said corporations, as wellas all the stock, subscriptions
and other things in action belonging to either of said corporations, shall be
taken and deemed to be transferred to, and vested in such new corporation
without further act or deed, and all claims, demands, property, rights of
way, and every other interest shall be as effectually the property of the new
corporation as they were of the former corporations parties to the said
agreement and act, and the title to all real estate, taken by deed or otherwise under the laws of this State, vested in either of said corporations,
parties to said agreement and act,- shall not be deemed to revert or be in
any way impaired by reason of this act, or anything done by virtue thereof,
but shall be vested in the new corporation by virtue of such act of consolidation.
SECTION THIRTEEN (13). The rights of all creditors of and all the holders of
liens upon the prQperty of either of said corporations parties to said agreement and act, shall remain and be preserved unimpaired, and shall be
assumed and borne by the new corporation, and the respective corporations
shall be deemed to continue in existence so far as necessary to preserve the
same, and all debts and liabilities'incurred by'either of said corporations shall
thenceforth attach to such new corporation and be enforced against it and
its property to the same extent as if said debts or liabilitie9 had been originally incurred or contracted by it. No suit or action or other proceeding
now pending before any court or tribunal in which either of said railroad
companies is a party, shall be deemed to have abated or been discontinued
by the agreement and act of consolidation as aforesaid, but the same may
be conducted in the name of the existing corporation to final judgment, or

MINNEAPOLIS & ST. LOUIS RY. CO. v. GARDNER.

337

Statement of the Case.

The consolidated company thereafter entered upon and until
the 2d of November, 1894, enjoyed the franchises, rights, property and earnings of the constituent corporations.
The Minneapolis and Duluth Railroad Company was a Minnesota corporation, and the Fort Dodge and Fort Ridgely Railroad Company and the Minnesota and Iowa Southern Railroad
Company were Iowa corporations; and the laws of the State of
Iowa authorized the incorporators of railroad companies to exempt themselves from personal liability for the corporate debts,
by embodying in the articles of incorporation an article or provision declaring the exemption. This was done.
On and prior to June 28, 1888, the Minneapolis and St. Louis
Railway Company executed three mortgages, one of which was
to the Central Trust Company of New York, dated June 1,1881,
to secure outstanding bonds, of the aggregate par value of
$1,382,000, together with interest thereon, at the rate of six
per cent. per annum.
This mortgage was duly foreclosed, and the railroad properties, rights and franchises covered by it duly sold, and the title
confirmd by final decree to the assignee of the purchaser.
The defendant in error was a judgment creditor of the Consolidated Company, being assignee of a judgment recovered by
such new corporation may be, by order of the court, on motion, substituted
as a party; suits may be brought and maintained against such new corporation for all causes of action in the same manner as against other railroad corporations in this State.
SECTION FOURTEEN (14). All the provisions of the general laws of this
State, in regard to railroad corporations, shall be applicable to any new
corporations formed by consolidation under the provisions of this act, except
so far as the same shall not be applicable thereto by reason of the situation
of portions of its line without this State. Provided,that, nevertheless, the
privileges, franchises, exemptions, immunities, hitherto granted to the Minneapolis and St. Louis Railway Company shall continue to and be vested in
such new corporation with the same effect as if originally granted thereto,
and that such new corporation may at any time hereafter bo consolidated
with any other railroad company or companies in the same manner and
with the same effect as is by this act provided.
SECTION Two. This act shall take effect and be in force from and after
its passage.
Approved this second day of March, A. D. 1881.

VOL. CLXXVii-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

R. F. Parshall, in, the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Minnesota, for personal injuries received by him
from the railway company.
The individual plaintiffs in error were shareholders of that
company, and each acquired his stock between November, 1884,
and the date of the commencement of this suit, but was not a
shareholder of either of the companies which formed the Consolidated Company.
The answer of the individual defendants denied liability under
the. constitution and laws of the State of Minnesota, alleged the
incorporation of the Minneapolis and St. Louis Railway Company prior to the adoption of the constitution and statutes, and
that it was incorporated in the year 1853, under and pursuant
to the provisions of chapter 66 of the Special Laws enacted by
the legislature of the Territory of Minnesota, under and by the
name of the Minnesota Western Railroad Company, which name
was subsequently changed to the Minneapolis and St. Louis Railway Company, substantially as set forth in the first division of
the complaint; that the liability of the stockholders of said
Minnesota and St. Louis Railway Company was fixed by said
act of incorporation, and not otherwise; and that the constitutional provision and laws referred to in the complaint are not
applicable to or binding upon these defendants in that behalf.
The trial court rendered judgment for the defendant in error,
which was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State, .73
Minnesota, 517, and this writ of error was sued out.
On the appeal to the Supreme Court of the State it was assigned
as error, among others, that the trial court erred in holding that
the state constitution if applied to the defendant railway company did not violate section 10, article 1, of the Constitution of
the United States in that the provisions of section 3, article 10,
impaired the obligation of the charter contract contained in
chapter 66, Laws of 1853, Territory of Minnesota. Also in
holding that the constitutional provision of the State, if applied
to defendant in error, is not in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution of the United States, in that the
State by and through the provisions of section 3, article 10, as-

MINNEAPOLIS & ST. LOUIS RY. CO. v. GARDNER.

339

Counsel for Parties.

sumed to impair and destroy rights theretofore vested in the
defendants (plaintiffs in error).
Also in holding that-the defendant railway company was not
created until the passage of the act of 1881, that the legislature
intended by the act to create or did in fact create a new corporation, or intended to or did abridge or modify the rights, privileges
or immunities theretofore possessed by the Minneapolis and St.
Louis Railway Company; or if a new corporate entity was
created that it did not possess such rights, privileges and immunities, including the exemption from double liability upon its
stock created by the act of 1853, and also possessed by the other
constituent cbrporations of the consolidation.
The assignments of error in this court claim that the Supreme
Court of the State held, and erred in holding, the constitutional
provision imposing liability on stockholders valid against plaintiffs in error, and not to be in violation of the contract created
by the act of 1853, the benefits of which act were vested, continued and perpetuated in the plaintiffs in error by the act of
1881, and not to be in violation of that provision of the Constitution of the United States, which prohibits any State from
impairing the obligations of a contract, and not in violation of
the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States, in that it assumes to impair and destroy rights vested by
the act of 1853 and the act of 1881.
It is also claimed that the court held, and erred in holding,
that the constitution of the State if enforced against plaintiffs
in error was not in violation of section 10, article 1, of the Constitution of the United States, and did not impair the obligations of the contract between the State and plaintiffs in error,
embodied in the act of 1881.
Also that the consolidation of the several railroad corporations pursuant to the act of 1881 created a new corporation.
J r. William Strauss for plaintiffs in error. Mr. Albert E.
Clarke, M~r. 1Y. T. Dudley and Mr. L. T. Michener were on
his brief.
MrT&. F. W. X. Cutcheon for defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE MOKENNA,

after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
To sustain the motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction,
the defendant in error contends that the Federal question
raised here was not that raised in the court below, and therefore cannot be entertained, and that besides there was a question not Federal decided by the court sufficient to support its
judgment.
(1.) No right under the Constitution of the United States
was claimed in the answer. But the protection of section 10,
article 1, and the Fourteenth Amendment of that instrument,
was invoked in the assignment of errors on appeal to the Supreme Court and urged upon its consideration. It is true they
claimed the law of 1853 as the contract and not explicitly that
of 1881. But they also claimed that the act of 1881 did not
create a new corporation, and whether it did or not, that the
act continued the immunity from liability for the. corporate
debts to the stock and stockholders of the consolidated corporation. We think this makes substantial identity between
the Federal question in the Supreme Court of the State and in
this court.
(2.) *But it is said the state court did not decide the Federal
question, but decided that the act of 1881 created a new corporation, which became subject to the constitutional provision
imposing liability upon stockholders for corporate debts, and
that the court rested its judgment on that construction. The
court said: "Whatever may be the liability o? the several
(constituent) corporations we need not inquire, because the
liability here sought to be enforced is one against individuals
who have been and are stockholders in the new corporation."
And again: "Other questions have been raised and discussed
by the respective counsel, but a decision upon them by this
court in this action is entirely unnecessary, and we express no
opinion thereon." This was in effect to deny 'the existence of
the contract claimed by plaintiffs in error. But it is the duty
of this court to decide for itself tlme fact of contract and its
impairment, and the motion to dismiss must, therefore, be
denied.

MINNEAPOLIS & ST. LOUIS RY. CO. v. GARDNER.

341

Opinion of the Court.

The territorial act of 1853 by which the Minnesota Western
Railroad was incorporated is claimed primarily to be the contract which is impaired. It gave immunity to the stockholders
of that company from liability for the corporate debts, or rather
did not impose such liability. It is claimed that the constitution of the State of 1858 violated this contract. It imposes liability upon each shareholder of any corporation to the amount
of stock held or owned by him. It is self-executing. Willis v.
Jabon,48 Minnesota, 140.
The act of 1881 is also claimed as a contract which became
binding on the State by the acceptance of its provisions by the
several railr6ad companies, and is impaired by the application
of the constitution of the State.
If the Minnesota Western Railroad or its stockholders, or any
of the other railroad companies or their stockholders, were parties to this suit, the questions presented would be simpler. But
neither of the companies is party to the suit nor are the stockholders parties. Their rights are asserted to be transferred to
the plaintiffs in error by virtue of the act of 1881.
The argument is that prior to the adoption of the state constitution the stockholders of the original corporation created by
the act of 1853 were exempt from personal liability for corporate indebtedness; that prior to consolidation, under the act of
1881, the stockholders of the constituent companies were also
exempt. It is hence contended that it is immaterial whether
the Minneapolis Railroad Company is the original of that name
chartered by the act of 1853, or a new corporation created by
the consolidation. If it is identical, it is argued, with the original company its stockholders are exempt, because its charter
contract is older than the constitution of the State. " If it is a
new company its stockholders are nevertheless exempt, -because
it is the settled law in Minnesota that its legislature may transmit existing franchises, immunities and exemptions vested in
one corporation to a new corporation, although it could not
grant new franchises of the same class to such corporation.
And that the legislature has exercised this power and specifically vegted in the consolidated company, ftrst, all the franchises,
privileges and immunities of each of the constituent companies,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

and, 8econd, the particular privileges, exemptions and immunities granted to the Minnesota Western Railroad Company.
We think that there is no doubt whatever that the act of 1881
created a new corporation. It is so designated, not only expressly but by distinction from the old corporations. The original Minneapolis and St. Louis Railway Company was given
power (section 9) to acquire by lease or purchase other railroad
lines or consolidate with certain other railroads. (Section 10.)
It chose the latter, and the conditions of the consolidation are
prescribed. The consolidation is to be accomplished by an agreement of the directors of the companies proposing to consolidate,
and the agreement is to provide the terms and mode of carrying
the same into effect, the name of. the new corporation, which
may be the name of either corporation party thereto, or any
other name," the number., namqs and residences of the directors
and other officers, the amount of capital stock and the number
of shares into which it is to be divided, and the classes and par
value, the manner of converting the stock of the consolidating
companies into that of the new corporation, and the manner of
compensating the stockholders of the old corporations who declined to convert their stock into the stock of the new corporation, and many other details.
Section 11 is as follows:
"Upon the approval of such agreement and act of consolidation, as hereinbefore provided, and upon the filing of the same,
or a copy thereof, in the office of the secretary of State, the said
corporations, parties thereto, shall be deemed and taken to be
one corporation, by the name provided in the said agreement
and act, and the stock of the new corporation issued under the
terms of such agreement and act of consolidation in exchangQ
for the stock of the former companies, shall be deemed and
taken as lawful stock, and subject only to such further payments, calls or assessments, if any, as may be mentioned in the
said consolidation agreement, and such new corporation shall
possess all the powers, rights and franchises conferred upon
each of its constituent corporations, and shall be subject to all
the restrictions and duties imposed by the laws of the State."
There can be no doubt, therefore, that a new corporation

MINNEAPOLIS & ST. LOUIS RY. CO. v.GARDNER. 343
Opinion of the Court.

was created with new stockholders, and the case is brought in
close similarity to Shields v. Ohio, 95 U. S. 319. In that case
as in this there was a consolidation of railroad companies, and
it was held a new corporation was formed. In that case as
in this one of the companies claimed a special right under its
charter (the right to charge such tolls as it might deem "reasonable,") and its transmission to the new corporation by the
provision of the act authorizing consolidation, which declared:
"And such new corporation shall possess all the powers, rights
and franchises conferred upon such two or more corporations
by the several acts incorporating the same, or relating thereto
respectively, and shall be subject to all the duties imposed by
such acts, so far as the same may be consistent with the provisions of this act."
The claim was rejected. Mr. Justice Swayne, speaking for
the court, said:
"The legislature had provided for the consolidation. In each
case before it took place the original companies existed, and
were independent of each other. It could not occur without
their consent. The consolidated company had then no existence. It could have none while the original corporation subsisted. All the old and the new could not co-exist. It was a
condition precedent to the existence of the new corporation
that the old ones should first surrender their vitality and submitio dissolution. That being done, eo instanti the new corporation came into existence. But the franchise alone to be a
corporation would have been unavailing for the purposes in
view.
"There is a material difference between such an artificial
creation and a natural person. The latter can do anything not
forbidden by law. The former can do only what is authorized
by its charter. Railroad Company v. Harris,12 Wall. 65. It
was, therefore, indispensable that other powers and franchises
should lie given. This was carefully provided for. The new
organization took the powers and faculties designated in advance in the acts authorizing the consolidation-no more and
no less. It did not acquire anything by mere transmission. It
took everything by creation and grant. The language was

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

brief, and it was made operative by reference. But this did
not affect the legal result. A deed inter pares may be made
as effectual by referring to a description elsewhere as by reciting
it in full in the present instrument. The consequence is the
same in both cases."
In the case at bar, however, the grant to the new corporation
is claimed to be not only of the franchises of the constituent
companies, but of their "exemptions "-not only of the franchises of the original Minnesota and St. Louis Railway Company, but of its "exemptions and immunities." But what franchises, exemptions and immunities ? The designation is definite
-those of "each of said corporations," those "hitherto granted
to the Minneapolis and St. Louis Railway Company "-not those
of or those granted to the stockholders of either company. And
the distinction must' be observed-the distinction between a corporation and its stockholders. It is made in many cases. This
court has recognized it for the purposes of taxation. To judge
of the intention of the legislature, whdther it is in accordance
with or against the policy and provisions of the constitution of
the State, the distinction ought to be recognized. The exemption of 'stockholders from the payment of corporate debts or
their liability to pay them, (individual liability,) is the concern
of the stockholders and the corporate creditors.
We do not mean to say that such an exemption may not be
:secured by the charter of a corporation and protected to its
stockholders by the Constitution of the United States from impairment by subsequent state legislation. But we do mean to
say that in a State having a constitutional provision imposing
liability on-stockholders, if the legislature intended that those of
a new corporation created by it should be exempt it would express the intention directly, and not commit it to disputable
inference from provisions which apply by name to the corporation.
The question is as to the intention of the legislature, and in
ascertaining that intention it must be remembered that the act
of 1853 did not grant immunity to the stockholders of the Minnesota Western Railroad from liability. The immunity resulted because liability was not imposed, and this legal right of

MINNEAPOLIS & ST. LOUIS RY. CO. v. GARDNER.

345

Opinion of the Court.

the stockholders of that corporation, we do not think, can be
said to have been transmitted to the stockholders of the new
corporation created by the act of 1881 by the grant to it of
the "immunities heretofore granted to the Minneapolis and St.
Louis Railway Company."
Besides, the grant of power to the new corporation had adequate purpose. As was said in Bhield8 v. Ohio, szpra, powers'
and faculties were necessary to be bestowed upon the new organization, and this could be done directly, as it was to a great
extent, or by reference, and would be supposed to be done in
subordination to constitutional restrictions. Nor does the provision of section 14, which makes the new corporation subject
to the general laws of the State, except as to the privileges,
franchises, exemptions and immunities hitherto granted to*the
Minnesota and St. Louis Railway Company, conflict with the
supposition. That provision had its explanation in the previous
laws applying to that company. After its incorporation in
1853 the Minnesota Western did nothing, and nothing was done
in pursuance of the purpose of its incorporation until after the
act of 1870, authorizing a change of its name to the Minnesota
and St. Louis Railway Company. That act gave it new powers,
authorized the creation and issuance of different classes of stock,
and provided a means of taxation, and exempted it from all
other taxation. But it is not necessary to extend the discussion
farther.
We have not deemed it necessary to consider the effect of the
constitutional provision as an amendment to the act of 1853, or
the power of the legislature to pass the act of 1881 if. it could
be construed as contended for by plaintiffs in error. We construe it differently, and determine against their contention. In
other words, we hold that the legislature did not intend by the
act of 1881 to give immunity to the stockholders of the new
corporation from the liability imposed by the constftution ,of
the State.
Judgment aflirmed.

