214

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
Syllabus.

343 U. S.

RAY, CHAIRMAN OF THE STATE DEMOCRATIC
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF
ALABAMA, v. BLAIR.
CERTIORARI TO T-HE SUPREME COURT OF ALABAMA.

No. 649.

Argued

March 31, 1952.-Decided April 3,
Opinions filed April 15,: 1952.

1952.-

Where a state authorizes a political party to choose its nominees for
Presidential Electors in a state-controlled party primary election
and to fix the qualifications for the candidates, it is not violative
of the Federal Constitution for the party to require the candidates
for the office of Presidential Elector to take a pledge to support
the "nominees of the party's National Convention for President
,and Vice-President or for the party's officers to refuse to certify
as a candidate for Presidential Elector a person otherwise qualified
who refuses to take such a pledge. Pp. 215-231.
1. Presidential Electors exercise a federal function in balloting
for President and Vice-President, but they are not federal officers.
They act by authority of the state which in turn receives its authority from the Federal Constitution. Pp. 224-225.
2. Exclusion of a candidate in a party primary by a state or
political party because such candidate will not pledge to support
the party's nominees is a method of securing party candidates in
the general election who are pledged to the .ph:losophy and leadership of that party; and it is an exercise of the state's right under
Art. II; § 1, to appoint electors in such manner as it may choose.
United States v. Classic, 313 U. S. 299, and Smith v. Allwright, 321
U. S. 649, distinguished. Pp. 225-227.
3 The Twelfth .Amendment does not bar a political party from
requiring of a candidate for Presidential Elector in its primary a
pledge to support the nominees of its National Convention. Pp.
228-231.
4..The requirement of such a pledge does not deny equal protection or due process under the Fourteenth Amendment. Nixon
v. Herndon, 273 U. S.536, distinguished. P. 226, n. 14.
257 Ala. -,
57 So. 2d 395, reversed.

The Alabama Supreme Court upheld, on federal constitutional grounds, a peremptory writ of mandamus requiring petitioner, the Chairman of the State Executive

-

RAY v. BLAIR.
214

Opinion of the Court.

Committee of the Democratic Party, to certify respondent
as a candidate for Presidential Elector in: a Democratic
Primary which was to be held on May 6, 1952. 257 Ala.
•

57 So. 2d 395.

This Court granted certiorari.

343

U. S. 901. In a per curiam decision announced on April
3, 1952, in advance of the preparation of this opinion, this
* Court reversed that judgment. 343 U. S. 154. This opinion states the reasons for that decision.
Marx Leva and Harold M. Cook argued the cause for
petitioner. With them on the brief were James J. Mayfield, George A. LeMaistre and Louis F. Oberdorfer.
Horace C. Wilkinson argued the cause and filed a brief
for respondent.
delivered the opinion of the Court.
The Supreme Court of Alabama upheld a peremptory
writ of mandamus requiring the petitioner, the chairman
of that state's Executive Committee of the Democratic.
Party, to certify respondent Edmund Blair, a member of
that party; to the Secretary of State of Alabama as a candidate for Presidential Elector in the Democratic Primary
to be held May 6,1952. Respondent Blair was admittedly
qualified as a candidate except that he refused to include
the following quoted words in the pledge required of party
candidates-a pledge to aid and support "the nominees
of the National Convention of the Democratic Party for
President and Vice-President of the United States." The
chairman's refusal of certification was based on that
omission.
The mandamus was approved on the sole ground that
the above requirement restricted the freedom of a federal
elector to vote in his Electoral College for his choice for
MR.

JUSTICE REED

President.

257 Ala. -,

57 So. 2d 395.

The pledge was

held void as unconstitutional under the Twelfth Amend-

216

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
Opinion of the Court.

343 U. S.

ment of the Constitution of the United States.1 Because
the mandamus was based on this federal right specially
claimed by respondent, we granted certiorari. 28 U. S. C.
§ 1257 (3); 343 U.S. 901.
On account of the limited time before the primary election date, this Court ordered prompt argument on March
31, 1952, after granting certiorari and handed down a per
curiam decision on April 3,343 U. S.154, stating summarily our conclusion on the federal constitutional issue
that determined the Alabama judgment. This opinion
is to supplement that statement. Our mandate issued
forthwith.
The controversy arose under the Alabama laws permitting party primaries. Title 17 of the Code of Alabama, 1940, as. amended, provides for regular optional
primary elections in that state on the first Tuesday in
May of even years by any political party, as defined in the
U. S. Const., Amend. XII:
"The Electors shall meet in their respective states, and vote by
ballot for President and Vice-President, one of whom, at least, shall
not be an inhabitant of. the same state with- themselves; they shall
name in their ballots the person voted for as President, and in distinct ballots the person voted for as Vice-President, and they shall
make distinct lists of all persons voted for as President, and of all
persons voted for as Vice-President, and of the number of votes for
each, which lists they shall sign and certify, and transmit gealed
to the seat of the government of the United States, directed to the
President of the Senate ;-The President of the Senate shall, in the
presence of the Senate and House of Representatives, open all the
certificates and the votes shall then be counted ;-The person having
the greatest number of votes for President, shall be the President,
if such number be a majority of the whole number of Electors appointed; and if no person have such majority, then from the persons
having the highest numbers not exceeding three on the list of those
voted for as President, the House of Representatives shall choose
immediately, by ballot, the President. ....

RAY v. BLAIR.
214

Opinion of the Court.

chapter, at state cost. §§ 336, 337, 340, 343. They are
subject to the same penalties and punishment provisions
as regular state elections. § 339. Parties may select
their own committee in such manner as the governing
authority of the party may desire. § 341. Section 344
provides that the chairman of the state executive committee shall certify the candidates other than those who
are candidates for county offices to the Secretary of State
of Alabama. That official, within not less than 30 days
prior to the time of holding the primary elections, shall
certify these names to the probate judge of any county
holding an election.
Every state executive committee is given the power
to fix political or other qualifications of its own members.
It may determine who shall be entitled and qualified to
vote in the primary election or to be a candidate therein.
2
The qualifications of voters and candidates may vary.
Section 348 requires a candidate to file his declaration
of candidacy with the executive committee in the form
prescribed by the governing body of the party. There is
a provision, § 350, which reads as follows: "At the bottom
of the ballot and after the name of the last candidate shall
2

Ala. Code, 1940, Tit. 17, § 347:

"All persons who are qualified electors under the general laws of
the State of Alabama, and who are also members of a political party
entitled to participate in such primary election, shall be entitled
to vote therein and shall receive the official primary ballot of that
political party, and no other; but every state executive committee
of a party shall have the right, power and authority to fix and prescribe the political or other qualifications of its own members, and
shall, in its own way, declare and determine who shall be entitled
and qualified to vote in such primary election, or to be candidates
therein, or to otherwise participate in such political parties and
primaries; and the. qualifications of electors entitled to vote in such
primary election shall not necessarily be the same as the qualifications
for electors entitled to become candidates therein; ....
"

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
Opinion of the Court.

343 U. S.

be printed the following, viz: 'By casting this ballot I do
pledge myself to abide by the result of this primary election and to aid and support all the nominees thereof in
the ensuing general election.'"
On consideration of these sections in other cases the
Supreme Court of Alabama has reached conclusions generally conformable to the current of authority. Section
.347 has been said by the Supreme Court of Alabama in
Ray v. Garner, 257 Ala. -,
57 So. 2d 824, 826, decided
March 27, 1952, to give full power to the state executive
committee to determine "who shall be entitled and qualified to vote in primary elections or be candidates or otherwise participate therein . . . just so such Committee
action does not run afoul of some statutory or constitutional provision."
The Garnercase involved a pledge adopted by the State
Democratic Executive Committee for printing on the primary ballot, reading as follows:
"By casting this ballot I do pledge myself to abide
by the result of this Primary Election and to aid and
support all the nominees thereof in the ensuing General Elections. I do further pledge myself to aid and
support the nominees of the National Convention of
the Democratic Party for President and Vice-President of the United States." 257 Ala., at -, 57 So.
2d, at 825.
This is substantially the same pledge that created the controversy in this present case. The court also called attention approvingly to Lett v. Dennis, 221 Ala. 432, 433,
129 So. 33, 34, a case that required a candidate in the primary to follow a party requirement and make a public
oath as to his vote in the past general election, where it
was declared "a test by a political organization of party
affiliation and party fealty is reasonable and proper to be
prescribed for those participating in its primary elections

RAY v. BLAIR.
214

Opinion of the Court.

for nomination of candidates for office." ' As to the power
to prescribe tests for participation in primary elections, it
was added in the Garnercase that "in Alabama this prerogative is vested in the State Party Executive Committee,
acting thi ough its duly elected or chosen members. Smith
v. McQueen, [232 Ala. 90, 166 So. 788]."'
257 Ala., at
-,
57 So. 2d, at 826. The McQueen case involved the
3 See Merriam and Overacker, Primary Elections (1928), pp. 69-73,
124, 125. Cf. State ex rel. Curyea v. Wells, 92 Neb. 337, 138 N. W.
165; Francis v. Sturgill, 163 Ky. 650, 174 S. W. 753.
4 This was not a unique delegation.
In 1928 Merriam and Overacker cited ten other states which delegate to the party authorities
the right to prescribe such qualifications, with or without a statutory
statement of minimum qualifications; these ten were Delaware, Idaho,
and the remainder of the "solid South," except North Carolina. See
Merriam and Overacker, supra, note 3, at pp. 72-73. In 1948
Penniman reports the continued existence of these delegations in
all these states except Idaho, which now apparently requires only
that the -candidate "represent the principles" of the party and be
duly registered in the appropriate precinct. 6 Idaho Code (BobbsMerrill; 1948) §§ 34-605, 34-606, 34-614. See Penniman, Sait's
American Parties and Elections (4th ed., 1948), p. 431. However,
the situation has changed in several of those states: the South Carolina legislature apparently no longer regulates the conduct of primaries at all, see S. C. Acts 1944, No. 810, p. 2323; and Texas and
Florida have repealed their election codes and enacted new ones
which appear to lack any comparable provision, see The New Election Code, Vernon's Annotated Texas Statutes Service (1951), effective January 1, 1952; Fla. Laws 1951, c. 26870. In both Texas and
Florida, the primary is open to party "members"; the extent to
which the party itself may prescribe membership qualifications is not
explicitly set forth. But cf. §§ 103.111 (3) and 103.121, Fla. Laws
1951, c. 26870.
For provisions in the remaining states bearing on this delegation,
see 2 Ark. Stat. Ann. (Bobbs-Merrill, 1948) § 3-205; 12 Ga. Code
Ann. (Harrison, 1936) § 34-3218.2; Va. Code, 1950 (Michie, 1949),
§§ 24-367, 24-369; 3 Miss. Code Ann., 1942 (Harrison, 1943), § 3129;
Del. Laws 1944-1945, c. 150, amending Del. Rev. Code, 1935, c. 58,
1782, § 14; La. Rev. Stat., 1950, Tit. 18, §§ 306, 309; La. Const. Ann.
(Bobbs-Merrill, 1932), Art. 8, § 4.

220

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
Opinion of the Court.

343 U. S.

selection of delegates to a national political convention.
It was also said in Ray v. Garner concerning the voter's
pledge that:
"Primarily, the pledge must be germane to party
membership and party elections and, while the last
clause of the pledge pertains to the national party,
the party in Alabama will be a part of it by sending
delegates to participate in the national convention,
the Executive Committee having ordered their election and the party thereby having signified its intention to become a member of the national party.
Therefore, it was within the competency of the Committee to adopt the resolution so binding the voters
in the primary."' 257 Ala., at-,
57 So. 2d, at 826.
As is well :known, political parties in the modern sense
were not born with the Republic. They were created by
necessity, by the need to organize the rapidly increasing
5Such a holding integrates the state and national party. See
Cannon's Democratic Manual (1948):
"The Democratic National Committee is 'the permanent agency
authorized to act in behalf of the Party during intervals between
Conventions. It is the creature of the National Convention and
therefore subordinate to its control and direction. Between Conventions the Committee exercises such powers and authority as have
been delegated specifically to it and is subject to the directions and
instructions imposed by the Convention which created it." P. 4.
"Duties and Powers of the'Committee
"The duties and powers of the National Committee are derived
from the Convention creating it, and while subject to variation as
the Convention may provide, ordinarily include:
"8. Provision for the National Convention, involving:
"b. Authorization of call and determination within authority
granted by last National Convention of representation from' States,
Territories and Districts; . . . ." Pp. 7-8.

RAY v. BLAIR.
214

Opinion of the Court.

population, scattered over our Land, so as to coordinate
efforts to secure needed legislation and oppose that
deemed undesirable. Compare Bryce, Modern Democracies, p. 546. . The party conventions of locally chosen
*delegates: from the county to the national level, succeeded
the caucuses of self-appointed legislators or other interested individuals. Dissatisfaction with the manipulation
of conventions caused that system to be largely superseded
by the direct primary. This was particularly true in the
South because, with the predominance of the Democratic
Party in that section, the nomination was more important
than the election. There primaries are generally, as in
.Alabama, optional.' Various tests of party allegiance for
candidates in direct primaries are found in a number of
states.7 The requirement of a pledge from the candidate
participating in primaries to support the nominee is not
unusual." Such a provision protects a party from in6 See Penniman, supra, n. 4, cc. XIII, XVIII, especially at pp. 300,
416; Merriam and Overacker, supra,n. 3, at pp. 92-93.
. Penniman, supra, pp. 425-426; Merriam and Overacker, 8upra,
pp. 129-133.
8
E. g., § 4, c. 109, N. D. Laws 1907, pp. 151, 153, discussed in
State ex rel. McCue v. Blaisdell, 18 N. D. 55, 118 N. W. 141. See
7 Fla. Stat. Ann. (Harrison, 1943) § 99.021 (pkt. pt.); Fla. Laws
1951, c. 26870, § 99.021, amending 7 Fla. Stat. Ann. (Harrison,
1943) § 102.29, discussed in Mairs v. Peters, 52 So. 2d 793. Cf. 3
Miss. Code Ann., 1942 (Harrison, 1943), § 3129; Ruhr v. Cowan, 146
Miss. 870, 112 So. 386. Cf. Va. Code, 1950 (Michie, 1949), §§ 24-367,
24-369. See Westerman v. Mims, 111 Tex. 29, 227 S.W. 178, discussing Art. 3096 of Tex. Rev. Stat. of 1911; cf. Love v. Wilcox, 119
Tex. 256, 28 S.W. 2d 515.
For an example of a pledge specifically directed toward primary
candidates for the office of presidential elector, see the resolutions of
the State Democratic Committee of Texas discussed in Carter v.
Tomlinson, 149 Tex. 7, 227 S. W. 2d 795; see also Love v. Taylor,
8 S.W. 2d 795 (Tex. Civ. App.); McDonald v. Calhoun, 149 Tex.
232, 231 S.W. 2d 656; cf. Seay v. Latham, 143 Tex. 1, 182 S. W. 2d.
251. See also the pledge required by the. Democratic Party of

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
Opinion of the Court.

343 U. S.

trusion by those with adverse political principles.' It was
under the authority of § 347 of the Alabama Code, note 2,
supra, that the State Democratic Executive Committee
of Alabama adopted a resolution on' January -26, 1952,
requiring candidates in its primary to pledge support to
the nominees of the National Convention of the Democratic Party for President and Vice-President. It is this
provision• in the qualifications required by the party under
*§ 347 which the Supreme Court of Alabama held unconstitutional in this case.
The opinion of the Supreme Court of Alabama concluded that the Executi.re Committee requirement violated the Twelfth Amendment, note 1, supra. It said:
"We appreciate the argument that from time immemorial, the electors selected to vote in the college
have voted in accordance with the wishes of the party
to which they belong. But in doing so, the effective
compulsion has been party loyalty. That theory has
Arkansas, discussed in Fishery. Taylor, 210 Ark. 380, 196 S. W. 2d
217.
Similar pledges, of course, are frequently exacted of voters in the
primaries. See, e. g., State ex rel. Adair v. Drexel, 74 Neb. 776, 105
N. W. 174; Morrow v. Wipf, 22 S. D. 146, 115 N. W. 1121; Ladd v.
Holmes, 40 Ore. 167, 66 P. 714. See Penniman, supra, note 4, at p.
431; Merriam and Overacker, supra, note 4, at pp. 124-129.
9
See Seay. v. Latham, 143 Tex. 1, 182 S. W. 2d 251. This was a
Texas case that allowed the Democratic Party of Texas to withdraw
its nomination of presidential electors when they announced their
determination to vote against the nominees of the party as made-by
the National Convention. The names of others were substituted.
The court said:
"A political party is a voluntary association, instituted for political
purposes. It is organized for the purpose of effectuating the will of
those who constitute its members, and it has the inherent power
of determining its own policies." 143 Tex., at p. 5, 182 S. W. 2d,
at 253. See Carter v. Tomlinson, 149 Tex. 7, 13, 227 S. W. 2d
795, 798;: 29 Tex. L. Rev. 378.

RAY v. BLAIR.
214

Opinion of the Court.

generally been taken for granted, so that the voting
for a president and vice-president has been usually
formal merely. But the Twelfth Amendment does
not make it so. The nominees of the party for president and vice-president may have become disqualified, or peculiarly offensive not only to the electors
but their constituents also. They should be free to
vote for another, as contemplated by the Twelfth
Amendment." 10 257 Ala., at - , 57 So. 2d, at 398.
In urging a contrary view the dissenting Alabama justices,
in supporting the right of the Committee to require this
candidate to pledge support to the party nominees, said:
"Any other .view, it seems, would destroy effective
party government and would privilege any candidate,
regardless of his political persuasion, to enter a primary election as a candidate for elector and fix his
"oThe court found support for its conclusion in the reasoning of
an Opinion of the Justices in answer to questions propounded by
the Governor of Alabama in 1948. 250 Ala. 399, 34 So. 2d 598, One
question was "Would an elector chosen at the general election in
November 1948 have a discretion as to the persons for whom he
could cast his ballbt for President and Vice President ?" Alabama had
amended § 226 of Title 17 of its Code, relating to the meeting and
balloting of its electoral college, by adding "and shall cast their
ballots for the nominee of the 'national convention of the party by
.which they were elected." That opinion said:
"The language of the Federal Constitution clearly shows that it
was the -intention of the framers of the Federal Constitution that
the electors chosen for the several states would exercise their judgment and discretion in the performance of their duty in the election
-of the president and vice-president and in determining the individuals
for whom they would cast the electoral votes of the states. History
supports this interpretation without controversy." 250 Ala., at 400,
34 So. 2d, at 600. See McPherson v. Blacker, 146 U. S. 1, 36. See
also Willbern, Discretion of Presidential Electors, 1 Ala. L. Rev. 40.
On this review the right to a plac6 on the primary ballot only is
in contest.

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
Opinion of the Court.

343 U. S.

own qualifications for such candidacy. This is contrary to the traditional American political system."
257 Ala., at -,
57 So. 2d, at 403.
The applicable constitutional provisions on their face
furnish no definite answer to the query whether a state
may permit a party to require party regularity from
its primary candidates for national electors.1' The presidential electors exercise a federal function in balloting
for President and Vice-President but they are not federal
officers or agents any more than the state elector who votes
for congressmen. They act by authority of the state that
"A s both constitutional provisions long antedated the party primary system, it is not to be expected that they or their legislative
history would illumine this issue. They do not. Discussion in the
Constitutional Convention as to the manner of election of the President resulted in the arrangement by which presidential electors were
chosen by the state as its legislature might direct. McPherson v.
Blacker, 146 U. S. 1, 28.
The Twelfth Amendment was brought about as the result of the
difficulties caused by the procedure set up under Art. II, § 1. Under
that procedure, the electors of each state did not vote separately for
President and Vice-President; each elector voted for two persons,
without designating which office he wanted each person to fill. If all
the electors of the predominant party voted for the same two men, the
election would result in a tie, and be thrown into the House, which
might or might not be sympathetic to that party. During the John
Adams administration, we had a President and Vice-President of
different parties, a situation which could not commend itself either
to the Nation or to most political theorists.
The situation was manifestly intolerable. Accordingly the Twelfth
Amendment was adopted, permitting the electors to vote separately
for presidential and vice-presidential candidates. Under this procedure, the party electors could vote the regular party ticket without
throwing the election into the House. Electors could be chosen
to vote for the -party candidates for both offices, and the electors
could carry out the desires of the people, without confronting the
obstacles which confounded the elections of 1796 and 1800. See 11
Annals of Congress 1289-1290, 7th Cong., 1st Sess. (1802).

RAY v. BLAIR.
214

Opinion of the Court.

in turn receives its authority from the Federal Constitution." Neither the language of Art. II, § 1, nor that of
the Twelfth Amendment forbids a party to require from
candidates in its primary a pledge of political conformity
with the aims of the party. Unless such a requirement
isimplicit, certainly neither provision of the Constitution
requires a state political party, affiliated with a national
party through acceptance of the national call to send
state delegates to the national convention, to accept persons as candidates who refuse to agree to abide by the
party's requirement. 3
The argument against the party's power to exclude
as candidates in the primary those unwilling to agree to
aid and support the national nominees runs as follows:.
The constitutional method for the selection of the President and Vice-President is for states to appoint -electors
who shall in turn vote for our chief executives. The intention of the Founders was that those electors should
exercise their judgment in voting for President and VicePresident. Therefore this requirement of a. pledge is a
restriction in substance, if not in form, that interferes
with the performance of this constitutional duty to select
the proper persons to head the Nation, according to the
best judgment of the elector. This interference with the
U. S. Const., Art. II, § 1:
"... Each State shall appoint, in such Manner as the Legislature
thereof may direct, a Number of Electors, equal to the whole Number
of Senators and Representatives to which the State may be entitled
in the Congress: but no Senator or Representative, or Person holding
an Office of Trust or Profit under the United States, shall be appointed
an Elector ......
Twelfth Amendment, note 1, supra; In re Green, 134 U. S.377,
379; Burroughs v. United States, 290 U. S. 534.
13 The Supreme Court of Alabama has just said that the Democratic
Party of that state was thus affiliated with the national organization.
See the excerpt from Ray v. Garner, in the text at note 5, supra.
12

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
Opinion of the Court.

343 U. S.

elector's freedom of balloting for President relates directly
to the general election and is not confined to the primary, it is contended, because under United States v.
Classic, 313 U. S. 299, and Smith v. Allwright, 321 U. S.
649, the Alabama primary is an integral part of the general election. See Schnell v. Davis, 336 U. S. 933. Although Alabama, it is pointed out, requires electors to be
chosen at the general election by popular vote, Ala. Code,
1940, Tit. 17, § 222, the real election takes place in the
primary. Limitation as to entering a primary controls
the results of the general election."
First we consider the impact of the Classic and Allwright cases on the present issues. In the former case,
we dealt with the power of Congress to punish frauds in
the primaries "[w]here the state law has made the primary an integral part of the procedure of choice." We
held that Congress had such power because the primary
was a necessary step in the choice of candidates for election as federal representatives. Therefore the sanctions
of §§ 19 and 20 of the old Criminal Code; subsequently re.14There is also a suggestion that, since the Alabama primary is
an integral part of the general election, the Fourteenth Amendment,
which among other prohibitions forbids a state to exclude voters on
account of their color, also forbids a state to exclude candidates because they refuse to pledge their votes. The answer to this suggestion is that the requirement of this pledge, unlike the requirement
of color, is reasonably related to a. legitimate legislative objective-namely, to protect the party system by protecting the party from a
fraudulent invasion by candidates who will not support the party.
See note 9, supra. In facilitating the effective operation of democratic
government, a state might reasonably classify voters or candidates
according to party affiliations, but a requirement of color, as we have
pointed out before, is not reasonably related to any legitimate legislative objective. Nixon v. Herndon, 273 U. S. 536. This requirement of a pledge does not deny equal protection or due process.
Furthermore, the Fifteenth Amendment directly forbids abridgment on account of color of the right to vote.

RAY v. BLAIR.
Opinion of the Court.

214

:vised as 18 U. S. C. §§ 241 and 242, which forbade injury to
constitutionally secured rights, applied to the right to vote
in the primary. 313 U. S., at 317-321. In the latter, the
problem was the constitutionality of the exclusion of citizens by a party as electors in a party primary because of
race. We held, on consideration of state participation in
the regulation of the primary, that the party exclusion was
state action and such state action was unconstitutional
because. the primary and general- election were a single
instrumentality for choice of officers. The Fifteenth
Amendment's prohibition of abridgment by a state of the
right to vote on account of race made the exclusion unconstitutional. Consequently, under 8 U. S. C. §§ 31 and 43
an injured party might sue one injuring him. 321 U. S.
649, 660-664.
In Alabama, too, the primary and general elections are
a part of the state-controlled elective process. The issue
here, however, is quite different from the power of Congress to punish. criminal conduct in a primary or to allow
damages for wrongs to rights secured by the Constitution.
A state's or a political party's exclusion of candidates from
a party primary because they will not pledge to support
the party's nominees is a method of securing party candidates in the general election, pledged to the philosophy
and leadership of that party. It is an exercise of the
state's right to -appoint electors in such manner, subject
to possible constitutional limitations, as it may choose.
U. S. Const., Art. II, § 1. The fact that the primary is
a part of the election machinery is immaterial unless the
requirement of pledge violates some constitutional or'statutory provision. It was the violation of a secured right
that brought about the Classic and Allwright-decisions.
Here they do not apply unless there was a violation of,
the Twelfth Amendment by the requirement to support
the nominees of the National Convention.
994,8. 0-6-I

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
Opinion of the Court.

343 U. S.

Secondly, we consider the argument that the Twelfth
Amendment demands absolute freedom for the elector
to vote his own choice, uninhibited by a pledge. It is
true that the Amendment says the electors shall vote
by ballot. But it is also true that the Amendment does
not prohibit an elector's announcing his choice beforehand, pledging himself. The suggestion that in the
early elections candidates for electors--contemporaries
of the Founders-would have hesitated, because of constitutional limitations, to pledge themselves to support
party nominees in the event of their selection as electors is impossible to accept. History teaches that the
electors were expected to support the party nominees.15
Experts in the history of government recognize the long1511 Annals of Congress 1289-1290, 7th Cong., 1st Sess. (1802):
"Under the Constitution electors are to vote for two persons, one
of whom does not reside in the State of the electors; but it does not
require a designation of the persons voted for. Wise and virtuous as
were the members of the Convention, experience has shown that the
mode therein adopted cannot be carried into operation; for the
people do not elect a person for an elector who, they know, does not
intend to vote for a particular person as President. Therefore, practically, the very thing is adopted, intended by this amendment."
S. Rep. No. 22, 19th Cong., 1st Sess. (1826), p. 4:
"In the firsr, election held under the constitution, the people looked
beyond these agents [electors], fixed upon their own candidates 'for
President and Vice President, and took pledges from the electoral candidates to obey their will. In every subsequent election, the same
thing has been done. Electors, therefore, have not answered the design of their institution. They are not .the independent body and superior characters which-they were intended tobe. They are not left to
the exercise of their own judgment; on the contrary, they give their
vote, or bind themselves to give it, according to the will of their
constituents. They have degenerated into mere agents, in a case
which requires no agency, and where the agent must be useless, if
he is faithful, and dangerous, if he is not." See 2 Story on the Constitution (5th ed., 1891) § 1463.

RAY v. BLAIR.
214

.229

Opinion of the Court.

standing practice.'" Indeed, more than twenty states do
not print the names of the candidates for electors on the
general election ballot. Instead, in one form or another,
they allow a vote for the presidential candidate of the
national conventions to be counted as a vote for his party's
This long-continued
nominees for the electoral college.
practical interpretation of the constitutional propriety of an implied or oral pledge of his ballot by a can16 McPherson v. Blacker, 146 U. S. 1, 36:
"Doubtless it was supposed that the electors would exercise a reasonable. independence and fair judgment in the selection of the Chief
Executive, but experience soon demonstrated that, whether chosen by
the legislatures or by popular suffrage on general ticket or in districts, they were so chosen simply to register the will of the appointing
power in respect of a particular candidate."
III Cyclopedia of American Government (Appleton, 1914), Presidential Elections, by Albert Bushnell Hart, p. 8:
"In the three elections of 1788-89, 1792 and 1796 there was a liberal scattering of votes, 13 persons receiving votes in 1796; but in
1800 there were only five names voted on. As early as 1792 an
understanding was established between the electors in some of the
different states that they should combine on the same man; and
from 1796 on there were always, with the exception of the two elections of 1820 and 1824, regular party candidates. In practice most
of the members of the electoral colleges belonged to a party, and
expected to support it; and after 1824 it became a fixed principle
that the electors offered themselves for the choice of the voters or
legislatures upon a pledge to vote for a predesignated candidate."
17E. g., Massachusetts:
Annotated Laws of Massachusetts, c. 54:
"§ 43. Presidential Electors, Arrangement of Names of Candidates,
etc.-The names of the candidates for presidential electors shall not
be printed on the ballot, but in lieu thereof the surnames of the
candidates of each party for president and vice president shall be
printed thereon in one line under the-designation 'Electors of president and vice president' and arranged in the alphabetical order of
the surnames of the candidates for president, with the political designation of the party placed at the right of and in the same line with

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
Opinion of the Court.

343 U. S.

didate for elector as to his vote in the electoral college
weighs heavily in considering the constitutionality of a
pledge, such as the one here required, in the primary.
However, even if such promises of candidates for the
electoral college are legally unenforceable because violative of an assumed constitutional freedom of the elector
under the Constitution, Art. II, § 1, to vote as he may
choose in the electoral college, it would not follow that
the requirement of a pledge in the primary is unconstitutional. A candidacy in the primary is a voluntary
act of the applicant. He is not barred, discriminatorily,
from participating but must comply with the rules of the
party. Surely one may voluntarily assume obligations
to vote for a certain candidate. The state offers him
opportunity to become a candidate for elector on his own
terms, although he must file his declaration before the
primary. Ala. ' Code, Tit. 17, § 145. Even though the
victory of an independent candidate for elector in Alabama cannot be anticipated, the state does offer the opportunity for the development of other strong political
organizations where the need is felt for them by a sizable
block of voters. Such parties may leave their electors to
their own choice.
the surnames. A sufficient square in which each voter may designate by a cross (X) his choice for electors shall be left at the right
of each political designation."
See S. Doc. No. 243, 78th Cong., 2d Sess. (1944), containing a
summary of the state laws relating to nominations and election of
presidential electors.
See Library of Congress, Legislative Reference Service, Proposed
Reform of the Electoral College, 1950; Edward Stanwood, A History of the Presidency from 1788 to 1897 (1912), pp. 47, 48, 50,
51. The author shows the practice of an elector's announcing his
preference and gives an alleged instance of violation.
. See the comments on instruction of electors in State Law on the
Nomination, Election, and Instruction of Presidential Electors, by
Ruth C. Silva, 42 Am. Pol. Sci. Rev. 523.

RAY v. BLAIR.
214

JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

We conclude that the Twelfth Amendment does not bar
a political party from requiring the pledge to support the
nominees of the National Convention. Where a state
authorizes a party to choose its nominees for elector in a
party primary and to fix the qualifications for the candidates, we see no federal constitutional objection to the
requirement of this pledge.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, not having heard the argument, owing to illness, took no part in the disposition of
the case.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON, with
LAS

whom MR.

JUSTICE DOUG-

joins, dissenting.

The Constitution and its Twelfth Amendment allow
each State, in its own way, to name electors with such
personal qualifications, apart from stated disqualifications, as the State prescribes.. Their number, the time
that they shall be named, the manner in which the
State must certify their ascertainment and the determination of any contest are prescribed by federal law. U. S.
Const., Art. II,'§ 1, 3 U. S. C. §§ 1-7. When chosen, they
perform a federal function of balloting for President and
Vice President, federal law prescribing the time of meeting, the manner of certifying "all the votes given by them,"
and in detail how such certificates shall be transmitted
and counted. U. S. Const., Amend. XII, 3 U. S. C. §§ 920. But federal statute undertakes no control of their
votes beyond providing "The electors shall vote for President and Vice President, respectively, in the manner di-

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

343 U. S.

rected by the Constitution," 3 U. S. C. § 8, and the Constitution requires only that they "vote by ballot for President
and Vice-President, one of whom, at least, shall not be
an inhabitant of the same state with themselves." U. S.
Const., 'Amend. XII. No one faithful to our history can
deny that the plan originally contemplated, what is implicit in its text, that electors would be free agents, to
exercise an independent and nonpartisan judgment as to
the men best qualified for the Nation's highest offices.*
Certainly under that plan no state law could control the
elector in performance of his federal duty, any more than
it could a United States Senator who also is chosen by,
and represents, the State.
This arrangement miscarried. Electors, although often
personally eminent, independent, and respectable, officially became voluntary party lackeys and intellectual
nonentities to whose memory we might justly paraphrase
a tuneful satire:
They always voted at their Party's call
And never thought of thinking for themselves at all.
As an institution the Electoral College suffered atrophy
almost indistinguishable from rigor mortis.
*See The Federalist, No. 68 (Earle ed., 1937), pp. 441-442:
"It was desirable that the sense of the people should operate in
the chbice of the person to whom so important a trust was to be confided. This end will be answered by committing the right of making
it, not to any.pre~stablished body, but to men chosen by the people
for the special purpose, and at the particular conjuncture.
"It was equally desirable, that the immediate election should be
made by men most capable of analyzing the qualities adapted to the
station, and acting under circumstances favorable to deliberation, and
to a judicious combination of all the reasons and inducements which
were proper to govern their choice. A small number of persons, selected by their fellow-citizens from the general mass, will be most
likely to possess the information' and discernment requisite to such
complicated investigations."

RAY v. BLAIR.
214

JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

However, in 1948, Alabama's Democratic Party Electors refused to vote for the nominee of the Democratic
National Convention. To put an end to such party unreliability the party organization, exercising state-delegated authority, closed the official primary to any candidate for elector unless he would pledge himself, under
oath, to support any candidate named by'the Democratic
National Convention. It is conceded that under longprevailing conditions this effectively forecloses any chance
of the State being represented by an unpledged elector.
In effect, before one can become an elector for Alabama,
its law requires that he must pawn his ballot to a candidate
not yet named, by a convention not yet held, of delegates
not yet chosen. Even if the nominee repudiates the platform adopted by the same convention, as Democratic
nominees have twice done in my lifetime (1904, 1928),
the elector is bound to vote for him. It will be seen that
the State has sought to achieve control of the electors'
ballots.. But the balloting cannot be constitutionally
subjected to any such control because it was intended to
be free, an act performed after all functions of the electoral
process left to the States have been completed. The
Alabama Supreme Court held that such a requirement
violates the Federal Constitution, and I agree.
It may be admitted that this law does no more than
to make a legal obligation of what has been a voluntary
general practice. If custom were sufficient authority for
amendment of the Constitution by Court decree, the decision in this matter would be warranted. Usage may
sometimes impart changed content to constitutional generalities, such as "due process of law," "equal protection,"
or "commerce among the states." But I do not think
powers or discretions granted to federal officials by the
Federal Constitution can be forfeited by the Court for
disuse. A political practice which has its origin in custom must rely upon custom for its sanctions.

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

343 U. S.

The demise of the whole electoral system would not
impress me as a disaster. At its best it is a mystifying
and distorting factor in presidential elections which may
resolve a popular defeat into an electoral victory. At its
worst it is open to local corruptiofn and manipulation,
once so flagrant as to threaten the stability of the country.
To abolish it and substitute direct election of the President, so that every vote wherever cast would have equal.
weight in calculating the result, would seem to me a gain
for simplicity and integrity of our governmental processes.
But the Court's decision does not even move in that
direction. What it is doing is to entrench the worst features of the system in constitutional law and to elevate
the perversion of the forefathers' plan into a constitutional
principle. This judicial overturn of the theory that has
come down to us cannot plead the excuse that it is a practical remedy for the evils or weaknesses of the system.
The Court is sanctioning a new instrument of power
in the hands of any faction that can get control of the
Democratic National Convention to make it sure of Alabama's electoral vote. When the party is in power this
will likely be the administration faction and when not in
power no one knows what group it will be. This device
of prepledged and oath-bound electors imposes upon the
party within the State an oath-bound regularity and loy.alty to the controlling element in the national party. It
centralizes party control and, instead of securing for the
locality a share in the central management, it secures the
central management in dominance of the local vote in the
.Electoral College. If we desire free elections, we should
not add to the leverage over local party representatives
always possessed by those who enjoy the prestige and dispense the patronage of a national administration.
The view of many that it is the progressive or liberal
element of the party that will presently advantage from
this device does not prove that the device itself has any

RAY v. BLAIR.
214

JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

proper place in a truly liberal or progressive scheme of
government. Who will come to possess this weapon and
to whose advantage it will prove in the long run I am not
foresighted enough to predict. But party control entrenched by disfranchisement and exclusion of nonconforming party members is a means which to my mind
cannot be justified by any end. In the interest of free government, we should foster the power and the will to be
independent even on the part of those we may think to
be independently wrong.
Candidates for elector, like those for Senator, of course,
may announce to their constituents their policies and
preferences, and assume a moral duty to carry them
out if they are chosen. Competition in the primary between those of different views would forward the representative principle. But this plan effects a complete suppression of competition between different views within
the party. All who are not ready to follow blindly anyone chosen by the national convention are excluded from
the primary, and that, in practice, means also from the
election.
It is not for me, as a judge, to pass upon the wisdom or
righteousness of the political revolt this measure was designed to suppress. For me it is enough that, be it ever
so benevolent and virtuous, the end cannot justify these
means.
I would affirm the decision of the Supreme Court of
Alabama.

