CHICAGO, R. I. & PAC. RY. v. MAUCHER.
354.

359

Syllabus.

Third. The United States objected also to the jurisdiction of the court over it. Neither the special act nor
any general statute authorized suit against the United
States. As it cannot be sued without its consent, the
United States was improperly joined as a party defendant, although in the capacity of trustee for the Creek Nation. Compare Green v. Menominee Tribe, supra.
It is not necessary to consider the many other objections
urged against the petition. The Court of Claims properly
dismissed it; and the judgment is
Affirmed.

CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY v. MAUCHER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.

No. 85. Argued December 17, 18, 1918.-Decided January 7, 1919.
The freedom of the States to establish and apply their own laws and
policies touching the validity of contracts exempting carriers from
liability to passengers for injuries due to negligence, was not affected
by the Carmack Amendment, which deals only with shipments of
property. P. 363.
An employee of a circus was injured~by the negligent operation of a
passenger train of a railroad company while traveling upon a train
owned by the circus, which was being hauled over the tracks of the
railroad company by its locomotive and crew pursuant to a special
contract declaring the company not a common carrier therein and
not liable for negligence. Held, that the employee was not a
passenger of the railroad company, and that his cause of action was
based on the general right not to be injured by the negligence of
another. Id.
Writ of error to review 100 Nebraska, 237, dismissed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

248 U. S.

Mr. William D. McHugh, with whom Mr. William H.
Herdman and Mr. John M. Kelley were on the brief, for
plaintiff in error:
Under these contracts, cars of the circus company
loaded with paraphernalia, an extensive menagerie of
wild animals, tents, equipment, horses, wagons, performers and employees, all comprising the circus outfit, were
moved over the lines of the plaintiff in error in interstate
commerce. The contracts fixed the rights and liabilities
of the parties with respect to the shiprxient and transportation. This court has repeatedly held that the power of
railroad companies to contract with respect to their
liability in matters of interstate transportation, was the
subject dealt with by the Carmack Amendment, and that,
therefore, the laws and policies of particular States respecting the validity of such contracts, were superseded.
The validity of the contracts is a matter to be determined by the common law as declared by this court, and
enforced by the federal courts throughout the United
States. ,
The right of a common carrier, when acting outside the
performance of its legal duties, as such, to contract as a
private carrier and to stipulate for freedom from liability
for injury, due to its negligence, to persons or property
carried under such contract, is broadly recognized by this
court. Railroad Co. v. Lockwood, 17 Wall. 357, 377;
Santa Fe, Prescott & Phoenix Ry. Co. v. Grant Brothers
Construction Co., 228 U. S. 177.
Under the common law, as applied by this court and
federal courts generally, the plaintiff in error was under
no obligation, as a common carrier, to move the circus
outfit over its line as it was moving at the time of the injury. The rendition of such service, and the terms upon
which the same will be rendered, is a matter for private
bargain.
The defendant in error, at the time of his injury, was

CHICAGO, R. I. & PAC. RY. v. MAUCHER.
359.

361

Opinion of the Court.

an employee of the circus and Was being transported
as such by his employer, as a part of its circus outfit, in a
car and train belonging to his employer which his employer
was running over the tracks of the plaintiff in error under
the special contract. He had paid no fare and his only
right to be there was by virtue of his contract of employment with the circus company and the special contract
between plaintiff in error and the circus company. Baltimore & Ohio S. W. Ry. Co. v. Voigt, 176 U. S. 498, 512;
Railway Co. v. Mahoney, 148 Indiana, 196; Robertson v.
Old Colony R. R. Co., 156 Massachusetts, 525; Coup v.
Railway Co., 56 Michigan, 111; Chicago, Milwaukee & St.
Paul Ry. Co. v. Wallace, 66 Fed. Rep. 506, 510; Wilson
v. Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co., 129 Fed. Rep. 774;
Clough v. Grand Trunk Western Ry. Co., 155 Fed. Rep.
81; Sager v. Northern Pacific Ry. Co., 166 Fed. Rep. 526,
527.
Mr. Philip E. Horan, with whom Mr. J. A. C. Kennedy
and Mr. Yale C. Holland were on the brief, for defendant
inerror.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
court.
Barnum & Bailey, who owned rolling stock adapted to
carrying their circus equipment and personnel, made, in
1913, a special contract with the Chicago, Rock Island &
Pacific Railway Company concerning transportation on
its lines. The railway agreed for a sum fixed, to give
the right to use its tracks and locomotives fully manned
and supplied, to haul the circus trains. Barnum & Bailey
agreed, among other things, that the railway was not acting therein as a common carrier; that it should not be
liable for any injury, though arising from negligence, either
to their own person or property or to that of any of their

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

employees; and that they would indemnify the railway
against any such injury.
While the circus train was being moved in Nebraska,
from Lincoln to Atlantic, Iowa, it was crashed into by one
of the railway's regular passenger trains; and Maucher,
an employee of the circus, was injured. He had, by his
contract of employment, agreed to release all railroad
companies from any claim for injuries suffered while
travelling with the circus on their lines; but he brought,
in a state court of Nebraska, an action against the railway for damages, alleging that he had been injured by its
negligence. The railway defended on the ground that its
contract with Barnum & Bailey, and thus with the plaintiff, operated to release it from all liability; that since the
contract related to a movement in interstate commerce,
its validity was to be determined by the federal law; and
that by the federal law the contracts were valid, although
undertaking to release the railway from liability; since it
was not acting as common carrier. Santa Fe, Prescott &
Phoenix Ry. Co. v. Grant Brothers Construction Co., 228
U. S. 177. The trial court held that the liability was to be
determined by the law of Nebraska; and entered judgment
for plaintiff which was affirmed by the Supreme Court of
the State. 100 Nebraska, 237. The case came here on
writ of error under ยง 237 of the Judicial Code.
The railway admits that prior to the enactment of the
Carmack Amendment (Act of June 29, 1906, c. 3591,
ยง 7, 34 Stat. 584, 595) Congress had, not dealt with the
right of carriers to limit by contract their liability for injuries occurring in interstate transportation, and that
consequently the States were free to establish their own
laws and policies and apply them to such contracts. Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Hughes, 191 U. S. 477. But it contends that this power of the States was superseded by the
Carmack Amendment, since that amendment dealt with
the power of carriers to contract in respect to such liability;

MISSOURI, KANS. & TEX. RY. v. SEALY.
359,

363

Syllabus.

Adams Express Co. v. Croninger, 226 U. S. 491; Boston
& Maine Railroad v. Hooker, 233 U. S. 97; that it was the
intention of Congress to deal with the whole subject;
and that the rights of plaintiff in respect to personal injuries is governed by the federal law. But the Carmack
Amendment deals only with the shipment of property.
Its language is so clear as to leave no ground for the contention that Congress intended to deal with the transportation of persons. Furthermore, plaintiff was not even
a passenger on the railway. His claim rests not upon a
contract of carriage, but upon the general right of a human
being not to be injured by the negligence of another.
Compare Southern Pacific Co. v. Schuyler, 227 U. S. 601,
613. The case presents io substantial federal question.
The writ of error is
Dismissed.

MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RAILWAY COMPANY v. SEALY ET AL., PARTNERS AS HUTCHINGS, SEALY & COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 90. Argued December 18, 1918.-Decided January 7, 1919.
When a party neglects to present a federal question within the time allowed by the state procedure, and it is refused consideration by the
state court for that reason, writ of error will not lie under Jud. Code,
ยง 237.
A cause of action under an interstate bill of lading, which arose, if at
all, before the date of the Carmack Amendment, depends upon the
state law.
Writ of error to review 98 Kansas, 225, dismissed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

