24

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Counsel for Defendants in vr,:

"48 -U,S.

found that such land was not, included in the contract,
hence the sole basis for the asserted federal oue,;on disappears.
And this result is not changed by considering, to the
extent that it is our duty to do so. the question of fact
upon which the existence of the alleged federal question
depends. Northern Pac. Ry. Co. v. North Dakota, 236
IU.S. 585, 593; Creswill v. Knights oj Pythias. *,2 U. S.
246, 261; Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v. Albers Commission Co., 223 U. S. 573, 591. We so conclude bectuse
the result of discharging that duty leaves us convinced
that the finding below was adequately sustained; indeed,
that the record makes it clear that tlie alleged ground for
the federal question was a mere afterthought. The case,
therefore, must be and is
Dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

LAY ET AL. v. LAY ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT -OF THE STATE OF MISSISSIPPI.
No.'633.

Motion to dismiss or affirm sfibmitted November 4, 198.'Decided November 18, 1918.

As between the parties to it, an assignment of a claim again-t the
Government for property taken during the Civil War, or of the right
to a fund appropriated by Congress to satisfy a judgment therefor,
is not made void by Rev. Stats., ยง 3477.
118 Mississippi, 549, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Win. H. Watkins, for defendants in-error, submitted
the' motion.

LAY
24.

. LAY.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. John C. Bryson, for plaintiffs in error, in opposition
to the motion. Mr. Win. I. McKay was also on the brief.

Memorandum for the court by THE CHIEF JUSTICE.
The right to a fund resulting from the payment of an
appropriation by Congress to satisfy a judgment for the
value of property taken during the Civil War is the issue
here involved. The contestants are the heir' at law of the
original claimant and persons holding under an assignment by her of all her right to the claim or fund. The
court enforced the assignment.
Under the assumption that the claimant was prohibited
by the law of the United States (ยง3477, Rev. Stats.) from
making an assignment, the heirs at law prosecute error to
correct the federal error thus assumed to have been comimitted. But the assumption indulged in as to the effect
of the law of the United States is without merit. McGoi ,,n
v. Parish,237 U. S. 285, 294, and cases cited. This renders
it unnecessary to consider whether, if the heirs at law were
entitled to the fund, they would be liable to pay the full
sum of the attorney's fee contracted for by the transferee
and the duty to pay which the transferee and those in
privity do not dispute.
Judgment affirmed.

