OELWERKE TEUTONIA v. ERLANGER.
507.

Syllabus.

act was passed seems not to have been brought to the
attention of the Land Department-probably because
the purchaser was not a party to the contest proceedings.
The contention is made that the portions of that act
which are material here do not embrace lands within
the indemnity limits, but only those within the primary
limits. A survey of the entire act shows that the contention is without merit.
No. 164. Decree reversed.
No. 165. Decree reversed.
No. 166. Decree affirmed as to S. 1 2 of N. W. 14 of Sec. 3,
T. 3 N., R. 7 W., L. M., and reversed as to the other
lands.

OELWERKE TEUTONIA v. ERLANGER ET AL.,
PARTNERS

UNDER

THE

FIRM

NAME

OF

ERLANGER & GALINGER.
ERLANGER ET AL., PARTNERS UNDER THE
FIRM NAME OF ERLANGER & GALINGER, v.
OELWERKE TEUTONIA.
APPEALS FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE
ISLANDS.
Nos. 162, 181.

Submitted January 20, i919.-Decided February 3, 1919.

A finding that a vessel was abandoned, concurred in by the court of
first instance and the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands, in a
salvage case, will be accepted by this court when -supported by
evidence. P. 524.
Unless there has been some violation of principle or clear mistake,
appeals to this court on the ainounts allowed for salvage are not encouraged. Id.
The right of a speculative salvor is to share in the benefit resulting

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Erlanger et al.

248 U. S.

from his work; he is not entitled to reimbursement for his actual
expenses, but the necessary work as well as the degree of danger
should be considered in fixing his allowance. P. 525.
A decree of the Supreme Court of the Philippines allowing 40% of the
net value of cargo as salvage, with interest, affirmed.
34 Phil. Rep. 178, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opimon.
Mr. Harry W. Van Dyke for Oelweike Teutonia. Mr.
Charles E. Cotterill and Mr. Edmund W. Van Dyke were
also on the brief:
The plaintiffs ought not to have veen held by the court
below to have been salvors, but should have been regarded and treated as intruders without warrant-as
having seized unlawfully the property of the defendant
over its protests and as having wrongfully' and unlawfully
prevented defendant's agents in Manila from recovering
possession of the property for the purpose of saving it
through the employment of persons who were at hand,
ready, willing and competent to undertake the work.
There was no impending peril. 2 Bouvier, Rawle's Rev.,
"Salvage," and cases cited; Blackwell v. Sancelito Tug Co.,
10 Wall. 1; Williamson v. The Alphonso, 30 Fed. Cas. 4, 5;
Abbott, Law of Merchant Ships & Seamen, 14th ed., 994.
So far at least as this defendant is concerned, the plaintiffs not only ought to have been denied any award, but
they ought to 1fave been mulcted in damages to cover the
loss of the jettisoned copra, ds well as for the deterioration
of the wet copra which was sent to Manila and sold. In
any event, if this court should be inclined to agree with the
court below in its other conclusions, the award of forty
per cent., considering all the circumstances disclosed, was
grossly excessive.
Mr. F. C. Fisher for Erlanger et al.:
This court has jurisdiction and may pass upon all the
issues of law and fact presented by the record.

OELWERKE TEUTONIA v. ERLANGER.
521.

Opinion of the Court.

The "Nippon" was a derelict vessel when plaintiffs
took possession of her for the purpose of effecting the
salvage. Plaintiffs' possession for that purpose was lawful
in its inception and was lawfully continued.
The services rendered by plaintiffs as salvors were
prompt, skillful, efficient, and successful.
. The expenditures incurred by plaintiffs in effecting the
salvage operations were properly and necessarily incurred,
and were not excessive. ./
Under the circumstances of the case plaintiffs are entitled to an award sufficient in amount to reimburse them
for their expenditures in behalf of defendant and to give
them such additional compensation as shall substantially
remunerate them for their exertions and the risk incurred,
and to interest. The Edwards, 12 Fed. Rep. 508; Hemmenway v. Fisher,20 How. 255. The Carl Schurz, 5 Fed. Cas.
84; The Adolphe, 29 Fed. Cas. 1350; The L. W. Perry, 71
Fed. Rep. 745, distinguished.
MR. JusT C HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
These are cross appeals from a judgment on a complaint for salvage of cargo brought by Erlanger & Galinger
to which the defendant, Oelwerke Teutonia, answered
denying the services and setting up a counterclaim for
damages alleged to have been caused by the negligeAce and
incompetence of the plaintiffs. The Court of First Instance found for the plaintiffs and awarded to them onehalf of the net proceeds of the property saved. On appeal
the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands, while otherwise confirming the findings of the Court of First Instance,
reduced the award to forty per cent. of the main part of
the cargo, which was copra, and to twenty per cent. of a
small item of agar-agar which does not need further mention. We assume that the plaintiffs receive a corresponding proportion of the interest accruing upon the fund.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.

Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

The main facts are these. The steamship Nippon, loaded
principally with copra, went aground on Scarborough
Reef, 120 or 130 miles from Luzon, in the afternoon of
May 8, 1913. The next day the chief officer and nine of
the crew were sent off in the only seaworthy small boat in
search of help and on the twelfth reached Santa Cruz,
Luzon, and telegraphed to Manila for "immediate assistance for saving crew." Help was sent at once and on the
thirteenth the captain and crew went to Hongkong on a
mail steamer that stopped for them, the captain preferring
to take that course rather than to go to Manila by a
coast guard cutter that had been sent to the wreck. On
May 14 the plaintiffs chartered a cutter, and took possession of the Nippon on the 17th. Shortly after this the
work of salvage was begun. It was finished in July when
the vessel, the claim for which has been paid, and a great
part of the cargo were saved.
There were protests on behalf of interested parties after
the plaintiffs had started and it is denied that the vessel
was abandoned. But all the earliest communications and
circumstances indicate that the only hope whef the chief
officer left the ship was to save the lives of those left on
board, and that there was no greater expectation when the
captain was taken off. It is unnecessary to say more about
the evidence than that it shows no ground for departing
from the usual rule when two courts have agreed about the
facts. As the only point of difference with regard to them
concerns the amount of salvage allowed, that is the only
question upon which we shall say a word.
Unless there has been some violation of principle or
clear mistake, appeals to this Cour6 concerning the
amount of the allowance are not encouraged. Hobart v.
Drogan, 10 Pet. 108, 119; Post v. Jones, 19 How. 150, 160.
The plaintiffs complain that their expenses were not
taken into account or were not given sufficient consideration. But, as was pointed out by the Court below, the

CENTRAL OF GEORGIA RY. CO. v. WRIGHT.
521.

525

Syllabus.

cost was their affair. There was no contract and no request. They went into a speculation and their only
claim is a lien upon goods that they have rescued for a
share in the saving that they have made for the owners.
The right to share in a benefit that is the result of their
work is the only ground upon which the plaintiffs can
stand. Of course, within that limit the necessary work
and the danger are matters to be considered. Here the
danger might have been great but it was not, and the
work seems to deserve neither much praise nor much
blame. There was more of commercial speculation and
less of help not to be found elsewhere than is usual in
salvage cases, and we are not prepared to say that the
Supreme Court ought to hav allowed more. We are
equally unprepared to say that it should have allowed less.
The services were rendered rightfully and were fairly
efficient. Neither side would be likely to inspire enthusiasm and both justly may be left where they were
left by the Court below.
Decree affirmed.

CENTRAL OF GEORGIA RAILWAY COMPANY v.
WRIGHT, COMPTROLLER GENERAL OF THE
STATE OF GEORGIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE.STATE OF GEORGIA.
No. 163. Argued January 21, 1919.-Decided February 3, 1919.
The same reasons which led this court to decide that the tax exemptions in the special charters of the Augusta & Savannah and the
Southwestern -Railroads inured to the Central of Georgia Railway
as their lessee and precluded taxing the latter upon the fee of the
leased property (Wright v. Central of Georgia Ry. Co., 236 U. S. 674),

