OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

248 U. S.

which died intestate, although his wife would have taken
equally with him had she been an enrolled Creek.
All statutes of descent and distribution are arbitrary
expressions of the purpose of the law-making power; and
that the provisions of such a statute do not happen to
meet the notions of justice of a court is not sufficient
reason for indulging in an interpretation which modifies
their plain and unambiguous terms. Especially is this
true of these Indian statutes which are a progressive
development, embodying concessions to tribal custom'
and tradition necessary to be made in order to accomplish
a practical, though perhaps not an ideal, dissolution of
the tribal relation and distribution of the tribal property.
The rights of this Creek mother cannot rise higher
than those of her daughters.
It results that the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Oklahoma must be reversed and the case remanded for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

CLEVELAND-CLIFFS IRON COMPANY ET AL. v.
ARCTIC IRON COMPANY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 75.

Argued November 22, 1918.-Decided December 23, 1918.

A certificate from the Oircuit Court of Appeals consisting of recitals
of facts interblended with questions of law, or of recitals which fail
in themselves to distinguish between . ultimate and merely evidenial
facts, affords no basis under the statute (Jud. Code, ยง 239) either
for answerihg the questions propounded or for exercising the discretionary power to call up the whole re~ord, and must be dismissed.
Certificate dismissed.

CLEVELAND-CLIFFS CO. v. ARCTIC IRON CO.
178.

179

Opinion of the Court.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. A. C. Dustin and Mr. Horace Andrews, with whom
Mr. W. P. Belden was on the briefs, for Cleveland-Cliffs
Iron Co. et al.
Mr. S. W. Shaull and Mr. C. C. Daniels, with whom
Mr. A. C. Angell was on the briefs, for Arctic Iron Co.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
The certificate upon which this case is before us contains what are denominated findings of fact grouped
under eighteen paragraphs covering eight pages of the
record. Upon these findings we are asked to instruct
as to six propositions of law, really amounting to twelve
since each is two-fold, that is, stated in the alternative.
But we are of opinion that we may not instruct as to
these propositions for the following reasons.
In the first place, because we think it is clear that the
statements which are declared in the certificate to be
findings of fact are in no true sense entitled to that characterization, since the statements amount but to a narrative
of facts mixed with questions of law so interblended, the
one with the other, as to cause it to be impossible to conclude as to either the law ,or the facts without a separation
of the two, a duty which we may not be called upon to
perform in giving ihistructions upon questions of law
propounded under the statute controlling that subject.
In the second place, because even if the admixture of
law and fact which inheres in the recitals in the certificate be overlooked, the recitals nevertheless, in and of
th3mselves, fNil to distinguish between facts which are
merely evidential and those which are ultimate and which
for that rev 3on would be susceptible of furnishing support

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
CLARKE,

J., dissenting.

248 U. S.

for the legal propositions as to which instructions are
asked.
It % true, indeed, that the statute gives us the discretion, when a case is certified, to direct the sending up
of the whole record, but obviously the exercise of that
discretionary power is not called for by a case where the
certificate is of such a character as not to be embraced
by the statute.
It must be, therefore, that this case affords no ground
for directing the sending up of the whole record since
here the certificate is inadequate to sustain the right to
answer the questions stated. To hold to the contrary
would be to cause a mistaken exercise of the right to
certify specific questions to become the instrument by
*which the division of powers made by the statute would
be disregarded.
The views which we have stated are in accord with
the settled rules concerning the power to certify which
have prevailed from the beginning. See Dillon v. Strathearn S. S. Co., post, p. 182, and the authoritieg therein
cited. It follows that the certificate must be and is
Dismissed.
MR. JUSTIcE CLARxE, dissenting.
I greatly regret that I cannot concur in the conclusion
of the court just announced.
That the certificate of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
longer and more detailed than is usual is sufficiently explained by the unusual character of the facts in the case
and of the questions of law involved. The certificate
concludes with this statement:
"However, we consider that No. 5 presents a question of
law which is, in the view -most favorable to plaintiff, the
ultimate one; and we desire that this question be answered,
without prejudice from the inclusion of others in this
certificate, if it shall be thought that the inclusion of. the
*

CLEVELAND-CLIFFS CO. v. ARCTIC IRON CO.
178.

CLARKE,

181

J., dissenting.

others is not in accordance with the practic6 of the supreme
court in this respect."
Question No. 5 is in the alternative, viz:
"5a. When it appeared that the Cliffs had interests
and desires pertaining to the new lease which might conflict with the course Kaufman and Breitung desired the
Arctic to take, did the Cliffs and Mather perform every
duty which by law rested upon him as director of the
Arctic and through him upon the Cliffs when Mather
withdrew from any further participation in the matter
and notified Kaufman and Breitung that they could go
ahead and make for the Arctic a contract satisfactory to
them, and that the Cliffs and Mather would acquiesce
therein? or,
"5b. Was it the duty of Mather as director in the
Arctic, either to disclose to Kaufman and Breitung what
he had done and the knowledge he had acquired as an
officer of the Cliffs and on behalf of the Cliffs, or else to
resign as a director in the Arctic?"
While these two questions run into each other and
could, perhaps, have been written as one, nevertheless,
in my judgment, each presents a question of law, arising
upon recited facts, and each is stated with sufficient
precision to bring it within the terms of ยง239 of the
Judicial Code and Rule 37 of this court, and I therefore
think that these two questions, at least, should have been
answered, or that this court should have required that the
whole record of the case be sent up for its consideration.

