UNITED STATES i. NEW ORLEANS PAC. RY. CO. 507

Syllabus.

UNITED STATES ET AL. v. NEW ORLEANS
PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY ET AL.
UNITED STATES ET AL. v. NEW ORLEANS
PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY ET AL.
UNITED STATES ET AL. v. NEW ORLEANS
PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY ET AL.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
Nos. 164, 165, 166.

Argued December 10, 11, 1918.-Decided January 27, 1919.

Persons qualified and claiming under the Homestead Law who, before
the definite location of the New Orleans Pacific Railway between
Whitecastle and Shreveport (November 17, 1882), settled on portions of odd-numbered sections within the primary and indemnity
limits of its grant, erecting dwellings and in part cultivating and
fencing their respective tracts, and who thereafter maintained their
,claims, residency, occupation and cultivation, held entitled to the
benefits of the Act of February 8, 1887, c. 120, 24 Stat. 391, which,
while confirming the grant to the Railway Company, provides that
lands occupied by actual settlers at the date of said definite location
and still remaining in the possession of them or of their heirs, or
assigns, shall be excepted from the grant and be subject to entry
under the public land laws. Pp. 516-519.
The provisions of the Act of 1887, supra,§§ 2 and 6, in favor of settlers,
became applicable, when accepted by the confirmee company, to all
of the unpatented lands and to such of the patented lands as it had
not sold (p. 515), and to indemnity as well as to place lands (p. 521);
but not to lands which while vacant and unclaimed, were withdrawn
from entry and sale, and were patented to the Railway and by it conveyed to a bona fide purchaser, before the act was passed. P. 520.
Subsequent purchasers from the Railway were charged with notice of
the Act of 1887, supra, and of the claims of settlers, entitled'to its
benefits, and occupying the tracts purchased. Id.
Because of the obligations which the act imposes, the United States

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for the United States.

248 U. S.

may maintain a suit on beltalf of settlers to secure their rights under
the act against the Railway and its grantees holding the legal title
through patents. P. 518.
In such a suit, affecting a patent issued to the Railway before the Act
of March 2,1896, c. 39, 29 Stat. 42, the five year limitation of that
act may be a bar to relief by cancellation, but the bill may stand upon
the more appropriate prayer, to affix a trust upon the legal title in
favor of the settlers. Id.
While the laches of a private person is imputable to the United States
in a suit brought by it for his benefit, in this case it is held, that
settlers, entitled to the benefits of the Act of 1887, supra, who maintained peaceable and continued possession, affording notice of their
equitable rights which they asserted and sustained before the Land
Department, and who relied upon the promise of that Department to secure their titles and on suits brought *by the Government
to that end, were not guilty of laches, notwithstanding long delays
in the litigation. Id.
235 Fed. Rep. 846, reversed.
235 Fed. Rep. 841, affirmed in part and reversed in part.

THE cases are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Kearful for the United
States:
The United States has the capacity to maintain these
suits because of its obligation to the interveners and its
duty to the public.
The effect of the Act of February 8, 1887, was to reserve from the grant and except from the railroad patents
the lands in question for the benefit of the interveners.
The suits are not barred by limitation, because: (a)
The suits are to establish title by enforcing an exception
rather than to vacate or annul patents. (b) The lands are
not claimed by the Government in its own sole interest
as public lands, and it is only to such lands that the limitation applies.
The suits are not barred by laches, because: (a) The
intervening claimants have always been and are still in
the hands of the Government, against whom laches is

UNITED STATES v. NEW ORLEANS PAC. RY. CO.
507.

Argument for Appellees.

not chargeable. (b) The claimants having the right to
rely upon their possession and the decision of the Land
Department, it is not they but the defendants who are
guilty of laches.
The defendant lumber companies are not bona fide
purchasers.
Mr. Mark Norris, Mr. F. G. Hudson and Mr. H. H.
White, with whom Mr. J. G. Palmer was on the briefs,
for appellees:
The patents were regularly and rightly issued because
§ 2 of the Act of February 8, 1887, applies neither to lands
which were patented previous to the passage of that act
(" patented lands"), nor to (" indemnity") lands, selected
in lieu of a failure of the lands granted within the primary
limits of the grant ("place" lands).
Neither §§ 2, 4, or 6, nor any other part of the Act of
1887, granted to the interveners any special or preferential
rights in the lands.
This litigation involves neither an interest of the Government, an obligation to the public nor a duty to these
interveners, and therefore is altogether a conflict of private
rights, which both the-United States and the interveners
are without capacity to maintain herein.
The alleged rights of the Government and of the interveners are barred by the prescription, limitation and
confirmation, pleaded both in bar of the action and,
affirmatively, as a muniment of title.
The bill is without equity. Both the Government,
admittedly a nominal party, and the interveners, the
settler-claimants, are, alike, estopped to question the
patents, 29 years after their issuance.
The appellees are bona fide purchasers, for value and
without notice, both in the meaning of the general rule
and the confirmatory statutes pleaded.
The issuance. of the patents was an adjudication that

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

no dne was in possession; that they were public lands in
every sense of the term.
The relative rights of a grantee company and an individual occupant or entryman must be determined by
record evidence under the New Orleans Pacific Grant the
same as under other railroad grants.
The lands were rightly patented under the general
location of November 11, 1871, as required i y the Act of
March 3, 1871, as well as under the definite location of
November 17, 1882.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
These suits are so related that they may be disposed of
in a single opinion. Three tracts of land in Vernon Parish,
Louisiana, each containing one hundred sixty acres, are
in controversy--one in each suit. All are in odd-numbered
sections within the limits of the grant of March 3, 1871, to
the New Orleans, Baton Rouge and Vicksburg Railroad
Company, c. 122, 16 Stat. 573,--one being within the
primary and two within the indemnity limits. All were
patented under the grant and afterwards sold by the
patentee, the purchasers paying a fair price. Through
successive sales the title under the patents was passed
along to other purchasers. Whether the latter shall be
decreed to hold the title in trust for certain homestead
claimants whose claims are founded on settlements
antedating the issue of the patents, and also the definite
location of the road, is the matter in controversy.
The suits, were brought by the United States, the defendants being the patentee and the present holders of the
title under the patents. The relief prayed was that the
patents be canceled, or, if that be not done, that the homestead claimants be decreed to be the equitable owners and
that a trust in their favor be declared and enforced. Of

UNITED STATES v. NEW ORLEANS PAC. RY. CO. 511
507.

Opinion of the Court.

these alternative prayers, the latter was better suited to
the case stated. By leave of the court the homestead
claimants intervened, set forth their claims, alleged that
the patentee and all the purchasers took the title with full
notice of their claims, asserted that the title was held in
trust for them and sought relief accordingly. Various
defenses were set up in the answers, such as the lapse of
the period prescribed for bringing suits to cancel patents,
laches on the part of the homestead claimants and good
faith on the part of the purchasers. On the final hearing
the District Court entered a decree for the defendants in
each of the suits, and this was affirmed in the Circuit
Court of Appeals. 235 Fed. Rep. 841 and 846. The
District Court did not make any specific finding of fact or
assign any particular reason for its decree, and the Circuit Court of Appeals rested its decision on three grounds:
(a) that in so far as the suits sought a cancellation of the
patents they were barred because not brought within
the time prescribed by law; (b) that, if a trust had arisen
in'favor of the homestead claimants, its enforcement was a
matter in which the United States was without interest or
concern; and (c) that, if such a trust had arisen, it had
become unenforceable by reason of inexcusable laches on
the part of the homestead claimants.
The grant of March 3, 1871, was made to the New
Orleans, Baton Rouge and Vicksburg Railroad Company,
"its successors and assigns," to aid in the construction of a
railroad from New Orleans to Shreveport, and embraced
all the odd-numbered sections of public land within twenty
miles (the primary limits) on each side of the road, subject
to enumerated exceptions, one of which excluded any
land to which a preemption or homestead claim may
"have attached" at the time the line of the road was
definitely located. In lieu of the excepted lands others in
odd-ndmbered sections within prescribed indemnity limits
were to be telected. Whenever, and as often as, twenty

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

consecutive miles of road were completed and put in

running order patents were to be issued for the lands
opposite to and coterniinous with that portion of the road.
The entire road was to be completed within five years.

Within two years the company was to designate the
''general route" of the road and to file a map of the same
in the Department of the Interior. There was no provision directly calling for a map showing the definite location
of the road, but that such a map was to be filed was
plainly implied.
The general route of the road was designated on a map
filed and accepted in November, 1871. The Secretary of
the Interior, complying with an express provision in the
granting act, then caused the odd-numbered sections
within the primary limits to be withdrawn from entry and
sale. That withdrawal became effecti 've in December,
1871, and included the tract in controversy in No. 166.
The Secretary also ordered a like withdrawal of the oddnumbered sections within the indemnity limits, but as the
granting act did not authorize, but in effect prohibited,
their withdrawal, this part of the order was of no effect.
Soithern Pacific R. R. Co. v. Bell, 183 U. S. 675.
No part of the railroad was constructed by the original
,grantee, and on January 5, 1881, it transferred the grant
to the New Orleans Pacific Railway Company. At that
time this company had a line of completed railroad ex-

tending from New Orleans to Whitecastle in the direction
of Shreveport, and thereafter, during the years 1881 and
1882, it constructed, completed and put in running order,
the road from Whitecastle to Shreveport. It also filed
with the Secretary of the Interior, on November 17, 1882, a
map showing the definite location of the part of the road
opposite the tracts now in controversy, and the map was
accepted. The road as completed was examined and accepted, and the company was recognized by the Secretary
of the Interior, the Attorney General and the President,

UNITED STATES v. NEW ORLEANS PAC. RY. (O. 513
507.

Opinion of the Court.

as rightly entitled to patents for the lands falling within
the terms of the grant and lying opposite the road from
Whitecastle to Shreveport.
Thereafter, in 1885, patents for a large part of the lands
were issued to the New Orleans Pacific Railway Company,
the assignee of the grant. Other lands remained as yet
unpatented. About that time this company's rights
under the grant were persistently questioned by persons
who insisted that the grant was not assignable, that all
rights under it were extinguished when the road was not
constructed within the five years prescribed therefor, and
that in any event a forfeiture could and should be declared for the failure to comply with that condition, although the road had been completed in the meantime.
Because of this the Secretary of the Interior, although not
acceding to the insistence, suspended the issue of patents
and called the matter to the attention of Congress, saying
in that connection that the company had. . . purchased a portion, of a line of a railroad
already built from New Orleans to Whitecastle, a distance
of sixty-eight miles; as to this portion of the road the company waived claim to the land granted. The residue of
the road, from Whitecastle to Shreveport, was built by
the company upon the belief of the full validity of their
right to the land granted, and without this benefit of the
grant the road would not have been built. The government railroad examiner reports the road substantially
built and equipped, and it would not appear to comport
with good faith to those who invested their money on the
basis of the grant to take advantage of any technical defect, if such exists, in the transfer to the company. I
would, therefore, respectfully suggest for the consideration
of Congress the propriety of passing an act curative of
defect, if any exists, in the transfer to the New Orleans
Pacific Company, and' vesting the title, originally granted
to the New Orleans, Baton Rouge and Vicksburg Rail-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.'
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

road Company from Whitecastle to Shreveport, in the
New Orleans Pacific Road."
With the matter thus brought to its attention Congress
passed the Act of February 8, 1887,1 c. 120, 24 Stat. 391.
By its first section a part of the grant, with which we are
not here concerned, was declared to be forfeited and was
restored to the public domain. By its second section the
part of the grant on the west side of the Mississippi River
opposite to and coterminous with the road from Whitecastle to Shreveport, which was constructed by the New
Orleans Pacific Railway Company as assignee of the
grant, was confirmed to that company save as it was declared in a proviso "that all said lands occupied by actual
settlers at the date of the definite location of said road and
still remaining in their possession or in possession of their
heirs or assigns shall be held and deemed excepted from
said grant and shall be subject to entry under the public
land laws of the United States." By this section the map
of November 17, 1882, was required to be treated as
the "definite location" of the part of the road opposite the
lands now in controversy. By the third section the confirmation in the second was conditioned on the acceptance
by the company of the provisions of the act. The fourth
section is not material here. The fifth section authorized
the Secretary of the Interior to make all needful rules and
regulations for carrying the act into effect. The sixth
section confirmed the patents already issued to the company, but with the express qualification that "the Secretary of the Interior is hereby fully authorized and inThe general history of the grant, together with the executive and
legislative action relating to it, up to the date of this act, is set forth at
length in the following: Senate Report No. 711, 47th Cong., 1st sess.;
17 Op. A. G. 370; Senate Ex. Doc. No. 31, 48th Cong., 1st sess.; House
Report No. 1556, 48th Cong., 1st sess.; House Ex. Doc. No. 1, pt. 5,
p. 43, 49th Cong., 1st sess.; House Report No. 2698, 49th Cong., 1st
sess.; House Ex. Doc. No. 1, pt. 5, p. 49, 49th Cong., 2d sess.

UNITED STATES ,. NEW ORLEANS PAC. RY. CO. 515
507.

Opinion of the Court.

structed to apply the provisions of the second, third,
fourth, and fifth sections of this act to any of said lands
that have been so patented, and to protect any and all
settlers on said lands in all their rights under the said
sections of this act."
The company duly accepted the provisions of the act
and in that way assented to and became bound by every
provision in it-the unfavorable as well as the favorable.
The provisions of special importance here are the prol1iso
in § 2 and the latter part of §6. By one all lands occupied
by actual settlers at the time of the definite location of the
road and remaining in their possession, or that of their
heirs or assigns, were "excepted from said grant" and
made "subject to entry under the public land laws"; and
by the other the Secretary of the Interior was authorized
and instructed to apply the same rule to all lands for which
patents already had been issued, and to protect all set-

tlers on such lands in their rights under the act.
It does not admit of any doubt that these provisions,
when accepted,, became applicable to all the unpatented
lands and to such of the patented lands as had not then
been sold by the company. Whether they also became
applicable to such of the patented lands as were sold
theretofore is a question which will be considered presently.

Of the lands in suit, 80 acres were both patented and
sold before the act was passed or accepted, 280 acres were
patented before the act was passed and sold after it was
accepted, and 120 acres were both patented and sold

after the acceptance. Thus all but 80 acres came certainly within the reach of the two provisions as accepted.
The 80 acres, as to which the question is left open for the
moment, are part of the tract in controversy in No. 166.
As before stated, the part of the road opposite these
lands was definitely located November 17, 1882. At
that time there was an actual settler on each of the 160-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

acre tracts. In each instance the settler had the qualifications named in the homestead law, was expecting to
acquire the title under that law, had placed on the land a
habitable dwelling in which he and his family were living,
had cleared, fenced and was cultivating several acres and
was asserting a claim to the entire tract. The settler in
No. 164 continued his residence, occupancy and cultivatiQn until 1896, when he died, and thereafter his widow
continued the occupancy and cultivation, either personally or through tenants. The settler in No. 165 continued his residence, occupancy and cultivation to the
time of the hearing in the District Court. And the settler
in No. 166 continued his residence, occupancy and cultivation until 1885, when he sold his improvements and
possessory right to another, who had the requisite qualifications and wished to acquire the title under the homestead law. The assignee then settled on the tract and
thereafter resided thereon with his family and continued
the occupancy and cultivation begun by his assignor.
While in No. 164 the widow, and in No. 166 the assignee,
succeeded to the rights of the original settler, we shall
speak of all the claims as if the original settlers were the
present claimants.
The existence and extent of these claims were well
known among the people of the neighborhood, and the
improvements and evidences of inhabitancy and cultiVation on each tract were suoh that any one purchasing
under the land grant would be charged with notice of the
nature and extent of the settler's claim.
The settlers applied at the local land office-one in J1888,
one in 1890 and the other in 1896-to make homestead
entries of the lands and the railway company opposed
their applications. Hearings were had and the contests
ultimately were determined in favor of the settlers-one in
1893, one in 1896 and the other in 1898. The decision in
each contest was to the effect that the proofs established

UNITED STATES v. NEW ORLEANS PAC. RY. CO. 517
507.

Opinion of the Court.

the right of the settler to receive the title' under the
proviso in § 2 and the latter part of § 6. All the lands had
then been patented, and the settlers were advised by the
regulations which the Secretary of the Interior had
adopted, as also by the decisions in the contests, that the
Land Department would secure a relinquishment of the
outstanding title for their benefit. 5 L. D. 688. In 1892,
before the contests were decided, the company and the
trustees of its land grant had filed the following stipulation
with the Secretary of the Interior, 15 L. D. 576:
"That in cases where patents have issued to said railway
company for lands which have been or may hereafter be
adjudged by the Commissioner of the General Land Office
to have been in the possession of actual settlers at date of
the definite location of said railway company's road, and
title is in said railway company, said railway company and
said trustees agree to make without delay conveyance
thereof to the United States; and where such lands have
been sold by said railway company to third persons, said
railway company undertakes to recover title thereto
without delay, and convey the same to said settlers or to
the United States, and the said trustees undertake to join
in such conveyances and to do all acts necessary on their
part to enable the railway company to carry out this
agreement and stipulation."
After the contests were decided the Land Department
called on the company to reconvey or surrender the title,
but this was not done; and the Secretary of the Interior
requested the Attorney General to institute judicial proceedings to secure for the settlers the protection promised
in the Act of 1887, which the company had accepted.
Acting on this request the Attorney General, on February 27, 1901, brought a suit in the name of the United
States against the railway company and others to cancel
and annul the patents to these and many other lands
similarly situated. Various obstacles were encountered in

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion ot the Court.

248 U. S.

the prosecution of that general suit, one being that the
purchasers from the company were not made parties, and
on January 21, 1915, while that suit was still pending, the
Attorney General brought the suits with which we axe now
concerned.
As the patents, were issued before, and the suits were
brought more than five years after, the Act of March 2,
1896, c. 39, 29 Stat. 42, the prayer that the patents be
canceled must be put out of view, and the alternative
prayer-that the title under the patents be declared to be
held in trust for the homestead claimants and. the trust
enforced-must be regarded as if standing alone.
The right of the United States to maintain the suits is
questioned on the ground that the enforcement of the
asserted trust is a matter in which the United States is
without interest or concern. Were the premise tenable,
the conclusion would follow as of course. But the premise
is not tenable. A pecuniary interest in the relief sought is
not-essential; it is enough if there be an interest or concern arising out of an obligation to those for whose benefit
the suits are brought. United States v. San Jacinto Tin
Co., 125 U. S. 273, 285-286; United States v. Beebe, 127
U. S. 338; United States v. American Bell Telephone Co.,
128 U. S. 315, 367; Heckman v. United States, 224 U. S.
413, 439. By the Act of 1887 the United States undertook
to invest settlers coming within the provisions of that
act with the title to the lands in their possession, and also
"to protect" them in that right. This meant that they
were to receive a clear title. The act charged the Secretary
of the Interior with the duty of adopting appropriate
measures to that end, and when other means failed he
invoked the aid of the Attorney General, who brought
these suits. Through them the United States seeks to
fulfill its obligation under the act to the settlers, and in this
it has the requisite interest or concern.
When the United States sues to enforce a public right

UNITED STATES v. NEW ORLEANS PAC. RY. CO. 519
507.

Opinion of the Court.

or to protect a public interest the defense of. laches is not
available; but when the suit, although in the name of the
United States, is brought for the benefit of a private
person his laches may be interposed with like effect as if
he were suing. United States v. Beebe, supra. Applying
this view, the court below reached the conclusion that the
settlers had been guilty of such laches as would bar them
.from the relief sought. We are unable to concur in that
conclusion. The occupancy of the settlers was both
peaceable and continuous and gave notice of their equitable rights. Their claims were asserted before the Land
Department, were the subjects of hearings and appeals,
and were by it sustained. The land officers, conformably
to the published regulations, undertook to secure a
restoration of the outstanding title, and to that end the
suit of 1901 was brought. The settlers were justified in
believing that their rights were being protected, as was
required by the Act of 1887. No attempt was made to
disturb their occupancy or to assert any right against
them. We therefore think it properly cannot be said that
they were guilty of any such laches as precluded them from
obtaining relief in equity. As a general rule, one who is in
peaceable possession under an equitable claim does not
subject himself to a charge of laches for mere delay in
resorting to equity to establish his claim against the holder
of the legal title where the latter manifests no purpose to
disturb him or to question his claim. Ruckman v. Cory,
129 U. S. 387, 389-390. We think that rule'is applicable
here.
On the merits, we are of opinion that the Act of 1887, as
accepted by the company, operated to exclude from the
grant and to subject to these settlement claims all the
lands in controversy, patented and unpatented, save the
80 acres which are yet to be specially noticed. In so far
as these lands were patented it became the duty of the
railway company to surrender the title, and in so far as

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

they were unpatented the act forbade the issue of patents
to the company for them. Intending purchasers were
bound to take notice of the occupancy of the settlers,
and this, with the Act of 1887, which was a public law,
renders untenable the claim that those who hold the title
under the patents have the status of bona fide purchasers.
In these circumstances the settlers, whose claims come
within the proviso in § 2 and the latter part of § 6, are
entitled to have a trust in their favor declared and enforced.
The situation as to the 80 acres which were both patented and sold before the Act of 1887 was passed is not
the same. Under an express provision of the Act of 1871,
they were withdrawn from entry and sale while they were
yet vacant and unclaimed, and the withdrawal was still
in force in 1885, when they were patented. No valid
claim to them could be initiated by settlement or otherwise in the presence of the withdrawal. Hamblin v. Western Land Co., 147 U. S. 531, 536; Wood v. Beach, 156 U. S.
548; Spencer v. McDougal, 159 U. S. 62. They were part
of an odd-numbered section within the primary limits and
opposite a twenty-mile section of the road which was
constructed, completed, put in running order and accepted by the President before they were patented. In
other words, they were lawfully patented and when the
company sold them, in 1886, it had the right to do so.
The purpose of the granting act in directing that patents
be issued as each section of twenty miles of road was
completed was to enable the company to sell the lands and
realize on the grant. In these circumstances the purchase
was bona fide and the purchaser took the full title. It
follows that before the Act of 1887 was passed the 80
acres-described as the S. Y2 of N. W. 14 of Sec. 3, T. 3 N.,
R. 7 W., L. M.-had passed into hands where they were
not within the reach of the act or the company's acceptance. The fact that this land was sold before the

OELWERKE TEUTONIA v. ERLANGER.
507.

Syllabus.

act was passed seems not to have been brought to the
attention of the Land Department-probably because
the purchaser was not a party to the contest proceedings.
The contention is made that the portions of that act
which are material here do not embrace lands within
the indemnity limits, but only those within the primary
limits. A survey of the entire act shows that the contention is without merit.
No. 164. Decree reversed.
No. 165. Decree reversed.
No. 166. Decree affirmed as to S. 1 2 of N. W. 14 of Sec. 3,
T. 3 N., R. 7 W., L. M., and reversed as to the other
lands.

OELWERKE TEUTONIA v. ERLANGER ET AL.,
PARTNERS

UNDER

THE

FIRM

NAME

OF

ERLANGER & GALINGER.
ERLANGER ET AL., PARTNERS UNDER THE
FIRM NAME OF ERLANGER & GALINGER, v.
OELWERKE TEUTONIA.
APPEALS FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE
ISLANDS.
Nos. 162, 181.

Submitted January 20, i919.-Decided February 3, 1919.

A finding that a vessel was abandoned, concurred in by the court of
first instance and the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands, in a
salvage case, will be accepted by this court when -supported by
evidence. P. 524.
Unless there has been some violation of principle or clear mistake,
appeals to this court on the ainounts allowed for salvage are not encouraged. Id.
The right of a speculative salvor is to share in the benefit resulting

