FINK v. COUNTY COMMISSIONERS.
392.

Counsel for Plaintiffs in Error.

to support them, but the contract determines against
them and the reasons for assigning to it that effect we
have given in our opinions in the other cases.
We, therefore, answer the questions certified in the affirmative.
So ordered.

FINK ET AL., TRUSTEES &c., v. BOARD OF
COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF MUSKOGEE
COUNTY, OKLAHOMA, ET AL.
ERROR

TO

THE

SUPREME

COURT

OF

THE

STATE

OF

OKLAHOMA.

No. 43.

Argued December 13, 16, 1918.-Decided January 13, 1919.

Through the Act of May 27, 1908, c. 199, 35 Stat. 312, restrictions on
alienation were removed from a Creek Indian allotment which,
under the Creek Supplemental Agreement of June 30, 1902, c. 1323,
ยง 16, 32 Stat. 500, and the Oklahoma Enabling Act and Constitution, was exempt from taxation. The Act of 1908 provides "that
all land from which restrictions have been or shall be removed shall
be subject to taxation," etc. Upon conveyance by the allottee,
held, that the tract was subject to state taxation in the hands of the
grantees, for by taking their title under the Act of 1908 they took
subject to its conditions and policy. P. 402.
The Act of May 27, 1908, .supra, granting the right of alienation, invades no right of the Indian in making the exercise of that right a
surrender of the exemption from taxation. P. 404.
Quwre as to how far a grantee of an Indian may avail himself of the
Indian's right to assert the unconstitutionality of an act of Congress.
P. 405.
affirmed.
59 Oklahoma, -,

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Charles B. Rogers, with whom Mr. W. 0. Cromwell
and Mr. George W. .Buckner were on the briefs, for plaintiffs in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

Mr. S. P. Freeling, Attorney General of the State of
Oklahoma, with whom Mr. R. E. Wood and Mr. Hunter L.
Johnson, Assistant Attorneys General of the State of
Oklahoma, and Mr. W. W. Cotton were on the brief, for
defendants in error.
Mr. Edmund Lashley, by leave of court, filed a brief as
amicus cyrim.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
The question in the case is whether land allotted to an
Indian of the Creek Tribe exempt from taxation in the
hands of the Indian is exempt in the hands of a purchaser
from the Indian.
Considering that the land was so exempt, in other
words, that the exemption went with the land, in subsequent hands, the suit was commenced by plaintiffs in
error, here called plaintiffs, to restrain the collection of
taxes upon part of the land which had become lots i" the
town of Muskogee. There was a demurrer to the petition
by defendant in error, here called defendant, which by
stipulation of counsel was submitted solely on the question of exemption, other questions being reserved.
The stipulation recited that plaintiffs sought an injunction against the taxes assessed or hereafter assessed against
the lots for the reason that they had been a part of the
homestead of Eliza J. Murphy, a Creek Indian allottee
and a citizen and member of the Creek Tribe or Nation,
and for that reason the lots were exempt from taxation
for the period of twenty-one years from the date of the
deed or patent.
IThe District Court overruled the demurrer and enjoined the collection of the taxes. The judgment was
reversed by the Supreme Court and the plaintiffs then

FINK v. COUNTY COMMISSIONER1S.
399.

Opinion of the Court.

dismissed their petition as to all other grounds of relief
than that the taxes "were illegal and void because prohibited by the contract, constitution, laws and treaties
of the United States."
A petition for rehearing was denied and a judgment
entered sustaining the demurrer and dismissing the petition.
The elements of decision are certain acts of Congress,
the deed to Eliza J. Murphy, her deed to plaintiffs, and
certain provisions in the constitution of the State of
Oklahoma.
The lands of which the lots involved were a part were
allotted to Eliza J. Murphy by virtue of the Act of Congress of March 1,1901, and that of June 30, 1902 (31 Stat.
861; 32 Stat. 500). The latter act is known as the Creek
Supplemental Agreement and provides (ยง 16) that an
allotment shall not be encumbered or subject to forced
sale for five years, except with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior. And the section requires that
each citizen of the Tribe "shall select from his allotment
forty acres of land, or a quarter of a quarter section,
as a homestead, which shall be and remain nontaxable,
inalienable, and free from any incumbrance whatever
for twenty-one years from the date of the deed therefor,
and a separate deed shall be issued to each allottee for
his homestead, in which this condition shall appear."
A deed was made to Eliza J. Murphy on April 20, 1903,
and, following the statute, expressed the non-taxability
and inalienability and freedom from incumbrance for the
designated period of exemption.
There were provisions in the Enabling Act of the State
under which its constitution was drawn which preserved
the rights of persons and property of the Indians so long
as such rights should remain unextinguished and provided
that nothing in the constitution should be construed to
limit or affect the authority of the United States respect-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

ing the Indians, their lands, their property or their rights.
And the constitution exempted from taxation such property as might be exempt by reason of treaty stipulations
existing between the Indians and' the United States or
by federal laws during the force and effect of such treaties and laws. -Plaintiffs rely on these provisions and the
deed to Eliza J. Murphy for their contentions, fortified,
they assert, by decisions of this court.
To the contentions defendant opposes the Act of Congress of May 27, 1908, c. 199, 35 Stat. 312, which removed
the existing restrictions on the homestead allotment,
thereby enabling the allottee to sell the land, and which
provides ".', . . that all land from which restrictions
have been or shall be removed shall be subject to taxation ,and all other civil burdens as though it were property of bther persons than allottees of the Five Civilized
Tribes."
The contention based on this act is that by the Creek
Supplemental Agreement, supra, the non-taxability and
inalienability and freedom from incumbrance of the land
were correlatives and to a certain extent, therefore, interdependent, a combination of limitations and rights,
and as they existed together they disappeared together.
And their co-existence depended upon the Indian and
because it did there was no limitation or infringement of
rights or impairment of contract. Plaintiffs, it is further
contended, are in no better situation, as they only got
title by virtue of the Act of May 27, 1908, removing the
restriction upon alienation and they cannot avail themselves of it and repudiate it at the same time.
The Supreme Court of the State yielded to these contentions and gave special effect to the Act of 1908 which
it considered "a comprehensive revision of the laws relating to the Five Civilized Tribes and their lans,"
that by it "the free right of alienation was granted,"
and as the plaintiffs "took their title to the lots they are

FINK v. COUNTY COMMISSIONERS.
399.

Opinion of the Court.

seeking to exempt from taxation by virtue of the terms of
this act, they cannot go behind it. But for that act they
could not have purchased the lands in question. They
took subject to all the conditions of that act, and they
cannot now claim the benefits of the exemption from taxation granted to the allottee by the Creek Supplemental
Agreement. Goudy v. Meath, 203 U. S.146."
In resistance to the contentions of the defendant and
the conclusions of the court, plaintiffs adduce Choate v.
Trapp, 224 U. S. 665, and certain cases decided upon its
authority, that is, Gleason v. Wood, id. 679; English v.
Richardson, id. 680.
Choate v. Trapp has not the extent assigned to it. In
that case the State of Oklahoma undertook to tax lands
which were yet in the hands of the Indians, asserting, the
right simply because of the removal of the restrictions
upon alienation by the Act of May 27, 1908, supra. The
reply of this court was that the law (Curtis Act of June 28,
1898, 30 Stat. 505) as modified by the Act of July 1,
1902, c. 1362, 32 Stat. 641, provided that all of the lands
allotted should "be nontaxable while the title remains
in the original allottee." There was no question in the
case, and could not be, of the effect of alienation-an
exercise of the right conferred by the Act of May 27, 1908,
and the consequence of such exercise. It is true it was
said that "exemption and non-alienability were two sepa.rate and distinct subjects" and that "one conferred a right
and the other imposed a limitation." The distinctiori was
apt for that case. The State contended that there was
no tax exemption but that that provision was only directed against the absolute alienation of the land. This
was, in effect, a contention that the power of alienation
unexercised was the same as the power exercised, and to
correct this confusion it was declared that the provision
exempting from taxation was a property right. But it was
a property right in the Indian, preserved to him not only

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

for his own interest but in the interest of the policy of the
United States regarding him. Kansas Indians, 5 Wall.
737; United States v. Rickert, 188 U. S. 432; cases cited in
Choate v. Trapp. At first his interest was put beyond his
control; by the Act of May 27, 1908, it was committed
to his control, this also satisfying the policy of the United
States under the changed conditions. It invades no right
of the Indian, therefore, to make the alienation of the
land a surrender of the exemption from taxation, and we
concur in the conclusion of the Supreme Court of the
State that plaintiffs having taken title under the act cannot repudiate its conditions and its manifest policy. New
Jersey v. Wilson, 7 Cranch, 164, is not in point. We are
not dealing with rights in the abstract; we are dealing with
rights under special conditions and as determined by acts
of the parties under a law of Congress which was availed
of by the Indian and.a grantee of the Indian, and which,
therefore, bound them by its conditions and subjected
the land in the hands of the grantee to the usual burdens
of government. It is an error to suppose that this takes
anything of value from the Indian. We may here invoke
the commonplace, for it is commonplace to say that we
only know the value of a thing by that which makes its
worth. Under the restriction against the alienation the
land had no worth but in its uses; the restriction removed,
it had the added worth of exchangeability for other things
-a power of sale was conferred. To say there was no
value in that power is to contradict the examples and estimations of the world. It may be that if exemption from
taxation went with the land it might become an element
in *the price (worth in money) which the Indian might
ask and receive, but that was not of concern to the purpose
of the law, which was to give to the Indian all of the attributes of ownership, to give him a mastery of his property equal to that of other owners of property, and nothing
more, and this consummated the new policy of Congress.

COCHNOWER v. UNITED STATES.
399.

Counsel for Parties.

Further discussion we deem unnecessary, but we may
observe that in Tiger v. Western Investment Co., 221 U. S.
286, 310, and in Williams v. Johnson, 239 U. S. 414, 420,
421, a question was intimated whether a grantee of an
Indian could avail himself of the Indian's right, if he
had any, to assert the unconstitutionality of an act of
Congress. Opinion, however, was reserved, and we reserve it here, and rest the case on the grounds we have
discussed.
Judgment affirmed.

COCHNOWER v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 80.

Argued December 16, 1918.-Decided January 13, 1919.

Primarily, the creation of offices and the assignment of their compensation is a legislative function; and the fact and the extent of any delegation of it must clearly appear.
The Act of March 4, 1909, c. 314, 35 Stat. 1065, authorizing the Secretary of the Treasury "to increase and fix" the compensation of
inspectors of customs, as he may think advisable, etc., did not empower him to decrease their salaries.
51 Ct. Clms. 461, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. William E. Russell, with whom Mr. Seward G.
Spoor, Mr. Louis T. Michener and Mr. Perry G. Michener
were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Thompson and Mr.
Harvey D. Jacob, for the United States, submitted.

