POSTAL TEL-CABLE CO. v. TONOPAH R. R. CO. 471
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

POSTAL TELEGRAPH-CABLE COMPANY v. TONOPAH & TIDEWATER RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR

TO

THE

SUPEME

COURT,

APPELLATE

DIVISION,

FIRST DEPARTMENT, OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY v.
BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

POSTAL TELEGRAPH-CABLE COMPANY v.
CHICAGO GREAT WESTERN RAILROAD.
APPEAL FROM -THE jCIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

Nos., 130, 217, 404.

Argued January 7, 9, 1919.-Decided January 20, 1919.

The amendment of June 18, 1910, which brought telephone, telegraph,
and cable companies within the Act to Regulate Commerce, contains
a proviso (§ 7) that nothing in the act shall be construed to prevent
such companies "from entering into contracts with common carriers, for the exchange of services." Held, that the exchange of
services may extend to those rendered by a telegraph company for a
railway company beyond the line of the railway and those rendered
by the railway company for the telegraph company beyond the line
'of the telegraph; and may be arranged upon the basis of reciprocal
advantage, without regard to the rates chargeable fo- similar services
to the public. P. 474.
176 App. Div. 910; 242 Fed. Rep.. 914; 249 Fed. Rep. 664, affirmed.

THE cases are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Jacob E. Dittus and Mr. Ode L. Rankin, with
whom.Mr. William W. Cook and Mr. Bynum E. Hinton

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

were on the briefs, for plaintiff in error and appellant in
Nos. 130 and 404.
No appearance for defendant in error in No. 130.
Mr. Ralph M. Shaw, with whom Mr. 'Jeorge A. Kelly
was on the brief, for appellee in No. 404.
Mr. Rush Taggart for appellant in No. 217.
Mr. J. DuPrattWhite, with whom Mr. George F. Brownell and Mr. Vermont Hatch were on the brief, for appellee
in No. 217.
Mr. Charles W. Needham, with whom Mr. P. J. Forrell
was on the brief, for the Interstate Commerce Commission, as amicus curice, by special leave.
MR. JUSTICE

HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

The first of these cases, Postal Telegraph-Cable Co. v.
Tonopah & Tidewater R. R. Co., was a suit in the Municipal Court of the City of New York for services rendered to the Railroad Company. The defendant set up
that the services consisted of the sending of telegrams
relating to the defendant's business and were covered by
a contract such as usually is made between railroads and
telegraphs, under which such telegrams were to be sent
free of specific charge. The question raised was the validity of the agreement. The Court decided that it was
valid and judgment for the defendant was affirmed on
appeal. The next case in number, Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., was brought by
the Railroad Company in the District Court of the United
States for the Southern District of New York and sets
up a similar contract, which the Telegraph Company

POSTAL TEL.-CABLE CO. v. TONOPAH R. R. CO. 473
471.

Opinion of the Court.

now refuses to perform in consequence of a ruling of the
Interstate Commerce Commission. It prays a declaration of the validity of the contract and specific performance. The plaintiff obtained a decree in the District Court,
241 Fed. Rep. 162, which was affirmed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals, 242 Fed. Rep. 914. The last of the
three cases, Postal Telegraph-Cable Co. v. Chicago Great
Western Railroad, was another bill in equity, brought by
the Railroad Company in the District Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Illinois upon a similar
contract, to prevent a multiplicity of suits by the TelegTaph Company like that first above mentioned, to have
the validity of the contract declared, and to obtain a
decree that it be performed. The defendant prevailed
in the District Court, 245 Fed. Rep. 592, but the decision
was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, and there
the plaintiff obtained a decree. 249 Fed. Rep. 664. The
only question upon which our decision is sought is the
validity of the agreements, which are so far alike as to
present a single issue here.
The contracts elaborately provide for the reciprocal
rights of the companies, for a division cf expenses between
the railroad and telegraph, for the use by the telegraph
of the railroad's right of way for its poles, for monthly
payment of a certain sum by the telegraph, and then
agree, this being the point now material, that up to a
certain amount calculated at the regular day rates of
the telegraph, it should deliver free of charge messages pertaining to the railroad business to any points on its system
on or beyond the railroad lines, and that up to an amount
calculated in similar manner the railroad should transport
the materials, supplies and employees of the telegraph,
needed for the construction, maintenance or renewal of
the telegraph lines whether on or off the lines of the road.
The latest ruling of the Interstate Commerce Commission
is that these contracts for an exchange of service while

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

valid for services on the line are invalid as to services off
the line, which last, it is held, must be charged for by
the railroad upon the basis of its published rates and by
the telegraph upon that of its charges reasonably charged
to other customers for similar services. The Commission
construes in this way a proviso added to § 1 of the Act
to Regulate Commerce by an amendment of June 18,
1910, c. 309, § 7. [36 Stat. 539, 544.] This amendment
brought telegraph, telephone and cable companies within
the act but also inserted a proviso "that nothing in this
Act shall be construed to prevent telephone, telegraph,
and cable companies from entering into contracts with
common carriers, for the exchange of services." The
question more specifically stated is whether the construction adopted by the Commission is right.
We do not see how that construction can be got from
the words of the act. The words are general and as
certainly allow services off the line as services on it to be
exchanged. In fact they do so almost in terms by allowing common carriers to exchange with cable companies.
This being obvious, it is said that while the abstinence
of the act from preventing exchanges covers the whole
ground, the exchange of services off the line must be
on the terms that we have stated, which makes the act
as to them merely a superfluous permission to settle
accounts periodically instead of paying for each trans;action in cash. But "exchange" is barter and carries
with it no implication of reduction to money as a common
denominator. It contemplates simply an estimate, determined by self interest, of the relative value and importance of the services rendered and those received.
This is admitted with regard to services on the line, and
if so whatever services can be exchanged can be exchanged
in the same way. We cannot follow the argument from
Santa Fe, Prescott & Phenix Ry. Co. v. Grant Brothers
Construction Co., 228 U. S. 177,, that the exchange properly

POSTAL TEL.-CABLE CO. v. TONOPAH R. R. CO. 475
471.

Opinion of the Court.

so called should be confined to cases where the common
carrier is not acting as such. That seems to us a perverse conclusion from a proviso permitting "common
carriers"to exchange.
Nothing is gained by referring to the provisions in
other sections or to those of the section to which the
proviso is attached, for the provision is that nothing in
the act, in whatever section it may occur, shall be twisted
into preventing the exchange. The passion for equality
sometimes leads to hollow formulas and the attempt to
bring these arrangements under the head of undue preferences and the like hardly seems a natural result of the
statute. No one knows which of the two would be found
to be preferred as having the best of a very complex
bargain. All the great benefits derived on one side are
the consideration for all those conferred upon the other.
The railroad and the telegraph have grown together in
mutual dependence and we are told that contracts of
this sort for long terms have been nearly universal for
fifty years. The contracts had been called to the atten'tion of Congress repeatedly by the Commission, which,
in December, 1906, stated that, so far as it could see, the
full performance of them by the carriers would not affect
any public or private interest adversely. It held however
that under the law as it then stood contracts for services
off the line were unlawful. 12 I. C. C. 10, 12. Then the
amendment of 1910 was passed, and passed, we must
suppose, having the opinion of the Commission and the
notorious long-standing form of existing contracts in
view. The contracts are complex, as we have said, and
entire. We cannot believe that an act which purported
to allow them meant to break them up. The Commission
seems not to have believed it in its first ruling upon the
amended act.
Our opinion is confirmed by a consideration of the
further additions to §1, in 1910, allowing free passes to

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

248 U. S.

be given to the employees of telegraph, telephone and
cable lines, and by some further matters of detail referred
to in the judgments of the Courts below of which we have
cited the reports. The interdependence of the companies
i+ very intimate, and the trouble that would be caused

by a narrow construction of the act we believe would be
great, with no advantage so far as we can see to any
other users of the lines or roads.

We do not go into more

minute discussion because the result reached must stand
on the plain words of the act, the meaning of which is

confirmed rather than made doubtful by the circumstances
in which the proviso was enacted and the events that had
gone before.
Judgment and decrees affirmed.

BANK OF CALIFORNIA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, v. RICHARDSON, TREASURER OF THE
STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 262. Submitted October 14, 1918.-Decided January 27, 1919.
The extent to which the States may tax the property or the shares of
national banks is determined exclusively by § 5219 of tht Revised
Statutes. P. 482.
The object of the section is to avoid withdrawing the financial resources
of national banks from the reach of state taxation, and at the same
time to protect the banks as federal agencies from state interference.
It therefore, with certain restrictions, permits the shares of the bank
to be taxed to the shareholders, and, in that aspect treats the ultimate
beneficial interest of the bank and the shareholders as one, subject to
but one taxation and -by that method only. P. 483.
It follows, (1) that the interest represented by shares of a state bank,

