NICOULIN '. O'BRIEN.
112.

Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

Plaintiffs in error maintain that the statute is class
legislation which abridges their rights and privileges,
that it deprives them of the equal, protection of the laws
and also of their property without due process of lawall in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Manifestly, the purpose of the State was to prevent
certain evils incident to the business of commission
merchants in farm products by regulating it. Many
former opinions have pointed out the limitations upon
powers of the States concerning matters of this kind,
and we think the present record fails to show that these
limitations have been transcended. Rast v. Van Deman
& Lewis Co., 240 U. S. 342; Brazee v. Michigan, 241 U.
S. 340; Adams v. Tanner, 244 U. S. 590.
The judgment of the court below is
Affirmed.

NICOULIN v. O'BRIEN.
ERROR

TO

THE COURT

OF

APPEALS

OF

THE

STATE

OF

KENTUCKY.
No. 113.

Submitted October 21, 1918.-Decided December 9, 1918.

The territorial limits of Kentucky extend across the Ohio River to
low-water mark on the Indiana side, and no limitation on the power
of Kentucky to protect fish within those limits by proper legislation
resulted from the establishment of concurrent jurisdiction by the
Virginia Compact.
172 Kentucky, 473, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Augustvs Everett Willson for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Richard Priest Dietzman and Mr. Edmund Andrew
Larkin were also on the brief.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

Mr. D. A. Sachs, Jr., for defendant in error. Mr. Jos. G.
Sachs, Jr., was also on the brief.

Memorandum opinion by MR.

JUSTICE McREYNOLDS.

Plaintiff in error was adjudged guilty of violating the
prohibition of a Kentucky statute by seining for fish in
the Ohio River south of low-water mark on the Indiana
side. 172 Kentucky, 473. We are asked to hold that by
reason of the Virginia Compact (13 Hening's Statutes
at Large, c. 14, pp. 17, 19), Kentucky had no power to
regulate fishing in the river dt that point without Indiana's
concurrence. The provision relied upon is this: "Seventh,
that the use and navigation of the river Ohio, so far as the
territory of the proposed state, or the territory which
shall remain within the limits of this Commonwealth lies
thereon, shall be free and coonmon to the citizens of the
United Stateg, and the respective jurisdictions of this
Commonwealth and of the proposed state on the river as
aforesaid, 'shall be concurrent only with the states which
may possess the opposite shores of the said river."
The territorial limit of Kentucky extend across the
river to low-water mark on the northerly shore. Indiana
v. Kentucky, 136 T. S.479, 519. And we think it clear
tbat no limitation upon the power of that Commonwealth
Co protect fish within her own boundaries by proper,
legislation resulted from the mere establishment of concurrent jurisdiction by the Virginia Compact. See Wed-ding v. Meyler, 192 U. S.573; Central R. R. Co. v. Jersey
City, 209 U. S. 473; Nielsen v. Oregon, 212 U. S. 315;
McGo2Van v. Columbia River Packers' Assn., 245 U. S.
352.
The Judgmen t below is
Affirmed.

