BLISS CO. i,. UNITED STATES.
35.

Syllabus.

pose of the controversy but to cite the two lines of cases
referred to. (1) Snyder v. Deeds, 91 Ohio St. 407; Miami
County v. Dayton, 92 Ohio St. 215; County Commissioners
v. Gates, 83 Ohio St. 19, 34; State ex rel. Franklin County
Conservancy District v. Valentine, 94 Ohio St. 440; (2)
Houck v. Little River Drainage District, 239 U. S. 254,
262, and cases cited.
Affirmed.

E. W. BLISS COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 15.

Argued November 20, 21, 1918.-Decided December 9, 1918.

In a contract for supplying torpedoes, the manufacturer agreed with
the Government not to make use of any device the design for which
was furnished to it by the United States, in torpedoes constructed
for other persons or governments, and not to disclose such devices,
but no device or design was to come within the prohibition unless
so designated in writing by the Government at the time when it was
conveyed to the manufacturer.
HIeld: (1) That the obligation to secrecy was not confined to devices
which were' secret, or to inventions by the United States, but extended to such as were furnished-communicated with certainty-,
and designated for secrecy, by the United States, even where the
design was subsequently worked out by employees of the manufacturer. Pp. 43-48.
(2) That injunction against disclosure should be confined to devices
in use, but without prejudice to the right of the Government to
enjoin disclosure of others, upon proof of intention to make use of
them. P. 48.
Davison patent relating to propulsion of torpedoes construed. P. 44.
224 Fed. Rep. 325; 229 Fed. Rep. 376, modified and affirmed.

TH9 case is stated in 'the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Appellant.

21S U. S.

Mr. George W. Field, with whom Mr. Frank H. Platt
and Mr. 'Eli J. Blair were on the briefs, for appellant:
To furnish a design, it is necessary to furnish something concrete. So of a device. One cannot exhibit an
idea. A device has been defined as a thing "devised or
formed by design; a contrivance; an invention." "Device" meant some contrivance which could be installed
in the torpedo.
The Government has published by the Davison patent
and otherwise the nature of the balanced turbine and has
therefore waived secrecy. This clause must be construed
against the Government because drawn by it. Further,
it is a restriction on the defendant's power of alienation
of its own property.
It should be construed to avoid absurdity or unfair
dvantage to one party Over the other. Bell v. Bruen,
1 How. 169; Sanford v. Brown Brothers Co., 208 N. Y. 90.
The balanced turbine principle being public property,
the Government could not furnish it to the defendant.
The purpose was to prevent knowledge of new inventions going to the other nations. By the issuance of
patents, both domestic and foreign, this purpose is frustrated by the plaintiff itself.
As no irreparable injury can be suffered by repetition
of such knowledge, injunction was improper.
The position of the defendant is analogous to that of
the holder of a trade secret. Once a trade secret has become generally known, regardless of the contract betwen
the parties, its further promulgation will not be protected
by injunction. Bell & Bogart Soap Co. v. Petrolia Mfg.
Co., 25 Misc. (N. Y.) 66; National Tube Co. v. Eatern
Tube Co., 23 Ohio C. C. 468; Chain Belt Co. v, Von Spreckelsen, 117 Wisconsin, 106.
Mr. Assistant to the Attorney ,eneral Todd, with whom
Mr. A. F. Myers wAs on th6 brief, for the United States.

BLISS CO. ii. UNITED STATES.
37.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Appeal from a decree of the United States Circuit
Co-art of Appeals amending and affirming a decree of the
District Court for the Eastern District of New York
entered in a suit brought by the United States against
appellant (herein referred to as the Bliss Company) restraining the latter from exhibiting or communicating
the construction and operation of a torpedo known as the
Bliss-Leavitt torpedo.
The controversy turns upon the construction and application of certain clauses of the contracts between the
Bliss Company and the United States and is not, we
think, in broad compass. In support of its contention
in the main the United States has the sanction of the
two courts.
The development, construction and operation of the
torpedo gave animation and attraction to the argument,
but it is enough to say that its method of propulsion is
the balanced turbine method, so called, that is, turbines
revolving in opposite directions. The United States
asserts that to this method of propulsion the excellence
and efficacy of the t6rpedo is due and that it was the
conception of the United States; that it was the result
of much experimentation or the part of its engineers and
those of the Bliss Company and the expenditure of substantial sums of money by the Governmcnt, and that
because of the superior speed, range and power of this
new weapon, other nations have been eager to learn the
secrets of its construction.
The Bliss Company denies these assertions, opposes
them, besides, by the contentions that the balancing of
rotary bodies analogous to turbines rotating in opposite
directions was a matter of conunon knowledge long prior
to any transactions with the United States and that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 1. S.

torpedoes constructed by it under its contract contained
balanced turbines, so called, of its own design and property; or, to quote counsel: "The torpedo is the product-of
the assiduity and genius of the defendant's officers and
And,
engineers, and not that of the Government."
further, that it purchased from Lieutenant Davison,
with full knowledge of the UAited States, all of his rights
to foreign patents, and to this patent, it is said, the United
States assigns a special excellence. This is the issue in
outline. The Bliss Company asserts the right to have
other customers than the United States and to seek
other markets, and not subject to restriction by the
United States. The United States claims an exclusive
service and even concealment frofn all others except as
it may concede it. The resolution of the contentions is
in the contract of the parties.
Their txiansactions date to 1905 and are exhibited in
three contracts, one of November 22, 1905, one of June 12,
1912, and an intervening one dated June 16, 1909.' In
the 1905 contract there was a provision which it is admitted was embodied in all subsequent contracts. Disputes arose as to the meaning of the provision, the rights
and restraints under it, and the r'Kiss Company brought
them to litigation by expressing its desire to negotiate with
Messrs. Whitehead & Company for tho right to manufacture the torpedo in foreign countries. The Bureau of
Ordnance objected, and on May 9, 1913, the company addressed the Secretary of the Navy as follows: "As a npeans
to this end we notify you hereby that it is our intention
to communicate the complete construction and operation
of the existing type of Bliss-Leavitt torpedo, and to make
a demonstration of the operation of said torpedo, to a
representative of Messrs. Whitehead and Company on
or immediately after June 1, 1913."
To restrain the threatened action this suit was brought.
The prayer of the bill covers the balanced turbine and'

BLISS CO. r. UNITED STATES.
37.

Opinion of the Court.

certain other features, and it. is manifest that whether it
should be granted depends particularly upon a provision
of the contract which prohibits the exhibition of the torpedo or its performance to any person whatsoever or to
any other government, or its representatives than that
of the United States. That provision is that the Bliss
Company "will not make use of any device the design for
which is furnished to it" by the United States "in any
torpedo constructed or to be constructed for any person
or persons, firms, corporations, or others, or for other
governments than" the United States and "will not exhibit such device or .in any way describe it to or give any
information in regard to it to any person

.

.

.

or to

other governments, or their rep-esentatives" or exhibit its
performance "either in shop or in service tests." -A violation of the contract incurs its cancellation and releases
the United States from all claims or demands under it.
It is, however, provided that no design shall be considered
as coming within the provisions unless the United States
communicates in writing to the Bliss Company that it
(the United States) thinks, it is embraced by the provision.' It is disputed whether the condition of the pro"Nineteenth.
It is hereby expressly further stipulated, covenanted, and agreed, that the party of the first part will not make use of
any device the design for which is furnished to it by the party of the
second part in any torpedo constructed or to be constructed for any
person or persons, firms, corporations, or others, or for other governments than the party of the second part hereto; that the party of the
first part will not exhibit such devike or in any way describe it to or
give any information in regard to it to any person or persons, firms,
corporations, or others, or to other governments, or their representatives, than the party of the second part hereto; that the party of the
first part will not exhiibit the performance of any torpedo containing
such device, either in shop or in service tests, to any person or persons,
firms, corporations, or others, or to other governments, or their representatives, than the party of the second part hereto:
"Provided furthermore, That no device or design shall be considered

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U, S.

vision was performed, but both the lower courts have
found that it was, and we concur in their judgment.
The condition of the provision, then, having been performed, we come to its meaning, the Bliss Company
contending that the device must be of the invention of the
United States, and the latter contending that it need only
be "furnished" by the United States.
The Bliss Company's contention in its detail is somewhat difficult to state concisely. It rests as much in
implication as in expression. It is said that the restrictive
clause "applies only to a 'device the design for which
is furnished by the Government"' and "expressly and
clearly excludes ideas, methods or principles." And it
is further urged that "to furnish a design, it is necessary
to furnish something concrete. A device also is something
as coming within the provisions of this clause unless the party of the
second part shall state to the party of the first part in writing, at the
time when the said device or design is itself conveyed to the party of
the first part by written communication from the party of the second
part, that the party of the second part considers that the said device
or design is embraced within the provisions of this clause."
In the contract of June 12, 1912, the foregoing clause became clause
Twentieth. The 1912 contract contained, however, in the second
clause, the following new matter, which (save that part enclosed by
brackets) had not been included in previous contracts:
"[Second. The manufacture of said torpedoes) (the word 'torpedoes' as used throughout this contract being intended to include everything covered by the drawings, plans, and specifications above referred
to) [shall coinform in all respects to and with said drawings, plans and
specifications], including duly authorized changes therein, but said
drawings, plans and specifications are not hereto annexed or made a
part hereof. They contain information of a confidential character
that can not be made, public without detriment to the Goverrment's
and the contractor's interests, and they are to be treated as confidential
by the parties to this contract, it being understood, however, that nothing in this clause shall be construed as depriving the party of the first
part of the right to make and sell such torpedoes to any other party or
government whatsoever, except as limited by clause twentieth of this
contract."

BLISS CO. v. UNITED STATES.
37.

Opinion of the Court.

concrete. One cannot exhibit an idea." To support
these declarations legal and other definitions are adduced.
One is selected from Armour Packing Co. v. United States,
209 U.S.56, which explains a device to be a thing "devised or formed by design; a contrivance; an invention."
It is hence asserted that the United States did not comply
with these definitional requirements-indeed, from the
state of the art, could not; and therefore could not impose
secrecy upon the Bliss Company.
The tangibility of the definitions and the arguments
based upon them are not very clear nor what purpose they
tend to establish. The company asserts a right to employ the principle of propulsion and this principle it
asserts to be-to quote counsel-" the balancing of rotary
bodies analogous to turbines rotating in opposite directions and of equal speeds for the. purpose of eliminating
gyroscopic effect," and that it was "long prior to 1906
[the first contract was made in 1905] a matter of common
knowledge and known to the defendant" (the company);
and again, "The balanced turbine principle was public
property and not the property of the Government. It
was a matter of public knowledge and not a secret."
Therefore, as we have said, the contention is that it was
not within the prohibition of the contracts. Immediately
it may be asked: This being the condition, of what value
was the restrictive clause to the Government? Surely the
Government sought to secure something valuable and
practical, and yet it was apparently only the promise of
words never to have effective realization. Instead of
security the Government got a controversy. Anything
it might offer or suggest or, to use the word of the contract, "furnished," would be open to dispute and the
charge of being anticipated, already in existence among
the things available to the company as "public property
and not the property of the Government" -"a matter
of public knowledge and not a secret." And theGovern-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 T

.

ment could not even fortify itself by the presumptions
of a patent. To have done so would have been to break
the seal of secrecy and relieve the company from the
obligations imposed by the contract. To this contention
the Bliss Company is driven to get rid of the Davison
patent, the design for which was furnished the company
by the United States. Counsel say: "Assuming that the
particular design of a balanced turbine produced by
Davison was a secret, itlost every attribute of a secret
upon the issuance by the United States Government of
letters patent to Davison." And further: "The issuance
of this patent, therefore, became an act of the Navy Department. Thus, the Government through the same
department by which it entered into the several contracts
with the defendant [the company], caused the alleged
secret of the balanced turbine to be laid open to the publie." And, besides, it is said that the Government "tacitly
permitted Davison, one of its officers and subject to its
discipline, to assign" to the company "foreign patents
for the device in issue"; and that therefore "it cannot
now successfully contend that its design is within the
restrictive clause." But this gives an exaggerated effect
of publicity to a patent and cannot dispense with the
explicit obligation of the restrictive clause. Indeed, we
may repeat, Of what avail was the restrictive clause to
the Government under the contentions of the company?
It was assured of nothing but opposition and litigation.
We may cite in further illustration of this that the li.ss
Company asserts that the Davison device was without
novelty in the field of "opposite revolving turbines" (another name for a balanced turbine) and that all he did
was to take a "design of unbalbnced turbine shown"
in a prior patent "and reverse one of the turbine wheels
with the incidental and necessary change in the gear ing."
The assertion is that "the designing of this gearing is what
occupied Lieutenant Davison's 'time and tho,-r t " We

BLISS CO. v. UNITED STATES.
37.

Opinion of the Court.

may say that we concur With the lower courts and think
the patent is not so limited. The Bliss Company thought
well enough of it to buy its foreign rights.
. The several contentions of the company are but fragments of the broader one that there were in the world's
knowledge and available to the company practical devices
as well as principles of operation which precluded a
demand of secrecy by the Government and which left
the company free to use or exhibit or sell to anybody
torpedoes embodying them, the final and dominant contention being that the Government's reservation was
only of inventions- inventions, however, undisclosed,
patentable but not patented. Yet the word of the contract is "furnished," not invented, and the words are
of different significance. To invent means to create;
to furnish means to supply. And the difference was too
important, too pertinent to the purpose to have been
overlooked-indeed, must haveL been deliberately contemplated to achieve the object of the parties. The
Government in its situation, considering the use of torpedoes and the uncertainty against whom to be used,
would want to avail itself of the whole universe of things
then existing or that might be brought into existence,
in whatever way or combination it could. It is easy to
believe that an arrangement of old devices might have
value. And secrecy was an especial object, as far as it
could be maintained and for such length of time as it
could be maintained. The fact and the time might in
instances be critical and determinative of a decisive result.
The Government considered the provision important
to insert in the contract of 1905 and to repeat. in every
subsequent contract, to and including that of 1912, and
to disregard the plea of the company for some relaxation
of it to accommodate the company's interests. There
was some relaxation in 1912 and 1913, but the confidential
relation of the parties was emphasized as we have seen.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

This was the simple situation. It is free from tht tangle
and perplexities of the company's contentions. It gives
use to the restrictive clause, directness of right and
remedy, not dependent upon explorations into the prior
art or the delays and termination of law suits. These
observations apply to other parts of the torpedo as well
as to the balanced turbine. The remarks of the Circuit
Court Of Appeals are pertinent. The court said:
"Throughout the entire record, in the contracts,
correspondence and dealings of the parties, the iMportance of secrecy is everywhere manifest. The nature
of the services rendered was such that secrecy might
almost be implied. It is difficult to imagine a nation
giving to one of its citizens contracts to manufacture
implements, necessary to the national defense and permitting that citizen to disclose the construction of such
implement or sell it to another nation. The very nature
of the service makes the construction urged by the defendant untenable. We are of the opinion, therefore,
that the injunction should include all designs, drawings,
plans and specifications used by the defendant in making
the Bliss-Leavitt torpedo for the Government which
were approved by the Ordnance Bureau, notice of which
was given to the Bliss Company pursuant to the provisions of Clauses 19 and 20 of the contracts in question." The court hence directed the amendment of
the decree of the District Court, "adding such a provision."
A rehearing was asked of the case. It was denied as
to the balanced turbine and granted as to the other devices, that is, Double Regulation of Air, Ball Bearings
for Gyroscope, and Inside Superheater. To the inclusion of these in the decree it is objected, as to the Double
Regulation of Air, that written notice was not given
the company as required by the restrictive clause. The
assertion is that what was done by the Governmeiit was

BLISS CO. v. UNITED STATES.
37.

Opinion of the Court.

nothing but suggestions, first verbal, an.d then by letter,
but not accompanied by "blue pritits of design." 1 The
objection is based on the contention already referred
to that a device or design must be something concrete
or, it is now said, if not that, "it at least imports something as to dimensions, size, shape, weight, etc., from
which a device could be constructed." The objection
of Ordnance
Navy Department

1 Bureau

January 18, 1913.
25698/102-(G)-O.
Sirs: 1. The Bureau is pleased to note the decided improvement
shown in the dynamometer tests of the Mark VII torpedo by the use
of double regulating valves.
2. This plan or idea of double regulation was first submitted to
the Bureau by a letter from Lieut. E. Frederick, then Assistant Inspector of Ordnance at your works, dated March 9, 1911, which was
received and filed in this office on or about March 15, 1911, and the
value of the invention was successfully established by the actual tests
at the Naval Torpedo Station, Newport, R. I.
3. The Bliss Company had been furnished verbally with the idea
and the fact that its value had been established by actual trials. This
was also furnished the E. W. Bliss Company by the Bureau's letter
No. 25698192 (G) of January 4, 1913.
4. In view of the above the Bureau requests that you will note for,
record that the double regulating principle has been submitted by
the Bureau, and that this principle of any device embodying the
same falls under the provisions of Clause 20 of the contracts now
existing.
5. While the Bureau has no actual blue prints of design it has on
record cards and certain data obtained by experiments at the Torpedo
Station which the Bureau will be pleased to furnish the E. W. Bliss
Company for their information if they so desire and will request it.
6. The Bureau again desires to express its pleasure in noting the
improvement in the dynamometer tests due to Ohe double regulation
and the change in angle spray which was introduced at the suggestion
of the Bureau's inspectors at your works.
Respectfully,
N. C. TWINING,
Chief of Bureau.
E. W. Bliss Co., Brooklyn, N. Y.
(Through Inspector of Ordnance.)

OCTOBER TERM. 1918.
Dissent.

248 U. S.

is hypercritical and we are somewhat surprised at it.
There was no uncertainty in the Government's demand
and no misunderstanding of it. There were discussions
concerning the practical means of using it, and it was
testified that- "the sole question practically reducing
itself to whether or not they had sufficient space to apply
this design or principle."- And the design, was subsequently worked out-by the employees of the company.
The objection was rested on other grounds, and it was
rightfully- dealt with by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
- The same objection is notmade as to the Superheater
and the Ball Bearings. It is said of them that they are
not used in the existing type of torpedo. As this is conceded by the Government, and as we do not agree with
its assertion that the company "displays a--disposition
to violate its trust whenever it seems advantageous to
do so," we think the decree should not include the devices. In other words, it should be modified to exclude
them, without prejudice, however, to the Government's
right to obtain an injunction against their disclosure,
upon proper proof of an intention to use the devices, in
proceedings supplemental to this action or in an independent action. Hitchman 'Coal & Coke Co. v. Mitchell,
245 U. S. 229, 262.
The. decree is modified as stated, and, as modified,
affirmed.
Affirmed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE

dissents.

MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLD. took no part in the consideration or decision of-the case.

