OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Counsel for Parties.

248 U. S.

tion of either is patent and has been the subject of such
full discussion by this court that it should not now be
considered either doubtful or obscure. Baltimore & Potomac R. R. Co. v. Hopkins, 130 U. S. 210; 'Districtof Columbia v. Gannon, 130 U. S. 227; Louisville & Nashville
R. R. Co. v. Louisville, 166 U. S. 709, 715; United States
v. Lynch, 137 U. S. 280, 285; South Carolinav. Seymour,
153 U. S. 353, 358; United States ex rel. Taylor v. Taft,
203 U. S. 461, 464; Stadelman v. Miner, 246 U. S. 544.

For want of jurisdiction the writ of error is
Dismissed.

UNION DRY GOODS COMPANY v. GEORGIA PUBLIC SERVICE CORPORATION.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.
No. 87.

Argued Decomber 18, 1918.-Decided January 7, 1919.

A State fixed reasonable rates to be charged by a corporatiqn for supplying electricity to the inhabitants of a city, which superseded lower
rates agreed on in an existing time contract made previously between
the company and a consumer. Held, a legitimate effect of-a valid
exercise of the police power, not impairing the obligation of the contract or depriving the consumer of property without due process.
145 Georgia, 658, affirmed.

THE ease is stated in the opinion.
Mr. R. Douglas Feagin and Mr. Rudolph S. Wimberly,

for plaintiff in error, submitted. Mr Oliver C. Hancock
was also on the brief.
Mr. Roland Ellis, with whom Mr. C. A. Glawson and
Mr. Thomas W. Hardwick were on the brief, for defend-

ant in error.

UNION DRY GOODS CO. v. GEORGIA P. S. CORP. 373
372.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.

The Georgia, Public Service Corporation and The Union
Dry Goods Company, both corporations organized under
Georgia law and doing business in Macon, on July 18,
1912, contracted together in writing for the term of five
years, the former to supply electric light and power to the
latter, which agreed to pay stipulated rates for the service.
The contract was performed for almost two years until
in April, 1914, when the Dry Goods Company refused to
pay a bill for service rendered during March, in which a
rate higher than that of the contract was charged. The
Service Corporation claimed that this rate was authorized
and required by an ordur of the Railroad Commission of
Georgia, entered after investigation and hearing.
Soon thereafter the Dry Goods Company commenced
this suit to compel specific performance of its contract,
which had three years yet to run; to enjoin the Service
Corporation from charging the higher rate, and from executing a threat to cut it off from a supply of electricity,
because of failure to pay the increased rate.
The trial court and the Supreme Court of Georgia both
held against the claims of the Dry Goods Company and
the case is here for review on writ of error.
The order of the Railroad Commission of Georgia,
entered on February 24, 1914, reads:
"Ordered: That on and after March 1, 1914, and until
the further order of this Commission, the following schedules of rates shall be the maximum schedules of rates to
be charged by the Georgia Public Service Corporation."
Then follow the rates complained of.
No opinion was rendered in this case, but on the same
date, in prescribing the same rates in a proceeding instituted by the Macon Railway & Light Company, also
of Macon, the Commission said:

IOCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

"The rates prescribed herein-are in the opinion of the
Comnmission at this time justand reasonable. We have
no power to compel the company to accept less, except
as implied in the power to prevent unlawful discrimination." "All special rates, whether in the form of contracts for definite periods, or informal, in excess of these
prescribed rates are illegal."
Of the several claims pressed in argument, we need
notice only two: That the obligation of the contract of
July 18, 1912, was impaired, and that the plaintiff in
error was deprived of its property without due process of
law, by the decision of the Supreme Court of Georgia,
holding that the rates prescribed by the Railroad Commission were valid and superseded those of the contract
between the parties.
Long prior to the contract of 1912 the Railroad Commission was given jurisdiction over, and power to regulate,
the rates of electric light and power companies by statutes
in form not greatly different from those of many other
States, and, since no reason is assigned for assailing their
validity, other than the result in this case, they must be
accepted as valid laws.
As we have seen, the rates prescribed by the Commission were declared by it to be reasonable and the Service
Company was given authority to charge them. The plaintiff in error did not assert in its pleadings, or offer evidence tending to prove, that these Commission rates were
unreasonable, but complained only that they were higher
than the contract rates and, for this reason, it argued
that to give effect to the order, as the State Supreme
Court did, violated the provisions of the Constitution
referred to.
The presumption of law is in favor of the validity of the
order and the plaintiff in error did not deny, as it could
not successfully, that capital invested in an electric light
and power plant to supply electricity to the inhabitants

UNION DRY GOODS CO. 2,.GEORGIA P. S. CORP.
372.

375

Opinion of the Court.

of a city is devoted to a use in which the public has an
interest which justifies rate regulation by a State in the
exercise of its police power. Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S.
113; Budd v. New York, 143 U. S. 517; German Alliance
Insurance Co. v. Lewis, 233 U. S. 389, 407.
Thus it will be seen that the case of the plaintiff in
error is narrowed to the claim that reasonable rates, fixed
by a State in an appropriate exercise of its police power,
are invalid for the reason that if given effect they will
supersede the rates designated in the private contract
between the parties to the suit; entered into prior to the
making of the order by the Railroad Commission.
Except for the seriousness with which this claim has been
asserted and is now pursued into this court, the law with
respect to it would be regarded as so settled as not to
merit further discussion.
That private contract rights must yield to the public
welfare, where the latter is appropriately declared and
defined and the two conflict, has been often decided by
this court. Thus in Manigault v. Springs, 199 U. S. 473,
480, it was declared that:
"It is the settled law of this court that the interdiction
of statutes impairing the obligation of contracts does not
prevent the State from properly exercising such powers
as are vested in it for the promotion of the common weal,
or are necessary for the general good of the-public, though
contracts previously entered into between individuals
may thereby be affected."
This on authority of many cases which are cited.
In Hudson County Water Co. v. McCarter, 209 U. S.
349, 357, it is said that:
"One whose rights, such as they are, are subject to
state restriction, cannot remove them from the power
of the State by making a contract about them. The contract will carry with it the infirmity of the subject matter."

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.

Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

In Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Mottley, 219 U. S.
467, 482, this is quoted with approval from Knox v. Lee,
12 Wall. 457, 550, 551, viz:
"Contracts must be understood as made in reference
to the possible exercise of the rightful authority of the
Government, and no obligation of a contract can extend
to defeat the legitimate government authority."
In the same report, in Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R.
R. Co. v. McGuire, 219 U. S. 549, at p. 567, it is said:
"There is no absolute freedom to do as one wills or to
contract as one chooses. The guaranty of liberty does
not withdraw from legislative supervision that wide
department of activity which consists of the making of
contracts, or deny to government the power to provide
restrictive safeguards. Liberty implies the absence of
arbitrary restraint, not immunity from reasonable regulations and prohibitions imposed in the interests of the
community."
In Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v. Goldsboro, 232 U. S.
548, 558, the court said:
"It is settled that neither the 'contract' clause nor the
'due process' clause has the effect of overriding the power
of the State to establish all regulations that are reasonably
niecessary to secure the health, safety, good order, comfort, or general welfare of the community; that this power
can neither be abdicate- nor bargained away, and is inalienable even by express grant; and that all contract and
property rights are held subject to its fair exercise."
And in Rail & River Coal Co. v. Ohio Industrial Commission, 236 U. S. 338, 349, the state of the law upon the
subject is thus aptly described:
"This court has so often affirmed the right of the State
in the exercise of its police power to place reasonable restraints like that here involved, upon the freedom of contra(i that we need only refer to some of the cases in passin g."

ALLANWILDE CORP. v. VACUUM OIL CO.
372.

377

Syllabus.

These decisions, a few from many to li'.e effect, should
suffice to satisfy the most skeptical or belated investigator that the right of private contract must yield to the
exigencies of the public welfare when determined in an
appropriate manner by the authority of the State, and
the judgment of the Supreme Court of Georgia must be
Affirmed.

ALLANWILDE TRANSPORT CORPORATION v.
VACUUM OIL COMPANY.
SAME v. PIDWELL.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

Nos. 449, 450.

Argued December 12,- 1918.-Decided January 13, 1919.

A charter of a sailing vessel and the bill of lading provided "Freight
to be prepaid net on signing bills of lading," "Freight earned, retained and irrevocable, vessel lost or not lost." The vessel endeavored in good faith to make the voyage but was delayed by a
storm requiring her return for repairs, and then indefinitely by the
act of the Government in denying clearance to sailing vessels destined
for the war zone. ffeld, that the carrier was relieved of the obligation to carry and need not secure transportation by other means or
refund the prepaid freight. P. 385.
The bill of lading for other goods for the same voyage provided that
the full freight should be due and payable on receipt of goods by the
carrier, and that any payment in respect of them should be deemed
fully earned and due and payable to the carrier at any stage before
or after loading, without deduction, if unpaid, or refund in whole
or in part, if paid, "goods or vessel lost or not lost, or if the voyage
be broken up." It also exempted the carrier from liability "for any
loss, damage, delay or default, . . . by arrest or restraint of
governments, princes, rulers, or peoples." Held, ut supra. P. 386.

THE cases are stated in the opinion.

