OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

248 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. SPEARIN.
SPEARIN v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Nos. 44, 45.

Argued November 14, 15, 1918.-Decided December 9, 1918.

S agreed, for a lump sum, to build a dry-dock in a Navy Yard in accordance with plans and specifications prepared by the Government and
which provided, inter alia, for reconstructing a sewer which intersected the site, and prescribed the new location, dimensions, and
materials therefor. S rebuilt the sewer as so required, and it was
accepted by the Government, but owing to a dam, unknown to both
parties, existing in a connecting sewer, within the Yard but beyond
the limits of the operations, and to general conditions of drainage,
known to the Government but not to S, back waters burst the new
sewer, during heavy rain and high tide, and flooded the dry-dock
excavation,.causing damage and menacing the work. S, having
declined to proceed unless the Government paid or assumed the
damage and made safe the sewer system or assumed'responsibility
for future damage due to insufficient capacity, location and design,
the Government annulled the contract.
Ueld: (1) The provision for reconstructing the sewer was part of the
dry-dock contract and not collateral to it. P. 136.
(2) The articles prescribing the character, dimensions, and location
of the sewer imported a warranty that if so constructed the sewer
would prove adequate.. P. 137.
(3) Such warranty was not overcome by general clauses requiring the
contractor to examine the site, check up the plans, and assume responsibility for the work until completion and acceptance. Id.
(4) Neither Rev. Stats., ยง 3744, providing that contracts with the
Navy Department shall be reduced to writing, nor the parol evidence rule, precluded reliance on such warranty, implied by law. Id.
(5) The contractor, upon breach of the warranty, was not obliged to
reconstruct the sewer and proceed at his peril, but, upon the Government's repudiation of responsibility, was justified in refusing to
resume work on the dry-dock. P. 138.
(6) Having annulled the contract, the Government was liable for all
damages resulting from the breach, including the contractor's proper

UNITED STATES v. SPEARIN.
132.

Opinion of the Court.

expenditures on the work (less receipts from the Government) and
the profits he would have earned if allowed fully to perform. Id.
51 Ct. Clms. 155, affirmed.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Thompson for the

United States.
Mr. Charles E. Hughes, with whom Mr. Frank W.
Hackett and Mr. Alfred S. Brown were on the brief, for

Spearin.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

court.,
Spearin brought this suit in the Court of Claims, demanding a balance alleged to be due for work done under
a contract to construct a dry-dock and also damages for
its annulment. Judgment was entered for him in the sum
of $141,180.86; (51 Ct. Clms. 155) and both parties appealed to this court. The Government contends that
Spearin is entitled to recover only $7,907.98. Spearin
claims the additional sum of $63,658.70.
First. The decision to be made on the Government's
appeal depends upon whether or not it was entitled to
annul the contract. The facts essential to a determination of the question are these:
Spearin contracted to build for $757,800 a dry-dock at
the Brooklyn Navy Yard in accordance with plans and
specifications which had been prepared by the Government. The site selected by it was intersected by a 6-foot
brick sewer; and it was necessary to divert and relocate
a section thereQf before the work of constructing, the drydock could begin. The plans and specifications provided
that the contractor should do the work and prescribed the
dimensions, material, and location of the section to be

OCTOBER TEIRM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

substituted. All the prescribed requirements were fully
complied with by Spearin; and the substituted section
was accepted by the Government as satisfactory. It was
located about 37 to 50 feet from the proposed excavation
for the dry-dock; but a large part of the new section was
within the area set aside as space within which the contractor's operations were to be carried on. Both before
and after the diversion of the 6-foot sewer, it connected,
within the Navy Yard but outside the space reserved
for work on the dry-dock, with a 7-foot sewer which emp'tied into Wallabout Basin.
About a year after this relocation of the 6-foot sewer
there occurred a sudden and heavy downpour of rain
coincident with a high tide. This forced the water up the
sewer, for a considerable distance to a depth of 2 feet or
more. Internal pressure broke the 6-foot sewer as so
relocated, at several places; and the excavation of the
dry-dock was flooded. Upon investigation, it was discovered that there was a dam from 5 to 5Y2 feet high in
the 7-foot sewer;. and that dam, by diverting to the 6-foot
sewer the greater part of the water, had caused the internal
pressure which broke it. Both sewers were a part of the
city sewerage system; but the dam was not shown either
on the city's plan, nor on the Government's plans and
blue-prints, which were submitted to Spearin. On them
the 7-foot sewer appeared as unobstructed. The Government officials concerned with the letting of the contract
and construction of the dry-dock did not know of the
existence of the dam. The site selected for the dry-dock
was low ground; and during some years prior to making
the contract sued on, the sewers had, from time to time,
overflowed to the knowledge of these Government officials
and others. But the fact had not been communicated
to Spearin by anyone. He had, before entering into the
contract, made a superficial examination of the premises
and sought from the civil engineer's office at the Navy

UNITED STATES r. SPEARIN..
132.

Opinion of the Court.

Yard information concerning the conditions and probable
cost of the work; but he had made no special examination
of the sewers nor special enquiry into the possibility of the
work being flooded thereby; and had no information on
the subject.
Promptly after the breaking of the sewer Spearin
notified the Government that he. considered the sewers
under existing plans a menace to the Work and that he
would not resume operations unless, the Government
either made good or assumed responsibility for thedamage
that had already occurred and either made such changes
in the sewer system as would remove the danger or assumed responsibility for the damage which might thereafter be occasioned by the insufficient capacity and the
location and design of the existing sewers. The estimated
cost of restoring the sewer was $3,875. But it was unsafe
to both Spearin and the Government's property to proceed with the work with the 6-foot sewer in its then condition. The Government insisted that the responsibility
for remedying existing conditions rested with the contractor. After fifteen months spent in investigation and
fruitless correspondence, the Secretary of the Navy annulled the contract and took possession of the plant and
materials on the site. Later the dry-dock, under radically
changed and enlarged plans, was completed by other
contractors, the Government having first discontinued
the use of the 6-forot intersecting sewer and then reconstructed it by modifying size, shape and material so as to
remove all danger & its breaking from internal pressure.
Up to that time $210,939.18 had been expended by Spearin
on the work; and he had received from the Government
on account thereof $129,75ยง.32. The court found that
if he had been allowed to complete the contract he would
have earned a profit of $60,000, and its judgment included
that sum.
The general rules of law applicable to these facts are well

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

settled. Where one agrees to do, for a fixed sum, a thing
possible to be performed, he will not be excused or become
entitled to additional compensation, because unforeseen
difficulties are encountered. Day v. United States, 245
U. S. 159;' Phoenix Bridge Co. v. United States, 211 U. S.
188. Thus one who undertakes to erect a structure upon
a particular site, assumes ordinarily the risk of subsidence of the soil. Simpson v. United States, 172 U. S.
372; Dermott v. Jones, 2 Wall. 1. But if the contractor
is bound to build according to plans and specifications
prepared by the owner, the contractor will not be responsible for the consequences of defects in the plans and
specifications. MacKnight FlinticStone Co. v. The Mayor,
160 N. Y. 72; Filbert v. Philadelphia, 181 Pa. St. 530;
Bentley v. State, 73 Wisconsin, 416. See Sundstrom v.
New York, 213 N. Y. 68. This responsibility of the owner
is not overcome by the usual clauses requiring builders
to visit the isite, to check the plans, and to inform themselves of the requirements of the work, as is shown by
Christie v. United States, 237 U. S. 234; Hollerbach v.
United States, 233 U. S. 165, and United States v. Utah &c.
Stage Co., 199 U. S. 414, 424, where it was held that the
contractor should be relieved, if he was misled by erroneous
statements in the specifications.
In the case at bar, the sewer, as well as the other structures, was to be built in accordance with the plans and
specificatione, furnished by the Government. The construction of the sewer constituted as much an integral
part of the contract as did the construction of any part of
the dry-dock proper. It was as necessary as any other
work in the preparation for the foundation. It involved
no separate contract and no separate consideration. The
contention of the Government that the present case is to
be distinguished from the Bentley'Case, supra, and other
similar cases, on the ground that the contract with reference to the sewer is purely collateral, is clearly without

UNITED STATES v. SPEARIN.
132.

Opinion of the Court.

merit. The risk of the existing system proving adequate
might have rested upon Spearin, if the contract for the
dry-dock had not contained the provision for relocation
of the 6-foot sewer. But the insertion of the articles prescribing the character, dimensions and location of the
sewer imported awarranty that, if the specifications were
complied with, the sewer would be adequate. This implied warranty is not overcome by the general clauses
requiring the contractor, to examine the site,' to check up
the plans,2 and to assume respofisibility for the work until
completion and acceptance.' The obligation to examine
the site did not impose upon him the duty of making a
diligent enquiry into the history of the locality with a
view to determining, at his peril, whether the sewer specifically prescribed by the Government would prove adequate. The duty to check plans did not impose the obligation to pass upon their adequacy to accomplish the
purpose in view. And the provision concerning contractor's responsibility cannot be construed as abridging rights
arising under specific provisions of the contract.
Neither ยง 3744 of the Revised Statutes, which pro'"271. Examination of site.-Intending bidders are expected to
examine the site of the proposed dry-dock and inform themselves
thoroughly of the actual conditions and requirements before submitting
proposals."
2

"25. Checking plans and dimensions; lines and levels.-The con-

tractor shall check all plans furnished him immediately upon their
receipt and promptly notify the civil engineer in charge of any dis-.
crepancies discovered therein.

.

.

.

The contractor will be held

responsible for the lines and levels of his work, and he must combine
all materials properly, so that the'completed structure shall conform
to the true intent and meaning of the plans and specifications."
3"21. Contractor's responsibility.-The contractor shall be responsible for the entire work and every part thereof, until completion and
final acceptance by the Chief of Bureau of Yards and Docks, and for
all tools, appliances, and property of every description used in connection therewith..
."

.138

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S,

vides that contracts of the Navy Department shall be
reduced to writing, nor the parol evidence rule, precludes
reliance upon a warranty implied by law. See Kellogg
Bridge Co. v. Hamilton, 110 U. S. 108. The breach of
warranty, followed by the Government's repudiation of all
responsibility for the past and for making working conditions safe in the future, justified Spearin in refusing to
resume the work. He was not obliged to restore the sewer
and to proceed, at his petil, with the construction of the
dry-dock. When the Government refused to assume the
responsibility, he might have terminated the contract
himself, Anvil Mining Co. v. Humble, 153 U. S. 540, 551552; but he did not. When the Government annulled
the contract without justification, it became liable for all
damages resulting from its breach.
Second. Both the main and the cross-appeal raise
questions as to the amount recoverable.
The Government contends that Spearin should, as requested, have iepaired the sewer and proceeded with the
work; and that having declined to do so, he should be
denied all recovery except $7,907.98, which represents the
proceeds of that part of the plant which the Government
sold plus the value of that retained by it. But Spearin
was under no obligation to repair the sewer and proceed
with the work, while the G6vernment denied responsibility
for providing and refused to provide sewer conditions safe
for the work. When it wrongfully annulled the contract,
Spearin became entitled to compensation for all losses
resulting from its breach.
Spearin insists that he should be allowed the additional
sum of $63,658.70, because, as he alleges, the lower court
awarded him (in addition to $60,000 for profits) not the
difference between his proper expenditures and his receipts from the Government, but the difference between
.such receipts and the value of the work, materials, and
plant (as reported, by a naval board appointed -bythe de-

LUCKENBACH v. McCAHAN SUGAR CO.
132.

Syllabus.

fendant). Language in the findings of fact concerning
damages lends possibly some warrant for that contention;
but the discussion of the subject in the opinion makes it
clear that the rule enunciated in United States v. Behan,
110 U. S. 338, which claimant invokes, was adopted and
correctly applied by the court.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is, therefore,
Affirmed.
(MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the con-

sideration and decision of this case.)

LUCKENBACH ET AL. v. W. J. McCAHAN SUGAR
REFINING COMPANY AND THE INSULAR LINE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 51.

Argued November 18, 1918.-Decided December 9, 1918.

Where the bills of lading stipulated that the carrier should have the
benefit of any insurance that might be effected by the shipper, but
the shipper's policies provided that the insurers should not be liable
for merchandise shipped under bills containing such stipulations or
in the possession of any carrier who might be liable for its loss or
damage, held, that an arrangement between the insurers and the
shipper, whereby the former loaned to the latter the amount of a
loss caused by the carrier's negligence, to be repaid only in so far as
the shipper recovered from the carrier, otherwise to operate in effect
as absolute payment under the policies, and whereby, as security,
the shipper pledged such prospective recovery and the bills of lading
and agreed to prosecute suit against the carrier at the expense and
under the exclusive direction and control of the insurers,-was a lawful arrangement; that the loan was not a payment of the insurance
and the caricr was not entitled to the benefit of it; and that a libel

