OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

9,48 U. S.

the state constitution. A conveyance in aid of a public
purpose from which great benefits are expected is not
within the class of evils that the constitution intended to
prevent and in our opinion is not within the meaning of
the word as it naturally would be understood. We deem
further argument unnecessary to establish that the State
of Georgia made a grant which it cannot now revoke.
Bill dismissed.

DETROIT & ACKINAC RAILWAY COMPANY v.
FLET, JIER PAPER COMPANY.
SAME v. ISLAND MILL LUMBER COMPANY.
SAME v. CHURCHILL LUMBER COMPANY.
SAME v. RICHARDSON LUMBER COMPANY.
SAME v. MICHIGAN

VENEER

COMPANY.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
'Nos. 336-340. Motions to dismiss or affirm or place on the summary
docket submitted October 8i 1918.-Decided November 18, 1918

Various questions of law, involving the fixing of railroad rates on intrastate traffic and reparation to shippers, held local, and not reviewsble
in error to the state court.
Where the carrier has full opportunity to test whether rates are confiscatory in a suit against the rate-fixing commission, provision of
the state law making the judgment conclusive against the carrier
in subsequent actions for reparation, is consistent with the Fourteenth Amendment.
198 Michigan, 469, affirm~ed.
THE

cases are stated in the opinion.

DETROIT & MACKINAC RY. v. PAPER CO.

31

Opinion of the Court.

30.

Mr. Edward S. Clark and Mr. I. S. Canfield, for defendants in error, submitted the motions.
Mr. James McNamara 'and Mr. Fred A. Baker,for plaintiff in error, in opposition to the motions. Mr. C. R. Henry
was also on the briefs.
MR.

JUSTICE

HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

These five suits were actions of assumpsit brought to
recover the difference between the rates fixed by the
Michigan Railroad Commission on logs carried wholly
within the State, from points on the defendant's (the
plaintiff in error's) road to Alpena, and the higher rates
that the defendant actually charged. The plaintiffs
got judgments which were affirmed by the Supreme Court
of Michigan, (198 Michigan, 469), and the cases are
brought here upon lengthy assignments of error. The
plaintiff's now move to dismiss or affirm. We are of
opinion that the judgments should be affirmed.
Most of the assignments of error concern questions of
local law with which we cannot deal. Such are whcher
the orders of the Commission were in force pending an
injunction and before the defendant railroad had fixed
rates in pursuance of a mandate of the State 'Court;
whether the state laws permit an action to be maintained
without an order of reparation by the Commission; and
whether the statutes purport to make the order fixing the
rates conclusive in the present suits. These questions
depend upon the construction of the state laws, as to
which, upon writs of error to the State Court that Court
has the last word. Its power would not be diminished
if similar provisions in an act of Congress had been differently construed by this Court. The only question
properly before us is whether the statutes as construed
run aga nst the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States. It is argued that they do, if,

OCTOBER TEIM, 1918.
Syllabus.

248 U, S.

as was held, they preciade an inquiry in these procee'ings
into the confiscatory character of the rates irn present
circumstances. But the defendant had had its chance to
have the validity of the rates judicially determined in a
suit for that purpose and had used it. Detroit & Mackinac
Ry. Co. v. Michigan Railroad Commission, 235 T. S. 402.
There is nothing to hinder a State from providing that
after a judicial inquiry into the validity of such an order
it shall be binding upon the parties until changed. The
defendant was free to apply to the Commission.
A milling-in-transit rate allowing the defendant to add
fifty cents a thousand feet on lumber if, instead of being
carried on, after it was manufactured, on the through
rate, the product was not reshipped by the defendant's
line, was held to be permitted by the statute. It is said
that this would be contrary to the Interstate Commerce
Act if these cases involved interstate commerce, which
they do not. We see no question concerning it that requires to be dealt with here.
Judgments affirmed.

PALMER ET AL. v. STATE OF OHIO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 260.

Motion to affirm submitted October 28, 1918.-DeciduI NYvember 18, 1918.

The right of individuals to sue a State depends entirely on the consent
of that State.
Whether an amendment of the Ohio constitution (Art. I, ยง 16, as
amended 1912) gives such consent directly or requires legislation to
put it into effect, held a question of local law, in no sense involving
rights under the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
of individuals suing the State for damage to property.

