LA TOURETTE v. McMASTER,
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

LA TOURETTE v. McMASTER, INSURANCE COMMISSIONER OF THE STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH

CAROLINA.
No. 114. Submitted December 19, 1918.-Decided January 20, 1919.
The power of a State over the subject of insurance extends to the
regulation of those who may carry on the business as brokers representing both insurer and insured. P. 467.
A law of South Carolina provides that only such persons shall be
licensed to act as brokers to represent citizens for the placing of
insurance with insurers in that State or elsewhere as are residents of
the State and have been licensed insurance agents of the State for at
least two years. Construed as requiring local residence, as distinguished from citizenship, held, within the police power; and that it
does not deprive a citizen and resident of another State, desiring to
act as such broker in South Carolina, of liberty or property, in
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment, or discriminate against
him, in violation of § 2 of Article IV of the Constitution. Pp. 467-8.
-04 S. Car. 501, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. John L. McLaurin and Mr. Wendell P. Barker for
plaintiff in error. Mr. R. H. Welch was also on the brief.
They contended that under the provisions guaranteeing
the privileges and immunities of citizens, contained in § 2,
Art. IV, of the Constitution, the Fourteenth Amendment,
and § 5, Art. I, of the constitution of South Carolina,
the statute in question was void. The following authorities were cited. Commonwealth v. Milton, 51 Kentucky,
212, 219; Corfield v. Coryell, 4 Wash. C. C. 380; Slaugie,House Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 97; Butchers' Union Co.
Crescent City Co., 111 U. S. 746, 757; Ward v. Marylar

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.

Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

12 Wall. 418, 424, 425, 430, 432; In re Watson, 15 Fed.
Rep. 511, 512; Cole v. Cunningham, 133 U. S. 107, 114;
Blake v. McClung, 172 U. S. 239, 254, 256; Sayre Borough
v. Phillips, 148 Pa. St. 482, 488, 489; State v. Montgomery,
94 Maine, 192; Simrall & Co. v. Covington, 90 Kentucky,
444; Booth v. Lloyd, 33 Fed. Rep. 593; Robbins v. Shelby
County Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489; Laurens v. Anderson,
75 S. Car. 62; Hoadley v. Board of Insurance Commrs.,
37 Florida, 564; Cooley, Const. Lir., 7th ed., p. 567.
Mr. Thomas H. Peeples, Attorney General of the State
of South Carolina, Mr. C. N. Sapp, Assistant Attorney
General of the State of South Carolina, and Mr. Fred H.
Dominick for defendant in error.
MR. JUsTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the

court.
An act of South Carolina approved March 2, 1916,
entitled "An act to provide for the licensing of insurance
brokers," defines in its first section an insurance broker
"to be such person as shall be licensed by the Insurance
Commissioner to represent citizens" of the State "for
the placing of insurance in insurers" in the "State or in
any other State or country." And it is provided in § 2 of
the act, among other conditions, that only such persons
may be licensed as are residents of the State and have
been licensed insurance agents of the State for at least
two years.
La Tourette offered to comply with all of the provisions
of the act, but could not comply with the requirement
of § 2, he being, as he alleged, a resident and citizen of
New York; and he attacked the requirement by a petition
in the Supreme Court of the State by which he charged
it to be a violation of the constitution of the State and
of § 2 of Article IV and the Fourteenth Amendment of

LA TOURETTE v. McMASTER.
465.

Opinion of the Court.

the Constitution of the United States, in that he, a citizen
of New York, was denied the privileges and immunities
granted to citizens of the State of South Carolina and
deprived of liberty and property without due process of
law. He further alleged that the Commissioner had
refused to issue a license to him and prayed that he be
required to do so.
The Insurance Commissioner, by the Attorney General
of the State and other counsel, demurred to the petition,
asserting as the ground thereof that the requirement of
the act was a legal exercise of the police power of the
State and that La Tourette was not deprived of any
privilege or immunity secured to citizens of other States
by the Constitution of the United State.
The court
sustained the demurrer and dismissed the petition and
to that action this writ of error is directed.
The pleadings and the action of the court indicate the
question in the case and, it would seem, the elements of
it, but they are not clearly segregated in the argument
of counsel. They seem to be: (1) That La Tourette is
deprived of his liberty and a property right by the act
of the State in violation of the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment. (2) That the act discriminates
against citizens of other States in favor of citizens of the
State of South Carolina in violation of § 2, Article IV,
of the Constitution of the United States.
(1) This contention depends upon the character of the
business of insurance, and it was decided in German Alliance Insurance Co. v. Lewis, 233 U. S. 389, to be clothed
with a public interest and subject, therefore, to the regulating power of the State. And it necessarily follows
that, as insurance is affected with a public interest, those
engaged in it or who bring about its consummation are
affected with the same interest and subject to regulation
as it is. A broker is so engaged-is an instrument of such
consummation. The statute makes him the representa-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

tive of the insured. He is also the representative of the
insurer (Hooper v. California, 155 U. S. 648, 657), and his
fidelity to both may be the concern of the State to secure.
As said by the Supreme Court of the State: "It is important for the protection of the interests of the people
of the State that the business should be in the hands of
competent and trustworthy persons." And we may say
that this result can be more confidently and completely
secured through resident brokers, they being immediately
under the inspection of the Commissioner of Insurance.'
The motive of the statute, therefore, is benefit to insurer
and insured and the means it provides seem to be appropriate.
"But we need not cast about for reasons for the legislative judgment. We are not required to be sure of the
precise reasons for its exercise or be convinced of the
wisdom of its exercise." It is enough if the legislation
be passed in the exercise of a power of government and
has relation to that power. Rast v. Van Deman & Lewis
Co., 240 U. 5, 342, 365, 366, and cases cited; also Bunting
v. Oregon, 243 U. S. 426, 437.
(2) This contention, that is, that the act discriminates
against citizens of other States and thereby offends the
I Sec. 3. Such insurance broker shall exercise due care in the placing
of insurance and shall procure from the supervising official in the State
'or county in which the home office of the insurer is located a certificate
to the effect that the insurer is safe and solvent and is authorized to do
business. He shall furnish the insured a statement showing the financial condition of the insurer and such other information as the insured
may require. He shall report to the Insurance Commissioner in detail
the amount of insurance placed and the premiums paid therefor, and
shall pay to the Insurance Commissioner the additional license fee
herein provided. He shall submit to the Insurance Commissioner
within thirty days after December 31 of each year an annual report of
his transactions, and his books, papers and accounts shrll at all times be
open to the inspection of the Insurance Commissioner or a deputy appointed by him.

LA TOURETTE v. McMASTER.
465.

Opinion of the Court.

Constitution of the United States, is La Tourette's ultimate reliance, and to it his counsel devote their entire
argument. The State replies its power over insurance
and that the legislation it justifies extends to its agents
and is best executed when they are residents of the State.
This view we have sustained, and manifestly to declare
the legislation illegal is to put a restraint upon a power
that has practical justifications.
The illegality of the act is, however, earnestly urged
and that it is a "trade regulation" and recognizes "the
business, trade or occupation of an insurance broker as
proper and legitimate," and yet denies to La Tourette,
a citizen of New York, the right to engage in it and thereby
abridges the privileges and immunities that he has as a
citizen. The contention is expressed and illustrated in
a number of ways, and the privilege of a citizen is defined
to be "the right to pursue and obtain happiness and
safety" and "to pursue any lawful business or vocation,
in any manner not inconsistent with the equal rights of
others," and that whatever rights a State grants to its
own citizens are the measure within its jurisdiction of
the rights of the citizens of other States, and for these
propositions Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 36, and
Butchers' Union Co. v. Crescent City Co., 111 U. S. 746,
are cited. Other cases are also cited in illustration. We
do not dispute the propositions, and to see if they determine against the act under review we must turn to its
words, as did the Supreme Court of the State, whose
interpretation of them we must accept. It said, speaking
by Mr. Justice Hydrick: "A citizen of any State of the
Union who is a resident of this State and has been a licensed insurance agent of this State for at least two years
may obtain a broker's license; on the other hand, a citizen
of this State, who is not a resident of the State and has
nQt been a licensed insurance agent of this State for two
years, may not be licensed. No discrimination is made

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

on account of citizenship. It rests alone on residence in
the State and experience in the business." And the court
further said: "Citizenship and residence are not the same
thing, nor does one include the other. Cummings v.
Wingo, 31 S. C. 427, 435, 10 S. E. 107, and authorities
cited. But our conclusion is not rested upon the mere
use of the word 'residents'; for no doubt it might appear
from the purpose and scope of an act that 'residents'
was used in the sense of 'citizens.' If so, the Court would
so construe it; and in no event would the Court sanction
an evasion of the purpose and intent of this wise and
wholesome 'provision of the Constitution based on mere
verbiage. But there is nothing in the act to suggest any
such intention. On the contrary, the words 'residents'
and 'citizens' are both used, each apparently in its ordinary legal sense, which is well defined and understood,
making a distinction which is substantial in its purpose
and one that is sanctioned by the highest judicial authority."
The court thus distinguishes between citizens and
residents and decides that it is the purpose of-the statute
to do so and, by doing so, it avoids discrimination. In
other words, it is the effect of the statute that its requirement applies as well to citizens of the State of South
Carolina as to citizens of other States, residence and
citizenship being different things.
Judgment affirmed.

