OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U S.

STATE OF GEORGIA v. THE TRUSTEES OF THE
CINCINNATI SOUTHERN RAILWAY AND TIHE
CINCINNATI, NEW ORLEANS & TEXAS PACIFIC
RAILWAY COMPANY.
IN EQUITY.

No.21 Original. Argued November 7,1918.-Decided November 18, 1918.
In the absence of language suggesting a different intention, a grant of
the use of a railroad right of way must be taken as granting the right
of way itself. So held, where the purpose was to supply a roadbed
for a trunk line, necessitating expenditlre by the grantee. P. 28.
A'grant of a railroad right of way to a corporation, or to perpetual
trustees h6lding for corporate uses, does not need words of succession
tQ be-perpetual. Ib.
A grant of right of way for a railway from which great publie benefit i.
expected held not a gratuity within the provision of the Georgia constitution forbidding the general assembly to grantany donation or
gratuity in favor. of any person, corporation, or association. P. 29.
By, the Act of October 8, 1879, the .State of Georgia granted a perpetual right of way, for the Cincinnati Southern Railway, not a
revocable license.
Bill. dismissed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

M-r. William A. Wimbish for complainant.
Mr. Edward Colston, with whom Mr. Michael M. A lison, Mr. Washington T. Porter, Mr. John Weld Peci "nd

Mr. Henry T. Hunt were on the briefs, for defendants.
MR. JUsTIcE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit brought in this Court by the State of
Georgia to prevent the defendants from longer occupying
or using any portion of the right of way of the Western
and Atlantic Railroad, a railroad built and owned hy the

GEORGIA v*.CINCINNATI SO. RY.
26.

Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff State. The question, although argued at con-i
siderable length, is a very short one. On October 8, 1879,
the State passed an act sufficiently explained .by its tontents.' On August 21, 1916, reciting that the Cincinnati
' An Act granting right-of-way to the Cincinnati Southern Railway,
where its route adjoins that of the Western and Atlantic Railroad.
Section I. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Georgia,
That whereas the city of Cincinnati has nearly completed the Cincinnati
Southern Railway, a grand trunk line which will be of great, benefit to
the State of Georgia, forming a most important feeder and, practically,
an extension of the Western and Atlantic Railroad, which is the property of the State, and giving to our commerce the advantage of a
direct and admirable connection with the railway system of the North
and West;
And whereas, said railway reaches the Western and Atlantic Railroad
at Boyce's Station, and for the most of the distance to the termini of
the two railroads in Chattanooga, their routes run parallel to and adjoining each other, a distance of about five miles;
And whereas, it is to the advantage of both railroads to be able tp
locate their tracks and works close together, thus saving expense to
one in construction, and to both in maintaining the road-bed and
facilitating railroad operations; and giving to both railroads the advantage of a stronger and firmer road-bed through a route subject to
overflow by floods in the Tennessee river; there is hereby granted to
the Trustees of the Cincinnati Southern Railway, for the use of said
railway, the use of that portion of the right-of-way of the Western
and Atlantic Railroad between Boyce's Station, Tennessee, and the
Chattanooga, Tennessee, terminus that lies westerly of a line running
parallel with, and nine and a half feet westerly from the center of the
track of the Western and Atlantic Railroad, so as to admit of laying
track, if desired, near enough to the track of the Western and Atlantic
Railroad to leave the distance between the centers of tracks fourte6n
feet, and between the nearest rails of the two railroads nine feet;
Protidedalways, that this grant is subject to the consent and approval
-of the lessees of the Wester i and Atlantic Railroad as to the term-of
their lease; Provided furlher, that the grade adopted by the said Cincinnati Southern Railroad [sic] along and over the aforegranted rightof-way shall always be the same as that of Iie Western and Atlantic
Railroad.
•Sec. II. Be it further enacted, That all Acts and parts of Acts inconsistent With this Act are hereby repealed. [Laws 1879, No. 2341.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.
Southern Raiiwa

248

(. S.

now is conitroiied by a coinput.or of

the Western and Atlantic road and that the Western
and Atlantic needs the space, Georgia undertook to repeal
the former act and to treat it as giving a license oniy, that
the State was free to revoke. [Laws 1916, No. 539.] The
defendants say that the words "there is hereby granted to
the Trustees of the Cincinnati Southern Railway, for the
use of said railway the use of that portion of the right-ofway of the Western and Atlantic Railroad" &c. grant a
right of way in fee.
The Ohio statute under which the Cincinnati Southern
Railway was constructed by the City of Cincinnati provided for a board of trustees to be appointed and kept
filled by the Superior Court of the city, to have control
of the fund raised by the city, and to acquire and hold all
the necessary real and personal property and franchises
either in Ohio or in any other State into which the line
of railroad should extend. Therefore the grant to the
trustees was the proper form for a grant in effect to the
Railway, as it was styled in the title of the Georgia act,
or to the city if the city was in strictness the cestui que
trust. No other facts of much importance appear. Considerations are urged on behalf of Georgia to show fhat
the motives for a perpetual grant were weak, but nothing
that affects the construction of the words used or that
shows that they are not to be given their ordin-ry meaning,
indeed
ds the argument for the plaintiff agrees. But if that
be true, cadit quaestio. A grant of the use of a right of way
is the grant of a right of way in the ordinary meaning
of words, and a grant of a right of way to a corporation or
to perpetual trustees holding for the corporate uses does
not need words of succession to be perpetual., The words
"and its successors" or "in fee" would not eilarge the
content of a grant to a corporation. Owensboro v. Cu.nberland Telephone & Telegraph Co., 230 U. S. 58, 66. Iretfroit
v. Detroit Citizens' Street Ry. Co., 184 U. S. 368, 35.

GEORGIA v. CINCINNATI SO. RY.
26.

Opinion of the Court.

Great Northern Ry. Co. *v. Manchester, Sheffield, & Lincolnshire Ry. Co., 5 DeG. & Sm. 138, 146. If a grantor wishes
to limit the effect of words sufficient on their face to convey
a fee it should express the limitation in the instrument.
The purpose of the grant in this case, to supply a roadbed
for a trunk line, necessitating considerable expendituie
on the part of the grantee, confirms, if confirmation were
required, the legal effect of the words unexplained. Louisville v. Cumberland Telephone & Telegraph Co., 224 U. S.
649, 663. Llanelly Ry. & Dock Co. v. London & Northwestern Ry. Co., L. R., 8 Ch. 942, 950. Great Northern Ry.
Co. v. Manchester, Sheffield, & Lincolnshire Ry. Co., 5
DeG. & Sm. 138.
We think it unnecessary to refer to the language in
detail beyond saying that there is nothing in the statute
to suggest an intent to limit the scope of the grant and that
such expressions as " Provided further, that the grade
adopted by the said Cincinnati Southern Railroad along
and over the aforegranted right-of-way shall always- be
the same as that of the Western and Atlantic Railroad,"
further confirm our interpretation, as does also the requirement of the consent of the lessees "as to the term
of their lease," since those words imply that that grant
is of something more that does not require their assent.
Elaborate discussion of the circumstances seems' to us
superfluous. But it is necessary to mention the objection that by the constitution of Georgia the general
assembly was forbidden to" grant any donation or gratuity
in favor of any person, corporation, or association,"
and that there was no consideration for this grant. Even
if the contemplated and invited change of position on the
part of the Cincinnati Southern Railway and the benefit
to the State expressly contemplated as ensuing from it
were not the conventional inducement of the grant, and so,
were not technically a consideration, we are of the opinion
that the grant was not a gratuity within the meaning of

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

9,48 U. S.

the state constitution. A conveyance in aid of a public
purpose from which great benefits are expected is not
within the class of evils that the constitution intended to
prevent and in our opinion is not within the meaning of
the word as it naturally would be understood. We deem
further argument unnecessary to establish that the State
of Georgia made a grant which it cannot now revoke.
Bill dismissed.

DETROIT & ACKINAC RAILWAY COMPANY v.
FLET, JIER PAPER COMPANY.
SAME v. ISLAND MILL LUMBER COMPANY.
SAME v. CHURCHILL LUMBER COMPANY.
SAME v. RICHARDSON LUMBER COMPANY.
SAME v. MICHIGAN

VENEER

COMPANY.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
'Nos. 336-340. Motions to dismiss or affirm or place on the summary
docket submitted October 8i 1918.-Decided November 18, 1918

Various questions of law, involving the fixing of railroad rates on intrastate traffic and reparation to shippers, held local, and not reviewsble
in error to the state court.
Where the carrier has full opportunity to test whether rates are confiscatory in a suit against the rate-fixing commission, provision of
the state law making the judgment conclusive against the carrier
in subsequent actions for reparation, is consistent with the Fourteenth Amendment.
198 Michigan, 469, affirm~ed.
THE

cases are stated in the opinion.

