MERCHANTS EXCHANGE v. MISSOURI.
363.

Syllabus.

The federal question was not seasonably raised. Bonner
v. Gorman, 213 U. S. 86, 91; Louisville & Nashville R. R.
Co. v. Woodford, 234 U. S. 46, 51. But it is also unsubstantial. Prior to the Carmack Amendment (Act of
June 29, 1906, c. 3591, § 7, 34 Stat. 584, 595) the rights of
the parties were governed by state law, Boston & Maine
Railroad v. Hooker, 233 U. S. 97, 109-110; Pennsylvania
R. R. Co. v. Hughes, 191 U. S. 477; Chicago, Milwaukee &
St. PaulRy. Co. v. Solan, 169 U. S. 133; and the Carmack
Amendment does not apply, as the cause of action, if any,
arose six years before the passage of that act. The writ of
error is
Dismissed.

MERCHANTS EXCHANGE OF ST. LOUIS v. STATE
OF MISSOURI AT THE RELATION OF BARKER,
ATTORNEY GENERAL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.

No. 116. Argued December 19, 1918.-Decided January 7, 1919.
A state law forbade, under penalties, any person, corporation, or association, other than a duly authorized and bonded state weigher,
to issue any weight certificate for grain weighed at any warehouse
or elevator where state weighers were stationed, or to charge for
such weighing or certificates. Held: (1) consistent with the duc
process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment
as applied to a local corporation, having the usual powers of a board
of trade, which weighed grain and issued weight certificates, for a
charge, at the request of its members; (2) not a burden on interstate
commerce as applied to grain received from or shipped to points
without the State; (3) not superseded by or in conflict with the
Federal Grain Standards Act (August 11, 1916, c. 313, 39 Stat. 482,
Part B). Pp. 367-369.
269 Missouri, 346, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Percy Werner, with whom Mr. Everett W. PaUison
was on the briefs, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. John T. Gose, Assistant Attorney General of the
State of Missouri, with whom Mr. Frank W. McAllister,
Attorney General of the State of Missouri, was on the
brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICME BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

court.
A statute of Missouri relating to the inspection and
weighing of grain, approved March 20, 1913 (Laws, Missouri, 1913, pp. 354-373), and amended March 23, 1915
(Laws, Missouri, 1915, p. 302); declares that in cities of
more than 75,000 inhabitants all buildings used for the
storage or transferring of grain of different owners, for a
compensation, shall be deemed public warehouses; and,
by § 63 (p. 372) thereof, prohibits under severe penalties
"any person, corporation or association other than a duty
authorized and bonded state weigher to issue any weight
certificate . . . [for any] grain weighed at any warehouse or elevator in this state where duly appointed and
qualified state weighers are stationed . . . , or to
make- any charge for such weighing, . . . or weight
certificates
In June, 1915, an original proceeding in the nature of
quo warrantowas brought under this statute at the relation
of the Attorney General in the Supreme Court of the State
against the Merchants Exchange, a Missouri corporation
with the usual powers of a board of trade. See House v.
Mayes, 219 U. S. 270; Board of Trade v. Christie Grain &
Stock Co., 198 U. S. 236. The information stated that
St. Louis is a city of more than 75,000 inhabitants; that

MERCHANTS EXCHANGE v. MISSOURI.
365.

Opinion of the Court.

public weighers of grain are maintained there at all public
warehouses and elevators in' compliance 'with the act;
and that the respondent in violation thereof and in abuse
of its corporate franchise maintains a bureau for weighing
grain, grants weight certificates, and makes charges therefor. The prayer is that respondent be adjudged guilty
of these practices and that a fine be imposed. The return
admitted substantially the facts stated in the information
but alleged that the services were rendered only at the
request of members; that the weighing by its bureau in
addition to that of the public weighers added to the general
security, thus benefiting farmer, dealer, and consumer;
that similar weighing bureaus were maintained by the
boards of trade at competing grain markets; and that the
statute, in prohibiting the practice, deprived its members
of liberty and property and of equal protection of the laws
in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. The return
also set forth that the grain weighed by its bureau was in
large part shipped into or out of the State; that it is oommercially necessary as a part of interstate transit to pass
grain through an elevator where it is weighed, and the
issue of certificates of weight is essential; and that the
proyisions of the Missouri act therefore violated the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution. Upon a demurrer to the return, the full court found the respondent
guilty and ordered that it be ousted of the usurped power
of weighing grain received into or discharged from public
warehouses and elevators and of making charges therefor,
and of issuing weight certificates and making charges
therefor; and that the respondent pay costs. 269 Missouri,
346. The case comes here on writ of error.
First. Section 63 of the act does not violate the Fourteenth Amendment. As the state court has pointed out,
the statute does not prohibit owners of grain from weighing it before it is sent to a public warehouse or after it is
removed therefrom. 'But the issue of a private weigher's

-OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

certificate in addition to the certificate of the public
weigher might lead to embarrassment or confusion or
prove a means of deception. The regulation of weights
and measures with a view to preventing fraud and facilitating commercial transactions is an exercise of the police
power. To require that goods received in or discharged
from pullic warehouses shall be weighed by public weighers and that no one else shall issue certificates of or make
charges for weighing under those circumstances is not an
unreasonable or arbitrary exercise of the discretion vested
in the legislature. Compare House v. Mayes, supra;
Brodnax v. Missouri, 219 U. S. 285. Nor can we say that
to limit the application of the provision to grain and hay
is an arbitrary discrimination against dealers in those
articles. The fact that respondent is a corporation
does not lessen the scope of the State's police power.
We have no occasion to consider whether it is thereby
enlarged.
Second. Section 63 does not violate the commerce
clause of the Constitution. The contention that it does
was rested below solely on the ground that the prohibition,
as applied to grain received from or shipped to points
without the State burdens interstate commerce. It
clearly does not. Pittsburg& Southern Coal Co. v. L,,)uisiana, 156 U. S. 590; W. W. Cargi-. Co. v. Minnesota, 180
U. S. 452. But the additional contention is made here that
all state regulation'of the weighing of grain was superseded
by the United States Grain Standards Act, approved
August 11, 1916 (39 Stat. 482). That act (which is Part
B of chapter 313) relates exclusively to the establishment
by the Secretary of Agriculture of standards of quality
and condition. It does not in any way refer to the weighing of grain. And Part B of chapter 313, by § 7 (p. 484),
like Part C, the United States Warehouse Act (which
does contain some reference to weighing), by § 29 (p. 490),
makes manifest the purpose of Congress not to supersede

ERIE R. R. CO. v. HAMILTON.
365.

369

Opinion of the Court.

state laws for the inspection and weighing of grain, but to
co6perate with state officials charged with the enforcement
of such state laws. The Missouri act is not superseded
by or in conflict with the federal legislation.

The judgment of the Supreme Court of Missouri is
therefre
Affirmed.

ERIE RAILROAD COMPANY v. HAMILTON,
COUNTY TREASURER OF THE COUNTY OF
ROCKLAND, AS PUBLIC ADMINISTRATOR OF
MISTSCHOOK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 112.

Argued December 19, 1918.-Decided January 7, 1919.

Under § 237 of the Judicial Code, as amended September 6, 1916, .a
judgment of a state court based on a construction, but not denying
the validity, of a treaty, is not reviewable by writ of error from this
court.
Writ of error to review 169 App. Div. 936; 219 N. Y. 343, dismissed.

THE ease is stated in the opinion.
Mr. William C. Cannon, with whom Mr. Frederic B.
Jenninqgs and Mr. Harold W. Bissell were on the briefs,
for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Herbert C. Smyth, with whom Mr. Frederic C. Scofield, Mr. Charles Angulo and Mr. Charles C. Sanders

were on the briefs, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE

delivered the opinion of the court.

The Erie Railroad Company was sued in the State of
New York by the defendant in error to recover damages

