OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

248 U. S.

awarded the mandamus sought. In doing so, it not only
held" that the court house contract was valid and that the
agreement to levy the tax as therein stipulated was lawful, but, moreover, that the subsequent action of the board
of revenue in diverting the fund to the detriment of the
court house warrant holders was an impairment of the obligations of the contract and was void because of repugnancy to the constitution of the State and to the contract
clause of the Constitution of the United States.
. It is true, indeed, that in that case the court referred
to its ruling in this case with approval, but the relief
which was denied in the one and afforded in the other
leaves no support upon which to rest the contention that
contract rights secured by the Constitution were impaired
by the ruling which was made in this case.
As our conclusion is that the federal question relied upon
as the basis for the writ of error had no foundation, it
follows that our decree must be, and it is
Writ of error dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

ANDREWS, ADMINISTRATRIX OF ANDREWS, v.
VIRGINIAN RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE ROANOKE COUNTY CIRCUIT COURT, STATE OF
VIRGINIA.
No. 82.

Argued December 16, 17, 1918.-Decided January 7, 1919.

A judgment of the. Circuit Court of Virginia is not final for the purpose of review in this court while reviewable at discretion by the
Court of Appeals of the State.
Thereforp, a case by its nature reviewable here only by certiorari
under the Act of September 6, 1916, c. 448, 39 Stat. 726, in which
the Virginia CQgurt of Appeals did not finally deny a writ of error

ANDREWS v. VIRGINIAN RY. CO.
272.

Statement of the Case.

until November 13, 1916, cannot be brought here by writ of error,
although the judgment of the Circuit Court preceded the act and
the act excepts judgments rendered before it became operative,
i. e., 30 days from its date.
Writ of error dismissed.

To recover for the wrongful death of Andrews, a locomotive engineer in the employ of the defendant in error,
the plaintiff in error, the representative of his estate, commenced this suit in April, 1914. Both the Employers'
Liability Act and the act of Congress providing for the
inspection of boilers of locomotives were alleged. Act of
April 22, 1908, c. 149, 35 Stat. 65; Act of February 17,
1911, c. 103, 36 Stat. 913. On October 12, 1914, there was
a judgment on a verdict in favor of the plaintiff. A writ of
error having been allowed by the Court of Appeals of
Virginia, the judgment was, on January 13, 1916, reversed
and the case remanded for a new trial. Virginian Ry.
Co. v. Andrews' Admx., 118 Virginia, 482. The Circuit
Court of Montgomery County, in which the case was tried,
thereupon, by consent of the parties, transmitted it for
trial to the Circuit Court of Roanoke County, in which
court, on the 16th day of June, 1916, there was judgment
in favor of the defendant. Thereupon a petition for writ
of error to review this judgment was separately and out of
term presented to the judges of the Court of Appeals
and was denied, and on the opening of the term was, in
accordance with the Virginia law, presented to the court,
and was there finally denied on November 13, 1916. Then,
on the 27th of November, 1916, a petition was presented
to the presiding judge of the Circuit Court of Roanoke
County for the allowance of a writ of error from this court,
to review the judgment of that court of June 16, 1916,
which was allowed, resulting in the case which is before us.
Mr. A. P. Staples and Mr. A. B. Hunt for plaintiff in
error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

Mr. H. T. Hall and Mr. G. A. Wingfield, with whom
Mr. E. W. Knight and Mr. W. H. T. Loyall were on the
brief, for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement of the case, delivered the opinion of the
court.
At the thieshold, there arises a question of our juris'diction which we may not overlook and which we must
therefore decide. The question is, has this court power by
writ of error to review the judgment below; or, in other
words, is theauthority of the court to review that judgment confined by the Act of September 6, 1916, c. 448, 39
Stat. 726, to the right to do so by certiorari in the mode
and time provided by that act? Considering the subject
only from the character of the controversy, it is indisputable that the case comes within the generic class as to
which the power to review by writ of error was taken away
by the Act of 1916 and the authority to certiorari substituted. It results that, unless the judgment in question
comes under some limitation or exception provided by
the statute to the general rule which it establishes, we
have no jurisdiction.
There is no room for such exception unless it results from
the provision in the statute taking out of the reach of its
terms judgments rendered before it became operative.
The act was approved on September 6, 1916, and was
made operative thirty days thereafter. In form, the judgment to which the writ of error was addressed was rendered on June 16, 1916, before the operation of the statute,
and was therefore outside of its provisions. But the question remains, Was the judgment a final judgment at the
date named, or did it become so only by the exercise by
the Court of Appeals of its power as manifested by its
declining to take jurisdiction on November 13, 1916,

ANDREWS v. VIRGINIAN RY. CO.
272.

Opinion of the Court.

after the passage of the act. Undoubtedly, before the
action of the Court of Appeals, the judgment was not
final and was susceptible of being reviewed and reversed
by that court. Undoubtedly, also, until the Court of
Appeals acted, the trial court was not the court of last
resort of the State whose action could be here reviewed.
The contention, therefore, that the judgment of the trial
court was a final judgment susceptible of being here reviewed by writ of error must rest upon the impossible
assumption that the finality of that judgment existed before the happening of the cause by which alone finality
could be attributed to it.
.It is true that under the law of Virginia, in a case like this
the power of the Court of Appeals to review the judgment
of the trial court was gracious or discretionary, and not
imperative or obligatory; but the existence of the power,
and not the considerations moving to its exercise, is the
criterion by which to determine whether the judgment of
the trial court was final at the time of its apparent date,
or became so only from the date of the happening of the
condition-the action of the Court of Appeals--which
gave to that judgment its only possible character of finality
for the purpose of review in this court. Nor is the result
thus stated a technical one, since it rests upon the broadest
considerations inhering in the very nature of our constitutional system of government, and material, therefore,
to the exercise by this court of its rightful authority. That
this is true, would seem to be demonstrated by considering
that if it were not so a judgment of a state court susceptibleof being reviewed by this court would, notwithstanding that duty, be open at the same time to the power of a
state court to review and reverse, thus, in substance,
depriving each court of its power and begetting the possibility of conflict and confusion.
From this it follows that the judgment to which the
writ of error was addressed was in substance a judgment

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

248 U. S.

rendered after the going into effect of the Act of 1916, and
was only reviewable by certiorari, as provided in that
act. The writ of error, therefore, must be and it is
Dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

MIOSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v.
STATE OF KANSAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.

No. 14. Submitted November 13, 1918.-Decided January 7,1919.
The provision of the Constitution requiring a vote of two-thirds of

each house to pass a bill over a veto (Art. I, ยง 7, cl. 21.means twothirds of a quorum of each house (i. e., of a majority of its members,
Art. I, ยง 5), not two-thirds of all the members of the body. P. 280.
This conclusion results from the context, proceedings in the Convention, and the early and consistent practice of Congress, especially
under the similar provision made for submitting constitutional
amendments. It is further confirmed by the practice of the States
before and since the adoption of the Constitution. Id.
Webb-Kenyon Liquor Act sustained.
96 Kansas, 609, affirmed.

TpE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. W. P. Waggener and Mr. J. M. Challiss for plaintiff in error:
In view of the nature of the veto power and the extraqrdinary importance which must be attached to the
function of the President in exercising it, it may well be
assumed that the framers of the Constitution meaht that a
veto should challenge the attention of the members of the
Congress and bring about a full and careful reconsideration of the matter affected; and, on the face of it, it would.

