DANCIGER v. COOLEY.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

DANCIGER ET AL., DOING BUSINESS AS DANCIGER BROTHERS, v. COOLEY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.

No. 37. Submitted November 14, 1918.-Decided January 7,1919.
Section 239 of the Criminal Code made it an offense for "any railroad
company, express company, or other common carrier, or any other
person . . . in connection with the transportation" of intoxicating liquor, from one State into another, to collect the purchase
price, or any part thereof, before, on, or after delivery, from the
consignee, or from any other person, or in any manner to act as the
agent of the buyer or seller of any such liquor, for the purpose of
buying or selling or completing the sale thereof, save only in the
actual transportation and delivery.
Held: (1) In view of the conditions giving rise to the act and the report
of the Senate Committee, that the .practice of collecting the price at
destination, as a condition to delivery, was the evil aimed at. P. 327.
(2) That such collections when made by an agent of the seller cWnstituted the offense no less than when made by a common carrier or its
agent. Id.
The rule that where particular words of description are followed by
general terms the latter will be regarded *s applicable only to persons
or things of a like class is never applied when to do so will give to a
statute an operation different from that intended by the body enacting it. P. 326.
Transportation is not completed until the shipment arrives at destination and is there delivered. P. 327.
Whether in a state court a principal may recover from an agent
money collected by the latter in carrying out an arrangement between them which involved a violation of Criminal Code, § 239,
held a matt-r of local law not reexaminable by this court. P. 328.
98 Kansas, 38, 484, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Edwin A. Krauthoff for plaintiffs in error.

Mr.

Harry L. Jacobs, Mr. I. J. Ringolsky and Mr. M. L. Fried-

man were also on the brief:

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

248 U. S.

Shippers' order shipments are legal. Norfolk & Western
Ry. Co. v. Simms,, 191 U. S. 441, 447; American Express
Co. v. Iowa, 196 U. S. 133, 143.
Section 239 of the Criminal Code refers only to railroad carriers and their employees. The opinion of the
Supreme Court of Kansas, holding otherwise, is in conflict with the decisions of the federal courts. First National Bank v. United States, 206 Fed. Rep. 374, 378;
29 Ops. Atty. Gen. 58, 62; Danciger v. Stone, 188 Fed.
Rep. 510; U. S. Express Co. v. Friedman, 191 Fed. Rep.
673; United States v. 87 Barrels of Wine, 180 Fed. Rep. 215,
216.
The shipments were within the protection of the commerce clause and the Wilson Act, notwithstanding they
were consigned to the shipper's order instead of to the
purchaser directly. And § 4398, Kans. Gen. Stats., 1909,
forbidding a consignee to give an order on the carrier to
enable some other person to obtain the liquor was violative of the commerce clause as here applied. Rosenberger v. PacificExpress Co., 241 U. S.. 48; Western Union
Telegraph Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1, 27; Sioux Remedy
Co. v. Cope, 235 U. S. 197, 203; Southern Operating Co. v.
Hays, 236 U. S. 188; Norfolk & Western Ry. Co. v. S~mms,
191 U. S. 441, 447; Kirmeyer v. Kansas, 236 U. S. 568,
572; American Express Co. v. Iowa, 196 U. S. 144; Clark
Distilling Co. v. Western Maryland Ry. Co., 242 U. S.
311; Adams Express Co. v. Kentucky, 236 U. S. 129. Besides, by a later law, Congress had explicitly excepted
deliveries "upon the written order in each instance of the
bona fide consignee." Penal Code, § 238. The fact that
Congress deemed it essential to enact this provision shows
that the Wilson Law did not, or was not intended to,
have the effect of permitting state legislation on the subject. But even if the Wilson Law did grant the State
such right, this later enactment is exclusive. Palmer v.
Sbuthern Express Co., 129 Tennessee, 116; Blunk v.

DANCIGER v. COOLEY.
319.

Opinion of the Court.

Waugh, 32 Oklahoma, 625; McCord v. State, 2 Okla.
Crim. Rep. 214.
No brief filed for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the court.
Danciger Brothers, who conducted a mail-order liquor
business in Kansas City, Missouri, brought this suit in a
Kansas court to recover from Cooley certain moneys
collected by him, under an arrangement with them, as the
purchase price of intoxicating liquors sold by them in
interstate commerce, and also to enforce a similar claim
assigned to them by another liquor dealer. After issue
and trial Cooley prevailed and the judgment was affirmed;
the appellate court holding that the arrangement under
which the moneys were collected involved a violation of
§ 239 of the Criminal Codo of the United States, c. 321,
35 Stat. 1136, and that, applying the settled rule of the
Kansas courts, a principal who employs an agent to make
collections in violation of a criminal law cannot compel
the agent to account for what he collects. 98 Kansas, 38
and 484. The case is here on writ of error sued out prior
to the Act of September 6, 1916, c. 448, 39 Stat. 726.
These are the facts: Diring the year 1910 Danciger
Brothers received through the mails several orders for
whiskey from customers in Topeka, Kansas, and in each
instance shipped the liquor from Kansas City, Missouri,
to Topeka, as freight. Each package was consigned to
the shipper's order and was to be delivered by the carrier
qnly on the surrender of the bill of lading properly endorsed. A sight draft was drawn on the customer for the
purchase price and this with the bill of lading attached
was sent to Cooley under an arrangement whereby he
was to collect the draft, wa then to hand the bill of lad-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

ing suitably cndorsed to the customer to enable the latter
to get the package from the carrier, and ultimately was
to remit to Danciger Brothers the amount collected less
a commission for the service rendered. Before this arrangement was made the banks had refused to make such
collections.
The assigned claim need not be separately described,
for it was essentially like the other.
As the transactions occurred before the passage of the
Webb-Kenyon Act, c. 90, 37 Stat. 699, we axe not concerned with it, but only with the situation theretofore
existing.
Whether § 239 of the Criminal Code reaches and embraces acts done by an agent such as Cooley'was in this
instance, or is confined to acts of common carriers and
their agents, is a question about which there has been
some contrariety of opinion, and it is now before this court
for the first time. Of course, the chief factor in its solution must be the words of the statute. Omitting what is
irrelevant here, they are:
"Sec. 239. Any railroad company, express company,
or other common carrier, or any other person who, in
connection with the transportation of any . . . intoxicating liquor . . . from one State . . . into
any other State, . . . shall collect the purchase
price or any part thereof, before, on, or after delivery,
from the consignee, or from any other person, or shall
in any manner act as the agent of the buyer or- seller of
any -such liquor, for the purpose of buying or selling or
completing the sale thereof, saving only in the actual
transportation and delivery of the same, shall be fined,"
etc.
A reference to the conditions existing when the section
was enacted, in 1909, will, together with its words, conduce to a right understanding of the evil at which it is
aimed and the relief it is intended to afford. The condi-

DANCIGER v. COOLEY.
319.

Opinion of the Court.

tions were these: In some of the- States there were
state-wide laws prohibiting the manufacture and sale of
intoxicating liquor; in some there was a like prohibition
operative only in particular districts, and in other States
the business was lawful. But the prohibitory laws did not
reach sales or transportation in interstate commerce, for
under the Constitution of the United States that was a
matter which only Congress could regulate. True, there
was a regulation by Congress, known as the Wilson Act,
c. 728, 26 Stat. 313, which subjected liquor transported
into a State to the operation of the laws of the State
enacted in the exercise of its police power, but the time
when the liquor was thus to come within the operation
of those laws was after the shipment arrived at the point
of destination and was there delivered by the carrier.
Rhodes v. Iowa, 170 U. S. 412, 426. Thus a State, although able effectively to prohibit the manufacture and
sale of liquor within its own territory, was unable to prevent its introduction from other States through the channels of interstate commerce. Of course, the real purpose
of the prohibitory laws was to prevent the use of liquor
by cutting off the means of obtaining it. But with the
channels of interstate commerce open those laws were
failing in their purpose, for dealers in States where it was
lawful to sell were supplying the wants of intending users
in States where manufacture and sale were prohibited.
This interstate business generally was carried on by means
of orders transmitted through the mails and of shipments made according to some plan whereby ultimate
delivery was dependent on payment of the purchase
price. The plans varied in detail, but not in principle or
result. All included the collection of the purchase price
at the point of destination before or on delivery. One
made the carrier having the shipment the collecting
agent; another committed the collections to a separate
carrier, the liquor being forwarded as railroad freight

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

and the bill Gf lading being sent to an express company
with instructions to hand it to the buyer when the money
was paid; and still another made use of an agent, such as
Cooley was here, the bill of lading being sent to him with
a sight draft on the buyer for the purchase price. In
some instances the liquor was consigned to the buyer
and in others to the shipper's order, the bill of lading then
being suitably endorsed by the shipper.
Where the transactions were real and not merely colorable, the business so conducted was lawful interstate
commerce and entitled to protection as such until the
sale and transportation were consummated by the delivery
of the liquor to the vendee at the point of destination.
Such was the decision of this court in American Express
Co. v. Iowa, 196 U. S. 133, a case which arose out of the
transportation into the State of Iowa of a collect-ondelivery shipment of liquor ordered from a dealer in Illinois. The Supreme Court of Iowa had held that, as the
sale was to be completed in that State by payment and
delivery there, the laws of the State enacted to prevent
sales of liquor therein applied. This court reversed that
ruling and said in the opinion, pp. 143, 144:
"The right of the parties to make a contract in Illinois
for the sale and purchase of merchandise, and in doing
so to fix by agTeement the time when [and] the condition
on which the completed title should pass, is beyond question. The shipment from the State of Illinois into the
State of Iowa of the merchandise constituted interstate
commerce.
*

*

*

*

*

*

*

**

"When it is considered that the necessary result of the
ruling below was to hold that wherever merchandise
shipped from one State to another is not completely delivered to the buyer at the point of shipment so as to be
at his risk from that moment the movement of such merchandise is not interstate commerce, it becomes appar-

DANCIGER v. COOLEY.
319.

Opinion of the Court.

ent that the principle, if sustained, would operate materially to cripple if not destroy that freedom of commerce
between the States which it was the great purpose of the
Constitution to promote. If upheld, the doctrine would
deprive a citizen of one State of his right to order merchandise from another State at the risk of the seller as to
delivery. It would prevent the citizen of one State from
shipping into another unless he assumed the risk; it would
subject contracts made by common carriers and valid
by the laws of the State where made to the laws of another
State, and it would remove from the protection of the
interstate commerce clause all goods on consignment
upon any condition as to delivery, express or implied.
Besides, it would also render the commerce clause of the
Constitution inoperative as to all that vast body of transactions by which the products of the country move in
the channels of interstate commerce by means of bills of
lading to the shipper's order with drafts for the purchase
price attached, and many other transactions essential to
the freedom of commerce, by which the complete title
to merchandise is postponed to the delivery thereof."
After that decision the matter of further regulating
interstate commerce in liquor was much considered in
Congress, and as a result of extended hearings conducted
by the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate that committee, speaking through Senator Knox, proposed the
enactment of what afterwards became §§ 238-240 of the
Criminal Code. The report of the committee shows that
its attention was directed to the practice of shipping
liquor from one State into another, to be paid for as a condition to delivery, and that the committee regarded it as
an evil which should be met and corrected.
With the conditions just described in mind we come to
examine § 239. It consists of two parts, both relating
to liquor transported from one State into another. The
first deals with the collection of the purchase price, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

the second with acts done "for the purpose of buying
or selling or completing the sale" of "any such liquor."
If the meaning of the first is affected by the second it is
not in a restrictive way, but the reverse, so, if Cooley and
his acts are within the first, the second need not be noticed
further. The first, as before quoted, says:
"Any railroad company, express company, or other
common carrier, or any other person who, in connection
with the transportation of any . . . intoxicating
liquor . . . from one State . .
into any other
State, . . . shall collect the purchase price or any
part thereof, before, on, or after delivery, from the consignee, or from any other person, . . . shall be fined,"
etc.
The words "any railroad company, express company,
or other common carrier," comprehend all public carriers;
and the words "or any other person" are equally broad.
When combined they perfectly express a purpose to include all common carriers and all persons; and it does not
detract from this view that the inclusion of railroad companies and express companies is emphasized by specially
naming them. To hold that the words "or any other
person" have the same meaning as if they were "or any
agent of a common carrier" would be not merely to depart
from the primary rule that words are to be taken in their
ordinary sense, but to narrow the operation of the statute
to an extent that would seriously imperil the accomplishment of its purpose. The rule that where particular words
of description are followea by general terms the latter
will be regarded as applicable only to persons or things
of a like class is invoked in this connection, but it is far
from being of universal application, and never is applied
when to do so will give to a statute an operaticn different
from that intended by the body enacting it. Its proper
office is to give effect to the true intention of that body,
not to defeat it. United States v. MescaU, 215 U. S. 26.

DANCIGER v. COOLEY.
319.

Opinion of the Court.

Without question the practice of collecting the purchase
price at the point of destination as a condition to delivery
is the thing at which the statute is aimed. Through that
practice the sale of liquor in interstate commerce was
rapidly increasing. But, as before shown, such collections were not confined to carriers and their agents, but
often were made by others. In principle and result there
was no difference; the evil was the same in either event.
Besides, if the statute were made applicable only to carriers
and their agents, it could be evaded so readily by having
other collectors that it would accomplish nothing. The
volume of the business and the attending mischief would
be unaffected. Doubtless all this was in mind when
the statute was drafted and accounts for its comprehensive terms. That the words "or any other person" are
intended to include all persons committing the acts described is, as we think, quite plain.
To be within the statute it is essential that the act of
collecting the purchase price be done "in connection with
the transportation of" the liquor. The statute does not
say "in the transportation," but "in connection with"
it. Transportatiov, as this court often has said, is not
completed until the shipment arrives at the point of destination and is there delivered. Rhodes v. Iowa, 170 U. S.
412, 415, 420; Vance v. Vandercook Co., 170 U. S. 438,
451; Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Cook Brewing Co.,
223 U. S. 70, 82; Kirmeyer v. Kansas, 236 U. S. 568, 572;
Rosenberger v. PacificExpress Co., 241 U. S. 48, 50. What
Cooley did, while not part of the transportation, was
closely connected with it. He was at the point of destination and held the bill of lading, which carried with it control over the delivery. Conforming to his principal's
instructions he required that the purchase price be paid
before the bill of lading was passed to the vendee. The
money was paid under that requirement and he then
turned over the bill of lading. A delivery of the shipment

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

248 U. S.

followed and that completed the transportation. Had the
carrier done what he did all would agree that the requisite
connection was present. As the true test of its presence
is the relation of the collection, rather than the collector,
to the transportation, it would seem to be equally present
here.
We conclude that § 239 reaches and embraces acts done
by an agent such as Cooley was. The ruling on the right
of a principal to recover from an agent money received
by the latter in carrying out an arrangement between
them which involved the violation of a criminal statute
turned on a question of local law and cannot be reexamined here.
Judgment affirmed.

LEARY v. THE MAYOR AND ALDERMEN OF THE
CITY OF ,JERSEY CITY, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM ThE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 3.

Argued November 12, 13, 1918.-Decided January.7, 1919.

An instrument executed in the name and behalf of the State of New
Jersey by the State Riparian Commission, after reciting an application and agreement for a lease of certain submerged land, the fixing
of a specified rental and of a larger sum to be paid for a conveyance
free from rent, proceeded to "bargain, sell, lease, and convey" the
lands to the applicant corporation, its successors and assigns, and
"the right, liberty, privilege and franchise to exclude the tide water"
from such land "by filling in or otherwise improving the same and to
appropriate the land . . . to their exclusive private use;"
an habendum declared that the lands and all rights and privileges
exercisable within and over or with reference to the same should be
held by the company, its successors and assigns forever, subject to
the payment of- the specified rent in semi-annual instalments, and

