MT. ST. MARY'S CEMETERY
498.

?,.

MULLINS.

501

Syllabus-

sidered here. Reinman v. Little Rock, 237 U. S. 171. It is
enough to say that the allegations do not raise thequestion. The fact that the removal to the present situation
was made at the city's request does not import a contract
not to legislate if the public welfare should require it, and
such a contract if made would have no effect. Boston
Beer Co. v. Massachusetts, 97 U. S. 25; Texas & New Orleans R. R. Co. v. Miller, 221 U. S. 408, 414.
Decree affirmed.

MOUNT SAINT MARY'S CEMETERY ASSOCIATION v. MULLINS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.

No. 56.

Argued November 15, 18, 1918.-Decided January 27, 1919.

The land of a cemetery association was assessed as a whole, and subjected to a single lien, for a local improvement, although much of
it had been disposed of to lot holders for burial purposes. It appearing that the fee of the whole tract remained in the association,
held, that the latter was not deprived of property without due
process. P. 504.
Subject to the limitation that a local assessment must not be arbitrary
or unreasonable, the question whether it is justified by the benefit
conferred is to be determined by the local authorities, as is also
the question whether property should be made a separate improve.
ment district or included in a larger one. P. 505.
The fact that the land of a cemetery association is included for the
purposes of sewer improvement, and assessment, in a district with a
larger area of land devoted to other uses, while other cemeteries
have been districted separately for such purposes, does not establish
a denial of the equal protection of the laws, where similarity of
situation and conditions is not shown. Id.
Notice and opportunity to be heard before the creation of a special
improvement district are not essential to due process if a full hearing
be afforded in subsequent judicial proceedings to enforce the tax. Id.
268 Missouri, 691, affirmed.

502

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 b.. b.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. William Moore and Mr. Clarence S. Palmer, with
whom Mr. Francis C. Downey and Mr. Henry L. McCune
were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Matthew A. Fyke, with whom Mr. Jesse C. Petherbridge and Mr. Emmet L. Snider were on the brief, for
defendant in error.
MR. JusTIcE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was begun in the Circuit Court of Jackson
County, Missouri, to enforce the liens of tax bills upon
land of the Mount Saint Mary's Cemetery Association.
The tax bills were assessed in part payment of the cost
of two district sewers constructed in a sewer district in
Kansas City, Missouri. The Mount Saint Mary's Cemetery Association is a corporation organized under the
laws of the State of Missouri for the purpose of acquiring
and maintaining a cemetery, subdividing it into lots,
selling, disposing of, and managing the same. The net
proceeds after providing for expenses and a maintenance
fund are applied to the support of Catholic orphan
asylums.
The case has been three times in the Supreme Court of
Missouri. In 239 Missouri, 681, it was held that the
cemetery land was liable to assessment under the constitution and laws of Missouri and the charter of Kansas
City. In 259 Missouri, 142, the court held that the land
w as chargeable with its share of the cost of constructing
the sewer; that the holder of a lot in the cemetery had no
title or interest in the lot except a mere easement or burial
right subordinate to the ownership of the cemetery by the
corporation; that the special tax bills were properly issued
against the entire grounds of the cemetery; that fraud in

MT. ST. MARY'S CEMETERY v. MULLINS.
501.

503

Opinion of the Court.

laying out the sewer district, if such there were, was not a
defense to the action on the tax bills unless the alleged
fraud was known to the contractor who did the work. In
the third case, 268 Missouri, 691, the court affirmed a
judgment in favor of Mullins against the Cemetery
Association, holding that the presumption was in favor
of the reasonableness of an ordinance which included a
cemetery in the sewer district, and assessed its property
with the cost of lateral sewers laid in the alleys and streets
adjacent to the cemetery, and that such presumption must
be satisfactorily overcome by proof in order to be defeated; that when it was shown that the sewer for which
the tax bills were issued served to carry away the surface
water in the cemetery, and there was no evidence that the
sewers were not beneficial in the sanitation of the cemetery, it would be presumed that the city council was fully
informed upon the subject, and that its ordinance was
reasonable; 'that the tax, though large, must stand in the
absence of a showing that it was unreasonable; that it was
not reversible error to exclude evidence that the city in
two other cases had made cemetery associations separate
sewer districts in the absence of a showing that this was
done under a state of facts like those then presented; that
such assessments required no noice of the proceedings
unless required by some charter, ordinance, or statutory
provision; that the sewer tax bills could be issued against
the land in its entirety, such ownership being in the
Association.
So far as the judgment of the Supreme Court of Missouri
turns upon matters of state law it is conclusive. The final
judgment is here upon writ of error because of the contention that it violates the Fourteenth Amendment to
the Federal Constitution in that its effect is to deprive the
plaintiff in error of its property without due process of
law, and to deny to it the equal protection of the laws. In
passing upon the case the Supreme Court of Missouri,

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Couit.

248 U. S.

in the decision under review, found that the sewer district
contained about 407 acres; that the Cemetery Association
owned about 34 acres of land in said district which was
assessed for sewer purposes; that the effect of the sewers
was to drain the surface water from some of the land of
the association; that there were no openings in the sewerpipes for house connections, but the evidence showed that
such openings were often made by the plumbers when the
connections were made; that the grading contractor, in
grading a street on the west side of the cemetery, had
made a.. ten-foot fill near the northwest corner of the
cemetery, and placed a ten-inch pipe so as to lead the
water from the cemetery into the man-hole at that point,
thus preventing the formation of a pond; that there are
two waterclosets in the cemetery grounds not connecting
with these sewers; that the Association has an eight-inch
pipe about.400 feet long laid in the cemetery for the purpose of drawing the water to the west; that about onehalf of. the land in the cemetery had been disposed of in
lots for burial purposes. Others facts, not essential to be
considered in the disposition of the federal questions, were
found.
,The plaintiff in error contends that it was deprived of its
property without due process of law inasmuch as about
one-half of the tract of 34 acres belonging to the Cemetery
Association had before the assessment been conveyed for
burial lots; that the assessment against the entire tract
had the effect to impose a lien upon much of its property
arbitrarily as the burial lots had been conveyed to others.
But the Supreme Cqurt of Missouri held that the fee in
the title to the burial lots, which had been sold or leased,
was still in the Association, with an easement of the right
of burial in the lot purchasers. We see no deprivation of
due process of law in this holding, making the ownership
of the Association the subject of assessment. The right
of burial, which was all that the lot purchasers or lessees

MT. ST. MARY'S CEMETERY v. MULLINS.
501.

50$

Opinion of the Court.

acquired, for obvious reasons could not be put upon the
market and sold to pay assessments. The Association
had a title which the court held might be and was the
subject of assessment.
It is urged that the Cemetery -Association was not
benefited by the assessment. But the court found, with
evidence to support its conclusion, that the sewers served
to carry away surface water; and that there was no
evidence to show that the cemetery would not have been
benefited as to sanitation as a result of the construction
of the sewers. It is well settled that unless such assessment is arbitrary and unreasonable the extent of the
benefit, essential to justify the assessment, was a matter
within the control of the local authorities. Spencer v.
Merchant, 125 U. S. 345, 356; Wagner v. Baltimore, 239
U. S. 207.
This case is not within the principle of Myles Salt Co. v.
Iberia DrainageDistrict,239 U. S. 478, where it was sought
to embrace property in nowise benefited within the limits
of a drainage district.
It is contended that the Cemetery Association might
have been made a sewer district of itself and not have been
included in so large a district. Again, this was a matter
for the local authorities to decide, and, in the absence
of arbitrary action, their judgment is conclusive. Spencer
v. Merchant, supra; Wagner v. Baltimore, supra; Houck v.
Little River Drainage District, 239 U. S. 254.
The denial of equal protection of the laws is said'to
result from the fact that other cemetery grounds had been
placed in districts by themselves. But the record fails to
show similarity of situation and conditions. In the
absence of arbitrary action the making of this assessmentupon the district as constituted will be presumed to have
been warranted by the circumstances of the case.
It is insisted that no notice was given, or opportunity
to be heard, prior to the creation of the sewer district, and,

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

therefore, due process of law was denied. These tax bills
were levied upon districts the creation of which was authorized by legislative authority. The record discloses
that the owner has had full opportunity to be heard, in
judicial proceedings to enforce the tax, and its contentions
of arbitrary action and lack of benefits conferred have
been considered and decided. This is due process. Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97; Embree v. Kansas City
Road District, 240 U. S. 242, 251.
This court has more than once declared that it does not
interfere with the taxation and assessment laws of the
States as violative of the Fourteenth Amendment unless
the State's action has been palpably arbitrary or grossly
unequal in its application to the persons concerned. In
this case the assessment is a large one, but we are unable
to find that the judgment sustaining it has had the effect
to deprive the Cemetery Association of its property without due process of law, or has denied to it the equal protection of the laws.
Affirmed.

