OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

248 U. S.

Attorney General of the State of California, for defendant
in error.
Per Curiam: This case is controlled by the opinion
in Bank of Californiav. Richardson, ante, p. 476. Indeed,
it was submitted without briefs upon the briefs filed in that
ease. For the reasons stated*in the previous case, therefore, the judgment here must be reversed and the case
remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with
this opinion.
Reversed.

PIERCE OIL CORPORATION v. CITY OF HOPE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.
No. 137.

Submitted January 16, 1919.-Decided January 27, 1919.

A city ordinance forbidding the storage 'of petroleum and gasoline
within 300 feet of any dwelling, beyond certain small quantities, is
within the state police power.
So held, where storage of those substances in tankswas necessary to a
company's business of selling them, and the plant could not be moved
without expense and loss of profits.
The fact that th' tanks were moved to their present position at the
city's request did not import a coatact not to require further removal for the'public welfare; nor would such a contract be effective.
Where it 'cannot be aided by judicial notice, an averment that an
ordinance is unnecessary and unreasonable is too general and is not
admitted by a demurrer.
Allegations designed to show that petroleum and gasoline were so
stored as not to endanger any buildings and that explosion was
impossible, though conceding the possibility of some combustion,
held insufficient on demurrer to exclude the danger of explosion of
which the court might take judicial notice.
127 Arkansas, 38, affirmed,

THE case is stated in the opinion.

PIERCE OIL CORP.
498.

,.

CITY OF HOPE.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. W. E. Hemingway, Mr.,G. B. Rose, Mr. J. F. Loughborough and Mr. D. H. Cantrell for plaintiff in error.
No appearance for defendant in error.
MRI. JUSTICE HOpMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a complaint brought by the plaintiff in error to
enjoin the City of Hope from enforcing an ordinance that
forbids the storing of petroleum, gasoline, &c., within three
hundred feet of any dwelling, beyond certain small quantities specified. A demurrer to the complaint was sustained by the Supreme Court of the State. 127 Arkansas,
38. The plaintiff is engaged in the business of selling
petroleum. oil and gasoline and has tanks on the right 'of
way of a railroad in the city, which it moved to that place
at the city's request. The mode of construction is set
forth and it is alleged that an explosion is impossible and
that the presence of the tanks in no way endangers any
buildings. The tanks are necessary for the business; the
present position diminishes the cost of transferring oil
from cars and cannot be changed without considerable
expense and a reduction of the plaintiff's lawful profits.
The plaintiff adds that it knows of no available place in
the city where the tanks could be put and oil stored without violating the ordinance, that the ordinance is unnecessary and unreasonable, and that the enforcement of it
will deprive the plaintiff of its property without due process of law contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Constitution of the United States.
A long answer is not necessary. A State may prohibit
the sale of dangerous oils, even-when manufactured under
a patent from the United States. Pattersonv. Kentucky,
97 U. S.501. And it may make the place where they are
kept or sold a criminal nuisance, notwithstanding the
Fourteenth Amendment. Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

623. The power "is a continuing one, and a business
lawful today may in the future, because of the changed
situation, the growth of population or other causes, become a menace to the public health and welfare, and be
required to yield to the public good." Dobbins v. Los
Angeles, 195 U. S. 223, 238. The averment that the
ordinance is unnecessary and unreasonable, if it be regarded as a conclusion of law upon the point which this
Court must decide, is not admitted by the demurrer. If
it be taken to allege that facts exist that lead to that conclusion, it stands no better. For if there are material
facts of which the Court would not inform itself, as in
many cases it would, Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line Co.,
211 U. S. 210, 227, an averment in this general form is
not enough. Southern Ry. Co. v. King, 217 U. S. 524, 534,
535. Only facts well pleaded are confessed.
Then as to the allegation that plaintiff's plant is safe
and does not threaten the damages that led to the ordinance being passed, there are limits to the extent to
which such an allegation can be accepted, even on demurrer; as in the old case of a plea that the defendant
threw stones at the plaintiff molliter and that they fell
upon him molliter, ,"for the judges say that one cannot
throw stones molliter." 2 Rolle's Abr. 548, Trespas, (G)
8. As was well observed by the Court below "we may
take judicial notice that disastrous explosions have occurred for which no satisfactory ekplanations have ever
beenoffered. The unexpected happens." 127 Arkansas,
43. Indeed, the answer admits some possible combustion
but undertakes to limit its possible effects. If it were
true that the necessarily general form of the law embraced
some innoceikt objects,, that of itself would not be enough
to invalidate it or to remove such an object from its grasp.
Purity Extract Co. v. Lynch, 226 U. S. 192, 204; Hebe Co.
v. Shaw, ante, 297. Whether circumstances might
make an exception from this principle need not be con-

MT. ST. MARY'S CEMETERY
498.

?,.

MULLINS.

501

Syllabus-

sidered here. Reinman v. Little Rock, 237 U. S. 171. It is
enough to say that the allegations do not raise thequestion. The fact that the removal to the present situation
was made at the city's request does not import a contract
not to legislate if the public welfare should require it, and
such a contract if made would have no effect. Boston
Beer Co. v. Massachusetts, 97 U. S. 25; Texas & New Orleans R. R. Co. v. Miller, 221 U. S. 408, 414.
Decree affirmed.

MOUNT SAINT MARY'S CEMETERY ASSOCIATION v. MULLINS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.

No. 56.

Argued November 15, 18, 1918.-Decided January 27, 1919.

The land of a cemetery association was assessed as a whole, and subjected to a single lien, for a local improvement, although much of
it had been disposed of to lot holders for burial purposes. It appearing that the fee of the whole tract remained in the association,
held, that the latter was not deprived of property without due
process. P. 504.
Subject to the limitation that a local assessment must not be arbitrary
or unreasonable, the question whether it is justified by the benefit
conferred is to be determined by the local authorities, as is also
the question whether property should be made a separate improve.
ment district or included in a larger one. P. 505.
The fact that the land of a cemetery association is included for the
purposes of sewer improvement, and assessment, in a district with a
larger area of land devoted to other uses, while other cemeteries
have been districted separately for such purposes, does not establish
a denial of the equal protection of the laws, where similarity of
situation and conditions is not shown. Id.
Notice and opportunity to be heard before the creation of a special
improvement district are not essential to due process if a full hearing
be afforded in subsequent judicial proceedings to enforce the tax. Id.
268 Missouri, 691, affirmed.

