STERRETT v. SECOND NATIONAL BANK.
71.

Counsel for Petitioner.

possession of their property as in Southern Pacific Co. v.

Lowe, 247 U. S. 330, but the principle of that case must
be taken to cover this. By §II, G, (c), 38 Stat. 174, and
S, id. 202, the tax from January 1 to February 28, 1913,
is levied as a special excise tax, but in view of our decision
that the dividends here concerned were not income it is
unnecessary to discuss the further question that has
been raised under the latter clause as to the effect of the
fact that excise taxes upon the subsidiary corporations
htd been paid.
"Judgqment reversed.

STERRETT, AS RECEIVER OF THE ALABAMA
TRUST & SAVINGS COMPANY, v. SECOND NATIONAL BANK OF CINCINNATI, OHIO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 378.

Argued November 8, 1918.-Decided December 9, 1918.

A chancery receiver has no authority to sue in the courts of a foreign
jurisdiction to recover demands or property therein situated. Booth
v. Clark, 17 How. 322. P. 76.
Certain Alabama laws, relating to the administration of the assets
of insolvent banking and other corporations (Code, 1907, §§ 3509,
3511, 3512, 3560), held not to vest title in the receiver so as to enable
him to sue in the District Court in anothe- '-+ate without an ancillary appointment. P. 77.
246 Fed. Rep. 753, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Edmund H. Dryer, with whom Mr. Philip Roetringer and Mr. S. C. Roettinger were on the briefs, for
petitioner.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

Mr. Lawrence Maxwell, with whom Mr. Charles M.
Leslie was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff, as receiver of the Alabama Trust & Savings Company, a banking corporation organized under
the laws of the State of Alabama; filed his bill in the
United States District Court for the Southern District of
Ohio, against the Second National Bank of Cincinnati,
to recover sums of money for which he alleged the Second
National Bank was liable on account of certain transactions which had taken place between the National Bank
and the Saving" Company and its officers, the details of
which it is unnecessary to set forth. Upon final hearing
the District Court found the defendant liable for the
application of a balance of the Savings Company's deposit
in the National Bank, upon paper held by it on which
the Savings Company appeared as principal maker, but
which was found to have been given for the benefit of
certain of the Savings Company's officers. Plaintiff's
remaining claims were' rejected. Both parties appealed
to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit,
which reversed the decree of the District Court, upon the
ground that the Receiver had no authority to bring the
suit, (246 Fed. Rep. 753) and the case is here on writ of
certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals.'
In the lear 1911 certain creditors of the Savings Company, an Alabama corporation, filed a bill against i0 in a
chancery court of Alabama alleging its insolvency.
The chancery court on April 27, 1911, rendered a final
administration decree, wherein it found that the defendant Savings Company was insolvent; that its assets
constituted a trust fund for the payment of its creditors,
and the same should be marshalled and administered in
that court; that the defendant was a corporation organized
under the General Laws of Alabama; that upon final

STERRETT v. SECOND NATIONAL BANK.
73.

Opinion of the Court.

settlement it should be dissolved; that it had suspended
business and was not about to resume the same, and could
not do so with safety to the public; that, therefore, W. C.
Sterrett be appointed receiver of defendant, and empowered and directed to demand and take into his possession all of the defendant's assets and property to which
it was entitled and to recover the same and reduce it to
money, and administer the same under the further order
of the court. And the court further authorized the
Receiver to employ counsel and to bring such actions at
law or in equity as he might be advised and to incur such
expenses as might be necessary. Later, on March 8th,
1912, the Alabama chancery court specifically directed
the Receiver, plaintiff herein, to bring this suit in the
District Court of the United States for the Southern
District of Ohio, Western Division.
The material parts of the sections of the Code of
Alabama, (1907, vol. II, pp. 430, 433) pertinent to this
case, provide as follows:
"3509. . . . The assets of insolvent corporations
constitute a trust fund for the payment of the creditors
of such corporations, which may be marshalled and administered in courts of equity in this state."
Section 3511 provides for the dissolution of corporations
by action of the stockholders, and enacts that the court
" .
Shall appoint a receiver of all the books,
.
[who]
property, and assets of the corporation .
shall, under the direction of the court, collect all debts
due the corporation, and sell all the property, real and
personal, of the corporation, pay the debts thereof ratably
or in full as the funds realized may admit, and divide the
residue after the debts and costs are paid, among the
several classes of stockholders, according to the amount
owned by each, and according to the preferences, if any,
of the several classes as provided in the certificates of
incorporation."

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

Section 3512 covers the application for receivership
and dissolution of insolvent corporations upon bill of
creditors or stockholders in the chancery court, and
provides:
may appoint a receiver
.
"
The court .
of all the property and assets of the corporation, .
[who] under the direction of the court, must exercise the
same powers and perform the same duties a' are required
of receivers in the next preceding section, and otherwise
manage the affairs of the cotporation pending final settlement thereof as the court shall direct. .
There is also a provision for proceedings by the attorney
general (p. 444):
"3560. Proceedings when bank found not solvent.Whenever the treasurer finds that a bank or corporation
chartered by the laws of this state and doing a baniking
business, is not in a solvent condition, he shall immediately
report the condition of the bank to the governor, and the
governor shall direct the attorney-general to institute
proceedings in a court having jurisdiction in the county
where the bank or parent bank is located, to put the bank
in the hands of some competent person, who shall give
bond in an amount to be fixed by the judge for the faithful discharge of his duties, and said person so appointed
shall immediately take charge of the business of said
bank, collecting its assets and paying off its liabilities
under the law and rules of such court."
The question presented for our consideration is whether
the receiver appointed in the chancery court is authorized
to sue in the federal court for the recovery of such property.
Since the decision of this court in Booth v. Clark, 17
How. 322, it is the settled doctrine in federal jurisprudence
that a chancery receiver has no authority to sue in the
courts of a foreign jurisdiction to recover demands or
property therein situated. The functions and authority
of such receiver are confined to the jurisdiction in which

STERRETT v. SECOND NATIONAL BANK.

73.

Opinion of the Court.

he was appointed. The reasons for this rule were fully
discussed in Booth v. Clark, and have been reiterated in
later decisions of this court. Hale v. Allinson, 188 U. S.
56; Great Western Mining Co. v. Harris,198 U. S. 561, 575,
577; Keatley v. Furey, 226 U. S. 399, 403. This practice
has become general in the courts of the United States, and
is a system well understood and followed. It permits an
application for an ancillary receivership in a foreign jurisdiction where the local assets- may be recovered and, if
necessary, administered. The system established in Booth
v. Clark has become the settled law of the federal
courts, and if the powers of chancery receivers are to be
enlarged in such wise as to give them authority to sue
beyond the jurisdiction of the appointing court, such extension of authority must come from legislation and not
from judicial action. Great Western Mining Co. v. Harris,
supra, p. 577.
Counsel for petitioner insists that the case is not ruled
by the doctrine of Booth v. Clark, and that under the
Alabama statutes and the decisions of the Supreme Court
of that State the title to the property of the Trust Company is vested in the Receiver in such wise that he is authorized to sue for its recovery in the courts of a foreign
jurisdiction. If this contention is well founded there is no
question of the authority of the Receiver to prosecute the
action. Relfe v. Rundle, 103 U. S. 222; Hawkins v. Glenn,
131 U. S. 319; Bernheimer v. Converse, 206 U. S. 516, 534;
Converse v. Hamilton, 224 U. S. 243, 257; Keatley v. Furey,
226 U. S. 399, 403.
The Alabama cases, Oates v . Smith, 176 Alabama, 39;
Montgomery Bank & Trust Co. v. Walker, 181 Alabama,
368; Cobbs v. Vizard Investment Co., 182 Alabama, 372;
Coffey V. Gay, 191 Alabama, 137; Hundley v. Hewitt, 195
Alabama, 647, are fully reviewed in the opinion of the
Circuit Court of Appeals. To rehearse them now would
be but a repetition of what is said in that opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.

78

Syllabus.

2484U. S.

An examination of the sections of the statutes, here in-.
volved, in the light of the decisions of the Supreme Court
of Alabama, does not in our opinion warrant the conclusion that title is vested in the Receiver as assignee or as
statutory successor of the insolvent corporation in such
wise as to authorize the action to recover in a foreign jurisdiction. Collectively, these sections provide for a receivership to administer the property and assets of the
insolvent corporation under the authority and direction
of the appointing court. The statutes do not undertake
to vest in the receiver an estate in the property to be administered for the benefit of creditors, as was the case in
Bernheimer v. Converse, 206 U. S. 516; Converse v. Hamilton, 224 U. S. 243, in which the right to sue in the courts
of a foreign jurisdiction was sustained.
The Circuit Court of Appeals left open the question ot
the right to apply for an ancillary receivership in the District Court, and the effect of such appointment, if made,
upon the pending suit. We pursue the like course, arid as
such an application could only originate in the District
Court we express no opinion concerning it. The decree
of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

ALASKA PACIFIC FISHERIES v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 212.

Argued November 4, 1918.-Decided December 9, 1918.

For safeguarding and advancing a dependent Indian people, resident
on islands belonging to the United States in the Territory of Alaska,
Congress has power to reserve for their use, until otherwise provided by law, not only the upland of the islands but also the ad-

