OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

TURNER v. UNITED STATES AND CREEK NATION OF INDIANS.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 33.

Argued November 13, 14, 1918.-Decided January 7, 1919.

While recognized by the United States as a distinct political community,
the Creek Nation leased a pasture, the lessees undertaking to
fence and pay rent. When nearly completed, the fence was destroyed by the action of a Creek mob, participated in by the Creek
Treasurer; and thereafter one of the lessees, assignee of the rest,
sued the Creek Nation for the cost of the fence and of the assignments and for the loss of the benefits of the lease. Held, that there
was no cause of action; for a sovereignty, on general principles,
is not liable for injuries resulting from mob violence or failure to
keep the peace; and neither the wrong of the Treasurer nor any duty
under the lease created such liability here. P. 357.
The special Act of May 29, 1908, c. 216, 35 Stat. 444, 457, authorized
suit in the Court of Claims against the Creek Nation for the adjudication of this claim, but it did not validate the claim itself or permit
that the United States be joined as a defendant. P. 358.
51 Ct. Clms. 125, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Chas. H. Merillat, with whom Mr. Chas. J. Kappler
was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Thompson and Mr.
George M. Anderson, for the United States, submitted.
Mr. James C. Davis, for the Creek Nation of Indians,

submitted.
MR. JusTcIC BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the court.

The Creek or Muskogee Nation or Tribe of Indians had,

in 1890, a population of 15,000. Subject to the control of

TURNER v. UNITED STATES.
354.

Opinion of tile Court.

Congress, they then exercised within a defined territory
the powers of a sovereign people; having a tribal organization, their own system of laws, and a government with
the usual branches, executive, legislative, and judicial.
The territory was divided into six districts; and each district was provided with a judge.'
In 1889 the Creek Nation enacted a statute which conferred upon each citizen of the Nation, head of a family
engaged in grazing livestock, the right to enclose for that
purpose one square mile of the public domain without paying compensation. Enclosure of a greater area was prohibited; but provision was made for establishing, under
certain conditions, more extensive pastures near the frontiers to protect against influx of stock from adjoining
nations. The conditions prescribed were these: If the
district judge should receive notice from citizens of a desire to establish such a pasture, he was required to call a
meeting of citizens to consider and act upon the -subject;
and if it appeared that a majority of the persons of voting
age in the neighborhood thus to be protected favored its
establishment, the district judge was directed to let such
pasture for three years (subject to renewal) to citizens
who would by contract bind themselves to build a substantial fence around the pasture, and to pay at least five
cents per acre per annum for the grazing privilege.
In 1890 Turner and a partner formed, under the name of
Pussy, Tiger & Co., an organization consisting of themselves and one hundred Creeks, with a view, to securing
such a pasture in the Deep Fork district. They caused an
election to be held and a contract to be entered into by the
district judge with Pussy, Tiger & Co., which covered
about 256,000 acres. The fence required to enclose it was
'Treaty of June '14, 1866, Art. X, 14 Stat. 785, 788; Report of the
Commissioner of Indian Affairs for 1888, p. 113; for 1889, p. 202; for
1890, pp. 89, 90; for 1891, vol. I, pp. 240-241.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.

Oinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

about 80 miles in length. Before its construction was
begun, dissatisfaction had already developed in the neighborhood; and from the time the fence was commenced,
there were rumors of threats by Indians to destroy it if
built. The work was, however, undetaken; the threats
continued; and Turner and one of his assignees secured
from the United States Court in the Indian Territory,
First Judicial Division, an injunction restraining the Creek
district judge for the Deep Fork district and L. C. Perryman, the Principal Chief of the Nation, from interfering
with or damaging the fence. After it had been nearly
completed, three bands of Creek Indians destroyed the
fence, cutting the wire and posts and scattering the staples.
It does not appear that either the Creek judge or the Chief
or any other official of the Creek Government had any
part in the destruction of the fence, except one Moore,
the Treasurer, whose only official duties seem to have been
"to receive and receipt for all national funds and to disburse the same, as should be provided for by law."
More than $10,000 net expended in constructing the
fence, and $2500 paid by Turner to the 100 Creek Indians
associated with him for the release of their grazing rights
were lost; and large profits which it was expected would
be made through assignment of pasturage rights to cattle
raisers were prevented. Claims for compensation were
repeatedly presented by Turner to the Creek Nation.
Once its National Council voted to make compensation;
but Chief Perryman vetoed the action and his veto was
sustained. Later the Creek supreme court declared the
fence a legal structure; but still the Nation failed to make
any compensation. On March 4, 1906, the tribal organization was dissolved pursuant to Act of March 1, 1901,
c. 676, ยง 46,31 Stat. 861, 872. In 1908 Congress provided,
by ยง 26 of the Act of May 29, 1908, c. 216, 35 Stat. 444,
457, as follows:
"That the Court of Claims is hereby authorized to

TURNER v. UNITED STATES.
354.

Opinion of the Court.

consider and adjudicate a:td render judgment as law and
equity may require in the matter of the claim of Clarence
W. Turner, of Muskogee, Oklahoma, against the Creek
Nation, for the destruction of personal property and the
value of the loss of the pasture of the said Turner, or his
assigns, by the action of any of the responsible Creek authorities, or with their cognizance and acquiescencei either
party to said cause in the Court of Claims to have the
right of appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States."
In August, 1908, Turner, having acquired all the rights
of his associates, filed a petition in the Court of Claims
against the Creek Nation and the United States as trustee
of Creek funds,' to recover the amount lost, which he
alleged to be the sum of $105,698.03. The Court of Claims
dismissed the petition (51 Ct. Clms. 125), and the case
comes here by appeal.
The claimant contends that, by the general law, the
Creek Nation is liable in damages for the action of the
mob which resulted in the destruction of his property and
prevented him from securing the benefits of the contract
entered into between him as grantee and the Creek Nation;
and that if the substantive right did not already exist, it
was created by the act which conferred jurisdiction upon
the Court of Claims to hear and adjudicate the controversy.
First. No such liability existed by the general law.
The Creek Nation was recognized by the United States
as a distinct political community, with which it made
treaties and which within its own territory administered
its internal affairs. Like other governments, municipal
as well as state, the Creek Nation was free from liability
1 On November 18, 1915, the sum of $1,325,167.16 was held by the

United States in trust for the Creek Nation of Indians. In addition
thereto approximately $1,110,000.00 of the tribal funds of the Nation
were on deposit in the Oklahoma state and national banks, on April 10,
1916, under the provisions of the Act of March 3, 1911, c. 210, ยง 17,
36 Stat. 1058, 1070.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

for injuries to persons or property due to mob violence or
failure to keep the peace. Compare Louisiana v. Mayor
of New Orleans, 109 U. S. 285, 287, 291; South v. Maryland, 18 How. 396; Murdock Grate Co. v. Commonwealth,
152 Massachusetts, 28, 31. Such liability is frequently
imposed by statute upon cities and counties (see City of
Chicago v. Pennsylvania Co., 119 Fed. Rep. 497); but
neither Congress nor the Creek Nation had dealt with the
subject by any legislation prior to 1908. The fundamental
obstacle to recovery is not the immunity of a sovereign
to suit, but the lack of a substantive right to recover the
damages resulting from failure of a government or its
officers to keep the peace. And the participation in the
injuries of an officer acting, not colore officii, but in open
and known violation of the law, cannot alter the case.
The claimant's contention that the defendant owed to the
claimant, as its own grantee, a greater duty than it owed
to other persons in the territory, to protect him against
mob violence, finds no support in reason or authority.
Second. The special Act of May 29, 1908, did not impose any liability upon the Creek Nation. The tribal
government had been dissolved. Without authorization
from Congress, the Nation could not then have been
sued in any court; at least without its consent. The Court
of Claims is "authorized to consider and adjudicate and
render judgment as law and equity may require." The
words of the act which follow merely identify the claims
which the court is authorized to consider. Authority
to sue the Creek Nation is implied; but there is nothing
in the act which even tends to indicate a purpose to create
a new substantive right. Compare United States v. Mille
Lac Chippewas, 229 U. S. 498, 500; Green v. Menominee
Tribe, 233 U. S. 558, 568; Thompson v. United States, 246
U. S. 547. The act simply provides a forum for the adjudication of such rights as Turner may have against the Creek
Nation.

CHICAGO, R. I. & PAC. RY. v. MAUCHER.
354.

359

Syllabus.

Third. The United States objected also to the jurisdiction of the court over it. Neither the special act nor
any general statute authorized suit against the United
States. As it cannot be sued without its consent, the
United States was improperly joined as a party defendant, although in the capacity of trustee for the Creek Nation. Compare Green v. Menominee Tribe, supra.
It is not necessary to consider the many other objections
urged against the petition. The Court of Claims properly
dismissed it; and the judgment is
Affirmed.

CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY v. MAUCHER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.

No. 85. Argued December 17, 18, 1918.-Decided January 7, 1919.
The freedom of the States to establish and apply their own laws and
policies touching the validity of contracts exempting carriers from
liability to passengers for injuries due to negligence, was not affected
by the Carmack Amendment, which deals only with shipments of
property. P. 363.
An employee of a circus was injured~by the negligent operation of a
passenger train of a railroad company while traveling upon a train
owned by the circus, which was being hauled over the tracks of the
railroad company by its locomotive and crew pursuant to a special
contract declaring the company not a common carrier therein and
not liable for negligence. Held, that the employee was not a
passenger of the railroad company, and that his cause of action was
based on the general right not to be injured by the negligence of
another. Id.
Writ of error to review 100 Nebraska, 237, dismissed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

