WATTEIf8 r. MICHIGAN.
55.

Syllabus.

necessary to deal specifically with all the details brought
up by the dragnet of the plaintiff's exceptions and assignments of error, sixty-nine in number and occupying more
than sixty pages of the record. Central Vermont Ry. Co.
v. White, 238 U. S. 507, 508, 509. Several exceptions were
taken to the exclusion of statements by third persons of
their reasons for refusing or ceasing to do business with
the plaintiff. We should be slow to overthrow a judgment on the ground of either the exclusion or admission
of such statements except in a very strong case. But
the exclusion in this instance was proper. The statement was wanted not as evidence of the motives of the
speakers but as evidence of the facts recited as furnishing
the motives. Lawlor v. Loewe, 235 U. S. 522, 536; Elmer
v. Fessenden, 151 Massachusetts, 359, 362. In view of
the finding of the jury the rulings as to damages are
immaterial and need no discussion here. The defendant
put in evidence tending to show that its conduct was not
the cause of the plaintiff's failure, and its evidence, or
the weakness of the plaintiff's, prevailed. Our conclusion upon the whole case is that the plaintiff has had
a fair trial and that the judgment should not be disturbed.
Judgment affirmed.
WATTERS v. PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF
MICHIGAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
No. 58.

Submitted November 19,1918.-Decided December 9,1918.

Whether a city ordinance regulating peddling and canvassing from
house to house for sale of property on subscription, is confined to
a general course of such business or applies also to isolated transactions, is a local question determinable by the state court.
192 Michigan, 462, affirmed.

OCTOBER TEI'PM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

Tim case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Maurice B. Dean for plaintiff in error.
No appearance for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error was complained of for having
engaged in peddling goods and having canvassed and
taken orders from house to house for the sale of goods
in the city of Munising, Michigan, without having received a license as required by a city ordinance. It may
be assumed that much the greater part of his business
was interstate 'commerce and free from any obligation
that the ordinance imposed. But in the course of his
business he did sell two cans of toilet cream that were at
rest in the State before the sale, and it is admitted that
this transaction was not protected from state legislation.
Bacon v. Illinois, 227 U. S. 504. On this ground the
Supreme Court of the State sustained a conviction and
fine. 192 Michigan, 462. The ordinance makes it unlawful to engage in peddling any goods or to canvass
from house to house for the sale of property on subscription without a license, which may be had on payment of
specified fees.' The plaintiff in error argues that the
application of this law should be determined by the general course of business, not by an isolated transaction,
and the argument has force. It depends, however, on
the construction of the ordinance, and as the State Court
has construed it to apply to and forbid the act proved,
the judgment must be affirmed.
Judgment affirmed.

