,UNITED STATES v. COMYNS.
334.

Syllabus.

price; it mentioned only (a) plaintiff's outlay, and (b)
the lost profits, embodied no duplication of elements, and
was not erroneous.
Having found that none of the grounds relied upon by
the Circuit Court of Appeals for reversal of the judgment
of the trial court is tenable, it remains to consider what
judgment ought to have been rendered upon the record
and bill of exceptions, in view of the assignments of error
other than those we have thus far considered. United
States v. U. S. Fidelity Co., 236 U. S. 512, 528. There were
101 assignments in all, and these have been examined with
the aid of respondent's brief, which extends to 250 pages;
in addition to the oral argument; but we have found no
ground for reversing the judgment of the trial court.
Judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed, and
that of the District Court affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. COMYNS ET AL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.
No. 235.

Argued November 4, 5, 1918.-Decided Jknuary 7, 1919.

A bill of particulars supplementing an indictment is no part of the
record for the purpose of deciding a demurrer.
An indictment alleged a scheme to defraud divers persons, through use
of the mails, by representing that certain land1could be purchased by
them under 6 e Timber & Stone Act for less than its value, and tha
defendants would secure it for them in return for fees part payable
in advance, and would refund such advance payments in case of
non-success, whereas the defendants well knew they could not carry
out the agreement, but intended to secure the advance payments
and to appropriate them to their own use.
etld: (1) That a decision sustaining a demurrer was based upon a con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

'5A8 U. S.

struction of § 215 of the Criminal Code, and was reviewable under
the Criminal Appeals Act.
(2) Thot the indictment charged a "scheme or artifice to defraud,"
etc., within the meaning of said § 215.
Reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Kearful for the United
States.
Mr. Charles A. Keigwin, with whom Mr. William R.
Andrews was on the briefs, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a review under the Criminal Appeals Act (March
2, 1907, c. 2564, 34 Stat. 1246), of a judgment of the District Court sustaining a demurrer to an indictment found
under § 215 of the Criminal Code (Act of March 4, 1909,
c. 321, 35 Stat. 1088, 1130).
That section provides: "Whoever, having devised or
intending to devise any scheme or artifice to defraud, or
for obtaining money or property by means of false or
fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises,
.
shall, for the purpose of executing such scheme
or artifice or attempting so to do, place, or cause to be
placed, any letter . . . in any post-office, or station
thereof, . . . to be sent or delivered by, the postoffice establishment of the United States
.
shall
.be fined,

.

.

.

"

etc.

The indictment contains four counts, but a recital of
the first will suffice, since the others adopt by reference
that part of its averments upon which is raised the question we have to determine. Omitting formal matters,
that count recites that Comyns and Byron had devised a
scheme and artifice to defraud nine persons named and

UNITED STATES v. COMYNS.
349.

Opinion of the Court.

divers other persons to the grand jurors unknown, that is
to say, to obtain from them and each of them their moneys
and property by means of divers false lnd fraudulent pretenses and representations and to induce the victims to
give to the defendants and each of them such moneys
and property, with the intent on the part of the defendants
and each of them to convert the same to their own use,
which scheme was as follows: that defendants should represent that Comyns was a lawyer, admitted to practice
before the United States Land Office, and that Byron was
a locator, "and that they could locate said parties and
secure for them the preference right to purchase from the
United States of America under the Timber and Stone
Act of June 3, 1878 [20 Stat. 89, c. 151],, certain land
within the Western District of Washington for the sum of
$2.50 per acre, by filing an application to purchase under
said act, and that the said property was worth more than
that sum"; and that they would agree with the parties
to be defrauded that they would charge each of them a
fee for locating them and securing for them the title to
said land, a part of the fee, called the initial fee, to be
paid at the time of making the agreement, and the balance
when title to the land was secured, "and that if said
parties to be defrauded failed to get title to said land,
then the said defendants and each of them would refund
tc said parties to be defrauded the amount of the fee
already so paid to said defendants"; whereas, as defendants and each of them knew, defendants could not locate
said parties and could not secure for them the preference
right to prchase the land mentioned for $2.50 per acre
by filing said application; "and the agreement, as to the
land, to be performed in consideration of the payment of
said fee was for the purpose of securing the payment of
said initial fee and for the purpose of delaying the said
parties to be defrauded from demanding the repayment
of said initial fee and for the purpose of preventing said

OCTOBER TERM,

918.

Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

parties to be defrauded from discovering the fact that
they had been defrauded and disclosing said fact to others,
and said defendants and each of them intended to appropriate to their own use and the use of each of said defendants said initial fee, and did not intend to refund said
initial fee or any part thereof if said parties to be defrauded
failed to get title to said land in accordance with said
agreement." Then follows an averment that defendants
made use of the mails for the purpose of executing the
scheme by causing a letter inclosing a timber and stone
application to be sent by mail to the Register of the Land
Office.
At first the demurrer was overruled by the District
Court, but at the same time it was ordered that the
Government should furnish a bill of particulars "stating
the reason why the land in question could not be secured
by the applicants." A bill of particulars was filed setting
up, in brief, that the lands could not be secured under the
Timber and Stone Act (a) because they were covered by a
list of selections made by the State of Washington in lieu of
school sections 16 and 36; and (b) because the statements
to be made in the application as to the character of the
land were to be made on information and belief, and not
from the applicant's personal knowledge after examination of the land as required by the rules of the General
Land Office. The defendants moved to strike out the bill
of particulars, and this was treated by the District Court
as a petition for a rehearing of the demurrer to the indictment as amplified by the bill of particulars; and thereupon
the demurrer was sustained.
Notwithstanding a contention to the contrary, it seems
to us that the decision was based upon a construction of
§ 215 of the Criminal Code, and hence that we have
jurisdiction under the Criminal Appeals Act. United
States v. Patten,226 U. S. 525, 535; United States v. Nixon,
235 U. S. 231, 235.

UNITED STATES v. COMYNS.
349.

Opinion of the Court.

In'reviewing the judgment we shall disregard the bill of
particulars, since this forms no part of the record for the
purposes of the demurrer. Dunlop v. United States, 165
U. S. 486, 491.
In brief, the indictment avers that the scheme of defendants was to induce their intended victims to part with
their money by representing to them that certain land
(not described except generally as being located in the
Western District of Washington) could be purchased from
the United States under the Timber and Stone Act for
less than its real value if the victims would employ defendants to secure such land and would pay a part of the
proposed fee in advance; the defendants agreeing at the
same time that in case of non-success the money thus
prepaid would be refunded; whereas in truth, as defendants well knew, for some reason not specified they could
not carry out the agreement, and the purpose of making
it was to secure the payment of the initial fee by the
intended victims, which defendants intended to appropriate to their own use and did not intend to refund in
case of a failure to secure title in accordance with the
agreement.
In our opinion such a scheme is a "scheme or artifice
to defraud . . . by means of false or fraudulent
pretenses, representations, or promises" within the meaning of § 215 of the Criminal Code. To use the mails in
order to carry out a scheme for getting money by the
making of promises or agreements which, whether known
to be impossible of performance or not, there is no intention to perform, is a forbidden use of the facilities of the
post office department. Durland v. United States, 161
U. S. 306, 313. The District Court erred in holding otherwise, and its judgment is
Reversed.

