OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

248 U. S.

may be required, within a reasonable time, to remove its
pipes from the streets. Detroit United Railway v. Detroit,
229 U. S. 39, 46. . . . In view of that right of the
City, which, if exercised, would make the Company's
whole plant valueless as such, the question recurs whether
the fixing of any rate by the City could be said to confiscate property on the ground that the return was too low.
The ordinance of the City could mean no more
than that the Company must accept the City's rates or
stop-and as it could be stopped by the City out and out,
the general. principle is that it could be stopped unless a
certain price should be paid."
For the reasons thus stated, I think that the ordinance
is valid, and that the judgment of the District Court should
be affirmed, and therefore I am compelled to dissent from
the opinion and judgment of the court.
I am authorized to say that MR. JUSTICE HOLMES and
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS concur in this opinion.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY v. STEWART.
ERROR

No. 89.

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
Submitted December 20, 1918.-Decided January 13, 1919.

As to the jurisdiction in this case, see s. c. 245 U. S. 359; id. 562.
A stipulation in a contract governed by the Carmack Amendment for
the interstate transportation of live stock released the carrier from
all loss or damage unless a written claim therefor were made on the
carrier's freight claim agent within ten days after unloading of the
live stock. Held valid, under St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern
Ry. Co. v. Starbird,243 U. S. 592, and E'ie R.R' Co. v. Stone, 244

SOUTHERN PAC. CO. v. STEWART.
446.

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 332; and observance not excused by the fact that the amount
of the loss could not be ascertained within the period specified; nor
waived by the fact that the carrier, with ,-6bwledge of the situation,
negotiated for a compromise before and after the period had expired.
233 Fed. Rep. 956, reversed.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Henley C. Booth, Mr. William R.Harr, Mr. Charles
H. Bates, Mr. C. F. R. Ogilby and Mr. William F. Herrin
for plaintiff in error. Mr. Guy V. Shoup was also on the
brief.
Mr. P. H. Hayes for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCRBYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
court.

Stewart sued for damages sustained in transit by dairy
cows delivered July 1, 1913, to plaintiff in error for shipment over its railroad from California to Phoenix, Arizona,
under a "live stock shipping order contract and bill of
lading" signed both by himself and it, which, among other
things, provided:
"Second party [the shipper] hereby further agrees that
in case any loss or damage shall have been sustained for
which first party is liable, demand or claim for such loss
or damage will be made by second party on the Freight
Claim Agent of first party, in writing, within ten days
after unloading of the live stock; and that in event of
failure so to do, all claims for loss or damage in the premises are hereby expressly waived, released and made void,
and it is also expressly agreed by second party that the
amount to be by him claimed for each animal as described
herein, so lost or damaged, shall be adjusted on basis of
value at time and place of shipment, not exceeding the
declared value as hereinbefore set forth, and on which

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

declared value the rate. or rates of transportation hereinbefore named by first, party are based, and in no event is
there to be any recovery from first party or its lessors for
any loss of or damage to said live stock, from whatsoever

cause arising in excess of the declared value hereinbefore
set forth."
As one ground of defense the company relied upon noncompliance with the above-quoted provision. In reply
the shipper alleged and at the trial introduced evidence
tending to establish facts .and circumstances as follows:
He admitted that the cattle were unloaded and received
by him July 5, 1913, at Phcenix and that he made no
written claim for. loss or damage upon any agent of the
carrier within ten days thereafter. But he denied that
he could have given notice of his claim within such time
or that he had waived or released it.
He alleged that on July 4, 1913, and subsequently the
carrier had full knowledge of injuries sustained by the
cattle; that they were unloaded into its stock-pens at
Yuma July 4, 1913, and prior to reloading five died; that
they remained in the stock-pens there without shelter or
protection nine hours, under care of carrier's agents;
that upon reloading it provided an additional car for sick
and crippled cows; that at various points en route the
train officials received inquiries from other railroad officials
as to conditions and after arrival at Phoenix one of the
crippled animals remained several days in a car; that
immediately after unloading at Phcenix and daily until
October 21, shipper and the railroad agents were in communication relative to damages sustained; that the nature
and extent of injuries to cows which arrived at destination
alive made it impossible to determine within ten days the
extent of damage sustained; and that a number of cattle
died many days after their arrival at Phcenix.
He further alleged that about October 21, 1913, after
repeated efforts to determine the damages, shipper made

SOUTHERN PAC. CO. v. STEWART.
446.

Opinion of the Court.

demand in writing for $1,570, and on December 15th,
as soon as he was able to ascertain nature and extent of
the injuries, made written demand for $2,695; that the
carrier had repeatedly waived requirement for demand
within ten days by recognizing the shipper's right to recover something and attempting to settle and compromise;
and that subsequent to October 21st carrier through its
claim agents had twice attempted to adjust with the shipper the loss and damage sustained.
The trial court refused to direct a verdict in defendant's
favor. Among other things, it said to the jury: "I charge
you as a matter of law that if you believe the defendant or
its agents or employees did know that five or more of the
cattle died while in transit, and also believe that the defendant was negotiating with the plaintiff for a settlement
of his claim, and that the defendant knew that the cattle
had been injured as alleged in plaintiff's complaint, then
the plaintiff was relieved and released from the giving
of such notice of loss or injury within ten days as requiired
by the said provisions of said contracts." The Circuit
Court of Appeals affirmed a judgment entered upon verdict
for the shipper July 3, 1916, 233 Fed. Rep. 956, and, in
the course of its opinion, said: "There was proof tending
to sustain all the facts so alleged in the [plaintiff's] reply.
We think, therefore, that the court below committed no
error in instructing the jury that in view of the evidence,
if they found it to be true, the plaintiff was relieved and
released from giving notice within the ten days."
We have jurisdiction and the motion to dismiss based
upon another view is denied. See Southern Pacific Co. v.
Stewart, 245 U. S. 359 and 562.
Considering the principles and conclusions approved by
our opinions in St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern Ry.
Co. v. Starbird, 243 U. S. 592, and Erie R. R. Co. v. Stone,
244 U. S. 332 (announced since the judgment below) and
the cases therein cited, no extended discussion is necessary

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

248 U. S.

to show that upon the facts here disclosed the stipulation
between the parties as to notice in writing within ten days
of any claim for damages was valid. And we also think
those opinions make it clear that the circumstances relied
upon by the shipper are inadequate to show a waiver
by the carrier of written notice as required by the contract.
The trial court erred in giving to the jury the instruction
quoted above; and it should have granted the carrier's
request for a directed verdict.
The judgment of the court' is reversed and the cause
remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this
opinion.
Reversed and remanded.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA and MR. JUSTICE CLARKE dissent.

.COHN v. MALONE, TRUSTEE OF COHN,
BANKRUPT.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 96.

Argued December 18, 1918.-Decided January 13, 1919.

The cash surrender value of a life insurance policy which is payable
to the executors, administrators or assigns of the insured, or payable
to specified persons with a right in the insured to change the beneficiaries, is assets subject to distribution under the Bankruptcy Act.
Cohen v. Samuels, 245 U. S. 50.
Section 2498 of the Georgia Code, 1910, providing that an insured may
assign .his life insurance by directing payment to his personal representative, or to his widow, or to his children, or to his assignee,
and that no other person can defeat such direction when assented to

