IOWA v. SLIMMER.

115

Argument for Complainant.

STATE OF IOWA 'v. SLIMMER ET AL.
MOTION. FOR LEAVE TO FILE BILL OF COMPLAINT.
No. -, Original.

Argued April 15, 1918.-Decided December 9, 1918;

A motion to file an original bill will be denied when the complaining
State is clearly not entitled to the relief sought. P. 120.
Where the only effective relief sought is to enjoin the administration
by the courts of another State of personal property (in this case
notes and bonds) located there at the time of the owner's death,
relief must clearly be denied; because, even. though the property may
have been fraudulently placed there to avoid taxation in the complainant State, which is alleged to be the domicile of the owner, the
State of the actual situs had the right to administer the property. Id.
Motion for leave to file bill of complaint denied.

THE case is stated in, the opinion.
Mr. H. M. Haner, Attorney General of the, State of
Iowa; with whom Mr. Burton E. Sweet was on the brief,
for complainant, contended:
That the decedent was at the time of his death and previously a resident of Iowa, and the property had been
placed and kept in Minnesota, and the Minnesota pro-ceedings set on foot, to defraud Iowa of her rights of taxation. This was alleged in the bill, whose allegations stood
unchallenged. Looking at the matter from the international and interstate standpoints, correct doctrine required that original probate and principal administration
be had in Iowa, the State of domicile. Iowa had a special
interest in insisting that this be done because under her
laws, upon the admitted facts, she was entitled to collect
back taxes upon the property for five years during which
they hadibeen eluded, to tax it during administration, and
to tax for -collateral inheritance. And under the laws of

OtTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for the State of Minnesota.

248 U. S.

Iowa it required primary administration to avail of these
rights.
Even assuming that Minnesota would entertain these
claims in her courts, relief would depend on their finding

as to domicile; and, Iowa, a sovereign State, should not be
compelled to litigate her rights in a possibly hostile forum.
Indeed, the very purpose of the Constitution, Art. III, § 2,
par. 2, and the act of Congress (Jud. Code, §233), concerning the original jurisdiction of this court, was to
fuviish an impartial tribunal in such cases. See Chisholm
v. Ceotgia, 2 Dall. 419, 475; Wisconsin v. Pelican Insurance Co., 127 U. S. 265, 289. That jurisdiction depends
upon the character of thq parties and not upon the nature
of the action. Californiav. Southern Pacific Co., 157 U. S.
229. If the lower federal courts will entertain a bill between citizens with reference to a testator's domicile, where
that question is material (Harrisonv. Nixon, 9 Pet. 483),
a sovereign State has a right to have that question determined here in an original action.
On the face of the bill, the original jurisdiction exists.
*It is no answer to say that 4 owa may go to the courts of
Minnesota: If she did so, there would be no right to have
an adverse decision reviewed by this court, because there
would be no federal question. Nor is it an answer that
cases of this character would unnecessarily burden the
docket of this court, If jurisdiction exists under the Constitution, Iowa has a right to a determination.
Mr. Thomas D. O'Brien, with whom Mr. Edward T.
Young and Mr. Alexander E. Horn were on the brief, for
defendants.
Mr. Clifford L. Hilton, Attorney General of the State of
Minnesota, and Mr. Egbert S. Oakley, Assistant Attorney
.General of the State of Minnesota, in a separate brief on
behalf of that State, contended:
It is for the state legislatures to prescribe how property

IOWA v. SLIMMER.
115.

Opinion of the Court.

is to be assessed and to provide the remedies by means of
which the payment of the taxes levied shall be accomplished. The legislative remedies are exclusive, and if they
fail, the collection of the tax must also fail. Plymouth
County v. Moore, 114 Iowa, 700; Prestonv. Sturgis Milling
Co., 183 Fed. Rep. 1, 3; Preston v. Chicago, St. Louis &
N. 0. R. R. Co., 183 Fed. Rep. 20, 22; Postal Telegraph
Cable Co. v. Alabama, 155 U. S. 482, 487.
The probate courts in Minnesota, under the state constitution and statutes, have exclusive jurisdiction to control and administer the personal assets within its borders
of a resident or nonresident decedent. Schouler on Wills,
5th ed., § 1091; Wilkins v. Ellett, 108 U. S. 256, 258;
Baker v. Baker, Eccles & Co.. 242 U. S. 394, 401; Hanson
v. Nygaard, 105 Minnesota, 30; Byers v. McAuley, 149
U. S. 608; Borer v. Chapman, 119 U. S. 587, 600; Moran v.
Sturges, 154 U. S. 256, 274; Rev. Stats., § 720, now Jud.
Code, § 265; Whitney v. Wilder, 54 Fed. Rep. 554; Gregory
v. Lansing, 115 Minnesota, 73; Putnam v. Pittman, 45
Minnesota, 242; New Orleans v. Stempel, 175 U. S. 309;
Wheeler v. New York, 233 U. S. 434.
MR. JUSTIcE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
court.
With a view to collecting ultimately at least $13,750 for
taxes which the State of Iowa alleges it is entitled to have
assessed and levied against the property of Abraham
Slimmer, deceased, it asks leave to file in this court an
original bill of complaint against the State of Minnesota,
Abraham Slimmer, Junior, and Charles Bechhoefer, citizens of Minnesota, and Adolph Lipman, a citizen of Wisconsin. The bill alleges in substance as follows:
1. Slimmer, who had for many years been a resident of
and domiciled in Iowa, died there testatc on August 15,
1917 leaving personal property valued at $550,000, and

OCTOBER TEIM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

consisting, with the exception of personal effects and a few
United States Liberty Bonds, wholly of promissory notes.
All of this property, except the personal effects and one
note for $3,000, was then in Minnesota in the possession
of Slimmer Junior, who had had custody of the decedent's
property for at least five years before his death. The
$3,000 note was brought by him and Bechhoefer into
Minnesota immediately thereafter.
2. For the period of at least five years before his death,
Slimmer Senior had conspired with Slimmer Junior and
Bechhoefer to defraud the State of Iowa of taxes which,
by reason of his domicil in Iowa, might and should have
been assessed there against his property during lis life
time; and to this end he had arranged with them that his
will (if he should leave one)-should be probated in Minnesota; had placed in the custody of Slimmer Junior, in
Minnesota, all his property except his personal effects
and the one note for $3,000; and had concealed his property
from the Iowa officials and refused to return the same for
taxation there.
3. Pursuant to this conspiracy, Slimmer Junior and
Bechhoefer filed his will for probate in Minnesota on or
about August 21, 1917, and procured the appointment of
Bechhoefer as special administrator; and by falsely claiming that decedent was domiciled there, secured ex parte
a finding to that effect, the probate of the will, and the
appointment of ther-elves as executors. From this decree, the defendant Lipman, claiming to be an heir, appealed; and this appeal, which is now pending, has the
effect of suspending the decree and leaving the property
in the hands of the special administrator. The State of
Iowa has not become a party to these proceedings.
4. Under the laws of Iowa, omissions to list and assess
property may be corrected and the taxes collected within
five years from the date of such omission. But the amount
properly payable for taxes by Slimmer's estate cannot be

IOWA r. SLIMMER.
115.

Opinion of the Court.

collected without assessment and levy thereof against
his personal representatives; and such assessment and
levy must be made within the State of Iowa.
5. On January 7, 1918, the District Court of Dubuque
County, Iowa, (in a proceeding begun apparently on or
about that day) decreed, at the instance of the treasurer
of that State, that Slimmer Senior was domiciled therein,
and granted to one Mullany letters of, administration
of his estate. About the same date the State, learning
that Slimmer Junior and Bechhoefer were about to come
into it for the purpose of taking testimony in the Minnesota probate proceedings, obtained from said district
court an injunction restraining the witness from tostifying and the designated officers from taking their depositions. Slimmer Junior and Bechhoefer have not been
served in the Iowa suit and have declared their purpose
to avoid service within that State.
The bill prays that it be adjudged and decreed: (a) that
Slimmer Senior had for more than five years prior to his
death been domiciled in Iowa;. (b) that his estate consisted
of evidences of indebtedness to him and that no part of
his estate was, at his death, in Minnesota; (c) that l ,a
has, and Minnesota has not, jurisdiction to administer
upon his estate; and prays also (d) that such order be
entered as will ensure the dismissal of fhe Minnosota
probate proceedings, and the administration of the estate
in Iowa; and (e) that, pending this suit, an injunction
issue restraining the prosecution of the Minnesota probate proceedings.
The motion for leave to file the bill was submitted ex
parte. In view of doubt entertained as to the propriety of
granting it, consideration of the application was postponed
(as in Minnesota v. Northern Securities Co., 184 U. S. 199,
and Washington v. Northern Securities Co., 185 U. 4.
254) so that the parties might be heard; and the motion
was fully argued orally and upon briefs. Both the State

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

of Minnesota and the individual defendants, other than
Lipman, objected to the granting of leave to file the bill.
The State objected on the grounds that the only effective
relief sought was an injunction against a proceeding in a
state court; that the Minnesota probate court had exclusive jurisdiction to administer assets of a decedent
within its borders, regardless of his domicil; and alsothat
there was no authority granted by the state legislature for
such an action in the federal courts. The individual defendants objected on the grounds that the Iowa administrator was the proper party plaintiff; that he was in
any event a necessary party and joining him would oust
the court of jurisdiction; that the relief sought would deny
to the action of the, Minnesota court full faith and credit;
and that plaintiff had an adequate remedy at law. The
original jurisdiction of the court to entertain a bill of this
character was also questioned. Only one of these objections need be considered, for it presents a conclusive
reason why leave to file the bill of complaint should be
denied.
Substantially the whole of decedent's estate consisted
of notes and bonds. Under an arrangement which had
been in force for five years or more, these securities were,
at the time of his death, in Minnesota in the custody and
possession of an 'agent resident there. Minnesota imposes inheritance taxes; and its statutes provide (Minnesota Gen. Stats., 1913, §,2281) that no transfer of the
property of a nonresident decedent shall be made until the
taxes due thereon shall have been paid. Regardless of the
domicil of the decedent, these notes and bonds were subject to probate proceedings in that State and likewise
subject,'at least; to inheritance taxes. Minnesota Gen.
Stats., 1913, §§ 7205, 2271; Bristol v. Washington County;
177 U. S. 133; Wheeler v. New York, 233 U. S. 434. Furthermore, so far as concerns the property of the decedent,
located at his death in Minnesota, the probate courts of

TEMPEL v. UNITED STATES.
115.

Syllabus.

that State had jurisdiction to determine the domicil.
Overby v. Gordon, 177 U. S. 214. But even if decedent
was not domiciled in Minnesota, its court had the poWer
either to distribute property located there according to
the terms of the will applicable thereto, or to direct that
it be transmitted to the personal representative of the decedent at the place of his domicil to be disposed of by hini.
Minnesota Gen. Stats., 1913, § 7278; Harvey v. Richards,
1 Mason, 381. See Wilkins v. Ellett, 108 U. S. 256, 258.
On or about August 21, 1917, Slimmer's executors filed
their petition in the probate court for Ramsey County,
Minnesota; and the court, in the exercise of its jurisdiction, appointed the defendant Bechhoefer, special administrator. As such, he took and now holds, pending
an appeal to the state district court, possession of the whole
of decedent's estate, consisting of the notes and Liberty
Bonds as well as the personal effects. The only cffective
relief sought here is to enjoin the further administration
of the estate of the deceased by the courts of Minnesota.
It is clear that the State of iowa is not entitled to such
relief.
The motion for leave to file the bill of complaint is,
therefore,
Denied.

TEMPEL

'.

UNITED STATES.

ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF TIE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 29.

Argued November 5, 1917.-Decided December 9,1918.

Not knowing that certain land on the Chicago River had become submerged through excavations privately made without the owner's
consent, the Government, believing it to be within the de jure stream,

