OCTOBER TEIM, 1918.
Syllabus.

248 U, S.

as was held, they preciade an inquiry in these procee'ings
into the confiscatory character of the rates irn present
circumstances. But the defendant had had its chance to
have the validity of the rates judicially determined in a
suit for that purpose and had used it. Detroit & Mackinac
Ry. Co. v. Michigan Railroad Commission, 235 T. S. 402.
There is nothing to hinder a State from providing that
after a judicial inquiry into the validity of such an order
it shall be binding upon the parties until changed. The
defendant was free to apply to the Commission.
A milling-in-transit rate allowing the defendant to add
fifty cents a thousand feet on lumber if, instead of being
carried on, after it was manufactured, on the through
rate, the product was not reshipped by the defendant's
line, was held to be permitted by the statute. It is said
that this would be contrary to the Interstate Commerce
Act if these cases involved interstate commerce, which
they do not. We see no question concerning it that requires to be dealt with here.
Judgments affirmed.

PALMER ET AL. v. STATE OF OHIO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 260.

Motion to affirm submitted October 28, 1918.-DeciduI NYvember 18, 1918.

The right of individuals to sue a State depends entirely on the consent
of that State.
Whether an amendment of the Ohio constitution (Art. I, ยง 16, as
amended 1912) gives such consent directly or requires legislation to
put it into effect, held a question of local law, in no sense involving
rights under the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
of individuals suing the State for damage to property.

PALMER v. OHIO.
32.

Opinion of the Court.

The Fifth Amendment relates to federal action only.
Upon error to a state court, this court, finding no substantial federal
question, will dismiss, sua sponte, denying a motion to affirm.
Writ of error to rekiew 96 Ohio St. 513, dismissed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Clarence D. Laylin and Mr. Frank Davis, Jr., for
defendant in error, submitted the motion. Mr. Joseph
McGhee, Attorney General of the State of Ohio, was also
on the brief.
Mr. I. F. Raudabaughand Mr. John G.Romer, for plaintiffs in error, in opposition to the motion.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiffs in error sued the State of Ohio for damages for flooding lands by elevating the spillway of a statemaintained dam. The Supreme Court of the State affumed the action of the lower courts in dismissing the
petition on the ground that the State had not consented
so to be sued, and we are asked to review this decisior.
The plaintiffs in error agree, as they must, that their
suit canot be maintained without the consent of the
State, but they claim that such consent was given in an
amendment to ยง 16 of Article I of the state constitution,
adopted in 1912, which reads:
"Sudis inay be brought agabimst the State, in such courts
and in such maiiner, as may be provided by law."
The State Supreme Court held that this amendment is
not self-executing, and that the General Assembly of the
State having failed to designate the courts and the manner
in which such suits might be brought, effective consent
to sue had not been given. This decision, the plaintiffs
in error claim, vaguely and indefinitely, somehow deprives
them of their property without due process of law, in

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
The right of individuals to sue a State, in either a
federal or a state court, cannot be derived from the Constitution or laws of the United States. It can come only
from the consent of the State. Beers v. Arkansas, 20
How. 527; Railroad Company v. Tennessee, 101 U. S. 337;
Hans v. Louisiana, 134 U. S. 1. Whether Ohio gave the
required consent must be determined by the construction to be given to the constitutional amendment quoted,
and this is a question of local state law, as to which the
decision of the State Supreme Court is controlling with
this court, no federal right being involved. Elmendorf v.
Taylor, 10 Wheat. 152, 159; Old Colony Trust Co. V.
Omaha, 230 U. S. 100, 116; Memphis Street Ry. Co. v.
Moore, 243 U. S. 299, 301.
The further claim that the plaintiffs in error axe deprived of their property without compensation in violation of the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States, is palpably groundless. Barron v. Baltimore, 7 Pet. 243, 250; Brown v. New Jersey, 175 U. S.
172, 174.
No federal question being presented by the record, the
motion to affirm is denied and this court, sua sponte, dismisses the writ of error for want of jurisdiction.
Dismissed.

