OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

248 U. S.

ities. And it is the safer reliance, the accommodation
of all the circumstances that induced it. It was for the
parties to consider them, and to accept their estimate is
not to do injustice but accord to each the due of the law
determined by their own judgment and convention, which
represented, we may suppose, what there was of advantage
or disadvantage as well in the rates as in the risks.
It is asserted, however, that the vessel in this case did
not break ground and that this fact distinguishes the case
from Nos. 449 and 450. The fact does not deflect the principle of those cases. It was not made to depend upon thc
fact of breaking ground, but upon the bills of lading which
provided for the payment of freight upon the shipment
of the goods and the right to retain it though the goods
were not carried, their carriage being prevented by causes
beyond the control of the carrier.
Therefore, upon the authority of those cases, the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals in this case is
Affirmed.

STANDARD VARNISH WORKS v. STEAMSHIP
"BRIS,"
REDERIAKTIEBOLAGET
BORE,
CLAIMANT.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 745.

Argued December 13, 1918.-Decided January 13, 1919.

The bill of lading provided that prepaid freight should be considered
earned on shipment of the goods and be retained by the vesselowners, "vessel or cargo lost or not lost, or if there be a forced interruption or abandonment of the voyage at a port of distress or
elsewhere;" that in case the ship should he prevented from reachinq
destination by war or the hostile act of any power, the master might

THE " BRIS.'
STANDARD VARNISH WORKS i,.
392.

393

Argument for Standard Varnish Works.

await removal of the obstacle, discharge the goods at any depot or
convenient port, or bring them back to the port of shipment, where
the ship's responsibility should cease; and it exempted the carrier
from loss "by arrest and restraint of princes, rulers or people."
War measures taken by the Government respecting such goods soon
after shipment made it impossible to carry them to destination and
they were redelivered at the port of shipment without breaking
ground. Held, that the carrier was not obliged to refund the freight.
Allanwilde Transport Corporation v. Vacuum Oil Co., ante, 377;
InternationalPaper Co. v. The GracieD. Chambers, ante, 387. P. 398.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Julius J. Frank and Mr. Everett P. Wheeler for
Standard Varnish Works:
The bill of lading should be construed as a whole, with
reference to the main object-transportation to and delivery at destination. Reasonable effect should be given
to it by holding that if the contract should not be performed by the shipowner he is not liable in damages to
the shipper, but shall not retain the freight.
The action of the Gov'ernment constituted "commercial
frustration of the adventure," which dissolves the contract. Horlock v. Beal, 114 L. T. 193; Admiral Shipping
Co. v. Weidner, Hopkins & Co., 114 L. T. 171; Tamplin S.
S. Co. v. Anglo-Mexican Co., 115 L. T. 315. It therefore
dissolves the agreement that freight is earned on shipment of the goods. The word "irrevocable" in the contract in The Gracie D. Chambers, 253 Fed. Rep. 182
[ante, 387], is not used in this contract. The same rule
which excuses failure to deliver, under the restraints of
princes clause, also deprives of the right to retain prepaid
freight. As there is a failure of consideration, advances
made under the contract can be recovered. Spring Co.
v. Knowlton, 103 U. S. 49; American Union Tel. Co. v.
Union Pacific R. R. Co., 1 McCr. 188.
Clauses 6 and 7 of the bill of lading are to be strictly

O(TOBER TERM, 1918.
Arguneub f,

l
stnIdara \rius

A ork

248 U.

.

construed An favor ol the shipper. Tne stipuiation tlia
prepaid freight is to be retainecd applies only if the vessei
sails and is lost. Christie v. Dauis Coal & Coke Co., 95
Fed. Rep. 837, 838; 110 Fed. Rep. 1006; Great Indian hy.
Co. v. Turnbull, 53 L. T. 325; Ex parte Nyhohn, 29 L. T.
634; The Tornado, -08 U. S. 342; Kelly v. Johnson, z
Wash. C. C. 45; Scrutton, Charter Parties, 8th ed., Art.
137. The final clause and clause 7 likewise apply oniy
after the voyage has been begun. While they excuse
failure to perform, they do not entitle the vessel to claim
freight. Kelly v. Johnson, supra. This construction is in
accord with The Carib Prince, 170 U. S. 655; The Caledonia, 157 U. S. 124.
Prepayment of freight was subject to the implied condition that performance would continue to be legal. The
contract was one not for delivery of the goods to the ship,
but for transportation to and delivery at destination. The
reception was only an incident.
While the carrier may throw the risk of the loss of goods
upon the shipper, it cannot throw upon him the risk of
losing his advance freight through prevention of the voyage by act of the law. The shipper may insure against
the former, but not the latter. The contention that there
is no distinction in the construction of clauses against repayment of advance freight, whether the voyage has been
begun or not, is untenable. When the voyage is begun it
is subject to perils of the sea, and in case of war to breaking up; but while the vessel is in her home port there are
no perils.
The carrier might have performed the contract if it
had acted with due diligence. It received the cargo and
issued its bill of lading a fortnight before the proclamation
requiring a license was made. The shipper did not release
the carrier from its obligation except on repayment of
prepaid freight. The government regulations requiring
>icenses cannot be urged as a j uslicaLicuo unless the crriui;

STANDARD VARNISH WORKS v,. THE " BRIS."
392.

395

Argument for Standard Varnish Works.

tenders the prepaid freight. Non constat but that the shipper would have been willing to await a revocation of the
regulations or that, sooner or later, an exception might
have been made in favor of the shipment. The carrier
must either perform, declare its readiness before breach to
perform on removal of the obstacles arising without its
fault, or ask cancellation of its obligation upon refund of
what it had received as compensation for performance.
The carrier might have provided for the contingency
which actually arose. But it did not attempt to exact
an agreement that prepaid freight might be retained even
though it should unload the cargo at the shipper's expense without the ship's having left her moorings, which
would hardly have succeeded with any shipper. Such an
agreement cannot be said to have been contemplated.
The bill of lading does not authorize the carrier under any
circumstances to unload and return any cargo before
commencing the voyage, even upon tender of prepaid
freight.
The case is to be decided on the merits of each clause as
presented, leaving the parties to work out the problem
of insurance for themselves. The Prussia, 93 Fed. Rep.
837; The Montana, 129 U. S. 397.
If the bill of lading be construed as contended for by the
carrier, the clauses relied upon are against the policy
of the law of this country and are invalid. The Kensington, 183 U. S. 263; Chicago &c. Ry. Co. v. Solan, 169 U. S.
133, 135; Calderon v. Atlas S. S. Co., 170 U. S. 279, 282;
Adams Express Co. v. Croninger, 226 U. S. 491, 509. The
clauses in question also would be void under the Harter
Act, §§ 1, 2, which prohibits the shipowner- from limiting
his liability for acts done before the inception of the voyage.
Mr. Clarence Bishop Smith, with whom Mr. Charles S.
Haight was on the brief, for Steamship "Bris," etc.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

248 U. S.

'delivered the opinion of the

court.
This case was submitted with Nos. 449 and 450 [AllanWilde Transport Corporationv. Vacuum OU-Co., ante, 377],
and No. 479, [International Paper Co. v. The Gracie D.
Chambers, ante, 387], being. a suit in admiralty, as they
were, to recover prepaid freight upon a shipment of articles
of merchandise which were not carried to destination,
the carriage having been prevented -by action of the Government. Judgment was rendered for libelant and the
case taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The case is here on certificate from that court, induced,
as the court recites, by its decision in the case of International Paper Co. v. The "Gracie D. Chambers," supra,
to review which a certiorari has been granted by this
court.
The facts as certified are these:
"On August 17th, 1917, varnish belonging to libelant
was shipped by it in the port of New York for Gothenburg, Sweden, upon the steamship Bris, consigned to the
Allmanna Svenska Elektriska A. B. Westeras, and the
agents for said ship thereupon delivered to libelant a bill
of lading, of which a copy is annexed hereto, which formed
a contract between libelant and claimant in reference to
said goods. Particular reference is made to Clause 6,
Clause 7 and the next to last clause of the bill of lading.
The libelant paid in advance the freight mentioned in said
bill of lading. At the time of said shipment, shippers.were
required to obtain export licenses from the British GovParnent on cargo of this class, and were also required by
the United States Statute to obtain export licenses from
the United States Govermnent in connection with such
articles as the President should, by ip,,iaiiiuion, designate. At the time that saiu shipiiiein was iaade the President had designatea ecrtaiii artic s as to which licenses

STANDARD VARNISH WORKS v. THE "BRIS."
392.

397

Opinion of the Court.

must be thus procured when destined for Gothenburg,
Sweden, but varnish was not included among them. At
the time of shipment, the libelant presented a license which
it had procured from the British Government. On August 27th, 1917, the President made a further proclamation, effective August 30th, 1917, whereby shippers of
varnish and all other cargo destined for Gothenburg,
Sweden, were required to procure licenses before the same
could be exported. The libelant thereupon made application for such a license, and the claimant held its vessel in
port until October 8th, to see if such licenses could be procured, before beginning the discharge of the cargo. Unless shipments were accompanied by the aforesaid licenses
they were not allowed by the men-of-war belonging to
the Allies to proceed to destination. On or about October
8th the United States, acting through the Exports Administrative Board, refused the application for a license
to transport the goods mentioned in the libel, and other
cargo destined for Gothenburg, and claimant thereupon
began to unload the cargo of the Bris and concluded the
discharge on October 22d, 1917. The claimant continued
ready and willing to carry said cargo forward if a license
therefor were obtained by libelant. The libelant took
redelivery of the cargo at the port of shipment and made a
demand upon the claimant that the claimant should return
the freight paid, which demand was refused. The question
aforesaid is as follows:
"1. Did the bill of lading contract justify the carrier,
under the facts stated, ia refusing to refund the prepaid
freight?"
Clause 6 of the bill of lading is as follows: "
Prepaid freight is to be considered as earned on shipment
of the goods and is to be retained by the vessel's owners,
vessel or car'go lost or not lost, or if there be a forced interrurtion or abandonment ol the voyage at a port of distress or elsewhere; . . ." The material parts of clause

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

7 are as follows: "Also, in case the ship shall be prevented
from reaching her destination by . . . war
or the hostile act of any power," the master may wait until
the impeding obstacle be removed "or discharge the goods
into any depot or at any convenient port or bring her
cargo back to port of shipment where the ship's responsibility shall cease
Clause 2 should be considered. It exempts the carrier
from loss by certain causes or "by arrest and restraint
of princes, rulers or people."
We think the case is within the principle of the decision
of the cases submitted with it. In this case, however, it
is urged that the clause relied on by the ship to justify
the retention of the advance of freight does not contain
the word "irrevocable" and that upon that word stress
was put by the Circuit Court of Appeals and presumably
by this court. The word undoubtedly is one of intensity
but its absence does not remove the meaning or intention
of its associates. Their declaration is that "prepaid
freight is to be considered as earned on shipment of the
goods and is to be retained by the vessel's owners, vessel
or cargo lost or not lost." The declaration is clear, and,
in anxiety of purpose, uses some tautology. The words
"prepaid freight is to be considered as earned" declare
a completed right and carried the power of retention without the expression of the latter. And the expression of the
right 4nd the power cannot be put aside. Counsel, however, would make them purposeless and would consider
the bill of lading as if they were not contained in it, and
urges that the only effect of the refusal of clearance to the
ship was the "commercial frustration of the adventure"
working a dissolution of the contract, absolving from performance but requiring the restitution of the payments
that were made as the consideratipn ot performance.
We are not insensible to the appealing force of the contentions nor to the strength of the argument advanced

FINK v. COUNTY COMMISSIONERS.
392.

Counsel for Plaintiffs in Error.

to support them, but the contract determines against
them and the reasons for assigning to it that effect we
have given in our opinions in the other cases.
We, therefore, answer the questions certified in the affirmative.
So ordered.

FINK ET AL., TRUSTEES &c., v. BOARD OF
COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF MUSKOGEE
COUNTY, OKLAHOMA, ET AL.
ERROR

TO

THE

SUPREME

COURT

OF

THE

STATE

OF

OKLAHOMA.

No. 43.

Argued December 13, 16, 1918.-Decided January 13, 1919.

Through the Act of May 27, 1908, c. 199, 35 Stat. 312, restrictions on
alienation were removed from a Creek Indian allotment which,
under the Creek Supplemental Agreement of June 30, 1902, c. 1323,
§ 16, 32 Stat. 500, and the Oklahoma Enabling Act and Constitution, was exempt from taxation. The Act of 1908 provides "that
all land from which restrictions have been or shall be removed shall
be subject to taxation," etc. Upon conveyance by the allottee,
held, that the tract was subject to state taxation in the hands of the
grantees, for by taking their title under the Act of 1908 they took
subject to its conditions and policy. P. 402.
The Act of May 27, 1908, .supra, granting the right of alienation, invades no right of the Indian in making the exercise of that right a
surrender of the exemption from taxation. P. 404.
Quwre as to how far a grantee of an Indian may avail himself of the
Indian's right to assert the unconstitutionality of an act of Congress.
P. 405.
affirmed.
59 Oklahoma, -,

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Charles B. Rogers, with whom Mr. W. 0. Cromwell
and Mr. George W. .Buckner were on the briefs, for plaintiffs in error.

