MAcMATH v. UNITED STATES.
139.

•151

Syllabus.

per Edgar F. Luckenbach, Trustee;" but it was admitted
by all the petitioners that Edgar F. Luckenbach, Trustee,
in so signing the charter party, acted for all the owners and
intended to bind all. The decree in the District Court
declares that libelant was entitled to recovery "from the
respondents Edgar F. Luckenbach et al., her owners."
The decree in the Circuit Court of Appeals adjudged
(presumably through inadvertence) that the payment
should be made by "the Estate of Luckenbach." The
right to recover against all the owners, for the full amount,
in case any of them was so liable, was not controverted.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals should be modified so as to render all the owners liable. Compare Pendleton v. Renner Line, 246 U. S. 353. As so modified, the decree is

Affirmed.

MAcMATH, ADMINISTRATRIX OF MAcMATH,
UNITED STATES.

,.

APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 79.

Argued November 22, 1918.-Decided December 9, 1918.

Revised Statutes, § 2621, authorizes Collectors to employ, with the
approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, weighers at the-several
ports, and does not prescribe their number; the Act of July 26, 1866,
c. 269, § 3, 14 Stat. 289, fixes their salaries at $2,500; Rev. Statg.,
§ 2634,-authorizes the Secretary to fix the number and compensation
of clerks to be employed by any Collector. M received succesaive
appointments as clerk "to act as acting U. S. weighei ," at compensations less than $2,500 per annum, and took oath as such. Held,
that the fact that he was assigned, and performed, the dvties of
weigher did not pcl(him in that office and entitle him. to its salary.
51 Ct. Cims. 356, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

Mr. William E. Russell, with whom Mr. Seward G.

Spoor, Mr. Louis T. Michener and Mr. Perry G.Michener
were on the briefs, for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney GeneralThompson, for the United
States, submitted.'
MR.

JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

court.
When an office with a fixed salary has been created by
statute, and a person duly appointed to it has qualified
and entered upon the discharge of his duties, he is entitled,
during his incumbency, to be paid the salary prescribed
by statute; and effect will not be given to aDy attempt
to deprive him of the right thereto, whether it be by unauthorized agreement, by condition, or otherwise. United
States v. Andrews, 240 U. S. 90; Glavey v. United States,
182 U. S. 595.
Section :3 of the Act of July 26, 1866, c. 269, 14 Stat.
289, provides, that weighers at the port of New York
shall receive an annual salary of $2,500. Section 2621
of the Revised Statutes authorizes collectors to employ,
with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury,
weighers at the several ports; and it does not prescribe
their number. Section 2634 authorizes the Secretary of
the Treasury to fix the number and compensation of
clerks to be employed by any collector. The statutes
-appear to have made no specific provision for the appointment of assistant or acting United StAtes weighers. On
May 12, 1909, plaintiff's intestate (who had been ap,
pointed on August 1, 1896, "assistant weigher of customs"
at a salary, "ihen. employed,'" of $3 per diem and had
later received a like appointment at $4 per diem) was
appoifited by the collector "clerk, class 3, new office, to
act as acting U. S. weigher "'with'compensation at the rate-

MAcMATH v. UNITED STATES.
151.

Opinion of the Court.

of $1,600 per annum. On August 18, 1911, he received
a like appointment as clerk, class 4, at the rate of $1,800
per annum. He continued to perform the duties assigned
and was paid the salaiy named until his death, October 8,'
1913. In February, 1915, his administratrix filed with
the Auditor of the Treasury a claim for salary of her
intestate as "United States weigher of customs" at the
rate of $2,500 per annum, from May 12, 1909, to and including October 7, 1913. Upon disallowance of the claim
she brought this suit in the Court of Claims for the
amount, namely, $11,013.89. The court found for the
defendant and entered judgment dismissing the petition.
The case comes here on appeal.
There is a fundamental objection to the allowance of
the claim or any part thereof. MacMath was never
appointed weigher and never held office as such. His only
appointment was that of clerk; his oath of office being
as "clerk and acting U. S. weigher, class 3." The Secretary of the Treasury clearly had the right to create
and the collector to make appointment to the position
of clerk and to designate duties of the appointee. The
fact that the incumbent performed also some or all the
duties of a weigher does not operate to promote him
automatically to the s:ttulory office of weigher. And the
fact that his appointment'as clerk in 1909 was made as a
part of a reorganization of the service, whereby, four of
the five positions of United States weigher were abolished,
is immaterial; except as showing even rrore clearly that
it was the intention not to appoint him weigher. No contention is, or cotild successfully be, made that the weighing
should be paid for as an extra service, even if it was not a
duty attaching to his position as clerk. See United States
v. Garlinger, 169 U. S. 316.
We have, therefore, no occasion to consider whether.
effect should be given to the agreement by the intestate
not to make claim to compensation as acting weigher, or

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

248 U.S.

to his acceptance of. the lower compensation without
protest during the entire term of his service; nor need we
consider the effect, ofl§2 of the Act of July 31, 1894, c.
174, 28 Stat. 162, 205,. which provides that "no person
'who holds an office the salary or annual compensation
attached to which amounts to'the sum of two thousand
five hundred dollars shall be appointed to or hold any
other office to 'which compensation is attached unless
specially heretofore or hereafter spocially authorized
thereto by law."
The judgment of the Court of Claims is
A ffirmed.

PETRIE ET AL. v. NAMPA AND MERIDIAN,
IRRIGATION DISTRICT.
ERROR TO;THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IDAHO.
No..47.

Argued November 19, 1918.-Decided December 9, 1918.

Upon an appiication to an- idaha c9urt fa- approval of a prposed
contract for sale of water rights by the United States to an Irrigation District, and for sharing between thenri certain drainage expenses, landowners objected that the contract exceeded the powers
of. the United States, the Secretary of the Interior, and the District,
that its execution vould entail assessments on their land within the
District otherwise supplied with sufficient water for irrigation, and
that for this reason they would.be deprived of property without
due process of law, or compensation, in violation of the Fourteenth

Amendment. Held, that a federal question was presented. P. 157.
But, since the Idaho Supreme Court, while holding that the contract

would be valid and that its confirmation would not invade the
landowners' constitutional rights as claimed, also decided that
under the stite law the objection was premature for the reason that
such confirmation would not impose any burden upon their lands
until assessments should be made' upon them in subsequent pro-

