INT. PAPER CO. r. THE "GRACIE 1). CHAMBERS." 387
377.

Argument for Petitioner.

from liability "for any loss, damage, delay or default,
. by arrest or restraint of governments, princes,
rulers, or peoples;
The questions certified are therefore answered in the
.

affirmative.
So ordered.

INTERNATIONAL PAPER COMPANY v. THE
SCHOONER "GRACIE
D. CHAMBERS," &c.,
PAYNE, CLAIMANT.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 479. Argued December 12, 13, 1918.-Decided January 13, 1919.
The bill of lading contained th3 provisions "Restraints of princes and
rulers excepted," "Freight for the said goods to be prepaid iju full
without discount, retained and irrevocably ship and/or cargo lost
or not lost." Sailing was delayed indefinitely by the Government's
refusal to clear sailing vessels destined for the war zone, which went
into effect after the shipment commenced and before the freight was
prepaid against delivery of the bill of lading. Held, that the carrier
was relieved of the (bty to transport the goods and need not refund
the prepaid freight. Allanwilde Transport Corp. v. Vacuum Oil
Co., ante, 377. P. 391.
253 Fed. Rep. 182, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion,
Mr. William C. Cannon, with whom Mr. R. L. von
Bernuth was on the brief, for petitioner:
Freight is not earned until the vessel "breaks ground"
or starts upon her voyage. The Tornado, 108 U. S. 342;
Curling v. Long, 1 Bos. & P. 634. A change of berth
pending completion of necessary preliminaries to sailing
is not a commencement of the voyage. Gilchrist Transp.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Petitioner.

248 U. S.

Co. v. Boston Ins. Co., 223 Fed. Rep. 716; Wooa v. Hubbara,
62 Fed. Rep. 753. Where the voyage has been begun but
the cargo has not been delivered, the rule in this country
is that, in the absence of an express stipulation, prepaid
freight may be recovered. It became the practice to
insert in both American and English bills of lading ciauses
providing that prepaid freight might be retained "ship
lost or not lost," for the purpose of making the legal eflect
of such a stipulation conform with the English decisions.
But the English cases hold that even where there is such
a stipulation the recovery depends upon whether or not
the voyage had commenced and the freight had begun to
be earned. Ex parte Nyholm; Re Child, 29 L. T. 634;
Weir & Co. v. Girvin, [1900] 1 Q. B. D. 45; Great Indian
Ry. Co. v. Turnbull, 53 L. T. 325; Allison v. Bristol Marine
Ins. Co., 1 App. Cas. 209; Scrutton, Charter Parties, 8th
ed., Art. 137. And, in the absence of a controlling agreement, prepaid freight is treated in the same manner as
}Iight payable. Allison v. Bristol Marine Ins. Co.,
supra. These cases do not construe the phrase "ship
lost or not lost" to extend the already existing doctrine
or to bar recovery of prepaid freight in any event; they
confine the rule to losses caused by risks of the voyage,
and hold that where freight had not commenced to be
earned at the time it became due and payable it can be
recovered back. Coker & Co. v. Limerick S. S. Co.,
34 T. L. Rep. 18; 118 L. T. 726, does not overrule them,
and, if it did, should not be followed. The Kimball,
3 Wall. 37, 45. The only issue there litigated was, what
portion of the charter hire became payable where part of
the cargo had been loaded, and as to which some, but not
all, of the bills of lading had been signed.
Under our law, the parties may stipulate to make prepaid freight an unconditional payment in consideration
of loading the goods on board. Nat-onal Steam Nay. Co.
v. InternationalPaper Co., 241 1'eu. R~ep. 861, 863; The'

INT. PAPER CO. t. THE "GRACIE D. CHAMBERS." 389
387.

Argument for Petitioner.

Queensmore, 53 Fed. Rep. 1022. In both of these cases,
however, the vessel had actually sailed and the earning of
the freight had begun. The "ship lost or not lost" clause
became operative. The presumption is that freight is
payable only on so much of a cargo as is delivered, and to
take the case out of the general rule language in the bill
of lading which is unmistakable in its effect must be
shown. Christie v. Davis Coal & Coke Co., 95 Fed. Rep.
837. The burden is on the shipowners to show that the
language employed was intended to have the effect claimed
by them. With the exception of the Coker Case, no decision can be found, even in England, in which prepaid
freight has been held not to be recoverable because of an
express stipulation to that effect, where the ship has not
actually started on her voyage. The bill of lading in the
case at bar evinces no intention that the freight was to
be paid as a consideration for receiving the goods on
board. The courts have construed similar clauses as not
preventing a recovery of prepaid freight. Ocean S. S,. Co.
v. U. S. Steel Products Co., 239 Fed. Rep. 823; The Allanwilde, 247 Fed. Rep. 236, 238.
The restraint ce princes clause only exempts the ship
from liability for failure to carry and does not relate to
freight moneys. Jackson v. Union Marine Ins. Co.,
L. R. 10 C. P. 125, 145; Kelly v. Johnson, 3 Wash. C. C.
45. Furthermore, there was a frustration of the enterprise
before the freight was paid or payable. The action of the
Government was such an interference a3 to excuse performance and justify abandonment. of the contract.
Ge'pel v. Smith, L. R. 7 Q. B. 404; The Kronprinzessin
Cecilie, 244 U. S. 12; The Styria, 186 U. S. 12; Admiral
Shipping Co. v. Weidner, Hopkins & Co., 115 L. T. 814,
817, 819, 822; Countess of Warwick S. S. Co. v. Nickel
Societe Anonyme, [1918] 1 K. B. 372; Horlock v. Beal,
[19161 1 A. C. 486; Atlantic Fruit Co.,v. Solari, 238 Fed.
Rep. 217; Jackson v. Union Marine Ins. Co., supra;

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

Embiricos v. Syaney, Reid & Co., 119141 3 K. B. 45. The
freight moneys had not become due when the embargo
was put into effect, and the petitioner was absolved from
the obligation to pay them on the shipment. The consideration for the subsequent payment totally failed, and
petitioner is entitled to the return of such moneys. Card
v. Hine, 39 Fed. Rep. 818.
The signed bill of lading was delivered and the
freight
paid five days after the government order had been put
into effect. The contract was wholly executory, and its
performance having been prohibited by law, moneys
paid on account thereof cannot be retained. Spring Co.
v. Knowlton, 103 U. S. 49; Taylor v. Bowers, 1 Q. B. D.
291, 300; Pullman's Car Co. v. Transportation Co., 171
U. S. 138, 151; Harrimanv. Northern Securities Co., 197
U. S. 244, 296; Cleveland, C. C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Hirsch,
204 Fed. Rep. 849.
Mr. Robinson Leech, with whom Mr. Charles Burlingham was on the brief, for respondent.
MR.JUsTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the

court.
Libel in admiralty on the schooner "Gracie D. Chambers," her tackle, etc., to recover the sum of $5,845, prepaid freight on a cargo of paper loaded on the schooner for
shipment from New York to Bordeaux, France, by the
International Paper Company. Judgment went for libelant in the District Court. It was reversed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals by a divided court. To this action this
writ is directed.
The facts as found by the Circuit Court of Appeals are
as follows:
"September 14, 1917, the schooner Gracie D. Chambers
began to load a general cargo -in the Port of New York

INT. PAPER CO. v. THE " GRACIE D. CHAMBERS." 391
387.

Opinion of the Court.

to be delivered at Bordeaux. Between September 27 and
29 the libelant Paper Company shipped 120 tons of print
paper.
"September 28 at 4:25 p. m. the Treasury Department
at Washington telegraphed the Collector at the Port of
New York to withhold clearance of all sailing vessels, any
part of whose voyages would bring them within the
danger zone. There was no official publication of this
embargo, but it was put into effect beginning September
29 by the refusal of clearance to such vessels as they applied for them. Both the shippers and the shipowners had
heard rumors of the embargo as early as October 1.
"October 3 the schooner moved out to an anchorage
at the Red Hook Flats to save wharfage charges and to
await clearance.
"October 4 the freight was paid against delivery of the
bill of lading.
"October 5 the master applied to the Collector for
clearance, which was refused. He then applied to, the
authorities at Washington to except this schooner from
.the embargo on the ground that it had begun to load before the order was made. Refusal to allow an exception
in her favor was not definitely and finally made until
October 10. Subsequently the cargo was discharged and
the owners refused to return the freight paid.
"The bill of lading contained the following provisions:
"'Restraints of Princes and Rulers excepted.'
"'Freight for the said goods to be prepaid in full without discount retained and irrovocably ship and/or cargo
lost or not lost.'"
The case was submitted with Nos. 449 and 450 [Allariwilde Transport Corporation v. Vacuum Oil Co., ante, 377],
and its primary question is, as there, the sufficiency of the
clauses in the bill of lading as a defense. In those cases
we decided that the bill of lading expressed the contract
of the parties and hence determined their rights and liabil-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

248 U. S.

ities. And it is the safer reliance, the accommodation
of all the circumstances that induced it. It was for the
parties to consider them, and to accept their estimate is
not to do injustice but accord to each the due of the law
determined by their own judgment and convention, which
represented, we may suppose, what there was of advantage
or disadvantage as well in the rates as in the risks.
It is asserted, however, that the vessel in this case did
not break ground and that this fact distinguishes the case
from Nos. 449 and 450. The fact does not deflect the principle of those cases. It was not made to depend upon thc
fact of breaking ground, but upon the bills of lading which
provided for the payment of freight upon the shipment
of the goods and the right to retain it though the goods
were not carried, their carriage being prevented by causes
beyond the control of the carrier.
Therefore, upon the authority of those cases, the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals in this case is
Affirmed.

STANDARD VARNISH WORKS v. STEAMSHIP
"BRIS,"
REDERIAKTIEBOLAGET
BORE,
CLAIMANT.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 745.

Argued December 13, 1918.-Decided January 13, 1919.

The bill of lading provided that prepaid freight should be considered
earned on shipment of the goods and be retained by the vesselowners, "vessel or cargo lost or not lost, or if there be a forced interruption or abandonment of the voyage at a port of distress or
elsewhere;" that in case the ship should he prevented from reachinq
destination by war or the hostile act of any power, the master might

