FULLINWIDER v. SOUTHERN PAC. R. R. CO. .409
Opinion of the Court.

FULLINWIDER v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY OF CALIFORNIA ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 121.

Submitted December 20, 1918.-Decided January 13, 1919.

The Act of March 3, 1871, c. 122, 16 Stat. 573, granted public lands to
the Texas Pacific Railroad, conditioned that .those not sold or disposed of within three years from the completion of the road should
b e subject to settlement and preemption at a maximum price, and
other public lands to the Southern Pacific Railroad, "with the same
rights, grants, and privileges, and subject to the same limitations,
restrictions, and conditions as were granted to said Southern Pacific
Railroad Company of California by the Act of July 27,1866.'" Held,
that the condition of the Texas Pacific grant was inapplicable to
the grant made by the same act to the Southern Pacific.
229 Fed. Rep. 717, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Fred Beall for appellant.
also on the brief.

Mr. J. Mack Love was

Mr. Charles R. Lewers and Mr. Wm.F. Herrin for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming a decree of the District Court in and for the
Southern District of California dismissing upon demurrer
a bill brought by appellant (we shall refer to him as coinplainant) against the railroad company to compel the

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

company to convey to him a certain one-half section of
land within the limits of the congressional grant to the
company made by the Act of March 3, 1871, c. 122, 16
Stat. 573.
The bill alleged the incorporation of the company and
that of various corporations impleaded with it, and the
following facts: March 3, 1871, Congress made a grant to
the Texas Pacific Railroad Company of certain sections
of the public lands and provided that the lands which
should not be sold or otherwise disposed of within three
years after the completion of the entire road should be
subject to settlement and preemption like other lands at a
price to be fixed by and paid to the company at not exceeding an average of $2.50 per acre for all of the lands
granted.
Section 23 of the act-made a further grant of certain
sections of the public lands in the State of California to
the Southern Pacific Railroad and contained the provision
that the company should construct a line of railroad from
and to. certain named points, "with the same rights,
grants, and privileges, and subject to the same limitations,
restrictions, and conditions as were granted to said Southern Pacific Railroad Company of California by the Act
of July 27, 1866." [c. 278, 14 Stat. 292.1
The road was completed between the designated points
more than ten years prior to the 1st of December, 1913.
Among the lands which have not been sold or disposed
of that are within the limits of the grant are those described in the bill, and pn October 29, 1913, complainant
(appellant) tendered the company $800 and demanded
of it and the other defendants (appellees) a conveyance
of the land, which demand was refused, to the injury and
damage of complainant. The land is of the value of $3,000
and compLainant has the qualifications entitling him to
purchase the land.
Complainant offers to pay the $800 in court and alleges

FULLINWIDER v. SOUTHERN PAC. R. I. CO.

409.

411

Opinion of the Court.

that the suit was brought, among other things, for the purpose of having the court interpret and construe the acts
of Congress referred to. The other defendants are alleged
to have an interest in the land and a construction of the
acts of Congress is prayed and of all other acts that have
any relation to them; that defendants be decreed to convey to complainant the land and that he have general
relief.
Sections 9 and 23 of the Act of March 3, 1871, are
directly involved; the other sections of the act and other
acts only as illustrating §§ 9 and 23.
By § 9 a land grant is made to the Texas Pacific Railroad of public land in California in the terms and qualifications which are quite familiar and contains the provision set out in the bill which subjects the land unsold
within three years after the completion of the road to
settlement and preemption at a price not exceeding an
average of $2.50 an acre.
By § 23 the Southern Pacific Railroad Company of
California was authorized to construct a line of railroad
from a point at or near Tehachapa Pass, by way of Los
Angeles, to the Texas Pacific Railroad at or near the
Colorado River, "with the same rights, grants, and
privileges, and subject to the same limitations, restrictions,
and conditions as were granted" to the Southern Pacific
Railroad Company by the Act of July 27, 1866, with reservations of rights to other railroad companies.
Based on this provision complainant puts three questions as involved in the case, but says it is 'nly necessary
for this court to answer the following one: "Was this

grant of lands to the Southern Pacific Railroad Company
under the Act of March 3, 1871, made subject to the rights,
grants and privileges of said act, or under the rights,
grants and privileges of the Act of July 27, 1866, and subject only to its terms?" Complainant's answer to the
question is that the grant to the Southern Pacific was

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

made under the Act of 1871 and not under the Act of
1866, and deduces from that that the provision in § 9
requiring under certain circumstances a sale to predmptors is applicable to the Southern Pacific.
Complainant's argument in support of the answer does
not submit easily to succinct statement. Its postulate
is that the policy of Congress in regard to the public
lands came to have its chief solicitude in the disposition
of them to actual settlers at reasonable prices and that
this policy was not overlooked even in the grants to railroads. And the policy dictated, it is said, the provision of
§ 9 of the grants to the Texas Pacific Railroad Company,
and determines the insertion of a like provision in § 23
whici concerns the grant to the Southern Pacific Company, though it is not inserted therein. We may grant, if a
policy exists, that it may be used to resolve the uncertainty of a law, but it cannot be a substitute for a law.
However, we do not find the uncertainty in §§ 9 or 23 that
complainant does, whether jointly or separately considered. Section 23 is complete in itself. The restrictions
upon the grant it made that were deemed appropriate
were expressed, and their expression excludes any other by
a well known rule of construction.
Let us repeat: the Southern Pacific Company is authorized to construct a line of railroad in California with
the same rights, grants, and privileges, and subject to the
same linitations, restrictions, and conditions as were
granted to the company by the Act of July 27, 1866. And
there could not have been oversight, nor the inadvertence of expressing one thing when another was meant.
Yet this is practically the contention of complainant.
Not the conditions of the Act of 1866 are imposed on the
grant, but the conditions imposed by § 9, conditions upon
R different grant and a different company, is the contention, though complainant admits that "there is no question but that the language of Section 23 segregated from

CORDOVA v. GRANT.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

409.

the act, of which it is a part, and construed alone, supports the contention of the appellees." The language
gains, we think, not loses in strength from its location.
It makes evident that there was a conscious contrast
of provision between the grants and the companies.
Decree affirmed.

CORDOVA v. GRANT, EXECUTOR OF COTTON.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 104.

Submitted December 18, 1918.-Decided January 13, 1919.

Plaintiff claimed, under the laws of Texas, land lying between the
present and former beds of the Rio Grande. Defendant,. claiming
under Mexican grants, set up that, as plaintiff's title dependmd Mn
whether the international boundary had shifted with the river, and
as our government, though claiming and exercising de facto jurisdiction over the locus, conceded the true boundary to be unsettled,
and by its treaties and acts with Mexico had agreed upon a comiission with exclusive jurisdiction to settle it, the courts were thereby
deprived of jurisdiction, atid the case should be dismissed or the trial
stayed until the boundary should be established. Our government
had rejected the action of a commission which sat under the last of
the treaties referred to, and haaI waived objection, based on comity,
to the litigation. Held, that the District Court bad jurisdiction and
might properly proceed with the case, and that its holding to that
effect did not involve the validity or construction of a treaty. P. 419.
Writ of error dismissed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Frank G. Morris for plaintiff in error:
It is manifest from the whole course of the pleadings and
the evidence and the requested charges refused, and the

