CAVANAUGH v. LOONEY.
450.

Counsel for Appellants.

bankrupt's wife, as the result of her having been named
as the beneficiary, a vested arid indefeasible interest in
policies by the terms of which the beneficiaries could be
changed by the bankrupt at any time." And we approve
its conclusion.
Petitioner has not complained here of the action below
concerning a third policy, issued by the New York Life
Insurance Company.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

CAVANAUGH ET AL. v. LOONEY, ATTORNEY
GENERAL OF THE STATE OF TEXAS, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 107.

Argued December 19, 1918.-Decided January 13, 1919.

The jurisdiction of the federal courts to enjoin the execution of a state

law upon the ground of unconstitutionality should be exercised only
in clear cases and where intervention is essential to protect rights

effectually against injuries otherwise irremediable. P. 456.
Appellants sought to enjoin condemnation proceedings under a Texas
act, alleging it unconstitutional and that the filing of the petition
would cause them irreparable damage by impounding their land,
clouding the title and preventing sale pending the proceeding. Held,
properly refused, since the apprehension of irreparable loss appeared
fanciful and all objections against the act could be raised in the condemnation proceedings. Id.
Affirmed.
THE

case is Stated in the opinion.

Mr. Joseph Manson McCormick, with whom Mr.
Francis Marion Etheridge was on the brief, for appellants.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

Mr. B. F. Looney, Attorney General of the State of
Texas, and Mr. C. M. Cureton, Assistant Attorney General
of the State of Texas, for appellees, submitted.
MR.JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
court.
The University of Texas is a state institution under immediate control of officers known as Regents, appointed
by the Governor, with its principal educational departments in Travis and Galveston counties. An act of the
legislature, approved August 30, 1911 (S. B. No. 20, c. 6,
General Laws, Texas), undertook to authorize the Regents
to purchase or condemn through proceedings in the district courts such lands within those counties as they might
deem expedient for extension of campus or other university purposes. Appellants have long owned and used as a
residence homestead twenty-six acres in Travis County
desirable as an addition to the university grounds. Having failed in their efforts to purchase, the Regents were
about to meet and ask the Attorney General to institute
proceedings to condemn this entire tract. Thereupon
appellants instituted this proceeding against them and
the Attorney General in the United States District Court
seeking to restrain their threatened action "on the ground
[among others] that said law conflicts with the Constitution of the United States, in that the defendants are
thereby pretendedly authorized to take plaintiffs? property without due process of law, and plaintiffs axe thereby
deprived of the equal protection of the laws." They alleged invalidity of the act because in conflict with both
state and Federal Constitutions and averred "that unless
restrained by a writ from this Honorable Court, the said
defendants constituting the Board of Regents of the University of Texas will, at their next meeting aforesaid,
request the Attorney General to file a petition in the Dis-

CAVANAUGH v. LOONEY.
453.

Opinion of the Court.

trict Court of Travis County for the condemnation of
their property or a part thereof under said pretended Act,
and that the said Attorney General, unless so restrained,
will comply with said request of the Board of Regents,
acting under said purported Act, and that the filing of
such petition will cause irreparable loss and damage to
your petitioners by impounding their property in court
pending the disposition of said proceeding and will cloud
the title thereto and prevent the vending of same or any
part thereof."
The challenged act provides: That if the Regents
cannot agree with the owners for purchase they shall
request the Attorn% General to file petition in the district court of the county, describing the land, stating
purpose for which. desired, and praying that its value
be ascertained and decree be entered vesting title thereto
in the State. That -upon filing such petition the owner
shall .be cited as in other civil causes; that at the
first term thereafter the cause shall be tried by a Jury
upon a single issue as to the value of the land and the decision of such jury shall be final-provided there shall be a
right of appeal as in other civil cases. That when the
value has been ascertained and the court satisfied therewith it shall enter a decree vesting title but not until such
amount together with all reasonable costs and expenses
including reasonable attorney's fees shall be paid to the
owner or into court for his benefit.
It is alleged that the Act of 1911 especially offends the
constitution of Texas because a local law passed without
the required notice; and that it is bad under both federal
and state constitutions because (1) it delegates to the
Board of Regents power to determine what property is
reasonably necessary for the purposes mentioned and forbids inquiry concerning this by the court, (2) it forbids
inquiry into the damages to the remainder of a tract
where a part only is taken, and (3) it permits the State

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

to acquire fee simple title to property which thereafter
may be sold. It is further alleged that appellants' property is so situated that to take a part would necessarily
cause serious damage to the remainder.
A special court assembled as provided by ยง 266, Judicial
Code, denied application for preliminary injunction without opinion and allowed this direct appeal.
It is now settled doctrine "that individuals, who, as
officers of the State, are clothed with some duty in regard
to the enforcement of the laws of the State, and who
threaten and are about to commence proceedings, either
of a civil or criminal nature, to enforce against parties
affected an unconstitutional act, violating the Federal
Constitution, may be enjoined by a Federal court of
equity from such action." Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123,
155, 156; Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Andrews, 216
U. S. 165, 166, 167; Home Telephone & Telegraph Co. v.
Los Angeles, 227 U. S. 278, 293; Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S.
33, 37; Greene v. Louisville & Interurban R. R. Co., 244
U. S. 499, 506. But no such injunction "ought to be
granted unless in a case reasonably free from doubt,"
and when necessary to prevent great and irreparable injury. Ex pare Young, supra, 166. The jurisdiction should
be exercised only where intervention is essential in order
effectually to protect property rights against injuries
otherwise irremediable.
When considered in connection with established rules
of law relating to the power of eminent domain, complainants' allegation of threatened "irreparable loss and damage" appears fanciful. The detailed circumstances negative such view and rather tend to support the contrary
one. Nothing indicates that any objections to the validity
of the statute could not be presented in an orderly way
before the state court where defendants intended to institute condemnation proceedings; and if by any chance
the state courts should finally deny a federal right the

COON v. KENNEDY.
453.

Opinion of the Court.

appropriate and adequate remedy by review here is obvious. Exercising a wise discretion we think the court
below properly denied an injunction. Upon the record
it was not called upon to inquire narrowly into the disputable points urged against the statute. No more are
we.

The judgment of the court below is

Affirmed.

COON v. KENNEDY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF NEW JERSEY.
No. 398.

Argued December 11, 1918.-Decided January 13, 1919.

Under Jud. Code, ยง 237, as amended September 6, 1916, a writ of-error
does not lie to a judgment of a state court holding the state Workmen's Compensation Law inapplicable to a case of personal injuries
governed by the maritime law and holding the Act of October 6,
1917, which changes the rule in that regard, inapplicable retrospectively.
Writ of error to review 91 N. J. L. 598, dismissed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. James D. Carpenter, Jr., for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Isidor Kalisch for defendant in error.
Memorandum opinion by MR. JusTcE MCREYNOLDS.
This writ of error runs to a judgment of the Court of
Errors and Appeals of New Jersey filed March 11, 1918,
91 N. J. L. 598, denying relief to Rebecca Coon who

