ERIE R. R. CO. v. HAMILTON.
365.

369

Opinion of the Court.

state laws for the inspection and weighing of grain, but to
co6perate with state officials charged with the enforcement
of such state laws. The Missouri act is not superseded
by or in conflict with the federal legislation.

The judgment of the Supreme Court of Missouri is
therefre
Affirmed.

ERIE RAILROAD COMPANY v. HAMILTON,
COUNTY TREASURER OF THE COUNTY OF
ROCKLAND, AS PUBLIC ADMINISTRATOR OF
MISTSCHOOK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 112.

Argued December 19, 1918.-Decided January 7, 1919.

Under ยง 237 of the Judicial Code, as amended September 6, 1916, .a
judgment of a state court based on a construction, but not denying
the validity, of a treaty, is not reviewable by writ of error from this
court.
Writ of error to review 169 App. Div. 936; 219 N. Y. 343, dismissed.

THE ease is stated in the opinion.
Mr. William C. Cannon, with whom Mr. Frederic B.
Jenninqgs and Mr. Harold W. Bissell were on the briefs,
for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Herbert C. Smyth, with whom Mr. Frederic C. Scofield, Mr. Charles Angulo and Mr. Charles C. Sanders

were on the briefs, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE

delivered the opinion of the court.

The Erie Railroad Company was sued in the State of
New York by the defendant in error to recover damages

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

for the claimed negligent causing of the death of Stephen
Mistschook, who was a, subject of the Emperor of Russia
and who left surviving him a wife and three children resident in Russia.
After denying negligence and liability, the company
averred that it had settled the claim with the Russian
Consul resident at New York, who, acting under authority
of the treaties between the United States and the Emperor
of Russia, and in behalf of the widow and next of kin of
the deceased, had executed in due form of law and, for
the consideration of $400, had delivered a release of all
claiins and demands arising from the death complained of.
The claim at the trial was not, and it is not now, that
te Russian Treaty of 1832 (8 Stat. 444, 448, Art. VIII,)
in'terms gave the consul the power to make the settlement
relied upon, but that under the treaty of the United
States with Spain, invoked through the "favored nation"
paragraph of the Russian treaty, he had power to make it.
The trial court held that the Russian consul had no authority to make the settlement pleaded or to give a valid
release, and the judgment recovered by the plaintiff (the
defendant in error), affirmed by the proper Appellate
Division of the Supreme Court and by the Court of Appeals, is argued as if properly before us for review on writ
of error.
Since the judgment which the plaintiff in error seeks to
review was entered on December 12, 1916, the record presents the question whether writ of.error or writ of certiorari
was the appropriate remedy for bringing the case into this
court under ยง 237 of the Judicial Code, as amended by
Act of Congress, approved September 6, 1916 (39 Stat.
726).
From the statement of the case which we have made it is
clear that the railroad company has relied throughout
the litigation upon the validity of the treaty of the United
States with Russia and that it has claimed rights under a

ERIE R. R. CO. v. HAMIII'ON.
369.

Opinion of the Court.

construction of that treaty which were denied by the defendant in error and by the New York courts. What the
proper construction of the treaty is, is the only question
argued in this court.
The only provisions of the Act of September 6, 1916,
applicable to the review of such a case as we have here are
these:
"A final judgment .
.
in the highest court of a
State in which a deqision in the suit could be had, where
is drawn in question the validity of a treaty . . . of
the United States, and the decision is against
their [its] validity . . . may be re-examined and reversed or affirmed in the Supreme Court upon a writ of
error .
"It shall be competent for the Supreme Court, by certiorari or otherwise, to require that there be certified
to it for review and determination . . . any cause
wherein a final judgment or decree has been rendered or
passed by the highest court of a State in which a decision
could be had
.
where any title, right, privilege,
or immunity is claimed under . . . any treaty
and the decision is either in favor of or against
the title, right, privilege, or immunity especially set up
or claimed, by either party, under such . .
treaty
Since, as we have seen, the plaintiff in error has not
assailed the validity of the PIussian treaty but on the contrary has claimed under an asserted construction of it,
which was denied, it is clear that the case cannot come into
this court by writ of error, under the statute quoted. At
most the railroad company asserted a right under the
treaty which was denied to it by the state courts and this
under the plain reading of the statute could give it a right
to review here only by writ of certiorari.
The distinction between assailing the validity of a
treaty or of a statute and relying upon a special construe-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Counsel for Parties.

248 U. S.

tion of either is patent and has been the subject of such
full discussion by this court that it should not now be
considered either doubtful or obscure. Baltimore & Potomac R. R. Co. v. Hopkins, 130 U. S. 210; 'Districtof Columbia v. Gannon, 130 U. S. 227; Louisville & Nashville
R. R. Co. v. Louisville, 166 U. S. 709, 715; United States
v. Lynch, 137 U. S. 280, 285; South Carolinav. Seymour,
153 U. S. 353, 358; United States ex rel. Taylor v. Taft,
203 U. S. 461, 464; Stadelman v. Miner, 246 U. S. 544.

For want of jurisdiction the writ of error is
Dismissed.

UNION DRY GOODS COMPANY v. GEORGIA PUBLIC SERVICE CORPORATION.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.
No. 87.

Argued Decomber 18, 1918.-Decided January 7, 1919.

A State fixed reasonable rates to be charged by a corporatiqn for supplying electricity to the inhabitants of a city, which superseded lower
rates agreed on in an existing time contract made previously between
the company and a consumer. Held, a legitimate effect of-a valid
exercise of the police power, not impairing the obligation of the contract or depriving the consumer of property without due process.
145 Georgia, 658, affirmed.

THE ease is stated in the opinion.
Mr. R. Douglas Feagin and Mr. Rudolph S. Wimberly,

for plaintiff in error, submitted. Mr Oliver C. Hancock
was also on the brief.
Mr. Roland Ellis, with whom Mr. C. A. Glawson and
Mr. Thomas W. Hardwick were on the brief, for defend-

ant in error.

