OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

248 U. S

fendan- conduct in 1916, the statute from the time of
its enactment has been treated, as stated in the.opinion
of the Alaska court, by the Indians and the public, as
reserving the adjacent fishing grounds as well as the upland, and that in regulations prescribed by the Secretaryof the Interior on February 9, 1915, the Indians are
recognized as the only persons to whom permits may
-be issued for erecting salmon traps at these islands.
These views are decisive of the suit and sustain the
decree below.
Decree affirmed.

UNITED DRUG COMPANY v. THEODORE
RECTANUS COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 27. Argued March 12, 13, 1%18.-Decided December 9, 1918.
A right of trade-mark is not a right in gross; it exists only as appurtenant to an established business and for the protection of the good
will thereof. P. 97.
The adoption of a trade-mark does not project the right of protection
in advance of the extension of the-trade. P. 98.
Where A had a trade-mark in Massachusetts, in connection with a
business there and in neighboring States, and B, afterwards, in good
faith, without notice of A's use or intent to injure or forestall A,
adopted the same mark in Kentucky, where A's business theretofore had not extended, and built up a valuable buisiness under it
there, held, that A, upon entering B's field with notice of the situation, had no equity to enjoin B as an infringer, but was estopped.

P. 103.
226 Fed. Rep. 545, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

UNITED DRUG CO. v. RECTANUS CO.
90.

Argument for Petitioner.

Mr. Laurence A. Janney, with whom Mr. Alexis C.
Angell and Mr. Frederick L. Emery were on the briefs,
for petitioner:
When the first user of a trade-mark, reasonably diligent
in extending the territory of his trade, ultimately engages,
in good faith, in competition with a later user in a common
market under the same mark, the first user is entitled to
an injunction. Whether the first user has been reasonably
diligent is a question of fact in each case. Mrs. Regis
did her utmost to promote her business; did no act which
amounted to an abandonment of any territory; by federal
registration she gave notice of her countrywide claim.
If the first user innocently promotes his business, and in
the course of a natural growth encounters competition
of a later user, he has acted in good faith, particularly
if he has been, until the beginning of competition, ignorant
of the later user's activities, as in the case at bar. The
application of this principle would be nothing more than
a recognition of the prior legal title and the prior equity
of the first as against a mere subsequent equity of the
later user. It would also protect the public against confusion and deception.
In granting the injunction, the District Court accepted
the rules laid down in McLean v. Fleming, 96 U. S. 245;
Menendez v. Holt, 128 U. S. 514; Saxlehner v. Eisner &
Mendelson Co., 179 U. S. 19; Saxlehner v. Siegel-Cooper
Co., 179 U. S. 42; and interpreted those decisions as they
had been interpreted for many years. The Circuit Court
of Appeals attempted to distinguish them on the ground
that the defendants had not acted innocently. But this
court did not treat that fact as controlling; and the decisions would have been the same if each party had proceeded
in ignorance of the other's acts. In the Siegel-Cooper Case,
defendant's innocence was not held to exonerate it from the
charge of infringement nor to relieve it from liability to
injunction. See also Merriam v. Smith , 11 Fed. Rep. 5S8.

OCTOBER TERM,* 1918.
Argumeiit for Petitioner.

248 U. 84

The McLean Case presents all the elements of an
estoppel, and this court so held in denying an accounting.
The complainant knowingly acquiesced in the respondent's use of the mark, and the respondent knowingly
relied thereon and made his investment accordingly.
He had acted innocently and in good faith. Nevertheless,
the court sanctioned complainant's repudiation of acquiescence and did not exonerate the respondent from
the charge of infringement. The decision was no doubt
influenced largely by the obligation to protect the public.
In Menendez v. Holt, the McLeati Case was followed.
The Court of Appeals erred in holding that Rectanus
had a right to assume that he was entitled to continue
using the mark because he remained ignorant of any adverse rights. He has no better excuse than had the defendant in the McLean Case.
If any estoppel could arise from acquiescence, the intentional acquiescence of complainants in the McLean
and Menendez Cases would create estoppels much more
surely than the conduct of Mrs. Regis and her successor
in this case. It is the conduct of the party against whom
the estoppel is urged which determines the existence of
estoppel. The Saxlehner Cases sustain the contention
that innocence on the part of defendants is not a defense;
that their ignorance or knowledge cannot possibly determine the existence of estoppel against the complainant.
See also Merriam v. Smith, 11 Fed. Rep. 588; New York
Grape Sugar Co. v. Buffalo Grape Sugar Co., 18 Fed. Rep.
638; Sawyer Spindle Co. v. Taylor, 56 Fed. Rep. 110;
69 Fed. Rep. 837; Taylor v. Sawyer Spindle Co., 75 Fed.
Rep. 301; Ide v. Trorlicht, 115 Fed. Rep. 137; Fahrney
v. Ruminer, 153 Fed. Rep. 735; Layton Pure Food Co. v.
Church & Dwight Co., 182 Fed. Rep. 35; Paul, TradeMarks, par. 109; Hopkins, Trade-Marks, 2d ed., par. 75,
p. 172.
The 'Well settled rules governing estoppel in general

UNITED DRUG CO. v. RECTANUS CO.
Opinion of the Court.

00.

preclude the possibility of finding that Mrs. Regis and
her successor are estopped in the circumstances at bar.
See Bigelow, Estoppel, 5th ed. The cases of Carroll v.
McIlvaine, 171 Fed. Rep. 125; 183 Fed. Rep. 22; Macmahan Co. v. Denver Co., 113 Fed. Rep. 468;.and Hanover
Milling Co. v. Allen & Wheeler Co., 208 Fed. Rep. 513;
s. c. Hanover Milling Co. v. Metcalf, 240 U. S. 403, referred to by the Circuit Court of Appeals, and Saxlehner
v. Eisner & Mendelson Co., supra, and Kahn v. Gaines,
155 Fed. Rep. 639; 161 id. 495, are distinguishable, and
are not authority for finding an estoppel upon the facts
of this case.
Mr. Clayton B. Blakey for respondent.
MR. JusTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a suit in equity brought September 24, 1912,
in the United States District Court for the Western District of Kentucky, by the present petitioner, a Massachusetts corporation, against the respondent, a Kentucky
corporation, together with certain individual citizens of
the latter State, to restrain infringement of trade-mark
and unfair competition.
The District Court granted an injunction against the
corporation defendant pursuant to the prayer of the bill.
206 Fed. Rep. 570. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed
the decree and remanded the cause with directions to
dismiss the bill. 226 Fed. Rep. 545. An appeal was
allowed by one of the judges of that court, and afterwards
we allowed a writ of certiorari. Pursuant to a stipulation,
the transcript of the record filed for the purposes of the
appeal was treated as a return to the writ. Under § 128,
Judicial Code, as amended by Act of January 28, 1915,
c. 22, § 2, 38 Stat. 803, the appeal must be dismissed, and
the cause will be determined on the writ of certiorari.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

The essential facts are as follows: About the year 1877
Ellen M. Regis, a resident of Haverhill, Massachusetts,
began to compound and distribute in a small way a preparation for medicinal use in cases of dyspepsia- and some
other ailments, to which she applied, as a distinguishing
name the word "Rex"-derived from her surname. The
word was put upon the boxes and packages in which the
medicine was placed upon the market, after the usual
manner of a trade-mark. At first alone, and afterwards in
partnership with her son under the firm name of "E. M.
Regis & Company," she continued the business on a modest scale; in 1898 she recorded the word "Rex" as a trademark under the laws of Massachusetts (Acts 1895, p.
519, c. 462, § 1); in 1900 the firm procured its registration in the United States Patent Office under the Act of
March 3, 1881, c. 138, 21 Stat. 502; in 1904 the Supreme
Court of Massachusetts sustained their trade-mark right
under the state law as against a concern that was selling
medicinal preparations of the present petitioner under the
designation of "Rexall remedies" (Regis v. Jaynes, 185
Massachusetts, 458); afterwards the firm established
priority in the mark as against petitioner in a contested
proceeding in the Patent Office; and subsequently, in the
year 1911, petitioner purchased the business with the
trade-mark right, and has carried it on in connection with
its other business,' which consists in the manufacture of
medicinal preparations, and their distribution and sale
through retail drug stores, known as "Rexall stores,"
situate in the different States of the Union, four of them
being in Louisville, Kentucky.
Meanwhile, about the year 1883, Theodore Rectanus,, a
druggist in Louisville, familiarly known as "Rex," employed this word as a trade-mark for a medicinal preparation known as a "blood purifier." He continued this use
to a considerable extent in Louisville and vicinity, spending money in advertising and building up a trade, so that-

UNITED DRUG CO. v. RECTANUS CO.
90.

Opinion of the Court.

except for whatever effect might flow from Mrs' Regis!
prior adoption of the word in Massachusetts, of which he
was entirely ignorant-he was entitled to use the word as
his trade-mark. In the year 1906 he sold his business, including the right to the use of the word, to respondent;
and the use of the mark by him and afterwards by respondent was continuous from about the year 1883 until
the filing of the bill in the year 1912.
Petitioner's first use of the word "Rex" in connection
with the sale of drugs in Louisville or vicinity was in
April, 1912, when two shipments of "Rex Dyspepsia
Tablets," aggregating 150 boxes and valued at $22.50,
were sent to one of the "Rexall" stores in that city.
Shortly after this the remedy was mentioned by name in
local newspaper advertisements published by those stores.
In the previous September, petitioner shipped a trifling
amount-five boxes-to a drug store in Franklin, Kentucky, approximately '20 miles distant from Louisville.
There is i1 othing to show that before this any customer in
or near Kentucky had heard of the Regis remedy, with or
without the description "Rex," or that this word ever
possessed any meaning to the purchasing public in that
State excett as pointing to Rectanus and the Rectanus
Company and their "blood purifier." That it did and
does convey the latter meaning in Louisville and vicinity
is proved without dispute. Months before petitioner's
first shipment of its remedy to Kentucky, petitioner was
distinctly notified (in June, 1911,) by one of its Louisville distributors that respondent was using the word
"Rex" to designate its medicinal preparations, and that
such use had been commenced by Mr. Rectanus as much
as 16 or 17 years before that time.
There -was nothing to sustain the allegation of unfair
competition, aside from the question of trade-mark infringement. As to this, both courts found, in substance,
that the use of the same mark upon different but somewhat

OCTOBER TER\M, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

2.48 U. S.

related preparations was carried on by the parties and
their respective predecessors contemporaneously, but in
widely separated localities, during the period in questionbetween 25 and 30 years-in perfect good faith, neither
side having any knowledge or notice of what was being
(lone by the other. The District Court held that because
the adoption of the mark by Mrs. Regis antedated its
adoption by itectanus, petitioner's right to the exclusive
use of the word in connection with medicinal preparations
intended for dyspepsia and kindred diseases of the stomach and digestive organs must be sustained, but without
accounting for profits or assessment of damages for unfair
trade; citing McLean v. Fleming, 96 U. S. 245; Menendez
v. Holt, 128 U. S. 514; Saxlchner v. Eisner & Mendelson
Co., 17,9 U. S. 19, 39; Saxlehner v. Siegel-Cooper Co., 179
U. S. 42. The Circuit Court of Appeals held that in view
of the fact that Rectanus had used the mark for a long
period of years in entire ignorance of Mrs. Regis' remedy
or of her trade-mark, had expended money in making his
mark well known, and had established a considerable
though local business under it in Louisville and vicinity,
while on the other hand during the same long period Mrs.
Regis had done nothing, either by sales agencies or by
advertising, to make her medicine or its mark known outside of the New England States, saving sporadic sales in
territory adjacent to those States, and had made no effort
whatever to extend the trade to Kentucky, she and her
.successors were bound to know that, misled by their
silence and inaction, others might act, as Rectanus and
his successors did act, upon the assumption that the field
was open, and therefore were estopped to ask for an injunction against the continued use of the mark in Louisville and vicinity by the Rectanus Company.
The entire argument for the petitioner is suimmed
up in the contention that whenever the first user of a
trade-mark ha .been reasonably diligent in extending the

UNITED DRUG CO. v. RECTANUS CO.
90.

Opinion of the Court.

territory of his trade, and as a result of such extension has
in good faith come into competition with a later user of
the same mark who in equal good faith has extended his
trade locally before invasion of his field by the first user,
so that finally it comes to pass that the rival traders are
offering competitive merchandise in a common market
under the same trade-mark, the later user should be enjoined at the suit of the prior adopter, even though the
latter be the last to enter the competitive field and the
former have already established a trade there. Its application to the case is based upon the hypothesis that the
record shows that Mrs. Regis and her firm, during the
entire period of limited and local trade in her medicine
under the Rex mark, were making efforts to extend their
trade so far as they were able to do with the means at
their disposal. There is little in the record to support this
hypothesis; but, waiving this, we will pass upon the principal contention.
The asserted doctrine is based upon the fundamental
error of supposing that a trade-mark right is a right in
gross or at large, like a statutory copyright or a patent
for an invention, to either of which, in truth, it has little
or no analogy. Canal Co. v. Clark, 13 Wall. 311, 322; McLean v. Fleming, 96 U. S. 245, 254. There is no such
thing as property in a trade-mark except as a right appurtenant to an established business or trade in connection .with which the mark is employed. The law of
trade-marks is but a part of the broader law of unfair
competition; the right to a particular mark grows out of
its use, not its mere adoption; its function is simply to
designate the goods as the product of a particular trader
and to protect his good will against the sale of another's
product as his; and it is not the subject of property'except
in connection with an existing business. Hanover Milling
Co. v. Metcalf, 246 U. S. 403, 412-414.
The owner of a trade-mark may not, like the proprietor

OCTOBEtR TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

of a patented invention, make a negative and merely prohibit-ive use of it as a monopoly. See United States v.
Bell Telephone Co., 167 U. S. 224, 250; Bement v. National
Harrow Co., 186 U. S.70, 90; Paper Bag Patent Case, 210
U. S. 405, 424.
In truth, a trade-mark confers no monopoly whatever
in a proper sense, but is merely a convenient means for
facilitating the protection of one's good-will in trade by
placing a distinguishing mark or symbol-a commercial
signature-upon the merchandise or the package in which
it is sold.
It results that the adoption of a trade-mark does not, at
least in the absenc of some valid legislation enacted for
the purpose, project the right of protection in advance of
the extension of the trade, or operate as a claim of territorial rights over areas into which it thereafter may be
deemed desirable to extend the trade. And thexpression,
sometimes met with, that a trade-mark right is not limited
in its enjoyment by territorial bounds, is true only in the
sense that wherever the trade goes, attended by the use of
the mark, the right of the trader to be protected against
the sale by others of their wares in the place 'of his wares
will be sustained.
Property in trade-marks and the right to their exclusive
use rest upon the laws of the several States, and depend
upon them for security and protection; the power of Congress to legislate on the subject being only such as arises
from the authority to regulate commercd with foreign
nations, and among the several States and with the Indian tribes. Trade-Mark Cases, 100 U. S.82, 93.
Conceding everything that is claimed in behalf, of the
petitioner, the entire business conducted by Mrs.. Regis
and her firm prior to April, 1911, when petitioner acquired
it, was confined to the New England States with inconsiderable sales in New York, New Jersey, Canada, and
Nova Scotia. There was nothing in all of this to give her

UNITED DRUG CO. v. RECTANUS CO.
90.

Opinion of the Court.

any rights in Kentucky, where the principles of the common law obtain. Hunt v. Warnicke's Heirs, 3 Kentucky
(Hardin), 61, 62; Lathrop v. Commercial Bank, 8 Dana
(Ky.), 114, 121; Ray v. Sweeney, 14 Busi (Ky.),, 1, 9;
Aetna Ins. Co. v. Commonwealth, 106 Kentucky, 864, 881;
Nider v. Commonwealth, 140 Kentucky, 684, 687. We
are referred to no decision by the courts of that State,
and have found none, that lays down any peculiar doctrine upon the subject of trade-mark law. There is some
meager legislation, but none that affects this case (Kentucky Stats., § 2572c,'subsec. 7; §§ 4749-4755). There was
hothing to prevent the State of Kentucky (saving, of
course, what Congress might do within the range of its
authority) from conferring affirmative rights upon Rectarius, exclusive in that Commonwealth as against others
whose use of the trade-mark there began at a later time
than his; but whether he had such rights, or respondent
now has them, is a question not presented by the record;
there being no prayer for an injunction to restrain petitioner from using the mark in the competitive field.
It is not , contended, nor is there ground for the contention, that registration of the Regis trade-mark under
either the Massachusetts statute or the act of Congress,
or both, had the effect of enlarging the rights of Mrs.
Regis or of petitioner beyond what they would be under
common-law principles. Manifestly, the Massachusetts
statute (Acts 1895, p. 519, c. 462) could have no extraterritorial effect. And the Act of Congress of March 3,
1881, c. 138, 21 Stat. 502, applied only to commerce with
foreign nations or the Indian tribes, with either of which
this case has nothing to do. See Ryder v. Holt, 128 U. S.
525. Nor is there any provision making registration
equivalent to notice of rights claimed thereunder. The
Act of February 20, 1605, c. 592, 33 Stat. 724, which took
the place of the 1881 Act, while extending protection to
trade-marks used in interstate commerce, does not en-

O( T( )BEtR TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

large the effect of previous registrations, unless renewed
under the provisions of its twelfth section, which has not
been done in this case; hence we need not consider whether
anything in this act would aid the petitioner's case.
Undoubtedly, the general rule is that, as between conflicting claimants to the right to use the same' mark,
priority of appropriation determines the question. See
Canal Co. v. Clark, 13 Wall. 311, 323; McLean v. Fleming,
96 U. S. 245, 251; Manufacturing Co. v. Trainer, 101 U. S.
51, 53; Columbia Mill Co. v. Alcorn, 150 U. S. 460, 463.
But the reason is that purchasers have come to understand the mark as indicating the origin of the wares, so
that its use by a second producer amounts to an attempt
to sell his goods as those of his competitor. The reason for
the rule does not extend to a case where the same trademark happens to be employed simultaneously by two
manufacturers in different markets separate and remote
from each other, so that the mark means one thing in one
market, an entirely different thing in another. It would
be a perversion of the rule of priority to give it such an
application in our broadly extended country that an innocent party who had in good faith employed a trademark in one State, and by the use of it had built up a
trade there, being the first appropriatoi in that jurisdiction, might afterwards be prevented from using it, with
consequent injury to his trade and good-will, at the instance of one who theretofore had employed the same mark
but only in other and remote jurisdictions, upon the
ground that its first employment happened to antedate
that of the first-mentioned trader.
In several ca.3es federal courts have held that a prior
use of a trade-mark in a foreign country did not entitle
its owner to c.aim exclusive trade-mark rights in the
United States as against one who in good faith had adopted
a like trade-mark here prior to the entry of the foreigner
into this market. Richterrv. Anchor Remedy Co., 52 Fed.

UNITED DRUG CO. v. RECTANUS CO.
90.

Opinion of the Court.

Rep. 455, 458; Richter v. Reynolds, 59 Fed. Rep. 577, 579;
Walter Baker & Co. v. Delapenha, 160 Fed. Rep. 746, 748;
Gorham Mfg. Co. v. Weintraub, 196 Fed. Rep. 957, 961.
The same point was involved in Hanover Milling Co. v.
Metcalf, 240 U. S. 403, 415, where we said: "In the ordinary case of parties competihi" under the same mark in
the same market, it is correct to say that prior appropriation settles the question. But where two parties independently are employing the same mark upon goods of
the same class, but in separate markets wholly remote
the one from the other, the question of prior appropriation
is legally insignificant, unless at least it appear that the
second adopter has selected the mark with some design
inimical to the interests of the firstuser, such as to take
the benefit of the reputation of his goods, to forstall the
extension of his trade, or the like."
In this case, as already remarked, there is no suggestion
of a sinister purpose on the part of Rectanus or the
Rectanus Company; hence the passage quoted correctly,
defines the status of the parties prior to.the time wher_
they cam into competition in the Kentucky market.
And it results, as a necessary inference from what we
have said, that petitioner, being the newcomer in that
market,' must enter it -subject to whatever rights had
previously been acquired there in good faith by the
Rectanus Company and its predecessor. To hold otherwise--to require Rectanus to retire from the field upon
the entry of Mrs. Regis' successor-would be to establish
the right of- the latter as a right in gross, and to extend it
to territory wholly remote from the furthest reach of the
trade to which it was annexed, with the effect not merely
of depriving Rectanus of the benefit of the good-will
resulting from hisAong-continued use of the mark in
Louisville and vicinity, and his substantial expenditures
in building up his trade, but of enabling petitioner to
reap substantial benefit from the publicity that Rectanus.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

has thus givQn to the mark in that locality, and of confusing if not misleading the public as to the origin of goods
thereafter sold in Louisville under the Rex mark, for, in
that market, until petitioner entered it, "Rex" meant
the Rectanus product, not that of Regis.
In support of its contentio.i petitioner cites the same
cases that were relied upon by the District Court, namely,
McLean v. Flem,,g, 96 U. S. 245; Menendez v. Holt, 128
U. S. 514; Saxlehner v. Eisner & Mendelson Co., 179 U. S.
19, 39; and Saxlehner v. Siegel-Cooper Co., 179 U. S. 42.
They exemplify the rule that, where the proof of infringement is clear, a court of equity will not ordinarily refuse
an injunction for the future protection of the proprietor
of a trade-mark right, even where his acquiescence and
laches have been such as to disentitle him to an accounting for the past profits of the infringer. The rule finds
appropriate application in cases of conscious infringement
or fraudulent imitation, as is apparent from a reading of
the opinions in those cases; but it has no pertinenoy to
such a state of facts as we are now dealing with. In
McLean v. Fleming,.the only question raised in this court
that affected the right of the appellee to an injunction was
whether the Circuit Court had erred in finding that
defendant's labels "Dr. McLean's Universal Pills," etc.,
infringed complainant's label "Dr. C. McLane's Celebrated Liver Pills," and this turned upon whether the
similarity was sufficient to deceive ordinarily careful
purchasers. The evidence showed without dispute that
from the beginning of his use of the offending labels the
defendant (McLean) had known of the McLane liver
pills, and raised at least a serious question whether he
did not adopt his labels for the purpose of palming off his
goods as those of complainant. What he controverted was
that his labels amounted to an infringement of complainant's, and when Lhis was decided against him the
propriety of the injunction was clear. In Menendez v.

UNITED DRUG CO. v. RECTANUS CO.
90.

Opinion of the Court.

Holt, likewise, defendants (Menendez) admitted tha
existence of the brand in question-the words "La
Favorita" as applied to flour-and admitted using it, but
denied that Holt & Company were the owners, alleging
that one Rider was a former member- of that firm and
entitled to use the brand, and that under him defendants
had sold their flour branded "La Favorita, S. 0. Rider."
There was, however, no question but that defendants
adopted the brand knowing it to be already in use by
otners. In the Saxlehner Cases, the facts were peculiar,
and need not be rehearsed; injunctions were allowed to
restrain the sale of certain waters in bottles and under
labels in which those of complainant were intentionally
imitated. In all four cases the distinguishing features of
the present case were absent.
Here the essential facts are so closely parallel to those
that furnished the basis of decision in the Allen & Wheeler
Case, reported sub nom. Hanover Milling Co. v. Metcalf,

240 U. S. 403, 419-420, as to render further discussion
unnecessary. Mrs. Regis and her firm, having during a
long period of years confined their use of the "Rex" mark
to a limited territory wholly remote from that in controversy, must be held to have taken the risk that some
innocent party might in the meantime hit upon the same
mark, apply it to goods of similar character, and expend
money and effort in building up a trade under it; and
since it appears that Rectanus in good faith, and without

notice of any prior use by others, selected and used the
"Rex" mark, and by the expenditure of money and effort
succeeded in building up a local but valuabletrade under
it in Louisville ond vicinity before petitioner entered that

field, so that "Rex" had come to be recognized there as
the "trade signature" of Rectanus and of respondent as
his successor, petitioner is estopped to set up their continued use of the mark in that territory as an infringement
of the Regis trade-mark. Whatever confusion may have

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

248 U. S.

arisen from conflicting use of the mark is attributable to
petitioner's entry into the field with notice of the situation; and petitioner cannot complain of this. As already
stated, respondent is not complaining of it.
Decree affirmed.

RUDDY v. ROSSI.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IDAHO.
No. 17.

Submitted November 13, 1918.-DeQided December 9, 1918.

Section 4,of the Homestead Act of May 20, 1862, (§ 2296, Rev. Stats.),
providing that no lands acquired 'under the act shall in any event
become liable to the satisfaction of any debt contracted prior to
the issuance of patent therefor, -applies as well to debts contracted
after final entry and before patent as to debts contracted before
final proof, and in both respects is within the constitutional power
of Congress.

28 Idaho, 376, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Charles E. Miller for plaintiff in error. Mr. A. H.
Featherstone was also on the brief:
The jurisdiction of the Interior Department respecting
a homestead entry is not divested until the patent is
issued. [Citing Land Decisions.]
The doctrine of relation is inapplicable in the construction of the statute. Debts contracted after final
entry but before patent are within the intention no less
than the clear letter. Wallowa National Bank v. Riley,
29 Oregon, 289; Watson v. Voorhees, '14 Kansas, 254;
Doran v. Kennedy, 237 U. S. 362; Hussman v. Durham,
165 U. S. 144; (-f. Leopard v. Ross 23 Kansas, 292);

