DETROIT UNITED RAILWAY v. DETROIT.

429

Syllabus.

DETROIT UNITED RAILWAY v. CITY OF DETROIT.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.

No. 666.

Argued December 9, 10, 1918.-Decided January 13, 1919.

Where the District Court, in denying a preliminary injunction, of it
own motion dismisses the bill, its action is equivalent to sustaining
a demurrer, and, upon appeal, the allegations of the bill must be
taken as true. P. 431.
A city, instead of exercising its power to compel the removal of tracks
operated by a street car company without franchise, passed an ordinance looking to their continued operation by the company and prescribing fares and transfer privileges and penalties for violations.
Held, equivalentto a grant of a right to operate during the life of the
ordinance, entitling the company to a fair return on its investment.
Denver v. Denver Union Water Company, 246 U. S. 178. P. 435.
A company operated a system of city street car lines, for some of which
it had franchises entitling it to charge a certain fare and for others
no franchises. An ordinance, regulating the entire system,"purported explicitly to fix the fares for trips over two or more lines,
whether franchise or not, and forbade extra charge for transfers,
defining a continuous trip as a journey from one point to another
in the city, whether made on one car or line, or by transferring from
car to car or from line to line; declaring, however, that it should not
be construed as an attempt to impair the obligation of any valid
contract, but should apply to and govern all such street railway
passenger traffic in the city except where governed by the provisions
of such contract.
Held: (1) That the latter declaration must be construed as referring
only to trips wholly on the franchise lines (p. 435); (2) that if its
enforcement would result in a deficit to the company, as alleged,
the ordinance violated the due process clause. P. 436.
An ordinance compelling a street car company to carry passengers on
continuous trips over franchise lines to and over non-franchise lines,
and vice versa, for a fare no greater than its franchises entitle
it to charge upon the former alone, impairs the obligation of the
franchise contracts. Detroit United Railway v. Michigan, 242 U. S.
238. P. 437.
Reversed.

OCTOBER, TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Elliott G. Stevenson, with whom Mr. John C. Donnelly, Mr. William L. Carpenter, Mr. P. J. M. Hally and
Mr. Bernard F. Weadock were on the briefs, for appellant.
Mr. Allan H. Frazer and Mr. Richard I. Lawson for
appellee.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

The Detroit United Railway Company brought this
action in the United States District Court for the Eastern
District of Michigan to enjoin the City of Detroit from
enforcing the provisions of an ordinance regulating street
railway fares in that city. The ordinance was passed
August 9, 1918. It is printed in the margin.1
Ordinance to fix and establish maximum rates of fares and
charges which may be exacted and received by persons, corporations or
partnerships operating street railways for the carriage of passengers
within the City of Detroit, and to fix a penalty for the violation thereof.
It is Hereby Ordained by the People of the City of Detroit:
Section 1. No person, partnership or corporation operating a street
railway on the streets of the City of Detroit, for the carriage of passengers for hire, shall charge more than five cents for a single ride, or
six tickets for 25 cents, per person for one continuous trip within the
city over any line which is now operated or shall hereafter be operated
without a franchise fixing the rate of fare.
Section 2. No such person, partnership or corporation shall charge a
higher rate of fare upon any line now or hereafter operated under a
franchise contract than is fixed by such franchise.
Section 3. Between the hours of five and six-thirty a. m. and four
forty-five and five forty-five p. m. tickets in strips of eight for twentyfive cents shall be sold on all cars on all lines except where such sale
would be contrary to the terms of a franchise contract, which tickets
shall entitle the holder to the same rights between said hours as the
payment of a five cent fare would.
Section 4. Where a trip is over two or more lines, whether francbise
lines or not, the maximum fare shall be five cents, and no transfer fee
1 An

DETROIT UNITED RAILWAY v. DETROIT.
429.

431

Opinion of the Court.

The bill attacks the ordinance upon two constitutional
grounds: 1st, That it impairs the obligation of the company's existing contracts; 2nd, That it is confiscatory
and hence deprives thf. company of its property without
due process of law. The suit came on for hearing before
the district judge upon an application for a temporary
injunction, the judge denied the application and upon his
own motion dismissed the bill.
The question upon this appeal is: Did the bill, taking
its allegations to be true, state grounds for relief to which
the company was entitled upon the facts set forth? The
action of the District Court was equivalent to sustaining
a demurrer to the bill.
shall be exacted which raises the total charge to more than five cents
or six for 25 cents.
Section. 5 A continuous trip means one journey from point to point
within the city, whether the same is made upon one car or one line or by
means of transferring from car to car or from line to line. Each such
person, partnership or corporation, and the officers, agents, ser;ants
and employ6s thereof, shall, upon demand, furnish proper transfers
to carry into effect the provisions of this section. The provisions of
this Ordinance shall not be construed as an attempt to impair the obligation of any valid contract, but shall apply to and govern all such street
railway passenger traffic in the city, except where the same is governed
by the provisions of such contract.
Section 6. Any such person, partnership or corporation which shall
violate the provisions of this Ordinance, or shall attempt to do so, and
any officer, agent, servant or employ6 who shall order or direct any
such violation or attempted violation of the provisions of this Ordinance, shall be guilty of an offense, and upon conviction shall be fined
not to exceed five hundred dollars, or imprisoned in the Detroit House
of Correction for not to exceed ninety days, or shall Le both fined and
imprisoned in the discretion of the court, for each violation.
Section 7. This Ordinance is passed for the public welfare in the case
of an emergency involving the peace, health and safety of the people
of the city, and it is ordered to take immediate effect. It may be
amended or repealed at any time by the Common Council of the City
of Detroit. Unless so amended or repealed it shall remain in force for
one year from August 9, 1918.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

The bill alleges that the complainant company is the
owner of all the street railways in the City of Detroit,

constituting a system of tracks of upwards of two hundred
and seventy miles. The sources of title of the company
are set forth in the bill, and shown by many exhibits.
It is sufficient for the present purpose to say that the system consists of a considerable mileage of tracks upon which
the franchises have expired; upon other portions of the
system there are unexpired franchises, some of them derived from villages in which the roads were constructed,
which villages were subsequently incorporated into the
city. That from December 1, 1917, its system was operated, except the so-called 3-cent lines, upon terms as
follov*: 5-cent cash fares for each passenger carried on or
over it ,lines, including so-called universal transfers, with
workingmen's tickets, 8 for 25 cents, between certain
hours, and on the so-called 3-cent lines a cash fare of 5
cents, with 8 tickets for 25 cents between certain hours;
good only on such 3-cent lines with the privilege of a
transfer on payment of a 5-cent cash fare, and also with
the privilege of purchase of 6 tickets for 25 cents, also
good between certain hours. It is averred that afterwards
it became necessary to increase rates of fare. The bill
recites the demand of the employees of the company
for increased-4wages, which was refused; that a submission
of the controversy was made to the War Labor Board;
that the Board after a hearing awarded a substantial increase of wages, and recommended an increase in passenger fares to enable the company to -meet this cost. The
bill alleges that the increase made by the War Labor
Board amounted to about $2,000,000 per annum. The
company petitioned the city for an increase of rates of
fare, and this petition was denied.
On August 7, 1918, the company put in force a schedule
of its own, making single fares 6 cents, with 10 tickets for
55 cents, cash fare or tickets good on connecting or inter-

DETROIT UNITED RAILWAY v. DETROIT.
429.

433

Opinion of the Court.

secting lines within the city. It is contended that this
action of the company was without legal authority.
Whether this was authorized or not, is not an issue involved in this case, and we express no opinion concerning
it. The matters involved in this bill concern the validity
of the ordinance passed August 9, 1918.
It is further alleged that Detroit is a city of a population exceeding 750,000; that it is an industrial city with
much the larger part of its male population employed
in industrial plants within and adjacent to the city; that
the operation of the company's railway system was the
only means of transportation of such employees from their
homes to their places of employment, and that the interruption of the operation of the company's system, or the
separation in operation of the franchise from the nonfranchise lines, would paralyze the industrial and business
life of the city, throw thousands of its residents out of
employment, and result in shutting down. its industrial
plants and factories. Allegations follow setting forth the
value of the company's property, and stating that the
effect of the ordinance, if enforced, will be to require the
operation of the company's system at a deficit, and, consequently, with no return on the investment.
The learned district judge answered the contention
of
the company by holding, in substance, that as to the nonfranchise lines the remedy of the company was to abandon
the service and take its property from the city streets,
and that as to the franchise lines the exception of the
fifth section of the ordinance saved the company's contract rights from impairment. There can be no question
that it was within the city's power to compel the company
as to its non-franchise lines to remove its tracks from the
streets of the city. This. was settled in Detroit United
Railway v. Detroit, 229 U. S. 39. The city did not do so.
Instead of taking such action it passed the ordinance in
controversy, providing for the continued operation of

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

the company's system. This ordinance has application
to the entire street railway system. In section one it provides that no more than 5 cents shall be charged for a
single ride, or 6 tickets for 25 cents, for one continuous trip
through the city over any line operated without a franchise. Section two, purports to preserve the right to
charge franchise rates when fixed by contract. Section
three provides for fares, 8 tickets for 25 cents, except when
such fares are contrary to contract rights. Section four
provides that where a trip is over two or more lines,
whether franchise or not, the maximum fare shall be 5
cents, or 6 tickets for 25 cents, and no transfers shall
be exacted which raise these rates of fare. Section five
defines a continuous trip to mean a journey from one point
in the city to another, whether on one car line or by means
of transfers, and the company is required to furnish
transfers to carry the provisions of the ordinance into
effect. It is further provided that the ordinance is not to
be construed as an attempt to impair the obligation of any
valid contract, but shall apply to all street railway passenger traffic in the city except when the same is governed by the provisions of a contract. Section six provides
for fines or imprisonment for violations of the provisions
of the ordinance. Section seven provides that the ordinance shall be in effect for the term of one year from August 9, 1918, unless sooner amended or repealed.
The allegations of the bill, which for the present purposes must be taken as true, are ample to the effect that
the enforcement of this ordinance -will result in a deficit
to the company. We cannot construe the exception of
section five, having reference to existing franchise contracts, in such way as to modify the requirements of
section four which in explicit terms fixes the fares for
trips over two or more lines whether franchise lines or not,
and limits the maximum fare without charge for transfers.
This must be read .in view of the definition of a continuous

DETROIT UNITED RAILWAY v. DETROIT.
429.

435

Opinion of the Court.

trip in section five, as meaning a journey from one point to
another point in the city whether the same is made on one
car line or by means of transfers from car to car or from
line to line. The exception in section five can have no further effect consistently with the other provisions of the
ordinance, particularly those of section four, than to regulate fares where trips are wholly upon franchise lines. A
principal ground upon which the bill was dismissed by
the District Court was the view of the learned judge that
the power to compel the company to remove its tracks
from the streets involving the non-franchise roads included the right to fix terms of continued operation upon
such lines, whether remunerative or not. We cannot
agree with this view. In our opinion the case in this
respect is ruled in principle by Denver v. Denver Union
Water Co., 246 U. S. 178. In that case the franchise of a
water company had expired, and the city might have
refused the further use of the streets to the company.
Instead of doing this it passed an ordinance fixing rates
and requiring certain duties of the company. We held
that in that situation the company Was entitled to make
a reasonable return upon its investment. So here, the
city might have required the company to cease its service
and remove its tracks from the non-franchise lines within
the city. Instead of taking this course the city enacted
an ordinance for the continued operation of the company's system, with fares and transfers for continuous
trips over lines composing the system whether the same
had a franchise or not. This action contemplated the
further operation of the system, and fixed penalties for
violations of the ordinance. By its terms the ordinance
is to continue in force for the period of one year, unless
sooner amended or repealed. This was a clear recognition that until the city repeald the ordinance the public
service should continue, with the use of the streets essential
to carry on further service. Within the principles of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

Denver Case this service could not be required without
giving to t1he company, thus affording it, a reasonable
return upon its investment. In the Denver Case we said:
"The very act of regulating the company's rates was a
recognition that its plant must continue, as before, to
serve the public needs. The fact that no term was specified is, under the existing circumstances, as significant
of an intent that the service should continue while the
need existed as of an intent that it should not be perpetual."
In the present case the service upon the terms fixed in
the ordinance is continued for a year, the city reserving
the right.to repeal the ordinance at any time.
It is clear that the city might have taken a different
course by requiring the company to remove its tracks from
the non-franchise lines; it elected to require continued
maintenance of the public service, doubtless because it
was believed that it was necessary in the existing conditions in the city to continue for a time at least the right
of the railway company to operate its lines. This
amounted to a grant to the company for further operation
of the system, during the life of the ordinance. For this
public service it was entitled to a fair return upon its
investment. Elements to be taken into consideration
in valuing the property of the company in estimating
a
fair return are not involved in this case. If the allegations of the bill are true, and for present purposes they
*must be so regarded, the continued operation of the railroad system of the company upon the fares fixed in the
ordinance will result in a deficit, and deny to the company due process of law within the meaning of the Federal
Constitution.
As rates of fare are fixed on some of the existing franchise lines at 5 cents without transfers, it would follow
as to continuous trips over such franchise and non-franchise lines, such trips comprehending much of the trans-

DETROIT UNITED RAILWAY v. DETROIT.
429.

437

CLARKE, J., dissenting.

portation required, the latter lines would be without compensation for the service rendered. Furthermore, when
a continuous trip begins on a non-franchise line and is
over a franchise line and a non-franchise line, the former
having the right to charge 5 cents for a trip over it, the
effect would be to impair the obligation of the franchise
contract. Detroit United Railway v. Michigan, 242 U. S.
238.
In our view the allegations of this bill for the purposes
of the demurrer sufficiently alleged violations of the Constitution of the United States in the action of the city in
passing and enforcing the ordinance in controversy. The
District Court should have entertained the bill, heard
the application for a temporary injunction, and proceeded to a hearing and determination of the case in due
course.

Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE dissenting.

The relation between the city and the railway company,
when the ordinance which the court holds unconstitutional was passed, was this:
The company owned three classes of tracks, viz:
(a) Those in the business and residence streets most
productive of traffic, constituting the greater part of the
lines of the company, Its authority to maintain these
tracks expired in 1909-1910, and they are designated in
the record as "Non-franchise lines." It willbe convenient
to refer to the streets in which these lines are located
as "Non-franchise streets."
(b) Tracks designated as "Three-cent franchise lines,"
(Exhibit "T"), also largely in business and important
residence streets. The company had franchises for these
lines under which it was obliged to sell eight tickets for
twenty-five cents good from 5.45 a. m. to 8 o'clock p.
m. and six tickets for twenty-five cents good during the

438

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
CLA.RxE, J., dissenting.

248 U. S

remainder of the twenty-four hours. Such tickets entitled the holders to transfer privileges only on all threecent lines.
.(c) Disconnected sections of track, of small mileage, in
streets remote from the business parts of the city. For
these lines the company had unexpired franchises granted
by villages and townships before the extension of the
city limits included them, which allowed a fare of five
cents, in some places, in others five cents with transportation to the City Hall. The mileage of these grants varied
from five miles to "six blocks" in length, they are described in the bill as lying, some to the north, others to
the south, others to the east and others to the west of
the city, as it was when the grants were made and, thus
widely separated, they had no connection one with the
other, except over non-franchise or three-cent franchise
tracks. These are designated as "Five-cent: franchise
lines."

It was stated at the bar by counsel for the city, and not
questioned, that there were about one hundred and fifty
miles of non-franchise. lines, about sixty-five miles of the
three-cent franchise lines,. and only fifty-five miles of
five-cent franchise lines.
In their brief counsel for the company say that the
larger part of the company's lines had been operated for
several years prior to December, 1917, on what was known
as the "Day-to-day agreement," (and see Detroit United
Railway v. Detroit, 229 U. S. 39, 42), under which a rental
was paid to the city for the use of the streets and the company was allowed to charge a cash fare of five cents or
seven tickets for twenty-five cents, except during an hour
and a half. in the morning and one hour in the evening,
when, tickets sold eight for twenty-five cents were ac-'
cepted. For these fares transfers were given over the
entire lines of the company. Either party could withdraw
from this arrangement at any time, and in December,

DETROIT UNITED RAILWAY v. DETROIT.
429.

CLARKE,

439

J., dissenting.

1917, the company did withdraw from it and thereafter
was allowed to charge, on other than its three-cent franchise lines, a cash fare of five cents, but with eight tickets
for twenty-five cents, good for one and a half hours in
the morning and for one hour in the evening. Universal
transfers were allowed for these fares.
This arrangement continued until August 2, 1918, when,
not satisfied, the company proposed to the city a five-cent
fare with a charge of one cent for a transfer over all lines
in the city one-fare zone, or, in the alternative, a six-cent
fare with ten tickets for fifty-five cents and universal
transfers, the franchise rates on the three-cent lines to
continue, except that for the fares last named universal
transfers would be given.
This proposal the city rejected and thereupon the company, without. any authority from the city, put into
operation the second proposal above stated, allowing
transfers over any connecting or intersecting line within
the city limits. In response to this action of the railway
company the city passed the ordinance which, for two reasons, the court has held invalid, viz:
(1) Over certain of the franchise lines a five-cent rate
of fare without transfers was provided for in the grants,
and because section four of the ordinance required transportation "where a trip is over two or more lines, whether
franchise lines or not," without transfer charge, it is held
that, if this provision were enforced, the effect would be
to impair such five-cent franchise contracts and that the
ordinance is therefore void.
(2) Interpreting the ordinance as a grant to the company of the right to operate its lines, franchise and'nonfranchise, at rates which the bill alleges to be non-compensatory, the court holds it invalid because it would
deprive the company of its property without due process
of law.
The case must be considered on the allegations of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
CL.ARK,

J., dissenting.

248 U. S.

bill as if on demurrer and my reasons for dissenting from
both of these conclusions of the court are as follows:
As to the first. It is not anywhere alleged in the bill
that the" Five-cent franchise lines" (no complaint is made
as to the 3-cent lines) can be operated separately and profitably or that less income would be realized from them
if operated under the terms of section four in conjunction
with the non-franchise lines than if they were operated as
separate properties, if such thing be possible, charging
the five-cent franchise rate without transfers. Without such an allegation it is pure conjecture to say that the
company would suffer loss and that its contract would be
impaired by giving effect to section four. He who would
strike down a law must show that the alleged unconstitutional feature injures him and operates to deprive him
of rights protected by the Federal Constitution. Plymouth Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania, 232 U. S. 531, 534.
But the bill not only fails to allege that the railway company would suffer loss from giving effect to section four,
but it states facts which render it highly probable, if not
entirely clear, that it would benefit by it.
All five-cent franchise lines appear from the bill to be,
as we have said, outlying, of limited mileage, and so
wholly disconnected one from the other that it would not
be practicable to operate them profitably, if at all, except
in connection with non-franchise lines. The record shows
that in the past they have been so operated, with mutual
transfers, and both of the proposals of the company made
to the city on August 2, 1918, contemplated such operation. In the absence of allegation to the contrary, the
reasonable inference from this description of the five-cent
franchise lines and this practice with respect to them is,
that it is not practicable to operate them profitably as
separate properties and that whatever value there is in
them must be realized by operating them jointly with the
non-franchise lines, with mutual transfers, and that the

DETROIT UNITED RAILWAY v. DETROIT. -441
429.

CLARmm, J., dissenting.

company would be benefited, and not injured, by being
permitted to so operate them under section four.
But, should this section four be construed to prescribe
a rate for transfer over franchise lines?
The first section, as printed in the margin of the court's
opinion, prescribes a charge "for one continuous trip
within the city over any line which is now operated or shall
hereafter be operated, without a franchise fizing the rate
of fare."
Clearly this is intended not to apply to the franchise
lines.
The second section declares that the charge over franchise lines shall not be greater than is fixed in the franchise.
This plainly contemplates allowing the full franchise
rate where one exists.
Section three provides for the special or "workingmen's" tickets but carefully excepts from its application "all lines . . . where such sale would be 'contrary to the terms of a franchise contract."
Section five in terms declares "the provisions of this
Ordinance shall not be construed as an attempt to impair
the obligation of any valid contract, but shall apply to
and govern all such street railway passenger traffic ini
the city, except where the same is governed by the provisions of such contract."
Thus we have in the ordinance a declaration that the
rate prescribed shall apply only to non-franchise lines,
that the franchise rate shall apply on all franchise lines,
that special ticket rates shall not apply where they conflict with franchise rates, and in addition there is the
general declaration that the city council is intending to
deal with non-franchise lines only, and that the ordinance
shall not be so construed as to impair franchise contracts.
To this we must add that, it is clear that, excluding the
five-cent franchise lines, this section four would still have

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
CLARKE, J., dissenting.

248 U. S.

a large and indisputably valid application to both nonfranchise and franchise lines. The ordinance was designed
to apply to 150 miles of non-franchise lines, extending in
all directions throughout the city, and to regulate transfers between various parts of these lines. In addition to
this, the three-cent franchise lines are greater in extent and
much more important than the five-cent franchise lines.
From December, 1917, to August 2, 1I918, transfers were
allowed over all of the non-franchise lines'and between
the five-cent and three-cent franchise lines and the nonfranchise lines upon payment of the fare prescribed in section four-five-cent fare, or six tickets for twenty-five cents
-- and it was plainly the primary purpose of the section to
continue this rate and practice and not to permit the
charge to be increased to six cents, as contemplated in the
proposal of the company to the city of August 2, 1918.
No complaint is made of the application of the section
to the three-cent franchise lines.
All of this is overlooked by the court, and laying hold
of the possible loss to the company (wholly improbable
as we have seen) through the application of the section
to the five-cent lines, the entire ordinance is struck down
as unconstitutional.
This judicial power of declaring laws unconstitutional
is of so high and delicate a character that it has been
.)ften declared by this court that it would exercise it only
in clear cases, Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 87, 128; Fairbank v. United States, 181 U. S. 283. Every possible presumption is in favor of a statute and this continues until
the contrary is shown beyond a rational doubt, SinkingFund Cases, 99 U. S. 700, 718. The violation of the Constitution must be "proved beyond all reasonable doubt,"
Odgen v. Saunders, 12 Wheat. 213, 270; Nicol v. Ames, 173
U. S. 509, 515.
But if it be assumed that the application of section four
would result in loss to the company and would impair

DETROIT UNITED RAILWAY ?,. DETROIT.
429.

1.13

CLARK., J., dissenting.

its five-cent franchise contracts, even then it would seem
that the section should be annulled only in so fax as it
might be applied to such grants and that the remainder,
which is not assailed, should be permitted to stand, under
the rule of this court applied from Bank of Hamilton v.
Dudley, 2 Pet. 492, 526, to St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co.

v. Arkansas, 235 U. S. 350, that if only part of an act
be unconstitutional the provisions of that part may be
disregarded and full effect given to the remainder, if severable from the unconstitutional part of the act, as it clearly
is in this case.
Coming now to the second and more fundamental
ground, on which the court proceeds to its conclusion.
It is held that the ordinance contemplates the continued
operation of the non-franchise lines, and therefore, applying the novel doctrine of the Denver Union Water
Company Case, 246 U. S. 178, that it is a grant which,
if given effect, would necessarily deprive the company of
its property without due process of law, since the allegations of the bill are that it would be non-compensatory.
We are now dealing, not with an alleged attempt on the
part of the city to require the company to operate its
five-cent and its three-cent franchise lines at a loss, but
with an offer to it of a right to operate the lines in the
non-franchise streets, in which it has no rights, in conjunction with its other lines at what is alleged to be a noncompensatory rate for the entire system. The right of the
company to operate the five-cent and three-cent lines
was complete without the ordinance and the operation
of them, as separate properties, was quite unaffected by it.
In defining the relation between the city and the company as it was before the ordinance, which is declared invalid, was passed, the court holds, as it must (229 U. S.
39), that the company had no rights in the non-franchise
streets, and that the city had the right to order its tracks
taken out of them.

OCTOBER TERM, 191M
CLARKYE, J.,

dissenting.

248 U. S.

This being the legal relation between the two parties,
the company, on August 2, 1918, made its proposal for
increased fares, which was rejected by the city. This proposal, when followed by rejection, obviously did not
change the relation of the parties from what they were
before it was made.
Thereupon the city made its counter-proposal by tendering the ordinance rates to the company, which promptly
rejected them. It seems equally clear that this proposal
and the rejection of it did not change the relations of the
parties and that they continued precisely as they were
before and as they were defined in the opinion of the
court-the railway company without any rights whatever
in the non-franchise streets. But, not so says the court,
for the reason that the ordinance implies that the lines
are to be operated and, under the Denver Case, it must
therefore be interpreted as a grant, (contrary it would
seem to Blair v. Chicago, 201 U. S. 400, 463), and, since it
is alleged that the rates prescribed are non-compensatory,
it is an invalid grant.
If it be conceded that the ordinance is in terms a grant,
yet since every grant implies and requires a grantee, when
the company refused to accept it the grant necessarily
failed. It is obvious and elementary that no person or
corporation can be made a grantee against his or its will.
Kent Com., 13th ed., vol. 4, p. 455, note b. Thus, again,
even on the assumption of the court, it would seem that
the ordinance failed to change the relations of the arties
from what they were before.
The conclusion of the District Court that this case
can be distinguished from the Denver Union Water Company Case, and therefore is not to be ruled by it, seems
sound, but the distinction need not be discussed.
The application of the principle of that case to this one
must result in depriving the city of the power to treat
with the company for terms for the operation of the tracks

DETROIT UNITED RAILWAY v. DETROIT.
429.

Cr&ARn,

445

J., dissenting.

which it owns in the streets in which its franchises have
expired and in which this court has decided it has no
rights whatever, except upon terms as favorable to the
company as it would be entitled to if it had a valid and
continuing grant to operate in them. The utmost that
can be claimed for the ordinance is that it suffers the company to use streets which it could not use at all without
it,-for the company to use them in any other way than
as thus permitted would be unlawful. Yet this mere
offer of this naked privilege, in terms revocable at will,
and rejected by the company, is held to give a constitutional right and at the same time to so violate that right
as to render the ordinance invalid. I cannot bring myself
to understand how, except by sheer assertion of power,
even the apparent justice of the result which it is hoped
thus to obtain can be made the basis for creating a constitutional right where no right whatever existed before
the passing of this rejected ordinance.
If the management of the company was misinformed as
to the effect of the expiring of its franchises, as seems
probable (229 U. S. 39), or if it undere~timated the dRlcilties in the way of securing an extension of them, the
result, as declared by this court in the case just cited, was
to deprive the company of all legal rights in the nonfranchise streets, and while its misfortune may be regretted, the apparent hardship of the situation is no valid
ground for raising a constitutional right in favor of one
of the parties, which will result in depriving the other
party of an advantage which has lawfully come to it.
Substantial justice is more likely to result from trusting
to the sense of fairness of a community in dealing with
such cases than from imposing upon a city a contract
which a court shall make for them. The language used by
Mr. Justice Holmes, when dissenting in the Denver Case,
246 U. S. 196, is sharply applicable to this' case, mutatis
mutandis: "We must assume that the Water Company

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

248 U. S.

may be required, within a reasonable time, to remove its
pipes from the streets. Detroit United Railway v. Detroit,
229 U. S. 39, 46. . . . In view of that right of the
City, which, if exercised, would make the Company's
whole plant valueless as such, the question recurs whether
the fixing of any rate by the City could be said to confiscate property on the ground that the return was too low.
The ordinance of the City could mean no more
than that the Company must accept the City's rates or
stop-and as it could be stopped by the City out and out,
the general. principle is that it could be stopped unless a
certain price should be paid."
For the reasons thus stated, I think that the ordinance
is valid, and that the judgment of the District Court should
be affirmed, and therefore I am compelled to dissent from
the opinion and judgment of the court.
I am authorized to say that MR. JUSTICE HOLMES and
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS concur in this opinion.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY v. STEWART.
ERROR

No. 89.

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
Submitted December 20, 1918.-Decided January 13, 1919.

As to the jurisdiction in this case, see s. c. 245 U. S. 359; id. 562.
A stipulation in a contract governed by the Carmack Amendment for
the interstate transportation of live stock released the carrier from
all loss or damage unless a written claim therefor were made on the
carrier's freight claim agent within ten days after unloading of the
live stock. Held valid, under St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern
Ry. Co. v. Starbird,243 U. S. 592, and E'ie R.R' Co. v. Stone, 244

