NEILSON r. RtItNE SHIPPING CO.
Syllabus.

185.

given a remedy in the courts of the United States. The
defense of an advance payment is precluded and clearance
of the foreign vessel is forbidden. And thus the act has
completeness of right and remedy and, we think, precludes
judicial limitation of either. Its provisions are simple
and direct, there is no confusion in their command, no
difficulty in their obedience. Of course, a "master, owner,
consignee, or agent of" any foreign vessel, to quote the
words of the act again, cannot violate any provision of it
if he be not in the United States. If there be provisions
that cannot reach him, that with which this case is concerned can reach him.
We are, therefore, of opinion that the District Court was
right in refusing to allow the Liverpool advances and the*
Circuit Court of Appeals was wrong in reversing the
ruling.

NEILSON ET AL. v. RHINE SHIPPING COMPANY,
CLAIMANT OF THE SAILING SIP "RHINE."
,HARDY ET AL. v. SHEPARD & MORSE LUMBER
COMPANY, CLAIMANT OF THE BARKENTINE
"WINDRUSH."
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
Nos. 393, 394. Argued November 5, 1918.-Decided December 23, 1918.

Section 11 of the Seaman's Act of 1915, c. 153, 38 Stat. 1164, construed as not prohibiting advance payment of wages when made by
P. 212.
an American vessel to secure seamen in a foreign port
Sandbcrg v. McDptald, ante, 185.

250 Fed. Rep. ISO, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Petitioners.

248 U. S.

The cases are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Silas B. Axtell, with whom Mr.'Vernon S. Jones was
on the brief, for petitioners:
A contract cannot be given legal effect in a court of
the United States which is contrary tothe declared public
policy, of the United States; and this rule is not affected
by the fact that the objectionable parts of the contracts
have been executed and that those remaining axe innocuous. Hope v. Hope, 8 DeG. M. & G. 731; The.Kensington, 183 U. S.'263.
The policy of a State is evidenced by its constitution
and laws. It is also obvious that no State will gi-e effect
to the laws of another on tho principles of comity when
the effect would be injurious to the State or its citizens.
Woodward v.- Roane, 23 Arkansas, 523; Marshall v. Sherman, 148 N. Y. 9; Hill v. Spear, 50 N. II. 253, 262.
This practice of "crimping" is vile and pernicious,
destructive of a free and clean class of seamen. It involves greater moral turpitude than gambling. See
Pattersonv. Bark Eudora, 190 U. S. 169:
The contract was one looking to a performance partly
on board an American vessel while on the high seas and
partly within the territorial jurisdiction of the United
States; the law of the place of performance governs.
Congress intended the act to apply to all advances,
made in foreign ports where the satisfaction of the advance note might be made in the United States. The
penal provisions of a statute do not necessarily make it
penal in its whole intent or for all purposes. Hyde v.
Cogan, 2 Doug. 699; Short v. Hubbard, 2 Bing. 349. Also
a statute which is made for the good of the public, though
it is penal, ought to receive an equitable and liberal construction. Tyner v. United States, 23 App. D. C. 324..
In affording relief in a civil suit under a statute, both
remedial and penal, the court will not be bound by any

NEILSON v. RHINE SHIPPING CO.
205.

Argument for Respondents.

narrow technical or forced interpretation by which it
might have been bound were the statute alone penal.
Northern Securities Co. v. United States, 193 U. S. 197;

United States v. Twenty-five Packages of Panama Hats,
231 U. S. 358.
A statute should also be read with reference to its
leading idea, and its predominant purpose will prevail
over the literal import of particular terms.
Even a cursory review of the various sections of this
act reveals in Congress a zealous regard for the uplift,
protection and emancipation of American seamen. The
legislation against "crimping" is but one of the many reforms, sought by this and earlier laws which throw light
on the meaning of this one.
If the act be regarded as strictly penal, Congress, under
the commerce clause, has ample authority to punish for
extra-territorial offenses. United States v. Craig, 28 Fed.
Rep. 795, 801; United States v. Gordon, 5 Blatchf. 18. See
The Belgenland, 114 U. S. 355; The Brantford City, 29
Fed. Rep. 373.
A comparison of the Dingley Act, of which the section
in question was an amendment, reveals that the words
now found in subsection (e) of the present act, "while in
water, of the United States," were not in the original
Dingley Act. It is a fair inference that Congress intended the new act to apply universally to American
vessels. See dissenting opinion in court below, 250 Fed.
Rep. 1.84.
Mr. Roscoe H. Hupper for respondents:
Under the Act of 1884 advances to seamen on shipment
on an American vessel in a foreign country were not
unlawful. The State of Maine, 22 Fed. Rep. 734; Patterson v. Bark Eudora, 190 U. S. 169
The amendment of 1915 did not change the law with
respect to advances in foreign ports, and some of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Respondents.

248 U. S.

changes made indicate more clearly than did the Act of
1884 that it was not intended to prohibit advances in
foreign ports. The only language in the 1915 section
which bears directly on locality of application is subdivision (e). The 1884 section provided: "This section
shall apply as well to foreign vessels as to vessels of the
United States."
The insertion in the 1915 section of the words "while
in waters of the United States" clearly got its impetus
from Patterson v. Bark Eudora, supra, which held that
a B ritish vessel while in waters of the United States was
subject to the prohibition against advances. The purpose of this insertion was to make it plain to foreign shipowners, particularly in view of the abrogation of treaties
provided for by the Act of 1915, that while their vessels
were in our ports, our statute against advances would
be applied to them. See The Ixion, 237 Fed. Rep. 142;
The London, 238 Fed. Rep. 645; affd. 241 Fed. Rep. 863.
This did not reflect an intention that as to American
vessels the prohibition against advances should appiy in
foreign countries.
If it be assumed that Congress could have intended by
this provision to make the prohibition apply to advances
in foreign countries, we find it hard to imagine any more
indirect or ambiguous method of effecting this. result.
The congressional debates and reports do not disclose
that Congress was acquainted with or had in mind advances made in foreign countries. Nor, so far as we have
been able to find, do they make any reference, to Judge
Brown's decision in The ,Stateof Maine, supra, or to the
conditions which gave rise to that case and this. It was
common knowledge, however, that foreign seaman's laws
differed from our own and in many instances permitted
advances, and undoubtedly for that reason it was deemed
prudent (and only courteous to foreign nations in view
of the proposed abrogation of treaties with respect to

NEILSON v. RHINE SHIPPING CO.
205.

Argument for Respondents.

seamen on foreign ships) to insert in the section a specific
declaration of the time, i. e., while they should be in
United States waters, that foreign ships would be subject
to this-section.
The very fact that our law applies to foreign vessels
while in our ports is one of the strongest arguments why
it should be held not to apply to our vessels while in
foreign ports. In other words, we should recognize the
law of foreign countries with respect to our vessels in
their ports, just as we expect foreign countries to recognize our law with respect to their vessels in our ports.
This but accords with the general doctrine that when a
merchant vessel of one country enters a port of another
for the purposes of trade it subjects itself to the law of
the place to which it goes. Wildenhus's Case, 120 U. S.
1, 11. The contracts between the ship and the seamen
as well as the advances were made on shore at Buenos
Ayres. "The general and almost universal rule is that
the character of the acts as lawful or unlawful must be
determined wholly by the law of the country where the
act is done." American Banana Co. v. United Fruit Co.,
213 U. S. 347, 356.
Questions concerning performance are governed by
the law of the place of performance, but questions concerning the making and validity of the contract are
governed by the law of the place where the contract is
made. Scudder v. Union National Bank, 91 ' U. S. 406.
The penal provisions of the section show that it was
not intended to apply to American vessels in foreign
countries.
The title of the Act of 1915 indicates no different purpose from that of the Act of 1884, and the provision with
respect to advance payments not being a defense is unchanged.
The 1884 section when amended and reenacted in 1915
carried with it into the 1915 section the interpretation

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument of United States as anicus curie.

248 U. S.

which had been given it by the courts and the executive
department of the government.
Advances made to seamen in foreign countries are
not against the public policy of the United States, and
cannot be nullified on that ground.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Brown, with whom
Mr. Robert Szold was on the brief, for the United States as
amicus curice:
Section 11 requires that in a libel for wages against an
American vessel advances paid by the American master
abroad shall not be treated as valid. It is submitted
that the rule of prior executive and judicial construction
is not applicable for various reasons.
The rule is not arbitrary. It affords a presumption
absence of countervailing evidence, but is
operative
of no availinwhere
the true legislative intent otherwise is
manifest. "It is not allowable to interpret what has no
need of interpretation." United States v. Graham, 110
U. S. 219, 221.
In the present case the environment in which the act
was passed and the legislative history demonstrate the
intent to cover all foreign-made advances by vessels,
foreign and domestic, coming into our ports. The prime
purpose to aid the merchant marine is otherwise defeated.
The Act of 1915, moreover, amended the statute which
had previously been construed, by words designed to do
away with any previous misconception.
It added the words "while in waters of the United
States" to qualify the words "foreign vessels." Thus,
the validity of the advance by foreigners abroad was not
sought to be affected, but only its recognition and enforcement in libels for wages in our courts against foreign
boats which come into our waters. By omitting the
qualifying words with reference to "vessels of the United
States," the actual' validity of the advance made abroad

NEILSON v. RHINE SHIPPING CO.
205.

Opinion of the Court.

by American masters was, however, touched. The decision in The State of Maine, 22 Fed. Rep. 734, disregards
the settled principle that the law governing the shipment
of seamen abroad is the law of the flag, and it disregards
also the requirements of Rev. Stats., § 4517. And a
custom of an executive department, however long continued, must yield to the positive language of a statute.
Houghton v. Payne, 194 U. S. 88, 100.
Congress may impose in its discretion conditions upon
the entry into American ports of American vessels as
well as of foreign vessels. The citizen has no more vested
right to engage in foreign trade without regard to legislative conditions, than the foreigner. Buttfield v. Stranahan,
192 U. S. 470; Weber v. Freed, 239 U. S. 325. The courts,
moreover, may apply the national law to determine the
validity of contracts made abroad between seaman and
master on national vessels. The Belgenland, 114 U. S.
355, 364; Hall, International Law, 6th ed., p. 199; United
States v. Rodgers, 150 U. S. 249.
The statutes of the United States have regulated the
payment of wages by American vessels to American seamen in foreign ports from the beginning.
MR. JUSTIcE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

These cases were considered together in the courts
below and may be disposed of in like manner here.
The facts are:
In the first case Paul Neilson and nine other seamen sue
for the recovery of wages claimed to be due them from the
bark "Rhine."
It appears that they shipped on the
American bark "Rhine" at Buenos Ayres, October 7,
1916, for a voyage to New York, at the rate of $25 per
month. It is stipulated that the shipping of seamen on
sailing vessels, at Buenos Ayres is controlled by certain
shipping masters, to one of whom the libelants, in ac-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

cordance with the usual custom and as a means of securing
employment, signed a receipt or advance note for one
month's wages. These advance notes were presented to
the American Vice-Consul at Buenos Ayres before the
libelants igned the articles, were by him noted on the
articles and, in the presence of the libelants, directed to
be paid on account of the wages of the respective libelants.
It was further stipulated that in directing the master of
the "Rhine" to honor such advance notes, the Consul was
acting in accordance with § 237 of the Consular Regulations of the United States. When the bark arrived at New
York the libelants were paid the wages earned, less the
$25 advanced. They now seek to recover the sum thus
deducted, by virtue of the terms of § 11 of the Act of
March 4, 1915, entitled "An Act To promote the welfare
of American seamen in the merchant marine of the
United
States," upon the theory that such advances are unlawful and of no effect.
The facts in relation to the case of the Barkentine
"Windrush" differ from the above only in respect of the
fact that the advance notes are not in evidence, but are
noted on the articles.
.The District Court decided in favor of the libelants.
244 Fed. Rep. 833. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed
the decrees. 250 Fed. Rep. 180. The cases are here on
writs of certiorari.
The section of the statute is the same as that involved in
the case of The Talus [Sandberg v. McDonald], No. 392,
ante, 185. The difference is that the advances were
made by the master of an American vessel in a South
American port, whereas in The Talus the advancements
were made to foreign seamen in a British port. The same
general considerations as to the interpretation of the
statute which controlled in "the decision of the case of
The Talus are applicable here and need not be repeated.
That American vessels might be controlled by con-

NEILSON v. RHINE SHIPPING CO.
205

McKENNA, HOLMES, BRANDEIS,

and

CLARKE,

JJ., dissenting.

gressional legislation as to contracts made in foreign ports
may, for present purposes at least, be conceded. It appears that only by compliance with the local custom of
obtaining seamen through agents can American vessels
obtain seamen in South American ports. This is greatly
to be deplored, and the custom is one which works much
hardship to a worthy class. But we are unable to discover
that in passing this statute Congress intended to place
American shipping at the great disadvantage of this
inability to obtain seamen when compared with the vessels
of other nations which are manned by complying with
local usage.
The statute itself denies clearance papers to vessels
violating its terms. This provision could only apply to
domestic ports and is another evidence of the intent of
Congress to legislate as to advances made in our own
ports.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSrICE MCKENNA, with whom concur MR. JusHoLMEs, MR. JusTIcE BlNDEis and MR. JUSTICE
CL&RKE, dissenting.
TiCE

These cases were submitted with Nos. 361 [Dillon v.
Strathearn S. S. Co., ante, 182,] and 392, [Sandberg v.
McDonald, ante, 185,j and, like them, are proceedings
in admiralty under the Seamen's Act of 1915, 38 Stat.
1164-1168.
The facts are set out in the opinion of the court. In
these cases, as in others, we are constrained to dissent.
The principle of decision shduld be, we think, that declared in our dissent in The Talus, ante, 185. The
facts of these cases put more tension upon it, that is, an
adhesion to the words of the statute as determinative
of its purpose rather than some of its consequences.
We have here the somewhat appealing force of a picture

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
MCKENNA, HOLMES, BRANDEIS, and CLARKE, JJ., dissenting. 248 U. S.

of an American ship only able to escape practical internment in a foreign port by a violation of the law, if it be
as we have declared it. And this under the sanction of
the United States Consul acting under the following regulation of the Department of State:
"237. Advances to Seamen Shipped in Foreign Ports.-The shipment of seamen in foreign ports cannot be considered as within the intention, and hence not within
the proper construction, of the Act referred to in the
next preceding paragraph [inserted in the margin].'
The final clause of the Act, which declares that this
section shall apply as well to foreign vessels as to those
of the United States, and that in case of violation a
clearance shall be refused them, is a clear indication that
Congress did not in this section refer to the shipment
of seamen in foreign ports, but had in view acts done
in the United States alone. The provision of the statute
as to payment of advance wages is not intended to apply
to seamen shipped in foreign ports. In the settlement of
wages due seamen in such cases, therefore, consular
officers will take into account what has been paid in
advance. 22 Fed. Rep. 734."
No Advance Wages.-Except in case of whaling vessels,
it is not lawful to pay any seaman wages before leaving the port at
which such seaman may be engaged in advance of the time when he
has actually earned the same, or to pay such advance wages to any
other person, or to pay to any one except an officer authorized by
Act of Congress to collect fees for such service, any remuneration for
the shipment of a seaman. If any such advance wages or remuneration shall have been paid or contracted for, the Consul, 'in making up
the account of wages due the seaman upon his discharge, will disregard
such advance payment or agreement and award to the seaman the
amount to which he would be entitled if no such payment or agreement
had been made. Nor should Consuls permit the statute tWf be evaded
indirectly, as by part payment in advance and then stating rate of
wages too small. R. S., §§ 4532, 4533; 23 Stat. L. 55, § 10; 24 Id. 80,
§ 3; 27 Fed. Rep. 764."
1"236.

INTERNAT'L NEWS SERV. v. ASSO. PRESS.

215

Syllabus.

205.

We are unable to assent. We regard the act of Congress
as clear and that the theatre of its injunction is the harbors of the United States. It is misleading to dwell upon
the jurisdiction of other places, which is but another
name for control. The jurisdiction, control, is in and by
the United States and the command is that advances
shall not be deducted from wages of seamen on vessels,
American or foreign, while in the waters of the United
States. Where they were made or under what circumstances made are not factors in judgment. They are
the mere accidents of the situation and if they reach the
importance and have the eribarrassment depicted by
counsel, the appeal must be to Congress, which no doubt
will promptly correct the improvidence, if it be such, of
its legislation. We have already expressed our view Qf
the control of the language of the law and that it is a
barrier against alarms and fault-finding.
It hence follows that we are of opinion the judgment of
the Circuit Court of Appeals in each case should be reversed and that of the District Court affirmed.

INTERNATIONAL NEWS SERVICE v. THE ASSOCIATED PRES
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 221.

Argued May 2, 3, 1918.-Decided December 23, 1918.

An incorporated association of proprietors and representatives of
many newspapers, engaged in gathering news and distributing
it to its. members for publication, is a proper party to represent
them in a suit to protect their interests in news so collected against
the illegal acts of a'rival organization. Equity Rule, 38. P. 233.
The right to object to the non-joinder of parties may be treated as.

