BANK OF CALIFORNIA v. ROBERTS.
476.

Counsel for Parties.

of the tax upon the share of the stockholder (affirmed upon
another ground, 191 U. S. 272). And in Amoskeag Savings
Bank v. Purdy, 231 U. S. 373, we sustained a tax imposed
upon a shareholder under a statute that, while not exempting the real estate of the bank situate in the same
State, allowed no deduction of its value in the computation of the taxable value of the shares.
It seems to me that to allow a deduction from the
taxable value of national bank shares because the bank
happens to hold stock in another national bank is not
only contrary to the clear intent of ยง 5219, but is inconsistent with all previous decisions of this court bearing
upon the point, especially those that have denied a similar
deduction because of tax-exempt securities held by the
bank, or because of real estate taxed against it.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS and MR. JUSTICE CLARKE con-

cur in this dissent.

BANK OF CALIFORNIA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, v. ROBERTS, TREASURER OF THE STATE
OF CALIFORNIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 115.

Submitted December 19, 1918.-Decided January 27, 1919.

Decided on authority of Bank of Californiav. Richardson, ante, p. 476.
173 California, 398, reversed.

Mr. E. S. Pillsbury, Mr. F. D. Madison, Mr. Alfred
Sutro and Mr. Oscar Sutro for plaintiff in error. Mr. A.
D. Plaw was also on the brief.
Mr. U. S. Webb, Attorney General of the State of
California, and Mr. Raymond Benjamin, Chief Deputy

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

248 U. S.

Attorney General of the State of California, for defendant
in error.
Per Curiam: This case is controlled by the opinion
in Bank of Californiav. Richardson, ante, p. 476. Indeed,
it was submitted without briefs upon the briefs filed in that
ease. For the reasons stated*in the previous case, therefore, the judgment here must be reversed and the case
remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with
this opinion.
Reversed.

PIERCE OIL CORPORATION v. CITY OF HOPE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.
No. 137.

Submitted January 16, 1919.-Decided January 27, 1919.

A city ordinance forbidding the storage 'of petroleum and gasoline
within 300 feet of any dwelling, beyond certain small quantities, is
within the state police power.
So held, where storage of those substances in tankswas necessary to a
company's business of selling them, and the plant could not be moved
without expense and loss of profits.
The fact that th' tanks were moved to their present position at the
city's request did not import a coatact not to require further removal for the'public welfare; nor would such a contract be effective.
Where it 'cannot be aided by judicial notice, an averment that an
ordinance is unnecessary and unreasonable is too general and is not
admitted by a demurrer.
Allegations designed to show that petroleum and gasoline were so
stored as not to endanger any buildings and that explosion was
impossible, though conceding the possibility of some combustion,
held insufficient on demurrer to exclude the danger of explosion of
which the court might take judicial notice.
127 Arkansas, 38, affirmed,

THE case is stated in the opinion.

