OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Petitioner.

248 U. S.

UNION FISH COMPANY v. ERICKSON.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 76.

Submitted November 22, 1918.-Decided January 7, 1919.

By a contract made orally in California, respondent was engaged to go
to Alaska and there for one year to serve as master of petitioner's
vessel, zaa ily upon the sea. The respondent libeled the vessel in
'the District Court in California for breach of the contract. Held,
that the c6ntract was maritime, and that the California statute of
fraud requiring a writing for agreements not to be performed within
a year was therefore inapplicable in defense. P. 312.
235 Fed. Rep. 385, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. G. S. Arnold and Mr. William Denman for petitioner:
The California< statute, Civil Code, § 1624, ,made the
contract invalid; it did not affect merely procedure, like
the corresponding portion of 29 Charles II, c. 3, par. 4.
The contract, therefore, was everywhere unenforceable,
unless a State is powerless to make any maritime contract,
though entered into within her limits, invalid. Leroux v.
Brown, 12 C. B. 801; David Lupton's Sons Co. v. Automobile Club, 225 U, S. 489; Buhl v. Stephens, 84 Fed. Rep.
922; Allens v. Schuchardt, Fed. Cas. No. 236; affd. 1
Wall. 359; Scudder v. Union National Bank, 91 U. S.
406, 413; Minor, Conflict of Laws, §§ 173, 210.
The decision in Workman v. New York City, 179 U. S.
552, (cf. s. c., 63 Fed. Rep. 298; 67 Fed. Rep. 347,) was
not revolutionary. It merely applied well-settled prinCiples, holding that in admiralty, as in equity, the federal
cour.fs will not be bound by decisions of state courts.

UNION FISH CO. v. ERICKSON.
308.

Argument for Petitioner.

It must primarily be carried in mind that that action
involved a tort and not a contract, and that the state law
overridden was simply the common-law principles laid
down in the state courts. All the decisions relied on (save
Liverpool & Great Western Steam Co. v. Phenix Insurance
Co., 129 U. S. 397, 443,) were cases of procedure or jurisdiction, not passing upon the validity of any contract enforced
in admiralty but concerned only with the powers of the
States to regulate the admiralty courts. Naturally the
States have no such power or the federal jurisdiction in
admiralty would be carried on subject to the approval of
the States. Admittedly, no state statute can regulate the
jurisdiction or practice of the United States courts in
equity, Payne v. Hook, 7 Wall. 425, 430; or in admiralty,
The Lottawanna, 21 Wall. 558. The federal courts in admiralty, (as in equity,) are not governed by the state statutes of limitation. The Key City, 14 Wall. 653, 660; Sullivan v. Ellis, 219 Fed. Rep. 694, 698. A State cannot affect
the application of the Limited Liability Act in' admiralty.
Butler v. Boston & Savannah S. S. Co., 130 U. S. 527, 557.
Contributory negligence does not wholly bar recovery in
admiralty. The Max Morris, 137 U. S. 1. And the admiralty court will determine the priority of maritime liens
upon maritime principles. The J. E. Rumbell, 148 U. S. 1.
(As pointed out in The Lottawanna, the constitutionality
of the Limited Liability Act was sustained not under the
admiralty clause but under the commerce clause. Lord
v. Steamship Co., 102 U. S. 541, 545. As a valid act under
the commerce clause, no state legislation could limit its
operation. This is equally true of any valid federal act
which regulates commerce, such as the Federal Employers'
Liability Act of 1910. Seaboard Air Line Ry. Co. v. Horton, 233 U. S. 492, 501; Moss v. Gulf Compress Co., 202
Fed. Rep. 657, 661.)
The rule that the federal courts are not bound by decisions of state courts upon questions of general juris-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Petitioner.

248 U. S.

prudence or general commercial law has always been
recognized. As stated in Liverpool & Great WesteSteam Co. v. Phenix Insurance Co., 129 U. S. 397,, .o,
this principle applies only to state court decisions and
does not apply to statutes. But if a State legislates
regarding a matter of general commercial law, the federal courts necessarily are bound by the statute enacted. Smith v. Nelson Land & Cattle Co., 212 Fed. Rep.
56, 59.
The case of Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244 U. S.
205, is not inconsistent with the power of the State to
regulate, in the absence of legislation by Congress, maritime contracts, so far at least as to prescribe the formal
requirements necessary to the validity of such contracts.
The reasoning of both the majority and dissenting opinions confirms this power. That the admiralty courts are
bound to respect state statutes of the character here
involved had been clearly enunciated some time before
in The Hamilton, 207 U. S. 398, 405. See also The
Harrisburg, 119 U. S. 199; The Lottawanna, 21 Wall.
558.
Under the similar power expressed in the interstate
commerce clause, the federal courts have always held
that where state statutes are local in their nature and
Congress has not acted, the statutes are valid and will be
enforced in the federal courts. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co.
v. Baugh, 149 U. S. 368. But to sustain the present decision, the conclusion must be reached that the power of
Congress is exclusive, and that all state statutes regulating
maritime contracts are void in admiralty.
If the California statute, prescribing the formalities
necessary to the validity of a contract executed within
her borders, will not be enforced in admiralty, it follows
that the State is without power effectually to legislate with
regard to maritime contracts at all, since the statutory
rfgulation of maritime contracts necessarily involves the

UNION FISH CO. v, ERICKSON.
.308.

Opinion of the Court.

invalidity of contracts not executed in conformity with the
statute. To take away the power of a State to regulate
maritime contracts seems a clear denial of the principle
stated by the Supreme Court in enforcing in admiralty a
state pilotage statute. Ex parte McNeil, 13 Wall. 236,
243.
As has been pointed out the courts have gone no further
in making clear the inviolability of admiralty than they
have of federal equity jurisdiction. Yet courts of equity
constantly enforce state statutes of frauds. See such cases
as Kennedy v. Bates, 142 Fed. Rep. 51; Horton v. Steg-meyer, 175 Fed. Rep. 756; Ducie v. Ford, 138 U. S. 587.
If the California statute, prescribing general rules for all
contracts, and applying only incidentally to maritime
contracts, executed within her borders, infringes upon the
judicial section of the Constitution when it is applied to
maritime affairs, then so much the more must state statutes directly affecting maritime matters-marine insurance contracts, materialmen's liens, pilotage and many
other subjects-infringe upon federal powers,
Mr. Charles J. Heggerty for respondent. Mr. F. R. Wall
was also on the brief.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
Erickson filed a libel in admiralty in the District Court
of the United States for the Northern District of California,
alleging that by an oral contract with the petitioner,
owner of the vessel "Martha," he engaged to proceed to
Pirate Cove, Alaska, and after arrival there to serve for a
year as master of the vessel, and perform certain duties
in connection therewith for an agreed compensation. The
libel averred that he proceeded to Pirate Cove, and performed his duties under the contract until he was wrongfully discharged by the respondent. Libelant sought to

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

recover damages for breach of contract. An answer was
filed denying the alleged contract, and averring that
libelant was discharged because of his wrongful conduct.
A decree was rendered in favor of libelant in the District Court; upon appeal that decree was affirmed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals. 235 Fed. Rep. 385.
The question presented and argued here concerns the
application of the California Statute of Frauds, which
it is alleged rendered the contract void because not to be
performed within one year from the making thereof. The
Civil Code of California provides: Section 1624. "The
following contracts are invalid, unless the same, or some
note or memorandum thereof, is in writing and subscribed by the party to be charged, or by his agent:
"1. An agreement that by its terms is not to be performed within a year from the making thereof."
The contract of the master was of a maritime character.
This does not seem to be controverted by the petitioner.
(See The Boston, 3 Fed. Cas. 921, Cas. No. 1669; The
William H. Hoag, 168 U. S.443.) We have, then, a maritime contract for services to be performed principally
upon the sea, and the question is can such engagement be
nullified by the local laws of a State, where the contract
happens to be entered into, so as to prevent its enforcement in an admiralty court of the United States?
The Constitution (Article III, § 2) extends the judicial
power of the United States to all cases of admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction. Admiralty jurisdiction under
the Federal Constitution "embraces," says Mr. Justice
Story in his treatise on the Constitution, "two great
classes of cases,-one dependent upon locality, and the
other upon the nature of the contract.", In the latter
class are embraced "contracts, claims, and services purely
maritime, and touching. ights and duties appertaining
to' commerce and navigation." Story on the Constitution, 4th ed., § 1666.

UNION FISH CO. v. ERICKSON.
308.

Opinion of the Court.

This court has had occasion to consider the nature and
extent of admiralty jurisdiction as it was intended to be
conferred by the Constitution. In The Lottawanna, 21
Wall. 558, the subject was much considered, and Mr.
Justice Bradley, speaking for the court, said:
"One thing, however, is unquestionable; the Constitution must have referred to a system of law coextensive
with, and operating uniformly in, the whole country. It
certainly could not have been the intention to place the
rules and limits of maritime law under the disposal and
regulation of the several States."
This principle was reiterated in Workman v. New York
City, 179 U. S. 552. In that case it was declared that
neither local law nor decisions could deprivc of redress
where a cause of action, maritime in its nature, was prosecuted in a court of admiralty of the United States. (179
U. S.560.)
In the recent case of Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244

U. S.205, the subject was again considered and the cases
in this court reviewed, and state legislation was declared
invalid "if it . . . works material prejudice to the
characteristic features of the general maritime law or
interferes with the proper harmony and uniformity of that
law in its international and interstate relations." (244
U. S.216.)

In entering into this contract the parties contemplated
no services in California. They were making an engagement for the services of the master of the vessel, the duties
to be performed in the waters of Alaska, mainly upon the
sea. The maritime law controlled in this respect, and-was
not subject to limitation because the particular engagement happened to be made in California. The parties
must be presumed to have had in contemplation the
system of maritime law under which it was made.- Watts
v. Camors, 115 U. S.353, 362.
In different countries the appointment of masters of

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

248 U. S.

vessels has been the subject of maritime law which has
directed the conduct of "those who pursue commerce
and, put to sea." Their duties and qualifications have
been the subject of regulation by the recognized principles of admiralty law. Benedict's Admiralty, 4th ed.,
§ 146. They are regulated by statutes enacted under
federal authority. See U. S. Comp. Stats. of 1916, vol. 12,
Index "Masters of Vessels."
If one State may declare such contracts void for one
reason, another may do likewise for another. Thus the
local law of a State may deprive one of relief in a case
brought in a court of admiralty of the United States upon
a maritime contract, and the uniformity of rules governing
such contracts may be destroyed by perhaps conflicting
rules of the States.
We think the Circuit Court of Appeals correctly held
that this contract was maritime in its nature and an action
in admiralty thereon for its breach could not be defeated
by the statute of California relied upon by the petitioner.
Affirmed.

FISHER v. RULE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 78. Argued November 22, 1918.-Decided January 7, 1919.
To initiate a right under the homestead act a minor's application must
show that he is the head of a family; and a general assertion that he is
* such, by reason of having adopted a minor child, but without stating
the time, place or mode of adoption, or identifying the child, is insufficient for this purpose. P. 317.
When the Secretary of the Interior, after canceling a final homestead entry, has ordered a suspension of all action under the decision

