CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
IN EQUITY.

No. 3, Original. Argued January 20, 23, 24,.25, 26, 1911.-Decided
March 6, 1911.
A suit brought by one State against another, formed by its consent
from its territory, to determine what proportion the latter should
pay of indebtedness of the former at the time of separation, is a
quasi-international controversy and should be considered in an untechnical spirit. In such a controversy there is no municipal code
governing the matter and this court may be called on to adjust differences that cannot be dealt with by Congress or disposed of by
the legislature of either State alone.
A State is superior to the forms that it may require of its citizens; and
where a part of a State separates and is created into a new State,
a contract can be created by the constitutive ordinance of the parent
State followed by the creation of the contemplated State.
A provision of the constitution of a new State, which is not addressed
solely to those who are to be subject to its provisions, but is intended
to be understood by the parent State and by Congress as embodying a just term which conditions the parent's consent, amounts to
a contract.
In this case, the ordinance of Virginia, the constitution of West Virginia, and the act of Congress admitting West Virginia into the
Union, when taken together, establish a contract that West Virginia
will pay her share of the debt of Virginia existing at the time of
separation.
VOL. CCXX-1
(1)

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

220 U. S.

Where all expenditures for which the debt of a State is created have
the ultimate good of the whole State in view, the whole StAte, and
not the particular locality in which the improvements are made,.
should equally bear the burden; and so held in apportioning the
debt of Virginia between that State and West Virginia, that the latter should bear its share of the debt so created.
Provisions in the constitution of one State which is a party to a contract with another State cannot be taken as the sole guide to determine obligations under the contract.
What is just and equitable under a contract between States is a judicial questioq within the competence of this tribunal to decide.
A State may, by suit in this court, enforce against another State a contract in the performance of which the honor and credit of the plaintiff State is concerned. New Hampshire v. Louisiana, 108 U. S. 76,
distinguished.
The liability assumed by West Virginia to bear a fair proportion of the
debt of Virginia is a deep-seated equity not discharged by the fact
that the creditors of Virginia may have released that State from
the obligation of the portion to be assumed by West Virginia as
ultimately determined; and Virginia may maintain a suit in this
court to determine the liability of West Virginia even if the proceeds
are to be applied to those holding certificates on which Virginia is
no longer liable.
In apportioning the debt of Virginia between that State and West Virginia, the court rejects other methods proposed and adopts the ratio
determined by the master's estimated valuation of real and personal
property of the two States at the date of separation.
The value of slaves is properly excluded from such valuation.
There are many elements to be. considered in determining the liability
for interest by a newly created State on its share of the debt of the
parent State, and this court will, before passing on that question in
a suit of this nature, afford the parties an opportunity to adjust it
between themselves.
A suit between States to apportion debt is a quasi-international controversy involving the honor and constitutional obligation of great
States, which have a temper superior to that of private litigants;
and, when this court has decided enough, patriotism, fraternity of.
the Union and mutual consideration should bring the controversy
to an end.

THE facts, which involve the adjustment between- Virginia and West Virginia of the debt of Virginia at the time

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
220 U. S.

Argument for Virginia.

of the formation of the State of West Virginia, are stated
in the opinion.
Mr. Samuel W. Williams, Attorney General of Virginia,
Mr. William A. Anderson, Mr. Randolph Harrisonand Mr.
John B. Moon for Virginia:
The insistance of Virginia has been, and is, that West
Virginia should be charged with an equitable proportion
of the debt, to be ascertained under the Wheeling ordinance construed so as not to defeat the expressed controlling purpose of its enactment, and qualified and ruled
by the provisions of Article VIII of the West Virginia
constitution, upon which the consent of the legislature of
Virginia and of the Congress of the United States to the
formation of the new State was predicated.
Agreeably to the decision of this court in its opinion,
delivered by the late Chief Justice, the view of Virginia is,
and has been, that the ordinance and the provisions of the
West Virginia constitution, should be read as being in pari
materia; but that the constitutional provision, being the
latest, must prevail, if, and whenever there is any conflict between them.
Under paragraph 1 of the master's report, the public
debt of the Commonwealth of Virginia as of January 1,
1861, is ascertained to be $33,897,073.82. The only controverted questions which have arisen under this paragraph have been as to the inclusion of the bonds of the
Commonwealth, held by her Sinking Fund Board, and
her Literary Fund Board, as part of the public debt.
Virginia withdraws her objections to the master's action in
excluding these bonds from the amount of the public debt.
Under paragraph 2 of the master's report, "the extent
and assessed valuation of the territory of Virginia and of
West Virginia, June 20, 1863, and the population thereof,
with and without slaves, separately," as ascertained and
reportdd by the master, are acceptable to Virginia.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Virginia.

220 U. S.

Under paragraph 3 of the master's report, he has reported "all expenditures made by the Commonwealth of
Virginia within the territory now constituting the State
of West Virginia, since any part of the debt was contracted."
This is one of the accounts which is called for under
§ 9 of the Wheeling ordinance. The only questions to be
considered in determining whether any particular expenditure made during, that period should be charged
against West Virginia, are: First, Was it made by Virginia, and Second, Was the money expended in West
Virginia? The expenditures made in West Virginia in the
construction of the Covington & Ohio Railroad, amounting to $1,146,460.42, are allowed by the master, but this
allowance is objected to by West Virginia on the ground
that by reason of the public acts and transactions of
Virginia and West Virginia, in reference to this railroad,
Virginia has lost her right to have those expenditures
charged against West Virginia.
The Wheeling ordinance prescribed the basis on which
the proportion of the Virginia debt to be assumed by
West Virginia was to be ascertained and vested in the
new State the ownership of the portion of the Covington
& Ohio Railroad located in Virginia, and there is nothing
in the concurrent acts of the two States, in reference to
the Covington & Ohio Railroad, which repeals or modifies the provisions of that ordinance.
The master rejected, as proper charges against West
Virginia, all expenditures made by Virginia in West Virginia territory in the construction of works of internal
improvement located in West Virginia, but built through
the agency of joint stock companies.
The master erred in the rejection of those items of the
account against West Virginia. Paragraph 3 of the decree, closely following the terms of the Wheeling ordinance, directs the master to ascertain and report "all

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
220 U. S.

Argument for Virginia.

expenditures made by the Commonwealth of Virginia
within the territory now constituting West Virginia."
The ground relied on for excluding these items from the
debit account against West Virginia is, because of the
manner in which the expenditures were made; that is, because they were not made by the State direct'y, through
her own officers or employs, but were made through the
medium of joint stock companies. There is no such
qualification of the expenditures which are tc be charged,
either in the decree or in the ordinance. The words
"direct" or "indirect " are not found in either the decree
or in the ordinance. No such classification is to be found
in either the decree or in the ordinance.
The view which is here urged as to the expenditures of
the Commonwealth in works of internal improvement
constructed in West Virginia territory, and as to the
classification of such of those expenditures as were made
through the agency of joint stock companies, is the view
heretofore consistently taken by the representatives of
West Virginia most familiar with the subject. The construction of the Wheeling ordinance in respect to the expenditures made by Virginia,. thiough, the agency of -joint
stock companies in the territory of West Virginia and
adopted by public officials of West Virginia, remained
unchallenged for more than a generation, and until this
case, when this new and forced construction is attempted
to be placed upon the Wheeling ordinance. We submit
that this construction is not warranted, arid that there is
no authority for the master, under the language of the
decree, which requires a report of all expenditures, to
classify expenditures as ."direct" and "indirect."
Thle fourth paragraph of the decree directs the master
to ascertain "such proportion f The ordinary expenses of.
the government of Virginia, since any of said debt was"
contracted, as was properly assignable to the counties
which were -created into the State of West Virginia oin the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Virginia.

220 U. S.

basis of the average total population of Virginia, with or
without slaves, as shown by the census of the United
States."
This inquiry is manifestly predicated upon the language
of the Wheeling ordinance, which provides that the new
State shall be charged with "a just proportion of the
ordinary expense of the state government, since any part
of the said debt was contracted."
Nor are the ordinary expenses of a state government
merely those which are necessary and regular in their occurrence, but quite as largely such as are usual, though
not periodical, and such as are appropriate though not
essential to the needs and aspirations of an enlightened
and progressive people, and as are lawful.
In a modern State, and- particularly in a State of the
American Union, caring for, conserving and promoting
the economic and material, as well as the social, sanitary,
physical, intellectual and moral welfare of its people,
many expenditures which may not be regarded as strictly
governmental, and some which may not be absolutely
necessary, are proper, lawful, usual and ordinary.
Under the decree the master was directed to ascertain and report "such proportion of the ordinary expenses of the government of Virginia since any of the
debt was contracted, as was properly assignable to the
counties which were created into the State of West Virginia, on the basis of the 'fair estimated valuation of the
property, real and personal, by counties, of the State of
Virginia."
This paragraph is clearly in the alternative with the
last clause of paragraph 4. The land assessments in Virginia were made in 1856, seven years before June, 1863,
at which latter date at least four-fifths of the present
territory of Virginia and one-fifth of the present territory
of West Virginia had been ravaged and desolated by war,
so that the valuation in 1856 afforded no just measure of

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
220 U. S.

Argument for Virginia.

value in 1863. The lands were assessed as of their cash
value in 1856. The personal property in Virginia counties
was assessed annually on the first of February of each
year, as of its then value, in the currency which then
constituted the medium of exchange and the standard of
value. The currency in 1863, with reference to which, .as
a standard of value, all their transactions were conducted
was the depreciated currency of the Confederate States.
The market values of all property, real and personal, in
Confederate Virginia, was, throughout 1863, fictitiously
enhanced by reason of the depreciation of the currency in
circulation in those regions, in which currency alone those
values were measured. The uncontradicted evidence in
the case shows that the depreciation in value extended not
only to slaves, but to all personal property, and was at
least fifty per cent as a minimum.
The sixth paragraph of the decree directs the master
to ascertain all money paid into the treasury of the
Commonwealth from the counties included within the
State of West Virginia during the period prior to the admission of the latter State into the Union.
The defendant objects to the master's findings under
this head because he fails to give West Virginia credit for
certain items.
The master's findings upon these items is evidently
justified by the facts, and is consistent with the language
of the decree and of the Wheeling ordinance.
The amounts received by Virginia upon the accounts
and items objected to by defendant, particularly the dividends upon bank stock, were in no sense money paid into
the treasury of the Commonwealth from the counties included in the State of West Virginia. They were profits
earned by Virginia's own money which she had invested
in fiscal institutions, and not money paid to Virginia
from West Virginian counties, within the meaning or
within the reason bf the sixth paragraph of the decree, or

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Virginia.

220 U. S.

of the ninth section of the Wheeling ordinance, on which
that paragraph is based.
The seventh paragraph of the decree directs an account
ascertaining "the amount and value of all money, property, stocks and credits which West Virginia received from
the Commonwealth of Virginia, not embraced in any of the
preceding items, and not including any property, stocks
or credits which were obtained or acquired by the Commonwealth after the date of the organization of the restored government of Virginia, together with the nature
and description thereof."
This direction of the decree was doubtless given in
response to the provisions of §§ 1, 2 and 5 of the act of the
Wheeling legislature passed February 3, 1863. There were
large amounts of property, chiefly unappropriated, abandoned, and delinquent and forfeited lands to which the
Commonwealth had title, which passed to the new State
by the said act of the Wheeling legislature and with the
value of which property West Virginia was chargeable by
the terms of that act, upon such settlement as should be
had between the two States.
It was found to be impracticable to obtain satisfactory
evidence of the disposition which had been made by the
new State of large quantities of land, delinquent and forfeited to the Commonwealth prior to June, 1863. So
that the only charges made by Virginia under the seventh
paragraph of the decree are for money and bank stocks
actually received by West Virginia from Virginia, after
the formation of the new State in 1863 and 1864.
West Virginia received from the Commonwealth
amounts aggregating $170,771.46, as assented to and
certified by the accountants of both parties, and is reported by the master at page 181 at his report. Under
these circumstances it is difficult to understand upon what
ground the master excluded these items amounting to
$170,771.46, as to which the facts are unquestionable.

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
220 U. S.

Argument for Virginia.

These sums of money were undoubtedly received by the
new from the old State. At that time the officials of the
restored government of Virginia were West Virginians.
That government dominated by West Virginians and the
new State of West Virginia could appropriate and take
out of the treasury of the State of Virginia at Wheeling,
whatever it chose, and it did undoubtedly receive from
the restored government of Virginia $170,771.46 for
which sum it is properly chargeable.
What should West Virginia pay? What is West Virginia's share of the debt?
There can be no question but that the provisions of
Article 8, § 8 of the West Virginia constitution, the act
of Virginia and the act of Congress created a compact,
and that the provisions of the constitution constituted an
essential stipulation and condition upon which the consent
of the legislature of Virginia to the creation of the new
State was predicated. The Congress of the United States
would never have given its consent to the partition of
Virginia, and the erection of the new State out of her
domain, but for the fact that the new State had undertaken to assume an equitable proportion of the then existing debt of the Commonwealth of Virginia, and pay the
same with interest thereon.
As to the liability of West Virginia for interest; the
contract here considered was a Virginia contract. Under
the law of Virginia as repeatedly adjudicated by her
highest court, the interest is incident to the obligation,
and whenever a debt is due the debtor is bound to pay
interest unless relieved from this obligation by agreement. "The interest follows the principal as the shadow
does the substance." The decisions of the highest court
in West Virginia are in accord with the decisions of the
Virginia courts. This rule is applied in Virginia to debts
due by the Commonwealth. The framers of the Wheeling
ordinance must be presumed to have drawn that instru-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Bondholding Creditors.

220 U. S.

ment with reference to the principle of equity and justice
which had then and long before that time been embodied
in the laws of Virginia by the repeated decisions of her
highest courts.
The language of the Wheeling ordinance is that "The
new State shall take upon herself a just proportion of the
public debt of the Commonwealth of Virginia, prior to the
first day of January, 1861," etc.
The debt of Virginia therein referred to.was an interestbearing debt. It Was evidenced by the bonds of the Commonwealth, all of which, by the express terms of the
obligations, bore interest, payable in the future.
The stipulation of West Virginia expressed in her constitution and accepted and acted upon by Virginia, was
that West Virginia would pay the accruing interest on her
share of the debt, as it should accrue, and the principal
thereof within thirty-four years.
The claim of Virginia is that West Virginia is bound
both by the terms of the Wheeling ordinance and of her
first constitution to pay a just and equitable part of this
debt, with interest thereon until the same shall be fully
paid, and that she shall not be suffered to repudiate either
obligation.
Mr. Holmes Conrad, counsel for the bondholding creditors, appearing as amicus curice:
Counsel for bondholders dissents from the views expressed in the briefs and arguments of the Attorneys General of Virginia and West Virginia, respectively, as to the
validity and application here of the ninth section of the
Wheeling ordinance.
1. The ninth section of the ordinance was not "the
basis upon which the consent' of the Commonwealth of
Virginia was given to the formation of the new State."
Such ninth section was never, for one instant of time,
recognized by any convention or legislature as having

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
220 U. S.

Argument for Bondholding Creditors.

any binding force upon either State or person, and that
as a proposition made by Virginia to West Virginia it was
never accepted by the latter State.
2. The ninth section was not "a stipulation imposed
by Virginia upon West Virginia as a condition upon
which her consent was given and which was afterwards
accepted and assented to by the people of West Virginia."
3. It was not "a contractual or a fundamental provision, and it did not constitute a primary obligation, or lie
at the foundation of the right of West Virginia to be a
State."
West Virginia became a State by being admitted into
the Union by the Congress of the United States, upon the
consent, first obtained, of the restored State of Virginia,
and such consent, in its express terms, referred to the constitution framed for West Virginia, and did not by expression or implication refer to the ordinance or to any of its
provisions.
4. The "basis of settlement prescribed by the Wheeling
ordinance," whether taken alone or in connection with
any legislation or constitutional provision, was never
binding " on both States" or on either State.
It was not referred to in the case of Virginia v. West
Virginia, 11 Wall. 39, and, as shown by Mr. Faulkner,
the counsel for West Virginia in that case, had no relevancy or connection with the line of argument taken by
either the counsel or the court in that case.
The bondholding creditors, whose interests this court
has allowed to be represented here, are creditors of Virginia and of West Virginia alike. They are not formal
parties to this cause, but their interests are fully recognized and secured by the several acts of the General Assembly of Virginia, which form part of this record, and
under which Virginia has received and holds the bonds
deposited by them, as a trustee, as to the unfunded onethird of the amounts of such bonds.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Bondholding Creditors.

220 U. S.

On the part of the bondholding creditors, it is insisted
that the only just and reasonable plan for ascertaining
the proportion of the debt proper to be borne by West
Virginia, is that stated and approved by the writers on
international or public law, and which was adopted by this
court, in its opinion, delivered by Mr. Justice Field, in
Hartman v. Greenhow, 102 U. S. 672.
Both on the ground of international law, and on the
express provision of the constitution of the State, under
which Congress admitted it into the Union, the liability
of West Virginia, for an equitable proportion of the public
debt of Virginia, appears to be inevitable.
The bonds evidencing the public debt of Virginia, prior
to the first day of January, 1861, and deposited by the
holders thereof, with the Commonwealth of Virginia,
under the provisions of the several funding acts, were not
cancelled or extinguished as to the one-third of the amount
thereof, estimated to be the equitable proportion of such
debt to be borne by the State of West Virginia.
The Commonwealth of Virginia has never been discharged from liability on the bonds issued by her prior to
January 1, 1861, except as to the extent of the two-thirds
of the amount thereof for which amount the holders surrendered them, as to such two-thirds, and received in lieu
thereof the new bonds of the Commonwealth.
The Wheeling ordinance, as shown by its title, was "to
provide for the formation of a new State, out of a portion
of the territory of this State." All of its sections, except
the ninth, were directed to that efid. The State was
formed when its constitution was framed and adopted by
its people. The ordinance then became functus officio,
and ceased to have any operation. The ninth section, as
contended by counsel for West Virginia, was a proposition
made by Virginia and tendered to West Virginia.
West Virginia's time for accepting it, was when she wasassembled in convention in November, 1861; then,' and

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
220 U. S.

Argument for Bondholding Creditors.

only then, while she was framing her constitution could
she have signified her acceptance of the proposition, by
embodying it in her constitution. She did not embody it.
She embodied something altogether different, and made
no reference to the ninth section of the Wheeling ordinance.
A "plan by which the new State should ascertain her
just proportion of the public debt of Virginia" was not a
matter as to which the parent State, Virginia, could prescribe or dictate terms to the new State. In none of the
compacts made by States does it appear that the parent
State has ever sought or been allowed to impose on the
new State any such burdens, limitations or conditions, as
were not immediately connected with the territory ceded
to the new State. The extent of such territory, its boundaries, and the rights and assessments incident thereto, and
these only, can be the subject-matters of such compacts.
All other matters fall within the domestic power and control of the new State.
At no time and in no manner did West Virginia ever
accept the proposition contained in the ninth section of
the Wheeling ordinance. The provision made by West
Virginia in her constitution was not an acceptance of the
ninth section of the Wheeling ordinance. It differed in its
most material features from that section. Acceptance of
a proposition must be absolute and unconditional without the omission or addition of a single term.
The method of ascertainment proposed by the ninth
section of the ordinance cannot be accepted as a properplan for ascertaining Wett Virginia's just proportion of the
public debt of Virginia, because-as the master has found
in his report-" The Wheeling ordinance is not predicated
upon the amount of the public debt," and counsel for
West Virginia have repeatedly stated that "the ninth
section of the ordinance has no relation to the amount of
the public debt of Virginia," etc. "The amount of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for West Virginia.

220 U. S.

Virginia debt is not a factor to be taken into consideration
in ascertaining West Virginia's just proportion."
The "just proportion" of an amount cannot be ascertained without knowing the amount itself.The convention that framed the constitution for the
proposed new State did not regard itself as bound by any
suggestions offered by the Wheeling ordinance. It either
ignored or repudiated the suggestion made as to the name
of the new State, and also as to the plan for ascertaining
the proper proportion of the public debt of Virginia to be
borne by West Virginia.
The act of Congress of December 31, 1862, admitting
the State of West Virginia into the Union, did not refer
.to the Wheeling ordinance, but did refer only to the act of
the Virginia legislature and to the constitution adopted
by West Virginia.
The act of the legislature of Virginia giving consent to
the erection of the new State within its territory did not
refer to the Wheeling ordinance, and her consent was not
given on any condition, either express or implied, that
the ordinance or any of its provisions should form a compact between the two. States, but such consent was given
to the formation of the new State according to the boundaries and under the provisions set forth in the constitution for the said State of West Virginia, proposed by the
convention which assembled in Wheeling on November 26,
1861.
The Wheeling ordinance was adopted by a convention
which sat in August, 1861, and the purpose of the Virginia legislature appears to have been to exclude the inference that it referred in any way to the acts of that
convention.
Mr. Charles E. Hogg, Mr. George W. McClintic and
Mr. John C. Spooner, with whom Mr. William G. Conley, .
Attorney General of the State of West Virginia, Mr.

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
220 U. S.

Argument for West Virginia.

Wm. Mollohan, Mr. Wm. M. 0. Dawson and Mr. W. G.
Matthews were on the brief, for West Virginia:
When the great transactions occurred which are under
review, the Confederate States of America had been
formed. Ordinances of secession had been passed by
South. Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Mississippi
and Louisiana. Virginia had passed an ordinance of secession, had borrowed $1,000,000, had called for 10,000
men to serve for twelve months and has arranged with the
Confederate government for admission to the Confederacy, and in the meantime -that her troops should, under
the Confederate government, be employed against the
United States.
Her troops had seized the Norfolk and Gossport Navy
Yards, the arsenal at Harper's Ferry, the Customs
Houses, and other property of the United States within
hqr borders; had hauled down the flag of the United States
and hoisted in its place another. President Buchanan in
a message to Congress had taken the position that there
was no power in the Federal Government under the Constitution to coerce a State. Fort Sumter had been surrendered.
President Lincoln had called for 75,000 troops to serve
three months. The battle of Bull Run had been fought in
which the Federal troops were disastrously defeated. The
"New York Tribune," edited by Mr. Greeley, exercising
a most potent influence upon public opinion, advocated a'
peaceful separation of the States determined to withdraw,
and many eminent men of undodbted love for the Union
in both parties seemed to be of the same opinion. There
was grave doubt throughout the country as to the ultimate
result. The people of West Virginia could not be blind to
the fact that if the Confederacy should be established, that
territory would, unless action were taken, be irrevocably a
part of that Confederacy.
Isolated from eastern Virginia, and differing in senti-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for West Virginia.

220 U. S.

ment from her people in respect to the right of secession
and the institution of slavery, her people are not to be
justly chided here or elsewhere for embracing that opportunity to become a State in the Union. In this situation, is to be found the genesis of West Virginia; and in
the light of this situation, her people are to be judged and
her compacts and "constating" instruments are to be
construed.
This court has never decided that when a State is
divided the debts of the original State should be ratably
apportioned between it and the new State. That question was not involved in or decided by either Hartman v.
Greenhow, 102 U. S. 672, or Antoni v. Greenhow, 107 U. S.
769.
The true rule of public law in case of the division of a
State is that general debts are apportioned on the basis
of taxable value. Local debts are assumed by the State
for the exclusive benefit of whose territory they were incurred. See Hall's International Law, 78, 80. No rule
of international law concerning this point can be said to
exist, although many treaties have stipulated a devolution of a part of the debt of the predecessor upon its successor. See also Treaty of Berlin of 1878, and Huber,
Nos. 125-135 and 205; Oppenheim's Int. Law, § 84; and
Glenn's Int. Law, 36. As to effect of change of sovereignty upon the public rights and obligations, see Hannis
Taylor, Int. Law, §§ 166, 168. Pradier Fod6r6, in "Trait6
de Droit International Public," Vol. 1, § 156, states that
the state to which cession is made is bound by local debts
of ceded territory.
Bluntschli says, § 59, that the debts of the state ought
not to be divided proportionally to the population, but
that the taxes furnish a juster basis. Bonfils, 3d ed.,
§§ 223-226, limits the liability exclusively to the debts
contracted for the exclusive benefit of its territory, and
makes taxation the basis. Franz v. Liszt, University of

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
220 U. S.

Argument for West Virginia.

Berlin, 2d ed., Berlin, 1902, § 23, p. 175, takes the same
view; see also Pidelivre, Paris, 1894, §§ 154, 155. The
proportion of the debt to be borne should be determined
in accordance with the relative wealth of the detached
portion and of the remainder of the dismembered state,
and this wealth is disclosed by the taxes. Alphonse
Rivier, Paris, 1826, Vol. 1, p. 213 (Art. 40, V).
Pasquale Fiore, Int. Law, § 132, of his codified Int.
Law, § 360 of Nouveau Droit International, says that
Bluntschli is correct, that the apportionment should not
be made proportionally to population, but apportioned
proportionally to the taxes. Pradier Fod6r6, §§ 156, 157,
states that the state to which cession is made is bound by
local debts of ceded territory, citing as instances the acquisition of Lombardy and Venice by Italy, and the
Alsace-Lorraine cession of 1871, as the general rule, to
which the treaty of Berlin of 1878, imposing part of the
public Turkish debt upon. Bulgaria, Montenegro, Servia,
was an exception.
Max Huber, on Staatensuccession (1898), says, pp. 9092, § 34, that the division pro rata regionis has no reasonable basis, and on p. 96 limits the assumption to special
debts; see also § 272, as to debts incurred in the interest
of the particular domain. See also Henri Appleton on
Annexation and Debts, Paris, 1895, Ch. IV, § H, 6567.
Even if the court should be of opinion, that the rule of
international law does not govern the present case, yet if
the court, apart from the method prescribed by the. ordinance and notwithstanding the provision, in, the constitution of West Virginia referring the matter, for, ascertainment to the legislature of that State, should undertake to
determine the equitable proportion of the old Virginia
debt which West Virginia should assume, it cannot fail to
give great weight to the authorities on international law
which we have cited. The rules of international law are
VOL. ccxx-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for West Virginia.

220 U. S.

based entirely upon considerations of equity and fairness.
They have no force nor sanction except from the consent
of nations by reason of their evident justice. This court,
therefore, in determining what would be an equitable apportionment of the Virginia debt, would undoubtedly desire to take into most careful consideration the unanimous
opinion of the modern international law authorities that,
in apportioning the debt of a state after its division,
equity requires a distinction to be made between the portion of the debt which is local or special in its character
and that which is general, so that the parent state and the
new state- are bound respectively to assume the whole of
the local debts rblating to their respective territories, leaving only the general debt to be apportioned on the basis
of taxable value.
The distinction between general and local debts was
recognized in the division of territory of Dakota. Act of
Congress of Feby. 22, 1889., § 6, 25 U. S. Stat. 682.
The distinction between general and special debt was
discussed in negotiation of treaty between United States
and Spain. The American commissioners recognized the
distinction, but refused to accede to the demand of Spain,
upon the ground that Cuba had had no debt, but, on the
contrary, had been a self-supporting colony, and the commissioners considered that the indebtedness was incurred,
and its proceeds used, to wage war upon Cuba and to resist by arms the aspirations and struggles of her people to
be freed from long-continued despotism and misrule and
that the debt was, therefore, a part of Spain's national or
general debt.
If we had taken over Cuba in the absence of strife between Cuba and Spain and the United States and Spain,
and there had been found an indebtedness incurred by
.Spain, the proceeds of which had been -expended in public
improvements in Cuba and for the benefit and betterment
of the island and its inhabitants, the question would have

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
220 U. S.

Argument for West Virginia.

been a different one, and from the standpoint of international law and justice, our attitude must have been
different.
The distinction between general debt and local debt
is substantial and just and rests upon a sound principle.
The public debt of Virginia prior to January 1, 1861,
was a local or special and not a general debt.
*In respect of all of the debt, the proceeds of which were
expended in West Virginia, the schedule shows that the
loans which she effected were numbered as required by
law, the certificate of debt or certificates of debt, referring
to the act which authorized the particular expenditure, so
that it is not only true. that the debt represents expenditures for internal improvements, but it is true, so far as
the expenditures in West Virginia were concerned, that
the moneys which were expended, the proceeds of loans,
are traceable to the particular improvements and the
stocks and dividends thereon were pledged for the repayment of the loan.
The rule of public law does not govern this case because the Wheeling ordinance and the constitution of
West Virginia constitute a special agreement as to the
proportion of the old Virginia debt to be assumed by
West Virginia.
Virginia is not in a position to insist upon the elimination of the ordinance from the case. Virginia does not
contend that the ordinance has ceased to be binding.
There is no conflict between the ordinance and the constitution; the latter was adopted within ninety days of
the former. The constitutional provision was silent as to
method. There was no occasion for repeating in 'it the
language of the ordinance so recently adopted as to the
ordinance being a compact. See Virginia v. West Virginia, 11 Wall. 39; and' as to whether Congress consented
to it, see Virginia v. Tennessee, 148 U. S. 503; Wedding v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for West Virginia.

220 U. S.

Meyler, 192 U. S. 582. It certainly was a compact, and
wherever it was not carried into the constitution, it remains binding as such.
When the Congress admitted West Virginia into the
Union, there were two States, and the ordinance so far as
it was not merged into the constitution, was a compact
binding from the beginning.
The vice in the argument for Virginia is in the assumption that the ordinance is to be read as if it consisted only
of these words: The new State shall take upon itself a just
proportion of the public debt of Virginia prior to the first
of J anuary, 1861. The ordinance was not confined to the
debt.
"Just" and "equitable" are synonymous. See Webster; "1. Justice, right."
If the ordinance is in conflict with the constitution the
ordinance must be wholly eliminated; and with the ordinance eliminated the ascertainment of West Virginia's
proportion of the debt must be left to the legislature of
West Virginia. What proportion of the debt of a county
or a city or a town which is divided by legislative authority, shall be borne by the portion set off to make a
neNV town, or included within the boundaries of another
county, city or town, is a legislative question and not a
judicial one. Laramie Co. v. Albany Co., 92 U. S. 307;
.Mount Pleasant v. Beckwith, 100 U. S. 514. If the legislature of West Virginia has failed, with or without justification, to discharge the duty imposed upon it by the
constitution, the matter was left by the legislature of
Virginia and by the Congress to the honor of the legislature of West Virginia. There is no recourse to courts.
With the ordinance eliminated the matter is not justiciable. Tulare County v. Kings County, 1.17 California, 195;
Los Angeles County v. Orange County, 97 California, 329;
Taylor v. Brewer, 1 Maule & Selwin, 290; and Cummer v.
Butts, 40 Michigan, 322.

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
220 U. S.

Argument for West Virginia.

This court, however, has declared that the ordinance
and the constitution do not conflict and are to be read in
pari materia. See former opinion in this case, 206 U. S.
290, 319.
The master was right in holding that bonds held by the
Sinking Fund. and by the Literary Fund were not a part
of the public debt of Virginia. Board of Public Works v.
Gannt, 76 Virginia, 465; Louisiana v. Jumel and Elliott
v. Wiltz, 107 U. S. 711.
The master was right in excluding under paragraph III
of the decree expenditures by corporations in which Virginia-was a stockholder.
Virginia legislature and courts recognize the distinction
between private corporations with stock and public corporations without stock. Sayre v. The Northwestern
Turnpike Road, 10 Leigh, 454.
The master was wrong in finding that interest on the
public debt of Virginia was part of the ordinary expenses
of the state government.
Interest on a state debt is not an ordinary expense of
government because it is payable only during a limited
period.
Interest on the 'old Virginia debt was not an ,ordinary
.expense of government because the debt was incurred for
extraordinary purposes.
West Virginia is 'not bound to pay interest from January 1, 1861, on the .proportion of the old Virginia debt
assumed by her.
There is no basis for Virginia's claim for interest.Commonwealth v. Marston's Administrator,9 Leigh, 36.
Neither by the ordinance nor by her constitution did
West Virginia in prcesenti assume any portion of the public debt of Virginia.
•The Virginia rule as to private contracts that interest
follows the principal does not and cannot apply to contracts between sovereign States. Higginbotham's Execu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

trix v. Commonwealth, 25 Grattan, 627, does not apply in
this case.
United States v. North Carolina, 136 U. S. 211, holds
that interest is not to be awarded against a sovereign
government, unless its consent to pay interest has- been
clearly manifested by an act of its legislature, or by a
lawful contract of its executive officers. Citing United
States v. Sherman, 98 U. S. 565; Angarica v. Bayard, 127
-U. S. 251, 260.
West Virginia did not agree to assume a just proportion of all the outstanding obligations of Virginia, but
only of her debt.
There is no evidence that the improvements constructed
by Virginia within her present limits were -for the benefit
of the region now West Virginia.
Under the ordinance and her constitution West Virginia cannot be. charged with interest until after the ascertainment, in the manner prescribed, of her equitable
proportion of the old Virginia debt.
If there had been any intent to assume, or pay, the
accrued interest on the bonds of Virginia, outstanding, the
constitution would have so expressed it.
Following the principle announced in United States v.
North Carolina, 136 U. S. 211, many of the state courts
have laid down in distinct terms the same proposition.
Sawyer v. Colgan, 102 Florida, 293; Hawkins v. Mitchell,
34 Florida, 421; Molineaux v. State, 109 Florida, 380;
Flint &c. R. R. Co. v. State Auditors, 102 Michigan, 502;
Carr v. State, 127. Indiana, 204; S. C., 22 Am. St. Rep.
624, note, p. 448.
Virginia alone is responsible for the delay in apportioning the debt and West Virginia cannot be charged with
that delay.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill brought by the Commonwealth of Vir-

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ginia to have the State of West Virginia's proportion of the
public debt of Virginia as it stood before 1861 ascertained
and satisfied. The bill was set forth when' the case was
before this court on demurrer. 206 U. S. 290. Nothing
turns on the form or contents of it. The object has been
stated. The bill alleges the existence of a debt contracted
between 1820 and 1861 in connection with internal im-.
provements intended to develop the whole State, but with
especial view to West Virginia, and carried through by the
votes of the representatives of the West Virginia counties.
it then sets forth the proceedings for the formation of a
separate State and the material provisions of the ordinance adopted for that purpose at Wheeling on August 20,
1861, the passage of an act of Congress for the admission
of the new State under a constitution that had been
adopted, and the admission of West Virginia into the
Union, all of which we shall show more fully a little further
on. Then follows an averment of the transfer in 1863 to
West Virginia of the property within her boundaries belonging to West Virginia, to be accounted for in the settlement thereafter to be made with the last-named State.
As West Virginia gets the benefit of this property without
an accounting, on the principles of this decision, it needs
not to be mentioned in more detail. A further appropriation to West Virginia is alleged of $150,000, together with
unappropriated balances, subject to acounting for the
surplus on hand received from counties outside of the new
State. Then follows an argumentative averment of a
contract in the constitution of West Virginia to assume
an equitable proportion of the above-mentioned public
debt, as hereafter will be explained. Attempts between
1865 and 1872 to ascertain the two States' proportion of
the debt and their failure are averred, and the subsequent
legislation and action of Virginia in arranging with the
bondholders, that will be explained hereafter so far as
needs. Substantially all the bonds outstanding in 1861

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

have been taken up. It is stated that both in area of
territory and in population West Virginia was equai to
about one-third of Virginia, that being the proportion
that Virginia asserts to be the proper one for the division
of the debt, and this claim is based upon the division of
the State, upon the above-mentioned Wheeling ordinance
and the constitution of the new State, upon the recognition of the liability by statute and resolution, and upon
'the receipt of property as has been stated above. After
stating further efforts to bring about an adjustment and
their failure, the bill prays for an accounting to ascertain
the balance due to Virginia in her own right and as trustee
for bondholders and an adjudication in accord with this
result.
The answer admits a debt of about $33,000,000, but
avers that the main object of the internal improvements
in connection with which it was contracted was to afford
outlets to the Ohio River on the west and to the seaboard
on the east for the products of the eastern part of the State,
and to develop the resources of that part, not those of
what is now West Virginia. In aid of this conclusion it
goes into some elaboration of details. It admits the proceedings for the separation of the State and refers to an
act of May, 1862, consenting to the same, to which we
also shall refer. It denies that it received property of
more than a little value from Virginia or that West Virginia received more than belonged to her in the way of
surplus revenue on hand when she was admitted to the
Union, and denies that any liability for these items was
assumed by her constitution. It sets forth in detail the
proceedings looking to a settlement, but as they have no
bearing upon our decision we do not dwell upon them.
It admits the transactions of Virginia with the bondholders and sets up that they discharged the Commonwealth from one-third of its debt and that what may have
been done as to two-thirds does not concern the defend-

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court..

ant, since Virginia admits that her share was not less than
that. If the bonds outstanding in 1861 have been taken
up it is only by the issue of new bonds for two-thirds and
-certificates to be paid by West Virginia alone for the other
third. Liability for any payments by Virginia is denied
and accountability, if any, is averred to be only on the
principle of § 9 of the Wheeling ordinance, to be stated.
It is set up further that under the constitution of West
Virginia her equitable proportion can be established by
her legislature alone, that the liquidation can be only in
the way provided-by that instrument, and hence that this
suit cannot be maintained. The settlement by Virginia
with her creditors also is pleaded as a bar, and that she
brings this suit solely as trustee for them.
The grounds of the claim are matters of public history.
After the Virginia. ordinance of secession, citizens of the
State who dissented from that ordinance organized a government that was recognized as the State of Virginia by
the Government of the United States. Forthwith a convention of the restored State, as it was called, held at
Wheeling, proceeded to carry out a long entertained wish
of many West Virginians by adopting an ordinance for the
formation of a new State out of the western portion of the
old Commonwealth. A part of § 9 of the ordinance was as
follows: "The new state shall take upon itself a just proportion of the public debt of the Commonwealth of Virginia prior to the first day of January, 1861, to be ascertained by charging to it all state expenditures within the
limits thereof, and a just proportion of the ordinary expenses of the state government, since any part of said
debt was. contracted ;:and deducting therefrom the monies
paid into the treasury of the Commonwealth from the
counties included within the said new state during the,
said period," Having previously provided for a popular
vote,.a constitutional convention, etc., the ordinance in.
§ 10 ordained that when the General Assembly should give

26

OCTOBER TERM,' 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

its consent to the formation of such new State, it should
forward to the Congress'of the United States such consent, together with an official copy of such constitution,
with the request that the new State might be admitted
into
union of States.
A the
constitution
was framed for the new State by a constitutional convention, as provided in the ordinance, on
November 26, 1861, and was adopted. By Article 8, § 8,
"An equitable proportion of the public debt of the Commonwealthof Virginia, prior to the fiSt day of January
in the year one thousand eight hundred and sixty-one,
shall be assumed by this State; and the Legislature
shall 'ascertain the same as soon as may be practicable,
and provide for the liquidation thereof, by a sinking fund
sufficient to pay the accruing interest, and redeem the
principal within thirty-four years." An act of the legislature of the restored State of Virginia, passed May 13,
1862, gave the consent of that legislature to the erection
of the ndw State "under the provisions set forth in the
constitution for the said State of West Virginia." Finally
Congress gave its sanction by an act of December 31,
1862, c. 6, 12 Stat. 633, which recited the framing and
adoption of the West Virginia constitution and the consent given by the legislature of Virginia through the last
mentioned act, as well as the request of the West Virginia
convention and of the Virginia legislature, as the grounds
for its consent. There was a provision for the adoption
of an emancipation clause before the act of Congress should
take effect, and for a proclamation by the President, stating the fact, when the desired amendment was made.
Accordingly, after the amendment and a proclamation by
President Lincoln, West Virginia became a State on
June 20, 1863.
It was held in 1870 that the foregoing constituted an
agreement between the old State and the new, Virginia
v. Wet Virginia, 11 Wall. 39, and so much may be taken

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

practically to have been decided again upon the demurrer
in this, case, although the demurrer was overruled without
prejudice to any question. Indeed, so much is almost if
not quite admitted in the answer. After the answer had
been filed the cause was referred to a master by a decree
made on May 4, 1908, 209 U. S. 514, 534, which provided
for the ascertainment of the facts made the basis of apportionment by the original Wheeling ordinance, and also
of other facts that would furnish an alternative method if
that prescribed in the Wheeling ordinance should not be
followed; this again without prejudice to any question in
the cause. The master has reported, the case has been
heard upon the merits, and now is submitted to the decision of the court.
The case is to be considered in the untechnical spirit
proper for dealing with a quasi-international controversy, remembering that there is no municipal code governing the matter, and that this court may be called on to
adjust differences that cannot be dealt with by Congress
or disposed of by the legislature of either State alone.
Missouri v. Illinois, 200 U. S. 496, 519, 520. Kansas v.
Colorado, 206 U. S. 46, 82-84. Therefore we shall spend
no time on objections as to multifariousness, laches and
the like, except so far as they affect the merits, with
which we proceed to deal. See Rhode Island v. Massachusetts, 14 Peters, 210, 257. United States v. Beebe, 127
U. S. 338.
The amount of the debt January 1, 1861, that we have
to apportion no longer is in dispute. The master's finding was accepted by West Virginia and at the argument we understood Virginia not to press her exception
that it should be enlarged by a disputed item. It was
$33,897,073.82, the sum being represented mainly by
interest-bearing bonds. The first thing to be decided is
what the final agreement was that was made between the
two States. Here again we are not to be bound by techni-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

cal form. A State is superior to the forms that it may require of its citizens. But there would be no technical
difficulty in making a contract by a constitutive ordinance
if followed by the creation of the contemplated State.
Wedding v. Meyler, '192 U. S. 573, 583. And, on the other
hand, there is equally little difficulty in making a cbntract
by the constitution of the new State, if it be apparent that
the instrument is. not addressed solely to those who are to
be subject to its provisions, but is intended to be understood by the parent State and by Congress as embodying
a just term which conditions the parent's consent. There
can be no question that such was the case
with West
Virginia. As has been shown, the consent of the legislature of the restored State was a consent to the admission
of West Virginia under the provisions set forth in the
constitution for the would-be State, and Congress gave
its sanction only on the footing of the same constitution
and the consent of Virginia in the last-mentioned act.
These three documents would establish a contract without more. We may add, with reference to an argument to
which we attach little weight, that they establish a contract of West Virginia with Virginia. There is no reference to the form of the debt or to its holders, and it is
obvious that Virginia had an interest that it was most
important that she should be able to protect. Therefore
West Virginia must be taken to have promised to Virginia to pay her share, whoever might be the persons to
whom ultimately the payment was to be made.
We are of opinion that the contract established as we
have said is not modified or affected in any practical way
by the preliminary suggestions of the Wheeling ordinance.
Neither the ordinance nor the special mode of ascertaining a just proportion of the debt that it puts forward is
mentioned in the constitution of West Virginia, or in the
act of Virginia giving her consent, or in the act of Congress by which West Virginia became a State. The ordi-

-

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

nance required that a copy of the new constitution should
be laid before Congress, but said nothing about the ordinance itself. It is enough to refer to the circumstances in
which the separation took place to show that Virginia is
entitled to the benefit of any doubt so far as the construction of the contract is concerned. See opinion of AttorneyGeneral Bates to President Lincoln, 10 Op. Atty. Gen. 426.
The mode of the Wheeling ordinance would not throw on
West Virginia a -proportion of the debt that would be just,
as the ordinance requires, or equitable, according to the
promise of the constitution, unless upon the assumption
that interest on the public debt should be considered as
part of the ordinary expenses referred to in its terms.
That we believe would put upon West Virginia a larger
obligation than the mode' that we adopt, but we are of
opinion that her share should be ascertained in a different
way. All the modes, however, consistent with the plain
contract of West Virginia, whether under the Wheeling
ordinance or the constitution of that State, come out with
surprisingly similar results.
It was argued, to be sure, that the debt of Virginia was
incurred for local improvements and that in such a case,
even apart from the ordinance, it should be divided according to the territory in which the money was expended.
We see no sufficient reason for the application of such a
principle to this case. In form the aid was an investment.
It generally took the shape of a subscription for stock in a
corporation. To make the investment a safe one the precaution was taken to require as a condition precedent that
two or three-fifths of the stock should have been subscribed for by solvent persons fully able to pay, and that
one-fourth of the subscriptions should have been paid up
into the hands of the treasurer. From this point of view
the venture was on behalf of the whole State. The parties
interested in the investment were the same, wherever the
sphere of corporate action might be, The whole State

30

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

would have got the gain and the whole State must bear
the loss, as it does not appear that there are any stocks of
value on hand. If we should attempt to look farther,
many of the corporations concerned were engaged in improvements that had West Virginia for their objective
point, and we should be lorst in futile detail if we should
try to unravel in each instance the ultimate scope of the
scheme. It Would be unjust, however, to stop with the
place where the first steps were taken and not to consider
the purpose with which the enterprise was begun. All
the expenditures had the ultimate good of the whole
State in view. Therefore we adhere to our conclusion
that West Virginia's share of the debt must be ascertained in a different way. In. coming to it we do but
apply against West.Virginia the argument pressed on her
behalf to exclude her liability under the Wheeling ordinance in like cases. By the ordinance West Virginia was
to be charged with all state expenditures within the limits
thereof. But she vigorously protested against being
charged with any sum expended in the form of a purchase
of stocks.
But again, it was argued that if this contract should be
found to be what we have said, then the determination of
a just proportion was left by the constitution to the legislature of West Virginia, and that irrespectively of the
words of the instrument it was only by legislation that a
just proportion could be fixed. These arguments do not
impress us. The provision in the constitution of the
State of West Virginia that the legislature shall ascertain
the proportion as soon as may be practicable was not intended to undo the contract in the preceding words by
making the representative and mouthpiece of one of the
parties the sole tribunal for its enforcement. It was simply an exhortation and command from supreme to subordinate authority to perform the promise as soon as
might be and an indication of the way. Apart from the

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

language used, what is just and equitable is a judicial
question similar to many that arise in private litigation,
and in nowise beyond the competence of a tribunal to
decide.
The ground now is clear, so far as the original contract
between the two States is concerned. The effect of that
is that West Virginia must bear her just and equitable
proportion of the public debt as it was intimated in
Hartman v. Greenhow, 102 U. S. 672, so long ago as 1880,
that she should. It remains for us to consider such subsequent acts as may have affected the original liability or as
may bear on the determination of the amount to be paid.
On March 30, 1871, Virginia, assuming that the equitable
share of West Virginia was about one-third, passed an act
authorizing an exchange of the outstanding bonds, etc.,
and providing for the funding of two-thirds of the debt
with interest accrued to July 1, 1871, by the issue of new
bonds bearing the same rate of interest as the old, six per
cent. There were to be issued at the same time, for the
other one-third, certificates of same date, setting forth the
amount of the old bond that was not funded, that payment thereof with interest at the rate prescribed in the
old bond would be provided for in accordance with such
settlement as should be had between Virginia and West
Virginia in regard to the public debt, and that Virginia
held the old bonds in trust for the holder or his assignees.
There were further details that need not be mentioned.
The coupons of the new bonds were receivable for all
taxes and demands due to the State. Hartman v. Greenhow, 102 U. S. 672. McGahey v. Virginia, 135 U. S. 662.
The certificates issued to the public under this statute and
outstanding amount to $12,703,451.79.
The burden under the statute of 1871 still being greater
than Virginia felt able to bear, a new refunding act was
passed on March 28, 1879, reducing the interest
and proriding that Virginia would negotiate or aid in negotiating

32.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

with West Virginia for the settlement of the claims of
certificate holders and that the acceptance of certificates
'for West Virginia's one-third' under this act should be
an absolute release of Virginia from all liability on account
of the same'. Few' of these certificates were accepted.
On February 14, 1882, another attempt was made, but,
without sufficient success to make it necessary to set forth
the contents ;of the statute. The certificates for balances
not represented by bonds, "constituting West Virginia's
share of the old debt," stated that the balance was "to be
accounted for by the state of West Virginia without repourse upon this commonwealth."
On February 20, 1892, a statute was passed which led
to a settlement, described in the bill as final and satisfactory. This provided for the issue of bonds for nineteen
million dollars in exchange for twenty-eight millions outstanding, not funded, the new bonds bearing interest at
two per cent for the first ten years and three per cent for
ninety years; and certificates in form similar to that just
stated, in the act of 1882. On March 6, 1894, a joint
resolution of the Senate and House of Delegates was
passed, reciting the passage of the four above mentioned
statutes, the provisions for certificates, and the satisfactory adjustment of the liabilities assumed by Virginia
on account of two-thirds of the debt, and appointing a
committee to negotiate with West Virginia, when satisfied that, a majority of the certificate holders desired it
and, would accept the amount to be paid by West Virginia
in full settlement of the one-third that Virginia had not
assumed, The State was to be subjected to no expense.
Finally an act of March 6,1900, authorized the commission to receive and take on deposit the certificates, upon
4 contract that the certificate holders would accept the
amount. realized from West Virginia in full settlement of
all their claims under the same. It also authorized
a suit
if' certain proportions of the certificates should be so de-

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

posited, as since then they have been-the State, as before, to be subjected to no expense.
On January 9, 1906, the commission reported that apart
from cdrtificates held by the State and not entering into
this account, there were outstanding of the certificates
of 1871 in the hands of the public $12,703,451.79, as we
have said, of which the commission held $J10,851,294.09,
and of other certificates there were in the hands of the
public $2,778,239.80, of which the commission held
$2,322,141.32.
On the foregoing facts- a technical argument is pressed
that Virginia has discharged herself of all liability as to
one-third of the debt; that, therefore, she is without interest in this suit, and cannot maintain it on her own behalf; that she cannot maintain it as trustee for the certificate holders, New Hampshire v. Louisiana, 108 U. S.
76; and that the bill is multifarious in attempting to unite
claims made by the plaintiff as such trustee with some
others set up under the Wheeling ordinance, etc., which,
in the view we take, it has not, been necessary to mention
or discuss. We shall assume it to be true for the purposes
of our decision, although it may be open to debate, Greenhow v. Vashon, 81 Virginia, 336, 342, 343, that the certificate holders who have turned in their certificates, being
much the greater number, as.has been seen, by doing so,
if not before, surrendered all claims under the original
bonds or otherwise against Virginia to the extent of onethird of the debt. But even on that concession the argument seems to us unsound.
The liability of West Virginia is a deep-seated equity,
not discharged by changes in the form of the debt; nor
split up by the unilateral attempt of Virginia to apportion specific parts to the two States. If one-third of the
debt were discharged in fact, to all intents, we perceive
no reason, in what has happened, why West Virginia
should not contribute her proportion of the remaining
VOL. CCXX-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1910
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

two-thirds. But we are of opinion that no part of the
debt is extinguished, and further, that nothing has happened to bring the rule of New Hampshire v. Louisiana
into play. For even if Virginia is not liable she has the
contract of West Virginia to bear an equitable share of
the whole debt, a contract in the performance of which
the honor and credit of Virginia is concerned, and which
she does not lose her right to insist upon by her creditors
accepting from necessity the performance of her estimated duty as confining their claims for the residue to
the party equitably bound. Her creditors never could
have sued her if the supposed discharge had not been
granted, and the discharge does not diminish her interest
and right to have the whole debt paid by the heip of the
defendant. The suit is in Virginia's own interest, none
the less that she is to turn over the proceeds. See United
States v. Beebe, 127 U. S.-338, 342. United States v. Nashville, Chattanooga & St. Louis Ry. Co., 118 U. S. 120, 125,
126. Moreover, even in private litigation it has been
held that a trustee may recover to the extent of the interest of his cestui que trust. Lloyd's v. Harper, 16 Ch.
D. 290, 309, 315. Lamb v. Vice, 6 M. & W. 467, 472. We
may add that in all its aspects it is a suit on the contract,
and it is most proper that the whole matter should be
disposed of at once.
It remains true then, notwithstanding all the transactions between the old Commonwealth and her bondholders, that West Virginia must bear her equitable proportion of the whole debt. With a qualification which we
shall mention in a moment, we are of opinion that the
nearest approach to justice that we can make is to adopt
a ratio determined by the master's estimated valuation
of the real and personal property of the two States on the
date of the separation, June 20, 1863. A ratio determined by population or land area would throw a larger
share on West Virginia, but the relative resources of the

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
220 U. S.

35

Opinion of the Court.

debtor populations are. generally recognized, we think, as
affording a proper measure. It seems to us plain that
slaves should be excluded from the valuation. The master's figures without them are, for Virginia $300,887,367.74,
and for West Virginia $92,416,021.65. These figures are
criticised by Virginia, but we see no sufficient reason for
going behind them, or ground for thinking that we can
get nearer to justice in any other way. It seems to us
that Virginia cannot complain of the result. They would
give the proportion in which the $33,897,073.82 was to be
divided, but for a correction which Virginia has made
necessary. Virginia with the consent of her creditors
has cut down her liability to not more than two-thirds
of the debt, whereas at the ratio shown by the figures her
share, subject to mathematical correction, is about .7651.
If our figures are correct, the difference between Virginia's
share, say $25,931,261.47, and the amount that the creditors were content to accept from her, say $22,598,049.21,
is $3,333,212.26; subtracting the last sum from the debt
leaves $30,563,861.56 as the sum to be apportioned. Taking .235 as representing the proportion of West Virginia
we have $7,182,507.46 as her share of the principal debt.
We have given our decision with respect to the basis
of liability and the share of the principal of the debt of
Virginia that West Virginia assumed. In any event, before we could put our judgment in the form of a final decree there would be figures to be agreed upon or to be ascertained by reference to a master. Among other things
there still remains the question of interest. Whether
any interest is due, and if due from what time it should
be allowed and at what rate it should be computed,
are matters as to which there is a serious controversy
in the record, and concerning which there is room for
a wide divergence of -opinion. There are many elements
to be taken into account on the one side and -on the
other. The circumstahnces of the asserted default and

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

the conditions surrounding the failure earlier to procure
a determination of the principal sum payable, including
the question of laches as to either party, would require
to be considered. A long time has elapsed. Wherever
the responsibility for the delay might ultimately be
placed, or however it might be shared, it would be a severe result to capitalize charges for half a century-such
a thing hardly could happen in a private case analogous
to this. Statutes of limitation, if nothing else, would be
likely to interpose a bar. As this is no ordinary commercial suit, but, as we have said, a quasi-international difference referred to this court in reliance upon the honor
and constitutional obligations of the States concerned
rather than upon ordinary remedies, we think it best at
this stage to go no farther, but to await the effect of a
conference between the parties, which, whatever the
outcome, must take place. If the cause should be pressed
contentiously to the end, it would be referred to a master to go over the figures that we have given provisionally, and to make such calculations as might become necessary. But this ease is one that calls for forbearance upon
both sides. Great States have a temper superior to that
of privaie litigants, and it is to be hoped that enough has
been decided for patriotism, the fraternity of the Union,
and mutual consideration to bring it to an end.

