OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Statement of the Case.

220 U. S.

STATE OF OKLAHOMA ON THE RELATION OF
WEST, ATTORNEY GENERAL, v. CHICAGO,
ROCK ISLAND AND PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 96. Argued March 13, 1911.-Decided April 3, 1911.
Oklahoma v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Railway Co., ante, p. 277,
followed to effect'that an act of Congress granting rights of way to
a railroad company through a Territory and reserving the right to
regulate charges until organization of a state government, which
should then be authorized to fix and regulate charges, ceased to be
operative when the State was organized.
The operative effect of the act of Congress of March 2, 1887, e. 319,
24 Stat. 446, regulating charges of a' railway in Oklahoma Territory
having ceased by its own terms on Oklahoma becoming a State, the
question of what rights the State had in that respect underihe
Enabling Act is merely ar-abstract one.
Whether rates of a railway within the territory of a new State are
illegal depends upon the law of the State, subject to the constitutional protection of the railway company against undue exactions
without due process of law, and not upon acts of Congress affecting
such rates passed prior to the formation-of the State and which by
their own terms expressly cease to be operative after the formation

of the State.

THIS action was brought by the Territory of Oklahoma
in one of its courts againsb the Chicago, Rock Island and
Pacific Railway Company, for the purpose of obtaining an
injunction restraining the railway company from making
certain charges against the inhabitants of the Territory
for the transportation of freight.
The petition showed that, by the act of Congress of
March 2, 1887, c. 319, 24 Stat. 446; a right of way through

OKLAHOMA v. CHI., R. I. & PAC. RY.
220 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

the Territory was granted to the Chicago, Kansas and
Nebraska Railway Company upon certain conditions, one
of which was that the company should not charge the "inhabitants of the Territory" a greater rate of freight than
that authorized by the State of Kansas for transportation
service of the same kind; that under the authority of the
act of Congress of June 27, 1890, c. 633, 26 Stat. 1811;
the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railway Company,
a state corporation, the defendant herein, acquired all the
rights, privileges and franchises granted to and became
subject to all the burdens imposed upon tle original
grantee company, and that the defendant occupied and
used said right of way; but in violation of the act of Congress and of the rights of the inhabitants of the Territory,
it daily charged shippers of wheat a greater rate for shipping than was authorized by the laws of Kansas. The relief asked by the Territory was an injunction restraining
the railway company from demanding, collecting, receiving or charging, directly or indirectly, greater rates for the
transportation of freight and goods,. according to local
distance, than those named in the petition, which, it is
alleged, are in accordance with the conditions upon which
Congress granted the right of way through the Territory
of Oklahoma.
The railway company, by its answer, denied the allegations of the petition, and, in addition, alleged that the
court was without jurisdiction of the subject-matter of theaction, and that jurisdiction was vested exclusively in the
Interstate Commerce Commission and the Circuit Court
of the United States. The Territory filed a reply and the
court granted a temporary injunction restraining the railway company, until the further order of the court, from
demanding, collecting, receiving or charging for the transportation of freight greater rates than those named in the
order of injunction.
From the order of injunction the case was taken on ap-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Statement of the Case.

220 U. S.

peal to the Supreme Court of the Territory, and was
afterwards "transferred to the Supreme Court of the
State under the terms of the Enabling Act and the Schedule to the constitution." It is so stated in the opinion of
the Supreme Court of the State. By the Enabling Act of
June 16, 1906, it was provided that "all cases pending in
the supreme court of said Territory and in the'United
States court of appeals in the Indian Territory not transferred to the United States circuit and district courts in
said State of Oklahoma shall be proceeded with, held, and
determined by the supreme or other final appellate court
of such State as the successor of said Territorial supreme
court and appellate court, subject to the same right to review upon appeal or error to the Supreme Court of the
United States now allowed from the supreme or appellate
courts of a State under existing laws. Jurisdiction of all
cases pending in the courts of original jurisdiction in said
Territories not transferred to the United States circuit
and district courts shall- devolve upon and be exercised
by the courts of original jurisdiction created by said State.
That the supreme court or other court of last resort of
said State shall be deemed to be the successor of said
Territorial appellate courts and shall take and possess any
and all jurisdiction as such, not herein otherwise specifically provided for, and shall receive and retain the custody
of all books, dockets, records, and files not transferred to
other courts, as herein provided, subject to the duty to
furnish transcripts of all book entries in any specific case
transferred to complete the record thereof." 26 Stat. 267,
276, c. 3335, ยง 17.
Upon the authority of one of its former cases, Chicago,
R. 'I. & P. Ry. Co. v. Territory, 21 Oklahoma, 329, the
Supreme Court of the State dismissed the present case,
"for the reason that the change from a territorial form
of government to Statehood so changed conditions that
the questions involved, while they may have been vital

OKLAHOMA
220 U. S.

v. CHI.," R. I. & PAC. RY.

Opinion of the Court.

enough at the time the cases were appealed to the Supreme Court of the Territory, are now merely abstract,
hypothetical questions, from the determination of which
no practical relief can follow." Thereupon the State sued
out the present writ of error.
Mr. Charles West, Attorney General of the State of
Oklahoma, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. M. A. Low for defendant in error.
after making the foregoing statement of the case, delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN,

The State contends that this court has authority, under
ยง 709 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, to review the final judgment of the Supreme Court of Oklahoma, and that the dismissal of the case without giving
the State the relief asked was a denial of its right, based
on the Enabling Act of Congress, to have the railway
company restrained from charging the people of the State,
doing business with it, with greater rates of freight than
were allowed by Kansas for like services.
We concur with the Supreme Court of the State in the
view that this question, raised by the original petition. has
become and is wholly abstract.
The Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railway Company is the 'successor in interest, subject to all the burdens
imposed and having ll the rights granted by the act of
Congress of March 2d, 1887, 24 Stat. 446. The Chicago,
Kansas and Nebraska Railway Company, the predecessor
in interest of the present defendant, was, as we have seen,
authorized to locate and maintain a railway through the
Indian Territory, charging the inhabitants of said Territory no greater rate of freight than the rate authorized by
the laws of Kansas for services or transportation of the
VOL. ccxx-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

same kind. But by the same act Congress reserved "the
right to regulate the charges for freight and passengers on
said railway until a State government shall exist in said
Territory within the limits of which said railway or a part
thereof shall be located; and then such State government
or governments shall be authorized to fix and regulate the
transportation of persons and freights within their respective limits by said railway." The same provision was
'in the act of July 4, 1884, granting a right of way through
the Indian Territory to the Southern Kansas Railway
Company.
In No." 13 Original, just decided, ante, p. 277, the provision in the act prohibiting the inhabitants of the Territory from being charged greater rates than those allowed
in Kansas was held not to be binding when the state government was established, in Oklahoma, after which the
whole subject of rates passed under the control of the
State. Whatever may have been the rights of the inhabitants of .the Territory and of the railway company, under
the act of 1887, the State cannot insist that under the authority of the United States and after Oklahoma became a
State, .that the railway company was bound to accept, in
the matter of rates for domestic business, the test furnished
by the laws of Kansas. Whether any particular rates
charged by the railroad company after Oklahoma became
a State were illegal, as being unreasonable and purely arbitrary, depended upon the laws of that Stdte' touching
the matter or upon the provision of the Federal Consti-.
tution, protecting property against undue exactions without due process of law.
Passing by Other questions, the determination of which
cannot affect the result, we hold, for the reasons stated by
it, that the judgment of the state court was right, and its
judgment must be affirmed.
It is so ordered.

