CHI., B. & Q. RY. CO. v. WILLARD.
220 U. S.

Syllabus.

been referred to as a special circumstance in addition to
the general grounds. Bit~erman v. Louisville & Nashille
R. R. Co., 207 U. S. 205, 222, 223, 224. The general and
special considerations equally apply here, and we ought
not to disregard them, unless the evil effect of the contract is very plain. The analogy relied upon to establish
that evil effect is that of combinations in restraint of trade.
I believe that we have some superstitions on that head,
as I have said; but those combinations are entered into
with intent to exclude others from a business naturally
open to them, and we unhappily have become familiar
with the methods by which they are carried out. I venture to say that there is no likeness between them and this
case. Jayne v. Loder, 149 Fed. Rep. 21, 27; and I think
that my view prevails in England. Elliman, Sons & Co.
v. Carrington& Son, Limited [1901], 2 Ch. 275. See Garst
v. Harris, 177 Massachusetts, 72; Garst v. Charles, 187
Massachusetts, 144. I think also that the importance of
the question and the popularity of what I deem mistaken
notions makes it my duty to express my view in this dissent.

CHICAGO, BURLINGTON AND QUINCY RAILWAY COMPANY v. WILLARD.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT. COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 105.

Submitted March 17, 1911.-Decided April 10, 1911.

On every writ of error or appeal the first and fundamental question is
that of jurisdiction; first of this court and then of the court below.
This question must be asked and answered by the court itself, even
when not otherwise suggested and without respect to the relation of
the parties to it. M. C. & L. M. Ry. Co. v. Swan, 111 U. S. 379.
Consent of parties can never. confer jurisdiction upon a Federal court,

.414

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Petitioner.

220 U. S.

and this court can of its own motion prevent the Circuit Court from
exercising jurisdiction not conferred upon it by statute. Minnesota
v. Northern Securities Co., 194 U. S. 48.
In the absence of express exemptions in the statute, a statutory permission to a railroad to lease its road does not relieve the lessor from
its charter obligations.
Where, as in Illinois, the lessor railroad company remains liable with
the lessee company for torts arising from operation, a plaintiff sustaining injuries may bring an action either separately or against
both jointly and in the latter case neither defendant can remove on
the ground of diverse citizenship if either is a resident of the plaintiff's State.
A defendant cannot say that an action shall be several if the plaintiff
has a right, and so declares, to make it joint; and to make it joint is
not fraudulent if the right to do so exists, even if plaintiff does so to
prevent removal.
Removability of an action depends upon the state of the pleadings and
the record at the time of the application.
THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court, and the right of a defendant to remove a case
thereto from the state court on the ground of separable
controversy,. are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Albert J. Hopkins and Mr. Chester M. Dawes for
petitioner:
The Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern
District of Illinois had full and complete jurisdiction of
said cause, and the Circuit Court of Appeals erred in holding that said court did not acquire jurisdiction, in reversing the judgment of the trial court, and in not affirming
the judgment of the trial court. Hatchen v. T. W. &
W. Ry. Co., 62 Illinois, 477; Atlantic Rdilroad R. Co. v.
Southern Ry. Co., 153 Fed. Rep. 122; Kelly v. C. & A.
Ry. Co., 122 Fed. Rep. 286; Ross v. Erie R. R. Co., 120
Fed. Rep. 703; Durkee v. Illinois CentralR. R. Co., 81 Fed.
Rep. 1; Dishon v. C., N. 0. & T. P. Ry. Co., 133 Fed. Rep.
471; Kentucky v. Powers, 201 U. S. 1, 34; Dow v. Bradstreet Company, 46 Fed. Rep. 824; Kelly v. Chicago &c.

CHI., B. & Q. RY. CO. v. WILLARD.
220 U. S.

Argument for Respondent.

Railway Co., 122 Fed. Rep. 286; Weaver v. Northern Pacific
Railway Co., 125 Fed. Rep. 155; Railway Co. v. Ramsey,
22 Wall. 322.
The jurisdiction of the Federal court in this case attached to this cause by reason of the course of the plaintiff.
It is a question, not of enlarging the jurisdiction of the
Federal courts, but whether or not the plaintiff did not
concede, by his course, the jurisdiction of the Federal
court. Davies v. Lathrop, 15 Fed., Rep. 565; Railway Co.
v. Ramson, 22 Wall. 322; Carringtonv. FloridaR. R. Co.,
9 Blatchf. 467; Edgerton v. Gilpin, 3 Woods, 277; Baggs-v.
Martin, 179 U. S. 206; In re Moore, 209 U. S. 490.
Mr. Arthur J. Eddy, Mr. Emil C. Wetten and Mr. P. C.
Haley for respondent:
In Illinois, when an injury results from the negligent
operation of a railway, whether by the corporation to
which the franchise is granted, or its lessee, both the lessor
and the lessee are liable. Pennsylvania Co. v. Ellett, 132
Illinois, 654; C. & E. I. Ry. Co. v. Meech, 163 Illinois, 305;
West Chicago St. Ry. Co. v. Home, 197 Illinois, 250; C. &
W. I. R. R. Co. v. Newell, 212 Illinois, 336.
An action of tort, which might have been brought
against many persons or against one or more of them, and
which is brought in a state court against all jointly, contains no separable controversy which will authorize its
removal by some of the defendants to the Federal Circuit
Court, even if they file separate answers and set up different defenses from the other defendants and allege that they
are not jointly liable with them, and that their own controversy with the plaintiff is a separate one. Alabama
G. S. R. Co. v. Thompson, 200 U. S. 206; Powers v. Chesapeake &c. R. R. Co., 169 U. S.97; Louisville &c. Ry. Co.
v. Wangelin, 132. U. S. 601; Plymouth Gold Mining Co. v.
Amadore &c. Canal Co., 118 U. S. 264; Pirie v. Tvedt, 115
U. S. 43; Sloane v. Anderson, 117 U. S. 275; Lyttle V. Giles,

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

118.U. S. 596; Torrence v. Shed, 144 U. S. 530; Connell v.
Smiley, 156 U. S. 340; Hyde v. Rubel, 104 U. S. 407; Ayres
v. Wiswall, 112 U. S. 192; Warax v. Cincinnati &c. R. Co.,
72 Fed. Rep. 640; Ill. Cent. R. R. Co. v. LeBlanc, 74 Mississippi, 626.
A defendant has no right to say that an action shall be
separate, which a plaintiff elects, to make joint. A separate defense may defeat a joint recovery, but it cannot
deprive a plaintiff of his right to prosecute his own suit to
final determination in his own way. Pirie v. Tvedt, 115
U. S. 43.
The question whether there is a separable controversy,
warranting a removal, must be determined by the state
of the pleadings and the record of the case at the time of
the application for removal. Wilson v. Oswego Twp., 151
U. S. 65; Merchants' Cotton Co. v. Ins. Co., 151 U. S. 384.
In determining whether there is a separable controversy, the cause of action is for all the purposes of the suit
whatever the plaintiff declares it to be in its pleadings and
the allegations of the plaintiff must be. accepted as true.
Cases supra and Louisville &c. R. R. Co. v. Ide, 114 U. S.
52; Deere v. Chicago &c. R. R. Co., 85 Fed. Rep. 881;
Offner Case, 148 Fed. Rep. 201.
Where the pleadings do not on their face show a separable controversy, its existence must be averred in the petition for removal by the statement of the facts from which
the conclusion arises. Anderson v. Bowers, 40 Fed. Rep.
708.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit originated in one of the courts of Illinois. It
is a joint action against two railroad corporations-the
Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railway Company of
Iowa, and the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railroad
Company of Illinois-to recover damages alleged to have

CHI., B. & Q. RY. CO. v. WILLARD.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

been caused by the negligence, carelessness and improper
conduct of the defendants by their agents and servants,
whereby one Harold R. Wellman, the intestate of the
plaintiff, was killed. The particular railroad, from the
operation of which the injuries in question arose, is located
wholly in Illinois and the plaintiff Willard is a citizen of
that State. The case involves a question, to be presently
mentioned, of the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court. It
also involves a question as to the power and duty of an
appellate Federal court, where it appears, from the record,
that a subordinate court has disposed of a case of which it
could not properly take cognizance, but in respect to which
the parties are silent.
The facts are: The defendant, the Iowa corporation, filed
its petition for the removal of this cause to the Circuit
Court of the United States. It appears that in November, 1901, the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railroad
Company of Illinois leased, for a period of ninety-nine
years from September 30, 1901, to the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railway Company of Iowa its line of
railway and the rights, privileges, franchises, rights of
way, yards, stations, tracks and all appliances thereunto
belonging, including in the lease that part of the road
in Illinois described in the declaration; that the lessor
company also assigned to the lessee company all other
real and personal property not above mentioned, and all
the rights, privileges, immunities and franchises of the
lessor company, except its franchise to be a corporation;
that after December 21, 1901, as well as on the day of the
alleged injury and death of Wellman, the Iowa company
operated and was then operating, controlling and managing the railway lines of the Illinois company. At the time
of the injuries complained of neither the Illinois company
nor any of its servants controlled, used or operated the
railroad engine or ca's with which the deceased came into
contact and was killed, but that the management, custody,
VOL. ccxx-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

control and operation of the leased road and property was
with the Iowa corporation exclusively; and that there was,
it is alleged, a separable controversy betwebn the Iowa
company and the plaintiff, citizen of Illinois, which en-titled that corporation to have the cause transferred for
trial into the Federal court. It was further alleged that
as the plaintiff was a citizen of Illinois, the two corporations were fraudulently and improperly joined as codefendants for the purpose of defeating the removal of the
case to the Federal court.
The state court made an order recognizing the right of
the Iowa corporation to have the cause removed to the
Federal court. Subsequently, in the Circuit Court of the
United States, the. plaintiff moved to remand the case to
the state court; but a few days thereafter he was given
leave to withdraw that motion and to amend his declaration. He did not renew the motion to remand, but was
given leave to amend his declaration, under which privilege he made extended amendments. But we do not
perceive that those amendments affect the conclusion
which, in our judgment, must be reached in the determination of the cause. The case remained throughout
as a joint action against two companies, one of which was
a corporation of the State of which the plaintiff was a citizen. What would have been the effect of any amendment
made by the plaintiff, in the Circuit -Court, eliminating
or dismissing the lessor company, the Illinois corporation,
altogether as a party defendant-thus leaving the case as
presenting issues between citizens of different States onlywe have no occasion now to determine. A trial was had
in the Circuit Court, between the plaintiff and the two corporations, without objection as to the jurisdiction of that
court, and at the conclusion of the evidence the jury, by
direction of the court, returned a verdict for the defendants, and a judgment was accordingly rendered -for them.
The case went to the Circuit Court of Appeals, where that

CHI., B. & Q. RY. CO. v. WILLARD.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

court, being of opinion that the record disclosed a want of
jurisdiction in 'the Circuit Court of the United States, the
judgment was reversed, with directions to remand to the
state court. That action was taken by the Circuit Court
of Appeals upon its own inspection of the record, and without any suggestion by either party, as to a want of jurisdiction in the Circuit Court. The case is now here upon
certiorari.
Had the Circuit Court jurisdiction of this case? As
the plaintiff withdrew and did not renew his. motion to
remand to the state court, but went to trial in the Federal
court without objection, was the Circuit Court of Appeals,
or is this court, precluded from considering the question
of jurisdiction? These questions can have but one answer.
It is firmly established by many decisions that in every
case pending in an appellate Federal court of the United
States the inquiry must always be whether, under the Constitution and laws of the United States, that court or the
court of original jurisdiction could take cognizance of the
case. The leading authority on the subject is M. C. &
L. M. Railway Co. v. Swan, 111 U. S. 379, 382, where the
cases are fully reviewed. In that case the question of
jurisdiction was raised in this court by the party at whose
instance the subordinate Federal court exercised juris'diction. But that fact was held not to be decisive; for,
said Mr. Justice Matthews, speaking for the court, "on
every writ of error or appeal, the first and fundamental
question is that of jurisdiction, first, of this court, and then
of the court from-which the record comes. This question
the court is bound to ask and answer for itself, even when
not otherwise suggested, and without respect to the relation of the parties to it." This rule was said to be inflexible and without exception, and has been uniformly
sustained by this court. In Ayers v. Watson, 113 U. S.
594, 598, Mr. Justice Bradley, speaking for the court, and
referring to the second section (the removal section) of

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

the act of 1875, said: "In the nature of things, the second
section is jurisdictional, and the third is but modal and
formal. The conditions of the second section are indispensable, and must be shown by the record; the directions
of the third, though obligatory, may to a certain extent be
waived. Diverse state citizenship of the parties, or some
other jurisdictional fact prescribed by the second section,
is absolutely essential, and cannot be waived, and the want
of it will be error at any stage of the cause, even though
assigned by the party at whose instance it was committed.
Mansfield & Coldwater Railway Co. v. Swan, 111 U. S.
379." In Cameron v. Hodges, 127 US.322, 326, it was
held to be an express requirement of the statute that the
Circuit Court shall remand a case to the court from which
it was removed whenever it appears that it is not one of
which the Federal court can properly take cognizance.
In Martin v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R., 151 U. S.673, 689,
after referring to the judiciary act of 1875, Mr. Justice
Gray, speaking for the court, said: "Diverse State citizenship of the parties, or some other jurisdictional fact prescribed by the second section, is absolutely essential, and
cannot be waived, and the want of it will be error at any
stage of the cause, even though assigned by the party at
whose instance it was committed." In Minnesota *v.
Northern Securities Co., 194 U. S.48, 62, 63, in which both
parties insisted upon the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court,
the court said: "Consent of [the] parties can never confer
jurisdiction upon a Federal court. If the record does not
affirmatively show jurisdiction in the Circuit Court, we
must, upotn our own motion, so declare, and make such
order as will prevent that court from exercising an authority not conferred upon it by statute." In Thomas v.
Board of Trustees, 195 U. S. 207, 21.1: "It is equally well
,?stablished that when jurisdiction depends upon diverse
citizenship the absence of sufficient averinents or of facts
in the record showing such required diversity of citizen-

CHI., B. & Q. RY. CO. v. WILLARD.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ship is fatal and cannot be overlooked by the court, even
if the parties fail to call attention to the defect, or consent
that it may be waived." In Kentucky v. Powers, 201 U. S.
1, 35, it was said that this court "must see to it that they
[the subordinate courts of the United States] do not usurp
authority not affirmatively given to them by acts of Congress"-citing M. C. & L. M. Ry.. Co. v. Swan, 1.1 U. S.
379, 382. In Perez v. Fernandez, 202 U. S. 80, 100, which
came to this court from the District Court of the United
States for the District of Porto Rico-this court upon the
authority of the Swan and other cases cited-held that
"where the jurisdiction fails the objection can be raised
in this court; if not by the parties, then by the court itself." There are many other authorities to the same effect,
but we cite a few of the additional cases: King Bridge Co.
v. Otoe Co:, 120 U. S.225; Continental Ins. Co. v. Rhoads,
119 U. S. 237; Peper v. Fordyce, Ib.469; Blacklock v.
Small, 127 U. S.. 96, 103, 105; Me/calf v. Watertown, 128
U. S.586, 587; Crehore v. Ohio &c. Railway Co., 131 U. S.
240, 242; Graves v. Corbin, 132 U. S. 571, 589; Ned v. Pennsylvania Co., 157 U. S.153; Continental Nat. Bank v. Buford, 191 U. S. 119, 120.
We now come to the question of jurisdiction upon its
merits. If, under the statutes relating to the jurisdiction
of the Federal courts, and upon the facts as disclosed by
the record and litigated, the Circuit Court could not have
taken cognizance of the'case, then, according to the authorities above cited, it was the duty of the Circuit Court of
Appeals, upon its own motion and without regard to the
wishes of the parties or of either of them, to reverse the
Judgment of the trial court, with directions to remand the
case to the state court.
'We are of opinion that the Circuit Court could not
properly take cognizance of this case. The action wts
brought by a citizen of Illinois against two comnpaniesone a corporation of Iowa and the other a corporation of

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

Illinois. It is said that as, long before the injury complained of, the Illinois corporation, the legal owner of the
railroad in question, had leased to the Iowa company.its
road, with its property, rights, privileges, yards, stations,
etc., appertaining thereto (excepting only the lessor company's franchise to be a corporation), and was in nowise,
by its agents or servants, in the control of the road or of its
operations at the time the plaintiff's intestate was killed,
the making of that corporation a party defendant in order
to defeat the removal of the case to the Federal court
was fraudulent and improper. A complete answer to this
suggestion is that by the settled law of Illinois at the time
the injury in question was received the lessor company
of Illinois, although it had ceased to operate the road, was
liable with the lessee company in such an action as this.
The cause of action arose in Illinois, and it was entirely
competent for that State in the exercise of its governmental
powers to say that one of its own corporations, operating
a railroad within its limits, by its authority, shall not, by
leasing its road and property, be freed from liability for
damages for which it would have been legally liable under
its charter had it not made such lease.
In C. & G. T. Ry. Co. v. Hart, 209 Illinois, 414, the Supreme Court of Illinois, after referring to Elliott on Railroads, in which it is'admitted that the weight of authority
was that the lessor company, unless expressly exempted
by statute,- was liable for injuries caused by the negligence of the lessee company, its agents and servants, said:
'We think this court is committed to the view held by
the current of authorities on the question, and, moreover,
that, in sound reason and as the better public policy,
the doctrine should be maintained that the lessor company shall be required to answer for the consequences of
the negligence of the lessee company in the operation of
the road, not only to the public, but also to servants of
the lessee company who have been injured by actionable

CHI., B. & Q. RY. CO. v. WILLARD.
220 U. S.

423

Opinion of the -Court.

negligence of the lessee company. The charter -of the
lessor company empowered it to construct this line of.
railroad and operate trains thereon. It became its duty
to exercise those chartered powers, otherwise they would
become lost by non-user. The statute authorized it to
discharge that duty through a lessee, and it adopted that
means of performing the duty which the State had created
it to perform. The statute which authorized it to operate its road by means of a lessee did not, however, purport
to relieve it of the obligation to serve the public by operating the road, nor of any of the consequences or liabilities
which would attach to it if it operated the road itself.
(3 Starr & Cur. Stat., 1896, p. 3247.) Statutory permission to lease its road does not relieve a railroad company
from the obligations cast upon it by its charter unless such
statute expressly exempts the lessor company therefrom.
(Balsley v. St. Louis, Alton and Terre Haute Railroad Co.,.
119 Illinois, 68.) While the duty which rests upon the
lessor companies to operate their roads is an obligation
which they owe to the public, the permission given by the
legislature, as the representative of the public, to perform that duty through lessees has no effect to absolve
such companies from the duty of seeing that the lessee
company provides and maintains safe engines and cars,
and that the employ6s of the lessee companies to whom
is entrusted the operation of their roads are competent
and that they perform the duties devolving upon them
with ordinary care and skill, for upon the character and
condition of safety of such engines and cars and on the
competency and care of such employs depend the lives
and property of the general public. As a matter of public
policy such lessor companies are to be charged with the
duty of seeing that the operation of the road is committed
to competent and careful hands. The General Assembly
of this State, though willing to permit railroad companies
to operate their lines of road by lessees, refrained from re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

lieving the lessor companies from any of their obligations,
duties or liabilities. Therefore it is that though a railroad company may, by lease or qtherwise, entrust the execution of its chartered powers and duties to a lessee company, this court has expressed the view [that] the lessee
company, while engaged in exercising spch chartered privileges or chartered powers of the railroad company, is to
be regarded as the servant or agent of the lessor company."
In West Chicago Street R. R. Co. v. Horne, 197 Illinois,
250, 251, the state Supreme Court said that "the law is
well settled that when an injury results from the negligence or unlawful operation of a railway, whether by the
corporation to which the franchise is granted or by another corporation which the proprietary company authorizes or permits to use its tracks, both the lessor and the
lessee are liable to respond in damages to the party injured "-citing Pennsyli'aniaCo. v. Ellett, 13 Illinois, 654;
Chicago and Erie Railroad Co. v. Meech, 163 Illinois, 305.
In the Ellett Case, the language of the court was: "The law
has become settled in this State, by an unbroken line of
decisions, that the grant of a franchise, giving the right
to build, own and operate a railway, carries with it the
duty to so use the property and manage and control the
railroad as to do no unnecessary damage to the person
or property of others; and where injury results from the
negligent or unlawful operation of the railroad, whether
by the corporation to which the franchise is granted, or
by another corporation, or by individuals whom the owner
authorizes or permits to use its tracks, the company owning the railway and franchise will be liable." Many cases
in Illinois were cited by the state court in support of its
view.
It is thus made clear that if the plaintiff had any cause
of actioi on account of the injury in question he could
bring a joint action in an Illinois court against the lessor
and lessee companies. Whatever liability was incurred

CHI., B. & Q. RY. CO. v. WILLARD.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

on account of the death of the plaintiff's intestate could,
at the plaintiff's election, be asserted against both companies in one joint action, or, at his election, against either
of them in a separate action. In Powers v. Chesapeake &
Ohio Ry. Co., 169 U. S. 92, 96, 97, which was an action
against a railroad company and several of its servants for
negligence resulting in an injury alleged to have been
caused by the joint negligence or carelessness of all the
defendants, the court, speaking by Mr. Justice Gray, said:
"It is well settled that an action of tort, which might have
been brought against many persons or against any one or
more of them, and which is brought in a state court against
all jointly, contains no 'separate controversy which will
authorize its removal by some of the defendants into the
Circuit Court of the United States, even if they file separate answers and set up different defenses from the other
defendants, and allege that they are not jointly liable with
them, and that their own controversy with the plaintiff
is a'separate one; for, as this court has often said, 'A defendant has no right to say that an action shall be several
which the plaintiff seeks to make joint.' A separate defense may defeat a joint recovery, but it cannot deprive
a plaintiff of his right to prosecute his suit to final decision
in his own way.. The cause of action is the subject-matter
of the controversy, and that is, for all the purposes of the
suit, whatever the plaintiff declares it to be in his pleadings"-citing Pirie v. Tvedt, 115 U. S.41, 43; Sloane v.
Anderson, 117 U. S.275; Little v. Giles, 118 U. S. 596,
600, 601; Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Wangelin,
132 U. S. 599; Torrence v. Shedd, 144 U. S. 527, 530;
Connell v. Smiley, 156 U. S. 335, 340.
In the case of Alabama Great Southern Ry.v. Thompson,
200 U. S.206, 216, 218, after referring to L. & N. R. R.
Co. v. Ide, 114 U. S. 52, in which Chief Justice Waite said
that a defendant had no right to say that an action shall
be several which a plaintiff elects to make joint, this court,

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

speaking by Mr. Justice Day said: "The language is used
of an action begun in the state court, and it is recognized
that the plaintiff may select his own manner of bringing
his action and must stand or fall by his election. If he has
improperly joined causes of action he may fail in his suit;
the question may be raised by answer and the right of the
defendant adjudicated. But the question of removability
depends upon the state of the pleadings and the record
at the time of the application for removal, Wilson v. Oswego Township, 151 U. S. 56, 66, and it has been too frequently decided to be now questioned that the plaintiff
may elect his own method of attack, and the case which he
makes in his declaration, bill or complaint, that being the
only pleading in the case, is to determine the separable
character of the controversy for the purpose of deciding
the right of removal," citing the above cases, and in addition Louisville & Nashville Railroad Co. v. Ide, 114 U. S.
52; Graves v. Corbin, 132 U. S. 571; East Tennessee, V.
& G. R. R. v. Grayson, 119 U. S. 240; Chesapeake & Ohio
R. R. v. Dixon, 179 U. S. 131; Southern Ry. v. Carson, 194
U. S. 136. Again, in the same case: "Does this become a
separable controversy within the meaning of the act of
Congress because the plaintiff has misconceived his cause
of action and had no right to prosecute the defendants
jointly? We think in the light of the adjudications above
cited from this court, it does not. Upon the face of the
complaint, the only pleading filed in the case, the action
is joint. It may be that the state court will hold it not
to be so. It may be, which we are not called upon to decide now, that this court would so determine if the matter
shall be presented in a case of which it has jurisdiction.
But this does not change the character of the action which
the plaintiff has seen fit to bring, nor change an alleged
joint cause of action into a separable controversy for the
purpose of removal. The case cannot be removed unless
it is one which presents a separable controversy wholly

CHI., B. & Q. RY. CO. v. WILLARD.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

between citizens of different States. In determining this
question the law looks to the case made in the pleadings,
and determines whether the state court shall be required
to surrender its jurisdiction to the Federal court."
It results that upon the face of the record the action
throughout was proceeded in as a joint action, and that
there was no separable controversy, in such an action,
entitling the Iowa corporation, as matter of law, to remove
the case from the state court. And it cannot be predicated
of the plaintiff that he fraudulently and improperly made
the Illinois corporation a co-defendant with the Iowa corporation when such a charge is negatived, as matter of
law, by the fact that the plaintiff was, as we have seen,
entitled under the laws of Illinois, where the cause of
action originated and within which the road in question
was located, to bring a joint action against the Illinois
and Iowa companies. Ill. Central R. R. Co. v. Sheegog,
215 U. S. 308, 316. He may have preferred to have the
case tried in the state court,. just as the Iowa corporation preferred the Federal court. But these preferences
or motives, not fraudulent or unnatural, were of no consequence. They were immaterial in determining whether
the plaintiff had a legal right to bring a joint action against
the lessor and lessee companies and to carry it on in that
form to a conclusion. The silence of the parties, at the
trial, or in the appellate court, on the question of jurisdiction could not, in disregard of the judiciary act, confer
authority on the Circuit Court to try the case. The Circuit Court of Appeals, therefore, properly, of its own
motion, reversed the judgment of the trial court and sent
the case back to the Circuit Court, with instructions to
remand it to the state court. Restricting this opinion to
the case made by the record before us, and as litigated,
and without' imagining cases in which the rules herein
announced might be difficult to apply, the judgment is
Affirmed.

