OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

220 U. S.

DELK v. ST. LOUIS AND SAN FRANCISCO RAILROAD COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 88.

Argued March 9, 1911.-Decided May 15, 1911.

A car containing an interstate shipment, stopped for repairs before it
reaches its destination and the cargo whereof is not ready for delivery to the consignees, is still engaged in interstate commerce and
subject to the provisions of the Safety Appliance Acts.
Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railway v. Un~tcd States,, ante, p. 559,
followed to effect that rider the Safety Appliance Acts of March 2,
i893, c. 196, 27 Stat. 531; April 1, 1896, c. 87, 29 Stat. 85; March 2,
1903, c. 976, 32 Stat. 943, the carrier is not bound only to the extent
of its best endeavors but is subject to an absolute duty to provide
and keep proper couplers at all times and under all circumstances.
Prior to the amendment by the act of April 22, 1908, c. 149, 35 Stat.
65, the carrier had a defense where contributory negligence on the
part of the party injured was the proximate cause of the injury.
Schlemmer v. Buffalo, Rochester & PittsburgRailway Co., post, p. 590.
Where the court instructs the jury to the effect that they must find
.for plaintiff in case they believe he acted as a reasonably prudent
man with his experience would have acted, but that they must find
for defendant if they believe the plaintiff acted in a manner a reasonably prudent man would not have acted, the question of contributory negligence is fairly submitted.
Where the Circuit Court rightly construed the law involved and there
was no error in the admission of evidence, and the Circuit Court of
Appeals reverses the judgment on a mistaken view of the law, there
is no reason to disturb the verdict of the trial court and the judgment
of the Circuit Court of Appeals will be reversed and that of the trial
court affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the construction of the Safety
Appliance Acts and the duties and rights of carriers and

their employds thereunder, are stated in the opinion.

DELK v. ST. LOUIS & SAN FRANCISCO R. R. 581
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Luther M. Walter and Mr. W. A. Percy, with whom
Mr. T. F. Kelley was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Edward T. Miller, with whom Mr. W. F. Evans was
on the brief, for respondent.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Fowler, with whom Mr.
Barton Corneau, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, was on the brief, for the United States as amicus
curie.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
The St. Louis and San Francisco Railroad Company, a
Missouri corporation engaged in commerce as a carrier
of freight and passengers through Tennessee and other
States, was sued in one of the courts of Tennessee-by the
plaintiff in error, Delk, for damages alleged to have been
sustained by him while engaged in the discharge of his
duties as an employ6 of the company. On the petition of
the railroad company the case was removed to the Circuit
Court of the United States on the ground of diversity of
citizenship.
The declaration contained several counts, but the basis
of the plaintiff's claim is the alleged failure of the railroad
company to provide proper automatic couplers, as required by the act of Congress of March 2, 1893, known as
the original Safety Appliance Act. 27 Stat. 531. The
company filed a plea, putting in issue the material allegations of the declaration. It also proceeded on the ground
that the injuries complained of were caused by the plaintiff's own fault in not observing proper care in doing the
work in which he was engaged when injured.
Upon a trial of the case in the Federal court there was
a verdict and judgment in favor of the plaintiff for $7,500.
The company moved for a new trial, and the trial court

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

indicated its purpose to grant that motion unless the plaintiff by remittitur reduced the verdict and judgment to
$5,000. The plaintiff complied with that condition, and
judgment was entered against the company for the sum
last mentioned. In the Circuit Court of Appeals the judgment was reversed and the case remanded for a new trial.
St. Louis & S. F. R. Co. v. Delk, 158 Fed. Rep. 931, 939,
940. Thereafter this court allowed a writ of certiorari.
The title of the Safety Appliance statute declared it to
be "An act to promote the safety of employds and travelers upon railroads by compelling common carriers engaged in. interstate commerce to equip their cars with
automatic couplers and continuous brakes and their
locomotives with driving-wheel brakes, and for other
purposes." 27 Stat. 531, c. 196.
The provisions of the act, so far as it is material to set
them out, appear in the opinion of Chicago, Burlington &
Quincy Railway Co. v. United States, just decided, ante,
p. 559. The Circuit Court of Appeals well said, iii the
present case, that while the general purpose of the statute
was to promote the safety of employds and travelers, its
immediate purpose was to provide a particular mode to
effect that result, namely, the equipping of each car used
in moving interstate traffic with couplers, coupling automatically by impact and which can be uncoupled without
the necessity of men going between the ends of the cars.
The material facts out of which the suit arises and as
to which there seems to be no dispute are these: The defendant company received lumber to be carried from
Giles, Arkansas, to Memphis, Tennessee. In order that
the consignee might receive the lumber, the car containing it was delivered, October 2, 1906, to the Union Railway Company, known as the Belt Line. But it was
promptly returned the next day to the present defendant
because of a defect in the coupling and uncoupling appliance on one end of it. The car in question was in a new

DELK v. ST. LOUIS & SAN FRANCISCO R. R. 583
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

yard of the defendant company, and was in a "string" of
nine cars on what is known as "the dead track" in that
yard. This track was called a team track, because it was
so arranged that teams might be loaded and unloaded
from alongside it.
On the morning after the return of the car, October 4,
1906, Delk, acting under instructions of the agent of the
defendant company, undertook to switch certain cars out
of the string ox nine cars, so as to get two empty cars and
three coal cars for removal to some other part of the company's line. The remaining facts upon which the Circuit
Court of Appeals proceeded cannot, that court said, be
better stated than they are in the brief for the Interstate
Commerce Commission, in whose behalf special counsel
appeared in that court. Those facts are set out in the
opinion of the court below as follows: "The cars were on
tlhe:-track extending in the general direction of east and
west, the engine being on the western end of the nine cars.
The nine cars were drawn off this team track on to the
lead track. The easternmost two cars, being, empties,
were left on the team track. The remaining seven cars
were then pushed back on the team track. The easternmost two cars of the seven cars, loaded with brick;, were
left on the team track. The remaining five cars were
again drawn on to the lead track, the three cars loaded
with coal were left thereon. The engine, with the remaining two cars, again went upon the team track, and defendant in error undertook to couple the eastern end of
the two cars attached to the engine to the western end of
the two cars just left on the team track, but owing to a
defect in the coupler on the eastern end of the two cars
attached to the engine, the coupling could not be made
without a man going between the ends of the cars. The
defect on car K. C., F. S. & M. No. 21,696 was this: The
chain connecting the uncoupling lever to the lock pin or
lock block was disconnected, owing to a break in the lock

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

pin or lock block. The drawbar also had a lateral motion of four inches. Defendant in error undertook to hold
the drawbar away with his foot from the side upon which
he stood, so that the two couplers would couple by impact. In so doing, his foot was badly injured. Plaintiff
in error had what is known as a car inspector or light repair man in the new yard. It was his duty to make repairs of the kind necessary on this car whenever found by
him. When the car was returned by the Belt Railway on
account of the defect in the coupler, plaintiff in error's inspector placed a red card about three inches by six inches
upon the car, and with a blue pencil wrote on said card,
'Out of Order.' This card is what is commonly known as
a 'bad order' card. The car had been on this team track
from 7: 30 a. in., on the third until 10 or 11 o'clock on the
fourth, when the accident to the defendant in error occurred. There was evidence tending to show that(the*
inspection was made in the latter part of the third and
that the inspector thereupon ordered an employ6 to go to
the repair shops which were some two and a half miles
distant and get the material for repairing the coupler, but
that the employ6 did not return until after the accident.
The trial court held that the Safety Appliance Act applied
to the car with the defective coupler and that by virtue of
ยง 8 of said act, plaintiff in error was denied the defense of
assumption of risk on the part of defendant in error, and
stated the language of the act to the jury."
The majority of the Circuit Court of Appeals (Judges
Severens and Richards) held that the car, with the defective coupler, was, at the time of the injury in question and
within the meaning of the act, engaged in interstate commerce. Judge Severens said: "The plaintiff in error claims
that it was not, and was laid by for repairs. But we are
inclined to think otherwise. Its cargo had not yet reached
its destination and was not then ready for the delivery to
the consignee wherewith the commerce would have ended.

DELK v. ST. LOUIS & SAN FRANCISCO R. R. 585
220-U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Its stoppage in the yard was an incident to the transportation. The injury to the coupler was one easily repaired
without being taken to a repair shop, and was being hauled
upon its tracks ,when the accident occurred." Citing
Johnson v. Southern Pacific Co., 196 U. S. 1; Chicago, M.
& St. P. Ry. Co. v. Voelker, 129 Fed. Rep. 522. Judge
Richards said: "The car which caused the injury had a
defective coupler. It would not couple automatically.
As a result, the plaintiff below, under orders, went between it and the car it was to be coupled to, and tried to
force a coupling by using his foot. In consequence, his
foot was caught in the impact of the cars and seriously
injured.

.

.

.

After the coupler became defective and

could not be coupled without going between the ends of
the cars, it became unlawful for the railroad company to
haul it, or permit it to be hauled, or used, on its line. It
then became the duty of the railroad company to withdraw the car from use, and have it repaired to conform
with the law before using it further. It did not do this,
but continued to use the car in its defective condition.
It could only do this under the penalty of the law. The
car was defective, liable at any time to cause an accident,
and it could not be kept in use at the constant risk of a
serious accident, either upon the excuse that it would be
inconvenient to withdraw it from the service, or that the
company had sent for the required appliance, and would
repair the car when it should be received.

.

'

.

This

is a case peculiarly within the provisions of the act. A
car loaded and being used in moving interstate traffic was
found with a defective coupler. The car was marked 'in
bad order,' and a repair piece sent for. After thus being
notified of its condition, the car should have been withdrawn; but it was not, and the company kept on moving
it about in connection with other cars, and finally ordered
the injured employ6 to couple it to another car. This he
tried to do with the natural result, and he has been crippled

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

for life. The case amply justifies the verdict, and the
judgment should be affirmed." Judge Lurton expressed
the view that the car in question was not employed in interstate traffic at the time the plaintiff was injured; and
he was also of opinion that that question was, under the
evidence, for the jury. We concur with the majority of
the court below that the car in question was being used in
interstate traffic when the plaintiff was injured.
Nor were the Judges of the Circuit Court of Appeals in
accord as to the meaning and scope of the Safety Appliance
Act-Judges Lurton and Severens holding that the statute, reasonably construed, did not impose on the carrier an
absolute duty to provide automatic couplers of the kind
specified by Congress, and did not subject the carrier to the
penalties prescribed, if it appeared that due care and diligence was exercised in meeting the requirements of the act.
Judge Richards was of opinion that the statute did not
make care and diligence on the part of the carrier ingredients in the act condemned, and that, independently of
any inquiry as to its care or diligence, the carrier was liable
to the penalty, if the coupler used was not, in fact, such a
one as the statute required. The Circuit Court of Appeals,
in its opinion, said that the trial court gave the law to the
jury by stating the language of the statute, but in such a
way as to lead the jury to suppose that the statute imposed an
absolute duty on the carrierto keep its cars in good order at
all times. An order was therefore made reversing the
judgment of the Circuit Court and directing the case to
be sent back for a new trial. But this court granted a writ
of certiorari and the case is here primarily for the review of
the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The construction of the statute, adopted by a majority
of the Circuit Court of Appeals to the effect that the act
did not impose upon the carrier an absolute duty to provide and keep proper couplers at all times and under all
circumstances, but was bound only to the extent of its

DELK v. ST. LOUIS & SAN FRANCISCO R. R. 587
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

best endeavor to meet the requirements of the statute, has
been rejected bythis court in Chicago, Burlington & Quincy
Railway Co. v. United States, just decided, ante, p. 559,
and on the authority of that case we hold that the Circuit
Court of Appeals erred in the particular mentioned.
One other matter requires notice, particularly in view
of the decision to-day in Schlemmer v. Buffalo, Rochester
& PittsburgRy. Co., in which it is held that under the original Safety Appliance Act, and until that act was amended
by that of April 22, 1908, 35 Stat. 65, c. 149, contributory
negligence on the part of the party injured, where such
negligence was the proximate cause of the injury, was a
valid defence for the interstate carrier. It was contended
at the trial of this case that the court erred in not instructing the jury, as matter of law, in accordance with the defendant's request, that the plaintiff was guilty of contributory negligence of such a character as to bar him from relief.
The rule upon that subject is well settled by the authorities. It is that "when the evidence given at the trial,
with all inferences that the jury could justifiably draw
from it, is insufficient to support a verdict for the plaintiff,
so that such a verdict, if returned, must be set aside, the
court is not bound to submit the case to the jury but may
direct a verdict for the defendant." Pleasants v. Fant, 22
Wall. 116, 122; Phoenix Ins. Co. v. Doster, 106 U. S.30,

32; Randall v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 109 U. S.478,
482; Con. Mut. L. Ins. Co. v. Lathrop, 111 U. S.612, 615.
In the Doster Case, it was said that where a cause fairly
depends upon the weight or effect of the testimony, it is
one for the consideration and determination of the jury
under proper instructions as to the principles of law involved. These rules being applied in the present case, we
*are clear that the court would have erred if it had taken
the case from the jury and directed a verdict for the company. The evidence in this case wasby no means all one
way. There was fair ground for difference of opinion, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

the court's refusal to instruct the jury, as matter of law,
that the evidence established the defense of contributory
negligence was right. We here give the charge of the trial
court on the issue of contributory negligence: "If you conclude that he did that as a reasonably prudent man with
his experience and his observation and the facts and circumstances in the case as I have detailed or undertaken to
state them here, and if you believe that that was (lone as a
reasonably prudent man would have done it, then he would
not be barred in this actionibut if you believe that his conduct in the manner in which he attempted to couple that
car, was such that a reasonably prudent man situated as
he was under all the facts and circumstances that surrounded him there would not have attempted to do it,
and that it was a negligent way to attempt to do it, and
such a negligent way as a reasonably prudent man with
his experience and observation would not have attempted,
then he would be guilty of negligence, and that negligence,
if you believe it, was the proximate cause of the injury,
would be such as to bar him in this action, and that question I leave to you entirely without intimating any opinion
about it." It thus appears that the question of contributory negligence was fairly submitted to the jury and it was
decided against the carrier. Upon the effect of the evidence relating to contributory negligence by the plaintiff,
the Circuit Court of Appeals declined to express any opinion, saying "as the case must be remanded for a new trial,
we need not express our opinion upon the evidence which
may not assume the same aspect upon the new trial."
In this state of the record what must be done with the
case? As the case is here upon certiorari to review the
judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals, this court has
the entire record before it with the power to review the
action of that court as well as direct such disposition of,
the case as that court might have done when hearing the
writ of. error sued out for the review of the action of the

DELK v. ST. LOUIS & SAN FRANCISCO R. R. 589
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Circuit Court. Lutcher & Moore Lumber Co. v. Knight,
217 U. S. 257, 267. In this view; the judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals must be reversed, because, for
the reasons above stated, it erred in not holding that the
statute, under which the case arose, imposed on the carrier an absolute duty to provide its cars, when moving in
interstate traffic, with the required couplers, and keep
them in proper condition, and that, too, without any reference to the care or diligence which might have been
exercised in performing its statutory duty. But on looking further into the record from the Circuit Court, we find
that no error of law was committed by that court; for it
proceeded on the construction of the statute which this
court has approved in Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railroad v. United States, just decided, ante, p. 559. Nor did
the Circuit Court commit any error in respect to any issue
of contributory negligence. It properly submitted that
question to the jury. Therefore, the reversal of the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals, on the grounds we
have above stated, constitutes no reason why the judgment of the trial court should be disturbed.
For the reason stated, the judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appealstmust be reversed; but as we do not perceive that
any error of law was committed in the Circuit Court, to
the prejudice of the carrier, the judgment of the latter
court must be affirmed.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE LURTON did not participate in the decision
by this court in this case.

