EX PARTE OKLAHOMA.
220 U. S.

Syllabus

tion, was not engaged in doing' business within the meaning of the act. It had wholly parted with control and
management of the property; its sole authority was to
hold the title subject to the lease for 130 years, to receive
and distribute the rentals which might accrue under the
terms of the lease, or the proceeds of any sale of the land
if it should be sold. The corporation had practically gone
out of business in connection with the property and had
disqualified itself by the terms of reorganization from any
activity in respect to it. We are of opinion that the corporation was not doing business in such wise as to make it
subject to the tax imposed by the act of 1909. Holding
this view, we think the court below erred in sustaining the
demurrer to the bill. The decree of the court below is
therefore reversed and the cause remanded to the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Minnesota
with directions to overrule the demurrer and for further
proceedings consistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

EX PARTE: IN THE MATTER OF THE STATE OF
OKLAHOMA, BY CHARLES N. HASKELL, GOVERNOR, ETC., PETITIONER.
No. 9, Original. Argued April 4, 5, 1910; ordered for reargument before
full bench May 31, 1910; reargued February 23, 1911.-Decided April 3,
1911.

Prohibition is an extraordinary writ which will issue against a court
which is acting clearly without any jurisdiction whatever, and
where there is no other remedy; but where there is another legal
remedy, by appeal or otherwise, or where the question of jurisdiction is doubtful or depends on matters outside the record, the granting or refusal of the writ is discretionary. In re Rice, 155 U. S. 396.
Mandamus cannot perform the office of an appeal or writ of error and
is only granted as a general rule where there is no other adequate
remedy. Re Atlantic City R. R. Co., 164 U. S.633.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Oklahoma.

220 U. S.

Where- in an action to enjoin state officers from enforcing a state
statute against articles in interstate commerce, the interlocutory
injunction can be corrected in the Circuit Court of Appeals, and
there is a direct appeal on the question of jurisdiction to this court
after final decree, an adequate remedy is provided and the writ of
prohibition could only be granted on the ground of absolute right and
this court in thiscase declines to allow it to issue.,
There is an identity of the principles Which govern mandamus and
prohibition and the latter writ is also refused in this case as there
is a remedy by review in this court after final judgment. Ex parte
Nebraska, 209 U. S. 436.

TH facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Joseph W. Bailey and Mr. Fred S. Caldwell for the
State of Oklahoma:
The injunction suits are, in effect, against the State of
Oklahoma,, and barred by the Eleventh Amendment.
Such suits attempt to control the acts of the State by
acting directly upon its public officers and controlling
their official conduct. While this would not be the case if
the state laws under which the state officers were assum- '
ing to act were unconstitutional, it is so, as the laws in
question are valid laws, the constitutionality of which
cannot be challenged. They do not attempt to subject
intoxi ating liquors; which are the legitimate subject of
interstate commerce, to the exercise of the police power
of the Stale, until after arrival within the State, within
the meaning of the Wilson Act.
The police power is not involved at all. There is no
dispute touching its operations or limitations. But an
inferior Federal court has seen fit to take exception to the
judicial power of a State being invoked in such instances.
As to the difference between "the police power" and
"the judicial power" of a State, see Slaughter House
Cases, 16 Wall. 36,.62; Munn v. Illinios, 94 U. S. 113, 124,
Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S.623, 660; Walker v. Maxwell,
68 App. Div. 196; S. C., 74 N. Y. Supp. 94.

EX PARTE OKLAHOMA.
220 U. S.

Argument for Oklahoma.

As to the status of the liquor affected by the injunctions,
see State v. Intoxicating Liquors, 71 AtI. Rep. (Me.) 758;
Rhodes v. Iowa, 170 U. S. 412; Vance v. Vandercook Co.,
170 U. 'S. 439; American Express Co. v. Iowa, 196 U. S.
13; Pabst Brewing Co. V. Crenshaw, 198 U. S. 17; Heyman
v. Southern Ry. Co,, 203 U. S.270; State v. 18 Casks of
Beer (Okla.), 104 Pac. Rep. 1093.
As their acts are supported by a valid state law, such
officers are the agents of the State, their acts are the acts
of the State and a suit to enjoin is, in effect, a suit against
the State. Osborn v. United States Bank, 9 Wheat. 738,
846; Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123, 142; and see also
Poindexter v. Greenhow, 114 U. S.270; In re Ayers, 123
U. S. 443; Pennoyer v. McConnaughy, 140 U. S. 1, 9;
Tindal v. Wesley, 167 U. S.204, 219; Fitts V. McGhee, 172
U. S.516, 528; Prout v. Starr, 188 U. S. 537, 542; Davis &
Farnum Mfg. Co. v. Los Angeles, 189 U. S. 207, 217;
Dobbins v. Los Angeles, 195 U. S.223, 241.
All search and seizure proceedings prosecuted by the
State of Oklahoma under §§ 4184, 4185 of the 1909 Compiled Laws are actions in rem, brought under a valid state
law in courts of competent jurisdiction, and, therefore,
the search and seizure warrants issued therein are in no
sense void, and fully protect the officer or officers executing the same. Dwinnels v. Boynton, 3 Allen (Mass.), 310;
Humes v. Taber, 1 R. I. 464; Walls v. Farnham, 2 Hun,
325; Sanford v. Nichols, 7 Am. Dec. 152; Small v. Orne,
79 Maine, 81; State v. McNally, 34 Maine, 210; Melcher
v. Scruggs, 72 Missouri, 408; Boston & Maine R. R. Co.
v. Small, 85 Maine, 624.
The effect of the injunctions complained of by the petitioner herein is to stay proceedings in the courts of a State
in violation of § 720, Rev-. Stat. American Exp. Co. v.
Mullins, 212 U.S. 311; Arbuckle v. Blackburn, 51 C. C. A.
122; S. C., 133 Fed. Rep. 616; Freeman v. Howe, 24 How.
451; City Bank v. Skelton,-5 Fed. Cas. No. 2739; Daly
VOL. ccxx-13
I

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Respondents.

220 U. S.

v. Sheriff, 6 Fed. Cas. No. 3553; Fisk v. Union Pacific Ry.
Co., 9 Fed. Cas. No. 4827; Haines v. Carpenter, 91 U. S.
254; Dial v. Reynolds, 96 U. S. 340; Hemsley v. Meyers,
45 Fed. Rep. 283; Whitney v. Wilder, 54 Fed. Rep. 554;
American Assn. v. Hurst, 59 Fed. Rep. 1; Fenwick Hall
Co. v. Old Saybrook, 66 Fed. Rep. 389; In re Chetwood,
165 U. S. 460; Harkraderv. Wadley, 172 U. S. 148; Cceur
D'Alene Ry. Co. v. Spaulding, 35 C. C. A. 295; Mills v.
Prov. Life & Trust Co., 100 Fed. Rep. 344; Ex parte
Young, 209 U. S. 123; Farmers' L. & T. Co. v. Lake St.
&c. Ry. Co., 177 U. S. 51.
The cases at bar are proper ones for the issuance of
writs of prohibition.
A writ of prohibition is to prevent the exercise of jurisdiction by a judicial tribunal over matters not within its
cognizance, or exceeding its jurisdiction in matters of
which it has cognizance. It is a proper remedy where the
court having jurisdiction assumes to exercise an unlawful
power. It is a remedy provided by the common law
against the encroachment of jurisdiction. Mayo v. James
(Va.), 12 Gratt. 17, 23; People v. Judge (Mich.), 2 N. W.
Rep. 919; State v. Ward, 70 Minnesota, 58; Planters'Ins.
Co. v. Cramer, 47 Mississippi, 200, 202; Johnston v.
Hunter, 50 W. Va. 52; State v. Commissioners, 1 Mill
(S. Car.), 55, 57; Washburn v. Phillips, 43 Massachusetts
(2 Mete.), 296; Maurer v. Mitchell, 53 California, 289;
People v. Commissioners, 54 California, 404; Cameron v.
Kenfield, 57 California, 550, 553; State v. Young, 29
Minnesota, 447, 523; People v. Fitzgerald, 73 App. Div.
339; State v. Evans, 88 Wisconsin, 255.
Mr. Joseph S. Graydon and Mr. Lawrence Maxwell,
with whom Mr. E. G. McA dams was on the brief, for
respondents 'nd as amici curime, in opposition to issuing
the writ of prohibition:
The writ will not issue unless it clearly appears that

EX PARTE OKLAHOMA.
220 U. S.

Argument for Respondents.

the inferior court is about to exceed its jurisdiction. In
re Fassett, 142 U. S. 479, 486; Re Engles, 146 U. S. 357;
Re Morrison, 147 U. S. 14; Re Rice, 155 U. S. 396;,Re
N. Y. and Porto Rico S. S. CO., 155 U. S. 523; Smith v.
Whitney, 116 U. S. 167, 176.
Want of jurisdiction must not appear from facts dehors
the record. Ex parte Easton, 95 U. S. 68, 77; Re Cooper,
143 U. S. 472; Re Fassett, 142 U. S. 479, 484; Re The
Huguley Mfg. Co., 184 U. S. 297; Taylor, "Jurisdiction
and Procedure of the Supreme Court of the United States,"
§§ 334, 335.
The suits were not against the State, but only against
state officials, to prevent them from enforcing against the
plaintiffs a state statute which, whether valid or not on
its face, was invalid as to plaintiffs under the state of
facts set forth in the bills on which the Circuit Court
acted. The injunctions were therefore properly granted
and certainly were not beyond the jurisdiction of the court.
Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123; Western Union Tel. Co. v.
Andrews, 216 U. S. 165.
Granting the writ will enable local officers to interfere
with the operation of the revenue laws and other laws of
the United States. See § 3449, Rev. Stat., which is part
of the Int. Rev. Act of July 13, 1866, c. 184, 14 Stat. 156;
United States 'v. 132 Packages of Liquor, 76 Fed. Rep. 367;
United States v. Campe, 89 Fed. Rep. 697; United States
v. Twenty Boxes of Corn Liquor, 123 Fed. Rep. 135.
The Federal court having first assumed jurisdiction,
will retain it to the exclusion of the state courts anid
officers as to subsequent proceedings. Hanley v. Kansas
City Southern Ry. Co., 187 U. S. 617; Adams Express Co.
v. Kentucky, 206 U. S. 135; American Express Co. v. Kentucky, 206 U. S. 139.
The Federal court, also, in a proper case may take
jurisdiction over the parties and determine for itself
whether seizures so made are legal, and after the Federal

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Respondents.

220 U. S.

court has taken jurisdiction it will by injunction or other
appropriate means prevent the state court from thereafter seizing or interfering with persons or things involved
in the Federal case. Sculley v. Bird, 209 U. S. 481; Vance
v. Vandercool'(No. 1), 170 U. S. 438; Ex parte Young, 209
U. S. 123; Western Union Tel. Co. v%Andrews, 216 U. S. 165.
In no case has this court awarded prohibition in proceedings similar to these. This is not a case in which
the court has original jurisdiction. In re Massachusetts,
Petitioner, 197 U. S. 482. The writ does not serve the
purpose of a writ of error or certiorari, and is rarely
granted where there is another legal remedy. Smith v.
Whitney, 116 U. S. 167.
Mr. S. T. Bledsoe, with whom Mr. A. B. Browne, Mr.
Alexander Britton, Mr. Evans Browne and Mr. J. B. Cottingham were on the brief, for respondents, in opposition
to relief sought:
This being a controversy between a State and a citizen
thereof, this court is without jurisdiction. Ar. III, § 2,
Const. of U. S.; California v. Southern Pacific Ry. Co.,
157 U. S.229, 258.
No such peculiar character attaches to intoxicating liquors as authorizes the exercise of the judicial power of the
States. This court has not, in dealing with the subject of
intoxicating liquors, drawn any distinction between police
and judicial powers. Rhodes v. Iowa, 170 U. S.412, 426.
The law of the State of Oklahoma cannot be made to
apply to an interstate shipment before the arrival and
delivery of 5uch shipment without causing it to be repugnant to the Constitution- of the United States. Cases
.upra and Vance v. Vandercook, 170 U. S.438, 455; Adams
Express Co. v. kentucky, 206 U. S. i29, 135; Swedes v.
State, 1 Oklahoma Crim. Rep. 245; State v. 18 Casks of
Beer, 104 Pac. Rep. 1093, 1100; see § 4753, Wilson's Stat.
Okla., 1903; McCord v. State, 10i Pac. Rep. 280.

EX PARTE OKLAHOMA.
220 U. S.

Argument for Re.spondents.

The proceedings in the Circuit Court of the United,
States for the Western District of Oklahoma are not against
the State of Oklahoma. The Oklahoma DispensaryProhibition Act if at all applicable to interstate shipments before their arrival at destination and delivery to
the consignee, is unconstitutional. Cages supra and
Heyman v. Southern Railway Co., 203 U. S.275; Leisy v.
Hardin,,135 U. S. 100; Bowman v. Chicago & N. W. Ry.
Co., 125 U. S.465; Scott v. Donald, 165 U. S. 107; Louisville & Nashville Ry. Co. v. Cook Brewing Co., 172 Fed.
Rep. 117; Davis Hotel Co. v. Platt, 172 Fed. Rep. 775;
Crescent Liquor Co. v. Platt, 148 Fed. Rep. 894; High v.
State, 101 Pac. Rep. 115.
An injunction may be granted to protect the property
rights of a person against the enforcement of an unconstitutional state statute, and may be addressed to the
persons whose duty it is to enforce the same. .Ex parte
Young, 209 U. S. 23; Davis v. Gray, 16 Wall. 203, 220;
Virginia Coupon Cases, 114 U. S. 270, 296; United States
v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196; Tindall v. Wesley, 167 U. S. 204;
Pennoyer v. McConnaughy, 140 U. S. 1, 9; Reagan v.
Farmers' L. & T. Co.-, 154 U. S. 362; Union Pacific Co.
v. Mason City Co., 199 U. S. 160; Smyth v. Ames, 169
U. S. 466; Prout v. Starr, 188 U. S. 537; McNeill v.
Southern Railway Co., 202 U. S. 543, 559; Mississippi
R. R. Comm. v. Illinois,.203 U. S.335, 340; Kansas Nat.
Gas Co. v. Haskell, 172 Pac. Rep. 545; Sculley v. Bird, 209
U. S. 481, 487; Ill. Cent. Ry. Co. v. Adams, 180 U. S.
28, 35.
The effect of the injunction complained of is not to
stay proceedings in the state courts in violation of § 720,
Rev. Stat. Norton v. Shelby County, 118 U. S.425; Ex
parte Young, 209 U. S.123; 2 High on Injunctions, 4th ed.,
§ 1308; Tex. & Pac. Ry. Co. v. Kuteman, 54 Fed. Rep.
547; In re Beine, 42 Fed. Rep. 545; Schandler Bottling Co.
v. Welch, 42 Fed. Rep. 561.

OCTO3ER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

An adequate remedy exists by appeal and the extraordinary relief sought by prohibition should for that reason be denied. In re Rice, Petitioner, 155 U. S. 402; In re
N. Y. S. S. Co., Petitioner, 155 U. S. 531; In re Huguley
Mfg. Co., 184 U. S. 297.
The Oklahoma Dispensary-Prohibition Act in so far as
it provides for searches, seizures and judgment, without
any notice whatever, and in such a limited time, is violative of the Fourteenth Amendment. Roller v. Holly,
176 U. S. 398; Fisher v. McGirr, 67 Massachusetts, 1;
United States v. Boyd, 116 U. S. 616.
The railway company is not the keeper of the conscience, nor the censor of the appetites or contracts of the
citizens of the State of Oklahoma.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
On March 24, 1908, the legislature of Oklahoma enacted
a statute, known as the Billups Bill, providing for a state
agency for the dispensing of liquors under certain circumstances, but not for use as a beverage, and prohibiting generally the manufacture, sale, bartering, giving away or
otherwise furnishing liquor within the State. Session
Laws Oklahoma, 1907-1908, ch. 69, p. 605; §§ 4180 et seq.
Comp. Laws of 1909. Sections 5 and 6 of Art. 3 of the
statute, §§ 4184 and 4185 Comp. Laws of 1909, provide in
substance that any judge of a District or County Court or
justice of the peace, upon a showing of probable cause,
may issue search and seizure warrants directed to any
officer of the county to seize liquors under the circumstances therein mentioned, and provide for a hearing as
to whether such liquors are being unlawfully held, etc.
The statute also makes provision for the forfeiture of
liquors and other personal property employed in-unlawfully trafficking in liquors.

EX PARTE OKLAHOMA.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The State of Oklahoma, through its governor, is here
complaining that "The Circuit Court of the United States
for the Eastern District of Oklahoma and Ralph 1k. Campbell, the District Judge of said district, sitting as judge of
said Circuit Court, have in direct violation of the Eleventh
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States and
contrary to and in direct violation of § 720 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States, assumed jurisdiction" in
nine suits in equity brought in said court; and the number of each case and the parties thereto are stated. The
particular proceedings had in each case are not set out,
but it is, in substance, alleged that in each the relief
sought was the enjoining of the prosecution of search and
seizure proceedings instituted under the statute above refexired to in the courts of Oklahoma and the enjoining of
the State "from prosecuting any action in its said courts,
under and pursuant to said §§ 4184 and 4185, supra, of
petitioner's said laws, against any intoxicating liquors, in
all cases where it may become necessary to try and determine any one or more" of the issues set out in the margin.1
I (a) The issue as to whether or not the particular intoxicating liquor
in question was, at the time of its seizure, a bona fide shipment made to
a person within petitioner's borders from a place outside of petitioner's
borders, which said shipment had not been delivered by the interstate
carrier under the contract of interstate shipment to the consignee at
the place of destination.
(b) The issue as to whether or not the particular intoxicating liquor
in question had been shipped from a point outside of petitioner's
borders to a place within petitioner's borders in violation of § 3449 of
the )Revised Statutes of the United States.
(c) The issue as to whether or not the particular intoxicating liquor
in question had been shipped from a place outside of petitioner's bordcrs to a place within petitioner's borders in violation of any one or
more of §§ 238, 239, and 240 of the act of Congress of March 4, 1909
(35 Stat. L. 1136-7).
(d) The issue as to whether or not the particular intoxicating liquor
in question, although shipped from a place outside of petitioner's borders to a place within petitioner's borders and in the possession of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

It is averred that the relief sought in the said equity
suits has been granted and the State and its officials are
wrongfully prevented from enforcing the statute, "and
that the State of Oklahoma has suffered and is suffering
great and irreparable injury, from which said petitioner
has no adequate remedy at law," and "that said acts of
said respondents constitute and are an unlawful and unwarranted interference with petitioner, the State of Oklahoma, in the exercise of its governmental functions and
sovereign powers in connection with the enforcement of
petitioner's said prohibition laws, . .
In substance, it was prayed in the petition that the
further prosecution of the suits and the enforcement of the
various restraining orders and temporary injunctions entered therein should be prohibited, as well as any further
interference with the prosecution in the state courts of
search and seizure process under the law in question.
As a return to a rule to show cause respondent judge
has filed an answer, containing copies of the file papers in
the equity suits referred to in the petition. The following
facts are taken from the showing thus made:
Prior to the fall of 1908, under the assumed authority of
search warrants issued for alleged violations of the foregoing statute, numerous consignments -from other States
than Oklahoma to residents of Oklahoma of liquor had
been taken from the cars or depots at stations within the
State of Oklahoma of, the Missouri, Kansas and Texas
Railway Company, while such property was in the custody
of the company, before the completion of the interstate
transportation by delivery to the consignees. Alleging
diversity of citizenship, and a continuous violation of
interstate carrier, undelivered under-the contract of interstate shipment at the time the seizure was made, is "adulterated" or "misbranded" within the meaning of the'act of Congress of June 30, 1906,
chapter 3915, 34 Stat. L. 768, commonly known:as the Pure Food and
Drug Act.

EX PARTE OKLAHOMA.
220 U. S.

Oinion of the Court.

rights protected by -theConstitution of the United States,
the unlawfulness of these seizures and the irreparable
character of the injury done and likely to be occasioned
by further threatened seizures, the railway company
commenced, on September 9, 1908, tle first of the equity
suits referred to in the petition. Twelve persons were
made defendants, as having been concerned either in the
obtaining of the various search warrants and their service,
or because in possession of property seized, or on account
of advising and encouraging the commission of the alleged
trespasses. A decree for the restoration of eighteen specified consignments, alleged to have been unlawfully seized,
was prayed, as also an injunction against future seizures.
A temporary restraining order was granted; and, ultimately, a stipulation was entered into for the return of the
property seized, and for its redelivery to the defendants
on the payment to them of its value in the event the litigation should terminate adversely to the railway company.
On September 16, 1908, the temporary restraining order
was, by agreement of the parties, continued in force until
a time to be fixed by consent for the hearing of an application for a temporary injunction. No further proceedings
were had in the case.
Four of the equity suits referred to in the petition- -three filed December 17, 1909, and one on January 18,
1910-were afterwards commenced in the same court by
the railway company. The defendants were several in-,
dividuals alleged to have actively participated in the
seizure at various stations on the line of the company's
road, like in character to the seizure complained of in the
prior suit. Such seizures were averred to have been made
under the assumed authority of the prohibition statute
heretofore referred to. In one of the suits so commenced
on December 17, 1909, a stipulation was filed to the effect
that the seizures complained of had been made by the defendants acting as constables and under the authority of a

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

search warrant, a copy of which was attached, In each of
the four cases, after hearing counsel for the respective
parties, a temporary restraining order was granted, prohibiting future interference with interstate shipments before delivery to consignees, and ordering the restoration
of the'property alleged to have been seized, except that in
one case, a portion of the seized property was ordered to
be safely and securely kept by the defendants until the
further order of the court. In each of the cases following
the allowance of.a temporary injunction a demurrer to the
bill was filed alleging in substance that the court was
without jurisdiction to hear and determine the controversy "and that the relief prayed for is sought in direct
violation of the Seventh and Eleventh Amendments of the
Constitution of the United States, and in direct violation
of § 720 of the Revised Statutes of the United States;"
and that the bill of complaint "is wholly without equity."
These demurrers have not been passed upon.
In the interval between the commencement of the first
and the last of the suits just referred to four dealers in
liquors and consignors of shipments which had been
taken from the custody of the railway company while in
course of interstate transportation to consignees in Oklahoma, under the assumed authority of the statute in
question, also commenced the other suits in equity referred to in the petition. The defendants in these suits,
designated by their official titles, were the state dispensary
agent and the sheriff, constables or other officials who had
participated in the seizures complained of in the various
bills of complaint, as also the person who held possession
of the property. The prayer of each bill was for the allowance of temporary and perpetual injunctions restraining
future seizures of liquors shipped by the complainant and
consigned to bona fide consignees in Oklahoma by railroad
until the interstate transportation had terminated by delivery of the property to the consignees. A temporary

EX PARTE OKLAHOMA.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

,restraining order was issued in each case. Thereafter, in
all of these cases, a demurrer was filed to each bill upon
the grounds which were made the basis of the demurrers
filed in the cases commenced by the railway company,
and upon the following additional ground: "That it appears from said complainants' bill of complaint that their
business operations, which they seek to have protected by
decree of this honorable court, are carried on and conducted in direct violation of the penal laws of the United
States of America, to wit, in violation of §§ 238, 2.,-39
and
240'of an act of Congress of March 4, 1909. 35 Stat.
1136-7."
The temporary injunctions issued in the suits brought
by the railway company were substantially alike and
restrained the defendants and each of them, their agents
and employs, "from entering the cars, depots or other
premises of the complainant, Missouri, Kansas and Texas
Railway Company, and from taking therefrom intoxicating liquors shipped from points outside of the State of
Oklahoma to points and consigned to persons within the
Eastern District of the State of Oklahoma, and that said
defendants, and each of them, their agents and employ6s
be restrained from in anywise interfering, with complainant in its handling and delivery of such interstate shipments of intoxicating liquors and from inciting, aiding,
abetting or advising other persons so to do." The defendants were also enjoined from taking any steps looking to
the forfeiture of the seized property.
The temporary injunctions issued in the suits brought by
the foreign liquor houses were also substantially alike and
in each the defendants, their agents, etc., were "cnjoined
and restrained until further order of this court from seizing or causing to be seized, either directly or indirectly, or
ordering or directing any person to seize any intoxicating
liquors shipped by the complainant Thixton from the
State of Kentucky to actual bona fide consignees within

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court:

220 U. S.

the Eastern District of the State of Oklahoma, while the
same is in the possession of the common carrier, and before the same have been delivered, either actually or constructively, to such consignees." In two of the cases
commenced by shippers, however, the following proviso
was inserted in the injunction order:
"Provided, however, that this order shall not apply to
any liquors shipped in violation of Sec. 3449 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, or to liquors shipped
in violation of Sections 238, 239 and 240, of the Act of
Congress of March 4, 1909, 35 Stat. 113677, or to any
such liquors which are adulterated or misbranded within
the meaning of the Act of Congress of June 30, 1906,
ch. 3915, 34 Stat. 768, commonly known as the Pure
Food and Drug Act, or to any such liquors shipped in
violation of any other Act of Congress."
In one of the shippers' cases the injunction order also
contained a provision prohibiting action by the defendants looking to the forfeiture of any of the liquors referred
to in the complaint as having been seized by such defendants.
This application for a writ of prohibition was made
practically cotemporaneous with the filing of the various
demurrers above referred to. In substance, the reasons
which caused the respondent -judge to'assume jurisdiction
over the causes and to award the relief against the defendants therein, of which the State now complains, are
not only stated in the return, but are expounded in an
opinion delivered in one of the cases which is made a part
of the return. These reasons are, in substance, made
manifest by two excerpts, one from the opinion referred
to and the other from the return itself, as follows:
"Under the facts as stipulated in this case, the shipments seized were still in the hands of the carrier, were
interstate commerce, and had not become subject to the
'laws of the State. If it be contended that in enacting the

EX PARTE OKLAHOMA.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

search and 'seizure laws referred to the Legislature intended that they should apply to such interstate commerce, then the answeris that, to that extent, the law is
invalid, because it is made to apply to a subject within the
exclusive jurisdiction of Congress. If on the other hand
it is contended that such was not the intention of the
Legislature, then the state courts are exceeding the law
in issuing such search and seizure warrants. They are in
my judgment no protection to the officer who seeks by
them to justify his acts thereunder, and to enjoin him
from executing them is not a violation of section 720 of the
Revised Statutes. The authority of the State does not
attach to shipments of the character involved in this case
until the delivery td the consignee.
*
*

**

*

*

*

*

*

"If these seizures are permitted, complainants will
either have to abandon their property so seized, or defend
a multiplicity of suits, the number of which will be determined only by the zeal of the enforcement officers in
their interference with interstate commerce. As the record
now- stands, the complainants of course must eventually
win in such suits, for upon a showing to the state court
that the property seized was still interstate commerce,
undelivered to the consignee, it would have to be ordered
returned to the complainants. It is not conceived, however, that such. a course presents that adequate legal
remedy which precludes the action of a court of equity.
Nor is it conceived that in granting the temporary injunctions complained of, respondent is violating the 11th
amendment to the Consuitution, or section 720 of the
Revised Statutes of' the United States, because the injunction may prevent one or more of the defendants
from thereafter causing such warrants of search and seizure to issue, or from executing such warrants after issuance."
It is elaborately argued by counsel for the State, first,

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

that the injunction suits complained of were, in effect,
directed against the State, and, therefore, were barred by
the Eleventh Amendment; second, that the proceedings
prosecuted under §§ 4184 and 4185 of the 1909 Compiled
Laws of Oklahoma are actions in rem, brought under'a
valid state law, in courts of competent jurisdiction, and,
therefore, the injunctions restraining the enforcement of
the search warrants were, in substance and effect, injunctions staying proceedings in the courts of the State, in
violation of § 720 of the Revised .Statutes. And as supporting this last contention, it is argued "the effect of the
injunctions here complained of is to prevent and prohibit
the 'judicial power' of the State of Oklahoma being invoked, even by the State itself, for the purpose of judicially
determining the status of any particular quantity of intoxicating liquor found within its borders, in so far as questions touching its status as interstate commerce are concerned."
Counsel who oppose the allowance of the writ urge
numerous reasons why the application should be denied,
in part as follows: "Relief it is claimed should be refused
because it is sought to review in one action the proceedings in different causes involving different parties and
issues. Attention is called to the fact that in the first of
the suits commenced by the railway company no jurisdictional objection was raised. It is argued that the bills of
complaint filed in the various suits commenced by the
railway company do not show on their face that the suits
were against state officers or that injunctions were sought
to stay proceedings in the state courts, and that in any
event the.primary purpose of the bills was to restrain
future seizures of interstate shipments before delivery to
the consignees. As to the suits brought by the four liquor
houses, it is urged that § 720 of the Revised Statutes was
not violated, as the relief granted was only against future
seizures and the suits were against state officials to prevent

EX PARTE OKLAHOMA.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

them from enforcing against the plaintiffs a state statute,
which, whether valid or not on its face, was invalid as to
plaintiffs under the state of facts set forth in the bills on
which the Circuit Court acted. It is additionally urged
that the granting of the writ would enable local officers to
interfere with the operation of the revenue laws and other
laws of the United States, as the State of Oklahoma
claims the right upon any hearing which may be had in
respect to the validity of seizures of the character of those
under consideration to determine whether the. particular
shipments were made in violation of any statute of the
United States, and although for such violations the property would be subject to be forfeited to the United States,
yet if it is found by the state court that the property had
been shipped in violation of a law of the United States
the goods would be adjudged not to have been legitimate
subjects of interstate commerce and would be forfeited to
the State. Further, it is urged that continuous seizures of
liquors in transit by state authorities for the purpose of
ascertaining whether they are or may be obnoxious to the
police laws of the State is in itself an unconstitutional
burden placed upon interstate commerce, and decisions of
this court are cited as supporting the proposition. In
addition, it is insisted that the law in question has been
construed by the Supreme Court of Oklahoma not to be
applicable to interstate shipments of intoxicating liquors
until their arrival at destination and delivery to the consignees, and because of such construction, it is urged, it
clearly results that "any officer or person seeking tb seize
or cause to be seized intoxicating liquors under the provisions of said act, before their arrival at destination and
delivery to consigpee, acts entirely outside of and beyond
the scope of said law and is a naked trespasser, and may be
enjoined."
But we do not think we are called upon to test the accuracy of these, as well as other, conflicting contentions,

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

because we are of the opinion that consistently with the
orderly course of judicial proceeding we may not pass
upon them, since we cannot do so without disregarding
the plain statutory provisions providing means for reviewing the action of the court which is complained of
and which, if availed of, would afford complete and adequate remedy.
The principle under which the power to issue the extraordinary writ of prohibition may be exerted was thus
stated in In re Huguley Mfg. Co., 184 U. S. 297, 301:
"It is firmly established that where it appears that a
court, whose action is sought to be prohibited, has clearly
no jurisdiction of the cause originally, a party who has
objected to the jurisdiction at the outset and has no other
remedy, is entitled to a writ of prohibition as a matter of
right. But where there is another legal remedy by appeal
or otherwise, or where the question of the jurisdiction of
the court is doubtful, or depends on facts which are not
made matter of record, the granting or refusal of the writ
is discretionary. In re Rice, 155 U. S. 396. And that the
writ of mandamus cannot be used to perform the office of
an appeal or writ of error, and is only granted as a general
rule where there is no other adequate remedy. In re Atlantic City Railroad Company, 164 U. S. 633."
It will become apparent from even a merely superficial
analysis that, consistently with the doctrine just referred
to, the facts which we have stated afford no basis for the
allowance of the writ of prohibition as prayed. This is
obvious because, first, an adequate remedy was provided
by law in each case, even before final judgment, for reviewing and correcting in the Circuit Court of Appeals any
error -committed by the court below in awarding interlocutory relief by injunction; second, because after final
decree, if the cases so ultimated, .adequate remedy existed
at the election of the defendants to come directly to this
court upon the question alone of the .jurisdiction of the.

EX PARTE OKLAHOMA.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

court below as a Federal court over the respective causes;
third, because even if these remedies were not resorted to
and the cases had gone to final decrees against the defendants and they had chosen to appeal the whole case to the
Circuit Court of Appeals, and that court had decided
against them, there would be either a right in this court
to review by appeal, or discretionary power, if it was
deemed that the questions involved warranted such action, to bring the whole case up for review by the writ of
certiorari. Bearing these considerations in mind it results that relief by the extraordinary remedy of prohibition, if here granted, could not possibly rest upon the
ground that there was otherwise no adequate means of
relief, but would have to be placed upon the assumption
that there was a right to the writ, even although the
party invoking it had declined to avail himself of the
.otherwise complete and adequate measures of relief which
would have been afforded by following the orderly and
regular course of judicial proceeding,
In view of the identity of the principles which govern
the right to invoke the extraordinary remedy of mandamus to correct. an unlawful assumption of jurisdiction,
and those which control the power' to issue the writ of
prohibition for the same purpose, it was perhaps unnecessary to consider the subject'from an original point of
view, since the matter is settled by authority. Quite recently in Ex parte Harding, 219 U. S. 363, the whole subject was reviewed, and it was held that discretion to issue
the writ of mandamus would not be exerted to review a
question of jurisdiction where there was otherwise adequate remedy provided by statute for the review of errors
in that respect asserted to have been committed by a trial
court. Besides, a previous decision which was reviewed
and reaffirmed in the HardingCase so completely controls
the issue here presented as to leave no room for contention on the subject. The case is Ex parte Nebraska, 209
VOL. c cxx-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Counsel for Parties.

220 U. S.

U. S. 436. That case was this. The State of Nebraska
was one of the plaintiffs in a cause removed from a state
court into a Circuit Court of the United States on the
ground that there was a separable controversy between
the other plaintiffs in the cause and the defendant. The
Circuit Court having denied a motion to remand, the
State of Nebraska applied to this court for a writ of mandamus to compel the remanding of the cause, averring that
it was plain from the record that it was the real and in
substance the onlr party plaintiff in the removed cause.
The application for the writ, however, was denied upon
the ground that the order overruling the motion to remand
was subject after final judgment to be reviewed by appeal, and therefore was not properly reviewable by the'
writ of mandamus.,
Rule discharged and prohibition denied.

EX PARTE: IN THE MATTER OF THE STATE OF
OKLAHOMA (NO. 2).
No. 10. Original. Argued April 4, 5, 1910; ordered for reargument before
full bench May 31, 1910; reargued February 23, 1911.-Decided April 3,
1911.

Writs of prohibition refused on authority of Ex parte Oklahoma, ante,
p. 191.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Joseph W. Bailey and Mr. Fred S. Caldwell for the
State of Oklahoma.
Mr. Joseph S. Graydon, with whom Mr. Lawrence
Maxwell and Mr. E. G. McAdamns were on the brief, for
respondents and as amici curie.

