OCTOJER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

220 U. S.

SCHLEMMER, NOW CRAIG, v. BUFFALO, ROCHESTER AND PITTSBURG RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 374.

Argued April 3, 1911.-Decided May 15, 1911.

Where on writ of error the case is reversed on the Federal question and
remanded to the highest state court for further proceeclings in conformity with the opinion of this court, the state court should, in
its remittitur require the further proceedings by the lower court to be
in conformity with the opinion of this court, as the matter involved
is a Federal right within the protection of this court.
If, however, the trial court on the second trial of a case reversed by
this court on the Federal question does give to the statute involved
the construction and effect given by this court, the judgment will
not be reversed because the remittitur from the highest court to
which the mandate of this court was sent, did not specifically direct
that further proceedings be had in conformity with the opinion of
this court.
The Safety Appliance Acts of March 2, 1893, c. 196, 27 Stat. 531;
April 1, 1896, c. 87, 29 Stat. 85; March 2, 1903, c. 976, 32 Stat. 943,
took away from the carrier the defense of assumption of risk by the
employ6 but did not affect the defense of contributory negligence.
There is a practical and clear distinction between assumption of risk
and contributory negligence. By the former, the employ6 assumes
the risk of ordinary dangers of occupation and those dangers that
are plainly observable; the latter is the omission of the employ6 to
use those precautions for his own safety which ordinary prudence
requires.
Under the Safety Appliance Acts, an employ6 does not by reason of
his knowledge of the fact., take upon himself the risk of injury from
a car unequipped as required by the acts-but he is not absolved
from duty to use ordinary care for his own protection merely because the carrier has failed to comply with the law; and, in the absence of legislation taking it away, the defense of contributory
negligence is open.
On the record in this case there appears to have been contributory

SCHLEMMER v. BUFFALO &c. RY. CO.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

negligence on the part of plaintiff's intestate, apart from the question of assumption of risk, and the state court denied plaintiff no
Federal right under the Safety Appliance Acts in dismissing the
complaint on the ground of contributory negligence.
222 Pennsylvania, 470, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the construction of the Safety
Appliance Acts and the duties and rights of carriers and
of their employ~s thereunder, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Frederic D. McKenney, with whom Mr. John
Spalding Flannery, Mr. Wiliam Hitz, Mr. Edward A.
Moseley and Mr. A. J. Truitt were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Marlin E. Olmsted, with whom Mr. A. C. Stamr
and Mr. John G. Whitmore were on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought in a Pennsylvania court to
recover for wrongfullyr causing the death of Adam M.
Schlemmer, plaintiff's intestate, as a result of injuries received while in the employ of the railroad company. The
case has been once before in this court, and is reported in
205 U. S. 1, 13. The injury was received while Schlemmer, an employ6 of the defendant railroad company, was
endeavoring to couple a shovel car to the caboose of one
of the railroad trains of the defendant company.
Before the case first came here the Supreme Court of
Pennsylvania had held that the plaintiff could not recover damages because of the contributory negligence of
the deceased. 207 Pa. 198. This court, reversed the
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, and remanded the case
for further proceedings in conformity with the opinion of
this court.
For a proper understanding of the case a brief state-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

ment of the facts Will be necessary. The shovel car was
not equipped with an automatic coupler as required by
the act of March 2, 1893, c. 196, ยง 2, 27 Stat. 531, and
that fact was the basis of the action for damages. The
shovel car had an iron drawbar, weighing somewhere
about eighty pounds, protruding beyond the end of the
shovel car. The end of this drawbar had a small opening,
or eye, into which an iron pin was to be fitted when the
coupling was made; this was to be effected by placing the
end of the drawbar into the slot of the automatic coupler
with which the caboose was equipped. Owing to the difference in the height, the end of the shovel car would pass
over the automatic coupler on the caboose in case of an
unsuccessful attempt to make the coupling, and the end
of the shovel car would come in contact with the end of
the caboose.
Plaintiff's intestate was an experienced brakeman, having been in the service fifteen or sixteen years. At the
time when he undertook to couple the train with the
shovel car to the end of the caboose, he went under the
end of the shovel car and attempted to raise the iron
drawbar so as to cause it to fit into the slot of the automatic coupler on the caboose. While so doing his head
was caught between the ends of the shovel car and the
caboose, and he was almost instantly killed. This happened between eight and nine o'clock on an evening in the
month of August, and while dusk had gathered it was not
very dark, and the testimony tends to show that the situation was plainly observable.
When this case was first before the Supreme Court of
Pennsylvania, that court expressed doubt as to whether
the act of Congress applied in actions of negligence in the
courts of Pennsylvania, and the judgment on the nonsuit in the court below was sustained because of the contributory negligence of the deceased.
This court -held that the shovel car was in course of

SCHLEMMER v. BUFFALO &c. RY. CO.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

transportation between points of different States, and
therefore was being used in interstate commerce; that the
shovel car was a car within contemplation of ยง 2 of the act
of Congress; that ยง 8 of that act had deprived the company of the defense of assumed risk on the part of an
employ6; that the ruling in the Pennsylvania court upon
contributory negligence was so dependent upon an erroneous construction of the statute that it could not
stand. 205 U. S. 1, 13. As the alleged right to recover
was under a Federal statute, alleged to have been improperly construed against the plaintiff in error, the case
presented a claim of Federal right, a denial of which was
reviewable here, and the case, for the reason stated, was
reversed by this court and sent back for further proceedings in conformity with the opinion of this court.
We find no occasion to depart from the former decision,
and will proceed to examine the record as now presented,
which, in material respects, differs from the one previously
before the court. It is first objected by the plaintiff in
error that the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania remanded
the case to the lower court for trial contrary to the mandate' sent down upon the reversal by this court. The
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania remitted the case, after
receipt of the mandate from this court, to the lower court
to be. retried "on the settled principles of contributory
negligence, as heretofore declared in the decisions of this
court "-Supreme Court of Pennsylvania. The counsel
for plaintiff in error moved the Supreme Court of Penf-sylvania to amend its judgment and remittitur so as to
conform with the mandate of this court, which motion
was overruled.
We are of opinion that the order and remittitur of the
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, in compliance with the
mandate of this court, should have required the further
proceedings to conform to the opinion of this. court, as its
mandate required, and as was within the authority of this
VOL. ccxx-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
. Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

court, the matter involved being a right of Federal creation within the ultimate protection of this court.
If an examination of the record indicated that by reason
of this mandate the subsequent proceedings in the state
court had operated to deprive the plaintiff in error of the
benefit of a trial under the Federal statute properly construed, we should be constrained to reverse the case. But
an examination of the record discloses that the trial judge
regarded the decision of this court as settling the right of
the plaintiff in error to rely upon the Federal statute in
question, and as conclusive of the fact that the shovel car
was being employed in interstate commerce at the time of
the injury, and was a car within the meaning of the act,
and that assumption of risk was no defense to the action.
So, it does not appear that the form of mandate sent down
by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, after the case was
reversed here, worked to the prejudice of the plaintiff in
error.
The trial court submitted the case to the jury upon the
issues joined under the Federal statute, including the
question whether the plaintiff's intestate at the time of the
injury had been guilty of contributory negligence. Under
these instructions the jury found a verdict for the plaintiff.
The court then granted a rule to show cause why judgment should not be rendered non obstante veredicto, which
motion was granted, and an opinion delivered, in which the
judge held that the testimony did not warrant the conclusion that in making the coupling the risk was so obvious
that an ordinarily careful and prudent brakeman would
not have undertaken, it; and therefore under the statute,
assumption of risk was no defense, but reached the conclusion that the deceased was guilty of contributory negligence in failing to exercise care according to the circumstances in making the coupling in the way he attempted
to make it, and in not adopting a safer way, which was
pointed out to him at the time.

SCHLEMMER v. BUFFALO &c. RY. CO.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Upon the second appeal the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania affirmed the judgment of the trial court, saying:
"Per Curiam: It is the settled law of Pennsylvania that
any negligence of a party injured, which contributed to his
injury, bars his recovery of damages without regard to the
negligence, either greater. or less than his own, of the other
party. The present is a clear case of contributory negligence within this rule. The evidence is indisputable that
the unfortunate decedent not only attempted to make the
coupling in a dangerous way when his attention was directly called to a safer way, but also did it with reckless
disregard of his personal safety by raising his head,
though twice expressly cautioned at the time as to the
danger of so doing." 22Z Pennsylvania, 470.
The case is now here upon a petition in error to reverse
this judgment of affirmance. The statute at the time of the
injury complained of took away assumption of risk on the
part of the employ6 as a defense to an action for injuries
received in the course of the employment. The defense
of contributory negligence was not dealt with by the
statute..
When the case was here before we did not find it necessary to pass upon the question whether contributory negligence on the part of an injured employ6 would be a defense to an action under the law as it then stood, for upon
the record as then presented the court was of opinion that
to sustain the defense of contributory negligence would
amount to a denial to the plaintiff of-all benefit of the statute which made the assumption of risk no longer a defense.
While, as was said in the case when here before, assump1 By the third section of the act of April 22, 1908, 35 Stat. 65, c. 149,
amending the Employers' Liability Act, no employ6 injured or killed
is to be held guilty of contributory negligence in any case where the
violation by- a common carrier of any statute enacted for the safety
of employds contributed to the injury or deach of such employ6.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

tion of risk sometimes shades into negligence as commonly understood, there is, nevertheless a practical and
clear distinction between the two. In the absence of
statute.taking away the defense, or such obvious dangers
that no ordinarily prudent person would incur them, an
employe is held to assume the risk of the ordinary dangers
of the occupation into which he is about to enter, and also
those risks and dangers which are known, or are so plainly
observable that the em ploy6 may be presumed to know
of them, -and if he continues in the master's employ without objection, he takes upon himself the risk of injury from
such defects. Choctaw, Oklahoma &c. R. R. Co. v'. McDade, 191 U. S. 64, 67, 68, and former cases in this court
therein cited.
Contributory negligence, on the other hand, is the omission of the employ6 to use those precautions for his own
safety which ordinary prudence requires. (See in this
connection Narramore v. Cleveland &c. R. R. Co., 37 C. C.
A. 499,.506.)
Tn the present case, the statute of Congress expressly
provides that the employ6 shall not be deemed to have assumed the risk of injury if such is occasioned by his continuing in the employ of the carrier after the unlawful use
of the car or train in the failure to provide automatic
.couplers has been brought to his knowledge. Therefore,
when Schlemmer saw that the shovel-car was not equipped
with an automatic coupler he would not from that knowledge alone, takeupon himself the risk of injury without
liability from his employer.
But there is nothing in the statute absolving the employ6 from the duty of using ordinary care to protect
liimself from inj ury in the use of the car with the appliances
actually furnished. In other words, notwithstanding the
company. failed to comply with the statute, the employ6
was not for that reson absolved from the duty of using
-ordinary care for his own protection under the eircum-

SCHLEMMER v. BUFFALO &c. RY. CO.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

stances as they existed. This has been the holding of the
courts in construing statutes enacted to promote the safety
of employds. Krause v. Morgan, 53 Oh. St. 26; Holum v.
Railway Co., 80 Wisconsin, 299; Grand v. Railway Co., 83
Michigan, 564; Taylor v. Manufacturing Co., 143 Massachusetts, 470. And such was the holding of the Court of
Appeals of the Eighth Circuit, where the statute now
under consideration was before the court. Denver & Rio
Grande R. R. Co. v. Arrighi, 129 Fed. Rep. 347.
In the absence of legislation, at the time of the injury
complained of, taking away the defense of contributory
negligence, it continued to exist, and the Federal question
presented upon this record is: Was the ruling of the state
court in denying the right of recovery upon the ground of
contributory negligence, in view of the circumstances
shown, such as to deprive the plaintiff in error of the benefit of the statute which made assumption of risk a defense no longer available to the employer? To answer
this question we shall have to look to the testimony adduced at the trial, all of which is contained in the record
before us. As we have already said, the testimony shows
that the plaintiff's intestate was an experienced brakeman. A witness who is uncontradicted in the record
testified that just before Schlemmer got out of the caboose,
when he saw the train backing up, he was told: "We had
better shove that up by hand, the same as we did in
Bradford. That is a dangerous coupling to make." (At
Bradford the method of making the coupling was by
means of pushing the caboose up against the train instead of backing the train against the caboose.) To this
Schlemmer replied, with emphasis, "Back up." He then
proceeded to make the coupling, with the result stated.
Another witness, the yard conductor, testified without
contradiction, that just before the cars got together he
walked up to Schlemmer, and told him they had better
shove the caboose on by hand, to which he answered:

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

"Never mind, I will make this coupling." To which the
witness answered: !'Well, you will have to get down."
Witness testified that he called to him twice to get down,
the last time not more than a second possibly a couple of
seconds, before he was injured. This witness furthermore
testified that he had a sufficient crew to push the caboose
up by hand, that there was plenty of force to shove the
caboose up in that way; that that was a great deal safer
way to make the coupling than backing on to the caboose.
The testimony further shows that there was plenty of
room under the projection of the shovel car to operate
the drawbar and raise it up. In fact, in this manner, the
coupling was made a few minutes after the unfortunate
occurrence which resulted in the death of the deceased.
As the record is now presented there is no proof in the
case that the deceased was ordered to make the coupling
in the manner he did, and there is testimony to the effect
that just before the injury the conductor in charge of the
train said to the deceased: "Mr. Schlemmer, you be very
careful now, and keep your head down low, so as n6t to
get mashed in between those cars." He said he would.
In view of this record we cannot say that the court, in
denying a recovery, to the plaintiff upon the ground of
contributory negligence of the deceased denied to her any
rights secured by the Federal statute. Entirely apart
from the question of assumption of risk, which, under the
law, could not be a defense to the plaintiff's action, as the
law then stood there remained the defense of contributory
negligence.
After an examination of the record s now presented,
containing testimony not adduced at the former trial,
we are constrained to the conclusion that there was ample
ground for saying, as both the trial court and the Supreme
Court of the State of Pennsylvania did, that the decedent
met his death because of his unfortunate attempt to make
the coupling in a dangerous way, when a safer way was at

SCHLEMMER v. BUFFALO &c. RY. CE.
220 U. S.

599

Opinion of the Court.

the time called to his attention. Furthermore, he was injured in spite of repeated cautions, made at the time, as to
the great danger of being injured if he raised his head in
attempting to make the coupling in the manner which he
did.
As we have said, the Federal question in the record, and
the only one which gives us jurisdiction, is: Did the trial
and judgment deprive the plaintiff in error of rights secured by the Federal statute? The views which we have
expressed require that the question be answered in the
negative.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania is
Affirmed.

