OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

220 U. S.

the seizure of property subject to the police power of the
State."
It is manifest that the reasons which led to the refusal
to issue the writ in No. 9, Original, just decided, are applicable to and control this case) and the order therefore
will be
Rule discharged and prohibition denied.

MARTINEZ v. INTERNATIONAL BANKING
CORPORATION.
SAME v. SAME.
APPEALS FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE
ISLANDS.

Nos. 79, 80. Argued March 3, 6, 1911.-Decided April 3, 1911.
The value of the matter in dispute in this court is the test of jurisdiction. Hilton v. Dickinson, 108 U. S. 165.
Where the only question is the amount of indebtedness, which the
security was sold to satisfy, that is the measure of the amount in
controversy, and the counterclaim for return, of the property sold
cannot be added to the amount of the debt to determine the amount
in controversy and give this court jurisdiction. Harten v. L6ffler,
212 U. S. 397, distinguished.
The mere fact that suits are tried together for convenience does not
amount to a cnsolidation, and where the understanding of the trial
judge was thai there was no consolidation this court will not unite
the actions so that the aggregate amount will give jurisdiction.
A judgment of the intermediate appellate court reversing and remanding with instructions to enter judgment for plaintiff in accordance with its decision without fixing a definite amount is not such
a final judgment as will give jurisdiction to this court.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

MARTINEZ v. INTER. BANKING CORPORATION. 215
220 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

Mr. Howard Thayer Kingsbury and Mr. Frederic R.
Coudert, with whom Mr. Paul Fuller was on the brief, for
appellant:
This court has jurisdiction of both appeals, with power
to review the facts. as well as the law.
Where the court below has rendered a judgment in
favor of plaintiff for less than the jurisdictional amount
and has also dismissed a counterclaim interposed by the
defendant, who seeks to review the judgment, the amount
of the judgment, and the amount sued for in the counterclaim, are in dispute and if the two together make up the
requisite amount, this court has jurisdiction. See Harten
v. Lbffler, 212 U. S. 397; Buckstaff v. Russell, 151 U. S.
626; Block v. Darling, 140 U. S. 234; Lovell v. Cragin,
136 U. S. 130; Dushane v. Benedict, 120 U. S. 630.
So in case of cross appeals, Walsh v. Mayer, 111 U. S.
31.
The decree in No. 79 is substantially one of foreclosure
and sale. Such a decree has been expressly held by this
court to be final. Whiting v. United States Bank, 13 Pet.
6, 15. Nothing remained for the court below to do except,
to carry out the judgment. The direction to sell the
Germana, if the judgment was not otherwise paid, was
absolute, and the sale would not een require confirmation by the court.
In No. 80 the judgment appealed from settled the
whole law of the case and fixed the rights of the parties,
leaving nothing for the. court below to do except of a
ministerial character. The dispositive portion of the
judgment was an absolute direction for the specific performance of the agreement sued on, by -the execution of
an instrument in the form specified by the court. Thomson v. Dean, 7 Wall. 342; Forgay v. Conrad, 6,How. 201;
French v. Shoemaker, 12 Wall. 86, 98; Hill v. Chicago &
Evanston R. R. Co., 140 U. S. 52; see 32 Stat. 695, quoted
in De la Rama v. De la Rama, 201 U. S. 305.
-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

Mr. Henry E. Davis for appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
These are two suits commenced in the Court of First Instance of the city of Manila on the same day, February 25,
1905, and numbered in that court as cases Nos. 3363 and
3365, respectively. In each suit the International Banking Corporation was plaintiff and Francisco Martinez and
another person as the guardian of Martinez were defendants. After the present appeals were taken Martinez died
and his administrator has been substituted in his stead.
We shall separately summarize the proceedings below
in the two cases to the extent it is necessary to do so to
understand the proper disposition to be made of the appeals.
Case No. 79 was a suit of an equitable nature brought
by the .bank against Martinez to foreclose a mortgage
upon the steamer Germana, sell the steamer, and collect
an alleged debt of 30,000 pesos, claimed to be secured
thereby. By the answer and cross bill it was asserted that
at the time of executing the mortgage Martinez was
mentally incapacitated, and hence legally incompetent;
that the whole transaction was Void for fraud, duress and
,conspiracy; that the alleged indebtedness was a part of the
subject-matter of the instrument sued on in the other case,
the effect of which instrument was to supersede the mortgage sued on in this, and that plaintiff had wrongfully
taken and held possession of the steamer and refused to
account for its profits. As affirmative relief the setting
aside of the whole transaction was demanded, as also the
return of the steamer and an accounting of its pr6fits.
The Court of First Instance in substance sustained these
defenses, dismissed the plaintiff's suit, and directed a return of the steamer.

MARTINEZ v. INTER. BANKING CORPORATION. 217
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

It was recited in the judgment: "This case was tried
together with case No. 3365, it being agreed that the evidence taken on the trial pertinent to either or both cases
should be considered by the court in the respective cases."
On appeal the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands
reversed this judgment,. held that the transaction was
valid, and entered the following judgment:
'"It is ordered that the judgment appealed
from the
Court of First Instance of. the city of Manila, dated
March 29, 1906, be, and the same is hereby reversed, and
the record r emanded to the court from which it came,
with directions to that court to enter judgment in favor of
the plaintiff, and against the defendants, Francisco Martinez and his guardian, Vicente -Ilustre, for the sum of
P 28,599.13, and interest at the rate of eight per cent per
annum from the first day of January, 1904, with costs, and
that the steamship 'Germana,' if said judgment is not
paid, be sold in accordance with law to pay and satisfy the
amount of said judgment. No costs will be allowed to
either party -in this court."
Case No. 80.-This case was brought to recover a judgment for 159,607.81 pesos with interest, and in default of
payment for the foreclosure of an instrument alleged to be
a mortgage, the sale of certain real estate described in the
mortgage, execution in the event of a deficiency, and for
general relief. By answer and cross bill the same general
defenses were set up as in the other suit. It was further
averred that the alleged considerationis for the instrument
sued on was "padded and fictitious," contained duplications of the same item, and included the item of 30,000
pesos which was the subject of the other case; also that the
instrument sued on was not in law a mortgage, butwas an
agreement for the 'transfer of property with right of repurchase (pacto de retro) and that the defendant had
never refused to perform such contract, but that the
plaintiff had failed to perform its own obligations there-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

under; also that the plaintiff hadwrongfully taken possession of the property in question. and received its rents, and
profits. The defendant demanded that the entire transaction be set aside; that plaintiff's suit be dismissed, and
that plaintiff account for the rents and profits it had
received;
The Court of' First Instance found against the plaintiff
and rendered -judgment in favor of the defendant guardian
for the gross amount of the rents adjudged to have been
unlawfully 'collected by the plaintiff. The case was appealed to the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands,
and was there docketed as case No. 3472. The appellate
court held "that the evidence is not sufficient to establish
any of the defenses or counterclaims," and "that the de-.
fendant, Martinez,. at 'the time the action' was commenced, was indebted- to the 'plaintiff- in at least the sumof, P 159,607.81 was. fully- established by the evidence."
The court, however, decided that the'instrument'claimed
to be a mortgage was not such, -but was "a promise. to sell

real estate upon certain terms, and contemplates a subsequent' contract of sale which should' cont'in the terms
stated in this document,"' and that sufficient facts were
stated in*the -complaint, "to constitute a good cause of
action for the specific performance of' the contract."
After referring to the fact that plaintiff had been in possession of certain of the real property described in the complaint and collected rentals therefrom,' the court concluded its opinion 'as follows:
"The net amount collected should be applied in reduction of the sum of 159,607.81 pesos, 'which according to the
evidence the defendants' owe to the plaintiff. When the
case is remanded, the defendants should have an opportunity to question the 6xp-nses claimed to have been met
'by the' plaintiff in connection with 'its possession of these
buildings, which it has deducted from the gross amount
received.

MARTINEZ v. INTER. BANKING CORPORATION. 219
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"After a consideration of the whole case, we hold that
the plaintiff is entitled to a judgment in the court below,
with costs, declaring that Francisco Martinez is justly'indebted to it in the sum of 159,607.81 pesos, less such sum
as that court may decide should be credited to Martinez
for the net receipts from the real estate in question in this
case, with interest on the balance from February 25th,
1905, at eight per cent per annum; and ordering that
Francisco Martinez and Vicente Ilustre, as guardian of
Francisco Martinez, execute and deliver to the plaintiff,
within a time to be fixed by the court, such a contract as is
contemplated by the contract of June 15th, 1903, which
should be substantially in the form of the instrument
above referred to of date of-February 12th, 1904, omitting
therefrom, however, the steamer 'Germana.' The judgment should contain a provision that whateveqr may be
realized from the sale of the 'Germana' under the judgment in case No. 3471 shall be considered as a partial payment when realized upon the amount due in this action.
"The judgment of the court below is reversed, and the
case is remanded with instructions to that court to enter
judgment for the plaintiff in accordance with the views
hereinbefore expressed. No costs will be allowed to either
party in this court."
The following judgment was subsequently entered:
"It is hereby ordered that the judgment of the Court
of First Instance of the city of Manila, appealed from and
.dated March 29, 1906, be reversed and the case remanded
to the court from which it came with directions to the
judge to enter judgment in favor of the plaintiff in accordance with the decision of this court, without special provision as to the costs of this appeal."
The present separate appeals from the aforementioned
judgments of the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands
were then taken. The petition for the allowance of the
appeal in the first case (No. 79 here; No. 3471 in the Su-

220

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

preme Court of the Philippine Islands) expressly recited
that the amount in controversy therein "is 30,000 pesos,
equivalent to $15,000 U. S. currency." It was, however,
asserted that the cause was "an incident and part of the
same transaction and controversy involved in causeNo. 3472," and that the two cases "were . . . conSolidated and tried together in the Court of First Instance." Thb appeal was allowed by one of the associate
justices of the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands.
In doing so he declared "that .
there was not a
strict consolidation of the tWo cases
"
between
the same parties by virtue of an express order of the court
and in accordance with the procedural law, and .
the amount in litigation in the first of the said cases does
not exceed $15,000 United States currency." However,
substantially upon the ground of the "connection and
intimate relation" between the cases ."the doubt .produced by reasons advanced as to whether or not the. appeal interposed in case No. 3471 is admissible, notwithstanding the fact that the amount involved does not
reach the sum of $25,000 Vnited States currency" was
left to be determined by this court. The appeal in the
second case was allowed by the same justice, it being re-:
cited that it appeared "that the amount involved exceeds $25,000.United States.currency."
In the argument:at bar counsel for appellee moved that
the :two appeals be dismissed for want of jurisdiction in
"this court. We, therefore, first proceed to consider this
question.
The claim of want of jurisdiction in 'No. 79 is based
upon the. contention, that the questions presented in the
case could only be reviewed provided the value of the
matter in controversy excleeds $25,000 -(ยง10,ch. 1369, act
July 1, 902,. 32 Stat. 691, 695) and that the value is less
-thanthat sum. We are of opinion that the objection is well
taken. True, it is contended for the appellant that the

MARTINEZ v. INTER. BANKING CORPORATION. 221
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

amount awarded to the plaintiff by the Supreme Court of
the Philippine Islands was 28,599.13 pesos and interest, and
that the defendants' counter-claim -for the vessel and the
receipts from the use of the same amounted to 38,000.00
pesos, and that the two amounts should be aggregated in
determining the value of the matter in controversy. The
case of Harten v. Lbffler, 212 U. S. 397, is cited as authority. But conceding that cases may arise where the amount
of a judgment in favor of a plaintiff may be combined
with the sum demanded in -adismissed counter-claim of a
defendant to determine whether the jurisdictional value
exists, manifestly this is not a case for the application of
the doctrine. The value, of the matter in dispute in this
court is the test of our jurisdiction. Hilton v. Dickinson,
108 U. S.165. What, therefore, is that matter is the question to be considered. Plainly, it is whether Martinez was
indebted to the bank, as adjudged below, since if the indebtedness existed the amount thereof is the extent of the
loss which, the estate of Martinez can sustain, because,
irrespective of what might be the proceeds of sale of the
vessel or of other property of the estate of Martinez, if
realized upon, no more of such proceeds could be taken
than would be. sufficient to satisfy the judgment. The
jurisdictional value, however, plainlywould not exist even
if the vessel and its profits were treated as the matter in
dispute, since, as we have seen, the appellant only asserts
that the value of the vessel and the profits aggregated
38,000'pesos, less than $25,000. See, in this connection,
the case of Peyton v. Robertson, 9 Wheat. 527, approvingly cited in the Hilton Case, supra.
We are unable to assent to the view that the case should
be treated as having been consolidated with No. 80; in
other words, that the two cases are in reality but one.
The suits were separately commenced, and although tried
together this was done forconvenience and the cases were
tried not upon the theory that they were consolidated, but

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U..S.

as being separate and distinct suits. Thus, it is recited in
the record that at the tommencement of the trial, on
February 28, 1906, it was stipulated "that these two
cases, Nos., 3363 and 3365; may be tried together and that
the defendants may amend their answer in 3365 as soon
as they have opportunity as of this date." Again, in the
course of the examination of one Taylor, a witness for the
plaintiff, counsel for the defendant objected to a questipn,
whereupon 'the following colloquy ensued.
"Mr. Odlin. We are trying both'cases together, but I
can take him off the stand and put him back.
"Mr. Gibbs. If this question is asked with reference to
3365, I desire to make the further objection to the introduction of the evidence, for the reason that the complaint
in that case does not state a cause of action."
The understanding of the trial judge that there was ii
fact no consolidation of the two cases is evidenced by
the judgment which was entered by him, and that the
Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands entertained the
same view is shown by the-judgment which it entered,
As to No. 80. The objection is that the judgment of the
Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands is not a final one.
This objection must prevail for the reason jaat although
involving a decision upon the merits of the case, the judgment of the -Supreme Court contemplates and requires
further proceedings in the lower court not inconsistent
with its opinion. Clark v. Roller, 199 U. S. 541. The
Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands did not in its
judgment, as Was done in the judgment entered in case
No. 79, fix and determine the precise amount for which the
trial court should enter judgment. On the contrary, its
direction was that judgment be entered "in'.favor of the
plaintiff in accordance with the decision of this court."
On referring to the opinion it is seen that the Supreme
Court deemed that the plaintiff was entitled to a judicial
determination of the amount of the indebtedness of Mar-

MARTINEZ v. INTER. BANKING CORPORATION. 223
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tinez to it. It is patent that the court found that the
exact amount could not be determined without further
proceedings, since it in effect left the case open in the trial
court for a hearing upon the question of the amount of
expenses incurred by the bank in and about the real
property of Martinez of which it had taken possession.
Thus, in the opinion of the appellate court, it was said:
"The net amount collected should be applied in reduction of the sum of 159,607.81 pesos, which according to the
evidence the'defendants owe to the plaintiff. When the
case is remanded the defendants should have an opportunity to question the expenses claimed to have been met
by the plaintiff in connection with its possession of these
buildings, which it has deducted from the gross amount
received."
It follows that although the appellate court fixed the
-rights and liabilities of the parties, it in effect referred a
question in the case to the subordinate court for further
'judicial action; hence its judgment was not final for the
purpose of an appeal or writ of error. Drake v. Kochersperger, 170 U. S' 303; Clark v. Kansas City, 172 U. S.
334. Until, therefore, the trial court by its judgment
ascertains and fixes the actual indebtedness of the plaintiff and complies with the other directions contained in
the mandate it cannot be'said that a final decree has been
entered'in the cause. Indeed, on the very face of the decree of the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands it is
manifest that this court, if it took jurisdiction, could not
finally dispose of the case in the event it affirmed the judg,ment below, since all it could do would be to consider the
matters determined by the Supreme Court and do as that
court did, remand the cause for further proceedings in
order that the rights of the parties might be thereafter
finally passed upon. But the foundation upon which
rests the doctrine which, as a general rule, limits the appellate jurisdiction of this court to final judgments is that

224

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.

Syllabus.

220 U. S.

cases should not be brought here by piecemeal through the
medium of successive appeals.
The motio.n to dismiss the appeal in each of the eases

must be granted.
Dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

PEREZ Y .FERNANDEZ v. FERNANDEZ Y PEREZ.
APPEAL FROM .THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR PORTO RICO.
No. 110.

Argued March 17, 1911.-Decided April 3, 1911.

Where the District Court of the United States for Porto Rico has
general jurisdiction under the act of March 2, 1901, c. 812, ยง 3,
31 Stat. 953, its power to award relief because of the situation of the
property involved against non-resident defendants not found within
the District depends on ยง 8 of.the act of March 3, 1875, c. 137, 18
Stat. 472; and the iight of.absent'parties'defendants not actually
personally notified to have the -suit reopened and to make defense
depends on the proviso to that section.
Where a defendant has not been actually personally notified as provided in ยง 8 of the act of 1875, but publication has been resorted to,
. he has a-right to appear and make defense within a year, independently of whether he has had knowledge or notice of the pendency
of the action by any methods other than those specified in. the
statute; and the court has no power to impose terms -except as to
costs.

District Court of the United States for Porto Rico having permitted certain defendants niot personally notified to come in and
defend to do so but only on condition of showing they had not received the published notice, had no knowledge of the pendency of
the suit and had no meritorious defense to the bill, the order is reversed, as the defendants have the right to have the case reopened
without terms other than payment of costs.

-The

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

