MATTER OF EASTERN CHEROKEES.
220 U. S.

83

Syllabus.

fact, now'well recognized, that the pervious rock in which
the waters exist usually is of such extent as to reach much
beyond the lands of a singl4 proprietor and to constitute
a common source of supply, and, as respects the effect of
the pumping, the presumption appropriately may be regarded as prompted by the fact, before stated, that
pumping from a common supply in the rock for the purpose of collecting and vending the gas as a separate commodity usually is carried on in a manner which is calculated to affect injuriously, and does so affect, the rights
of others to take from that supply. Regarding the presumption as prompted by these considerations, as we
think should be done, it cannot be said that there is not
a rational connection between the designated facts which
must be proved and the facts which are to be presumed
therefrom until the contrary is shown. What. we have
said upon the subject of classification sufficiently answers
the suggestion or claim that by reason of the presumption
the statute discriminates invidiously between different persons in substantially the same situation.
For these reasons none of the objections urged against
the statute can be sustained, and so the decree dismissing
the bill is

Affirmed.
MATTER OF EASTERN CHEROKEES,
PETITIONERS.
PETITION

FOR

WRIT OF MANDAMUS.

No. 15, Original. Argued February 20, 1911.-Decided March 20, 1911.
Mandamus to Court of Claims to require it to modify its decree to
conform to a decree of this court and make a distribution per stirpes
instead of per capita refused on the ground of laches.
Where the Court of Claims decrees a distribution per capita, parties
who feel aggrieved thereby, and claim that the distribution should

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
-Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

be per stirpes in order to conform to the decree of this court, are not
obliged to await the completion of. the rolls on which the distribution
is to be made. They can apply at once to this court for mandamus,
Re Sandford Fork & Tool Co., 160 U. S. 247, and are chargeable
with laches if they wait and permit all the steps to be taken at great
expense and the fund disbursed, so that in case of their success the
Government might be required to pay twice; and so held in this
case.

THE facts, which involve the distribution of a fund between Cherokee Indians pursuant to decrees of this court
and of the Court of Claims, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. John B. Daish, with whom Mr. Joseph D. Sullivan was on the brief, for the petitioner.
Mr. George M. Anderson, with whom Mr. John Q.
Thompson was on the brief, for the respondent, the Court
of Claims.
MR. JusTcC

McKENNA delivered the opinion of the

court.
Petition for mandamus to the Court of Claims to require it to conform to a decree of this court modifying
a decree of that court in the case of the United States v.
Cherokee Nation, 202 U. S. 101.
A rule to show cause was issued, to which a response
has been made by the Court of Claims.
A recitation of the facts of the litigation between the
Eastern Cherokees and the United States need not be
made. They are set out in 202 U. S. 101. We are only
concerned with the decree and what took place in accordance with it in the Court of Claims. It is enough to
say that the Eastern Cherokees under the authority of
acts of Congress brought suit against the United States
for certain sums alleged to be due under treaties with the
United States, and the Court of Claims decreed May 18,

MATTER OF EASTERN CHEROKEES.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

1905, that, after deducting counsel fees, costs and expenses, the sum of $1,111,284.70, among other sums,
with interest, should be paid to the Secretary of the Interior, to be by him received and held for the use and
purpose of paying costs and expenses as stated, and the
remainder to be distributed "directly to the Eastern and
Western Cherokees, who were parties to the treaty of
New Echola, as proclaimed May 23, 1836, or to the treaty
of Washington of August 6, 1846, as individuals, whether
east or west of the Mississippi River, or to the legal representatives of such individuals."
We held that the decree, "in directing that the distribution be made to 'the Eastern and Western Cherokees' " was "perhaps lialle to misconstruction," though
limited by a reference to the treaties, and decided that
the decree should be modified "so as to direct the distribution to be made to the Eastern Cherokees as individuals, whether east or west of the Mississippi, parties to the treaties of 1835-36 and 1846, exclusive of the
Old Settlers." As modified, the decree was affirmed.
We also decided that the amount of the decree "should
be paid to the Secretary of the Interior, to be distributed
directly to the parties entitled to it." '
Upon the going down of the' mandate the Court of
Claims modified its decree, as directed, by explicitly excluding the Old Settlers in terms from its operation and
distributing the fund "to the Eastern Cherokees as individuals," omitting the words "or to the legal representatives of such individuals." And the court directed the
Secretary of the Interior to prepare or have prepared a
roll of the Cherokees entitled to share in the amount of
the decree and to "accept as a basis for the distribution of
said fund the rolls of 1851, upon which the per capita
payment to the Eastern Cherokees was made, and make
such distribution in pursuance of article 9 of the treaty
of 1846."

86

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

It is stated in the response of the Court of Claims to the
rule to show cause that the special agent appointed by
the Secretary encountered difficulties in making up the
-roll ' upon a per capita basis and otherwise," and that
the Secretary of the Interior called the attention of the
court to the difficulties and asked the following questions:
"First. Shall the rolls of 1851 be used as the exclusive
basis for the present distribution? Second. Shall the
distribution be per stirpes or per capita? Third. If per
capita, what disposition shall be made of those portions
for which there have been no applications?"
The court,. considering that its decree, as modified by
our mandate, directed a per capita distribution, ordered
the commissioner named for the purpose to "enroll as
entitled to share in the fund arising from said decree of
May 28, 1906, all such individual Eastern Cherokee Indians by blood, living on May' 28, 1906, as shall establish
the fact that they were members of the Eastern Cherokee
tribe of. Indians at- the date of the treaties of 183536
and 1846, or are descendants of such persons, and who
shall further establish the fact that they have not been
affiliated with any tribe of Inidians other than •the Eastern-Cherokees or the Cherokee Nation."
The court subsequently (as -appears from, its response
to the rule to show cause), "at the written request of the
Secretary of the Interior and sundry other persons who
petitioned therefor; as well as at the request of counsel
engaged in said cause," vacated the order which directed
the Secretary of the Interior to prepare the roll; and employed Guion Miller, who had theretofore been employed
.by the Secretary, to prepare the roll under its supervision. The roll was prepared as directed, to which exceptions were filed, most of which were overruled, and
on March 7, 1910, it was approved.
Miller was also designated as a special commissioner
to receive from the Treasury Department all the warrants

MATTER OF EASTERN CHEROKEES.
.220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

for the persons enrolled, and to visit the various localities where the Indians resided, as he had done in preparing the roll, and to deliver the warrants, Which-he did
prior to the filing of the petition herein for mandamus,
the response of the court stating as follows:.
"The money arising from said judgment was long
prior to October 17, 1910, the date of the filing of said
petition for said mandate to show cause, distributed and
paid to practically all of those on said roll, so that of the
30,827 enrolled only 313 remained unpaid, as we are advised by said commissioner, who was also intrusted,. under the order of the court, with the delivery of the warrants issued by the Treasury Department to the parties
so enrolled, respectively. Since which time 44 additional payments have been made, leaving 269 unpaid on
October 28, 1910."
The court further states that on the authority of the
special report of Miller, made for its information, pert
sons of the same name as those signing the power of attorney authorizing the filing of the petition for mandamus
were enrolled, as were those whom they claimed to represent, and have been paid their respective shares, for
which they receipted in full.
It is contended by petitioners that the treaties of 183536 and 1846 required the Court of Claims to make a
distribution per stirpes, and that in its original decree of
May 18, 1905, it was so provided. And, it is further contended, that the mandate of this court so required, and
that such interpretation was put upon it by the Court
of Claims and the commissioner appointed by the Secretary of the Interior. It is insisted that, in consequence
of the error of the court, the roll prepared in accordance
with its orders contains the names of numerous persons
not entitled under the mandate of this court to participate in the fund.
The respondent opposes these contentions and-makes

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

the counter one that petitioners have been guilty of
laches, which, if it be justified, makes a notice of other
contentions unnecessary. A summary of the proceedings shows that the contention is justified. The first
decree of the court, as we have seen, distributed the fund
to the Eastern and Western Cherokees as individuals, or
to the legal representatives of such individuals. The decree,
as modified by this court, limited the distribution to the
Eastern Cherokees, and omitted the words "or to the
legal representatives of such individuals." A question
arose as to whether the mandate of this court directed a
per capita or per stirpes distribution, and, on March 5,
1907, the Court of Claims gave notice that it would hear
the parties on the question.
The matter came on for hearing April 8, 1907, all parties being represented, and a per capita distribution of the
judgment was ordered and a commissioner appointed to
prepare the roll of those entitled to share under the decree.
This was done, and a report made to the court, to
which exceptions were filed, which "in the main" were
overruled. On March 10, 1910, the report as corrected
was approved, and the amount of the decree distributed,
as we have seen, to the persons entitled thereto.
This summary demonstrates the laches of petitioners.
If it be conceded that the mandate of this court and. the
decree of the Court of Claims as modified in accordance
with it were ambiguous, the Court of Claims decided, as
early as April 28, 1907, that it required a per capita distribution. The petitioners took, no action against the decision nor the order of distribution based on it. They
permitted the distribution to be made. And they might
have taken action. In re Sanford Fork & Tool Co., Petitioner, 160 U. S. 247, 259. Mandamus was available
then, as now, and the circumstances condemn the delay.
The amount of the judgment was to be distributed among

MATTER OF EASTERN CHEROKEES.
220 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

many thousands of persons. Such persons were to be
ascertained, their names enrolled, and payment made to
them. Every step involved expense, and the fund, once
disbursed, could not be recovered, and the United States
might be required to pay a second time.
In explanation of these circumstances, which, on their
face, make a clear demonstration. of negligence on the
part of petitioners, they urge that after the modification
on April 28, 1907, of the final decree there were other
proceedings, instancing as such the ruling, on March 7,
1910, on exceptions to the roll, and urge that "within
eighty-five days thereafter" they "secured counsel and
invoked the jurisdiction of this court for the protection
of their rights." They further urge that "until the roll
had been approved there was uncertainty what the Court
of Claims might do," and that "when the final order had
been taken the petitioners were then only at liberty to
institute the present proceeding."
This overlooks that they attack the principle upon
which distribution was decreed by the Court of Claimsin other words, their contention is that a per capita instead of a per stirpes distribution of the fund was directed
by the decree of April 28, 1907, the consequence of which
was that. "numerous persons not entitled under the mandate of this court" were made participants in the fund
and their (petitioners') shares thereby "much lessened."
Petitioners are mistaken, therefore, when they say that
they were "only at liberty to institute the present proceeding" when the roll was approved. The decree constituted their grievance, if they had any, and if it did not
execute the mandate of this court the action of the Court
of Claims in rendering it could have been reviewed and
corrected by appeal or mandamus. In re Sanford Fork
& Tool Co., supra.
Rule discharged and petition dismissed.

