SENA v. AMERICAN TURQUOISE CO.
220 U. S.

Syllabus.

Second. Whether in the various refusals to permit the
laying of crest blocks stated in Finding VII the inspector
in charge acted in good faith.
Third. Whether at any time the claimant notified the
engineer officer in charge or the chief of engineers that the
inspector in charge wrongfully refused to permit the laying of the crest blocks, and if such notice was given,
whether it was oral or written, when the notice or notices
were given, and what action, if any, was taken by such superior officer.

And it is further ordered that the said record, with the
said additional findings of fact, be returned to this court
with all convenient speed.

SENA v. AMERICAN TURQUOISE COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
NEW MEXICO.

No. 73.

Argued April 18, 19.11.-Decided May 1, 1911.

In an action of ejectment in New Mexico, the trial court was of opin-ion that the boundaries under which plaintiff claimed did not include the land in dispute, and the Supreme Court of the Territory
affirmed on the ground of defect in plaintiff's grant and that the
evidence as to possession was too vague to raise a presumption in
place of proof; and this court affirms the judgment.
Where both parties move for a ruling, and there is no question of fact
sufficient to prevent a ruling being made, the motions together
amount to a request that the court find any facts necessary to make
the ruling; and, if the court directs a verdict, both parties are coneluded as to the facts found, and unless the ruling is wrong as matter
of law the judgment must stand. Beuttell v. Magone, 157 U. S. 154.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
VOL. ccxx-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

Mr. Frank W. Clancy, with whom Mr. Harry S. Clancy
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Matt G. Reynolds, with whom Mr. Thos. B. Harlan
and Mr. Stephen B. Davis, Jr. were on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE

HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This ig an action of ejectment for about fifty acres in
Section 21, Township 15 north, Range 8 east in the County
of Santa Fe, New Mexico, which the defendant holds under
mining claims dating from 1885 to 1892, and located under
the laws of the United States. It was brought after the
plaintiff's failure to establish title, under a Mexican grant,
to a large tract of which this land is alleged to be a part,
in the Court of Private Land Claims and in this court
on appeal. Sena v. United States, 189 U. S. 233. Ibid.
504. The decree left open the question whether the plaintiff had a perfect or imperfect title and was without prejudice to further proceedings, as in case of a perfect title the
statute establishing the Court of Private Land Claims.did
not require a confirmation by that court. Act of March 3,
1891, c. 539, ยง 8. 26 Stat. 854, 857. RichardsonV. Ainsa,
218 U. S. 289. The former decision was put on the ground
of laches, but in the present suit the. plaintiff offered some
little additional evidence of acts indicative of possession
later than any proved before. Both parties, however,
moved that the court should direct a verdict. Beuttell
v. Magone, 157 U. S. 154. Empire State Cattle Co. v.
Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co., 210 U. S. 1. The
court of first instance was of opinion that the boundaries
of the grant under which the plaintiff claims were not
proved to include the land in dispute and directed a verdict
for the defendant. The judgment was affirmed by the
Supreme Court. of the Territory on the ground that the

SENA v. AMERICAN TURQUOISE CO.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

grant did not appear to have been confirmed as required
by a Spanish ordinance of October 15, 1752, 2 White's
New Recop. 62, 63, [*51], and that the evidence of possession, &c., was too vague to raise a presumption in place
of proof. The plaintiff took a writ of error and brings
the case here.
The grant under which the plaintiff claims was made to
Joseph de Leyba in 1728. Subject to what was said in
the former decision (189 U. S. 233, 237), the boundaries
on the north and east may be assumed to be established,
but the others give rise to the trouble. They are "on the
south by an arroyo called Cuesta del Oregano; on the west
by land of Juan Garcia del las Rivas." To translate these
words into things the plaintiff put in evidence a grant to
Miguel. Garzia de la Riba of the sitio of the old pueblo the
Cienega, dated August 12, 1701, and a grant of the same
property from Miguel to his son, Juan Garcia de la Riba,
dated March 12, 1704, the latter bounding the property on
the east by the Penasco Blanco de las Golondrinas and on
the south by the canada of Juana Lopez. He also put in
the will of a son of Joseph de Leyba, under whom the
plaintiff claims, describing the land granted to his father
as bounded on the west with lands of the old pueblo of the
Cienega. The Penasco Blanco was shown to be a known
natural object. It lies to the north of the north boundary
of the Leyba grant, but the plaintiff says that it is to be
presumed that the eastern boundary of the Riba grant,
and therefore the western boundary of the Leyba grant,
was a north and south straight line passing through the
Penasco Blanco, and that such a line would include the
land in dispute.
But there are great difficulties in the way of this conclusion. It appears that in 1788 a grant was made of
land in or known as Los Cerrillos, title under which was
confirmed by the Court of Private Land Claims. This
tract extends to the east of the line drawn by the plaintiff

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

through the Penasco Blanco, the eastern boundary extending southeast and northwest from a point north of the
northerly boundary of the Leyba grant to near the eastern
boundary of section 21 containing the lands in dispute,
as is indicated by the diagram below. There is nothing

adequate to contradict the presumption in favor of this
grant, and it at once makes impossible the hypothesis that
the Cienega, the land of Juan Garcia given as the western
boundary of the Leyba grant extended to a straight line
running south from the Penasco Blanco through the Cerrillos grant to the west of section 21. Furthermore the
southern boundary of the Cienega was the canada of Juana
Lopez. This seems to have been to the west of Los Cerrillos, and again to exclude the supposed straight line. The
southern boundary of Leyba depended on contradictory
testimony as to the existence of an arroyo of the Cuesta
del Oregans in the neighborhood and was thought by the
trial judge not to be made out. With regard to the pre-

SENA v. AMERICAN TURQUOISE CO.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

sumption as to boundaries it is to be observed
that the
northern boundary is supposed to be a more- or less irregular road, that the eastern is another road running irregularly northeast and southwest and the southern as
contended for continues the same line in a somewhat more
northerly direction, so that the outline of the supposed
grant resembles the peninsula of Hindostan.
There are other serious questions that would have to be
answered before the plaintiff could recover, adverted to in
the former decision of this court and in the opinions of the
two courts below in the present case. But as it is desirable not to draw into doubt any claim that the plaintiff
may have to other land not now in suit, we confine ourselves to the ground taken by the trial court. It seems
to us impossible to say that the plaintiff produced evidence
sufficient to disturb the defendants' mining claim and the
possession that it has held so long under the laws of the
United States. As both parties moved for a ruling, andi
as there was nothing more, according to Beuttell v. Magone,
157 U. S. 154, it stood admitted that there was no question
of fact sufficient to prevent a ruling being made, and the
motions together amounted to a request that the court
should find any facts necessary to make it; so that unless
the ruling was wrong as matter of law the judgment must
stand. But it hardly is necessary to invoke that principle
in this case.
Judgment affirmed.

