OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

220 U. S.

DIAMOND RUBBER COMPANY OF NEW YORK
v. CONSOLIDATED RUBBER TIRE COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 36.

Argued February 28, March 1, 1911.-Decided April 10, 1911.

Where a device possesses such amount of change from the prior art
as to receive approval of the Patent Office, it is entitled to the presumption of invention which attaches to a patent.
An inventor is entitled to all that his patent fairly covers,, even though
its complete capacity is not recited in the specifications and was unknown to the inventor prior to the patent issuing.
The law regards a change as a novelty, and the acceptance and utility
of the- change as further evidence, even as a demonstration, of
novelty.
The rubber carriage tire involved in this case and patented to Granit
attained a degree of utility not reached by any prior patent, iind,
although only a step beyond the prior art, is entitled to bc patented
as an invention.
Utility of a device may be attested by litigation over it showing and
measuring the existence of public demand for its use.
While extensive use of an article beyond that of its rivals may be induced by advertising, where the use becomes practically exclusive
a presumption of law will attribute that result to its'essential excellence and its superiority over other forms in use.
Elements of a combination may all be old, for in making a combination the inventor has the whole field of mechanics to draw from.
Leeds &'CallinCo. v. Victor Talking Machine Co., 213 U. S. p. 318.
On the evidence this court finds that the improvement on rubber tires
involved in this case possesses the power ascribed to it by the inventor and denied by those using it without authority, and holds
that this power was not the result of chance but was achieved by
careful study of scientific and mechanical problems necessary to
overcome defects in all other existing articles of that class.
In the courts below defendants relied on invalidity of complainant's
patent, and did n,,t press the defense of non-infringoment, and also
conceded that infringement existed in prior litigation, and this
court, holds that infringement exists.

DIAMOND RUBBER CO. v. CONSOL. TIRE CO. 429
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Qucxre whether under Kessler v. Eldrcd, 206 U. S. 285, the injunction
can extend to sale of articles in other circuits in which complainant's
patent has been held invalid.
157 Fed. Rep. 677, and 162 Fed. Rep. 892, affirming 147 Fed. Rep.
739, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the validity of certain letters
patent for improvement in rubber tires, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. Charles K. Offield for petitioner.
Mr. FrederickP. Fish, with whom Mr. C. W. Stapleton
and Mr. J. L. Slackpole were on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Writ of certiorari to review a decree of the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Second Circuit sustaining a patent for
an improvement in rubber tires issued to Arthur W. Grant,
February 18, 1896. The patent, and those which it is
contended anticipate it, have received full exposition in
the opinion of that court. 157 Fed. Rep. 677, and 162
Fed. Rep. 892, affirming 147 Fed. Rep. 739. It and they
were also passed upon and the patent sustained in Rubber
Tire Wheel Co. v. Columbia Pneumatic Wagon Wheel Co.,
91 Fed. Rep. 978, and in Consolidated Rubber Tire Co. v.
Finlay Rubber Tire Co., 116 Fed. Rep. 629; Consolidated
Rubber Tire Co. v. Firestone Tire and Rubber Co., 151 Fed.
Rep. 237. See also Rubber Tire Wheel Co. v. Milwaukee
Rubber Works, 142 Fed. Rep. 531, 533, and the same case,
154 Fed. Rep. 358, 362. It was held invalid in Goodyear
Tire & Rubber Co. et ul. v. Rubber Tire Wheel Co. (C. C.
App. Sixth Circuit), 116 Fed. Rep. 363, reversing the Circuit Court, Jhdge Wing presiding. It was also declared
invalid in Rubber Tire Wheel Co. v. Victor Rubber Tire Co.,
123 Fed. Rep. 85, following 116 Fed. Rep. 363, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

A further display of the patent and of its alleged anticipating devices would seem to be unnecessary, and that we
might immediately take up a review of the divergent decisions. There is a controversy as to whether they are
divergent and irreconcilable in fundamental conceptions
of the patent as well as in result.
We may say at the outset of this asserted conflict between the cases that the Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit considered that there was no antagonism between
its decision and that of the Court of Appeals for the Sixth
Circuit. It proceeded, as it in effect said, upon "new
facts and features which have been added to or developed
from the records in the earlier cases." However, something more is required of us than the reconciliation of
other cases, some consideration of the patent and the
state of the art prior to it.
The patent was issued to Arthur W. Grant, February 18, 1896, and he declares in the specification he has
invented "certain new and useful improvements in rubber tire wheels . . . designed for 'use on ordinary
vehicles, such as wagons, buggies, and carriages, .
and-consist in the construction of parts hereinafter described and set forth in the claim." The claims are as
follows:
"1. A vehicle-wheel having a metallic rim with angularly-projecting flanges to form a channel or groove with
tapered or inclined sides, a rubber tire, the inner portion
of which is adapted to fit in said groove or channel and
the outer portion having sides at an angle to the inner
portion, the angle or corner between the outer and inner
portions being located within the outer periphery of the
flanges, and independent retaining-wires passing entirely
through the inner portions of said tire and also within the
outer peripheries of the flanges, substantially as described.
"2. A vehicle-wheel having a metallic rim with outwardly-projecting flanges at an angle to the plane of said

DIAMOND RUBBER CO. v. CONSOL. TIRE CO. 431
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

wheel so as to form a channel or groovre having tapered
or inclined sides, a rubber tire, the inner portion of which
is adapted to fit in said tapered groove or channel, and
the outer or exposed portions formed at an angle thereto,
the angle or corner between the said portions being placed
within the outer periphery of said flanges, openings extending entirely through the unexposed portion of said
tire, and independent retaining-wires in said openings,
and a reinforcing-strip of fibrous material placed at the
bottom of said tire and wholly within said flanges, substantially as specified."
It will be observed that the tire is composed of three
elements: First, the channel or groove with tapered or
inclined sides; second, the rubber tire adapted to fit into
the channel or groove, and shaped as described; third,
the fastening device, that is, the independent retaining
wires located as indicated.
The shape and relation of the parts are illustrated in
the following figures (see p., 432) taken from the patent:

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

F,1Y

These figures explain themselves, but we copy the following from the specifications:
. "In the accompanying drawings, Fig. I is a side elevation of a wheel embodying my invention. Fig. 2 is a
sectional elevation of the wheel-rimi, shown partly in perspective. Fig. 3 is a partial longitudinal section through
the tire, showing the openings for the retaining wires.

DIAMOND RUBBER CO. v. CONSOL. TIRE CO. 433
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Fig. 4 is a transverse sectional view of the rubber tire in
detail."
It is conceded that the claims are narrow, counsel saying that they are "limited closely to the specific construction of the Grant tire as it is actually shown and described
in the patent." And a right to equivalents is disclaimed.
Indeed, a- certain merit is made of this as exhibiting at
once the simplicity and perfection of the invention and
the tribute paid to its excellence by respondent by exactly
imitating it, instead of attempting to evade it. It is
pointed out that the co-action of the parts is so dependent
upon their shape and relation that any alteration destroys
their cobperation and the utility of the tire. There is
strength in the contention, as we shall presently see.
Anticipating somewhat, we may say that the tire has
utility is not disputed; to what its utility is to be attributed
is in controversy. The respondents, the Tire Company,
contend that the tire is at once firm and mobile in its channel, "creeps" (moves slowly around the edge of the rim),
and will yield laterally, and thus the lateral blows against
it will be cushioned. It is further contended that if the
tire be "tipped from its seat in the channel by a side blow"
it "automatically restores itself to normal position when
the side pressure is released." In other words, and in the
language of one of the expert witnesses, the tire has the
capacity to rise and fall and reseat itself under lateral
strain, that is, to rise slightly from the rim on one side,
independently of the other, when subjected to very great
strain, and immediately reseat itself when such strain is
removed. "It must be borne in mind," counsel say,
"that the Grant tire is not cemented into the channel.
This is an essential and important point. Any tire that
is cemented in its channel is rigid and cannot 'creep'
or yield to lateral blows. It is, therefore, easily and
quickly destroyed. The absence of cement in the Grant
tire is a vital characteristic." And, further, that Grant,
VOL. ccxx-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

"by omitting the cement and by permitting the tire to
tip, to creep and to move in its channel, obtained a radically new and useful result." And it is insisted that this
results because the tire is a new and patentable combination of parts co-acting in the manner of a true combination to produce a new and useful result, and is not an
aggregation of old elements or parts each performing its
own function and nothing more. These propositions are
combated by the Rubber Company, and it is insisted that
the testimony is "conclusive and uncontradlicted that
the Grant tire, clamped to the tire or rim by the straining tension of the two wires," has not the capacity attributed to it, "and never could have." And it is said
that "it is manifest that this question can be easily determined as a question of fact," and that the testimony
"proves such asserted movement a myth and a fallacy."
And, it is urged, that such capacity in the tire is not recited in the specifications of the patent, and was unknown
to Grant.
This tipping capacity is made the pivot of the controversy. It was as to that that the-Courts of Appeals
for th e Sixth and Second Circuits disagreed either upon the
difference of the testimony in the cases, or more deeply,
on principle. The controversy and Grant's alleged ignorance of the tipping characteristic of the tire really
present some anomaly. The tire has utility, a utility
that has secured an almost universal acceptance and employment of it, as will subsequently appear. It was certainly not an exact repetition of the prior art. It attained
an end not attained by anything in the prior art, and has
been accepted as the termination of the struggle for a
completely successful tire. It possesses such amount of
change from the prior art as to have received the approval
of the Patent Office, and is entitled to the presumption
of invention which attaches to a patent. Its simplicity
should not blind us as to its character. Many things,

DIAMOND RUBBER CO. v. CONSOL. TIRE CO. 435
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and the patent law abounds in illustrations, seem obvious
after they have been done, and, "in the light of the accomplished result," it is often a matter of wonder how they
so long "eluded the search of the discoverer and set at
defiance the' speculations of inventive genius." Pearl
v. Ocean Mills, 11 Off. Gaz. 2. Knowledge after the
event is always easy, and problems once solved present
no difficulties, indeed, may be represented as never having had any, and expert witnesses may be brought forward to show that the new thing which seemed to have
eluded the search of the world was always ready at hand
and easy to be seen by a merely skillful attention. But
the law has other :tests of the invention than subtle conjectures of what might have been seen and yet -was not.
It regards a change as evidence of novelty, the acceptance
and utility of change as a further eVidence, even as demonstration. And it recognizes degrees of change, dividing
inventions into primary and secondary, and as they are,
one or the other, gives a proportionate dominion tG its
patent grant. In other words, the invention may be
broadly new, subjecting all that comes after it to tribute
(Railway Co. v. Sayles, 97 U. S. 554, 556); it may be the
successor, in a sense, of all that went before, a step only
in the march of improvement, and limited, therefore, to
its precise form and elements, as the patent in suit is conceded to be. In its narrow and humble form it may not
excite our wonder as may the broader or pretentious form,
but it has as firm a right to protection. Nor does it detract from its merit that it is the result of experiment, and
not the instant and perfect product of inventive power.
A patentee may be baldly empirical, seeing nothing beyond his experiments and the result; yet if he has added a
new and valuable article to the world's utilities he is entitled to the rank and protection of an inventor. And how
can it take from his merit that he may not know all of the
forces which he has brought into operation? It is certaihly

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

not necessary that he understand or be able to state the
scientific principles underlying his invention, and it is
immaterial whether he can stand a successful examination
as to the speculative ideas involved. Andrew v. Croos,
8 Fed. Rep. 269; Eames v. Andrews, 122 U. S. 40, 55; St.
Louis Stamping Co. v. .Quinby, 16 Off. Gaz. 135; Dixon
Wood Co. v. Pfeifer, 55 Fed. Rep. 390; Cleveland Foundry
Co. v. Detroit Vapor Stove Co. (C. C. A. Sixth Circuit),
131 Fed. Rep. 853; Van Epps v. United Box Co. (C. C. A.
Second Circuit), 143 Fed. Rep. 869; Westmoreland Specialty Co. v. Hogan (C. C. A. Third Circuit), 167 Fed.
Rep. 327. He must, indeed, make such disclosure and description of his invention that it may be put into practice.
In this he must be clear. He must not put forth a puzzle
for invention or experiment to solve but the description
is sufficient if those skilled in the art can understand it.
This satisfies the law, which only requires as a condition
of its protection that the world be given something new
and that the world be taught how to use it. It is no concern of the world whether the principle upon which the
new construction acts be obvious or obscure, so that it
inheres in the new construction.
This discussion may be broader than the contention of
the Rubber Company requires; indeed, may imply a misunderstanding of it. The contention may only mean that
Grant did .not discern the manner of the operation of the
elements which he combined, and therefore did not really
invent any thing, only assembled old elements, changing
their relations somewhat and retaining- their essential
character and effect. We should be slow to infer such
ignorance. It is difficult to suppose that the contriver of a'
successful device did not understand how it operated; that
he saw nothing in it and committed it to the world without seeing anything in it, but a composition of wood, rubber and iron in certain relations without understanding
or attempting to discover the law and principle of its or-

DIAMOND RUBBER CO. v. CONSOL. TIRE CO. 437
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ganization and efficiency. Grant's situation demanded
caution and knowledge. He was confronted by what has
been termed a "crowded" prior art; he might expect to
encounter litigation, and, even before litigation, he would
have to satisfy the Patent Office of the novelty and utility
of his device, and it is hard to believe that he did not know
the co~iperating law of the elements which he had combined and only unconsciously made use of it. We find
the contention difficult to handle. When a person produces a useful instrument, to say that he did not know
what he was about is at least confusing. To take from him
the advantage of it upon nice speculation as to whether
it was an ignorant guess or confident knowledge and adaptation, might do him great injustice. His success is his
title to consideration.
In our decision thus far we have assumed that the
Grant tire is an invention, but as that is disputed we must
examine its right to such distinction. The Rubber Company denies invention to it, and, considering that its pretension to such quality depends upon the possession of
tipping power (including in this reseating power), contests
the existence of such power; and, even granting its existence, it is yet contended that anticipation may be demonstrated. In other words, it is insisted that if tipping power
exist in the Grant patent it existed in prior patents, and
that "the old art was crowded with numerous prototypes
and predecessors of this Grant tire, with every thought
and suggestion of novelty and utility that can be found in
drawings and specifications of the Grant patent, or in the
-idealized contentions as to the patent by the visions and
dreams of the experts and counsel for the patent."
Two patents are selected to sustain the contention, out
of what are said to be a large number of United States
and foreign patents, with the comment that "if they do
not show anticipation none of the others will show it, and
if they do anticipate the Grant patent, it is entirely im-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

material whether the others do or not." They are both
English patents issued to Frank Stanley Willoughby. We
copy from the Rubber Company's brief the figures of the
patent 5924.

F IG.?.

F I G.8.

F G.

a,.

The following is the explanation given by counsel of the
figures:
"The drawings of the Willoughby patent of March 26,
1892, No. 5,924, as to the flanged channel, show the flanges
in three different positions as to the solid rubber tire.
Fig. 8 shows the flange at right angles of the rim; Fig. 8'

DIAMOND RUBBER CO. v. CONSOL. TIRE CO.
220 U. S.

439

Opinion of the Court.

shows the flanges somewhat inwardly inclined with the
two retaining wires, and Fig. 7' shows the flanges vertical
with two retaining wires, the retaining wires in Fig. 88
being below the outer periphery of the flanges, and the
two retaining wires of Fig. 78 being centrally located, as
to their openings, with the periphery of the flanges. In
Fig. 6, however, which is a pneumatic-tire (a tire when
highly inflated is as solid as a rubber tire) the flanges are
outwardly flaring and the two retaining wires are substantially below the periphery of the flanges."
There are resemblances and differences in the figures
to those of the Grant patent and we have let the Rubber
Company set forth the resemblances. The differences
are substantial. To represent them we cannot do better
than to quote the description given of them by Judge
Thomas, 91 Fed. Rep. 988, as follows:
"The Willoughby patent, No. 5,924, Fig. 88, shows in
combination wire connections, also described in the specification, very similar, save in location, to those used by
Grant, and the figure shows also a very slight angle located slightly within the flanges. The rim, however, is
of the clinger variety; that is, the flanges incline inwardly,
and bind the rubber on each side. Such a tire thwarts
the lateral- play otherwise permitted to the rubber by the
wires, and, although almost imperceptible angles appear,
made by the sides of the rubber, they are not sufficient
to give the immunity resulting from a well-defined angle
whose vertex is within the flaring rim. Figures 5' and 5'
show rims shaped like the segment of a circle, in which are
seated spherical rubbers held in place by a single wire.
The rim is described in the specifications as U or V-shaped.
A V-shaped rim must have flaring flanges, but the rim is
quite unlike that employed by Grant, and in the entire
absence of the angle the functions attributed to the Grant
tire seem to be absent. Indeed, the freedom of action
permitted by the wire in the rim used by Grant seems to

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

be denied the tire, for the reason that the rubber is confined by the V-shaped channel.
"The Willoughby patent, No. 18,030, shows wire connection, flaring flanges and angle, (see Figs. 26, 30, 31,)
and in mere coincidence of parts seems to be the nearest
approach to the Grant tire. But look at these figures,
and all possible conception of coincidence of function is
dissipated at once. There is the flaring rim, in which is
seated a rubber upon which is placed a steel outer tire,
through which pass the openings and wires. The angle
is far without the upper edges of the rim, and.it -appears
that neither function ascribed to the Grant tire is obtained."
WilIoughby patent No. 18,030, has no relevancy whateyer. It is true it has flanges, upon the rim,. flaring and
at right angles, and it is illustrated by figures showing
what may be called retaining wires, to quote from the
brief of counsel, "above the periphery of the flanges, another substantially on a line with the periphery of the
flanges, and three of the figures showing the retaining
wires substantially below the periphery of the respective
flanges." It is manifest that the relation of the retaining
wires to the periphery of the flanges is absolutely unimportant in the tire. Willoughby, describing his invention,
says: "The object of my present invention is as in my
previous one to provide a metallic outer tyre or armour
to rubber which is of itself flexible." The retaining wires
hold the metallic exterior to the rubber bed.
The utility of the Grant patent, therefore, was not attained in the Willoughby patent. The Rubber Company's
conduct is confirmation of this. It uses the Grant tire,
as we shall presently see, not the Willoughby tires. Let
it be granted that they afforded suggestions to Grant, and
that he has gone but one step beyond them. It is conceded, as we have said, that his invention is a narrow
one-a step beyond the prior art-built upon it, it may

DIAMOND RUBBER CO v. CONSOL. TIRE CO. 441
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

be, and only an improvement upon it. Its legal evasion
may be the easier, (Railway Co. v. Sayles, supra), and
hence we see the strength of the concession to its advance
beyond the prior art and of its novelty and utility by the
Rubber Company's imitation of it. The prior art was
open to the Rubber Company. That "art was crowded,"
it says, "with numerous prototypes and predecessors"
of the Grant tire, and they, it is insisted, possessed all of
the qualities which the dreams of experts attributed to the
Grant tire. And yet the Rubber Company uses the Grant
tire. It gives the tribute of its praise to the prior art;
it gives the Grant tire the tribute of its imitation as others
have done. And yet the narrowness of the claims seemed
to make legal evasion easy. Why, then, was there not
evasion by a variation of the details of the patented arrangement? Business interests urged to it as much as to
infringement. We can find no answer except that given
by the Tire Company: "The patented organization must
be one that is essential. Its use in the precise form described and shown in the patent must be inevitably necessary."
That the tire is an invention is fortified
by all of the
presumptions, the presumption of the patent by that
arising from the utility of the tire. And we have said
that the utility of a device may be attested by the litigation over it, as litigation "shows and measures the existence of the public demand for its use." Eames v. Andrews, supra. We have shown the litigation to which the
Grant tire has been subjected.
We have taken for granted in our discussion that, the
Grant tire immediately established and has ever since
maintained its supremacy over all other rubber tires and
has been commercially successful while they have been.
failures. The assumption is justified by the concession
of counsel. They do not deny the fact, but attribute it to
"three subsequent discoveries and conditions" since the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

Grant patent, these being-(1) "that the tire can be held
in place and fixed upon its base by straining the wires to a
clamping pqint; (2) the production, by mechanical means,
cheaply and expeditiously as a commercial *product, of
the channel rim in straight lengths to be applied to the
wheel; and (3) the improvement of the rubber itself; the
demand of the public for a solid rubber tire, and the wealth
of the complainant, advertising in the market, and pushing and exploiting the tire."
The first ground is a somewhat distant assertion that
the tire does not involve invention, but as to that we have
sufficiently expressed opinion. The second ground is an
inversion of cause and effect, and there is an obvious answer to the third ground. Without suitable rubber, there
could have been no rubber tires, and the desire for them
necessarily induced their manufacture, and Grant exercised invention to produce an efficient one. We can understand that some advertising was necessary to bring it into
notice, ahd give it a certain use, but the extensive use
which it attained, and more certainly the exclusive use
which it attained, could only have been the result .of its
essential excellence, indeed, its pronounced superiority
over all other forms. Here, again, in our discussion a
comparison is suggested between it and other tires, and
the inquiry occurs why capital has selected it to invest
in and advertise and not one of the tires of the prior art
if it be not better than they? But the effect of advertiing is mere speculation; to the utility and use of an article
the law assigns a definite presumption of its character,
as we have seen, and Which we are impelled by the facts
of this record to follow.
To what quality the utility of the tire may be due will
bear further consideration, if for no other reason than the
earnest contentions of counsel.. Aside from those conten-*
tio'ris and the ability by which they are supported, we
might point to what it does as a demonstration of its dif-

DIAMOND RUBBER CO. v. CONSOL. TIRE CO. 443
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ference from all that preceded it, that there is something
in it, attribute or force, which did not exist before-something which is the law of its organization and function,
and raises it above a mere aggregation of elements to a
patentable combination. And we may say in passing the
elements of a combination may be all old. In making a
combination the inventor has the whole field of mechanics
to draw from. Leeds & Catlin v. Victor Talking Machine
Co., 213 U. S. at page 318.
The Tire Company gives a definition of the "something"
as tipping and reseating power. The Rubber Company
earnestly denies the existence of the power, and, as we
have seen, the Courts of Appeals for the Sixth and Second
Circuits divided in opinion on its existence. We think
such power is possessed by the tire. This is shown by the
evidence, and Was shown at the oral argument. And it
is the result of something more than each element acting
separately. It is not the result alone of the iron channel
with diverging sides, nor alone of the retaining bands or
the rubber. They each have uses and perform them to an
end different from the effect, of either, and they must have
been designed to such end, contrived to exactly produce
it. There can be no other deduction from their careful
relation. The adaptation of the rubber to the flaring
channel, the shape of that permitting lateral movement
and compression, the retaining band, holding and yielding, placed in such precise adjustment and correlation
with the other parts, producing a tire that "when compressed and bent sidewise shall not escape from the channel
and shall not be cut on the flange of the channel," and yet
shall "be mobile in the channel." We agree with the
Court of Appeals that "this was not the result of chance
or the haphazard selection of parts; his (Grant's) success
could only have been achieved by a careful study of the
scientific and mechanical problems necessary to overcome the defects which rendered the then existing tires

OCTOBER TERM, 19.10.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

ineffective and useless." This conclusion is not shaken
by the testimony and argument urged against it.
The contention of non-infringement is very hesitatingly
advanced, suggested rather than urged. It is
conceded
that infringement existed in the prior litigations, but it
is said that if under the closer analysis of the Grant patent
"as here presented, and as considered as contended for,
if to be confined to exact angles and relations of angles
and precise configuration of parts "-the Rubber Company's device does not infringe. And this is attempted
to be supported by the testimony of a witness who found,
he said, in the Rubber Company's tire "the three fundamental mechanical elements" of the Grant patent in suit
which, he interjected, were borrowed by Grant, "both
individually and in combination, from the prior art long
antedating his alleged invention," and then proceeded
to declare a difference between the "angles and relations
of angles and precise configuration of parts," to use counsel's language, of the two tires and briefly summarizing
his conclusion, said that he did not "find the alleged invention, combinations and devices of either of the claims
of the Grant patent in suit embodied in or contained in
either of the exhibits introdued in evidence professing
to represent the defendant's tire." We are unable to
concur in the conclusion. The exhibits demonstrate the
contrary. And we are fortified in this by the conduct of
the Rubber Company in the Circuit Court. The defense
of non-infringement was not there seriously urged. After
considering to what extent the case, as presented, differed
from the prior litigation, Judge Holt said: "Of course, if
your defense was that this defendant does not infringe,
that would be an entirely different question, but the only
question argued here is as to the validity of the patent."
In the opinion of the Court of. Appeals non-infringement
received no attention, presumably because that defense
was not pressed upon it;

DIAMOND RUBBER CO. v. CONSOL. TIRE CO. 445
220 U.S.

Opinion of-the Court.

The final contention of the Rubber Company is that the
Grant patent having been declared invalid by the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit and by the Circuit
Court for the District of Indiana in the Seventh Circuit,
the Rubber Company should not have been enjoined from
the handling or sale of tires manufactured in the Sixth
and Seventh Circuits, and cites Kessler v. Eldred, 206 U. S.
285.
The Court of Appeals practically reserved the question.
It modified the decree of the Circuit Court so far as it
prevented the handling, using or selling tires and rims
authorized by any judicial decree, recognizing, as it said,
the applicability of Kessler v. Eldred. But it further said:
"Whether it should be given a broader interpretation.
is a question upon which we express no opinion, deeming
it more prudent to wait until the facts are fully developed.
"There is no occasion for attempting at this time to
anticipate the future and to provide for a contingency
which may not arise. . . . To provide in a decree
that the defendant is not enjoined from making, using and
selling devices which do not infringe or which have been
licensed, seems unnecessary. The doctrine of Eldred and
Kessler, if carried to the extent contended for by the defendant, will introduce radical and far-reaching limitations
upon the rights of patentees. These questions may not
arise in the case at bar, but if they should, the court should
have the facts, and all the facts, before attempting to decide them."
We concur in these remarks.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

part in the decision.

and MR.

JUSTICE LURTON

took no

