OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Counsel for Parties

220 U. S.

cuted is, we think, so obvious as not to afford any possible
ground for retaining-jurisdiction of the cause. That is to
say, we are of opinion that the contention upon which
the asserted right to prosecute the error directly to this
court was based is so devoid of all foundation as to render
it necessary to decline to assume a jurisdiction which we
have not; and, therefore , the writ of error is dismissed.
Writ of error dismissed.

WISE, INDIVIDUALLY AND AS UNITED STATES
ATTORNEY, v. HENKEL, UNITED STATES
MARSHAL IN NEW YORK.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 964. Argued April 24, 25, 1911.-Decided May 15, 1911.
Where the court below had authority to make an order directing the
performance of an act, irrespective of a constitutional question
raised, the denial of a writ of habeas corpus on behalf of one comnmitted for contempt for refusing to obey such urder does not necessarily involve the construction or application of the Constitution
and a direct appeal from the judgment denying the writ .does not lie
to this court under ยง 5 of the Judiciary Act of 1891.
The writ of habeas corpus cannot be made to perform the functions of
a writ of error.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
on appeal from a judgment of the Circuit Court of the
United StAtes in a habeas ccrpus proceeding, are stated in

the opinion.
The Solicitor General for appellant.

Mr. A. Leo Everett for appellee.

WISE v. HENKEL.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This case is disposed of by the opinion delivered in Wise
v. Mills, just decided, ante, p. 549. It thus arose:
The district attorney on his conniittal for contempt in
refusing to obey the order directing him to return certain
books and papers, on being taken into custody sued out
a writ of habeas corpus, and from the judgment discharging
the writ prosecuted this appeal The petition in habeas
corpus after averring the facts as we have stated them in
the opinion in Wise v. Mills, alleged that the bommitment
for contempt was based "solely and exclusively on an
order of this court made and filed on the -15th day of
March," and that the court "was without jurisdiction
to compel your petitioner as United States Attorney for
this district or in any other capacity to surrender to the
persons now under indictment and awaiting trial .
books and papers which came into his lawful and official custody as aforesaid and are necessary to a prosecution still pending against said defendants."
It was
then averred that "your petitioner verily believes that
for the reasons above stated the order adjudging him guilty
of contempt and his commitment pursuant to said order
in the custody of the marshal were without legal right,
authority or jurisdiction of any kind and are utterly void
and ineffective, and that his detention and imprisonment
thereunder are in violation of the Constitution of the
United States and in violation of his rights, privileges and
immunities thereunder."
The right to come directly to this court is controlled by
ยง5 of the Judiciary Act of 1891, which authorizes an appeal
in certain cases. It is plain that the only portion of that
subdivision which can possibly have application here is
that which relates to cases "involving the construction or
application of the Constitution of the United States."

,558

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

But, as we have seen in Wise v. Mills, no question as to the
construction or application of the Constitution of the
United States, in the correct sense of those words, was
involved in the order committing for contempt. While
it is true that the court, in passing upon the application for
the return of the books and papers, expressed the opinion
that as the act of seizing them violated the constitutional
rights of the petitioners they were entitled to an order for
return, this did not cause it.to come. to pass that the order
committing for contempt involved the application or construction of the Constitution. In every aspect this is the
case, since the authority of the court to consider and decide
the application for the return of the books and papers
existed wholly irrespective of whether there was a constitutional right to exact the return of the books and papers.
That is to say, it was within the power of the court to take
jurisdiction of the subject of the return and pass upon it
as the result of its inherent authority to consider and decide questions arising before it concerning an alleged unreasonable exertion of authority in connection with the execution of the process of the court. The case, therefore, is but
an attempt to cause a writ of habeas corpus to serve the
functions of a writ of error.
For the reasons stated in case of Wise v. Mills, we think
the contention that a constitutional question was involved
in this case upon the existence of which the right to appeal to this court depended, is so wholly devoid of merit
as to require here, as it did in the other case, a dismissal
for want of jurisdiction. The appeal is, therefore,
Dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

