UNITED STATES v. LEHIGH VALLEY R. R. CO. 257
220 U. S.

Syllabus.

UNITED STATES v. LEHIGH VALLEY RAILROAD
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 536. Argued January 5,1911.-Decided April 3, 1911..
The rule that the allowance of amendments to pleadings is discretionary
with the trial court and not to be reviewed on appeal except in case
of gross abuse does not apply where such discretion is controlled by
this court and the refusal to all6w an amendment defeats the evident purpose of this court in remanding the case.
Where the refusal of the Circuit Court to allow an amendment is in
conflict with the opinion and mandate of this court there is an abuse
of discretion which this court can and will correct on appeal, even if
such abuse be the result of misconception of the opinion and of the
scope of the mandate.
While the decision of this court in this and other commodities clause
cases, 213 U. S. 366, expressly held that under the commodities
clause stock ownership by a railroad company in a bona fide corporation, irrespective of the extent of such ownership, does not preclude
the railroad company from transporting the commodities manufactured, produced or owned by such corporation, it is still open to
the Government to question the right of the railroad company to
transport commodities of a corporation in which the company owns
stock and uses its power as a stockholder to obliterate all distinctions between the two corporations; and an amendment to the
original 'bill in one of the commodities cases alleging such facts
as show the absolute control by the defendant railroad company,
through stock ownership, over the corporation whose conmodities
arc being transported, is germane to the original bill and should have
been allowed by the trial court.
By the operation and effect of the commodities clause a duty has been
cast upon an interstate carrier not to abuse its power as a stockholder of a corporation whose commodities it transports in interstate commerce by so commingling the affairs of that corporation
with. its own as to cause the two corporations to become one and
inseparable.

VOL. ccxx-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Appellant.

220 U. S.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Wade H. Ellis, Assistant to the Attorney General,
with whom The Attorney Generaland Mr. Edwin P. Gros-

venor, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, were on
the brief, for appellant:
The Government's right to proceed in this case is not
foreclosed by the previous decision of this court in 213

U. S. 366. The facts now sought to be shown by the
amendment of the Government in the court below are not
the same as those, which were before this court on the
former appeal.
The stipulation of counsel in the original case was that
the submission of the case on bill and answer should in no
wise prejudice the parties in any suit or proceeding thereafter instituted.
In the recent case of United States v. Reading Co., 183
Fed. Rep. 427, 461, 462, it has been found that the Lehigh
Valley Coal Company is a mere department of the Lehigh

Valley Railroad Company, and not an independent corporation.
The construction by this court of the commodities
clause shows that it applies when the commodity' has been
manufactured, mined or produced by a carrier or under
its authority and at the time of transportation the carrier
has not in good faith dissociated itself from such commodity; when a carrier owns the commodity transported
in whole .or in part;, and when a carrier at the time of
transportation has an interest in the commodity, direct

or indirect, but not including an interest represented only
by the ownership of stock in a "separate," "distinct"
and "bona fide" corporation.

It follows that in the present case the railroad company,
as shown by the proposed amendment of the bill, is violating the commodities clause in two of the three ways indicated above.

UNITED STATES v. LEHIGH VALLEY R. R. CO. 259
220 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

Without regarc1 to stock ownership, the coal transported by the Lehigh Valley. Railroad Company was
mined and produced "under its authority," and the railroad company has not dissociated itself from such commodity Northern Securities Co. v. United States, 193
U. S. 197; Harrimanv. Northern Securities Co.; 197 U. S.
244; N. Y., N. H. & H. R. R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce
Commission, 200 U. S. 361, 390.- In other words, if the
Lehigh Valley Railroad Company did not own a single
share of the stock of the coal company in the present case
it could not lawfully transport the coal, and certainly it
cannot get that authority simply because it owns all the
stock of the coal company.
The coal company is not a separate, distinct and bona
fide corporation. In re Watertown Paper Co., 169 Fed.
Rep. 252; In re Muncie Pulp Co., 139 Fed. Rep. 546;
Interstate Telegraph Co. V. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co.,
51 Fed. Rep. 49.
It can make no difference in this case 'that the coal
company was organized before the passage of the commodities clause and before the former decision of this
court construing that act, for it is the effect of a relation
between a railroad and a coal company, and not the
motive, which constitutes a violation of the statute.
The fiction of a separate corporate entity will be disregarded whenever it is insisted upon as a protection to an
illegal transaction. In re Rieger, Capnor and Aultmark,
157 Fed. Rep. 609; Miller & Lux v. East Side Canal &
IrrigationCo., 211 U. S. 293; Lehigh Mining & Mfg. Co.
v. Kelley, 160 U. S. 327; Gas Co. v. West, 50 Iowa, 16;
Booth v. Bunce, 33 N. Y. 139; Bennett v. Minott, 28
Oregon, 389; Morawetz on Corp., §§ 1, 227.
The court below erred in. not allowing the Government
to amend its bill of complaint; first, because it had no
discretion in the matter; 3 Ency. Law & Prac. 579 National Bank v. Carpenter, 101 U. S. 567, 568; and second,

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Appellant.

220 U. S.

because if it had such discretion this was abused. House
v. Mullen, 22 Wall. 42; Rio Grande Dam &c. Co. v. United
States, 215 U. S. 266; Texas & Pacific Railway v. Interstate Transp. Co., 155 U. S. 585; Swan Land & Cattle
Co. v. Frank, 148 U. S. 603; Kendig v. Dean, 97 U. S. 423;
Durant v. Essex Co., 7 Wall. 107.
There are important considerations of "lublic policy
which weigh against any construction of the commodities
clause which would offer inducements to the railroads to
organize subsidiary companies to deal in commodities in
competition with other shippers. There is no reason for
denying to railroads the right to invest their-funds in the
stock of other corporations, where such other corporations are separate and distinct from the carrier's business.
But where a railroad company organizes a subsidiary corporation not for the purpose of investing its funds but to
make its profits out of the transportation of the commodity produced, the temptation of the carrier is to increase the rates of transportation to all so that no one can
afford to deal in the article except the railroad which transports it. The consequences of confirming in the railroads
such unlimited power are well stated in the English case
of Attorney General v. Great Northern R. R. Co., 29 L. J.
Ch. (N. S.) 794, cited in the New Hazen Case, 200 U. S. 393.
The interpretation of the commodities clause contended
for by the Government in this case would make unnecessary an amendment by Congress forbidding railroads to
transport, in interstate commerce, the product or property
of corporations in which their only interest is the ownership
of stock, for it would make vital and effective the act as it
stands by so construing it as to forbid railroads to trans:port commodities of other corporations where such other
corporations are not in fact separate, independent enterprises but are mere departments of the railroads.. And
this last was the real evil which the commodities clause
was intended to remedy.

UNITED STATES v. LEHIGH VALLEY R. R. CO. 261
220 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

Mr. John G. Johnson, with whom Mr. J. F. Schaperkotter and Mr. Frank H. Platt were on the brief, for appellee:
The only question left in the case on its return to the
Circuit Court was whether the defendant was violating
the commodities clause by carrying the coal produced and
owned by the Lehigh Valley Coal Company, whose capital stock was entirely -owned by the defendant, and that
of other coal companies in which the defendant had stock
interests, entire or part, either majority or minority,
respectively.
The complainant's motion for leave to file an amended
bill of complaint'was rightly denied.
The generali replication had been filed and not withdrawn. Irrespective of Equity Rule 29, with which the
Government wholly failed to comply, no cause was shown
for leave to file an amended bill other than that which appeared on the face of the proposed amendment itself.
Nothing had occurred since the original bill was filed except that this court, had held that the Government's
theory of the law was erroneous. There was no averment
of after-discovered matter. The refusal of leav e to amend
the bill- was discretionary, and is not reviewable. Michigan Central Ry. Co. v. Pinkney, 149 U: S. 194, 201; Chapman v. Barney, 129 U. S. 677, 681; Bullitt Co. v. Washer,
130 U. S. 142, 145.
The complainant's motion for a decree dismissing, the
bill of complaint without prejudice was- rightly denied.
Pullman's Car Co. v. Transportation Co., 171 U. S. 138,
146; Stevens v. The Railroads,4 Fed. Rep. 97, 105; Chicago
& Alton R* R. .Co. v. Union Rolling Mill Co., 109 U. S.
702, 713; Connor v. Drake, 1 Ohio, 170.
A dismissal without prejudice would have seriously
prejudiced the rights of the defendant. It was clearly
within the discretion of the court to deny the motion for a
dismissal without prejudice, which would have opened the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Appellee.

220 U. S.

door for the bringing of a new suit in which the complainant would have all of the advantage growing out .of the
admissions set forth in the answer. American Bell Telephone Co. v. Western Union Tel. Co., 69 Fed. Rep. 666,
670.
It was clearly within the discretion of the court to refuse to deprive the defendant of this right by means of a
dismissal without prejudice. Hershberger v. Blewett, 55
Fed. Rep. 170, 171; Flaherty v. McCormick, 14 N. E. Rep.
846, 850; Georgia Pine Turpentine Co. v. Bilfinger, 129
Fed. Rep. 131; Ebner v. Zimmerly, 118 Fed. Rep. 818.
The decision of the Circuit Court was in conformity
with the opinion of this court.
The character of a coal company,-whether it be bona
fide, or not, within the meaning of this court-cannot depen d on the extent or proportion of the capital stock held
by the railroad company. A railroad company owning
three-quarters, or more than half, of the stock of a coal
company controls its management through election 'as
completely as it would by owning the entire capital stock.
The fact of entire or majority ownership, is, therefore, not
logically more relevant to the issue of bona fides than
minority ownership, unless this court intended to hold
that every majority holding constitutes mala fides. Obviously the decision of this court is that the question of
bona fides shall not depend on stock holding.
The relationship between the defendant and the coal
company has from its inception existed under the direct
authority of law, both of the State of Pennsylvania and
the Federal Government. As to the State of Pennsylvania, under whose laws the coal company was organized,
it is alleged and conceded that such organization and such
relationship, were allowed and encouraged by the legislative policy of the State of, Pennsylvania. As to the
Federal laws, there is the direct interpretation of the
Interstate Commerce Act in the Chesapeake and Ohio

UNITED STATES v. LEHIGH VALLEY R. R. CO. 263
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Case, 200 U. S. 361, 401, to the effect that the relationship
was legal. And see Haddock and Coxe Cases, 4 I. C. C.
Rep. 296, 535.
The relationship which the Government now seeks to
have declared so lacking in good faith as to render the
existence of the coal company a mere fiction, forms the
basis of the very rights from which arose the grave and
doubtful constitutional questions which this court found
it unnecessary to decide. Upon the strength of the relationship existing between the defendant and the coal company millions of dollars have, changed hands, 'pursuant. to
transactions whose good faith cannot be questioned.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This case is one of what were known as the commodities
cases previously decided and reported in United States v.
Delaware & Hudson Co., 213 U. S. 366. The controversy
now is but a sequel to that disposed of in the previous
cases. To understand the question now for consideration
it is essential to have in mind the contentions which arose
for decision upon the previous appeal and the disposition
which was made of them. We therefore refer to those
subjects.
The United States proceeded, both by suits in equity
and mandamus, against certain railroad companies, including the Lehigh Valley, to prohibit them from transporting coal in interstate commerce in violation of what
were deemed to be the prohibitions of the fifth paragraph
of the first section of the act to regulate commerce as
amended on June 29, 1906, usually referred to as the
commodities clause of the Hepburn'Act. The clause is as
follows:
"From and after May first, nineteen hundred and eight,
it shall be unlawful for any railroad company to transport

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

from any State, Territory, or the District of Columbia, to
any other State, Territory, or the District of Columbia, or
to any foreign country, any article or commodity, other
than timber and the manufactured products thereof,
manufactured, mined or produced by it, or under its authority, or which it may own in whole, or in part, or in
which it may have any interest, direct or indirect, except
such articles or commodities as may be necessary and intended for its use in the conduct of its business as a common carrier." 34 Stat. 584, c. 3591.
In effect, the contention of the Government was that
the clause in question prohibited railroad companies from
moving in the channels of interstate commerce articles or
,commodities other than the articles excepted by the provision*which had been manufactured, mined or produced
by the companies or under their authority or which were
at the time of the transportation owned by them or which
had been previously owned by them in whole or in part
or in which the companies then or previously had any interest, direct or indirect. The Government, moreover,
insisted that these general propositions embraced the
'Movement by the companies in interstate commerce of a
commodity which had been manufactured, mined or produced by a corporation in which the transporting railroad
company was a stockholder, irrespective of the extent of
such stock ownership. The railroad companies in effect
defended the suits upon the ground that the statute as
construed by the Government was repugnant to the Constitution. Each of-the cases was submitted upon bill and
answer and petition and return to the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania,
held by three circuit judges under the -Expediting Act of
February 11, 1903. 32 Stat. 823, c. 544. The submission
in each case was made as a result of a stipulation between
counsei "that the submission on bill and answer and any
averment or admission in the pleadings of either party

UNITED STATES v. LEHIGH VALLEY R. R. CO. 265
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

shall in no Wise prejudice the said parties in any other suit
or proceeding heretofore or hereafter instituted, and shall
be operative and take effect only with respect to the
present suit and for the purpose thereof."
Treating the commodities clause in question as having
the significance attributed to it by the United States the
court held it to be repugnant to the Constitution. Judgments and decrees were accordingly entered, denying the
applications for mandamus and dismissing the bills of
complaint. The reasons which led to this action were
expounded in one opinion, made applicable to all the
cases, the court briefly but comprehensively stating the
case which were relied upon by.the Governfacts
ment inaseach
bringing the defendant corporation within
the
clause as the Government construed it. The cases were
then brought here.
As was done in the lower court, the cases here were all
disposed of by one opinion, the facts in each case as summarized-by the court below being stated. In deciding the
cases it became necessary first to ascertain the meaning of
the commodities clause. In performing this duty the conclusion was reached that the clause did not have the farreaching significance attributed to it by the Government
and which had been substantially adopted by the court
below, but on the contrary had a much narrower meaning. Attention was directed to the fact that the statute
disjunctively applied four generic prohibitions, that is, it
forbade a railway company from transporting in interstate commerce articles or commodities, 1, which it had
manufactured, mined or produced; 2, which have been so
mined, manufactured or produced under its authority;
3, which it owns in whole, or in part; and, 4, in which it
has an interest, direct or indirect. All these prohibitions,
however, were held to have but a common purpose, "that
is, the dissociation of railroad companies prior to transportation friom articles or commodities, whether the'as-

OCTOBER TERM,, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

sociation resulted. from manufacture, mining, production
or ownership, or interest, direct or indirect."
In coming to determine whether the Government was
'correct in its contention that these prohibitions operated
to prevent a railroad company from transporting a product
because it was owned by or had been mined, manufactured or produced by a corporation in which the railroad company.was the owner of stock, irrespective of the
amount of such stock ownership, it was expressly decided
that the prohibitions of the statute were addressed only
to a legal or equitable interest in the commodities to
/which
the prohibitions referred, that they therefore did
not prohibit a railroad company from transporting commodities mined, manufactured, produced or owned by a
distinct corporation, merely because the railroad company was the owner of some or all of the stock in such
corporation.
Summing up its review as to the true construction of
the commodities clause, the court held (p. .415) that it
prohibited "a railroad company engaged in interstate
commerce from transporting in such commerce articles or
commodities under the following circumstances and conditions: (a) When the article or commodity has' been
manufactured, mined or produced by a carrier or under
its authority, and at the-time of transportation the carrier'
has not in good faith before the act of transportation dissociated itself from such article or commodity; (b) When
the carrier owns the article or commodity to be transported in whole or in part; .(c) When the carrier at the
time of transportation has an interest, direct or indirect,
in a legal or equitable sense, in the article or commodity,
not including, therefore, articles or commodities manufactured, mined or produced or owned, etc., by a bona
fide corporation in which the railroad company is a stockholder."
Thus construed, the clause was held to be within the

UNITED STATES v. LEHIGH VALLEY R. R. CO. 267
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

power of Congress to enact. As this conclusion rendered
it necessary to reverse the action of the court below which
had been exclusively predicated upon the unconstitutionality of the statute, the question arose as to what disposition should be made of the cases. That is to say, the
constitutionality of the statute being settled and its true
meaning being expounded, the question was whether the
cases should be finally disposed of or should be left in
such a position as to give the Government the right to
proceed to apply and enforce the prohibitions of the statute
against the various corporations which were defendants if
it deemed a good case existed for so doing. Disposing of
this subject in the light of the consent upon which the
cases had been tried in the court below, and of the error
which had obtained as to the true meaning of the statute
and of the consequent concentration of the attention of
the court and of the parties to the question of the constitutionality of the statute, instead of its application to
the facts, when correctly construed, it was determined
that the decree should not conclude the right of the
United States in the respective causes to further proceed
to enforce the statute as construed, and hence that that
subject should be left open for future action. Referring
to this matter, it was said (p. 418):
"As the court below held the statute wholly void for
repugnancy to the Constitution, it follows from the views
which we have expressed that the judgments and decrees
entered below must be reversed. As, however, it was conceded in the discussion at bar that in view of the public
and private interests which were concerned, the United
States did not seek to enforce the penalties of the statute,
but commenced these proceedings, with the object and
purpose of settling the differences between it and the defendants concerning the meaning of the commodities
clause and, the power of Congress to enact it as correctly
interpreted, and upon this view the proceedings were

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

heard below by submission upon the pleadings, we are of
opinion that the ends of justice will be subserved, not by
reversing and remnanding with particular directions as to
each of the defendants, but by reversing and remanding
with directions for such further proceedings as may be
necessary to apply and enforce the statute as we have
interpreted it."
Accordingly, the man(late of this court pl'ovi(ded tlat
to the
eanled
the cause "be, and the same is hereby, rem
said Circuit Court for further proceedings in confonnitly
with the opinion of this court."
Upon the filing of the mandate the court below vacated
its decree dismissing the bill in this (the equity) cause,
and reinstated the case upon the docket. The United
States then presented an amended bill and asked leave to
file it. The amendment contained copious averments in
regard to the actual relations existing between the railroad company and one of the coal companies mentioned
in the original bill, viz., the Lehigh Valley Coal Company.
In substance it was averred that as to this particular coal
company the railroad company was not only the owner of
all the stock issued by the coal company, but that the
railroad company so used the power thus resulting from
its stock ownership as to deprive the coal company of all
real, independent existence and to make it virtually but
an agency or dependency or department of the railroad
company. In other words, in great detail facts were
averred which tended to establish that there was no distinction in practice between the coal company and the
railroad company, the latter using the Coal company as a
mere device to enable the railroad company to violate the
provisions of the commodities clause. It was expressly
charged that in consequence of these facts:
"The coal company is not a bona fide mining company,
but is merely an adjunct or instrumentality of the defendant. The defendant is in legal effect the owner of

UNITED STATES v. LEHIGH VALLEY R. R. CO. 26U
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and has a pecuniary interest in the coal niined by the
coal company, and which is transported by the dcfendant."
Not only was it thus charged that the railroad coinpany.
used its stock ownership to so commingle the opcrating of
the affairs of the mining coifpany with its own as to reider it impossible to distinguish a a matter of fact bctween them, but it was moreover expressly in substance
charged that exerting its influence as the owner of all the
stock of thc coal company the railroad company caused the
coal company to buy up all the coal produced by other
mining companies in the area tributary to the railroad
and fix the price at which such coal was bought so as to
control the same and the transportation thereof and establish the price at which fhe coal thus ostensibly acquired by the coal company by purchase should, be sold
when it reached the seaboard.
It was charged that by these abuses the production,
shipment and sale of all the coal within the territory
6erved by the railroad company was brought within the
dominion of tlvit company practically to the same extent
as if it was the absolute owner of the same. Finally it was
alleged as follows:
"That by virtue of the facts hereinbefore set out and
otherwise, and more particularly by virtue of the contr6l,
direction, domination, and supervision exercised by the
persons who are the officers of the defendant railroad and
by the defendant over all the operations of the said coal
company, embracing the mining and production of said
coal, the shipment and transportation of the same over
the defendant railroad, and the sale thereof at the seaboard, it follows:
"First. That the coal company, not being in substance
and in good 'faith a bona fide corporation, separate from
the defendan ,but a mere adjunct or instrumentality of
the defendant, the defendant, at the time of transporta-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

tion, has an interest, direct or indirect, in a legal or
equitable sense, in said coal.
"Second. That said coal of said coal company is mined
and produced under the authority of defendant, and the
defendant at the time of transportation and before the
act of transportation has not in good faith dissociated
itself from all exercise of authority over said coal but
continues to exercise authority over said coal at the time
of transportation and over the subsequent sale thereof. "
On the objection of the railway company the court
denied the request of the United States for leave to file
the amended bill. The United States then moved for a
decree dismissing its original bill without prejudice, and
after argument that motion also was denied. Thereupon
counsel for the railroad company moved to dismiss the
bill absolutely, and upon the statement of counsel for the
United States that it "would not proceed any further. in
view of the fact that the proposed amendment had been
disallowed," the court reached the conclusion "that the
bill should be dismissed absolutely upon the allegations
of the bill and Answer." A decree to that effect was entered, and the Government prosecutes th is appeal, relying for reversal upon the error which it is insisted was
committed in refusing to allow the proposed amended bill
to be filed and in dismissing the suit.
At the threshold it is insisted .bythe railroad company
that the action of the court below in refusing to permit
the proposed amendment, however germane that amendment may have been to the cause of action stated in the
original bill and even although the subject-matter of the
amendment was not -foreclosed by our previous decision,
is not susceptible of being reviewed, because the allowance
of amendments to pleadings is discretionary with a trial
court, and the action of the court below in refusing to
permit the amendment, even though erroneous, may not
be reversed for error unless a gross abuse of discretion was

UNITED STATES v. LEHIGH VALLEY R. R. CO. 271
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

committed. The principle is elementary, but is inapplicable to this case for a twofold reason: First, because the
analysis which we have hitherto made of the opinion of
this court on the prior hearing makes it certain that the
undoubted object was not to foreclose the right of the
Government to enforce in the pending causes the commodities clause as correctly construed, and therefore in
this regard the discretion of the court below was controlled
by the action of this court. Second, because, in view of
the express reservations in the opinion and the explicit
language of the mandate of this court, the conclusion
cannot be escaped that an absolute abuse of discretion
resulted from refusing to permit the amendment, even
although such abuse was obviously occasioned by a misconception of the character of the action of this court and
the scope of the mandate.
It remains only to consider, first, whether the proposed
amendment was germane to the original cause of action,
and- if it was, whether it was foreclosed by our previous
decision.
As to the first question. When it is borne in mind that
the suit, was brought by the 'Government to enforce as
against the defendant the commands of the commodities
clause, the fact that the proposed amendment was germane to such cause of action is too apparent to need anything but statement. Indeed, in the argument at bar on
behalf of the railroad company this is in effect conceded
since it is insisted that the amendment should not have
been allowed, because in substance its averments virtually
.constituted part of the original cause of action. And we
think it is equally clear that the grounds of the amendment were not foreclosed by our former decision. While
that decision expressly held that stock ownership by -a
railroad company in a bona fide corporation, irrespective
of the extent of such ownership, did not preclude a railroad company from transporting the commodities manu-i

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

factured, mined, produced or owned by such corporation,
nothing in that conclusion foreclosed the right of the
Government to question the power of a railroad company
to transport in interstate commerce a commodity manufactured, mined, owned or produced by a corporation in
which the railroad held stock and where the power of the
railroad company as a stockholder was used to obliterate
all distinctions between the two corporations. That is to
say, where the power was exerted in such a manner as to
so commingle the affairs of both as by necessary effect to
make such affairs practically indistinguishable and therefore to cause both corporations to be one for all purposes.
To what extent the amendment charged this to be the case
will become manifest by again'particularly considering its
averments concerning the use by the railroad company of
the coal company as a purchaser of coal, as also the direct
charge made in the proposed amendment that by such acts
the railroad company was enabled to control all or a
greater portion of the coal produced in the region tributary
to its road, and thus to dominate the situation and fix the
price, not only at which all the coal could be bought, but
at which it could be sold at the seaboard for consumption.
That the facts thus averred and the other allegations
contained in the proposed amended bill tended to show
an actual control by the railroad company over the property of the coal company and an actual interest in such

property beyond the mere interest which the railroad
company would have had as a holder of stock in the coal
company is, we think, clear. The alleged facts, therefore,
'brought the railroad company, so far as its right to carry
the product of the coal company is concerned, within the
general prohibitions of the commodities clause, unless for
some reason the right of the railroad company to carry
such product was not within the operation of that clause.
The argument is that the railroad company was so excepted, because any control which it exerted or interest

UNITED STATES v. LEHIGH VALLEY R. R. CO. ,273
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

which it had in the product of the coal company resulted
from its ownership of stock in that company, and would
not have existed without such ownership. The error,
however, lies in disregarding the fact that the allegations
of the amended bill asserted the existence of a control by
the railroad company over the coal corporation and its
product, rendered possible, it is true, by the ownership of
stock, but which was not the necessary result of a bona
fide exercise of such ownership and which could only have
arisen through the use by the railroad of its stock ownership for the purpose of giving it, the railroad company, as a
corporation forits own corporate purposes, complete power
over the affairs of- the coal company, just as if the coal
company were a mere department of the railroad. Indeed, such a situation could not have existed had the fact
that the two corporations were separate and distinct legal
entities been regarded in the administration of the affairs
of the coal company. Granting this to be the case, however, it is in effect urged, as the railroad company held all
the stock in the coal company, and therefore any gain
made or loss suffered by that company would be sustained
by the railroad company, no harm resulted from commingling the affairs of the two corporations and disregarding the fact that they were separate juridical beings,
because ultimately considered they were but one and the
same. This, however, in substance but amounts to asserting that the direct prohibitions of the commodities
clause ought to have been applied to a case of stock ownership, particularly to a case where the ownership embraced
all the stock of a producing company, and therefore that
a mistake was committed by Congress in not including
such stock ownership within the prohibitions of the commodities clause. We fail, however, to appreciate the
relevancy of the. contention. Our duty is to enforce the
statute, and not to exclude from its prohibitions things
which are properly embraced within them. Coming to
VOL. ccxx-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
OpinioA of the Court.

220 U. S.

discharge 'this duty it follows, in view of the express prohibitions .of the commodities clause, it must be held that
while the right of a railroad company as a stockholder to
use its stock ownership for the purpose of a bona fide
separate administration of the affairs of a corporation in
which it has a stock interest may not be denied, the use of
such stock ownership in substance for the purpose of
destroying the entity of a producing, etc., corporation and
'of commingling its affairs in administration with the af'fairs of the railroad company, so as to make the two corporations virtually one, brings the railroad company so
voluntarily acting as to such producing, etc., corporation
within the prohibitions of the commodities clause. In
other words, that by operation and effect of the commodities clause there is a duty cast upon a railroad company proposing to carry in interstate commerce the
product of a producing, etc., corporation in which it has a
stock interest not to abuse such power so as virtually to

do by indirection that which the commodities clause prohibits, a duty which plainly would be violated by the unnecessary 'commingling of the affairs of the producing
company with its own, so as to cause them to be one and
inseparable.
Deciding, as we do, that error was committed in denying leave to file the proposed amended bill, the decree below is reversed and the cause remanded with directions
for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.

