OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

WESTERN

UNION

TELEGRAPH
CROVO.

220 U. S.

COMPANY

v.

ERROR TO THE LAW AND EQUITY COURT OF THE CITY OF
RICHMOND, STATE OF VIRGINIA, AND THE SUPREME COURT
OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF VIRGINIA.

Nos. 81, 87.

Argued March 6, 7, 1911.-Decided April 3, 1911.

Where the highest court of the State has refused a writ of error because it thought the judgment of the court below was right, the
writ of error from this court lies to the highest state court to which
the case could be carried.
Telegraph companies whose lines extend from one State to another
are engaged in interstate commerce, and messages passing from one
State to another constitute such.commerce, and companies and
messages both fall under the regulating power of Congress.
While a state statute which amounts to a regulation of interstate
commerce is void, one which simply imposes a )enalty on a telegraph company for failure to perform a clear common-law duty,
such as transmitting messages without unreasonable delay, is, in the
absence of legislation by Congress on that subject, a valid exercise
of the power of Oie State, if it relates to delay within the State even
though the message be to a point without the State. Such a statute
is neither a regulation of, nor hindrance to, interstate commerce, but
is in aid thereof; and so held as to the- statute of Virginia to that
effect.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality, under the
commerce clause, of a statute of Virginia requiring prompt
transmission of messages by telegraph companies, are
stated in the opinion.
Mr. Francis Raymond Stark, with whom Mr. George H.
Fearons, Mr. Rush Taggart and Mr. Henry D. Estabrook
were on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The State cannot impose a penalty for failure to transmit a message "as promptly as practicable" over a direct

WEST. UN. TEL. CO. v. CROVO.
220 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

wire from a point within to a point without the State.
Western Union Tel. Co. v. Pendleton, 122 U. S. 347.
If one State may lawfully insist that messages shall be
transmitted in order of priority, other intervening States
have an equal right to prescribe a different order, e. g. that
messages relating to sickness and death shall be preferred
to other private me,.isages, etc. See Title 65, U. S. Rev.
Stat., §§ 5263 et seq.; Md. Pub. L., 1904, § 328; N. Y.
Cons. L., 1909, c. 63, § 103; Brightley's Purdon's Dig.,
1895, 2001; California Civil Code of 1897, § 2207; South
Dakota Civil Code, § 1604.
Under the statute in question the place of the default is
immaterial, for there could be no recovery even if such
default had been in Virginia. There is no competent
evidence of any default in Virginia.
Mr. J. Kent Rawley for defendants in error:
The Virginia statute requires that the message shall be
tralmomitted as promptly as practicable, which is the plain
duty of the company under the general law of the land,
and is in aid of rather than a burden upon or an obstruction of commerce. Western Union Tel. Co. v. Pendleton,
122 U. S. 347, distinguished. The provision in the Indiana statute is mandatory, and may affect the order of
sending of interstate messages while the Virginia statute
does not require the telegraph company to give preference over any class of messages, but is permissive only.
See The Brig James Gray, 21 How. 184; Railroad Company v. Fuller, 17 Wall. 560. This case is controlled by
.Western Union Tel. Co. v. James, 162 U. S. 650, which
has been often followed and approved. See Hennington
v. Georgia, 163 U. S. 299; N. Y. & N. H. R. R. Co. v. New
York, 165 U. S. 628; Chicago, M. &c. Ry. Co. v. Sloan, 169
U. S. 133; Cleveland &c. i.. Co. v. Illinois, 177 U. S. 514;
Western Union Tel. Co. v. Wilson, 213 U. S. 52; Nashville
V. Alabama, 128 U. S. 96; Smith v. Alabama, 124 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

465; Commonwealth v. Alger, 7 Cush. 53; Lake Shore Ry.
Co. v. Ohio &c., 173 U. S. 285; Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Larabec, 211 U. S.621; Arkansas Ry. Co. v. German Nat.
Bank, 77 Arkansas, 489; U. S. Express Co. v. State, 164
Indiana, 204; Western Union Tel. Co. v. Hughes, 104
Virginia, 241; Postal Telcraph Co. v. Umstader, 103
Virginia, 744; Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v. Commonwealth, 102 Virginia, 599, 616; Western Union Tel. Co. v.
Powell, 94 Virginia, 268.
MR. JUSTICE LURTON delivered the opinion of the court.
Action to recover statutory penalty for the negligent
failure to promptly transmit a prepaid message accepted
at the Richmond office of the telegraph company, addressed to a business correspondent at Brockton, New
York. The declaration averred that the negligence occurred in the office at Richmond.
There was issue joined and a jury. The defendant demurred to the evidence. This was overruled because the
court was of opinion that from the facts and circumstances
the jury might find that the negligence in transmission
occurred in the sending office at Richmond. There was a
verdict and judgment for the plaintiff.
A writ of error was denied by the Supreme Court of
Appeals, under local practice, because the court thought
"the judgment was plainly right."
The plaintiff in error has sued out two writs of errol,
one to the law and equity court of the city of Richmond,
the trial court, and another to the Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia. Inasmuch as the latter court denied a
writ of error, the judgment of the law and equity court
was the highest court of the State to which the case could
be carried, and a writ will thceiore lie to that court if a
Federal question is properly saved.
The statute which it is claimed operates as a regulation

WEST. UN. TEL. CO. v. CROVO.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of interstate commerce, and under which the action was
brought, is set out in the margin.1
It makes it the duty of every telegraph company doing
business in the State to receive and transmit prepaid
messages "faithfully, impartially, with substantial accuracy, as promptly as practicable." But the standard
of duty under the statute is precisely that imposed at
common law upon such a common carrier. The imposition
of a penalty for the purpose of enforcing the statute was
plainly within the legislative power of the State, if the act
was otherwise valid. Ling Su Fan v. United States, 218
U. S. 302, 306.
But it is said the act requires that messages shall be
transmitted in the order received, though preference may
be given to business of the United States, the State and
the public press, and that this is a regulation which may
conflict with a different rule prescribed by other States
'It shall be the duty of every telegraph company doing business in
this State to receive and transmit dispatches from and for other telegraph or telephone companies or lines, and from and for any person,
upon the payment of the usual charges therefor, if such payment is
demanded; to transmit the same faithfully, impartially, with substantial accuracy, as promptly as practicable, and in the order of delivery to the said company. For every failure to. transmit a dispatch
faithfully, impartially, with substantial accuracy, and for every failure
to transmit a dispatch as promptly as practicable, or in the order of its
delivery to the company, the company shall forfeit the sum of one
hundred dollars to the person sending or offering to send such dispatch, or to the person to whom it was addressed: Provided, however,
that not more than one recovery shall be had on one dispatch, and the
recovery by one party entitled thereto shall be a bar to the recovery of
the other party. But nothing herein shall prevent any such company
from giving preference to dispatches on official business from or to
officers of the United States or the State of Virginia, or from making
arrangements with proprietors or publishers of newspapers for the
transmission to them for publication of intelligence of general and
public interest out of its regular order." Section 5, ch. 8 of Public
Service Corporation Act, January 18, 1904.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
-Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

and may constitute a hindrance and impediment to interstate commerce.
It is not clear that such result may follow if the act be
regarded as applying only to dispatches received within
the State, although destined to persons beyond the State.
The act, unlike the Indiana statute involved in the Pendleton Case, 122 U. S. 347, neither regulates delivery in nor
out of the State and -prescribes- no preference in transmission. The company is permitted to give certain preferences named, but is not required to do so.
But we are not called upon to consider whether that
particular requirement, one separable from all the others,
is valid or not. The single ground, of action stated
in the plaintiff's declaration was that his prepaid message had not been transmitted "as promptly. as practicable," and that this was due to negligence within the
State.
The duty of :transmitting without unreasonable delay
was, as already stated, the clear common-law duty of the
company, a duty to which the statute adds only the imposition of a penalty for default. The issue of fact in the
state court was whether the delay, however caused, occurred within the limits of the State. Stated more definitely, it was whether the fault-was that of the Richmond
office, which accepted the message, or that of the New
York office, where it is said the message must be relayed
over another wire to reach either Brockton or Brooklyn
in the State of New York. The indisputable fact was that
.a message addressed to Brockton, New York, was sent to
Brooklyn, New York. Somebody somewhere made a
blunder, 'by which there occurred delay in the proper
transmission of the message. Now, if that mistake was
made at Richmond, the negligence occurred within the
limits of the State. If it was correctly sent to the relay
point and the mistake occurred in relaying, the negligence
occurred beyond the limits of the State, and the failure to

WEST. UN. TEL. CO. v. CROVO.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

transmit "as promptly -as practicable" did not occur
within the state limits.
This issue of fact has been found against the plaintiff in
error. Nine hours after the message was accepted the
plaintiff received a written notice in these words:
"THE WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY,

"(Incorporated)
'Richmond, Va., Sept. 25, 1907.
"M. CRovo AND CRENSHAW:
"Your dispatch dated to-day to S. P. Morse ,& Sons
Brooklyn New. York is undelivered.
"Reason: Unable to locate party. Give better address.
"A. C.

STEVENTON,

"Per C.,
"Manager, -Richmond, Va., office."
The manager of the company's office at Richmond
testified that the notice above set out, "Sent to the plaintiff in the usual and ordinary course of business, meant
that the message Was sent from Richmond, Virginia, to
Brooklyn, New York, and not to Brockton, New York."
The only question for decision is whether a statute of
the State of Virginia which .imposes a penalty for the
failure to transmit a dispatch received at an office of the
company in the State for transmission to a person 'in
another State is a 'valid exercise-of the power of the State,
the delay occurring in the State.
That companies engaged in the telegraph business,
whose lines extend from one State to another, are engaged
in interstate commerce, and that messages passing from
one State to another constitute such commerce, is indisputable. Such companies and such messages come,
therefore, under the regulating power of Congress. It
follows then, that if this statute as applied in the state
court is to be construed as a regulation of commerce between the States, it is in excess of the power of the State
VOL. ccxx-24

OCTOBER TFERM, 1910.
Opinion of tie Court.

220 U. S.

Westera Union Tel. Co. v. Texas, 105 Texas, 460; Western
Union Tel. Co. v. Pendleton, -122 U. S. 347; Western Union
Tel. Co. v. James, 162 U. S. 650; Western Union Tel. Co.
v. Commercial Milling Co., 218 U. S. 406, 416.
In the Pendleton Case a statute of Indiana which imposed a penalty for the failure to deliver by messenger
a dispatch sent by the sender in Indiana to a person addressed at a station in Iowa was held an attempt to
regulate the method of delivery outside of the State, and.
thereforean interference with and regulation of interstate
commerge.
In the James Case a statute of Georgia which imposed
a penalty for the failure to diligently deliver to the person
addressed in Georgia an interstate message was upheld
as a valid exercise of state power in the absence of legislation upon the subject by Congress. In that case the
court, by Mr. Justice Peckham, distinguished the Pendleton Case, saying:
"Nor. is, the statute open to the same objections that
were regarded as fatal in the Pendleton Case, 122 U. S. 347.
No attempt is here made to enforce the provisions of the
state statute beyond the limits of the State, and no other
State could by legislative enactment affect in any degree
the duty of the company in relation to the delivery of
messages within the limits of the State of Georgia. No
confusion, therefore, could be expected in carrying out
within the limits of that State the provisions of the statute.
It is true it provides a penalty for a violation of its terms
and permits a recovery of the amount thereof irrespective
of the question whether any actual damages have been
sustained by the individual who brings the suit; but that
is only a matter in aid of the performance of the general
duty owed by the company. It is not a regulation of
commerce, but a provision which only incidentally affects
it. We do not mean to be understood as holding that any
state law on this subject would be valid, even in the

WEST. UN. TEL. CO. v. CROVO.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

absence of Congressional legislation, if the penalty provided were so grossly excessive that the necessary operation of such legislation would be to impede interstate
commerce. Our decision in this case would form no
precedent for holding valid such legislation. It might
then be urged that legislation of that character was not
in aid of commerce, but was of a nature-well calculated
to harass and to impede it. Whilethe penalty in the
present statute is quite ample for a mere neglect to deliver in some cases, we cannot say that it is so unreasonable as to be outside of and beyond the jurisdiction of
the State to enact.

"While it is vitally important that commerce between
the States should be unembarrassed by vexatious state
regulations regarding ,it, yet, on the other hand, there
are many occasions where the police power of the State
can be properly exercised to insure a faithful and prompt
performance of duty within the limits of the State upon
the part of those who are engaged in interstate commerce.
We think the statute in question is one of that class,
and in the absence of any legislation by Congress the
statute is a valid exercise of-the power of the State over
the subject."
In Western Union Tel. Co. v. Commercial Milling Co.,
supra, a statute of Michigan which prohibited contractual
limitation of the common-law liability due to the negligence of the company in transmission or delivery was
upheld as applied to a message received at the company's
office in Michigan for transmission to a person in another
State. Distinguishing the Pendleton Case, Mr. Justice
McKenna, for this Court, said:
"But there is a manifest difference between the statute
of Indiana and the statute of Michigan and of their purposes and effects. The former imposed affirmative duties
and regulated the performance of the business of the telegraph company. It besides ignored the requirements or

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

regulations of another State, made its laws paramount,
to the laws of another State, gave an action for damages
against the permission of such laws for acts done within
their jurisdiction. Such a statute was plainly a regulation of interstate commerce, and exhibited in a conspicuous degree the evils of such interference by a State and
the necessity of one uniform plan of regulation. The statute of Michigan has no, such objectionable qualities. It
imposes no additional duty. It gives sanction only to an
inherent duty. It declares that in the performance of a
service, public in its nature, it is a policy of the State
that there shall be no contract against negligence. The
prohibition of the statute, therefore, entails no burden.
It permits no release from that duty in the public service
which men in their intercourse must observe, the duty
of observing the degree of care and vigilance which the
circumstances justly demand, to avoid injury to another."
The requirement of the Virginia statute as here applied
is a valid exercise of the power of the State in the absence
of legislation by Congress. It is neither a regulation of
nor a hindrance to interstate commerce, but is in aid of
that commerce.
The case is clearly governed by Western Union Tel. Co.
v. James and Western Union Tel. Co. v. Commercial
Milling Co., both above cited.
Judgment affirmed.

