OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

220 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. GRIMAUD.
'SAM E v. INDA.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTIICT OF CALIFORNIA.
Nos. 241, 242.- Argued February 28, 1910; affirmed by divided court
March 14, 1910; restored to docket for reargument April .18,1910; reargued March 3, 1911.-Decided .May 3, 1911.
Under the acts establishing forest* reservations, their use for grazing
or other lawful purposes is subject to rules and regulations established by the Secretary of Agriculture, and it being impracticable for
Congress to provide general regulations, that body acted within its
constitutional power in conferring power on the Secretary to establish such rides; the power so conferred bein g admiqistrative and not
legislative, is not an unconstitutional delegation.
While it is-difficult to define the line which separates legislative power
to make laws and -dministrative authority to make regulations,
Congress may delegate power to fill up details where it has indicated
its will in the statute, and it may make violations of such regulations
punishable as indicated in the. statute; and so held, that regulations
made by the Secretary of Agriculture as to grazing sheep on forest'
• reserves'have the force of law and *thatviolations thereof are punishable, under. act'of June 4, 1897, c. 2, 30 Stat. 35, as prescribed
in § 5388,,'Rev. Stat.
Congress cannot delegate legisla'tive power, Field v.. Clark, 143 U. S.
692, but the authority to make administrative rules is not a delegation of legislative power, and such rules do not become legislation
because violations thereof are punished as public offenses.
'Even if there is no express act of Congress making it unlawful to graze
sheep or- cattle on. a forest reserve, when Congress expressly provides that such reserves can only be used for lawful purposes subject to'regulations and makes a violation of such regulations an
'pse, any existing implied license: to graze is curtailed and qualilied by Congrqss; and one violating .the regulations when promul-

gated makes an unlawful use of the Government's property and becomes sub ect to the penalty imposed.

UNITED STATES v. GRIMAUD.
220 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

A provision in an act of Congress as to the use made of moneys received from government property clearly indicates an authority to
the executive officer authorized by statute to make regulations regarding the property to impose a charge for its use.
Where the penalty for violations of regulations to be made by an
executive officer is prescribed by statute, the violation is not made
a crime by such officer but by Congress, and Congress and not such
officer fixes the penalty, nor is the offense against such officer but
against the United States.
170 Fed. Rep. 205, reversed.

By the act of March 3, 1891, c. 561 (26 Stat. 1103), the
President was authorized, from time to time, to set apart
and reserve, in any State or Territory, public lands,
wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth,
whether of commercial value or not, as public forest reservations. And by the act of June 4, 1897, c. 2 (30 Stat.
35), the purposes of these reservations were declared to be
"to improve and protect the forest within the reservation,
and to secure favorable conditions of water flows, and to
furnish a continuous supply of timber for the use and
necessities of citizens of the United States." .
"All waters on such reservations may be used for domestic, mining, milling or irrigation purposes, under the laws
of the State wherein such forest reservations are situated,
or under the laws of the United States and the rules and
regulations established thereunder." (30 Stat. 36.)
It is also provided that nothing in the act should "be
construed as prohibiting the egress and ingress of actual
settlers residing within the boundaries of such reservations,

.

.

.

nor shall anything herein

.

.

.

pro-

hibit any person from entering upon such forest reservation for all proper and lawful purposes,

.

.

.

provided

that such persons comply with the rules and regulations
covering such forest reservation."
There were special provisions as to the sale of timber
from any reserve (except those in the State of California,
30 Stat. 35, c. 2; 31 Stat. 661, c. 804), and a requirement

OCTOBER-TERM, 1910.
Statement of the Case.

220 U. S.

that the proceeds thereof and from any other forest
source
'should be covered into the Treasury, the act of
February
1, 1905, 33 Stat. 628, c. 288, providing
that
"all money received from the sale of any products or the
use of any land or resources of said forest reserve shall be
covered into the Treasury of the United States for a period
of five years from the passage of this act, and shall con,stitute a special fund available, until expended, as the
Secretary of Agriculture may direct, for the protection,
administration, improvement and extension of Federal
Forest Reserves."
The act of 1905 as to receipts arising from the sale of
any products or the use of any land was, in some respects,
•modified. by the act of March 4, 1907, c. 2907, 34 Stat.
1256, 1270. It provided that all moneys received after
July 1, 1907, by or on account of forest service timber';
or from any other source of forest reservation revenue,
shall be covered into the Treasury, '"provided that ten
per cent-of all money received from each forest reserve
during any fiscal year, including the year ending June 30,
.1906, shall be paid at the end thereof by the Secretary
of. the Treasury to the State .or Territory in which said
reserve is situated, to be expended as the State or Ternitorial legislature may prescribe for the benefit of the public schools and public roads in the county or counties
in Which the-forest reserve is situated."
The jurisdiction, both civil and .criminal, over persons
within such reservation was not to be affected by the establishment thereof ".except so far as the punishment of
offenses against the United States therein is concerned';
the intent being that the'State shall not by reason. of the
establishment of the 'reserve lose its jurisdiction, nor the
inhabitants thereof their rights and. privileges as citizens,
or be absolved from their duty.as citizens of -the State."
The original act, provided that the management and
regulation of these reserves should be. by the Secretary

UNITED STATES v. GRIMAUD.
220 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

of the Interior, but in 1905 that power was conferred upon
the Secretary of Agriculture, (33 Stat. L. 628), and by virtue of those various statutes he was authorized to "make
provision for the protection against destruction by fire
and depredations upon the public forests and forest res. ; and he may make such rules and
ervations ...
regulations and establish such service as will insure the
objects of such reservation, namely, to regulate their
occupancy and use, and to preserve the forests thereon
from destruction; and any violation of the provisions of
this act or such rules and regulations shall be punished
as prescribed in Rev. Stat., § 5388," which, as amended,
provides for a fine of not more than five hundred dollars
and imprisonment for not more than twelve months or
both, at the discretion of the court. 26 Stat., 1103,
c. 561; 30 Stat. 34; c. 235; 31 Stat. 661, c. 804; 33
Stat. 36; 7 Fed. Stat. Anno. §§ 310-317, 296, Supp. 1909,
p. 634.
Under these acts the Secretary of Agriculture, on
June 12, 1906, promulgated and established certain rules
for the purpose of regulating the use and occupancy of
the public forest reservations and preserving the forests
thereon from destruction, and among those established
was the following:
"Regulation; 45. All persons must secure permits before grazing any stock in a forest reserve,, except the few
head in' actual use by prospectors, campers and travelers
and milch or work animals, not exceeding a total of six
head, owned by bona fide settlers residing in or near a
forest reserve, which are excepted and require no permit."
The defendants were charged with driving and grazing
sheep on a reserve,, without a permit. The grand jury
in the District Court for the Southern District of California, at the: November term, 1907, indicted Pierre
Grimaud and J. P. Carajous, charging that on April 26,
1907, after the Sierra Forest Reserve had been estab-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for the United States.

220 U. S.

lished, and after regulation 45 had been promulgated,
"they did knowingly, wilfully and unlawfully pasture and
graze and cause and procure to be pastured and grazed

certain sheep (the exact' number being to the grand jurors unknown) upon certain land within the limits of and
a part of said Sierra Forest Reserve, without having
theretofore or at any time secured or obtained a permit
or any permission for said pasturing or grazing of said
sheep or any part .of them, as required by the said rules
and regulations of the Secretary of Agriculture," the said
sheep not being within any of the excepted classes. The
indictment concluded, "contrary to the form of the statutes of the United States in such case made and provided,
and against the peace and dignity of the said United
States."
The defendants demurred, upon the ground (1) that
the facts stated did not constitute a public offense, or a
public offense against the United States, and (2) that
the acts of Congress making it an offense to violate rules
and regulations made and promulgated by the Secretary
of Agriculture are unconstitutional, in that they are an
attempt by Congress to delegate its legislative power
to an administrative officer." The court sustained the
demurrers, (170 Fed. Rep. 205), and made a like ruling
on the similar indictment in United States v. Inda, 216
U. S. 614. Both judgments were affirmed by a divided
court. Afterwards petitions for rehearing were granted.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Fowler, with whom
Mr. Loring C. Christie was on the brief, for the United
States. Mr. Solicitor 'General Bowers on the original argument
Congress has power to enact legislation for the protection of its public lands, and, if it deems advisable,
to enact criminal laws to prevent trespasses thereon.
Camfield v. United States, 167 U. S. 518, 525.

UNITED STATES v. GRIMAUD.
220 U.S.

Argument for the United States.

A violation of the regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Agriculture upon which, and the statute authorizing them, this indictment is based, constitutes an offense,
and renders the offender liable to punishment in accordance with the terms of the statute. United States v. Bailey,
9 Pet. 238, 252, 254, 256.
A certain act upon the part of a person becomes a criminal offense in consequence and by virtue of a regulation
adopted by the executive officer where such officer's
action in adopting such regulation is essential to the existence of the offense. Caha v. United States, 152 U. S.
211, 218; United States v. Eaton, 144 U. S. 677, distinguished; and see In re Kollock, 165 U. S. 526; United
States v. Breen, 40 Fed. Rep. 402; St. Louis & Iron Mt.
Ry. Co. v. Taylor, 210 U. S. 281.
The act of Congress under which the Secretary of
Agriculture promulgated the regulation in question did
not involve an improper attempt to delegate legislative
power to an administrative officer. Brown v. Turner,
70 N. Car. 93, 102; Union Bridge Co. v. United States,
204 U. S. 364, 382; Dastervignes Case, 122 Fed. Rep. 30,
34; West v. Hitchcock, 205 U. S. 80; Interstate Com. Comm.
v. Chi., R. I. & P. R. R. Co., 218 U. S. 88; Tilley v. Savannah &c. Ry. Co., 5 Fed. Rep. 641; Chicago &c. Ry. Co. v.
Dey, 35 Fed. Rep. 866; Interstate Com. Comm. v. Ill. Cent.
R. R. Co., 215 U. S. 452; Willoughby on the Constitution,
§ 781.
The act was unlawful irrespective entirely of regulation 45 or of any other rule of the Department. It was
an entry and trespass on the lands of the United States.
Camfield v. United States, supra; Buford v. Houtz, 133
U. S. 320, 326, distinguished, and see Wilcox v. McConnel,
13 Pet. 496, 512. The Secretary did not attempt to make
unlawful that which, but for such rules, would have 'been
lawful, as in United States v. Moody, 164 Fed. Rep. 269.
Congress has a much more exclusive control over pub-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for the United States.

220 U. S.

lic forest lands and reservations, and a much wider range
of means in exercising it, than it has in respect to its
more general functions under the Constitution. See as
to other similar powers, Oceanic Nay. Co. v. Stranahan,
214 U. S. 320; Ex parte Reed, 100 U. S. 13; Smith v. Whitney, 116 U. S. 167; Cosmos Co. v. Gray Eagle Co., 190 U. S.
301, 309; Butte City Water Co. .v. Baker, 196 U. S. 119,
125.
The general theory of government that there should
be no union between the several departments does not
apply any more than it did irf Union Bridge Co. v. United
States, 204 U. S. 364, and Oceanic Nay. Co. v. Stranahan,:
supra.
The fact that the Secretary has the power to change
the regulations in question, and has from time to time

had in force regulations different in some respects to the
present one, does not render the act of Congress invalid.

The Government's contention is sustained by the
weight of authority among the lower United States courts.
As to the validity of the Secretary's regulation for civil
purposes see, United States v. Shannon, 151 Fed. Rep.
863; S. C., 160 Fed. Rep. 870; Dastervignes v. United
States, 122 Fed. Rep. 30; United States v. Dastervignes,
118 Fed. Rep. 199. The following have held indictment
for violation of the regulation supportable: United States
v. Deguirro, 152 Fed. Rep. 568; United States v. Domingo,
152 Fed. Rep. 566; United States v. Bale, 156 Fed. Rep.
687. On the other hand, the following held such an indictment bad: United States v. Blasingame, 116 Fed. Rep.
654; United States v. Bale, 156 Fed. Rep.
687; United
States v. Rizzinelli, i82 Fed. Rep. 675; Dent v. United
States, 8 Arizona, 413; United States v. Reder, 69 Fed. Rep.
965; United.States v. Williams, 6 Montana, 379; United
States v. Trading Company, 109 Fed. Rep. 239; United
States v. Ormsbee, 74 Fed. Rep. 207; United States v.
Moody, 164 Fed. Rep. 269; Van Lear v. Eisle, 126 Fed.

UNITED STATES v. GRIMAUD.
220 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

Rep. 823; United States v. Slater, 123 Fed. Rep. 115;
Stratton v. Oceanic Steamship Co., 140 Fed. Rep. 829.
As to other instances in which Congress has conferred
upon executive officers equally broad powers to be exercised in administering the laws relating to public lands,
see act of June 3, 1878, c. 150, 20 Stat. 88; act of June 3,
1878, c. 151, 20 Stat. 89; act of March 3, 1891, c. 561, as
amended by the act of March 3, 1891, c. 559, 26 Stat. 1093;
act of October 1, 1890, c. 1263, 26 Stat. 650; act of February 28, 1899, c. 221, 30 Stat. 908; § 2478, Rev. Stat.
A criminal indictment lies for transgression of the department regulation concerning stock grazing upon a
forest reservation, 22 Ops. Atty. Gen. 266.
Mr. J. M. Hodgson, with whom Mr. W. W. Kaye and
Mr. Robert P. Stewart were on the brief, for defendants
in error:
The law is unconstitutional, as it does not sufficiently
define, or define at all, what acts done or omitted to be
done, within the supposed purview of the said act, shall
constitute an offense or offenses against the United States.
State v. Mann, 2 Oregon, 238, 241; State v. Smith, 30 La.
Ann. 846; United States v. Eaton, 144 U. S. 677; United
States v. Grimaud, 170 Fed. Rep. 206; Cook v. State
(Ind.), 59 N. E. Rep. 489; United States v. Reese, 92 U. S.
214, 256; Sarlls v. United States, 152 U. S. 571; Todd v.
United States, 158 U. S. 278; Augustine v. State (Tex.),
52 S. W. Rep. 80; State v. Partlow, 91 N. Car. 550;
McGuire v. Dist. of Col., 65 L. R. A. 430; Tozer v. United
States, 52 Fed. Rep. 917; Louisville & Nash. R. R. Co. v.
Commonwealth (Ky.), 33 L. R. A. 209; Drake v. Drake,
4 Dev. 110; Commonwealth v. Bank, 3 Watts & S. 173; 4
Blackstone's Comm. 5; 12 Cyc. 129; Ex parte McNulty,
77 California, 164; Peters v. United States, 36 C. C. A.
105.
The law under which the indictments were found is
VOL. ccxx-33

514

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

unconstitutional, as it is not within the power of Congress
to delegate to the Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary of Agriculture or any other person, authority or
power to determine what acts shall be criminal; and the
act in question is a delegation of legislative power to an
executive officer to define and establish what shall constitute the essential elements of a crime against the United
States. United States v. Matthews, 146 Rep. Fed. 306;
United States v. Maid, 166 Fed. Rep. 650; United States
v. Blasingame, 166 Fed. Rep. 654; United States v. Eaton,
144 U. S. 677; United States v. Bridge Co., 45 Fed. Rep.
178; United States v. Rider, 50 Fed. Rep. 106; O'Neil v.
Am. Fire Ins. Co., 166 Pa. St. 72; Adams v. Burdge, 95
Wisconsin, 390; Dowling v. Lancashire Ins. Co., 92 Wisconsin, 63; Anderson v. Manchester Fire Ins. Co., 59
Minnesota, 182; Ex parte Cox, 63 California, 21; Harbor
Com'r v. Excelsior Redwood Co., 88 California, 491; Schaezlein v. Cabaniss, 135 California, 466; Kilbourn v. Thompson, 103 U. S. 168, 191; United States v. Wiltberger, 5
Wheat. 85.
after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR,

The defendants were indicted for grazing sheep on the
Sierra Forest Reserve without having obtained the permission required by the regulations adopted by the Secretary of Agriculture. They demurred on the ground that
the Forest Reserve Act of 1891 was unconstitutional, in
so far as it delegated to the Secretary of Agriculture
power to make rules and regulations and made a violation
thereof a penal offense. Their several demurrers were sustained. The Government brought the case here under that
clause of the Criminal Appeals Act, '(March 2, 19Q7, c. 2564,
34 Stat. 1246,), which allows a writ of error where th "de.
cision complained of was based upon the invalidity of the
statute. '

UNITED STATES v. GRIMAUD.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The Federal courts have been divided on the question
as to whether violations of those regulations of the Secretary of Agriculture constitute a crime. The rules were
held to be valid for civil purposes in Dastervignes v.
United States, 122 Fed. Rep. 30; United States v. Dastervignes, 118 Fed. Rep. 199; United States v. Shannon, 151
Fed. Rep. 863; S. C., 160 Fed. Rep. 870. They were also
sustained in criminal prosecutions in United States v.
Deguirro, 152 Fed. Rep. 568; United States v. Domingo,
152 Fed. Rep. 566; United States v. Bale, 156 Fed. Rep.
687; United States v. Rizzinelli, 182 Fed. Rep. 675. But
the regulations were held to be invalid in United States
v. Blasingame, 116 Fed. Rep. 654; United States v. Matthews, 146 Fed. Rep. 306; Dent v. United States, 8 Arizona,
138.
From the various acts relating to the establishment and
management of forest reservations it appears that they
were intended "to improve and protect the forest and to
secure favorable conditions of water flows." It was declared that the acts should not be "construed to prohibit
the egress and ingress of actual settlers" residing therein
nor "to prohibit any person from entering the reservation
for all proper and lawful purposes, including that of prospecting, and locating and developing mineral resources;
provided that such persons comply with the rules and reg(Act of 1897,
ulations covering such forest reservation."
c. 2, 30 Stat. 36.) It was also declared that the Secretary
"may make such rules and regulations and establish such
service as will insure the objects of such reservation,
namely, to regulate their occupancy and use and to preserve the forests thereon from destruction; and any violation of the provisions of this act or such rules and regulations shall be punished" as is provided in § 5388, c. 3, p.
1044 of the Revised Statutes, as amended.
Under these acts, therefore, any use of the reservation
for grazing or other lawful purpose was required to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U.S.

subject to the rules and regulations established by the
Secretary of Agriculture. To pasture sheep and cattle on
the reservation, at will and without restraint, might
interfere seriously with the accomplishment of the purposes for which they Were established. But a limited and
regulated use for pasturage might not be inconsistent with
the object sought to be attained by the statute. The
determination of such questions, however, was a matter
of administrative detail. What might be harmless in one
forest might be harmful to another. What might be injurious at one stage of timber growth, or ,t one seasonof
the year, might not be so at another.
In the nature of things it was impracticable for Congress
to provide general regulations for these various and varying details of management. Each reservation had its
peculiar and special features; and in authorizing the Secretary of Agriculture to meet these local conditions Congress was merely conferring administrative functions upon
an agent, and not delegating to him legislative power.
The authority actually given was much less than what
has been granted to municipalities by virtue of which
they make by-laws, ordinances and regulationF for the
government of towns and cities. Such ordinances do not
declare general rules with reference to rights of persons
and property, nor do they create or regulate obligations
and liabilities, nor declare what shall be crimes nor fix
penalties therefor.
By whatever name they are called they refer to matters.
of local management and local police. Brodbine v. Revere,
182 Massachusetts, 598. They are "not of legislatiive
character in the highest sense of the term; and as an owner
may delegate -to his principal agent the right to employ
subordinates, giving them a limited discretion, so it, would
seem that Congress might rightfully entrust to the local
legislature [authorities] the determination of minor matters." Buttc City Water Co. v. Baker, 196 U. S. 126.

UNITED STATES v. GRIMAUD.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court..

It must be admitted that it is difficult to define the line
which separates legislative power to make laws, from administrative authority to make regulations. This difficulty
has often been recognized, and was referred to by Chief
Justice Marshall in Wayman v. Southard, 10 Wheat. 1, 42,
where he was considering the authority of courts to make
rules. He there said: "It will not be contended that Congress can delegate to the courts, or to any other tribunals,.
powers which are strictly and exclusively legislative.
But Congress may certainly delegate to others, powers
which the legislature may rightfully exercise itself."
What were these non-legislative powers which Congress
could exercise but which- might also be delegated to others
was not determined, for he said: "The line has not been
exactly drawn .V ich separates those important subjects,
which must be entirely regulated by the legislature' itself,
from those of less interest, in which a general provision may
be made, and power given to those who are to act under
such general provisions to fill up the details."
From the beginning, of the Government various acts
have been passed conferring upon exeeutive officers
power to make rules and regulations--not for the government of their departments, but for administering the laws
which did govern. None -of these statutes could confer
legislative power. But when Congress had legislated and
indicated its will, it could give to those who were to act
under such general provisions "power to fill up the details"
by the establishment of administrative rules and regulations, the violation of which could be punished by fine or
imprisonment fixed by Congress, or by penalties fixed by
Congress or measured by the injury done.
Thus it is unlawful to charge unreasonable rates or to
discriminate between shippers, and the Interstate Commerce Commission has been given authority to make reasonable rates and to administer the law against discrimination. Int. Com. Comm. v. Ill. Cent. R. .R., 215 U. S. 452;

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.

Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

Int. Com. Comm. v. Chicago, Rock Island &c. R. R., 218
U. S. 88. Congress provided that after a given date only
cars with drawbars of uniform height should be used in
interstate commerce, and then constitutionally left to the
Commission the administrative duty of fixing a uniform
standard. St. Louis & Iron Mountain R. R. v. Taylor,
210 U. S. 281, 287. In Union Bridge Co. v. United States,
204 U. S. 364; In re Kollock, 165 U. S. 526; Buttfield v.
Stranahan,192 U. S. 470, it appeared from the statutes involved that Congress had either expressly or by necessary
implication made it unlawful, if not criminal, to obstruct
navigable streams; to sell unbranded oleomargarine; or
to import unwholesome teas. With this unlawfulness as
a predicate the executive officers were authorized to make
rules and regulations appropriate to the 6everal matters
covered by the various acts. A violation of these rules
was then made an offense punishable as prescribed by
Congress. But in making these regulations the officers
did not legislate. They did not go outside of the circle of
that which the act itself had affirmatively required to be
done, or treated as unlawful if done. But confining themselves within the field covered by the statute they could
adopt regulations of the nature they had thus been generally authorized to make, in order to administer the law
and carry the statute into effect.
The defendants rely on United States v. Eaton, 144 U. S.
677, where the act authorized the Commissioner to make
rules for carrying the statute into effect, but imposed no
penalty for failing to observe his regulations. Another
section (5) required that the dealer should keep books
showing certain facts, and providing that he should conduct. his business under such surveillance of officers as the
Commissioner might by regulation require. Another section declared that if any dealer should knowingly omit to
do any of the things "required by law" he should pay a
penalty of a thousand dollars. Eaton failed to keep the

UNITED STATES v. GRIMAUD.
220 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

books required by the regulations. But there was no charge
that he omitted "anything required by law," unless it.could
be held that the books called for by the regulations were
"required by law." The court construed the act as a whole
and proceeded on the theory that while a violation of the
regulations might have been punished as an offense if Congress had so enacted, it had, in fact, made no such provision so far as concerned the particular charge then under
consideration. Congress required the dealer to keep books
rendering return of materials and products, ' but imposed
no penalty for failing so to do. The Commissioner went
much further and required the dealer to keep books showing oleomargarine received, -from whom received, and to
whom the same was sold. It was sought to punish the
defendant for failing to keep the books required by the
regulations. Manifestly this was putting the regulations
above the statute. The court showed that when Congress
enacted that a certain sort of book should be kept, the
Commissioner could not go further and require additional
books; or, if he did make such regulation, there was no provision in the statute by which a failure to comply therewith
could be punished. It said that, "if Congress intended to
make it an offense for wholesale dealers to omit to keep
books and render returns required by regulations of the
Commissioner, it would have done so distinctly "-imply-*
ing that if it had done so distinctly the violation of the regulations would have been an offense.
But the very thing which was omitted in the Oleomargarine Act has been distinctly done in the Forest Reserve
Act, which, in terms, provides that "any violation of the
provisions of this act or such rules and regulations of the
Secretary shall be punished as prescribed in section 5388
of the Revised Statutes as amended."
In Union Bridge Co. v. United States, 204 U. S. 364,
386, Mr. Justice Harlan, speaking for the court, said:
"By the statute in question Congress declared in effect

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

that navigation should be freed from unreasonable obstructions arising from bridges of insufficient height, width
of span or other defects. It stopped, however, with this
declaration of a general rule and imposed upon the Secretary of War the duty of ascertaining what particular cases
came within the rule prescribed by Congress, as well as the
duty of enforcing the rule in such cases. In performing
that duty the Secretary of War will only execute the clearly
expressed will of Congress, and will not, in any true sense,
exert legislative or judicial power."
And again he said in Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649, 694:
"The legislature cannot delegate its power to make a
law, but it can make a law to delegate a power to determine
some fact or state of things upon which the law makes, or
intends to make its own action depend. To deny this
would be to stop the wheels of government. There are
many things upon which wise and useful legislation must
depend which cannot be known to the lawmaking power,
and must, therefore, be a subject of inquiry and determination outside of the halls of legislation." See also Caha v.
United States, 152 U. S.211; United States v. Bailey, 9 Pet.
238; Cosmos Co. v. Gray Eagle Co., 190 U. S. 309; Oceanic
Navigation Co; v. Stranahan, 214 U. S.333; Roughton v.
Knight, 219 U. S.537 (Decided this Term); Smith v. Whitney, 116 U. S.467; Ex parte Reed, 100 U. S. 22; Gratiot
v. United States, 4 How. 81.
In Brodbine v. Revere, 182 Massachusetts, 598, a boulevard and park board was given authority to make rules and
regulations for the control and government of the roadways under its care. It was there held that the provision in
the act that breaches of the rules thus made should be
breaches -f the peace, punishable in any court having j urisdiction, was not a delegation of legislative power which
was unconstitutional. The court called attention to the
fact that the punishment was not fixed by the board, saying that the making of the rules was administrative, while

UNITED STATES v. GRIMAUD.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the substantive legislation was in the statute which provided that they should be punished as breaches of the
peace.
That "Congress cannot delegate legislative power to
the President is a principle universally recognized as vital
to the integrity and maintenance of the system of government ordained by the Constitution." Fieldv. Clark, 143
U. S. 649, 692. But the authority to make administrative
rules is not a delegation of legislative power, nor are such
rules raised from an administrative to a legislative character because the violation thereof is punished as a public
offense.
It is true that there is no act of Congress which, in express'terms, declares that it shall be unlawful to graze
sheep on a forest reserve. But the statutes, from which we
have quoted, declare, that the privilege of using reserves
for "all proper and lawful purposes" is subject to the proviso that the person so using them shall comply "with the
rules and regulations covering such forest reservation."
The same act makes it an offense to violate those regulations, that is, to use them otherwise than in accordance
with the rules established by the Secretary. Thus the implied license under which the United States had suffered
its public domain to be used as a pasture for sheep and
cattle, mentioned in Buford v. Hoytz, 133 U. S. 326, was
curtailed and qualified by Congress, to the extent that such
privilege should not be exercised in contravention of the
rules and regulations. Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Pet. 498, 513.
If, after the passage of the act and the prQmulgation of
the rule, the defendants drove and grazed their sheep upon
the reserve, in violation of the regulations, they were making an unlawful use of the Government's property. In doing so they thereby made themselves liable to the penalty
imposed by Congress.
It was argued that, even if the Secretary could establish
regulations under which a permit was required, there was

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

nothing in the act to indicate that Congress had intended
or authorized him to charge for the privilege of grazing
sheep on the reserve. These fees were fixed to prevent excessive grazing and thereby protect the young growth, and
native grasses, from destruction, and to make a slight income with which to meet the expenses of management.
Ir; addition to the general power in the act of 1897, already
quoted, the act of February 1, 1905, c. 288, p. 628, clearly
indicates that the Secretary was authorized to make
charges out of which a revenue from forest resources was
expected to arise. For it declares that "all money received
from the sale of any products or the use of any land or resources of said forest reserve" shall be covered into the
Treasury and be applied toward the payment of forest expenses. This act was passed before the promulgation of
regulation 45, set out in the indictment.
Subsequent acts also provide that money received from
''any source of forest reservation revenue" should be
covered into the Treasury, and a part thereof was to be
turned over to the treasurers of the respective States to
be expended for' the benefit of the public schools and public roads in the counties in which the forest reserves are
situated. (C. 2907, 34 Stat. 684, 1270.)
The Secretary of Agriculture could not make rules and
regulations for any and every purpose. Williamson v.
United States, 207 U. S.462. As to those here involved,
they all relate to matters clearly indicated and authorized by Congress. The subjects as to which the Secretary
can regulate are defined. The lands are set apart as a
forest reserve. He is required to make provision to protect
them from depredations and from harmful uses. He is
authorized "to regulate the occupancy and use and to preserve the forests from destruction." A-violation of reasonable rules regulating the use and occupancy of the property is made a crime, not by the Secretary, but by Congress. The statute, not the Secretary, fixes the penalty.

LIGHT v. UNITED STATES.
220 U. S.

Syllabus.

The indictment charges, and the demurrer admits that
Rule 45 was promulgated for the purpose of regulating the
occupancy and use of the public forest reservation and
preserving the forest. The Secretary did not exercise the
legislative power of declaring the penalty or fixing the punishment for grazing sheep without a permit, but the punishment is imposed by. the act itself. The offense is not
against the Secretary, but, as the indictment properly concludes, "contrary to the laws of the United States and the
peace and dignity thereof." The demurrers should have
been overruled. The affirmances by a divided court heretofore entered are set aside and the judgments in bothcases
Reversed.

LIGHT v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.

No. 360.

Argued February 27, 28, 1911.-Decided May 1, 1911.

United States v. Grimaud, ante, p. 506, followed to effect that Congress may authorize an executive officer to make rules and regulations as to the use, occupancy and preservation of forests and that
such authority so granted is not unconstitutional as a delegation of
legislative power.
At common law the owner was responsible for damage done by his
live stock on land of third parties, but the United States has tacitly
suffered its public domain to be used for cattle so long as such tacit
consent was not cancelled, but no vested rights have been conferred on any person, nor has the United States been deprived of the
power of recalling such implied license.
While the full scope of § 3, Art. IV, of the Constitution has never been
definitely settled it is primarily a grant of power to the United States
of control over its property, Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 89; this
control is exercised by Congress to the same extent-that an individual
can control his property.

