224

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.

Syllabus.

220 U. S.

cases should not be brought here by piecemeal through the
medium of successive appeals.
The motio.n to dismiss the appeal in each of the eases

must be granted.
Dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

PEREZ Y .FERNANDEZ v. FERNANDEZ Y PEREZ.
APPEAL FROM .THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR PORTO RICO.
No. 110.

Argued March 17, 1911.-Decided April 3, 1911.

Where the District Court of the United States for Porto Rico has
general jurisdiction under the act of March 2, 1901, c. 812, § 3,
31 Stat. 953, its power to award relief because of the situation of the
property involved against non-resident defendants not found within
the District depends on § 8 of.the act of March 3, 1875, c. 137, 18
Stat. 472; and the iight of.absent'parties'defendants not actually
personally notified to have the -suit reopened and to make defense
depends on the proviso to that section.
Where a defendant has not been actually personally notified as provided in § 8 of the act of 1875, but publication has been resorted to,
. he has a-right to appear and make defense within a year, independently of whether he has had knowledge or notice of the pendency
of the action by any methods other than those specified in. the
statute; and the court has no power to impose terms -except as to
costs.

District Court of the United States for Porto Rico having permitted certain defendants niot personally notified to come in and
defend to do so but only on condition of showing they had not received the published notice, had no knowledge of the pendency of
the suit and had no meritorious defense to the bill, the order is reversed, as the defendants have the right to have the case reopened
without terms other than payment of costs.

-The

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

PEREZ v. FERNANDEZ.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Frederic D. McKenney, with whom Mr. John
Spalding Flannery, Mr. William Hitz and Mr. T. D.
Mott, Jr., were on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. N. B. K. Pettingill and Mr. F. L. Cornwell for appellee submitted.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Jos6 Antonio Fernandez, a judgment creditor of Josg
Perez, in October, 1906, commenced in the court below
this •suit to unmask alleged fraudulent and simulated
mortgages and sales of certain described real property of
Perez, the judgment debtor, to the end that such property might be made available to pay the unsatisfied judgment debt. The defendants were Jos6 Perez, Victor
Ochoa and his Wife, all three alleged to be citizens and
residents of Spain and ten persons alleged to be citizens
and residents of Porto Rico who were averred to be and
.were sued as the heirs at law of one Maristany. It was
alleged that in the years 1899, 1900 and 1902 Perez, who
was the registered owner of certain enumerated, real estate, had executed and recorded deeds purporting to mortgage the same in favor of Ochoa and Maristany. These
deeds, it was alleged, were simulations executed by Perez
with the sole purpose of defrauding his creditors and preventing them from collecting their debts. It was additionally charged that to carry out the wrongful purpose
which had caused the acts of mortgage to be drawn and
recorded and in consequence of a conspiracy between
Perez and Ochoa, the latter had in May,. 1906, sued in the
court below to foreclose the apparent mortgages, and had
procured an order of sale and a sale thereunder to be made
by the marshal of the court, and at such sale had seemingly bought in the property and received a deed therefor.
Ochoa, the alleged plaintiff, was charged to have been but
VOL. ccxx-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

an interposed person acting, not for himself, but for Perez,
the ostensible defendant. Finally, it was charged that the
property standing in the name of Ochoa, the alleged purchaser, had despite the sale continuously remained under
the dominion and beneficial control of Perez. The prayer
of the bill was for a decree recognizing the fraudulent and
simulated character of the alleged mortgages and sale,
that they be declared to be mere shadows cast upon the,
title of Perez and that the decree further direct that the
property belonging to Perez be ordered to be sold to pay
the judgment debt.
The ten persons who were.made defendants as heirs or
representatives of Maristany having been personally summoned and having failed to appear, the bill was, in December, 1906, taken for confessed against them. On the
third day of June, 1907, the counsel for the complainant
moved for an order to summons by publication Jos
Perez, Victor Ochoa and his wife. The motion for. this
order was supported by a return of the iarshal showing
that the subpoenas issued to the parties named had not
been served, because. the marshal, after diligent inquiry,
had been unable to find them in the district, and by an
affidavit of counsel declaring that affiant"is unable to
learn of the present whereabouts of said defendants, Jos6
Perez y Fernandez, Victor Ochoa y Perez and his wife,
Dolores Olavarricia, after duly inquiring, and that, therefore, personal service upon them is not practicable ."' The
order was granted, directing that the defendants named
be summoned by publication . to. appear on or before the
third day of August, 1907, the publication to be made "in
a newspaper Qf general circulation in Porto Rico, to wit,
'La Bandera Americana,' once a week for six consecutive
-weeks." On September 13. following the defondanits
named not having appeared. and proof of publipation having been made, the bill was -taken for confessed against
them. On. February 1, 1908, a formal decree *as entered

PEREZ v. FERNANDEZ.
220 U. S.

Opinion 6f the Court.

against all the defendants, holding the mortgages and
sale to be void as mere simulations, and directing their
erasure from the records. The decree recognized the right
of complainant to collect his unsatisfied judgment by a
sale of the property, and in fact directed the marshal to
proceed under an execution which was in his hands to levy
upon and sell the property.
Within two months after the entry of this decree and
before the marshal had executed it by sale of the property,
appearance was entered for Jos6 Perez, one of the defendants, and shortly after for Ochoa, and application was
made in the name of both to vacate the decree and allow
them to defend the suit, on the ground that they were entitled to do so because they had not been personally
notified. At the same time, in the same court, a Mrs.
Perfecta Blanco, alleging herself to be a resident of Spain,
filed her bill against the marshal as well as against Jos6
Fernandez and his attorneys of record, alleging that the
complainant had in July, 1906, bought from Ochoa the
real estate described in the Fernandez suit and that she
was entitled to hold the property free from liability under
the execution in the-Fernandez case. The prayer was for
an injunction pending the suit restraining the marshal
from selling the property-to pay the Fernandez judgment
and for a final decree perpetuating the injunction. The
application made by Perez and Ochoa to set aside the
decree and allow them to appear and defend, and that of
Mrs. Blanco for a preliminary injunction; were considered
by the court at one and the same time. The court'stayed,
for a brief period, the sale of the property under the execution issued in the case of Fernandez v. Perez and the enforcement of the decree in the equity cause. In a memorandum opinion the court declared that this had, been
done for the following reasons:
First, to enable Perez and Ochoa ' to make a first-class
showing establishing that neither of them had before the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910..
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

decree in the equity cause, any actual personal notice or
knowledge of its pendency," and that, they or either of
them never received any notice or knowledge of the pendency of the same through any of the other respondents
in the same mentioned or through any of their aporderados,
agents, tenants or others, either in Porto Rico or in Spain
before said time, and that they, or either of them, did not
personally receive a copy of or hear of or know of the
publication of the notice of the pendency of said suit"(the
equity cause) in La Bandera Americana . . . and
that they or either of them never in fact previous to the
entry of the decree, received any copy of said newspaper
containing such notice through the mails from Jos6 Antonio Fernandez, or. any other person, or see or hear of
such copy being received by any other person in their
vicinity in Spain." Second. In order to enabie Perez and
Ochoa to make" a first-class showing under oath that they
in truth and in fact have a meritorious defense to the bill"
and to give both Perez and Ochoa an opportunity to swear
that the "mortgage to Ochoa in 1899 was in good faith and
for a valuable consideration and that the -foreclosure of
the same was not collusive, . . ." and that Ochoa
must also state that his alleged sale to Mrs. Blanco of the
property was made in good faith and for valuable consideration as in the deed stated, and if not for that
amount then for how much, and that the said deed was
made by said Ochoa without the knowledge of the decree
in said equity cause, and "if possible he must furnish the
affid avit of Mrs. Blanco," stating that her purchase was
an honest one and how much she paid for the property.
The stay granted by the court .was extended from time
to time. There were hearings and, it may be, some evidence tending to show the existence of the facts referred to
by the court in the conditions upon which it granted the
stay and there was evidence to the contrary. Finally .the
court disposed of the matter by refusing to set aside the

PEREZ v. FERNANDEZ.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

decree in the equity. cause and hence declining to allow
Perez and Ochoa to defend and refusing to grant the application for a preliminary injunction on the bill of Mrs.
Blanco'.
From a final decree rejecting -their application to set
aside the equity decree and allow them to defend Perez
and Ochoa appeal.
The defendants'Perez and Ochoa being citizens of
Spain, the court had general jurisdiction. *Act March 2,.
1901, c. 812, § 3,31 Stat.953. Power to award relief because of the situation of the property within the court's
jurisdiction and the character ofkthe rights asserted in and
to the property even although Perez and Ochoa were nonresidents of the district and could not be found therein,
depended, as recognized by the court below and by the
parties, upon the act of March 3, 1875, c. 137, § 8, 18
Stat. 472. The right of the absent parties defendant to
have the suit reopened and the duty of the court to permit them to make defense depended upon the proviso to
the section in question. That proviso reads as follows:
"Provided, however, That any defendant or defendants not actually personally notified as above provided
may, at any time within one year after final judgment in
any suit mentioned in this section, enter his appearance in
said suit in said circuit court, and thereupon the said court
shall make an order setting aside the judgment- therein,
and permitting said defendant or defendants to plead
therein on payment by him or them of such costs as the
court shall deem just; and thereupon said suit shall be
proceeded with to final judgment according to law."
As the appearance of Perez and Ochoa was within the
year their right to have the decree set aside depended upon
whether they had been "actually personally notified" (in
the case wherein the judgment was rendered), "as above
provided." Treating the words ' actually personally notified" as signifying information conveyed to them in any

230

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

form of the existence of the suit and concluding from the
facts before it that it was established that both Perez and
Ochoa had been notified, either by information conveyed
to them by persons in Porto Rico, or by the receipt of a
copy of the newspaper containing the publication of notice,
which the court had directed to be made, the right to appear and defend was denied. But we think the construction of the statute, which the court must necessarily have
adopted in order to enable it to reach such conclusion was
a mistaken one. The right to appear and defend within
the year is given by the proviso to all defendants who have
not been "actually personally notified as above provided."
To. determine, therefore, whether a defendant who appears and asks to be allowed to defend has been actually
personally notified in such a manner as to exclude him
from the enjoyment of the right involves ascertaining not
whether he had been notified in any possible manner, but
whether he had been "actually personally notified as
above provided," that is, as required by the previous provisions of the section. Now, the previous provisions are
these; 18 Stat. 472, c. 137, March 3, 1875, § 8:
"That when in any'suit, commenced in any Circuit
Court of the United States, to enforce any legal or equita-

able lien upon, or claim to, or to remove any incumbrance or lien or cloud upon the title to real or personal
property within the district where such suit is brought,
one or more of the defendants therein shall not be an inhabitant of, or found within, the said district, or shall not
voluntarily appear thereto, it shall be lawful for the court
to make an order directing such absent defendant or defendants to appear, plead, answer, or demur, by a day certain .to be designated, which order shall be served on such
absent defendant or defendants, if practicable, wherever
found, and also upon the person or persons in possession
or charge of said property, if any there be.

"

After thus giving authority to the court to authorize the

PEREZ v. FERNANDEZ.
220 U. S.

231

Opinion of the Court.

actual personal service of a notice outside of the district,
the statute then, in cases where such personal notice is
impossible, provides for publication as follows: "Or where
such personal service upon such absent defendant or defendants is not practicable, such order shall be published
insuch manner as the court may direct, not less than once
a week for six consecutive weeks. . . ." Plainly,
therefore, the previous provision to which the proviso applies exacts an actual personal notice resulting from ,the
service on the party outside of the district of an order of
the court directed to him and requiring him to appear and
defend within a time stated, the whole conformably to the
express terms of the statute: In other words, where the
property is situated in the district where. the suit is
brought as provided in the statute the right of the court
to exert its authority is made to depend upon two forms
of notice,. which are distinct one from the other. First, an
actual notice calling upon the person to appear, and which,
in virtue of an express authority of the court, may be
served upon the party outside of. the district where the suit
is pending. Second, a notice by publication calling upon
the party to appear and defend within the statutory time,
this latter notice, however, being only necessary where the
former method cannot be employed. Considering the two
distinct subjects, the proviso of the statute ordains that
where the actual personal notice has not been made as
provided and publication has therefore been resorted to,
that within a year the party has a right to appear and the
case must be reopened to permit him to make his defense.
That is to say, the statute, without ambiguity, confers the
right to have .the case reopened wherever the jurisdiction
of the court has rested upon publication and denies such
right where the requirements of the statute as to actual
personal notice have been complied with. It follows that
in a case where the method for giving the actual notice
pointed out by the statute has not been resorted to, and,

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

on the contrary, publication of notice was the basis of the
jurisdiction of the court, an inquiry as to information conveyed by letter or by other means of knowledge of the
pendency of the suit to a defendant, for the purpose of
determining whether such defendant has a right to appear
within the year and have the case opened to enable him to
defend, is wholly immaterial. We say this because, from
the text of the statute as above elucidated, it clearly results that the right which it confers to have a case reopened is rested upon the criterion afforded by the record
upon which the judgment was obtained, and is not caused
to depend upon the uncertainty which might result from
a resort to matters extraneous to the record. As the misconstruction by the court of the statute in the respect just
stated requires a reversal, it is not essential that we should
go further. In order, however, that misconception may
be avoided we think it well to observe that in the cases to
which the statute applies the right to appear and have a
cause reopened is not dependent upon terms to be fixed
by the court, except to the extent that the statute provides for terms as to costs. This, w'e think, is clear, since,
after providing for the entry in the Circuit Court of his
appearance by a defendant embraced within the statute,
it is said: "And thereupon the said court shall make an
order setting aside the judgment therein and permitting
said defendant or defendants to plead therein on payment
by him or them of such costs as the cour,, shall ,deem
just;
"
Reversed and remanded'with directions for further proceedings in conformity With this opinion.

