OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Appellant.

220 U. S.

STANDARD PAINT COMPANY v. TRINIDAD
ASPHALT MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 106.

Argued March 16, 1911.-Decided April 10, 1911.

No sign or form of words can be appropriated as a valid trade-mark
which, from the nature of the fact conveyed. by its primary meaning, others may employ with equal right for the same purpose.
Elgin National Watch Co. v. Illinois Watch Co., 179 U. S. 665.
A trade-mark must be -distinctive in its original signification pointing
to the origin of th article or it must become so. by association.
-CanalCo. v.. Clark 13. Wall. 311.
"Rubberoid ' being a descriptive word, meaning like rubber, the word
"Ruberoid" is also descriptive, and, even though mispelled, cannot
be appropriated as a trade-mark.
While the Circuit Court cannot take cognizance of the question of unfair competition by, use of plaintiff's trade-name where diverse
citizenship does not exist, and in a case where jurisdiction is based
on trade-mark 'alone-the judgment of that court is final, if diverse
citizenship does exist and the requisite amount is in controversy, the
judgment can be reviewed in this court on the question of unfair
competition independently of the questions involving validity of the
trade-mark.
The essence of unfair competition consists in the sale of the goods of
one manufacturer or vendor for those of another, and this cannot
be predicated solely on the use of a trade-name similar to that used
by plaintiff if such trade-name is invalid as a trade-mark. To do so
would be to give the plaintiff's trade-name the full effect of a trademark notwithstanding its invalidity as such.

THE facts, which involve the validity of a trade-mark
and the jurisdiction of this court on appeal from the
Circuit Court of Appeals in a case involving validity of a
trade-mark and also unfair trade where diverse citizenship
exists, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. John F. Green, with whom Mr. FrederickN. Judson
was on the brief, for appellant:

STANDARD PAINT CO. v. TRINIDAD ASPH. CO. 447
220 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

Under the Federal statutes, in force when complainant's
trade-mark was registered, and when this action was instituted, this court, upon this appeal, has jurisdiction of
the entire case and should decide all the questions arising
upon the record, because the bill of complaint presents
a claim arising under a Federal statute, in addition to
alleging the diverse citizenship of the litigants. Henningsen v. Fidelity Company, 208 U. S. 404; Northern
Pacific Ry. Co. v. Soderberg, 188 U. S. 526; Pennsylvania
Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Austin, 168 U. S. 685; Northern
Pacific Railroad v. Amato, 144 U. S. 465; Warner v. Sear
& Hereth Co., 191 U. S. 195; ยง 6 of the Judiciary Act of
March 3, 1891; Elgin Watch Co. v. Illinois Watch Co.,
179 U. S. 665. This case is unlike that of Hutchinson v.
Loewy, 217 U. S. 457.
The jurisdiction of this court, on this appeal, extends
not merely to the determination of the question of a valid
trade-mark in the word "Ruberoid," but it extends also
to the determination of the question of whether complainant is not entitled to relief on the distinct ground of unfair
trade and competition, irrespective of any question of a
valid trade-mark registered under the Federal statues.
Therefore, even if this court should hold that complainant
has no valid trade-mark in the word "Ruberoid" it must
also determine whether complainant is not entitled to the
relief prayed for upon the ground of unfair trade. Cases
supra, and William Holder v. Aultman, Miller &, Co., 169

U. S. 81.
This case is also unlike those of Leschen Rope Co. v.
Broderick Rope Co., 201 U. S. 166, and Elgin Watch Co. v.
Illinois Watch Co., 179 U. S. 665.
The word "Ruberoid," as used by complainant to designate its roofing product, is a valid and proper trade-mark
and trade-name. Menendez v. Holt, 128 U. S. 514; Keasley
v. Brooklyn Chemical Works, 142 N. Y. 467; Re Eastman
Co., 15 R. P. C. 476, "Solio" case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Appellant.

220 U. S.

The word "Ruberoid" is suggestive merely, and not
descriptive, as those terms have been defined in the law
of trade-marks. If we assume that it is derived from the
word "rubber," as held in the majority opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals, and that with the suffix "oid"
added thereto, it means like rubber, still this derivation
and meaning would not render .it so descriptive as to be
incapable of appropriation as a trade-name, because therc
is in fact no rubber used in its composition, and its only
resemblance to rubber is in respect of its flexibility and its
being waterproof. It has not any of the most distinctive
properties of rubber, such as elasticity or resiliency. .Therefore,-it is suggestive and not descriptive, in any view which
may be taken of its origin and derivation. Cases supra and
Menendez v. Holt, 128 U. S. 514; see also "Pepto-Mangan"
Case, 131 Fed. Rep. 160; "Elastic" Book Case, 121 Fed.
Rep. 185; "'Eureka" Rubber Case, 60 Atl. Rep. 561; "Club"
Whiskey Case, 125 Fed. Rep. 782; " Uineeda" Biscuit Case,
95 Fed. Rep. 135; "Anti-Washboard" Soap Case, 26 Fed.
Rep. 576; " Sw an-Down" Complexion Powder Case, 85 Fed.
Rep. 774; "Bovril" Beef Extract Case, 2 L. R. Ch. Div.
1898, 600; "Camel's Hair" Belting Case, 13 R. P. C. 218.
Wholly irrespective of the question of complainant's
right to appropriate this word as a trade-name in the first
instance, it is entitled to the relief prayed for on the
distinct ground of unfair trade and competition. Coates v.
Merrick Thread Co., 149 U. S. 562; Florence Mfg. Co.
v. J. C. Dowd & Co., 178 Fed. Rep. 73; Elgin Watch Co.
v. Illinois Watch Case Co., 179 U. S. 665; Wolff Bros. v.
Hamilton Brown Shoe Co., 165 Fed. Rep. 413; Lawrence
Mfg. Co. v. Tennessee Mfg. Co., 138 U. S. 537; Cleveland
Stone Co. v. Wallace, 52 Fed. Rep. 431; PillsburyMills Co.
v. Eagle, 86 Fed. Rep. 608.
The evidence clearly indicates that defendant adopted
and has used the word "RubberO" only because of its
similarity to the word "Ruberoid," in order to enable it to

STANDARD PAINT CO. v TRINIDAD ASPH. CO. 449
220 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

obtain the benefit of the advertising done by complainant
in its territory and to sell its product to purchasers under
the belief on their part that they are purchasing the product of complainant. Such conduct is unfair and fraudulent and should be enjoined. Bates Mfg. Co. v. Bates
Machine Co., 172 Fed. Rep. 892; American Pencil Co. v.
Gottlieb & Sons, 181 Fed. Rep. 178.
Even if the evidence did not indicate such fraudulent
purpose on the part of the defendant in- adopting the
trade name of "RubberO," complainant would still .be
entitled to the relief prayed for, irrespective of any fraudulent intention on the part of the defendant, because there
is sufficient similarity between the words "Ruberoid"
and "RubberO" to mislead the ordinary purchaser. Saxlehner v. Eisner & Mendelsohn, 179 U. S. 19; Eagle White
Lead Co. v. Pfleugh, 180 Fed. Rep. 579; Saxlehner v. Siegel,
Cooper & Co., 179 U. S. 41; Elgin Co. v. Illinois Co., 179
U. S. 655; Reddaway v. Benthan, 9 R. P. C. 503.
The word "Ruberoid" had been so long used, and so,
exclusively appropriated, by complainant as a name for its
roofing naterial that it had come to signify to the roofing
trade the product of complainant exclusively; that is, the
word "Ruberoid" had acquired a "secondary" meaning
and therefore, on this ground also, complainant was entitled to the relief prayed for. Elgin Watch Co. v. Watch
Case Co., 179 U. S. 665; Lowe Bros. Co. v. Toledo Varnish
Co., 168 Fed. Rep. 627; Amcrican Pencil Co. v. Gottlieb,
181 Fed. Rep. 178; Gustaviano Co. v. Comerma, 180 Fed.
Rep. 920.
Mr. William B. Homer and Mr. R. M. Homer for appellee, submitted:
The decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals in this
cause was final, and this court will not take jurisdiction
thereof. Warner v. Searle & Hereth Co., 191 U. S. 195, 206;
Ryder v. Holt, 128 U. S. 525; Leschen Rope Co. v. Brodvoi.. cCxx---29

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Appellee.

220 U. S.

erick, 201 U. S. 166; Elgin Watch Co. v. Illinois Watch Co.,
179 U. S. 665; Trade-mark Cases, 100 U. S. 82; Wrisley
Co. v. Rouse Soap Co., 90 Fed. Rep. 5, Illinois Watch Co.
v. Elgin Watch Co., 94 Fed. Rep. 667, 671.
Complainant's trade-mark is descriptive of the article
upon which it is used, of its qualities, ingredients and
characteristics, and is therefore void.
This appears from the description of the trade-mark
and the material upon which it is used, as contained in
the statement filed in the Patent Office, also from the
complainant's own statement in its advertising matter, as
well as in the testimony of its own witness. Canal Co.
v. Clark, 13 Wall. 311, 323; Goodyear ManufacturingCo. v.
Goodyear Rubber Co., 128 U. S. 598; Brown Chemical Co.
v. Meyer, 31 Fed. Rep. 433, aff'd 139 U. S. 540; Raggett
v. Findlater,L. R. 17 Eq. 29; Bickmore Co. v. Manufacturing Co., 134 Fed. Rep. 833; Marvel Co. v. Pearl, 133 Fed.
Rep. 160; Scale Co. v. Scale Co., 118 Fed. Rep. 965;
Brennan v. Dry Goods Co., 108 Fed. Rep. 624; S. C., 99
Fed. Rep. 971; Washboard Co. v. Manufacturing Co., 103
Fed. Rep. 281; Bennett v. McKinley, 65 Fed. Rep. 505;
Rumford Chemical Works v. Muth, 35 Fed. Rep. 524; Fibre
Co. v. Amoskeag Co., 37 Fed. Rep. 695; Harris Drug Co.
v. Stucky, 46 Fed. Rep. 624; Jaros Co. v. Fleece Co., 65
Fed. Rep. 424; Leonard v. Wells, 53 L. J. Ch. 233; Re Roach,
10 Pat. Off. Gaz. 333; Re Goodyear Rubber Co., 11 Pat. Off.
Gaz. 1062; Ex parte Pikling, 24 Pat. Off. Gaz. 899; Scott v.
Standard Oil Co., 106 Alabama, 475; Burke v. Cassin, 45
California, 467; Larrabeev. Lewis, 67 Georgia, 561; Gilman
v. Hunnewell, 122 Massachusetts, 139; Trask v. Wooster, 28
Mo. App. 408; Van Beil v. Prescott, 82 N. Y. 630; Town v.
Stetson' 3 Daly (N. Y.), 53; Gessler v. Grieb, 80 Wisconsin
21; Alff v. Radam, 77 Texas, 630; Newcomer v. Scriven Co.,
94 C. C. A. 77; Carbolic Soap Co. v. Thompson, 25 Fed.
Rep. 625; Asbestos Mfg. Co. v. Asbestos Co., 9 Fed. Rep.
85; and see 62 N. Y. Supp. 339; Green v. Mfrs. Belt Hook

STANDARD PAINT CO. v. TRINIDAD ASPH. CO. 451
220 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

Co., 158 Fed. Rep. 640; Scriven v. North, 134 Fed. Rep.
366; Wrisley Co. v. Soap Co., 87 Fed. Rep. 589; Pratt
v. Astral Refining Co., 27 Fed. Rep. 492; Knitting Co. v
Knitting Co., 160 Fed. Rep. 1013; Florence Mfg. Co. v.
Dowd, i78 Fed. Rep. 73; Chance v. Gulden, 165 Fed. Rep.
624; Wolf v. Hamilton, 165 Fed. Rep. 413; Dry Goods Co.
v. Scriven Co., 165 Fed. Rep. 639; Searle & Hereth Co. v.
Warner, 112 Fed. Rep. 674; S. C., 191 U. S. 195; Leclanche
Battery Co. v. Western Electric-Co., 23 Fed. Rep. 276;
Caswell v. Davis, 58 N. Y. 223; Coats v. Merrick Thread
Co., 149 U. S.'562; Lawrence Mfg. Co. v. Tennessee Mfg.
Co., 138 U. S. 537; Amoskeag Mfg. Co. v. Spear, 2 Sandford,
599.
The word used as a trade-mark had, when adopted
by complainant, and long before its registration, become
a word in general use. It had been used as a trade-mark
by others, and had found a place in the dictionaries as
a word describing substances which resemble rubber,
without being rubber; that is, it was a word made up by
adding the common suffix "oid," meaning "like," to the
word rubber. Dadirrianv. Yacubian, 98 Fed. Rep. 872;
Goodyear Rubber Co. v. Rubber Co., 128 U. S. 594, 604.
There was no infringement of the complainant's trademark by the defendant. Cases supra, and Columbia Mill
Co. v. Alcorn, 150 U. S. 460, 467; Kann v. Diamond Steel
Co., 89 Feh Rep. 706; Dunlap v. Surgical Co., 151 Fed.
Rep. 223, 233; Match Co. v. Match Co., 142 Fed. Rep.
727; Marvel Co. v. Pearl, 133 Fed. Rep. 160; Elgin Watch
Co. v. Ill. Nat. Watch Co., 179 U. S. 665, 694; Howe Scale
Co. v. Wyckoff, Seamans & Benedict, 198 U. S. 118, 140;
Searle & Hereth Co. v. Warner, 112 Fed. Rep. 674; S. C.,
191 U. S. 195.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENN. delivered the opinion of the
court.
The Standard Paint Company, which we shall call the

. OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

Paint Company, a West Virginia corporation and a citizen of that State, brought this suit against the Trinidad
Asphalt Manufacturing Company, herein referred to as
the Asphalt Company, a Missouri corporation, having its
principal office in the city of St. Louis, Missouri, in the
Circuit Court of the United States in and for the Eastern
Division of the Eastern Judicial District of Missouri, to
restrain the infringement of a duly registered trade-mark
for the word "Ruberoid" to designate a certain kind of
roofing materials for covering houses and other buildings.
The Paint Company alleges in its bill that it has used the
trade-mark for more than twelve years, and has advertised
the roofing very extensively under the name "Ruberoid"
roofing, and has built up a large and valuable trade therein
in all parts of the United States and in foreign countries.
The roofing is manufactured in three different thicknesses, respectively called one, two and three-ply, and is
then made up into rolls, the strips in each roll being about
three feet in width and about seventy feet long. The rolls
are covered with paper wrappers, on which are printed,
in large type, the words "Ruberoid Roofing," and enclosed in the rolls are directions for handling and laying
the same and the name of the Paint Company as manufacturer. The roofing contains no rubber.
The Asphalt Company also makes a roofing, not, however, of the same material as that of the Paint Company,
but of the same thickness'as the latter, and cut in the similar widths and lengths, and sells it under the name of
"Rubbero " roofing.
Two contentions are made by the Paint Company:
(1) That its trade-mark is a valid one and has been infringed by the Asphalt Company. (2) That the latter has
been guilty of unfair competition. The Court of Appeals
decided adversely to both contentions. 163 Fed. Rep. 977.
Of the first contention the court said it was clear that the
Paint Company "sought to appropriate the exclusive

STANDARD PAINT CO. v. TRINIDAD ASPH. CO. 453
220,U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

use of the term rubberoid," and that its rights were to be
adjudged accordingly, and that as the latter, being a common descriptive word, could not be appropriated as a
trade-mark, the one selected by the Paint Company
could not be appropriated. The court said: "A public
right in rubberoid and a private monopoly of rubberoid
cannot coexist." The court expressed the determined
and settled rule to be "that no one can appropriate as
a trade-mark a generic name or one descriptive of an
article of trade, its qualities, ingredients or characteristics,
or any sign, word or symbol which from the nature of the
fact it is used to signify others may employ with equal
truth." For this cases were cited and many illustrations
were given which we need not. repeat. The definition
of a trade-mark has been given by this court and the
extent of its use described. It was said by the Chief Justice, speaking for the court, that "the term has been in use
from a very early date, and, generally speaking, means a
distinctive mark of autlienticity, through which the products of particular manufacturers or the vendable comnodities of particular merchants may be distinguished
from those of others. It may consist in any symbol or
in any form of words, but as its office is to point out distinctively the origin or ownership of the articles to which
it is affixed, it follows that no sign or form of words can
be appropriated as a valid trade-mark, which from the
nature of the fact conveyed by its primary meaning,
others may employ with equal truth, and with equal
right, for the same purpose." Elgin National Watch Co.
v. Illinois Watch Co., 179 U. S. 665i 673. There is no
doubt, therefore, of the rule. There is something more of
precision given to it in Canal Conipany v. Clark, 13 Wall.
311, 323, where it is said that the essence of the wrong for
the violation of a trade-mark "consists in the*sale 'of the
goods of one manufacturer or vendor as those of another;
and that it is only when this false representation is directly

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

or indirectly made that the party who appeals to a court
of equity can have relief." A trade-mark, it was hence
concluded, "must therefore. be distinctive in its original
signification, pointing to the origin of the article, or it
must have become such by association." But two qualifying rules were expressed, as follows: "No one can claim
protection for the exclusive use of a trade-mark or tradename which would practically give him a monopoly in
the sale of any goods other than those produced or made
by himself. If he could, the public would be injured
rather than protected, for competition would be destroyed.
Nor can a generic name, or a name merely descriptive of
an article of trade, of its qualities, ingredients or characteristics, be employed as a trade-mark and the exclusive
use of it be entitled to legal protection." And, citing
Amoskeag Manufacturing Company v. Spear, 2 Sandford's
Supreme Court, 599, it was further said there can be "'no
right to the exclusive use of any words, letters, figures or
symbols which have no relation to the origin or ownership
of the goods, but are only meant to indicate their names
or qualities.'"
Does the trade-mark of the Paint Company come within
the broad rule or within the qualifying ones? In other
words, does it have relation to the origin or ownership of
the roofing or is it merely descriptive of the roofing? It
is conceded that there is no rubber used in the preparation of the roofing. It is put forth as being in the " Nature
of Soft, Flexible Rubber." It is described in the certificate of registration as follows: "The class of merchandise
to which this trade-mark is appropriated is solid substance
in the nature of soft, flexible rubber in the form of flexible
roofing, flooring, siding, sheathing, etc., and the particular class of goods upon which the said trade-mark is used
is solid substance in the nature of flexible rubber." Arid
it is said that the "trade-mark consists in the arbitrary
word 'Ruberoid.'" Rubberoid is defined in the Century

STANDARD PAINT CO. v. TRINIDAD ASPH. CO. 455
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Dictionary as a trade name for an imitation of hard rubber.
It is a compound of the word "rubber" and the suffix
"oid," and "oid" is defined in the same dictionary as
meaning "having the form or resemblance of the thing
indicated, 'like,' as in anthropoid, like man; crystalloid,
like crystal; hydroid,, like water, etc. It is much used as
an English formative, chiefly in scientific words." Rubberoid, therefore, is a descriptive word, meaning like rubber, but the Paint Company insists "Ruberoid" is suggestive merely, not descriptive, "because there is in fact
no rubber used in its composition, and its only resemblance
to rubber is in respect to its flexibility and its being waterproof." But this contentioft makes likeness and resemblance the same as identity. If the roofing of the Paint
Company was identical with rubber it would be rubber
and not as it is represented to be, as we have seen, "in the
nature of soft, flexible rubber." It may rightly be called
rubberoid, and so may be roofing made by, others'than
the Paint Company having the same rubber-like qualities, flexibility and not pervious to water. The word,
therefore, is descriptive, not indicative of the origin or
the ownership of the goods; and, being of that quality,
we cannot admit. that it loses such quality and becomes
arbitrary by being misspelled. Bad orthography has not
yet become so rare or so easily detected as to make a word
the arbitrary sign of something else than its conventional
meaning, as different, to bring the example to the present
case, as the character of an article is from its origin or
ownership.
We content ourselves with applying the principle of
the cases which we have cited and will not review the many
cases in which it has been considered determinative or
otherwise. These cases are collected in the opinion of
the Circuit Court of Appeals and need not be repeated.
The second contention 'of the Paint Company is that
the Asphalt Company has been guilty of unfair trade and

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

competiton. The latter company urges that we are
without jurisdiction to consider the contention and cites
Leschen Rope Co. v. Broderick, 201 U. S. 166, in which a
claim to a trade-mark for a distinctively colored streak
applied to or woven in a wire rope was declared invalid.
The bill, in addition to the infringement of the trade-mark,
alleged unfair competition. The defendant in the case demurred on the ground that the trade-mark set up in the
bill was not a lawful and valid trade-mark. The demurrer
was sustained and the bill dismissed and the decree of the
Circuit Court was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The case was appealed to this court and we affirmed the
decree holding that the trade-mark was invalid. Excluding a right to take jurisdiction because the bill set forth
unfair competition, we said: "Nor can we assume jurisdiction of this case as one wherein the defendant had made
use of plaintiff's device for the purpose of defrauding the
plaintiff and palming off its goods upon tie public as of
the plaintiff's manufacture. Our jurisdiction depends
solely upon the question whether pl-aintiff has a registered
trade-mark valid under the act of Congress.
The parties in that case were citizens of the same State,
and the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court depended entirely
upon the trade-mark statute. In the case at bar there
is diversity of citizenship as a ground of jurisdiction as
well as the assertion of a valid trade-mark. It is therefore
contended that Leschen Rope Co. v. Broderick is not applicable, because, as there was no valid trade-mark under
the Federal statute, it necessarily followed that the Circuit
Court was wholly without jurisdiction to try the case in
the first instance, the parties being citizens of the same
State; and, as the Circuit Court was without jurisdiction
to try the issue of unfair trade, the Circuit Court of Appeals was also without jurisdiction, and that this court,
on appeal, could not decide that issue. In the case at
bar, however, it is urged there is a diversity of citizenship

STANDARD PAINT CO. v. TRINIDAD ASPH. CO. 457
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

as well as the assertion of a right under the Federal statute,
and that the Circuit Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals both had jurisdiction on that ground as well as on
the other, and the case, therefore, it is contended, falls
under Henningsen v. United States Fidelity and Guaranty
Co., 208 U. S. 404; Northern Pac. Ry. Co. v. Soderberg,
188 U. S. 526; Penn. Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Austin, 168
U. S. 685; Northern Pac. Rd. Co. v. Amato, 144 U. S. 465;
Warner v. Searle & Hereth Co., 191 U. S. 195; Elgin Watch
Co. v. Illinois Watch Co., 179 U. S. 665.
Passing the last two cases for the moment, we may say
of the others that while there was diversity of citizenship,
and that would have given jurisdiction to the Circuit
Court independently of any Federal question, statutory
or constitutional, a consideration of a statute or the Constitution of the United States entered into the merits.
Such is not the condition in the case at bar as to the issue
of unfair trade. The asserted trade-mark as such is not
an element. The issue is made independently of it, and
under the assumption of its invalidity. If the trade-mark
were valid, the issue of unfair trade would be unnecessary
to decide. Such an issue between citizens of different
States, even if there were no technical trade-mark, a Circuit Court would have jurisdiction to try, and the Circuit
Court of Appeals would have jurisdiction to review, but
the judgment of the latter court would be final.
Warner v. Searle & Hereth Co. and Elgin Watch Co. v.
Illinois Watch Co. require special notice. In the latter
case there was not diversity of citizenship, but there was
the assertion of a trade-mark in the word "Elgin." The
Circuit Court sustained it; the Circuit Court of Appeals
held it invalid and reversed the decree of the Circuit Court
and ordered a dismissal of the bill. This court affirmed
the action of the Circuit Court of Appeals. It was held
that the word was geographically descriptive and not subject to be registered as a trade-mark. It was contended,

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

however, that the word had acquired a secondary signification, and should not therefore be considered as merely
a geographical name. It was conceded, in answer to the
contention, that words could acquire a secondary signification, and their use in that sense be protected. But
the concession and the discussion were for no other purpose
than to bring out clearly, in opposition to the contention
based on the secondary signification of a word, that it
could be, though a generic and descriptive name, "lawfully
withdrawn from common use" by being registered as a
trade-mark. And the court was careful to observe that
the question considered was not" whether the record made
out a case of false representation or perfidious dealing, or
unfair competition, but whether appellant had the exclusive right to use the word 'Elgin' as against all of the
world." The question was asked, "Was it a lawful registered trade-mark?" If so, the answer was, "Then the
Circuit Court had jurisdiction, under the statute, to award
relief for infringement; but if it were not a lawful registered trade-mark, then the Circuit Court of Appeals correctly held that jurisdiction could not be maintained."
The case may be said to be only of negative value. Unfair
trade, we have seen, was referred to, and it was discussed
also by the Circuit Court of Appeals, but it put it aside as
an element of decision, because the court was, as it said,
"without jurisdiction to grant relief," as the right of the
Elgin Watch Company arose under the act of Congress,
and was limited by the act to recovery of damages for the
wrongful use of a trade-mark, or to a remedy according to
the course of equity, "'to enjoin the wrongful use of said
trade-mark used in foreign commerce or commerce with
the Indian tribes.'" The remedy in equity for fraud, it
was said, existed before the statute and was not given by it,
and that the Federal court would have no jurisdiction of it
except between citizens of different States. 94 Fed. Rep.
665, 671.

STANDARD PAINT CO. v. TRINIDAD ASPH. CO. 459
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Warner v. Searle & Hereth Company was a suit between
citizens of different States. The bill alleged the infringement of a trade-mark for the word "Pancreopepsine."
Unfair competition was also alleged. The Circuit Court
found that there was no proof of the latter but held that
the complainant had a valid trade-mark and enjoined the
defendant from its use. The Circuit Court of Appeals concurred in the finding as to unfair competition, but-decided
against the validity of the trade-mark and reversed the
decree of the Circuit Court and ordered the bill to be dismissed. We affirmed the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals and said that the courts of the United States cannot
take cognizance of an action on the case or a suit in equity
between citizens of the same State, "'unless the trade-mark
in controversy is used on goods intended to be transported
to a foreign country, or in lawful commercial intercourse
with an Indian tribe."' But we also said that "where, diverse citizenship exists, and the statutory amount is in controversy, the courts of the United States have jurisdiction,
but where those conditions do not exist, jurisdiction can
only be maintained where there is interference with commerce with foreign nations or Indian -tribes,
.
It was held, besides, that as diverse citizenship existed the
Circuit Court had jurisdiction, and in answer to the contention that as jurisdiction depended entirely on diversity
of citizenship the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
was final, this was said: "We think, however, that as infringement of a trade-mark registered under the act was.
charged, the averments of the bill, though quite defective,.
were sufficient to invoke the jurisdiction also on the-ground
that the case arose under the law of the United States,
and will not, therefore, dismiss the bill."
No notice was given to the charge of unfair competition,
and yet, if the contention of the Paint Company in the
case at bar be sound, we should have decided that question
because it was decided in the courts below, for, we have
.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

seen, it is the contention of the Paint Company in this
case that the lower courts having jurisdiction to decide the
question of unfair competition, this court also has jurisdiction. But, as we have seen in Warner v. Searle &
Hereth Co., we did not pass on the question of unfair competition, though the same conditions of jurisdiction existed
which exist in this case. Warner v. Searle & Hereth Co.
has in it, therefore, an element of uncertainty, but the
statute must be considered. It makes the judgment of
the Circuit Court of Appeals "final in all cases in which
the jurisdiction [the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court is
meant] is dependent entirely upon the opposite parties to
the suit or controversy, being aliens and citizens of the
United States or citizens of different States; also. in all
cases arising under the patent laws, under the revenue
laws, and under criminal laws, and in admiralty laws."
In all other cases there is a right of review by this cQurt if
there is the statutory amount involved. The case at bar
is within the letter of the statute. The opposite parties
to the suit are citizens of different States, and while this
diversity of citizenship was not necessary to give. the Circuit Court jurisdiction of the case in so far as it involved
the validity of the trade-mark, it was necessary to give the
court jurisdiction of the issue of unfair competition. If
the latter had stood alone its decision would have been
final in the Court of Appeals, and this court would have
had no jurisdiction to review its decision, and there is
some objection on principle, notwithstanding the union
of the charge of unfair competition with the claim of a
trade-mark, to our taking jurisdiction, but such, we think,
is the effect of the statute. Macfadden v. United States,
213 U. S. 288; Spreckels Sugar Refining Co. v. MeClain,
192 U. S. 397.
We come, therefore, to a consideration of the question
of unfair competition. The Circuit Court of Appeals decided the question against the Paint Company. The views

STANDARD PAINT CO. v. TRINIDAD ASPH. CO. 461
220 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the Circuit Court may be open to dispute. The majority of the Court of Appeals was of opinion that, aside from
the use of the word "rubbero," there was no imitation by
the Asphalt Company of the Paint Company's roofing,
indeed, that the "arrangement, color, design or general appearance of the wrappers and markings on the packages"
were in such "marked contrast as to repel all suggestion
of design on the part of the former to misrepresent the
origin or ownership of its product." The Circuit Court
expressed itself as follows: "It is true that there is no imitation in the arrangement, color or general appearance of
the labels, as such, Aside from the similarity of the names,
but I think the use of names so similar on rolls of similar
size and shape both containing roofing material is calculated, whether intentionally or unintentionally, to confuse
and deceive the public." Circuit Judge Sanborn, dissenting from the opinion and judgment of the Court of Appeals,
was of the opinion that the Circuit Court found that the
Asphalt Company was guilty of unfair competition; and
he concurred in the finding, thus giving the weight of his
judgment to its support.
We think the evidence supports the conclusion of the
Circuit Court of Appeals. The only imitation by the
Asphalt Company of the roofing of the Paint Company is
that which exists in the use of the word "rubbero," and
this only by its asserted resemblance to the word "ruberoid." To preclude its use because of such resemblance
would be to give to the word "ruberoid" the full effect
of a trade-mark, while denying its validity as such. It
is trhe that the marzufacturer of particular goods is entitled
to protection of the reputation they have acquired against
unfair dealing, whether there be a technical trade-mark
or not, but the essence of such a wrong consists in the
sale of the goods of one manufacturer or vendor for those
of another. Elgin National Watch Co. v. Illinois: Watch
Co., supra. Such a wrong is not established against the,

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Counsel for Parties.

220 U. S.

Asphalt Company. It does not use the word "rubbero"
in such a way as to amount to a fraud on the public.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES

concurs in the result.

SHAWNEE SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE COMPANY v. STEARNS, AS MAYOR OF THE CITY
OF SHAWNEE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR-THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 109.

Submitted March 14, 1911.-Decided April 10, 1911.

A simple breach of a contract by a municipality does not amount to an
act impairing the obligation of the contract.
A statute authorizing the issuing of bonds for the purpose of constructing a public utility cannot impair the obligation of a contract
made subsequent to the enactment of such statute.
The breach of a contract is neither confiscation of property nor the
taking of property without due process of law. St. Paul Gas Light
Co. v. St. Paul, 181 U. S. 145.
Where diversity of citizenship does not exist and plaintiff's claim is
based on a simple breach of contract by a m unicipality, the case is
not one arising under the contract or due process clause of the
Constitution, and the Circuit Court has not jurisdiction.
Where the Circuit Court dismisses a bill on the merits, but it appears
that jurisdiction did not exist, the decree must be reversed and the
cause remanded with instructions to dismiss for want of jurisdiction. McGilvra v. Ross, 215 U. S. 70.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court of cases arising under the Constitution and laws

of the United States, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. B. B. Blakeney and Mr. James H. Maxey for appellant.

