HILLS & CO. v. HOOVER:
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

HILLS & COMPANY, LIMITED, v. HOOVER.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE THIRD ,CIRCUIT.

No. 101.

Argued March 15, 16, 191.-Decided April 3, 1911.

The copyright statutes of the United States afford all the relief to
which a party is entitled, and no action outside of those provided
therein will lie. Globe.Newspaper Co. v. Walker, 210 U. S. 356.
Section 914, Rev. Stat., was not intended to require the adoption of
the state practice where it would be inconsistent with the terms or
defeat the purposes of the legislation of Congress, and state statutes
which defeat or encumber the administration of the law under Federal statutes are not required to be followed in the Federal courts.
Mexican Central R. R. Co. v. Pinkney, 149 U. S.207.
Questions of the character prepounded in this case must be answered
in reference to the actual case. Columbus Watch- Co. v. Robbins,
148 U. S.266.
In a Circuit Court of the United States within the State of Pennsylvania the oWner of a copyright for an engraving is restricted to a
single action to find and seize the copies alleged to infringe and likewise to recover the money penalty therefor.
In a Circuit Court of the United States within the State of Pennsylvania the institution by the owner of a copyright for engravings of
an action for replevin for recovery of the copies alleged to infringe,
not prosecuted to judgment, precludes such copyright owner from
subsequently bringing and maintaining an action of assumpsit to
recover the pecuniary penalty for the copies found and.seized under
the writ of replevin, and which were delivered to plaintiff.
THE facts, which involve the construction of the Federal copyright statutes, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. BennoLoewy and Mr. Hector T. Fenton, for plaintiff inerror.
Mr. William A. Carr for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case comes here upon certificate from the Circuit

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

Court of Appeals for the Third. Circuit. Hills & Company, Linited, a corporation of Great Britain, brought an
action of assumpsit for its own use and that of the United
States against Joseph and Henry L. Hoover, citizens of
Pennsylvania, partners as Joseph Hoover & Son, to re-

cover under § 4965, ch. 3, p. 959 of the Revised Statutes
of the United States for a forfeiture of money to the
amount of $4,763 alleged to be due the plaintiff as the
owner of the copyright of certain engravings, 4,763 of
which were found in the defendant's possession, which,
at tile statutory sum of one dollar each, make up the
amount sued for.

In the Circuit Court a verdict for that amount was
rendered for the plaintiff, subject to the reserved question
whether there was any evidence to go to the jury in support of the plaintiff's claim. Upon this question the Circuit Court subsequen'tly entered judgment in favor of the
defendant, and the plaintiff took the case to the Circuit
Court of Appeals.
The certificate states the following facts:
"The plaiitiff owned copyrights of certain engravings
which the defendants wrongfully reproduced, sold some
of the reproduced copies and on December 10, 1902, still
had a number thereof remaining in their possession when
the plaintiff's agent went to the defendants' printing establishment -with a deputy marshal who was serving a
writ of replevin the plaintiff had had issued in the Circuit
Court against the defendants for infringing copies. The
agent there found in the possession of the defendants
forty-seven hundred and sixty-three infringing copies.
These the deputy marshal then and there took and delivered to the plaintiff's agent who still retains them.
Subsequently, on June 18, 1903, the plaintiff brought
the present action of assumpsit against the defendant
infringers to recover the one dollar forfeit to the plaintiff
for . each of the forty-seven hundred and sixty-three in-

HILLS & CO. v. HOOVER.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

fringing sheets of the copyrighted engravings which on
December 10, 1902, its agent had found in and taken from
the defendants' possession. To this action the defendants
appeared and pleaded non assumpsit and in it a verdict
was had for the plaintiff as above noted. The action of
replevin was no further proceeded in."
The questions propounded by the Circuit Court of
Appeals under the act of March 3, 1891, are as follows:
"1. In a Circuit Court of the United States within
the State of Pennsylvania is the owner of a copyright for
engravings restricted to a single action to find and seize
the copies alleged to infringe and likewise to recover the
money penalty therefor?
"2. In a Circuit Court of the United States within
the State of Pennsylvania does the institution by the
owner of a copyright for engravings of an action of replevin for recovery of the copies alleged to infringe, not
prosecuted to judgment, preclude such copyright owner
from subsequently bringing and maintaining an action
of assumpsit to recover the pecuniary penalty for the
copies found and seized Under the writ of replevin?"
As a question of this character must be answered in
reference to the actual case (Columbus Watch Co. v.
Robbins, 148 U. S. 266), the second question must be
answered in view of the facts stated, having in mind
that the copies had been seized in the replevin suit and
delivered to the plaintiff's agent.
An answer to these questions requires the construction
of § 4965 of the Revised Statutes of the United States.
That section declares that any person offending against
its provisions "shall forfeit to the proprietor all the plates
on which the.same shall be copied and 'every sheet thereof,
either copied or printed, and shalt further forfeit one
dollar for every sheet of the same found in his possession, either printing, printed, copied, published, imported
or exposed for sale,

one-half thereof to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

proprietor and the other half to the use of the United
States."
This section has been, in varying forms, a part of the
copyright law of the United States for many years prior
to the enactment, since this suit, of the present law of
July, 1909, which has superseded former statutes upon the
subject. of copyright. It has been the subject of frequent
and not always harmonious construction in the Federal
courts. See Bolles v. Outing Company, 175 U. S.262, 267.
It was before this court in the case of Thornton v.
Schreiber, 124 U. S. 612. In that case an action was
brought by Schreiber against Thornton to recover the
penalties for the unlawful reproduction of a-certain copyrighted photograph. The infringing copies were found
in the store of Sharpless & Sons in Philadelphia, where
they were being used as-labels on parcels of goods. Thornton was a manager in the employ of Sharpless & Sons,
and had ordered 1,500 of the photographs, which were delivered to the firm, who paid for them. It was held that
Thornton was not liable as he had not the possession
of the infringing prints within the meaning of the act,,
and that the proper parties defendant, against whom
an action of replevin might have been sustained, was the
firm of Sharpless & Sons, and not their agent. All ,that
was necessary for the decision of the case was the holding
that the prints were not found in the possession of Thornton within the meaning of the act. In the course of the
opinion Mr. Justice Miller said:
"Counsel for defendants in error, Schreiber & Sons,
insist that the words 'found in his possession'. are to be
construed as referring to thefinding of the jury; that the
expression means simply that where the sheets are ascer..
tained by the finding of the jury to hate been at any. time
in the possession of the person who committed the wrongful act, such person shall forfeit one dollar for each sheet
so ascertained to have been in his possession. We, how-

HILLS & CO. v. HOOVER.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ever, think that the word 'found' means that there must
be a time before the cause of action accrues at which they
are found in the possession of the defendant."
The question whether more than one suit could be
maintained under '§ 4965, or whether it was necessary
to find the infringing sheets by means of some action
or process before beginning an action for the penalty,
was not before the court in that case and was in no way
decided. The expression of Mr. Justice Miller, that the
word "found" meant that there must be a time before
the cause of action accrues at which the infringing matter
is found in the possession of the defendant, has been
differently interpreted in the 'courts of the United States.
In Falk v. Curtis Publishing Company, 107 Fed. Rep.
126, Thornton v. Schreiber was interpreted to mean that
before the action for the penalty would lie there must be
a finding of articles in the possession of the defendant
by nmans of a proceeding instituted for the express purpose of seizure, and that consequently an action of assumpsit, brought prior to the seizure, as an independent proceeding was premature and could not be maintained.
In Bolles v. The Outing Company, 77 Fed. Rep. 966, the
case of Thornton v. Schreiber was held to mean only that
the infringing articles must be found in the possession
of the defendant before the penalty could be imposed,
and that the section contemplated a single suit to enforce
both remedies-the money recovery and the forfeiture
of the offending sheets, etc. That case was a' suit by
Bolles against The Outing Company, seeking to recover
not only the penalty for one copy of Outing which was
found in the defendant's possession, but also for all the
copies which had- been within the defendant's possession
within any time two years previous to the commencement of the'suit. The Circuit Court limited the recovery to one dollar as penalty for the copy purchased by
an agent of the Plaintiff from the company, and the court

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

refused to permit recovery for the copies printed and delivered to The Outing Company within two years of the
commencement of the suit, but not found in the defendant's possession. The case came here, and the judgment
of the Circuit Court of Appeals was affirmed. Bolles
v. Outing Co., 175 U. S. 262, supra. In that case this
court approved the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals of the Second Circuit, and quoted with approval
the following language from that court: "The remedy
by forfeiture and condemnation is only appropriate in a
case where the property can be seized upon process, and
where, as here, the forfeiture declared is against property
of the 'offender' is only appropriate when it can be seized
in his hands." In the same case Mr. Justice Brown,
speaking for this court, said:
"No remedy is provided by the act, although by § 4970
a bill in equity will lie for an injunction, but the provision
for the forfeiture of the plates and ofthe copies seems to
contemplate an action in the nature of replevin for their
seizure, and, in addition to the confiscation of the copies,
for a recovery, of one dollar for every copy so seized or
found in the possession of the defendant."
With a difference of opinion, as we have stated, in two
Circuit Courts of Appeal as to the proper construction
of the act there came before this court two cases, American
Tobacco Company v. Werckmeister, 207 U. S. 284, and
Werckmeister v. American Tobacco Company, 207 U. S.375.
In the first of the cases Werckmeister, the owner of a
copyrighted painting, recovered in an action in the nature
of replevin 1,196 sheets containing a copy of the copyrighted picture belonging to him. In the second case
the action was brought to recover $10 each as penalty
for the sheets seized in the former suit. In that case
the question was distinctly made whether, under § 4965
of the ReviSed Statutes, two actions could be brought,.
one for the seizure of the sheets forfeited under the act

HILLS & CO. v. HOOVER.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and another for the penalty of one dollar for every sheet
found in the defendant's possession. Upon consideration
this court held that the statute contemplated but a single
action, in which the offender should be brought into
court, the plates and sheets seized and adjudicated to the
owner of the copyright, and the penalty, provided for by
the statute, recovered. It was held that only a single
action was within the scope of the statute, and that to
construe it so as to require two actions would be to extend
it beyond its terms.
The second Werckmeister case was decided while the
case now before us was pending in the Circuit: Court of
Appeals, and shortly before argument in that court.' *The
Circuit Court of Appeals thereupon certified to this court
the two questions, as hereiiabefore stated. In the Werckmeisler Case the matter was fully considered, and we find
no occasion to depart from the construction which was
given the statute in that case.
It is to be noted that both questions propounded by the
Circuit Court of Appeals relate to actions in the Circuit
Courts of the United States within the State of Pennsylvania, and it is insisted by the counsel for Hills & Company
that in the State of Pennsylvania there is no form of action
in whicl] the double remedy can be enforced, and that
the effecl of the decision in the Werckmeister Case should
be limited( to those States wherein the practice permits
the remedies given to the copyright proprietor to be en-.
forced in one action. This argument proceeds upon the
theory that the state, practice can alone be resorted to for
remedies in the Federal courts under the copyright law
of the United States.
Section 914, Revised Statutes, provides: "The practice,
pleadings; and forms and modes of proceeding in .civil.
causes, other' than equity and admiralty causes, in the
Circuit and District Courts, shall conform, as near as
may be,. to the practice, pleadings, and forms and modes

336

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

of proceeding existing at the time in like causes in the
courts of record of the State within which such Circuit
or District Courts are held, any rule of court to the contrary notwithstanding."
This section is intended to secure on the law side of the
Federal courts the practice which prevails in like causes
in courts of the States. Its requirement is that such proceeding shall conform "as near as may be" to that prevailing in the state courts "in like cases." This section
was not intended to require the adoption of the state
practice where it would be inconsistent with the terms
or defeat the purposes of the legislation of Congress.
Luxton v. North River Bridge Co., 147 U. S. 337, 338;
Chappell v. United States, 160 U. S.499, 512.
In fact, the language of the statute is itself an indication
that the state practice cannot be at all times and under
all circumstances complied with. It is enough if the Federal courts in adjudicating the rights of parties comply
with the state practice "as near as may be." State statutes which defeat or encumber the administration of the
law underFederal statutes are not required to be followed
in the Federal courts. Mexican Cen. R. R. Co. v. Pinkney, 149 U. S.207.
. It follows that where the state statute, or practice,
is not adequate to afford the relief which Congress has
provided in a given statute, resort must be had- to the
power of the Federal court to adapt its practice and issue,
its writs and administer its remedies so as to enforce the
Federal law.
We think this power is not wanting in the present case.
Section 716, Rev. Stat., confers broad powers upon the
courts of the United States. That section provides:
"The Supreme Court and the Circuit and District
Courts shall' have power to issue writs of scire facias.
They shall also have power to issue all writs not specifically provided for by statute, which may be necessary

HILLS & CO. v. HOOVER.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

for the exercise of their respective jurisdictions, and agreeable to the usages and principles of law."
At an early day it was held that under this section the
courts of the United States are not restricted to the kind
of processes used in the state courts, or bound to conform
themselves thereto in all respects, but have the authority
to alter the process. in such manner as may be deemed,
expedient, and to so adapt it that its effect and operation
may be effectual. U. S.Bank v. Halstead, 10 Wheat. 51.
There is no difficulty in issuing a writ in the nature of a
writ of replevin in an action such as is authorized by
§ 4965, requiring the marshal to seize the alleged forfeited
plates and copies, and asking in the same suit to recover
the penalty for those found in'the defendant's possession.
The alleged infringing matter will be brought into court
to abide its order and judgment, and at the same time,
in the same action, a recovery may be had for the penalty
awarded..
This was the view of the statute suggested in Bolle's
v. Outing Co., supra. It was also asserted in Americag
Tobacco Co. v. Werckmeister, supra, affirmed in, this court
in Werckmeister v,American Tobacco Company, 207 U. S.
375, supra.
It is true that in the first Werckmeister case the plaintiff
recovered a judgment for the forfeiture of the infringing
sheets, but the question made and decided in the second
case involved the construction of the statute upon the
question whether one or two actions was authorized; and
it was held that the statute provided for one action in
which all the relief authorized by the statute could be
obtained.
The copyright statutes of the United States afford all
the relief to whidh a party is entitled, and no action outside "of those provided therein will lie. Globe Newspaper
Co. v. Walker, 210 U. S. 356. It therefore follows that
Hills & Company having brought an action for thd reVOL. ccxx-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

220 U. S.

covery of the infringing matter, and having conducted
it so far as to have the goods seized and turned over to
them, can have no other remedy under the statute which
provides for all relief in a single action.
It is stated in the certificate that the replevin suit
originally begun is still pending. Such being the fact
we do not wish to intimate, by anything herein decided,
that the authority to amend pleadings and process in
the Federal courbs may not justify an amendment in
that case so as to embrace the entire relief which could
have been obtained in a single action under § 4965 of the
Revised Statutes of the United States, as we have stated.
That question will arise if an application shall be made
to the Circuit Court of the United States in that view.
Holding that the remedy under the copyright statute
embraces but one action, as was held in the Wcrckmeistcr
Case, and that the local statutes of the State as to replevin, or other remedies, will not prevent the Federal
court from framing its process and writs, so as to give
full relief in one action, we answer both of the questions
certified in the affirmative.
It is So ordered.

GAVIERES v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
No. 102.

Submitted March 13, 1911.-Decided April 3, 1911.

Protection against double jeopardy was by § 5 of the act of July 1,
1902, c. 1369, 32 Stat. 691, carried to the Philippine Islands in the
sense and in the meaning which it had obtained undcr the Constitution and laws of the United States. Kepner v. United States, 195
U. S.100.
The protection intended and specifically given is against second jeopardy for the same offense, and where separate offenses arise from
the same transaction the protection does not apply.

