OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

232 U. S.

possession of the asserted property rights be assumed, it
must follow that the power to remove, given by the statute, must be sustained. Considering the context of the
act, the limitation which it imposes upon the members of
the tribe and the tribe itself to contract and the large
administrative supervision over such subjects which the
statute confers upon the Secretary, it is not disputable
that the right to remove for "good cause to be by him
determined" which the statute gives to the Secretary is
but an appropriate means provided for the accomplishment of the duties cast upon him with reference to the
subject-matters stated. Under these circumstances the
proposition could not be maintained without holding
that although the duty existed to protect by appropriate
legislation the tribe and its members, suich legislation if
enacted, would be repugnant to the Constitution.
Writ denied.

YOUNG, ADMINISTRATRIX, v. CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY OF NEW JERSEY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 389. Argued February 26, 1914.-Decided March 9, 1914.
The Circuit Court of Appeals having, pursuant to the state court
practice in Pennsylvania, reversed a judgment in favor of the plaintiff and remanded to the trial court with instructions, not for new
trial, but for judgment for defendant, non obstante veredicto, this
court affirms the judgment of reversal so far as the case is remanded
to the trial court, but reverses it as to the direction to enter judgment for defendant, and remands the case to the trial court for a new
trial conformably with the provisions of the Seventh Amendment.
Slocum v. New York Life InsuranceCo., 228 U. S. 364.
200 Fed. Rep. 359, modified and affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

YOUNG v. CENTRAL R. R. OF N. J.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Ulysses S. Koons, with whom Mr. Vedantus B.
Edwards was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Arthur G. Dickso4, with whom Mr. Arthur W.
Rinke was on the brief, for defendant in error.
Memorandum opinion by direction of the court.

By

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE.

As administratrix of the estate of her deceased husband,
the plaintiff in error sued to recover for the loss occasioned
by his death alleged to have resulted from the negligence
of the defendant railroad company. Over the objection
of the defendant the case was submitted by the trial
court to the jury and from the judgment entered on the
verdict rendered against the railroad company, error
was by the company prosecuted from the Circuit Court of
Appeals. On the hearing that court concluding that the
evidence did not justify the submission of the case to the
jury, reversed the judgment and in passing upon a motion
made by the railroad company in the trial court, pursuant
to the Pennsylvania practice for judgment in its favor
non obstante veredicto it was held that the motion was well
taken and the case was remanded to the trial court not
for a new trial, but with directions to enter a judgment
for the defendant. (200 Fed. Rep. 359.) As the case as
made by the pleadings depended not merely upon diverse
citizenship, but was expressly based on the Employers'
Liability Act, error was prosecuted from this court.
We shall not undertake to analyze the evidence or
review the grounds which led the court below to conclude
that error was committed in submitting the case to the
jury, because we think it is adequate to say that after a
careful examination of the record we see no reason for
holding that the court below erred in so deciding. As
regards however, the ruling on the motion for judgment

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

232 U. S.

non obstante veredicto, it is apparent in view of the recent
decision in Slocum v. Insurance Company, 228 U. S. 364,
that error was committed. It follows that our duty is to
affirm and modify; that is, to affirm the judgment of
reversal and to modify by reversing so much of the action
of the court below as directed the entry of a judgment in
favor of the defendant. Conformably to this conclusion
it is ordered that the judgment of reversal be, and the
same is hereby affirmed, and that the direction for entry
of judgment in favor of defendant be reversed and the
case is remanded to the trial court with directions to set
aside its judgment and grant a new trial.
Affirmed and modified.

PRIEST v. TRUSTEES OF THE TOWN OF LAS
VEGAS, NEW MEXICO.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
NEW MEXICO.
No. 218.

Submitted January 28, 1914.-Decided March 9, 1914.

A judgment in a suit to quiet title to real property in New Mexico is
not binding on a person or corporation or trustees having an interest
in the premises who could be definitely located and served with
process and who were not joined by name. The court did not acquire
jurisdiction over them.
The statutes of New Mexico which, in 1894, permitted unknown
claimants to be joined as defendants as such and to be served by
publication, did not relate to parties who could be definitely located
and joined or who were confirmees of the grant including the property under the act of June 21, 1860.
In affirming a judgment, an appellate court is not confined to the
grounds on which the court below based the judgment.
The full faith and credit clause and statutes enacted thereunder do
not apply to judgments rendered by a court having no jurisdiction

