CALAF v. CALAF.
232 U. S.

Counsel for Appellants.

If the action included a right under ยง 9, the recovery was
for her benefit exclusively as the widow of the decedent.
The language of the section is that the right of action given
to the employ6 survives to his personal representatives for
the benefit of his parents only when fhere is no widow.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistentwith this opinion.

CALAF Y FUGURUL v. CALAF Y RIVERA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF PORTO RICO.
No. 199. Argued January 26, 1914.-Decided February 24, 1914.
While under the laws of Toro parol acts, although not amounting to a
solemn recognition, may have entitled a natural child to sue in Porto
Rico for a share of the parent's inheritance and prove the acts in the
same suit, the existing Code requires a preliminary proceeding to
prove those, acts and to declare their effect, and limits the time within
which such proceeding can be brought. Cordova v. Folgueras, 227
U. S. 375.
A judgment or decree bars all grounds for the relief sought and, as
res judicata, it is a bar to a subsequent suit between the same
parties the object of which is to reach the same result by different
means.
Whether the judgment in a former suit between the same parties was
or was not final is a question of local practice upon which this court
follows the local court unless strong reasons are produced against it.
17 Porto Rico, 185, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the laws
of Porto Rico relating to the recognition as heirs of natural
children, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Manuel Rodriguez Serra, with whom Mr. Charles
Hartzell was on the brief, for appellants.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

Mr. Paul Fuller, with whom Mr. Frederic R. Coudert
was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit brought by the appellants against the
testamentary heir of Salvador Calaf, seeking to have the
institution of the defendant as heir declared void and the
intestate succession of Salvador Calaf opened. The appellants alleged that four of them were natural children
and the fifth the natural grandson of Ramon Calaf, and
that they were his ab-intestate heirs; that Ramon was
born on August 31, 1840 and died on October 9, 1895,
his parents being Salvador Calaf and Maria Antonia
Martinez, who, in short, had legal capacity to marry,
and that Salvador recognized Ramon as his natural son;
that Salvador died on February 11, 1903, leaving a will
by which the defendant, a natural son, was instituted
universal heir and the plaintiffs were ignored. The answer
denied most of the allegations of the complaint, and alleged that Maria Martinez was a negro slave; that the
plaintiff had brought a previous suit against the defendant,
claiming one-half of the said Salvador's estate as his
successor, which was dismissed on demurrer without
leave to amend; and that the cause of action was prescribed by Articles 199 and 1840 of the Civil Code in force,
and 1964, 1939 and 137 of the original Civil Code. The
Supreme Court of Porto Rico held that in a suit to nullify
the institution of an heir the recognition of Ramon could
be proved only by a judgment or an act in solemn and
authentic form, and that there was no such proof; and also
that the matter was res judicata and barred. On these
grounds it- ordered the complaint to be dismissed.
The former ground was established by this court in
Cordova v. Folgueras, 227 U. S.375, 378, in which it was
decided that "while, under the laws of Toro, the acts of

CALAF v. CALAF.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

recognition alleged, although not amounting to a solemn
recognition, may have entitled a natural child to sue for
her share of the inheritance and to prove the acts in the
same suit, the Code requires a preliminary proceeding to
prove those acts and to declare their effect, and limits
the time within which such proceeding can be brought."
It was added, "This hardly can be called an interference
with vested rights, when a reasonable time for bringing
the preliminary proceeding is allowed." The change was
not a denial of any rights previously acquired, but only a
change in the procedure by which such alleged rights were
to be proved (as, if disputed, they had to be proved in
some proceeding in order to be enjoyed), with a limitation of the time for doing it. We hardly understand it to
be asserted that there was any solemn act or authentic
instrument satisfying the requirements of the Code for
the purposes of the present suit. At all events, we see
no reason for doubting the decision of the court below on
this point. This being so, the appellant could not prove
in this action by private acts of Salvador that Ramon
was his natural son, and the Supreme Court seems to be
plainly right in its intimation that the time for a proceeding in which the filiation might be established by such
acts has gone by. See Burnet v. Desmornes, 226 U. S.145.
Another defence is that the same matter has been
adjudged between the parties. The Civil Code in force,
Article 1219, requires identity 'between the things, causes,
and persons of the litigants,' according to the translation
in the record. It was said by the court below that there
was identity of things, because the end of both suits was
to share in the inheritance of Salvador Calaf; that the
cause of action was the same, that is, recognition of Ramon
as a natural son, asked for in one case and taken for granted
in the other; and (with immaterial changes) that the
persons were the same. We understand the Codes and the
court to assert a doctrine substantially that of our own

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

law. The filiation decided against in the former case is a
material fact in this one and is res judicata unless it is
avoided by. distinctions as to which we will say a word.
In the former suit the appellants alleged the same descent, but instead of alleging express and solemn recognition of Ramon by Salvador as his natural son, sought
to have him declared such and therefore entitled to inherit
one-half of Salvador's estate. Its immediate object was
to establish filiation by a judgment, while the immediate
object here is to'nullify a will. The theory put forward
was so far different, that unless the complaint in this
case had been interpreted as alleging a recognition in
solemn form it would-have been held bad on its face.
In the former suit also the mother was alleged to have
been a slave. But these differing allegations are simply
different means to reach the same result; the possession
by Ramon of the rights of a natural son; and the evidence
offered in this case like the allegations in the former one
was only of private acts. In these circumstances the
true principle has been declared by this court to be that
a judgment or decree bars all grounds for the relief sought.
Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Slaght, 205 U. S. 122, 130, 131.
United States v. California & Oregon Land Co., 192 U. S.
355, 358. The Supreme Court of Porto Rico has applied
the principle here and we should require the clearest
authority before we overruled an application that seems
to us so obviously correct. It is urged further that there
was no final judgment in the former case. Upon a question of that sort we follow the local court unless stronger
reasons against it are produced than can be shown here.
Tiaco v. Forbes, 228 U. S. 549, 558.
Judgment affirmed.

