SVIFT v. McPHERSON.
232 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

SWIFT v. McPHERSON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH
DAKOTA.
No. 77.

Argued November 14, 1913.-Decided January 5, 1914.

While there may be a presumption that a dismissal in equity without
qualifying words is a final decision on the merits, that presumption
of finality disappears when the record shows that the court did not
pass upon the merits but dismissed the bill on any ground not
going to the merits.
The scope of a decree dismissing a bill in equity must in all cases be
measured not only by the allegations of the bill but by the ground of
demurrer or motion on which the dismissal is based. Vicksburg v.
Henson, 231 U. S. 259.
A decree of the Circuit Court of the United States dismissing a bill in
equity on motion of the parties and not for want of merit held, in
this case, not to be a bar to a subsequent suit in the state court on the
same cause of action, and the refusal of the state court to treat the
decree as conclusive on points left open did not deprive the defendant of any Federal right.
27 So. Dak. 296, affirmed.

MCPHERSON, as Assignee of Miller, brought suit against
Swift in a Circuit Court of South Dakota, seeking to
establish his rights to an undivided one-half interest in
certain land then in the possession of Swift. The defendant denied that McPherson had any interest in the property. He further claimed that McPherson had once
before brought a similar suit which, after bcing removed
to the Circuit Court of the United States, had been dismissed and that this dismissal finally adjudicated the
matters at issue in favor of Swift and against McPherson.
The record in the former suit was set out in the answer;
and as the pleadings in the two cases both deal with the
same matters, it will conduce to brevity to state the facts
in narrative form.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

232 U. S.

Swift, on May 8, 1888, purchased a tract of land in
Deadwood, South Dak., paying therefor $18,500 and taking the deed in his own name. Miller, who was a resident
of Deadwood, had been active in securing the land and,
on May 14, 1888, Swift and he made a contract which
recited that Miller "had purchased the land for Swift and
for joint account." For his services in collecting the rents
and looking after the property, Miller was to receive onehalf of the net profits, first deducting 8 per cent. interest
on the purchase price of $18,500. "In consideration of
Miller's agreement to pay Swift one-half of any ultimate
loss that might accrue on said purchase, Swift agreed that
Miller should receive one-half of the profits ultimately
accruing from the sale of the property over and above the
purchase price "-$18,500.
Miller died January 12, 1891, and his Administrator
obtained an order for the sale of Miller's interest in the
land described in the agreement with Swift. After advertisement, this interest was sold to McPherson for
$5,005. Thereupon, on May 18, 1893, McPherson filed
in the state court a bill against Swift, which was removed
to the United States Circuit Court. In it McPherson set
out his purchase of Miller's interest, and alleged that at all
times since Miller's death, the land could have been sold
for a sum largely in excess of $18,500, but that Swift had
neglected to sell or to account for the rents and profits.
McPherson, in the bill, tendered Swift $9,250, one-half
of the original purchase price and demanded a conveyance
and an accounting. Swift's demurrer having been overruled he answered, alleging; among other things, that the
original contract had been fraudulently procured by
Miller, but claiming that if originally valid, it was a, mere
contract of employment which had been revoked by the
death of Miller, and which, therefore, could not pass to
McPherson under the Administrator's sale.
A replication was filed. Several terms passed without

SWIFT v. McPHERSON.
232 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

any testimony having been taken and Swift finally notified
McPherson that he would accept the tender of $9,250 and
recognize him as a partner and joint owner on the terms
stated in the bill. McPherson made no reply to this offer
and thereupon Swift filed a petition in the cause reciting
McPherson's refusal to pay the $9,250 tendered in the
bill, renewed his offer to accept the tender, and asked
leave to withdraw from his answer those paragraphs which
set up an affirmative defense and "to submit to a decree
in plaintiff's favor on such terms as might by the court
be found equitable and just."
A copy of this petition was served on McPherson, who
was required to show cause why it should not be granted.
.At the February term (1896) McPherson appeared in
person and by his solicitors, filed a response under oath
in which he moved the court to dismiss his bill of complaint, stating that his tender had been made at a time
when the value of the property was such that it could
have been sold at a price to net a profit; that Swift had
declined to accept the tender and the property was now
much depreciated in value; and that the tender had been
withdrawn before the procurement of the order to show
cause. McPherson's response concluded by the statement
that "the contract does not require this affiant to pay
any part of the purchase money for the property, but the
same is to be paid at affiant's option out of the proceeds
of the sale; and while he was willing to have paid the
$9,250 at the time the tender was made, the defendant's
refusal for an unreasonable time, and the depreciation of
the value was so great that affiant is not willing now to exceed the strict letter of the contract in reference to the
mode and manner of reimbursing the defendant for the
original purchase price, wherefore he prays the court to
discharge the order to show cause and to dismiss the complaint herein as prayed for in this motion."
After argument by counsel, the court made an order re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

232 U. S.

citing that "the cause coming on to be heard on the application of Swift for leave to withdraw pars. 13 and 14 of
his answer and to submit to a decree in plaintiff's favor on
such terms as might be equitable . . . and the resisting affidavit of the plaintiff who, at the same time, by
his solicitors moved to dismiss the bill . . . and the
court having heard the matter upon the affidavit, bill of
complaint, verified answer and replication, it is ordered
that Swift's application be denied, and it is further adjudged and decreed that this suit and bill of complaint . . . be and the same is hereby dismissed and
that defendant have and recover of the plaintiff, McPherson, the costs of this suit." The defendant excepted, but
there is no record of any appeal having been taken by
Swift.
In June, 1901, five years later, McPherson brought the
present suit in the state court alleging that Swift had
collected large sums by way of rent on the land and the
sale of lots, which sums were more than sufficient to reimburse Swift for the purchase price of $18,500, interest
and expenses, and that upon an accounting, McPherson
would be entitled to one-half of these net profits and to an
undivided one-half of the lots remaining unsold. McPherson prayed for such relief and for partition.
The defendant answered, attacking the validity of the
contract. He also set out the proceedings in the former
suit and pleaded that decree of dismissal by the United
States Circuit Court as a bar to the present suit.
The trial resulted in Swift's favor, but the decree was
reversed by the Supreme Court of the State. 22 S. Dak.
165. On the second trial the court found that there had
been no fraud on Miller's part; that the contract was-not
one of employment but created an interest in the property
w hich was assignable; that McPherson was the owner
thereof by virtue of the Administrator's sale; that Swift
had received $103,436 from rental and sale of land, and

SWIFT v. McPHERSON.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that after proper deductions there was a net profit of
$22,374. A decree was thereupon entered in favor of
McPherson for $11,187 and also for an undivided onehalf of over 100 city lots remaining unsold. On appeal the
decree was affirmed (27 S. Dak. 296) and the case was
then brought here by writ of error.
Mr. Edwin Van Cise, with whom Mr. William H. Beck,
Mr. Frank L. Grant and Mr. Philip S. Van Cise were
on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Norman T. Mason, with whom Mr. ChambersKellar
and Mr. James G. Stanley were on the brief, for defendant
in error.
MR. JUSTICE LAmAR, after making the foregoing statement of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
In the record there are sixty assignments of error involving many rulings of the trial court and the construction
of the contract. We can only consider those which present
the Federal question that, in failing to sustain the plea
of res judicata, the court denied plaintiff a right arising
under the laws of the United States. The refusal of the
state court to treat the decree of the United States court
as a bar to the present action is said to have impaired the
obligation of that decree as a contract; denied the full
faith and credit to which it was entitled and deprived
Swift of it as ptoperty without due process of law. But
all these contentions finally resolve themselves into the
single question as to whether the dismissal was on the
merits finally adjudicating that McPherson had no enforceable rights under the contract which was the basis
of that suit.
Ordinarily, such a question is answered by a mere
inspection of the decree-the presumption being that a

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

dismissal in equity, without qualifying words, is a final
decision on the merits. That presumption of finality,
however, disappears whenever the record shows that the
court did not pass upon the merits but dismissed the bill
because of a want of jurisdiction, for want of parties,
because the suit was brought prematurely, because the
plaintiff had a right to file a subsequent bill on the same
subject-matter, or on any other ground not going to the
merits. The scope of such decree must in all cases be
measured not only by the allegations of the bill, but by
the ground of the demurrer or motion on which the dismissal was based. Hughes v. United States, 4 Wall. 232,
237; Mayor of Vicksburg v. Henson, 231 U. S. 259.
From an examination of this record it is evident that
the dismissal by the United States court was not for want
of merit in the bill, because the demurrer had already been
overruled. It was not for insufficiency of the testimony,
because none had been taken though answer and replication had been filed. It was not a dismissal after a
hearing on bill and answer alone, for the defendant was
asking to withdraw his affirmative defense and insisting
that a decree be entered in favor of McPherson. It was
not a dismissal as on a retraxit, for the plaintiff not only
did not renounce his cause of action, but, in his motion
asserted his rights under a contract which provided for
a future adjustment of profits and liabilities, whenever
the amount of profits or losses was ultimately determined
by the actual sale of the land.
McPherson seems, at first, to. have assumed that it
was not necessary to wait until the property had been
sold, but that by a then present payment of $9,250 he
could at once acquire title to an undivided half interest
in the lots. His tender of that sum was however declined
by Swift who, a year or more later, finally decided to accept the money and asked that a decree be entered in
McPherson's favor. McPherson then refused to pay what

SWIFT v. McPHERSON.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

he had previously offered, explaining in his response to
Swift's motion, that since the rejection of the tender the
land had decreased in value and, asserting that he was not
then willing to dQ more than was required by the contract
-under which he could wait until the ultimate sale of the
property to determine what, if anything, he was bound
to pay. He thereupon "moved the court to dismiss the
bill as prayed for in this motion." The motion was
granted, and Swift excepted.
The record presented an unusual and somewhat ludicrous shifting of positions,-with the defendant insisting
that a decree be entered against himself; the complainant
resisting a decree in his favor; and the defendant, with
no cross-bill filed, excepting to a dismissal. Of course
this reversal of position does not change the legal effect
of the decree, but it serves to emphasize the fact that it
was not a decree against plaintiff on the merits, but one
based on McPherson's motion which asserted a contract
fixing liability and giving him rights dependent on the
ultimate outcome of the investment. The court did
not decide what those rights were, nor did it adjudicate
that a suit to enforce them could not thereafter be filed.
The decree not being on the merits could not be a bar to
such subsequent suit in a state or United States court
(Texas Co. v. Starnes, 128 Fed. Rep. 183). The refusal
to treat the decree as conclusive of a point which had
been left open did not deprive Swift of any Federal right
and the judgment of the Supreme Court of South Dakota
must be
Affirmed.

