OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

232 U. S.

As by these answers the right to impose and collect the
tax under the facts stated will be established, in view of
what we shall say in a case between the same parties which
follows this, we think it proper to observe that nothing in
our reply to these questions is to be so construed as to
deprive the court below of the power to take such steps as
it may deem necessary to avoid injustice if it should be
deemed that by some mistake of fact such a result might
occur. The answers to the questions will be certified in
accordance with the directions above given.
And it is so ordered.

UNITED STATES v. BENNETT (NO. 2).
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 630.

Argued January 6, 7, 1914.-Decided February 24, 1914.

United States v. Goelet, ante, p. 293, followed to effect that the tax
imposed by ยง 37 of the Tariff Act of 1909 does not apply to the use
of a foreign-built yacht owned by a citizen of the United States who
or only such proportion- thereof as the time during which the act was
in force at that date bears to the whole year?

IV. Has Congress the power to levy a tax upon the use by a citizen
of the United States of a yacht which is not actually and since the year
1904 was not at any time used withinthe territorial jurisdiction of the
United States and which has its permanent situs in a foreign country?
V. Does said act of Congress, by purporting to impose a tax upon
the use of foreign-built yachts alone, provide a valid tax, or a valid
classification for purposes of taxation, within the power to lay and collect

taxes delegated to Congress by the Constitution of the United States?
VI. Is the tax purporting to be imposed by said act of Congress in
conflict with the requirement of due process of law contained in the
fifth article of amendment to the Constitution of the United States?
VII. Is the United States entitled to recover interest upon the tax
imposed upon the use of foreign-built yachts in and by section 37 of
the Tariff Act of August 5, 1909?

UNITED STATES v. BENNETT (NO. 2).
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

was permanently resident and domiciled in a foreign country for
more than one year prior to September 1, 1909, and to the levy of
such tax.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Adkins, with whom Mr.
Karl W. Kirchwey was on the brief, for the United States.1
Mr. William D. Guthrie for the yacht owner in this and
2
other cases argued simultaneously herewith.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The certificate discloses that this case involves the right
of the United States to recover an excise duty levied under
ยง 37 of the Tariff Act of 1909 which became due on September 1, 1910, on the same yacht which was the subject
of the duty becoming due in 1909 and which we have
passed upon in the case just decided. All the statements
as to the complaint and answer, the submission of the
case by stipulation to the court without a jury, the judgment rejecting the claim of the United States and the
prosecution of error from the court below are in substance
like those stated in the case concerning the tax for 1910 between the United States and Goelet this day decided. As
the result of this situation, the certificate recites, differing in
that respect from the Bennett Case just previously decided,
the trial court made the following finding: "Defendant is a
citizen of the United States and for some years past has
been domiciled in and resident of the Republic of France."
Conformably to this finding the second question propounded by the court below in this case, asks whether
the act applies where the owner of the yacht, although a
citizen, was permanently domiciled and residing in a
foreign country for more than two years prior to Sep1 See

argument, p. 269, ante.
See argument, p. 263, ante.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

232 U. S.

tember 1, 1910, and to the levy of such tax. As for the
reasons stated in the Goelet Case, such question was answered in the negative, it follows that a like reply must be
made here and- therefore there is no need of replying to
any of the other questions. In deciding the previous
case between the same parties, we made a reservation
concerning the power of the court below to deal with
the former case in the future, because of the fact that the
findings in this case are absolutely' in conflict with the
state of things exhibited in the previous Bennett Case.
Our order will bf,, second question answered in the negative and the other questions not answered.
And it will be so certified.
RAINEY v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES-FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

UNITED STATES v. RAINEY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE *CIRCUIT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

RAINEY v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

UNITED STATES v. RAINEY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
Nos. 74, 627, 73, 628.

Argued January 6, 7, 1914.-Decided February 24, 1914.

Billings v. United States, ante, p. 261, followed to the effect that under
ยง 37 of the Tariff Act of 1909, in imposing a tax on the use of foreignbuilt yachts there is authority to bring an action in personam against
the owner for the recovery; that the tax became due on the first day

