OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

232 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. BUCHANAN.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.

No. 589. Argued December 3, 1913.-Decided January 5, 1914.
The term, "Public lands subject to settlement or entry," does not include lands that have been entered and a certificate of entry obtained
therefor, and § 3 of the act of February 25, 1885, c. 149, 23 Stat. 322,
does not apply to such lands.
An entry withdraws the land from entry or settlement by another and
segregates it from the public domain, and the possessory right acquired by the entryman is in the nature of private property and
entitled to protection as such; and interference with the peaceable
possession of the entryman is not punishable under a Federal statute
applicable only to public lands still subject to entry.

THE Grand Jury for the District of Colorado indicted
Buchanan for a violation of the act "to prevent unlawful

occupancy of the public land." The indictment charged
that in February, 1907, one Edward Scott made a homestead entry, at the proper office, of a quarter-section of
land in Colorado, and died, March 28, 1910, leaving the
homestead entry in full force and effect; that thereafter
"his heirs were in lawful possession of and were engaged
in cultivating the said homestead land for the purpose of
protecting their right as heirs to the same, until May 9,
1911, when the defendant, Buchanan, wilfully, wickedly,
unlawfully and feloniously did prevent and obstruct said
heirs from peaceably entering upon and establishing a
settlement and residence on the said homesteaded land,
of the United States subject to settlement and entry under
the public land laws." The defendant demurred on the
ground that the facts charged did not constitute an offense
punishable under §3 of the act of February 25, 1885,
c. 149, 23 Stat. 321, 322, which provides:

UNITED STATES v. BUCHANAN.
232 U. S.

Counsel for Defendant in Error.

"SEc. 3. That no person, by force, threats, intimidation,
or by any fencing or inclosing, or any other unlawful
means, shall prevent op obstruct, . . . any person
from peaceably entering upon or establishing a settlement
or residence on any tract of public land subject to settlement or entry under the public land laws of the United
States."
The defendant's demurrer was sustained and the Government brought the case here under the Criminal Appeals
Act.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Knaebel, with whom
Mr. S. W. Williams was on the brief, for the United
States:
The third section of the act of February 25, 1885, was
intended for the protection of the right of a homestead
claimant to continue his settlement and residence throughout the period required by the homestead law, no less
than for the protection of his right to initiate settlement
and residence; and the ruling of the trial court to the
contrary was error. Buford v. Houtz, 133 U. S. 320;
Cameronv. United States, 148 U. S. 301; Camfield v. United
States, 167 U. S. 518; Dickey v. Turnpike Co., 37 Kentucky,
113; Golconda Cattle Co. v. United States, 201 Fed. Rep.
281; Heirs of Stevenson v. Cunningham, 32 L. D. 650;
State v. Rogers, 107 Alabama, 444; United States v. Lacher,
134 U. S. 624; United States v. Mills, 190 Fed. Rep. 513;
United States v. Perry, 45 Fed. Rep. 759; see also Revised
Statutes, § 2291; Black's Law Diet. 436; Cong. Rec.,
vol. 15, pt. 5, pp. 4768-4783; Cong. Rec., vol. 16, pt. 1,
p. 622; Id., pt. 2, pp. 1456, 1478; Report H. R., No. 1325,
48th Cong., 1st Sess.; Sen. Ex. Doe., No. 127, 48th Cong.,
1st Sess.; Sen. Rep., No. 979, 48th Cong., 2d Sess.
Mr. S. E. Naugle, with whom Mr. C. W. Waterman
was on the brief, for defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR,

232 U. S.

after making the foregoing state-

ment of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
The statute, under which the defendant was indicted,
makes it unlawful to prevent "any person from peaceably
entering upon or establishing a settlement or residence on
public land, subject to settlement or entry." The indictment charges that the defendant prevented the heirs of the
homesteader "from entering upon and establishing a
settlement and residence on homesteaded lands of the
United States subject to settlement and entry." This
difference between the language of the statute-"public
land of the United States"-and the charge in the indictment-" homesteaded land of the United States "-raises
the question whether, after entry and before patent, land
covered by a homestead claim is public land within the
meaning of the act "to prevent unlawful occupancy of
the public land."
In construing the statute it must be remembered that
at the time of its passage in 1885, by tacit consent of the
Government, any person could graze sheep and cattle
upon any part of the public domain. Buford v. Houtz,
133 U. S. 320, 326; Light v. United States, 220 U. S. 523,
535. Many availed themselves of this privilege and the
cattle of different owners fed together on the open prairie,
no one claiming that thereby any exclusive right had
been acquired. The first fences were built only around
very small areas. But from this small beginning the
practice rapidly grew, until in some cases vast tracts were
fenced in by herdsmen who treated the land as though
it was their own property. 5 H. R. 1325, 48th Cong. 1st
Sess. These unlawful fences not only closed the roads and
obstructed the mails, but there were occasions in which
citizens were prevented from peaceably taking possession
of these enclosed public lands and by settlement thereon
securing the right to enter the same at the Register's office.

UNITED STATES v. BUCHANAN.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Under these circumstances Congress passed the act
intended to protect the rights of the United States as
proprietor, by making unlawful "all inclosures of any
public land"; to prevent obstruction of the roads; to
create a method for summary removal of fences; and to
provide a punishment for those who prevented others
from entering upon or establishing a settlement on public
land subject to settlement or entry. But all its provisions
related to public lands-not to private lands; to land
subject to entry-not to land which had been entered in
the Register's office; to land subject to settlement-not to
land on which a settlement had already been established.
For, as shown by the context, the word "established"
did not mean "to fix unalterably" (Osborne v. San Diego
Co., 178 U. S. 22, 39), but to create or set up the settlement which had to be made prior to entry at the Register's
office in the case of a prefmptor and could be so made in
the case of a homesteader. Rev. Stat., §§ 2289, 2259,
2263, 2264, act of May 14, 1880; 21 Stat. 140, c. 89, § 3.
Stearns v. United States, 152 Fed. Rep. 900, 902 (10); 4
Op. of Atty. Gen. 493. These provisions refer not to something to be done in the future but to a settlement already
completed and require that within thirty days after this
finished act, proof of such settlement shall be made.
When, on that proof, or compliance with other statutory
conditions, entry was made, the Prefmptor or Homesteader was entitled to possession and could protect himself by legal proceedings against intrusion by cattlemen
or others.'
1 Snc. 2289. Every person who is the head of a family .
shall be entitled to enter one-quarter section . . . of unappropriated public land. .
Snc. 2259. Every person, being the head of a family . . . who
has made, or hereafter makes, a settlement in person on the public
lands subject to prefmption, and who inhabits and improves the same,
and who has erected or shall erect a dwelling thereon, is authorized to

76

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

The indictment here charges that, after having entered
this quarter-section at the Register's office, Moore remained in possession for three years and that when he
died the homestead was in full force and was thereafter
maintained by his heirs. This negatives any idea of
abandonment. It implies that he not only entered the
land at the proper office, but had established a settlement,
erected a dwelling, and both acquired and maintained that
"inceptive right" which "was the commencement of
title." Chotard v. Pope, 12 Wheat. 586, 588; Hoofnagle
v. Anderson, 7 Wheat. 212.
The land covered by the homestead of Moore was
therefore not public land of the United States subject to
entry or settlement. For, "in no just sense can land be
said to be public lands after they have been entered at the
land office and a certificate of entry obtained. If public
lands before the entry, after it they are private property."
Wisconsin R. R. Co. v. Price County, 133 U. S. 496, 506;
Svor v. Morris, 227 U. S. 524-528. The entry by Moore
withdrew the land from entry or settlement by any other,
enter with the Register of the land office . . . any number of
acres not exceeding 160 . . . upon paying to the United States

the minimum price of such land.
SEc. 2263. Prior to any entries being made under the provisions of
§ 2259, proof of the settlement and improvement thereby required
shall be made to the satisfaction of the Register.
SEC. 2264. When any person settles or improves a tract of land subject at the time of settlement to private entry, and intends to purchase
the same under the preceding provisions of this chapter, he shall,
within thirty days after the date of such settlement, file with the register of the proper district a written statement, describing the land
settled upon and declaring his intention to claim the same under the
preemption laws; and he shall, moreover, within twelve months after
the date of such settlement, make the proof, affidavit, and payment
hereinbefore required. If he fails to file such written statement, or to
make such affidavit, proof, and payment within the several periods
named above, the tract of land so settled and improved shall be subject
to the entry of any other purchaser.

UNITED STATES v. BUCHANAN.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and segregated the quarter-section from the public domain.
The legal title remained in the Government until patent
issued; but as against all except the United States he was
the lawful possessor clothed with an inceptive title (Sturr
v. Beck, 133 U. S. 541, 547, 549; Bunker Hill Co. v. United
States, 226 U. S. 548, 550), which entitled him to maintain
suits in equity or actions at law to obtain redress for a
violation of his possessory rights. Russian-American Co.
v. United States, 199 U. S. 570, 577. The homesteader
having thus acquired the right to "treat the land as his
own" so far as was necessary to carry out the purposes of
the statute (Shiver v. United States, 159 U. S. 491, 497),
it is apparent that this right was in the nature of private
property, and entitled to protection as such. Interference
with the possession of the homesteader or his heirs living
on land thus withdrawn from entry was not punishable
under a Federal statute applicable only to public lands
subject to entry.
This view is sustained by the terms of the statute and is
in accord with the policy to leave the protection of such
possessory claims to the laws of the several States. Congress could have legislated so as to make the statute
applicable until patent issued. But instead of doing so,
it left the homesteader, who had acquired a possessory
title, to avail himself of the same rights that were open to
others holding lands, by title absolute or inchoate. In
both cases there was right of possession, and in both cases
wrongs against possession could be redressed. Such seems
to have been the practical construction of the statute since
its passage, twenty-eight years ago, for we are cited to
no case in which a prosecution has been instituted, in a
Federal court, against one interfering with the possession
of a homesteader after entry and before patent.
Judgment affirmed.

