MONTOYA v. GONZALES.
232 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

MONTOYA AND UNKNOWN HEIRS OF VIGIL v.
GONZALES.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
NEW MEXICO.
No. 204.

Argued January 27, 1914.-Decided February 24, 1914.

The disposition of this court is to leave decisions of the territorial
court on questions of local procedure undisturbed.
The Supreme Court of the Territory of New Mexico having construed
the statute permitting intervention in partition during the pendency
of the suit as allowing an intervention after the judgment for partition and report of commissioners that actual partition could not be
made, but before the final action of the court on such report, this
court approves that construction. Clark v. Roller, 199 U. S. 541.
A statute of limitations may give title.
The evident purpose of the statute of New Mexico, giving title under a
deed purporting to convey a fee simple after ten years to lands ineluded in grants by Spain, Mexico or the United States, is to ripen
disseisin into title and is not unconstitutional as taking property
without due process of law.
Nor does such statute deny equal protection of the law by its classification of Spanish, Mexican and United States grants; such a classification in the Territory of New Mexico is a reasonable one to prevent the
evil of attempts to revive stale claims in regard to such grants.
16 New Mexico, 349, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the title to a Spanish grant

of land in New Mexico and the construction and constitutionality of a statute of limitation of the Territory,
are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Alonzo B. McMillen for appellants.
Mr. George S. Klock, with whom Mr. Neill B. Field was
on the brief, for appellees.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE

232 U. S.

HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was begun on June 12, 1906, for the partition, among the remote heirs of Juan Gonzales, of the
Alameda Land Grant, a Spanish grant of land in New
Mexico, confirmed as perfect by the Court of Private
Land Claims of the United States. On June 17, 1907, a
judgment of partition was entered, declaring the persons
named to be entitled to stated fractional undivided interests, and appointing commissioners to divide the land,
or to report to the court if it could not be divided without
prejudice to the owners. On July 3, 1907, the commissioners reported that partition could not be made, and
before further action of the court, on July 20, 1907, the
appellees asked leave to intervene in order to assert
adverse interests. The application was allowed on November 20, 1907, and the questions now before this court
arise between these intervenors and heirs of Gonzales.By way of parenthesis we will dispose of a preliminary
objection at this point. It was argued that the decree of
partition was a final decree and that the intervention came
too late; but apart from the often stated disposition of this
court to leave decisions upon matters of local procedure
undisturbed, Tiaco v. Forbes, 228 U. S. 549, 558, the right
to intervene was given by statute 'during the pendency
of such suit' and the decision that the suit still was pending was right. New Mex. Compiled Laws, 1897, § 3182,
Acts of 1907, c. 107, sub-section 269. See .further Clark
v. Roller, 199 U. S. 541, 546.
The main questions concern the merits of the case.
The greater part of the Alameda Grant it is found, has
been occupied in strips, from beyond the memory of men
now living. The intervenors claim such strips, most of
them but a few yards wide, but extending, as they say,
from the Rio Grande westward to the Ceja or ridge of
Rio Puerco, a distance of some sixteen miles. They have

MONTOYA v. GONZALES.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

no documentary evidence of a title derived from Juan
Gonzales, but they and their predecessors in title have
occupied the bottom lands between the Rio Grande and
the foothills to the west for more than ten years under
deeds purporting to convey a fee simple in the respective
strips to the ridge of Rio Puerco. The eastern part has
been fenced, cultivated and built upon; but from the
foothills to, the Ceja of Rio Puerco the land is unfenced,
and by a general custom has been used mainly for the
grazing of cattle by the intervenors and others claiming
ownership in the grant. The title to this last-mentioned
land alone is in question now, and it will be seen that if
the intervenors have the title they claim, it must have been
gained by the lapse of time during which they have held
what they have held under the above mentioned deeds.
The judgment was in their favor in the courts below. 16
New Mex. 349.
The title of the intervenors does not depend upon the
ordinary statute of limitations and some considerations
that might be relevant under that statute are not relevant
here. The title rests upon a peculiar statute that has been
in force unchanged in any particular affecting this case,
it is said, since 1858. Compiled Laws, 1865, c. 73, § 1.
Compiled Laws, 1897, § 2937. By this act, possession for
ten years, under a deed purporting to convey a fee simple,
of any lands which have been granted by Spain, Mexico
or the United States, gives a title in fee to the quantity
of land specified in the deed, if during the ten years no
claim by suit in law or equity effectually prosecuted shall
have been set up. We state the statute according to its
construction by the court below, with which, again, we
should be slow to interfere, Gray v. Taylor, 227 U. S.
51, 57, and which also seems plainly right. The intervenors therefore are brought precisely within the words of
the act, and we think it unnecessary to spend time on the
suggestion that the appellants equally are within it, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

therefore, on the principle of cases such as Hunnicutt v.
Peyton, 102 U. S. 333, are entitled to prevail on the
strength of their older title so far as they were not actually
excluded from the land. The purpose of the act is to ripen
disseisin into title according to the deed under which the
disseisor holds, and it is especially directed against ancient
claims such as the appellants set up.
It only remains to consider whether there is anything
in the Constitution of the United States to prevent the
statute from doing its work. We limit our inquiry to its
operation in the present case, and do not speculate as to
whether other cases could be put in which the letter of
some parts of the law could not be sustained. As applied
to the intervenors, the statute simply enacts that possession for ten years of the front and cultivable portion of a
strip under a deed carrying the whole of it back to the
ridge of the Puerco, shall give title to the whole. We can
see no taking of property without due process of law in
this. A statute of limitation may give title. Toltec Ranch
Co. v. Cook, 191 U. S. 532. Davis v. Mills, 194 U. S. 451,
456, 457. United States v. Chandler-DunbarWater Power
Co., 209 U. S. 447. The disseisee has notice of the law
and of the fact that he is dispossessed, and that a deed
to the disseisor may purport to convey more than is fenced
in. If he chooses to wait ten years without bringing suit,
he is not in a position to complain of the consequencesat least, not when, as in the present case, the deeds do
not purport to convey more than a reasonable man probably would have anticipated. See Soper v. Lawrence
Brothers Co., 201 U. S. 359, 367, 368. For we should conjecture, if it were material, that in this case the deeds
under which the intervenors held were in a form that was
usual and expected in that place.
The statute does not deny the equal protection of the
laws, even if it should be confined to Spanish and Mexican
grants. For there very well may have been grounds for

MITCHELL STORE BUILDING CO. v. CARROLL.
232 U. S.

379

Statement of the Case.

the discrimination in the history of those grants and the
greater probability of an attempt to revive stale claims,
as is explained by the Supreme Court of New Mexico.
There is no other matter that we think proper for reconsideration here.
Judgment affirmed.

MITCHELL STORE BUILDING COMPANY v.
CARROLL, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF
HERMAN KECK MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 212. Argued January 28, 1914.-Decided February 24, 1914.
Section 24a of the Bankruptcy Act provides for appeals in controversies arising in bankruptcy proceedings and controls a proceeding
brought by the trustee to restrain a landlord from prosecuting a
suit for rent in the state court. In such a case the appeal takes the
course prescribed in the Circuit Court of Appeals Act of 1891.
Although a case taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals under § 7 of the
act of 1891 is not one of the class inade final by § 6 of that act, the
jurisdiction of this court under § 6 relates solely to final orders of the
District Court reviewed .by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
An interlocutory decree of the District Court granting a temporary
injunction against prosecuting a suit in the state court, is not a
final order, and from the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming it there is no appeal to this court.
This court cannot entertain an appeal from a judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals upon a petition to revise under § 24b of the Bankruptcy Act.
Appeal from 193 Fed. Rep. 616, dismissed.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
of appeals in controversies arising in bankruptcy proceedings, are stated in the opinion.

