MITCHELL STORE BUILDING CO. v. CARROLL.
232 U. S.

379

Statement of the Case.

the discrimination in the history of those grants and the
greater probability of an attempt to revive stale claims,
as is explained by the Supreme Court of New Mexico.
There is no other matter that we think proper for reconsideration here.
Judgment affirmed.

MITCHELL STORE BUILDING COMPANY v.
CARROLL, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF
HERMAN KECK MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 212. Argued January 28, 1914.-Decided February 24, 1914.
Section 24a of the Bankruptcy Act provides for appeals in controversies arising in bankruptcy proceedings and controls a proceeding
brought by the trustee to restrain a landlord from prosecuting a
suit for rent in the state court. In such a case the appeal takes the
course prescribed in the Circuit Court of Appeals Act of 1891.
Although a case taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals under § 7 of the
act of 1891 is not one of the class inade final by § 6 of that act, the
jurisdiction of this court under § 6 relates solely to final orders of the
District Court reviewed .by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
An interlocutory decree of the District Court granting a temporary
injunction against prosecuting a suit in the state court, is not a
final order, and from the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming it there is no appeal to this court.
This court cannot entertain an appeal from a judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals upon a petition to revise under § 24b of the Bankruptcy Act.
Appeal from 193 Fed. Rep. 616, dismissed.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
of appeals in controversies arising in bankruptcy proceedings, are stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

Mr. P. Lincoln Mitchell and Mr. Walter A. DeCamp
for appellant.
Mr. Joseph S. Graydon, with whom Mr. Joseph L.
Lackner and Mr. Lawrence Maxwell were on the brief, for
appellee.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the memorandum opinion

of the court.
An involuntary petition in bankruptcy was filed against
The Keck Manufacturing Company on 'February 8, 1909,
in the District Court of the United States for the Southern
District of Ohio, and it was later adjudicated a bankrupt.
Upon application a receiver was appointed for the Duhme
Jewelry Company, an adjunct of The Keck Manufacturing
Company, all of the stock of the former being owned by
the latter company, and subsequently the receiver, in
pursuance of an order of the court, transferred all the
property and assets of The Duhme Jewelry Company to
the trustee of the bankrupt, by him to be kept under
separate account.
The Mitchell Store Building Company had leased certain premises to The Duhme Jewelry Company, which on
June 30, 1910, the rent being paid to that time, the latter
company vacated, although the lease had not yet expired.
The Mitchell Store Building Company brought suit
against The Duhme Jewelry Company in the Common
Pleas Court' of Hamilton County, Ohio, to recover under
the lease, also applying to the District Court for an order
on the trustee to withhold sufficient in amount of the
assets of The Duhme Jewelry Company to satisfy its
claim, which was eventually refused by the referee and is
now before the District Judge upon petition for review.
Upon the petition of the trustee The Mitchell Store
Building Company was made a party to the bankruptcy
proceeding, in the District Court, and later the trustee

MITCHELL STORE BUILDING "CO. v. CARROLL.
232 U. S.

381

Opinion of the Court.

sought to restrain that company from prosecuting its
suit in the state court. The District Judge granted a
temporary injunction and upon appeal the Circuit Court
of Appeals affirmed the order of the District Court. There
was also a petition to review the order of the District Court
granting the temporary injunction, but that was not
passed upon by the Circuit Court of Appeals. The case
was then brought to this court by appeal, the petition.lor
appeal stating that "this cause is one in which the United
States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit has
not final jurisdiction, and that it is a proper cause to be
reviewed by the Supreme Court of the United States on
appeal."
The jurisdiction of the appellate courts of the United
States, including this court, under the Bankruptcy Act,
is regulated by §§ 24 and 25 of that act. Under the
latter section appeals may be taken in certain cases from
the District Court to the Circuit Court of Appeals, and,
under certain limitations, appeals may be allowed from
the latter court to this court, from final decisions of the
Circuit Court of Appeals allowing or rejecting claims.
This case does not come within § 25. Section 24a provides for appeals in controversies arising in bankruptcy
proceedings and controls the present case. In such cases
the appeal takes the course prescribed in the Circuit
Court of Appeals Act (act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26
Stat. 826, 828). See Hewit v. Berlin Machine Works, 194
U. S. 296; Coder v. Arts, 213 U. S. 223.
It is undertaken to sue out the appeal in this case from
the Circuit Court of Appeals under § 6 of the Circuit
Court of Appeals Act, as the petition for allowance of
appeal shows; while the appeal to the Circuit Court of
Appeals was under § 7 of that act, as amended (act of
June 6, 1900, c. 803, 31 Stat. 660), providing for an appeal
from an interlocutory order of a District or Circuit Court,
granting an injunction, to the Circuit Court of Appeals

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

in a cause in which an appeal from a final decree might
have been taken under the act. No provision is made in
this section, or in any other, for a further appeal, concerning such interlocutory orders, to this court.
Section 6 regulates appeals from the Circuit Court of
Appeals to this court, providing that cases not made final
by that section shall be entitled to review in this court.
While this case, taken to the Circuit of Appeals under
§ 7, is not one of the class made final in that court by § 6,
it is well settled that this court's jurisdiction under § 6
relates solely to final orders of the District Court reviewed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals. The decree in the District Court being an interlocutory order granting a temporary injunction, and the Circuit Court of Appeals simply
affirming that order, it is not a proper case for appeal to
this court. Kirwan v. Murphy, 170 U. S. 205.
If this case were treated as an appeal from'the judgment
of the Circuit of Court Appeals, upon a petition te revise
under § 24b of the Bankruptcy Act, this court would not
entertain the appeal. Holden v. Stratton, 191 U. S. 115.
It follows that the appeal
Must be dismissed. The petztion for a writ of certiorari
filed in this cause is denied.

