OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

232 U. S.

Error is assigned respecting certain remarks made by
counsel for plaintiff in addressing the jury; but if there was
any impropriety it was cured by the instructions of the
trial judge.
The only other point deserving notice is the contention
that the motion of plaintiff in error (defendant below) for
a direction of a verdict in its favor ought to have been
granted because of § 4, c. 99, p. 230, Session Laws 1907 of
Arizona, which is in effect that a contract for sale of any
chose in action of the value of $500 or upwards shall not
be enforceable unless some note or memorandum in writing be signed by the party to be charged, or his agent.
Assuming-what is not clear-that the point was brought
to the attention of the trial court, it is sufficient for present
purposes to say that there is nothing in the record to show
that the question was raised upon the appeal to the territorial Supreme Court. Gila Valley &c. Railway Co. v.
Hall, ante, p. 94, and cases cited.
Judgment affirmed.

ROSS v. DAY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE. OF
OKLAHOMA.
No. 122.

Argued December 11, 1913.-Decided January 5, 1914.

Whether parties had actually improved Cherokee lands in such sense
as to give them a preferential right of selection and allotment under
§ 11 of the act of July 1, 1902, c. 1375, 32 Stat. 716, is not a mere
question of law but one of fact and law, and, as far as it involves the
drawing of correct inferences from the evidence it is a question of
fact.
Where, in such a case, the whole controversy depends upon whether the
allotment was in accord with actual ownership of the improvements

ROSS v. DAY.
232 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

thereon and there is neither fraud nor clear mistake of law in the
decision of the Secretary of the Interior on final appeal to him, his
findings are conclusive.
29 Oklahoma, 186, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the title to certain lands allotted under the Cherokee Indian Allotment Act of July 1,
1902, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Kenneth S. Murchison for plaintiffs in error:
The rights of possession are to be determined by Cherokee laws.
Plaintiffs had no remedy at law.
The jurisdiction and powers of the Secretary of the Interior in allotment of Cherokee lands were like those exercised by the Land Department over public lands.
The record made before the referee in this cause is the
only record that this court has the power to examine,
because, by the constitution of the State of Oklahoma, the
District Courts, even in cases where appeals may be taken
to those courts, can only try cases de novo, and, if the
court had jurisdiction at all of this case, it could only try
the same upon the record brought into the court through
its own processes. See Cherokee Nation v. Georgia, 5 Pet.
1; Cherokee Nation v. Journeycake, 155 U. S. 180; Cherokee
Trust Funds, 117 U. S. 228; Hand v. Cook, 92 Pac. Rep. 3;
Johnson v. Towsley, 13 Wall. 72; Jones v. Germania Iron
Co., 107 Fed. Rep. 597; Mackey v. Coxe, 18 How. 100;
Musgrove v. Harper, 94 Pac. Rep. 187; Rector v. Gibbon,
111 U. S. 276; R. R. Co. v. Forsythe, 159 U. S. 46; Talton v.
Mayes, 163 U. S. 376; United States v. McDaniel, 7 Pet.
1; United States v. Thurber, 28 Fed. Rep. 56; United States
v. Winona & St. P. R. R. Co., 67 Fed. Rep. 954; Wallace
v. Adams, 143 Fed. Rep. 720; aff'd 204 U. S. 415.
Mr. Jerre P. O'Meara,with whom Mr. James A. Veasey
was on the brief, for defendant in error:

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.

Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

The findings of fact contained in the decision of the
Secretary of the Interior are conclusive upon this court.
The Secretary of the Interior committed no errors of
law in the decision sought to be avoided by plaintiffs in
error. See Vance v. Burbank, 101 U. S. 514; Quinby v.
Conlan, 104 U. S. 420; Gonzales v. French, 164 U. S. 338;
Greenameyer v. Coate, 212 U. S. 434; Baldwin v. Starks,
107 U. S. 463; Shepley v. Cowan, 91 U. S. 330; Ross
v. Stewart, 227 U. S. 530; United States v. Throckmorton,
98 U. S. 61; Moore v. Robbins, 96 U. S. 530; 32 Stat. 716.
MR. JUSTICE PiTNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This action was brought by the present plaintiffs in
error for the purpose of obtaining a decree declaring the
defendant in error to be a trustee for the plaintiffs with
respect to the title to certain lands in the Cherokee Nation
(a tract of twenty acres, and a separate tract of ten acres
within the same quarter-section), that were allotted to
defendant in error under the act of July 1, 1902, 32 Stat.
716, c. 1375. The decision of the Oklahoma Supreme
Court in favor of the latter is reported in 29 Oklahoma,
186.
Plaintiffs are citizens by blood of the Cherokee Nation,
and entitled to allotments under § 11 of the act; defendant
is a registered Delaware, entitled to allotment, under
§ 23. Defendant filed applications in the Cherokee Land
Office for the lands in controversy on May 5, 1904, and
they were set apart to him as portions of his allotment
selection. Later, and on July 1 in the same year, the
plaintiff, Robert B. Ross, appeared at the Land Office and
made application for the same lands, a portion to be set
apart to himself and a portion for his wife. These applications being refused because the lands had already been
selected by defendant, plaintiffs immediately brought
contests, which were consolidated and heard together by

ROSS v. DAY.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the Commissioner to the Five Civilized Tribes, and he
decided in favor of contestants. Upon appeal to the Commissioner of Indian Affairs this decision was affirmed.
But upon a further appeal to the Secretary of the Interior
there was a decision against the plaintiffs and in favor
of defendant. The contests were based upon the same
alleged equity upon which the present action is founded;
that is, contestants, admitting the prior allotments to
contestee, insisted that his application was subject to
their prior right of selection upon the ground that they
were the owners of improvements that were upon the
property at the time contestee entered upon it. The
question turns upon the effect of §11 of the act of July 1,
1902, 32 Stat., p. 717, already referred to, which reads as
follows: "There shall be allotted by the Commission to
the Five Civilized Tribes and to each citizen of the Cherokee tribe, as soon as practicable after the approval by
the Secretary of the Interior of his enrollment as herein
provided, land equal in value to one hundred and ten
acres of the average allottable lands of the Cherokee
Nation, to conform as nearly as may be to the areas and
boundaries established by the Government survey, which
land may be selected by each allottee so as to include his
improvements."
The findings of the Secretary were as follows: That the
lands in question were claimed prior to 1902 by a firm
of Johnstone & Keeler, Cherokee citizens, and constituted
portions of a large tract which was at one time wholly or
partially inclosed by wire fence; that the members of
the firm divided their holdings between them, and Keeler
took that part which included the lands in contest; that on
November 1, 1902, Keeler transferred his possessory interest in this land, -with the improvements thereon, to
the contestants by bill of sale; but at this time the fencing
was pretty well down, and the land contained no improvements of material value, except that about one and a half
VOL. ccxxxii-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

acres were under cultivation by one Bixler, a non-citizen
who farmed adjacent lands, but whose improvement was
not to be credited to contestants; that contestants did
nothing in the way of placing improvements upon the
property until March 1, 1904, when their son, Dr. Ross,
visited the land, and, with the assistance of a surveyor and
two other persons, located the lines, and indicated them
by setting posts or stakes; that these posts were cut and
set by two men in about five hours; that some of the posts
were about the size of a man's arm, and others were mere
stakes or poles; that they were placed from 50 to 100 feet
apart, except at the corners, where five posts were set in
comparative proximity; the posts bounding the tracts
were not joined, by wire or otherwise, so as to make a
connected fence; and no further act of improvement or
occupation was done in behalf of the contestants. That,
on the other hand, the contestee, who had lived in the
neighborhood of the land for about thirty years and
claimed to have cut timber, posts, and fuel upon it for
twenty-five years past, when he learned on March 1, 1904,
of the efforts made by Dr. Ross and his party to survey
and inclose it, immediately purchased the necessary
wire and proceeded to fence the property, cutting a part
of the posts and buying part; that, he being assisted by
his son, the work required about two and a half days;
that in constructing this fence two wires were used for
the greater part of its length, and the controverted tracts
were substantially inclosed; that after thus fencing the
land, and before filing thereon, he erected a three-room
house at a cost of about $250 upon one of the tracts, and
immediately took up his residence therein.
The Secretary of the Interior concluded that the fences
upon the tracts in question at the time of the alleged
purchase by the plaintiffs from Keeler were not of sufficient consequence or value in connection. with the land
to be entitled to be classed as improvements; that the

ADAMSON v. CALIFORNIA.
46

BLACK,

J., dissenting-Appendix.

nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal
protection of the laws.'
"I hope the gentleman now knows why I changed the
form of the amendment of February, 1866.
. "Mr. Speaker, that the scope and meaning of the limitations imposed by the first section, fourteenth amendment
of the Constitution may be more fully understood, permit
me to say that the privileges and immunities of citizens of
the United States, as contradisiinguished from citizens of
a State, are chiefly defined in the first eight amendments.
to the Constitution of the United States. Those eight
amendments are as follows: [Here Mr. Bingham recited
verbatim the first eight articles.]
"These eight articles I have shown never were limitations upon the power of the States, until mad6 so by the
fourteenth amendment. The words of that amendment,
'no State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge
the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United
States,' are an express prohibition upon every State of
the Union, which may be enforced under existing laws of
Congress, and such other laws for their better enforcement as Congress may make.
"Mr. Speaker, that decision in the fourth of Washington's Circuit Court Reports, to which my learned colleague
. . . has referred is only a construction of the second section, fourth article of the original Constitution, to wit,
'The citizens of each State shall be entitled to all privileges
and immunities of citizens in the, several States.' In that
case the court only held that in civil rights the State could
not refuse to extend to citizens of other States the same
general rights secured to its own.
"In the case of The United States vs. Primrose, Mr.
Webster said that-'For the purposes of trade, it is evidpntly not in the power of any State to impose any hinderance or embarrassment, &c., upon citizens of other
States, or to place them, on coming there, upon a different

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
BLACK,

J., dissenting-Appendix.

332 U. S.

footing from her own citizens.'- 2 -6 Webster's Works,
112.
"The learned Justice Story declared that-'Thle intention of the clause ("the citizens of each State shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of citizens in the
several States,") was to confer on the citizens of each
State a general citizenship, and communicated all the
privileges and immunities which a citizen of the same
State would be entitled to under the same circumstances.'--Story on the Constitution,vol. 2, page 605.
"Is it not clear that other and different privileges and
immunities than those to which a citizen of a State was
entitled are secured by the provision of the fourteenth
article, that no State shall abridge the privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States, which are defined
in the eight articles of amendment, and which were not
limitations on the power of the States before the fourteenth amendment made them limitations?
"Sir, before the ratification of the fourteenth amendment, the State could deny to any citizen the right of trial
by jury, and it was done. Before that the State could
abridge the freedom of the press, and it was so done in half
of the States of the Union. Before that a State, as in the
case of the State of Illinois, could make it a crime punishable by fine and imprisonment for any citizen within her
limits, in obedience to the injunction of our divite Master,
to help a slave who was ready to perish; to give him shelter, or break with him his crust of bre4d. The validity of
that State restriction upon the rights of conscience and
the duty of life was affirmed, to the shame and disgrace of
America, in the Supreme Court of the United States; but
nevertheless affirmed in obedience to the requirements of
the Constitution. . ..
"Under the Constitution as it is, not as it was, and by
force of the fourteenth amendment, no State hereafter,

BARNES v. ALEXANDER.
232 U. S.

Syllabus.

Land Department was not rested solely upon the fact
that White's formal application was filed a few hours
before that of the trustee for the occupants of the townsite, but rather chiefly upon the priority of the former's
equitable rights. So far as such decision involves questions
of fact it is conclusive upon the courts [citing cases].
And this rule is applied in cases where there is a mixed
question of law and fact, unless the court is able to so
separate the question as to see clearly what and where
the mistake of law is. As said by Mr. Justice Miller in
Marquez v. Frisbie, supra [101 U. S. 473], p. 476: 'This
means, and it is a sound principle, that where there is a
mixed question of law and of fact, and the court cannot
so separate it as to see clearly where the mistake of law is,
the decision of the tribunal to which the law has confided
the matter is conclusive."' And see Moore v. Robbins,
96 U. S.530, 535; Quinby v. Conlan, 104 U. S.420, 426;
Gonzales v. French, 164 U. S.338.
There being no fraud, and no clear mistake of law in
the decision of the Secretary of the Interior, his findings
are conclusive upon the parties in the present controversy.
Judgment affirmed.

BARNES v. ALEXANDER.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
ARIZONA.
No. 109.

Submitted Pecember 1, 1913.-Decided January 12, 1914.

Where the remarks in the opinion are not necessary to the decision,
which was placed mainly on other grounds, and are contrary to an
earlier decision, this court is at least warranted in treating the question as at large.
Although it might be its duty to do so, it would be a strong thing for

