PAINE v. COPPER BELLE MINING CO.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

PAINE v. COPPER-BELLE MINING COMPANY OF
ARIZONA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
ARIZONA.
No. 181.

Submitted January 21, 1914.-Decided March 2, 1914.

The meaning of the arrangement between the parties having been
matter for a finding and had the sanction of both courts below and
the evidence not being reported, this court will not say that such
finding was wrong.
13 Arizona, 406, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Walter Bennett for appellant.
Mr. John B. Wright and Mr. James F. Mack for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action brought by the appellants upon a
promissory note for $265,416.72 made by the appellee.
The defence is want of consideration, and depends upon
the question whether certain payments made by one
Moneuse were made by way of loan or for the purchase of
stock; the note having been issued as for a loan to the
Company. The material facts are few. An earlier company, into the shoes of which the appellee has stepped, was
in bankruptcy, and Moneuse, a stockholder, was suing
certain others for the return to the Company of a large
part of the stock. On June 4, 1903, a compromise was
made, reciting as one ground that the Company owned
mining claims which in the opinion of all the parties were
of great value but which the Company. was in great danger

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

of losing unless money was raised to work them. Moneuse
agreed to 'provide and supply' enough money to 'pay off
and discharge' the Company's debts and to work the
Company's mines for not more than three years until
they paid for working themselves. He was to get the
Company out of bankruptcy and into possession of its
property, subject to certain mortgages. The others were
to get fifty per cent. of the authorized stock into the
treasury and this amount, less what already was held by
Moneuse, the Company was to issue and deliver to him
'inconsideration of the advance by [him] of the moneys
which are to be paid and advanced by him, as above provided for, and without further consideration whatsoever.'
Moneuse also was to have control.
This agreement was carried out and the total disbursements of Moneuse were more than the amount of the note.
Nine months after the compromise, a stockholder's meeting authorized a transfer of the Company's property to
the appellee on the condition among others, that it should
!"assume and discharge the indebtedness of this Company
to Elie J. Moneus "; but on February 29, 1904, the
characterization of the advance as a loan and the portion
of the resolutions quoted were 'withdrawn and rescinded'
at the suggestion and with the concurrence and vote of
Moneuse. Afterwards on July 17, 1907, Moneuse being
still in control of the Company, the note in suit was issued.
The case was tried on behalf of intervening minority
stockholders without a jury. The trial court found for
the defendant, and the judgment was affirmed by the
Supreme Court of the Territory. 13 Arizona, 406.
It cannot be said that the finding was wrong as matter of
law. It is true that the agreement speaks of the money
that was to be furnished by Moneuse as an 'advance' by
him but it was an advance to pay off the Company's
debts not merely to change the creditor. The clause that
throws the clearest light upon-the meaning is the recitation

PAINE v. COPPER BELLE MINING CO.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that the Company's mining claims were of great value in
the opinion of all the parties to the contract. That
being so, it was natural that a stockholder who had the
money should be willing to pay off certain debts (about
$45,000), as a consideration for getting the greater part
of the stock, and should be willing to work the mines for a
time if he had the Company and the duration of the
experiment under his control. It would seem to have
been less natural for the other stockholders to part with
the larger share in the rights they deemed so valuable
simply as a bonus to induce Moneuse to take the former
creditors' place and try his hand at the work. There are
set forth in the statement some facts that we have not
reproduced, because we think it unnecessary in view of
the present position of the case. It is enough to say that
in our opinion the appellants would not profit by a fuller
consideration. The meaning of the arrangement, to which
neither Company was a party, seems to have been matter
for a finding. Rankin v. Fidelity Insurance, Trust & Safe
Deposit Co., 189 U. S. 242, 252, 253; MacDonaldv. Morrill,
154 Massachusetts, 270, 272. The evidence is not reported, and the finding has the sanction of two courts.
There is not enough before us to enable us to say that it
was wrong.
Judgment affirmed.

