OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Counsel for Appellant.

232 U. S.

law clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to forbid the
sale by itinerant vendors of "any drug, nostrum, ointment
or application of any kind intended for the treatment of
disease or injury," although allowing the sale of such
articles by other persons? That it did have such authority
is so clearly the result of a previous ruling of this court
(Emert v. Missouri, 156 U. S. 296), or at all events is so
persuasively made manifest by the authorities cited and
the reasoning which sustained the ruling of the court in
the case just stated, as to leave no room for controversy
on the subject (pp. 306-307). Moreover, the power which
the state Government possessed to classify and regulate
itinerant vendors or peddlers exerted in the statute under
consideration is cumulatively sustaihed and made if possible more obviously lawful by the fact that the regulation
in question deals with the selling by itinerant vendors or
peddlers of drugs or medicinal compounds, objects plainly
within the power of government to regulate.
Affirmed.

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY
RAILROAD COMMISSION OF LOUISIANA.

v.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 186.

Argued January 23, 1914.-Decided February 24, 1914.

Findings of fact concurred in by two lower courts will not be disturbed
by this court unless shown to be clearly erroneous.
192 Fed. Rep. 280, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Thomas J. Freeman for appellant, submitted.

TEX. & PAC. RY. v. LOUISIANA R. R. COMM.
232 U. S.

339

Opinion. of the Court.

Mr. Wylie M. Barrow, with whom Mr. Ruffin Q. Pleasant, Attorney General of the State of Louisiana, was on the
brief, for appellees.
MR. Cf-IEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of

the court.
Appellant, a corporation organized under the laws of
the United States, filed its bill in equity in the Circuit
Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana to restrain
the enforcement of an order of the Louisiana Railroad
Commission fixing rates for the carriage of cotton-seed
and its products, on the ground that the order exceeded
the powers conferred upon the Commission by the state
law, indeed, was so unreasonably low as to be a violation
of the due process clause of the state constitution. After
issue joined the testimony was heard by a special master
who found for complainant. The Circuit Court on exceptions filed by respondents to the master's report after
reviewing the facts gave judgment sustaining the exceptions, setting aside the report and dismissing. the bill on
the ground that the evidence did not support the master's
report-in other words, that the complainant had failed to
prove its case. On appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals
the evidence was again reviewed, and the judgment affirmed. (192 Fed. Rep. 280.) This appeal was then taken.
Both the courts below passed on the facts and agreed
in holding that appellant failed to establish by the evidence its right to the relief demanded, and the rule is
well settled that findings of fact concurred in by two lower
courts will not be disturbed by this court unless shown
to be clearly erroneous. Chicago Junction R. Co. v. King,
222 U. S. 222; Dun v. Lumbermen's Credit Ass'n, 209
U. S. 20. As from an examination of the record we find
no ground for concluding that there was plain error, the
decree must be and is affirmed.
Affirmed.

