OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

232 U. S.

NORTH CAROLINA RAILROAD COMPANY v.
ZACHARY, ADMINISTRATOR OF BURGESS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH

CAROLINA.
No. 144.

Argued December 17, 18, 1913.-Decided February 2, 1914.

In order to bring a case within the terms of the Federal Employers'
Liability Act of 1908, the defendant must have been, at the time
of the occurrence, engaged as a common carrier in interstate commerce and the injured employ6 must have been employed by such
carrier in such commerce.
Where the defendant is a common carrier engaged in interstate commerce and the employ6 for whose injuries the suit i§ brought was
employed by the defendant in such commerce, the Federal Employers' Liability Act of 1908 governs to the exclusion of the state
statutes.
Where the state court improperly refuses to apply the provisions of
the Federal Employers' Liability Act in an action for injuries to an
employ6 of a commori carrier while both employer and employ6 were
engaged in interstate commerce and the result might have been
different, the judgment must be reversed.
The persons related to the deceased employ6 as specified in the Employers' Liability Act of 1908 are the beneficiaries of an action prescribed by the act and the damages are to be based upon the pecuniary loss sustained by such beneficiaries.
Whether the question of employment by the deceased employ6 in
interstate commerce was properly raised in the state court as a bar
to the action in accordance with the local code, is a question of state
practice, and if .the highest court of the State assumed or decided
that the record presented that question and decided it against the
party asserting it, this court has jurisdiction to review the judgment
under § 237, Judicial Code.
A railroad company, leasing its entire line, which is wholly intrastate,
to another railroad company doing an interstate business creates the
latter its agent and becomes a common carrier by railroad engaged
in interstate commerce; and if under the local law the lessor remains
responsible for the lessee's acts; the Employers' Liability Act of 1908

NOR. CAR. R. R. CO. v. ZACHARY.
232 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

controls as to liability for injuries to employs of the lessee engaged
in interstate commerce.
Where, upon the evidence, any essential matter bearing on the question
of whether an employ6 of a railroad company was, at the time of the
injury, engaged in interstate commerce is in doubt, it should be submitted to the jury under proper instructions.
Where the state court refused to submit questions to the jury on the
ground that there was no evidence to sustain the Federal right asserted, this court will analyze the evidence to the extent necessary
to give plaintiff in error the benefit of such Federal right if it was
improperly denied. Southern Pacific Co. v. Schuyler, 227 U. S. 601.
When a freight train for an intrastate point is being made up of cars
including some from a train which started from another State, it is
a reasonable inference that such cars were being carried forward as
a part of a through movement of interstate commerce.
Hauling empty cars from one State to another is interstate commerce
within the meaning of the Employers' Liability Act of 1908.
The Employers' Liability Act is in pari materia with the Safety Appliance Act, and this court, following its rulings in regard to the
latter, holds that the hauling of empty cars from one State to another
is interstate commerce within the meaning of the act. Johnson v.
Southern Pacific Co., 146- U. S.1.
Acts of an employ6 in preparing an engine for a trip to move freight in
interstate commerce, although done prior to the actual coupling up
of the interstate cars, are acts done while engaged in interstate commerce.
Although absent temporarily from his train for a short time for a purpose not inconsistent with his duty to his employer, a railroad employ4 may still be on duty and engaged in interstate commerce
within the meaning of the Employers' Liability Act of 1908.
156 Nor. Car. 496, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the Employers' Liability Act of 1908 and its application to employ6s engaged in hauling interstate cars between intrastate points, and also to the owner of an intrastate railroad
which it has leased to a common carrier engaged in interstate commerce, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. John K. Graves for plaintiff in error:
As the Federal act applies, the judgment must be re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

232 U. S.

versed as the record discloses neither allegation nor proof
of the existence of any beneficiary or beneficiaries designated in the Federal act. Mich. Cent. R. R. Co. v. Vreeland, 227 U. S. 59; Gulf &c. Ry. Co. v. McGinnis, 228 U. S.
173.
The testimony clearly shows that the cars were in the
course of a through interstate journey and were therefore
employed in interstate commerce regardless of whether
they were loaded or empty. Johnson v. Southern Pac.
Co., 196 U. S. 1, 21; Nor. Pac. Ry. Co. v. Maerkl, 198
Fed. Rep. 1; Pedersen v. Del., L. & W. R. Co., 229 U. S.
146.
The preparation of the engine was an interstate service
and the fireman while engaged in that service was employed in interstate commerce. Pedersen v. Del., L. &
W. R. Co., 229 U. S. 146.
For other cases where the act was applied, see St. Louis
&c. Ry. Co. v. Seale, 229 U. S. 156; Neil v. Idaho &c. R.
Co. (Idaho), 125 Pac. Rep. 331, 336; Horton v. Oregon &c.
Co. (Wash.), 130 Pac. Rep. 897; Freeman v. Powell
(Texas), 144 S. W. Rep. 1033; Montgomery v. Southern
Pac. Co. (Oregon), 131 Pac. Rep. 507; Kansas City &c.
Ry. Co. v. Pope (Texas), 152 S. W. Rep. 185.
The pleadings establish the status of the deceased as
employed in his duties as fireman at the time of the accident, especially when it is observed that the action is
brought and sought to be maintained under the so-called
Fellow-servant Act of North Carolina (§ 2646, Nor. Car.
Revisal, 1908), which provides fQr the recovery of damages by an employ6 of any railroad injured or killed in the
course of his services or employment, etc.
Nothing in the evidence tends in any way to throw a
different light upon the status of the deceased at the time
of the accident. If deceased was on duty at the time of the
accident such duty'must be assigned to his employment
as fireman on an engine which was being prepared for a

NOR. CAR. R. R. CO. v. ZACHARY.
232 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

movement in interstate commerce. Second Employers'
Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1.
The deceased's status as a servant on duty having been
established, this status had not been broken nor had it
ceased. Missouri &c. R. Co. v. United States, 231 U. S.
112; Kitchenham v. S. S. Johannesburg,L. R. App. Cases,
1911, p. 417; Philadelphia &c. R. Co. v. Tucker, 35 App.
D. C. 123; Ewald v. Chicago &c. R. Co., 70 Wisconsin, 420;
Boldt v. New York &c. R. Co., 18 N. Y. 432; United States
v. Chicago &c. Ry. Co., 197 Fed. Rep. 624. See also to the
same effect: United States v. Atchison &c. R. Co., 220
U. S. 37; United States v. Denver &c. R. Co., 197 Fed. Rep.
629; United States v. Kansas City Ry. Co., 189 Fed. Rep.
471; United States v. St. Louis &c. R. Co., 189 Fed. Rep.
954.
The situation is not affected by the fact that the lessor
and not the lessee who was operating the railroad is sued.
In enacting the Employers' Liability Act of 1908, Congress undertook to cover the relation of master and servant with respect to injuries or death suffered by the
servant in railroad service when the master and the servant were engaged in interstate commerce. Congress intended to go to the limit of its constitutional power as to
every one in fact occupying the position or relation of
master with respect to injuries to servants employed in
interstate commerce on railroads engaging in interstate
commerce. Colasurdov. Central R. R. Co., 180 Fed. Rep.
832.
This case falls within the scope of the act.
Even assuming that the state court was correct in its
suggestion that the plaintiff in error was not itself engaged
in interstate commerce if § 1 only of the Federal act is
considered, under § 7 the term "common carrier" includes
the receiver or receivers or other persons or corporations
charged with the duty of the management and operation of
the business of a common carrier, and this includes as

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

232 U. S.

lessor the plaintiff in error. Logan v. North CarolinaR.
Co., 116 Nor. Car. 941.
The Federal Employers' Liability Act applies to the
cause of action presented in this case to the exclusion of
the state law.
Mr. Thomas H. Calert, with whom Mr. John A. Barringer and Mr. George S. Bradshaw were on the brief, for
defendant in error:
The North Carolina Railroad Co. is not a common carrier by railroad while engaging in commerce between any
of the several States. Its tracks and property lie wholly
within the State of North Carolina. It is in existence, has
its officers and directors, receives its annial rents from its
lessee, the Southern Railway Company, and distributes
them among its stockholders; but it is not an interstate
carrier within the meaning of the Federal Employers'
Liability Act. While Logan v. RailroadCo., 116 Nor. Car.
941, has held that this lessor is responsible for all acts of
negligence of its lessee, that is because a railroad corporation cannot escape its responsibility by leasing its road.
Plaintiff in error had the right and the opportunity to
make its lessee, the Southern Railway Company, a party
defendant.
On the pleadings, if there had been any evidence tending
to show that the deceased was engaged in interstate service, it would have been the province of the jury to determine that fact.
Under § 527, Revisal of Nor. Car. of 1905, and following
the well-recognized practice in this State, it has been held
in many cases that where the evidence is conflicting, or
different inferences may properly be drawn from the
testimony, it is the duty of the trial judge to submit the
questions of fact to the jury. Marks v. Cotton Mills, 138
Nor. Car. 401; Ramsbottom v. Railroad Co., 138 Nor. Car.
38; Stewart v. RailroadCo., 137 Nor. Car. 687.

NOR. CAR. R. R. CO. v. ZACHARY.
232 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

And it is for the jury to pass upon the credibility which
should be given to the testimony of a witness. Manufacturing Co. v. Railroad Co., 128 Nor. Car. 285; Halton
v. Railroad Co., 127 Nor. Car. 255; Cox v. Railroad Co.,
123 Nor. Car. 604. See also Bolden v. Railroad Co., 123
Nor. Car. 614; Simonton v. Winter, 5 Pet. 141.
There was not sufficient evidence to submit to the jury
the question whether or not the deceased was engaged in
interstate commerce.
As the plaintiff in error raised the question in the answer whether or not the deceased: at the time he was
killed, was engaged in interstate commerce, it devolved
upon it to show clearly that the deceased was so engaged.
At the time he was killed the deceased had left the engine and was going across the main line and the tracks
in the yard toward his boarding-house.
His service at the time of his death would not be
changed to an interstate service by evidence that subsequently interstate freight was put on the train.
As to why the original act of 1906 was held to be invalid,
see Employers' Liability Cases, 207 U. S. 463.
It is not sufficient that the employ6 should at times have
been engaged in interstate commerce, but the act of 1908
particularly declares that the injury or death must have
been caused while he was employed by such carrier in such
commerce.
The prayers for instruction, being predicated on a state
of facts upon which there was not sufficient evidence to
submit the question to the jury, were properly refused.
Stewart v. Carpet Co., 138 Nor. Car. 60; Stewart v. Railroad
Co., 136 Nor. Car. 385; Bryan v. Railroad Co., 134 Nor.
Car. 538; Joines v. Johnson, 133 Nor. Car. 487; Trust Co.
v. Benbow, 131 Nor. Car. 413; Burton v. Mfg. Co., 132
Nor. Car. 17; Carson v. Railroad Co., 128 Nor. Car. 95.
If the plaintiff desired to insist on its further defense
that the deceased was engaged in interstate commerce,

OCTOBER TERM. 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

it was its duty to tender an issue on which that fact could
properly be inquired into. Code of Civ. Proc., Revisal of
1905, §§ 545, 546. And see also Revisal of 1905, §§ 503,
548, as construed in Manufacturing Co. v. Cloer, 140 Nor.
Car. 128; Pollock v. Warwick, 104 Nor. Car. 638; Mining
Co. v. Smelting Co., 99 Nor. Car. 445; Oakley v. Van
Noppen, 95 Nor. Car. 60; Simmons v. Mann, 92 Nor. Car.
12; Piedmont Wagon Co. v. Byrd, 119 Nor. Car. 460;
Womble v. Grocery Co., 135 Nor. Car. 474; Walker v.
Scott, 106 Nor. Car. 56; Baltimore &c. R. Co. v. Darr, 204
'Fed. Rep. 751.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

delivered the opinion of the court..

This action was brought in the Superior Court of Guilford
County, North Carolina, to recover damages for the negligent killing of Burgess, a locomotive fireman in the employ
of the Southern Railway Company, lessee of the defendant, which occurred at Selma, North Carolina, on April 29,
1909. Under the local law, as laid down in Logan v.
Railroad, 116 Nor. Car. 940, the lessor is responsible
for all acts of negligence of its lessee occurring in the conduct of business upon the lessor's road; and this upon the
ground that a railroad corporation cannot evade its public
duty and responsibility by leasing its road to another
corporation, in the absence of a statute expressly exempting it. The responsibility is held to extend to employ~s of
the lessee, injured through the negligence of the latter.
The complaint set forth in substance that plaintiff's
intestate, being in the employ of defendant's lessee, and
engaged at the Selma switchyards in the discharge of his
duties as fireman upon Engine No. 862, about eight
o'clock, p. m., on the date mentioned, after inspecting,
oiling, firing, and preparing the engine for starting on a
trip from Selma to Spencer, N. C., attempted to cross certain tracks that intervened between the engine and his

NOR. CAR. R. R. CO. v. ZACHARY.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

boarding-house, which was located a short distance away;
that another engine, No. 716, was standing upon a sidetrack in such position as to shut off intestate's view of the
main track; that No. 716 had its blower on, and was
making a noise so loud that intestate could not hear a
third engine-No. 1551, the shifting engine used in the
yards-which at this time was running backward at a
reckless and dangerous rate of speed, without headlight
and without an adequate and competent crew; and that as
intestate stepped from the track in the rear of Engine
No. 716 and was about to step upon the main line in the
attempt to cross it, he was struck and killed by the shifting
engine. Defendant's answer, besides denying the allegations of negligence, set up as a special defense that at the
time plaintiff's intestate was killed, he was engaged in
interstate commerce as an employ6 upon a train of defendant's lessee which was moving from Selma, North
Carolina, to Spencer, in the same State, and carrying cars
loaded with freight from the State of Virginia to the State
of North Carolina and other States; that the liability of
ihe defendant to him or to the plaintiff as his representative was fixed and regulated by the Federal Employers'
Liability Act of April 22, 1908; and that under that act
the plaintiff was not entitled to recover.
Upon the trial, at the close of plaintiff's evidence, which
tended generally to support the averments of the complaint, defendant moved for a non-suit, and among other
grounds assigned the following :-that from the uncontradicted evidence it appeared that at the time of the'
occurrence in question defendant, through its lessee, was
a common carrier by railroad engaged in interstate commerce, and plaintiff's intestate was at that time a person
employed by such carrier in such commerce; that the
act of Congress already referred to exclusively regulated
the liability of defendant to plaintiff's intestate, and that
upon all the evidence plaintiff had failed to make out a

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

case of liability under that act. The court, in denying the
motion, held that the action was brought under the
statute of North' Carolina, that the Federal act had no
application, and that the cause was triable under the
statutes of the State. To this ruling, defendant excepted.
At the close of the case, defendant again undertook to
invoke the protection of the Federal act by requested
instructions to the jury, which were refused and exceptions
allowed.
There was a verdict for plaintiff and judgment thereon,
followed by an appeal to the Supreme Court of the State.
That court overruled the contention of defendant that the
Federal Employers' Liability Act of April 22, 1908,
applied, and held that the action was properly tried under
the state law. The result was an affirmance, 156 Nor.
Car. 496, and the case comes here under § 709 Rev.
Stat. (Jud. Code, § 237).
In order to bring the case within the terms of the
Federal act (35 Stat. 65, c. 149, printed in full in 223
U. S., p. 6), defendant must have been, at the time of the
occurrence in question, engaged as a common carrier in
interstate commerce, and plaintiff's intestate must have
been employed by said carrier in such commerce. If these
facts appeared, the Federal act governed, to the exclusion
.of the statutes of the State. Second Employers' Liability
Cases (Mondou v. New York &c. Railroad Co.), 223 U. S.
1, 55; St. Louis & San FranciscoRy. v. Seale, 229 U. S. 156,
158.
It is not disputed that if the provisions of the Federal
act had been applied, the result of the action might have
been different. To mention only one matter: there was
neither averment in the pleadings nor evidence at the'
trial that deceased left a widow, child, parent, or dependent next of kin. Persons thus related to deceased are the
respective beneficiaries of the action prescribed by the
act of Congress, and the damages are to be based upon the

NOR. CAR. R. R. CO. v. ZACHARY.

232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

pecuniary loss sustained by the beneficiary. Michigan
Central R. R. v. Vreeland, 227 U. S. 59, 68; Gulf, Colorado
&c. Ry. Co. v. McGinnis, 228 U. S. 173. The state law
(Revisal 1908, § 2646) seems not to recognize this limitation upon the measure of recovery; certainly the damages
in the present case were assessed without regard to it.
In support of the judgment, it is earnestly argued that
the question whether deceased was employed in interstate
commerce was not properly raised in the trial court in
accordance with the pertinent provisions of the local
Code of Civil Procedure. But this is a question of state
practice; and since it appears that defendant expressly
claimed immunity by reason of the act of Congress, and
the highest court of the State either decided or assumed
that the record sufficiently presented a question of Federal
right and decided against the party asserting that right,
the decisions of this court render it clear that it is our duty
to pass upon the merits of the Federal question. Home
for Incurables v. City of New York, 187 U. S. 155, 157;
Land & Water Co. v. San Jose Ranch Co., 189 U. S. 177,
179; Haire v. Rice, 204 U. S. 291, 299; Chambers v. Balt. &
Ohio R; R., 207 U. S. 142, 148; Miedreich v. Lauenstein,
decided this day, ante, p. 236.
The court based its decision that the Federal act did not
apply, in part upon the ground that the North Carolina
Railroad is not an interstate railroad-its tracks and
property lying wholly within the State-and that the
corporation itself is not, although its lessee is, engaged in
interstate commerce; the lessor's activities being confined
to receiving annual rents and distributing them among its
stockholders. The responsibility of the lessor for all acts
of negligence of the lessee occurring in the conduct of
business on the lessor's road, as established by the same
court in Logan v. Railroad, 116 Nor. Car. 940, was recognized-indeed reasserted. "But," it was said, "that is
because a railroad corporation cannot escape its responVOL? ccxxxii-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

sibility by leasing its road. It is still liable for its lessee's
acts of commission and omission, whether they occur in
interstate or intrastate commerce, although the lessor
is not actually engaged in either." 156 Nor. Car. 500.
It is plain enough, however, that the effect of the rule
thus laid down, especially in view of the grounds upon
which it is based, is, that -although a railroad lease as
between the parties may have the force-and effect of an
ordinary lease, yet with respect to the railroad operations
conducted under it, and everything that relates to the
performance of the public duties assumed by the lessor
under its charter, such a lease-certainly so far as concerns
the rights of third parties, including employ6s as well as
patrons-constitutes the lessee the lessor's substitute or
agent, so that for whatever the lessee does or fails to do,
whether in interstate or in intrastate commerce, the lessor
is responsible. This being the legal situation under the
local law, it seems to us that it must and does result, in
the case before us, that the lessor is a "common carrier
by railroad engaging in commerce between the States,"
and that the deceased was "employed by such carrier in
such commerce," within the meaning of the Federal act;
provided, of course, he was employed by the lessee in such
commerce at the time he was killed.
It was, however, further held by the Supreme Court of
North Carolina that deceased, at the time he was killed,
was not in fact employed by the Southern Railway, the
lessee; in interstate commerce. There are several grounds
upon which this decision was based, or upon which it is
said to be supportable; and these will be separately
noticed. Of course, if upon the evidence any essential
matter of fact was in doubt, it should have been submitted
to the jury under proper instructions. The rulings of the
trial court deprived plaintiff in error of the opportunity
to go to the jury upon the question. But it is now insisted that there was no evidence tending to show that

NOR. CAR. R. R. CO. v. ZACHARY.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court,

deceased was engaged in interstate commerce. This
renders it incumbent upon us to analyze the evidence to
the extent necessary to give to plaintiff in error the benefit
of its asserted Federal right. Southern Paciftc Co. v.
Schuyler, 227 U. S. 601, 611, and cases cited.
The evidence tended to show that Train No. 72 of the
Southern Railway had come in to Selma, N. C., from
Pinners Point, Va., and other places, and that a shifting
crew was "working" this train so as to take two cars from
it and put them into a train that was to include these and
other cars to be hauled from Selma to Spencer, N. C., by
Engine No. 862, and that deceased was employed on this
engine as fireman for the. trip that was about to begin, and
had already prepared his engine for the purpose. It is
contended that the evidence failed to show that the two
cars thus taken from Train No. 72 had come in from
Virginia, rather than from the "other places," which it
is said might be intermediate North Carolina points.
We find, however, evidence that the train which was to be
hauled from Selma to Spencer by Engine No. 862, was
being made up in part from cars that had come in from
Pinners Point; and it was at least a reasonable inference
that the two cars referred to were being put into the
Spencer train in order to be carried forward as a part of a
through movement of interstate commerce.
There seems to be no clear evidence as to the contents
of these cars, and it is argued that, in the absence of evidence, it is as reasonable to infer that they were empty
as that they were loaded; and that it was incumbent upon
defendant to show that they contained interstate freight.
We hardly deem it so probable that empty freight cars
would be hauled from the Virginia point to Spencer. But
were it so, the hauling of empty cars from one State to
another is, in our opinion, interstate commerce within the
meaning of the act. Such is the view 'hat has obtained
with respect to empty cars in actions based upon the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

Safety Appliance Act of March 2, 1893 (27 Stat. 531,
c. 196). Johnson v. Southern Pacific Co., 196 U. S. 1, 21;
Voelker v. Railway Co., 116 Fed. Rep. 867, 873. And the
like reason applies, as we think, to actions founded upon
the Employers' Liability Act, which, indeed, is in pari
materia with the other.
It is argued that because, so far as appears, deceased
had not previously participated in any movement of
interstate freight, and the through cars had not as yet
been attached to his engine, his employment in interstate
commerce was still in futuro. It seems to us, however,
that his acts in inspecting, oiling, firing, and preparing
his engine for the trip to Selma were acts performed as a
part of interstate commerce, and the circumstance that
the interstate freight cars had not as yet been coupled up
is legally insignificant. See Pederson v. Del., Lack. &
Western R. Co., 229 U. S. 146, 151; St. Louis & San Francisco Ry. v. Seale, 229 U. S. 156, 161.
Again, it is said that because deceased had left his
engine and was going to his boarding-house, he was engaged upon a personal errand, and not upon the carrier's
business. Assuming (what is not clear) that the evidence
fairly tended to indicate the boarding-house as his destination, it nevertheless also appears that deceased was
shortly to depart upon his run, having just prepared his
engine for the purpose, and that he had not gone beyond
the limits of the railroad yard when he was struck. There
is nothing to indicate that this brief visit to the boardinghouse was at all out of the ordinary, or was inconsistent
with his duty to his employer. It seems to us clear that
the man was still "on duty," and employed in commerce,
notwithstanding his temporary absence from the locomotive engine. See Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry. Co. v.
United States, 231 U. S. 112, 119.
We conclude that with respect to the facts necessary
to bring the case within the Federal act, there was evi-

BILLINGS v. UNITED STATES.
232 U. S.

Syllabus.

dence that at least was sufficient to go to the jury.

It is

doubtful whether there was substantial contradiction respecting any of these facts; but this we need not consider.
From what has been said, it follows that the state
courts erred in holding that the Federal act had no application. As the case stands, we are not called upon to deter-

mine the validity of the several contentions that were
raised by defendant at the trial on the strength of that
act, nor to pass upon the mode in which they were raised.
Upon these matters, therefore, we express no opinion.
Judgment reversed, and the cause remanded for further

proceedingsnot inconsistentwith this opinion.

BILLINGS v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

UNITED STATES v. BILLINGS.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND CIRCUIT.
Nos. 66 and 625. Argued January 6, 7, 1914.-Decided February 24, 1914.
The jurisdiction of this court on direct writ of error is not confined to
the constitutional questions, but embraces every issue in the case.
Williamson v. United States, 207 U. S. 425.
The Circuit Court of Appeals has no power to ask instructions upon an
issue which it has no right to decide, nor has this court authority to
instruct on such a subject.
This court cannot refuse to decide questions which are properly before
it for judgment.
Where one party has taken a writ of error direct from this court to the
Circuit Court based on the constitutional question decided against

