WILSON v. UNITED STATES.
232 U. S.

Syllabus.

WILSON, ALIAS CHARLES WILLARD, v. UNITED
STATES.
WILSON, ALIAS ZOE WILLARD, v. UNITED
STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Nos. 168, 169. Submitted October 23, 1913.-Decided February 24,
1914.
The White-Slave Act of June 25, 1910, has been sustained as constitutional. Hoke v. United States, 227 U. S. 308.
Although the constitutional question on which a case has been brought
to this court on direct writ of error has been decided since the writ
of error was sued out, this court must retain jurisdiction for the
purpose of passing upon the other questions in the record.
Under the White-Slave Act the prohibition is not in terms confined to
transportation by common carrier, nor need such a limitation be
implied in order to sustain the constitutionality of the act.
The White-Slave Act has the quality of a police regulation although
enacted in the exercise of the power to regulate interstate commerce,
and it is wholly within the power of Congress to determine whether
the prohibition should extend to transportation by others than
common carriers.
The agency of one employed to bring prostitutes from one State to
another without definite instructions includes power to decide upon
the mode and route of transportation.
The cross-examination of a defendant in regard to taking morphine
held in this case to be proper as it relatedknot to general character,
but to the condition of the witness at the moment.
Cross-examination as to the domestic difficulties of one of two defendants married to each other held in this case to have been material in
order to corroborate the evidence of an accomplice and in other respects relevant to the testimony in chief.
Cross-examination of a defendant in a white slave case in regard to
payments made to police officers held in this case to have been corn-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

232 U. S.

petent and material to show the character of the house occupied by
defendants.
In this case held that the charge of the trial court in regard to presumptions of innocence of the accused and their right to acquittal in case
of reasonable doubt was sufficiently favorable to the accused.
The offense under the White-Slave Act is complete when the transportation in interstate commerce has been accomplished. There
is no locus poenitentim thereafter.

THE facts, which involve the validity of convictions
and sentences under the White-Slave Act, are stated in
the opinion.
Mr. Elijah N. Zoline for plaintiffs in error:
There was no evidence supporting allegations in the
indictment. It was error to subject the defendant Catherine Wilson to the cross-examination as to wlether she is
addicted to the use of drugs. There was error in the crossexamination of same defendant as to her domestic relations. There was error in permitting cross-examination of
the defendant Charles Wilson upon entries relating to
payment of money' to certain police officers. There was
error in instructing the jury on presumption of innocence
and reasonable doubt. There was error in excluding from
charge to jury the principle of locus poenitentie. There
was error in instructing the jury as to the weight of the
evidence.
In support of these contentions, see Atwood v. Impson,
20 N. J. Eq. 157; Brown v. State, 16 S. W. Rep. (Miss.)
202; Bucklin v. State, 20 Oh. St. 18; Burt v. State, 16 S. W.
Rep. (Miss.) 342; Burton v. United States, 196 U. S. 283;
Coffin v. United States, 156 U. S. 432; Commonwealth v.
Churchill, 11 Met. 538; Commonwealth v. Webster, 5 Cush.
295; Cox v. People, 82 Illinois, 191; Dimick v. Downs, 82
Illinois, 570; Frazierv. State, 117 Tennessee, 430; Gilchristv.
M'Kee, 4 Watts, 380; Hoke v. United States, 227 U. S. 308;
Homer v. United States, 143 U. S. 570; Johnson v. State,

WILSON v. UNITED STATES.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

16 So. Rep. (Miss.) 494; Keek v. United States, 172 U. S.
445; Kolb v. Union Railroad Co., 54 L. R. A. 646; Metze v.
Tuteur, 77 Wisconsin, 243; Miles v. United States, 113
U. S. 304; Moore v. Moore, 73 Texas, 382; People v. Murray, 14 California, 159; People v. Undung, 108 California,
83; Pinkard v. State, 30 Georgia, 757; Railroad Co. v.
Gower, 85 Tennessee, 473; Rudsdill v. Slingerland, 18
Minnesota, 380; Spears v. Forrest, 15 Vermont, 437;
Stabler v. Commonwealth, 95 Pa. St. 318; State v. Butler,
26 W. Va. 90; State v. Carson, 66 Maine, 116; State v.
Hurley, 79 Vermont, 28; State v. King, 88 Minnesota, 175;
State v. Smith, 7 Vermont, 141; Stephens v. State, 107
Indiana, 185; Thompson v. People, 96 Illinois, 158; Williamson v. United States, 207 U. S. 425; United States v.
Stephens, 8 Sawy. 116; Rapalje on Witnesses, § 197;
Thompson, Trials, §§ 524, 525; Wharton, Ev., 3d ed.,
§ 541; Wharton, Crim. Law (9th ed.), § 187.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Denison for the United
States.
Mr. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes here upon two separate writs of error
allowed upon the same record, to review judgments of
the District Court imposing fine and imprisonment upon
each of the plaintiffs in error, upon their conviction on an
indictment founded upon the act of Congress of June 25,
1910, commonly known as the White-Slave Act (36 Stat.
825, c. 395).
The case was brought directly to this court, because
the constitutionality of the statute was drawn in question.
This question has since been settled adversely to plaintiffs
in error. Hoke v. United States, 227 U. S. 308. Nevertheless, we must retain jurisdiction for the purpose of
passing upon the other questions in the record. Homer

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

v. United States, 143 U. S. 570, 576; Burton v. United
States, 196 U. S.-283, 295; Williamson v. United States,
207 U. S. 425, 432.
There were numerous counts in the indictment, and a
general verdict of guilty. The substance of the charge
was that defendants caused and procured two girls to be
transported in interstate commerce from Milwaukee,
Wisconsin, to Chicago, Illinois, for the purpose of prostitution. There was also a count charging a conspiracy
to commit the same offense. The theory of the Government, sufficiently stated in the indictment and supported
by evidence at the trial, was that in pursuance of an understanding between defendants and a man named Corder,
they gave him eleven dollars in money, with instructions
to proceed from Chicago to Milwaukee, induce one or
both of the girls to return with him to Chicago, paying
their transportation and other expenses out of the eleven
dollars, and bring them to a house of prostitution in the
latter city kept by the defendants; and that Corder carried
out these instructions to the letter, bringing both girls over
an interstate electric railway line and escorting them to
defendants' house for the purpose of prostitution.
Of the questions of law that are raised, only the following seem to require mention:
1. It is insisted that the offense was not fully proved
because there was nothing to show that defendants either
directed or knew how the girls were to come from Milwaukee to Chicago, whether in a private vehicle or through
the instrumentality of a common carrier. But, in our
opinion, in order to constitute an offense under the act
it is not essential that the transportation be by common
carrier. The statute reads: "That any person who shall
knowingly transport or cause to be transported, or aid or
assist in obtaining transportation for, or in transporting,
in interstate or foreign commerce,
.
any woman
or girl for the purpose of prostitution or debauchery, or

WILSON v. UNITED STATES.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

.
or who shall
for any other immoral purpose, .
knowingly procure or obtain, or cause to be procured or
obtained, or aid or assist in procuring or obtaining, any
ticket or tickets, or any form of transportation or evidence
of the right thereto, to be used by any woman or girl in
.
.
in going to
interstate or foreign commerce,
any place for the purpose of prostitution or debauchery,
or for any other immoral purpose, . . . whereby
any such woman or girl shall be transported in interstate
or foreign commerce,
.
. shall be deemed guilty
of a felony," etc.
The prohibition is not in terms confined to transportation by common carrier, nor need such a limitation be
implied in order to sustain the constitutionality of the enactment. As has already been decided, it has the quality of
a police regulation, although enacted in the exercise of the
power to regulate interstate commerce (Hoke v. United
States, 227 U. S. 308, 323; Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S. 196, 215); and since this power is complete
in itself, it was discretionary with Congress whether the
prohibition should be extended to transportation by others
than common carriers.
The contention that defendants were not within the
prohibition of the act because they did not control or
instruct Corder in the choice of means of conveyance is
not worthy of serious consideration. According to the
Government's evidence, Corder was employed by defendants as their agent, and furnished by them with money
sufficient for the expenses of the transportation, but without definite instructions as to what mode should be employed. A natural inference was that he should decide
upon the mode and select the route; and that such selection was within the scope of his agency.
2. The female defendant offered herself as a witness,
and in the course of her cross-examination was asked
whether she was addicted to the use of morphine. Having

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

admitted this, and stated that she had last used it before
coming into the court room that morning at ten o'clock,
she was asked how often she used it, and whether she had
with her the "implements" with which to "take the dose."
She replied in the affirmative. This line of examination
was excepted to, and is assigned for error on the ground
that she had not put her character at issue. But as we
read the record, the evidence was not offered or admitted
for its bearing upon her character, but rather to show
that she was so much addicted to the use of the drug that
the question whether at the moment of testifying she was
under its influence, or had recovered from the effects
of its last administration, had a material bearing upon
her rdiability as a witness. It seems to us that in this
aspect the evidence was admissible. People v. Webster,
139 N. Y. 73, 87; State v. White, 10 Washington, 611, 613.
3. Error is assigned upon certain rulings of the trial
court permitting cross-examination of the same witness,
tending to show that she and the other defendant lived
unhappily as husband and wife, were occasionally separated, and (as is said) that they at times indulged in the
use of pistols. No evidence was in fact offered or admitted
tending to show that weapons had been used, if we except.
an obscure allusion to "pistols" in a letter that had been
written by a person in New York City to the female
defendant in Chicago. The use made of this letter was
permissible for other reasons. The evidence as to the
quarrels and separation was plainly admissible. The
Government's case depended mainly upon the testimony
of Corder. He appeared to have been an accomplice,
hence circumstantial corroboration of his story was especially material. He had testified that Mrs. Wilson
asked him to go to Milwaukee for the purpose of getting
the two girls, and had mentioned as a circumstance that
this conversation took place at the Union Depot in
Chicago, where he had met Mrs. Wilson at her. request

WILSON v. UNITED STATES.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to aid her in a search for her husband. On her direct
examination, she flatly denied this, saying: "I did not
take him and he never accompanied me on any trip to
hunt for Mr. Wilson; I always knew where Mr. Wilson
was." The cross-examination under consideration was
entirely relevant to this part of the testimony in chief.
4. It is assigned for error that the court permitted the
Government to cross-examine the defendant, Charles
Wilson, respecting entries made by him and his wife in
their books of account, showing payments of money to
certain police officers, and indicating friendly relations,
if not co6peration, between defendants, as keepers of a
house of prostitution, and members of the police force.
This was not objected to as exceeding the limits of proper
cross-examination, but only as being "incompetent,
irrelevant and immaterial." We think it was admissible
as tending to show the character of the house, and as
tending to rebut evidence previously introduced by the
defense to the effect that Mrs. Wilson had refused to
harbor the girls for fear of police interference.
5. Error is assigned upon the instructions of the trial
court to the jury respecting the presumption of innocence, and the definition of reasonable doubt. Counsel
for defendants preferred no request upon either subject
previous to the delivery of the charge. The court instructed the jury in substance that the arrest of defendants,
their indictment by the grand jury, and their arraignment,
were no evidence whatever of their guilt; that the presumption of innocence meant that at the beginning of the
trial they were as innocent of the charges as any man in
the jury-box; that this presumption continued to abide
with the defendants as a complete protection, unless and
until it gave way because inconsistent with the existence
of a situation proved by the evidence in the case beyond
all reasonable doubt; that by that [reasonable doubt] was
meant, not the frame of mind of a man endeavoring to

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

find a way out for somebody accused of crime, not a mere
capricious doubt, not a frame of mind suggested by something occurring in the trial of the case or in the argument

of counsel not based on evidence in the case; but that
"reasonable doubt is that frame of mind which forbids
you to say, all the evidence considered and weighed, 'I
have an abiding conviction of the defendants' guilt,' or as
it has been expressed, 'I am convinced of the defendants'
guilt to a moral certainty.' If you can say that you have
such a conviction, then you have no reasonable doubt,
and your verdict should be guilty. On the contrary, if
that is your frame of mind, if you are in the frame of mind
where if it was a matter of importance to you in your own
affairs, away from here, you would pause and hesitate,
before acting, then you have a reasonable doubt." At the
conclusion of the charge counsel for defendants said:
"I should like that the court say a little more on the
reasonable doubt, as I believe it was limited only to a
moral certainty. That is the only sentence I heard about
that." The argument here is that the instruction as
given is faulty, because the court did not tell the jury that
the Government must prove its case against defendants
beyond a reasonable doubt. As we read the charge, it
meant nothing less than that,-and was sufficiently favorable to defendants. Miles v. United States, 103 U. S.
304, 309, 312; Hopt v. Utah, 120 U. S. 430, 439, 440;
Dunbar v. United States, 156 U. S. 185, 199; Coffin v.
United States, 166 U. S. 432, 460; Cochran v. United
States, 157 U. S. 286, 299; Davis v. United States, 160
U. S. 469, 487; Allen v. United States, 164 U. S. 492, 500:
Dunlop v. United States, 165 U. S. 486, 502.
6. Error is assigned because the court refused to charge
the jury, as requested, to the effect that if they should
believe from the evidence that defendants, after the girls
came to Chicago from Milwaukee, refused to accept them,
and voluntarily abandoned their evil intention and re-

WEINMAN
232 U. S.

V. DE

PALMA.

Syllabus.

fused to carry out the illegal purpose, no *offense against
the laws of the United States'was committed. It is argued
that the end and object of the act is to prevent immorality
and trafficking in girls, and not the mere act of transportation. But we think that by the plain language of the

statute, the offense is complete when "any such woman or
girl shall be transported in interstate or foreign commerce,
or in any Territory or the District of Columbia" as a
result of any of the criminal acts previously described.
The suggestion that the law contemplates a locus pwnitentias for defendant, after the journey is ended and tjie
woman or girl has been brought to the intended destination within the walls of a house of prostitution, is obviously untenable.
We find no error in the record.

Judgments affirmed.

WEINMAN v. DE PALMA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF NEW
MEXICO.
No. 173.

Argued January 20, 1914.-Decided February 24, 1914.

Where the owner of demised premises makes a contract with an adjoining owner for construction of a party wall, which contract cannot
be carried out according to its terms without entry upon the demised premises and undermining the tenant's wall, and the adjoining
owner, or his servants, in performing the contract commit such a
trespass upon the tenant's possession and undermine the wall, the
contract is evidential of a command or approval of the trespass by
the landlord, such as to render him liable severally, or jointly with
the adjoining owner, in an action by the tenant for the resulting
damages.
Where a trespass results in the destruction of a building with consequent interruption of a going business, the loss of future profits-

