ATCHISON RAILWAY CO. v. UNITED STATES.
232 U. S.

199

Syllabus.

ATCHISON, TOPEKA & SANTA FE RAILWAY
COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES COMMERCE COURT.
No. 590. Argued December 1, 2, 1913.-Decided. January 26, 1914.
Whatever transpoftation service or facility the law requires the carriers
to supply they have the right to furnish.
Under § 15 of the Act to Regulate Commerce, as amended by the
Hepburn Act, the carrier has not only the duty but the right to furnish. all ice needed in refrigeration.
A carrier cannot be compelled to keep facilities for the benefit of shippers and the shippers allowed to furnish these facilities themselves.
The carrier cannot compel a shipper of fruit to have it refrigerated.
When ice is actually needed and used in transportation of fruit, it depends upon the circumstances of each case whether the icing is a
part of preparation which can. be done by the shipper or part of
refrigeration which the carrier has the exclusive right to furnish.
Neither the carrier nor the shipper can insist upon wasteful or expensive
service in transportation for which the consumer must ultimately
pay. In this regard the court will consider the interests of the public.
Loading the car, by whomsoever done, must be such as to prepare the
- freight for shipment, and a consignor may, in the absence of a regularly filed tariff covering this work, not only put perishable freight,
such as fruit, in a car placed at his warehouse, but may do all other
acts, including icing, necessary to fit the fruit for shipment and filling
bunkers in the car with ice for its preservation.
Filing a tariff withdrawing a privilege to shippers affects a practice and
a rule within the meaning of the Act to Regulate Commerce, and the
Commission has power under § 15, as amended by the Hepburn Act,
to determine after a hearing whether the new rate is unreasonable
and if so what is just, and require the carrier to conform to the rates
and practice presoribed by it.
An order of the Commission fixing carload rates apparently excluding
any compensation for hauling the ice necessary for refrigerating, is
not confiscatory when it appears that the rate for the fruit itself
practically includes the rate for the ice.
In a suit based entirely on reasonableness of carload rates the issue of
whether it discriminates against shippers of small lots will not be

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

232 U. S.

considered when that issue is not presented on any assignment of
error in this court.
What are proper rates for transportation and fair charges for facilities
furnished and services rendered, and differences between carload
and less than carload lots, are all rate-making matters committed
to the Commission and within its discretion.
The courts have no power to fix rates or establish practices and cannot
interfere with those fixed and established by the Commission except
in cases where the orders are void. Interstate Commerce Commission
v. Un. Pac. R. R. Co., 222 U. S. 547.
204 Fed. Rep. 647, affirmed.

IN 1909, Associations, representing California fruitgrowers, filed with the Commerce Commission complaints
against numerous railroad companies attacking the freight
and refrigeration charges on citrus fruit shipped from
California to Eastern points. Much testimonywas taken,
from which it appeared that the orange crop amounted
to about 50,000 cars per annum, of which the 20,000,
shipped in warm weather, required some form of refrigeration in order to keep the fruit in condition for use at the
end of the journey. At the close of the first hearing
June 11, 1910, the Commission held (19 I. C. C. 148) that
$1.15 per cwt. was a reasonable freight-rate on oranges.
Other questions in the case were postponed until January 14, 1911, when the Commission made a report (20
I. C. C. 106) as to the reasonableness of the carriers'
charges of $62.50 per car for refrigeration and $30 for
services in shipments pre-cooled by the consignor.
The Commission found that in refrigeration by the
carriers they furnished all the ice and performed all of the
services, including re-icing en route. It found that there
was a total of about 11 tons of ice furnished, but owing
to the melting the average weight of ice hauled was 8,000
lbs., the freight on which to Chicago, was .25 per 100.
It cost something to repair the bunkers, and the Commission recognized the right to include an additional sum
to cover risk and profit.

.ATCHISON RAILWAY CO. v. UNITED STATES.
232 U. S.

201

Statement of the Case.

The total revenue of $345.30 from such shipments was
made up of the following items:
Freight on 27,200 lbs. of oranges @ $1.15... $312.80
Cost of 11 tons of ice ................
$30.
Freight on 8,000 lbs. average weight of
ice hauled @ .25 ...................
20.
Damage to bunkers ..................
5.
Sum to cover risk and profit ..........
7.50
62.50
Gross Receipt ............................
Less cost of ice ..........................

$375.30
30.00

Freight and refrigeration charges ...........
$345.30
The Commission found that the charge of $62.50 for
refrigeration services-was reasonable.
It further appeared that the Government had conducted
certain experiments with a view of determining whether
an advantage would not be derived from pre-cooling the
fruit before the bunkers were filled with ice. There was
testimony that the carriers had reached the conclusion
that if the fruit was pre-cooled before the movement of
the car began, there would be a corresponding saving in
the amount of ice needed in the bunkers. They accordingly had erected plants at which the fruit could be precooled and included such pre-cooling service in the regular
refrigeration charge of $62.50.
Certain shippers claimed that better results were obtained where the fruit was pre-cooled immediately after
it was taken from the grove and before it was placed in the
car. They therefore adopted a method in which the
shipper chills the fruit, cools the car, furnishes the ice
and fills the bunkers at a cost to himself of $32.50. The
carrier for its services in connection with hauling such
pre-cooled shipment charged $30, intending thereby to
make the rates on pre-cooled fruits the same, whether the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

232 U. S.

pre-cooling was by the shipper or the carrier. In determining whether this $30 was a reasonable charge for service rendered by the carrier in hauling fruit pre-cooled by
the shipper, the Commission said (20 I. C. C. 120) that
no re-icing was necessary en route and that "it would be a
liberal estimate to put the average weight of the ice during
the entire journey at 5,000 lbs. For the hauling of this ice
the carriers are entitled to fair compensation, as they are
in the case of Standard Refrigeration." There is also
an "expense in providing and keeping in repair the ice
bunkers. . . . The carrier is, therefore, entitled to
this additional cost, which is about $5 per car per trip
one way." (20 I. C. C. 120.)
Where the fruit is pre-cooled by the shipper, the boxes
are packed so much closer together that the load is onesixth greater than in case of shipments pre-cooled and
refrigerated by the carrier. The result is that the revenue
from a car of fruit pre-cooled by the shipper would beFreight on 33,000 lbs. of oranges at $1.15 ...... $379.50
12.50
Freight on 5,000 lbs. of ice at 25 cents per hundred
7.50
Damage to bunkers (and profit allowed?) .......
$399.50
or, $54 more than the revenue of $345.30 from a car precooled and refrigerated by the carrier.
The Commission further said: "As bearing upon the
reasonableness of the rate, the carriers showed the cost
of the movement of these oranges per gross ton-that is,
per ton of combined weight of car and of contents as compared with other articles-claiming that this was the true
basis upon which to fix rates. So treating these pre-cooled
shipments, it will be found that the carrier receives more
per gross ton for handling the pre-cooled car than for
either the -ventilated or the refrigerated shipment. By
every canon of rate-making which has been applied by
carriers in the. past, or which is relied upon by them now,

ATCHISON RAILWAY CO. v. UNITED STATES.
232 U. S.

203

Statement of the Case.

these pre-cooled shipments at the standard rate without
additional compensation are better business than either
the ventilated or the refrigerated movement. Clearly these
growers who have devised and perfected this system of
shipment, should not be compelled to pay for the privilege
of using it more than the fair cost to the carrier of providing the additional facilities which are not included in the
ventilated rate with a fair profit." 20 I. C. C. 121.
The report concluded as follows: "We are of the opinion that the present pre-cooling charges of the defendants
of $30 per car are unjust and unreasonable, and that
these charges should not exceed for the future $7.50 per
car, but the defendants may, as a condition of making
this charge, require that pre-cooled cars be loaded seven
tiers wide and two tiers high, and may provide by their
tariffs a proper minimum to accomplish this result, the
amount of which would depend upon the length of the
car." 20 I. C. C. 123.
The carriers, in obedience to this order, put in a tariff
of $7.50 for pre-cooling services, but at once filed another
tariff, effective July 1, 1911, reciting that "the privilege
heretofore permitted to shippers of citrus fruit to pre-ice
carload shipments is withdrawn, the carriers- retaining
and exercising the exclusive right and control of furnishing and doing all icing and refrigeration of citrus fruit
in all cases where shipper does not specifically -request or direct shipments to move solely under ventilation."
Immediately thereafter the orange-growers' associations
filed proceedings to cancel this withdrawal tariff and to
compel the carriers to continue to extend to shippers the
old privilege of pre-cooling at the new rate of $7.50. At
the hearing the evidence and reports of the Commission
in the former case were stipulated into the record and,
on April 8, 1912 (23 I. C. C. 267, 271), the Commission held that the shippers had the right to the pre-cooling

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Appellants.

232 U. S.

privilege and again ruled that $7.50 was a reasonable
charge for the services rendered by the carriers.
The Railroad Companies then filed a petition in the
Commerce Court attacking the original order of January 14, 1911 (fixing $7.50 as a reasonable charge on precooled shipments) and the last order of April 8, 1912,
(requiring the roads to permit pre-cooled shipments at
that sum), contending that shippers had no right to ice the
bunkers. They also insisted that the $7.50 rate was confiscatory and did not equal the $17.50, which the Commission itself had found to be the actual cost of services rendered in connection with pre-cooled shipments. The
carriers, thereupon prayed that both orders should be
annulled and set aside.
The Commerce Court (204 Fed. Rep. 647, 651) adopted
the finding of the Commission that in pre-cooled shipments
the revenue was $54 greater than in the Railroads' method
of refrigeration, and concluded by saying that, in view of
that fact, "we do not think that the petitioners have any
valid complaint to make of the charge of $7.50 per car
established by the Commission." It further held that
under the facts appearing in the record, the shipper had
the right to furnish the ice in pre-cooled shipments and
thereupon it dismissed the petition. The case was then
brought here by appeal.
Mr. Gardiner Lathrop and Mr. F. H. Wood, with whom
Mr. Robert Dunlap, Mr. T. J. Norton, Mr. A. S. Halsted,
Mr. C. W. Durbrow and Mr. W. F. Herrin were on the
brief, for appellants:
The Commission has no power or authority to require
carriers against their will to permit the shippers to perform any part of the refrigeration or transportation service,
and the order of the Commission suspending and finally
setting aside the amendment to the tariffs of the carriers
withdrawing any permission or privilege theretofore

ATCHISON RAILWAY CO. v. UNITED STATES.
232 U. S.

205

Argument for Appellants.

granted to shippers of pre-icing the carriers' cars was and
is erroneous and invalid.
Shippers may pre-cool intended shipments in their own
plants, but are not lawfully entitled to refrigerate the carriers' cars or perform a part of that service.
The carriers never claimed that the pre-cooling done by
the shippers is a part of the transportation. But the
icing of their equipment is a part of the transportation
service.
For definition of refrigeration see 23 I. C. C. 267. See
also Int. Com. Comm. v. Louis. & Nash R. R. Co., 227
U. S. 88.
Furnishing of ice, loading it into bunkers of the car of
the carrier which is under the control of the carrier, is a
part of the refrigeration service. See Matter of Charges,
11 I. C. C. 129, 138; Truck Farmers' Assn. v. Northeastern
Ry., 6 I. C. C. 295, 316.
The railroad company is charged with the duty of
refrigeration under the statute. Florida Fruit Assn.
v. Atlantic Coast Line, 14 I. C. C. 476, 507; Albree v.
B. & M. R. R., 22 I. C. C. 303, 321; Waxelbaum & Co. v.
A. C. L. R. Co., 12 I. C. C. 178.
It was the same at common law. Johnson v. Toledo &c.
Ry., 133 Michigan, 596; 4 Elliott on Railroads, § 1474;
2 Hutchinson on Carriers, 3d ed., § 505.
Where duty has been imposed upon the carrier it is
responsible for the safe transit of the shipments transported under such duty and takes the risk of the same
being properly attended to, and cannot relieve itself from
this liability or risk by contract with the shipper. Taft
v. Am. Exp. Co., 133 Iowa, 522; New York &c. v. Cromwell, 98 Virginia, 227; In re Charges, 11 I. C. C. 129, 138;
St. Louis &c. Ry. v. Renfroe, 82 Arkansas, 143; St. Louis
&c. Ry. v. Jackson, 55 Tex. Civ. App. 407; McLean v.
Gulf &c. Ry., 55 Tex. Civ. App. 130; M., K. & T. Ry. v.
McLean, 55 Tex. Civ. App. 130.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Appellants.

232 U. S.

See also the obligation imposed by the Carmack Amendment to §20 of the Interstate Commerce Act.
The burden, responsibility and liability having been
placed upon the carrier under the common law, and later
by express statute, the carrier cannot be denied the right
to perform the entire transportation service in order that
it may make certain that the shipment will be carried in
such a manner as will insure its safe transit and delivery.
The shipper is not legally entitled to perform any part
of refrigeration without the carrier's consent.
Such duties as are imposed upon it, either by common
or statute law, the carrier must discharge and perform
either directly or through the instrumentality of some
agency, and as it is responsible for the performance,
and has imposed upon it the risk of proper performance,
it may select its own agency therefor. Refrigeration of
Fruit, 11 I. C. C. 129, 137.
Agency -is a matter of contract and the Commission has
not the power to impose such contracts upon carriers.
L. & N. R. R. Co. v. West Coast Co., 198 U. S. 483, 497;
CentralStock Yards Co. v. L. & N. R. R., 192 U. S.,568.
The carriers in this case were and are prepared to precool shipments in cars. If they are lacking in proper
appliances or fail to discharge the obligations, the shipper's
right to relief is found in the courts because the Commission has not been vested with judicial power to determine
these questions or to enforce the shipper's rights in these
respects. Int. Comm. Comm. v. Nor. Pac. Ry., 216 U. S.
538.
Pre-icing as well as icing the car is a part of transportation. There is no more right in the shipper to pre-ice
or re-ice a car of the carrier and thus furnish a part of the
transportation service than there is to demand that the
carrier accept and use the cars of the shipper and make
allowance therefor. Int. Comm. Comm. v. Diffenbaugh,
222 U. S. 42, 47; Cons. Forwarding Co. v. Southern Pat.

ATCHISON RAILWAY CO. v. UNITED STATES.
232 U. S.

207

Argument for Appellants.

Co., 9 I. C. C. 182, 197, 206; In re Transportation, 10
I. C. C. 360, 374; Matter of Charges, 11 1. C. C. 129, 138.
A shipper cannot force his own car or equipment upon
the carrier without the carrier's consent and demand an
allowance therefor. Central Stock Yards Co. v. Louis.
& Nash. Ry. Co., 118 Fed. Rep. 113; S. C., 192 U. S.
568.
If these services are necessary in the refrigeration of the
car, the law enjoins upon the carrier the obligation of
furnishing them and imposes upon the carrier the obligation of answering to the shipper in the event the services
are not properly performed. 1 Wyman, Pub. Serv. Corps.,
§ 796, p. 669, note 1; Atlantic Coast Line v. Geraty, 166
Fed. Rep. 10; Calender Co. v. Chicago &c. R. Co., 99
Minnesota, 295; Undell v. Ill. Cent. R. R. Co., 13 Mo. App.
254; Mathis v. Southern Ry. Co., 65 So. Car. 271; Chicago
& A. R. Co. v. Davis, 159 Illinois, 53; International&c. Ry.
Co. v. Welbourne, 113 S. W. Rep. 780; St. L., I. M. & S. R.
Co. v. Cumbie, 101 Arkansas, 172; Pennsylvania R. R. Co.
v. Orem, 111 Maryland, 356; McConnell Bros. v. Southern
Ry. Co., 144 Nor. Car. 87. See, also, note to St. Louis &c.
Ry. Co. v. Renfroe, 10 L. R. A. (N. S.) 317.
The Commerce Court had power to review the decision
and order of the Commission although it may have involved an administrative ruling. Whether or not a given
practice or regulation of the carrier is reasonable is
a question of law for the ultimate determination of the
courts in an appropriate proceeding. Here, however,
there was simply involved the legal right of the carrier to
insist upon itself performing the entire transportation
service and to withdraw from certain shippers a privilege
theretofore accorded to perform a part thereof 'with an
allowance therefor.
Common carriers have the right to make reasonable
rules and regulations for the conduct of their business,
governing the use of their cars and the manner of receipt,

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Appellants.

232 U. S.

transportation, delivery and care of freight while in their
custody, and there is a presumption that such regulations
are reasonable. Harp v. Choctaw &c. R. R. Co., 125 Fed.
Rep. 445, 450; Robinson v B. & 0. R. R. Co., 129 Fed.
Rep. 753; Platt v. Lecocq, 158 Fed. Rep. 724, 730; 2
Hutchinson on Carriers, 3d ed., §§ 943, 1033, 1077.
The reasonableness of any rule or regulation of a carrier
is a question of law to be determined by the court. Pullman Co. v. Krauss, 145 Alabama, 395; 40 So. Rep. 399;
Gregory v. C. & N. W. Ry. Co., 100 Iowa, 345; Central
of Georgia Ry. v. Motes, 117 Georgia, 923; Ill. Cent. R. R.
Co. v. Whittemore, 43 Illinois, 420, 423; Vedder v. Fellows,
20 N. Y. 126, 130; Railroad Co. v. Fleming, 14 Lea (Tenn.),
145.
The question resolves itself into one of law. The
Commission has committed an error of law in rendering
its decision, and has entered an order which transcends
its power and authority. The court should have determined these questions of law as an original proposition and not have felt constrained to accept the conclusions, findings, and order of the Commission as final.
Ill. Cent. R. R. Co. v. I. C. C., 215 U. S. 452; Int. Comm.
Comm. v. Un. Pac. R. R. Co., 222 U. S. 541.
The $7.50 charge prescribed by the Commission as
compensation to the carrier for refrigeration where the
shipper is permitted to pre-ice is unreasonable, unlawful,
arbitrary and confiscatory and contrary to the findings
of the Commission.
Carriers are entitled to a reasonable profit for each
particular service rendered. Southern Ry. Co. v. St. Louis
Hay Co., 214 U. S. 297; Int. Comm. Comm. v. Stickney,
215 U. S. 98; Cotting v. Kansas City Stock Yards, 183 U. S.
79, 93, 94.
The order of the Commission gives those shippers with
cold storage plants an advantage over others by the difference between $7.50 and $30, or $22.50 on every car.

ATCHISON RAILWAY CO. v. UNITED STATES.
232 U. S.

209

Argument for the United States.

Mr. Blackburn Esterline, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom The Solicitor General was on
the brief, for the United States:
The findings of fact set forth in the report of the Commission put it beyond th p-wer of the appellants to challenge the validity-' of its order. Their counsel advance
elaborate arguments and the citation of numerous authorities on the respective functions -f the Commission
and the court. The whole evidence is also discussed. The
respect due to the rel5eated decisions of this court forbids
the counsel for the .Government from entering into any
discussion of those questions. The elaborate brief of the
appellants fails to set forth any single, distinct and
dominant proposition of law which the Commission erroneously decided. They have cleared the way for the
affirmance of the judgment. Interstate Commerce Commission v. Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Railway Co., 218
U. S.88, and other authorities.
The Interstate Commerce Commission found as a fact
that "the filling of the bunkers with ice is a part of the
preparation of the car for shipment, and not a part of the
transportation service," and that "pre-cooling and preicing" is inseparable and one and fhe same thing. The
appellants concede the right of the shippers to pre-cool
the fruits and place them in the cars. The concession
brings the case to an end, as there is no legal question for
review.
The carriers, the shippers, the Commission, and the
Commerce Court all treated "pre-cooling and pre-icing"
as one and the same thing until after the Commission
condemned the charge of $30 per car, and the Commerce
Court denied the first motion for preliminary injunction.
The carriers then took the position, for the first time, that
pre-cooling and pre-icing are different and separable; that
pre-icing is refrigeration, and'refrigeration is transportation, which the carriers, under the Act to Regulate ComVOL. ccxxxii-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Interstate Commerce Commission.

232 U. S.

merce, have the sole and only right to perform. This was
an afterthought, suggested by the pressure and exigencies
of the case. Railway Co. v. McCarthy, 96 U. S. 258, 267.
The carriers first established the "pre-cooling and preicing" privilege. It was not until after all hope of levying the extortionate charge of $30 per car was gone, that
they sought to cancel the tariff, and raise these numerous
objections to the practice, such as damage to, and wear
and tear of, the cars; the inferior quality and irregular
dimensions of the ice blocks; the lack of proper refrigeration; the irregularity of the shippers in pre-cooling and
pre-icing; the necessity for extra icing during delays in
transit; the alleged increase of damage claims resulting,
and the experimental purposes for which the practice is
said to have been installed. While the carriers were levying the extortionate charge of $30 per car, which would
aggregate, on all shipments, approximately $800,000 a
year, these groundless objections laid dormant. Had no
complaint been filed, or had the Commission dismissed
the complaint, or refused to interfere, no objection would
ever have been raised by the carriers to the practice.
The Commission was dealing with loaded cars and the
weight of the contents. The "pre-cooling and pre-icing"
is the highest standard of refrigeration and the most efficient system ever devised. It brings more revenue per
car to the carriers as a result of the difference in the loading
than any other system. No equivalent is offered by the
carriers. The allowance of $7.50 for the wear and tear
on the bunkers is adequate.
The argument that the order of the Commission will
result in gross discrimination against the small shipper
has already been rejected. Interstate Commerce Commission v. Chicago,Rock Island& PacificRy. Co., 218 U. S. 88.
Mr. P. J. Farrellfor the Interstate Commerce Commission:

ATCHISON RAILWAY CO. v. UNITED STATES.
232 U. S.

211

Argument for Interstate Commerce Commission.

The order of January 14, 1911, is fully supported by the
evidence contained in the record made by the parties in
the proceedings before the Commission.
The charge of $7.50 covers only services of carriers in
keeping ice bunkers in repair.
To vary charge of repairing ice bunkers according to
variations in distances over which traffic is transported
would be impracticable and improper.
The Commission's finding concerning cost to shippers of
pre-cooling and pre-icing is fully supported by evidence
upon which it is based.
The reasons advanced by counsel in support of their contention that the order is invalid are based upon an erroneous
view concerning matters covered by the charge of $7.50.
The order of April 8, 1912, is not based upon an erroneous construction of the Act to Regulate Commerce.
Pre-icing can be done more economically and satisfactorily by shippers than by carriers.
Shippers, within certain limits, have control of the condition in which traffic may be delivered to carriers for
transportation.
The cases cited in their brief by counsel for the carriers
are inapposite.
Carriers cannot compel shippers to pay for refrigeration
services they do not ask for and do not need.
The right of carriers to re-ice in order to protect themselves against damages which would otherwise result
from delays en route is freely admitted.
The shippers' right to pre-ice does not depend upon
carrier's view of result which will ensue if shippers avail
themselves of such right.
To serve their own interests the carriers are seeking to
compel shippers to adopt an unnecessarily expensive
method of shipment.
The Hepburn Act did not make the pre-icing in question a part of transportation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

Such pre-icing is an indispensable element of the precooling process.
If the Commission had permitted cancellation tariffs of
carriers to become operative, shipments of fruit would
have been thereby subjected to new rates in excess of those
formerly in effect.
Carriers may not render ineffective an order of the
Commission by canceling tariffs voluntarily published and
filed by them upon which the order is based.
In support of these contentions see Int. Comm. Comm.
v. Del.; Lack. & West. R. R. Co., 220 U. S. 235; Int. Comm.
Comm. v. Diffenbaugh, 222 U. S. 42; Investigation and
Suspension of Certain Regulations, 23 I. C. C. 267; Pacific
Coast Lumber Assn.. v. Atchison &c. Ry. Co., 14 I. C. C.
154.
Mr. William E. Lamb, with whom Mr. George E. Farrand, Mr. Rush C. Butler and Mr. Stephen A. Foster were
on the brief, for the Arlington Heights Fruit Company
et al., intervenors.
MR. JUSTICE LAmAR, after making the foregoing statement of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.

There are many cases between shipper and carrier in
which each insists that the other is bound to furnish
service or facilities connected with the transportation of
freight. The present record, however, presents an instance
where both parties are contending for the privilege of
supplying an article needed in the proper shipment of
fruit-the consignor claiming that icing is a necessary
part of the loading, which he is authorized to supply;
while the carriers insist that icing is a part of refrigeration,
by statute made transportation, which they are bound to
provide and for which they are entitled to collect reasonable compensation. The determination of these conflict-

ATCHISON RAILWAY CO. v. UNITED STATES. 213
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ing claims necessitates an examination of the two methods
under which, in warm weather, oranges are shipped from
California to the East.
In what is called Standard Refrigeration, the boxes, of
the aggregate weight of 27,200 pounds, are so placed as to
leave spaces between them wide enough to admit of a free
circulation of air chilled by ice in the bunkers. Subsequently the carriers put in a system of pre-cooling, under
which after the cars had been loaded they were taken
from the point of shipment to Refrigerating Plants owned
by the carriers, where whole trainloads are pre-cooled at
one time by means of blasts of very cold air driven into
the car through and around the boxes. At the end of
three or four hours the fruit is sufficiently chilled, the
bunkers are then filled with about 10 tons of ice, furnished
by the carrier, and the train is started on its journey to
the East-the bunkers being re-iced from time to time as
needed at stations along the route. For this entire service
the Commission held that the carrier's charge of $62.50
was reasonable.
A different method obtains where the icing of the car is
done by the shipper at his own expense. In that class of
cases the oranges are taken from the grove directly to a
cold room having a temperature of about 33°F. There the
boxes are allowed to remain for periods of from 24 to 48
hours, and until the fruit is chilled to the center. When
thus pre-cooled, the boxes are ready for shipment. A
refrigerator car is then placed on the track opposite the
door of the cold room of the warehouse with which it is
connected by a collapsible enclosed passageway, so arranged as to exclude the outside air, while at the same
time allowing that from the cold room to enter and cool
the interior of the car. Through this passageway the
oranges are trucked from the warehouse to the car and,
as they have been chilled to the center, the boxes are
packed close together forming a solid mass weighing

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

33,000 lbs., with a temperature of about 35F. The doors
and vents of the car are promptly and tightly closed, the
bunkers are immediately filled with unusually large cakes
of ice, in order to reduce the rate of melting, and the fruit
is then forwarded under a filed tariff which provides that
re-icing is unnecessary, and that the shipper will make no
claim for damage occasioned by failure to re-ice in transit.
For their services in connection with such pre-cooled shipments the carriers were allowed to charge $7.50 but the
Commission refused to permit them to charge for the ice
needed to keep the fruit cool between warehouse and
destination.
1. This ruling is attacked by the appellants, who contend that icing is a part of refrigeration, which the Hepburn Act I makes a part of the transportation they are
bound to furnish upon reasonable request. They insist
that in order to meet the duty, thus imposed by statute, they have been compelled at great expense to erect
immense plants where trainloads of fruit can be cooled
and where an enormous quantity of ice is manufactured
for refrigeration purposes. They argue that, being bound
to furnish all necessary icing and re-icing and having at
great cost prepared to furnish the supply, it is not only
just, but a right given by statute, that they should be allowed to provide all needed icing or refrigeration at a rate
to be approved by the Commission.
Whatever transportation service or facility the law
requires the carrier to supply they have the right to furnish. They can therefore use their own cars, and cannot
be compelled to accept those tendered by the shipper on
The term "transportation' shall include . . . all services in connection with the receipt, delivery . . . ventilation, refrigeration or icing, . . . of property transported; and it shall be
the duty of every carrier . . . to provide and furnish such transportation upon reasonable request therefor. (Act of June 29, 1906,
c. 3591, § 1, 34 Stat. 584.)
1

.

ATCHISON RAILWAY CO. v. UNITED STATES.
232 U. S.

215

Opinion of the Court.

condition that a lower freight rate be charged. So, too,
they can furnish all the ice needed in refrigeration, for
this is not only a duty and a right, under the Hepburn
Act, but an economic necessity due to the fact that the
carriers cannot be expected to prepare to meet the demand,
and then let the use of their plants depend upon haphazard calls, under which refrigeration can be demanded
by all shippers at one time and by only a few at another.
This contention was sustained by the Commission,
which recognized that "the shipper has no right to provide
refrigeration himself today and call upon the railroad
company for that service tomorrow. To permit such. a
course is to demoralize the service of the defendants and
prevent them from discharging their duty with economy
and efficiency.

.

.

. It is the duty of the carrier to

furnish refrigeration upon reasonable demand, and in so
far as the furnishing of that refrigeration is a part of the
service rendered by the carrier, the carrier may insist upon
its right to furnish that service exclusively." 20 I. C. C.
116.
2. But of course this does not mean, that because the
carriers have ice on hand, they can compel the shipper to
have his fruit refrigerated, when, on account of the state
of the weather or for other cause, he prefers to have it
forwarded under ventilation only. When, however, ice
is actually needed and is actually used, the question arises
as to whether icing is a part of preparation which can be
done by the shipper; or a part of refrigeration (transportation) which, by statute the carrier has the exclusive right
to furnish.
To this question no answer can be given that will apply
in all cases. For in the shipment of fruit, as in that of
other articles, it is impossible to lay down a rule which
definitely fixes what loading includes and by whom it must
be done. Nor is there any consistent practice on this
subject, since from reported cases it appears that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion ot the Court.

232 U. S.

claims of the parties are based rather on interest than
on some definite principle. Sometimes the shipper, as
here, insists on the right to load and provide necessary
appliances. At other times he demands that such service
and appliances be furnished by the railroad company.
Conversely the carriers sometimes claim, as here, the right
to furnish service and facilities, while in other cases insisting that one or both must be supplied by the consignor.
Cf. National Lumber Dealers Association v. Atlantic
Coast Line, 14 I. C. C. 154; Schultz v. Southern Pacific,
18 I. C. C. 234; In re Allowance for Lining and Heating'
Cars, 26 1. C. C. 681; 25 1. C. C. 497.
These inconsistent and conflicting demands serve to
emphasize the fact that, before the haul actually begins,
the right or duty of each party, where not absolutely fixed
by statute, must be decided with reference to the special
facts of each case.
As a general rule, the carrier loads all freight tendered in
less than carload lots while the consignor loads in all cases
where, for his convenience, the car is placed at his warehouse or on public team tracks. This practice has grown
up not only because the work can be more satisfactorily
performed by the owner, but also because it is impossible
for railroad companies economically to load cars at private
warehouses or on those tracks where vehicles of the
consignor or consignee come and go at the direction of the
owner. 25 1. C. C. 490.
3. But loading may involve more than the mere placing
of the freight on the car, since the character of the shipment may be such as to require the furnishing and placing
of stakes, racks, blocks and binders needed to make the
transportation safe; or, the freight may be such as to
require special covering, packing, icing or heating, in order
to preserve the merchandise in condition fit for use at the
end of the journey. Who is to furnish these needed
facilities, may be quite as uncertain as who is to place the

ATCHISON RAILWAY CO. v. UNITED STATES. 217
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

freight on the car, and can only be determined by considering the character of the shipment, the place where the
loading begins, and who can most economically perform
the service required.
Neither party has a right to insist upon a wasteful or
expensive service for which the consumer must ultimately
pay. The interest of the public is to be considered as well
as that of shippers and carriers-their rights in turn having been adjusted by a reduction in the rate, if the loading
is done in whole or in part by the shipper; and by an
increase in the rate where the loading is done in whole or in
part by the carrier. But, by whomsoever done, the
loading must be such as to fit the freight for shipment, and
when-by statutory requirement, by valid order of the
Commission, or by the carriers' voluntary act,-the car is
placed at the consignor's warehouse to be loaded by the
shipper, he may not only put the freight on the car but
may do all other acts required to fit the freight for its
proper shipment-at least, until under a tariff regularly
filed, the carrier offers to do what is necessary to secure or
preserve what has thus been placed on its car for transportation. The refrigeration and pre-cooling offered by
the carrier to shippers of pre-cooled fruit was found not
to be the equivalent of the method adopted by the shipper.
4. In the present case the carriers concede that in precooling shipments the consignor had the right to take all
of the steps for preparation except the last. They concede that he had the right to pre-cool the fruit, to pre-cool
the car, to place the boxes on board the car, to stop the
vents and seal the doors. But they deny that he could
ice the bunkers, even though that was necessary to the
complete preparation, or loading, needed in that particular
class of shipments and without which the fruit would be
damaged by the rise in temperature, occurring during the
time the car is being hauled from the warehouse of the
shipper to the icing station of the carrier. Such delay in

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

filling bunkers would nullify most of the advantage of the
expensive chilling of fruit and car necessary in the precooling shipments,-permitted, if not originally encouraged, by the carrier. The privilege was withdrawnnot because the railroad companies were in position to
furnish the ice at the proper time and place, but solely
because the Commission had reduced the carriers' charge
on pre-cooled oranges from $30 to $7.50 per car.
The icing may have been so related to refrigeration as to
authorize the carriers to render that service. But manifestly they could not be expected to build refrigerating
plants near each warehouse; and, the carrier not being in a
position to do such icing, the consignor had the same
right to provide the necessary supply that he would have
had to ice a shipment of fish, to furnish and plac*e standards
to secure lumber on an open car, or to fasten to the floor
articles which otherwise might be damaged by the jerks and
jolts of a moving train. In the absence, therefore, of the
carriers' offer, under' a filed tariff, to furnish ice at the
time and place needed in pre-cooled shipments, or to substitute a service of equal value at practically the same cost,
they had no right to prevent the consignor from filling the
bunkers so as to fit the freight for proper transportation.
5. The tariffs, withdrawing the pre-cooling privilege
after July, 1911, would have changed the practice, recognized by the carriers themselves and actually approved
by the Commission's order fixing $7.50 for the carrier's
services in connection with such practice. As the withdrawal "affected a practice and a.rate," the Commission
had power to cancel that tariff and to require the carriers
to conform to the order establishing the $7.50 charge on
pre-cooled shipments. Such an order was justified by the
provisions of the Hepburn Act (34 Stat. 589), which
authorizes the Commission, after a hearing, to determine
whether rates, or practices affecting rates, are unreasonable, to determine what practice in respect to trans-

ATCHISON RAILWAY CO. v. UNITED STATES.
232 U. S.

219

Opinion of the Court.

portation is just, and to require the carrier to conform'to
those prescribed by the Commission. 1
6. The appellants insist, howeyer, that even if the
shippers are entitled to furnish the ice the carriers are
entitled to pay for hauling it. They claim that the charge
of $7.50 is confiscatory because it does not cover what the
Commission found to be the actual cost of the carriers'
pre-cooling service. They point to the fact that the
rate of $1.15 per cwt. on oranges was found to be reasonable, without regard to the character of the shipment and
whether the fruit moved under Ventilation, Standard
Refrigeration or Pre-cooling Shipment,-additional sums
being allowed for furnishing or hauling ice needed in
transportation of the fruit. They admit that more
revenue is derived from a carload of pre-cooled fruit,
weighing 33,000 lbs. than from a car where the load
weights 27,200, but insist that the greater revenue is
because of a greater service rendered and a greater weight
hauled. On the authority of Int. Com. Comm. v. Stickney,
215 U. S. 98, 105 they contend that the receipt of a fair
return for carrying 33,000 lbs. of fruit affords no reason for
compelling them to haul 5,000 lbs. of ice 2000 miles
for nothing, when, as found by the Commission, the
actual cost of the haul is $12.50.
The order does not show the items going to make up
the $7.50 charge. In the brief for the Commission it was
15. The Commission is authorized . . . whenever, after
a full hearing . . . it shall be of the opinion that any of the
'SEC.

rates, or charges . . . for the transportation of persons or property . . . or that any regulations or practices . . . affecting
such rates, are unjust or unreasonable, . . ., to determine and
prescribe what will be the just and reasonable rate . . . and what

regulation or practice in respect to such transportation is just, fair, and
reasonable to be thereafter followed; and to make an order that the
carrier shall cease and desist from such violation,

.

.

.

and shall

conform to the regulation or practice so prescribed. (Act of June 29,
1906, c. 3591, § 4, 34 Stat., 584, 5W9.)

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

said to include $5 for damage to the bunkers and $2.50
for profit. And since the report shows that the carriers
were also entitled to $12.50 for hauling the ice, a charge of
only $7.50 for a $20.00 service would at first blush appear
to be not only unreasonable but confiscatory. But the
order is to be read in connection with the report of which
it forms a part. When. so read it is evident that the
Commission did not intend to require the carriers to haul
5,000 lbs. of ice without reasonable compensation, but
considered that the haul of the ice was so much a part of
the haul of the pre-cooled freight, that the expense could
properly be treated as included or absorbed in the rate
on the fruit itself. Cf. FarrarCo. v. N. C. & St. L., 25
I. C. C. 25; Swift v. M. P. Ry. Co., 22 I. C. C. 385.
The cost of such haul was $12.50-equivalent to 3.8 on
the 33,000 lbs. of oranges.in a pre-cooled shipment, and as
a mere matter of figures, it was immaterial to the carriers
whether they were permitted to charge $1.11.2 on the
fruit and $12.50 for the ice, or $1.15 on the fruit alone
without any distinct charge for transporting the ice. In
either event, the revenue received was more than that
,derived from a car of Standard Refrigeration without
corresponding increase in cost.
7. The claim that the order modifies the established
rate of $1.15 and reduces it to $1.11.2 in pre-cooled shipments, thereby discriminating against the small fruitgrower and those who forward under ventilation or under
the carriers' method of refrigeration, is not an issue presented by any assignment of error in this record, even it
the carriers were in position to make such a contention.
Int. Com. Comm. v. Chicago, Rock Island & Pac. Ry., 218
U. S. 88, 109. There is no claim in this case that such
rate, thus distributed, is unreasonable.
8. What is a proper rate on fruit in pre-cooling shipments, or a fair charge for hauling necessary ice or rendering other transportation services are all rate-making

THOMAS v. MATTHIESSEN.
232 U. S.

Syllabus.

matters committed to the Commission. It may determine what shall be the difference in rate between carload
and less than carload lots. It may decide whether the
difference in revenue, due to a difference in method of
loading, warrants a difference in the rate on carload shipments of the same article. It may prescribe the form in
which schedules shall be prepared and arranged (§ 6) and
may approve tariffs stating that the single rate includes
both the line haul and accessorial services absorbed in the
rate. Conversely, it may prescribe a tariff fixing a through
rate which includes not only the haul of the fruit, but the
haul of the ice necessary to keep the fruit in condition. All
these are matters committed to the decision of the administrative body, which, in each instance, is required to
fix reasonable rates and establish reasonable practices.
The courts have not been vested with any such power.
They cannot make rates. They cannot interfere with
rates fixed or practices established by the Commission
unless it is made plainly to appear that those ordered are
void. Int. Com. Comm. v. Union Pacific R. R., 222 U. S.
541, 547. No such showing is made in this case. The decree must, therefore, be
Affirmed.

THOMAS v. MATTHIESSEN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 171.

Argued January 19, 1914.-Decided February 2, 1914.

While a corporation cannot, without authority from the stockholders,
make them answerable in a way not contemplated by the charter,
a provision in the charter of a corporation organized in one State
authorizing it to do business in another State may subject the stock-

