OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

232 U. S.

the present statute must be held to be void. The excess
collected may have been valid as a tax on property in
Maryland, but was a burden on interstate commerce when
levied upon oysters coming from other States. This fact
renders the whole tax void, because there is no claim that
the intrastate commerce can be separated from the interstate shipments; or that the legislature would have taxed
one and left the other untaxed.
Judgment reversed and the case remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v.
O'CONNOR.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MINNESOTA.
No. 473.' Submitted January 6, 1914.-Decided February 24, 1914.
The rule that carriers are not concerned with questions of title but must
treat the forwarder as shipper and charge the applicable rates, Int.
Com. Comm. v. Del., Lack. & West. R. R. Co., 220 U. S. 235, applies
also to accepting the forwarder's classification and valuation, without regard to any private instructions given by the actual shipper
to the forwarder.
A shipper, whose forwarder has violated instructions as to valuation
or classification to his damage, has his remedy against the forwarder
but not against the carrier. He is bound by the acts of his agent.
A shipper has a remedy in direct proceedings before the Interstate
Commerce Commission to attack the reasonableness of the tariff
and if justified may obtain relief by a reparation order or suit in
court after a finding of unreasonableness; but in a suit for damages
before such a finding he cannot attack the filed tariff as unreasonable.
Where the filed tariff states alternative lower and higher rates based on

GREAT NORTHERN RY. v. O'CONNOR.
232 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

valuation the carrier is entitled to collect the rate applicable to the
value declared and the shipper is liable for that valuation.
This result is not affected by the use of printed forms. The minds of
the parties met and the value as well as the rate was fixed by the
contract.
120 Minnesota, 359, reversed.

THE Boyd Transfer Company of Minneapolis in addition to its regular transfer business acted as a forwarder
by railroad. By collecting from different shippers small
lots of goods sufficient in the aggregate to fill a car, it
secured carload rates and out of the difference between
carload and less than carload rates it made a profit and
at the same time was enabled to offer better rates to the
small' shipper. How this difference between the two rates
was divided between owner and forwarder, does not appear in the record. At the time of the shipment referred
to ip this case, the Railroad Company had four rates on
household goods (including Emigrant Movables), which
vary, both according to the weight and ,value of the shipment, as follows:
Less than Carload Lots (value not stated). $3.00 per cwt.
Less than Carload Lots (not to exceed $10
per cwt.) .......................... 2.00 " "
Carload Lots (value not stated) ......... 1.60
Carload Lots (value not to exceed $10).. .. 1.00
While these tariffs were in force, the Boyd Transfer
Company was employed by the plaintiff, on terms not
stated, to box, transfer and ship certain property which
she desired to have sent to Portland, Oregon. The articles consisted of a typewriter, stationery, books, curtains,
wearing apparel, jewelry and other personal effects. Some
of them had been packed in a trunk and the balance were
boxed by the Boyd Company and loaded by it into a car
filled with household goods. The weight of the load was
22,000 lbs. The Boyd Company filled out a bill of lading,
describing the shipment as "One car of Emigrant Mov-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

232 U. S.

ables." "Released to $10 per cwt." and naming "Boyd
Transfer and Storage Company, shipper." The bill of
lading on presentation was signed by the agent of the
Railroad Company. The goods were lost en route and
the plaintiff brought suit against the Railroad Company
for $598.65, their full value. The Company filed a plea
setting up that the property had been destroyed without
its fault, and further contended that in view of the provisions of the tariff and the fact that the goods had been
shipped on the $1 rate, the carrier could not be held liable
beyond $10 per hundredweight.
At the trial the plaintiff testified she did not know
that there had been any valuation of her goods, as the
agent of the Boyd Company in soliciting the shipment
had stated that it had a through car, but said nothing
to her about shipping her effects as household goods,
and she understood that they were to be shipped as a
separate consignment. She testified that she had stated
to the Transfer Company that her goods were new and
as she had no insurance she was willing to pay the regular
rates.
. The defendant introduced the tariffs, and offered evidence to show that its agents had no knowledge of the
contents of plaintiff's boxes which had been loaded into
the car by the Transfer Company which also made out
the bill of lading and endorsed thereon a statement that
the car contained Emigrant Movables Released at $10
per cwt.
A number of auctioneers and dealers in second hand
furniture were introduced as witnesses for the purpose
of establishing the average value of second hand furniture
and household goods. They testified that they were
familiar with the value of household goods and second
hand furniture; testified that only a few of such effects
are sold by weight, but the value being ascertained, the
articles could be weighed and the value per pound then

GREAT NORTHERN RY. v. O'CONNOR.
232 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

determined. This they illustrated by giving the cost,
weight and value per pound of various articles, and gave
their opinion as to the average value of shipments of household goods including furniture, carpets, wearing apparel
and the like. One witness stated that the average value
was about $4 per cwt., another $5 per cwt., another testified that, including a second-hand piano weighing 1500
lbs., the average value would be about $7 per cwt. There
was no testimony in rebuttal, beyond the fact -that the
articles belonging to plaintiff were shown to be worth
much more than $10 per cwt.
The court charged that if the Boyd Company was the
agent of the plaintiff to make the shipment she was bound
by its valuation, provided such valuation was not an arbitrary attempt to limit liability and left to the jury to
determine whether there had been such an arbitrary attempt to limit liability. They returned a verdict for the
amount claimed in the complaint. The defendant moved
for a new trial because of errors in the charge and because
the verdict was in excess of the sum for which the defendant could be held responsible under the tariffs filed with
the Interstate Commerce Commission. The judge held
that the carrier was not responsible for $62.50, the value
of jewelry and silverware in the trunk, and the plaintiff
having written off that amount, judgment was rendered
against the defendant for $533.40, a sum much in excess
of $10 per cwt. The case was then taken to the Supreme
Court of Minnesota which affirmed the judgment. It
held that the Railroad Company was charged with knowledge that a considerable portion of the amount received
by shipping at reduced rates went to the Forwarding Company and not to the various owners of the goods packed
in one car; and that the Railway Company must have
known that the Boyd Company was ignorant of the value
and contents of the boxes belonging to the different shippers. It ruled that the Boyd Company had no implied

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

232 U. S.

authority to make an agreement as to the value of plaintiff's goods. It further held that whether there had been
any bona fide attempt to fix value was a question of fact
and as the jury by their verdict had found that there had
been no such effort, the plaintiff under Ostroot v. N. P. Ry.
Co., 111 Minnesota, 504, was entitled to recover the full
value of the goods shipped. It further held that the rule
announced by it was not opposed to Adams Express Company v. Croninger, 226 U. S. 491; Chicago &c. Ry. v.
Miller, 226 U. S. 513; Chicago &c. v. Latta, 226 U. S. 519.
The defendant then sued out a writ of error.
Mr. E. C. Lindley and Mr. M. L. Countryman for plaintiff in error:
Under the Act to Regulate Commerce, defendant in
error was bound by the released valuation declared by
her agent, the Boyd Transfer and Storage Company, upon
which valuation she obtained a lower rate of freight in
accordance with the carrier's interstate tariff provisions.
Adams Exp. Co. v. Croninger, 226 U. S. 491; Kansas City
&c. R. Co. v. Carl, 227 U. S. 639; Missouri, K. & T. R.
Co. V. Harriman, 227 U. S. 657; Wells-Fargo & Co. v.
Neiman-Marcus Co., 227 U. S. 469; C., B. & Q. R. Co. v.
Miller, 226 U. S. 513; C., St. P., M. & 0. Ry. Co. v. Latta,
226 U. S. 519.
Since this writ of error was sued out, the Minnesota
Supreme Court has seen its error and has in effect overruled its decision in the case at bar. Ford v. C., R. I. &
P. Ry. Co., 143 N. W. Rep. 249.
Mr. C. D. O'Brien, Mr. James Mattimore and Mr. T.
P. McNamara for defendant in error:
The manager of the Transfer Company had no authority
to release the value of the goods of defendant in error.

Benson v. OregonShort Line, 99 Pac. Rep. 1072.
There was no valid contract releasing the value of the

GREAT NORTHERN RY. v. O'CONNOR.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

goods in question, and the judgment of the state court
should be sustained.
It has not been held in any of the cases cited by plaintiff
in error that, under Federal legislation, a carrier may limit
its liability for its own negligence without either a contract or acts constituting an estoppel. Mo., Kans. & Tex.
Ry. Co. v. Harriman, 227 U. S. 657; Released Rates, 13
I. C. C. 550, 554, 555.
To entitle a shipper to the lower rate instead oi the
higher one, it must expressly appear that the value of
the goods are "declared by the shipper not to exceed
$10.00 per 100 lbs."
There was in this case no declared valuation by defendant in error or by the Boyd Transfer Company. On the
contrary it appears that the Boyd Transfer Company
attempted to release the value of the goods from their
true valuation to a lower value.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR, after making the foregoing statement of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff owned personal effects weighing 545 lbs.
and worth $598. She employed the Boyd Transfer Company which was also a Forwarder to box and ship the
property from Minneapolis to Portland. The regular
freight rate on such a shipment would have been $3 per
cwt., but without express authority from her, the Company forwarded her boxes with others under the terms
of a tariff which named $1 as the rate on carload shipments
of household goods valued at less than $10 per cwt. The
car and its contents were destroyed and the state Supreme
Court held that the plaintiff was entitled to recover the
full value of her property because (1) the railroad agents
must have known that the Transfer Company was a Forwarder, without authority to value plaintiff's property, and
because (2) there had been no bona fide effort to agree upon
a valuation.
vou ccx n-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

1. It is conceded that the carrier had no knowledge
of the contents of the boxes which were loaded by the
Transfer Company and forwarded under the low rate applicable to household goods worth less than $10 per cwt.
In the absence of something to indicate that the Transfer
Company was guilty of false billing, the carrier was not
required to make special inquiry, but could rely on the
statement that the car was loaded with goods of the
character and value stated. For, although the Boyd Company was a Forwarder, engaged in collecting a number of
small shipments from various persons in order to fill a car
and obtain the lower rates applicable to carload shipments, yet the Railroad Company was obliged to treat the
Forwarder as shipper, even though thereby the carrier
lost the benefit of the higher rate which would have been
applicable to separate and small shipments. This was the
ruling in Int. Com. Comm. v. Delaware, Lackawanna &
Western R. R., 220 U. S. 235, where it was held that the
carriers were not concerned with the question of title, but
must treat the Forwarder as shipper and charge the rates
applicable to the quantity of freight tendered regardless
of who owned the separate articles. If the Forwarder was
shipper for the purpose of securing carload rates, it was
also shipper for the purpose of classifying and valuing,
in order to determine which tariff rate was applicable.
2.. The plaintiff contended, however, that she had
expected her goods to be transported as a separate consignment. But the Transfer Company had been entrusted
with goods to be shipped by railway, and, nothing to the
contrary appearing, the, carrier had the right to assume
that the Transfer Company could agree upon the terms
of the shipment, some of which were. embodied in the
tariff. The carrier was not bound by her private instructions or limitation on the authority of the Transfer Company, whether it be treated as agent or Forwarder. If
there was any undervaluation, wrongful classification or

GREAT NORTHERN RY. v. O'CONNOR.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

violation of her instructions, resulting in damage, the
plaintiff has her remedy against that Company.
3. The plaintiff, however, claimed that, even if the
Boyd Transfer Company is to be treated as her agent to
agree upon the terms of shipment there had been no bona
fide effort to agree on a valuation, and that she was therefore entitled to recover the -full value of her goods. In
order to meet this contention the defendant offered evidence to show that it had no knowledge of the contents
of the boxes and was entitled to rely upon the entry on
the bill of lading inasmuch as the fair average value of
household goods was less than $10 per cwt. Under the decisions in Kansas Southern Ry. v. Carl, 227 U. S. 639, 655;
Missouri, Kans. & Tex. Ry. v. Harriman,227 U. S. 657, it
was not necessary to offer evidence to sustain the reasonableness of rates, classification, or other terms in the tariff
filed with the Commission. The shipper had the right, by
appropriate proceedings, to attack the rate or the classification and if either or both were held to be unreasonable
could secure appropriate relief either by Reparation Order,
or by suit in court, after such finding of unreasonableness.
But so long as the tariff rate, based on value, remained
operative it was binding upon the shipper and carrier
alike and was to be enforced by the courts in fixing the
rights and liabilities of the parties. The tariffs are filed
with the Commission and are open to inspection at every
station. In view of the multitude of transactions, it is not
.necessary that there shall be an inquiry as to each article
or a distinct agreement as to the value of each shipment.
If no value is stated the tariff rate applicable to such a
state of facts applies. If, on the other hand, there are
alternative rates based on value and the shipper names a
value to secure the lower rate, the carrier, in the absence
of something to show rebating or false billing, is entitled
to collect the rate which applies to goods of that class,
and if sued for their loss it is liable only for the loss of

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.

Syllabus.

232 U. S.

what the shipper had declared them to be in class and
value.
4. Nor was the result changed because of the use of
printed forms. This appears from the ruling in Hart v.
Pennsylvania R. R. Co., 112 U. S. 331, where it was
claimed that the shipper had not been asked to state the
value but had merely signed a printed contract naming a
value. The court said (p. 338): "The valuation named
was the 'agreed valuation,' the one on which the minds of
the parties met, however it came to be fixed, and the rate
of freight was based on that valuation, and was fixed on
condition that such was the valuation, and that the liability should go to that extent and no further." The rule
of the Hart, Carl and Harriman cases was not applied in
the court below, and the judgment must be
Reversed and the case remanded for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.

FARMERS AND MECHANICS SAVINGS BANK OF
MINNEAPOLIS v. STATE OF MINNESOTA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MINNESOTA.
No. 39. Argued May 8, 1913.-Decided February 24, 1914.
A question though novel itself may be solved by the application of
principles long established.
The entire independence of the General Government from any control
by the respective States is fundamental; and States may not tax
agencies of the Federal Government. M'Culloch v. Maryland, 4
Wheat. 316.
Territories are instrumentalities established by Congress for the gov-

