OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Counsel for Parties.

232 U. S.

by stipulation was submitted to the court without a jury
and the steps essential to save all the questions in the case
were properly taken. The use of the vessel during the
taxing period was shown. There was a judgment in favor
of the United States for the amount of the tax, but against
it for interest and error was prosecuted from the Circuit
Court of Appeals to review that subject and such case
is here on certificate. Taking jurisdiction of both cases
and treating them as one, as was done in the previous
cases, and applying the conclusions in those cases expressed,
to this, it results that the judgment below must be modified, so far as the interest is concerned, by allowing the
claim of the United States in that respect, and in other
respects it must be affirmed.
And it is so ordered.

PIERCE v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

UNITED STATES v. PIERCE.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND CIRCUIT.
Nos. 64 and 623.

Argued January 6, 7, 1914.-Decided February 24, 1914.

Billings v. UnitedStates, ante, p. 261, followed and distinguished, to the
effect that the owner of a foreign-built yacht is not liable for the
tax imposed by ยง 37 of the Tariff Act of 1909, if the yacht was not
actually used 4t all during the preceding year.

190 Fed. Rep. 359, reversed.
facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. William D. Guthrie, for the yacht owner in this and
other cases argued simultaneously herewith.'
THE

See argument, p. 263, ante.

PIERCE v. UNITED STATES.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Adkins, with whom Mr.
Karl W. Kirchwey was on the brief, for the United States. 1
MR. CHIEF JUSTME WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
These two cases involve the liability of the plaintiff in
error in No. 64 for a tax on the foreign-built yacht Yacona,
which became due on the first of September, 1909. The
complaint in every substantial particular was identical
with that filed in the Billings Case this day decided, and
this is true also of the defenses set up in the answer except
that the answer in this case contained this distinct averment which was not in the Billings Case: "That the said
yacht Yacona was not in use by the defendant or by any
other person at any time during the year next preceding
the first day of September, 1909, but was out of commission and laid up unused at Brooklyn in the State of New
York, throughout the whole of such year." The case
was submitted on bill and answer and the liability for
the tax which was upheld by the court below was rested
upon the construction as to potential use that is a tax on
the privilege of using which we decided in the Billings
Case to be unsound. In this case, as in that, the certificate
is concerned with a writ of error prosecuted by the United
States to the Circuit Court of Appeals because of the
rejection of a prayer for interest. Treating both the cases
in this instance as one, as we did in the previous cases,
and applying to this the construction which we have
given the statute in those cases, it follows that the judgment below was wrong and must be reversed, 'with direction to dismiss the complaint.
And it is so ordered.
See argument, p. 269, ante.

