UNITED STATES v. LEXINGTON MILL CO.
232 U. S.

399

Syllabus.

It results that the judgment of the court below must be
reversed, and the case remanded for further proceedings
in accordance with this opinion.
Reversed.

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA v. LEXINGTON
MILL & ELEVATOR COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 548. Argued January 5, 1914.-Decided February 24, 1914.
The primary purpose of Congress in enacting the Food and Drugs Act
f 1906 was to prevent injury to the public health by the sale and
transportation in interstate commerce of misbranded and adulterated food.
As against adulteration the statute was intended to protect the. public
health from possible injury by adding to articles of food consumption
poisonous and deleterious substances which might render such
articles injurious to health.
Where such a purpose has been effected by plain and unambiguous
language by an act within the power of Congress, the only duty of
the courts is to give the act effect according to its terms.
The inhibition in subdivision 5 of § 7 of the Food and Drugs Act of
1906 against the addition of any poisonous or other added deleterious
ingredient which may render an article of food injurious to health is
definitely limited to the particular class of adulteration specified, and
in order to condemn the article under subdivision 5 it is incumbent
upon the Government to establish that the added substance may
render the article injurious to health.
In subdivision 5 of § 7 of the Food and Drugs Act of 1906 the word
"may" is used in its ordinary and usual signification; and if an
article of food may not by the addition of a small amount of poison,
ous substance by any possibility injure the health of any consumer,
it may not be condemned under this subdivision of the act.
202 Fed. Rep. 615, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of subdivi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for the United States.

232 U. S.

sions 4 and 5 of § 7 of the Food and Drugs Act of 1906,
are stated in the opinion.
/
Mr. Attorney General McReynolds, with whom Mr.
Francis G. Caffey was on the brief, for the United
States:
The seized flour was adulterated within subd. 5, § 7 of
the Food and Drugs Act. French Silver Dragee Co. v.
United States, 179 Fed. Rep. 824; United States v. 1,950
Boxes of Macaroni, 181 Fed. Rep. 427; United States v.
Mayfield, 177 Fed. Rep. 765; United States v. Rosebrock
& Co., Notice of Judgment, 825; United States v. Koca
Nola Co., Notice of Judgment, 202; Friend v. Matt, 68
J. P. 589.
The Circuit Court of Appeals erred in reviewing the
weight of evidence as to whether the flour was adulterated
within subd. 4 of § 7 of the act.
The bleaching conceals newness and imparts color of
better grade and inferior flour is made to resemble patent.
Flour milled from inferior wheat is made to appear as if
milled from first-quality.
The Circuit Court of Appeals had no power to review
the jury's findings. Behn v. Campbell, 205 U. S. 403;
Lancaster v. Collins, 115 U. S. 222; Chicago & North Western Ry. Co. v. Ohle, 117 U. S. 123.
The Court of Appeals was correct in holding that there
was no error in submitting to the jury the charges of
adulteration under subd. 1 of § 7 of the act.
The Food and Drugs Act is constitutional. Hipolite
Egg Co. v. United States, 220 U. S. 45; Booth v. Illinois, 184
U. S. 425; Otis v. Parker, 187 U. S. 606; Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 678; Buttfield v. Stranahan, 192 U. S.
470; United States v. Johnson, 221 U. S. 488; Shawnee
Milling Co. v. Temple, 179 Fed. Rep. 517; United States v.
74 Cases Grape Juice, 181 Fed. Rep. 629; United States
v. 420 Sacks of Flour, 180 Fed. Rep. 518; United States v.

UNITED STATES v. LEXINGTON MILL CO. 401
232 U. S.

Argument for Respondent.

Heinle Specialty Co., 175 Fed. Rep. 299; United States v.
100 Cases of Apples, 179 Fed. Rep. 985.
Mr. Edward P. Smith and Mr. Bruce S. Elliott, with
whom Mr. Edward L. Scarritt, Mr. C. J. Smyth and Mr.
W. C. Scarritt were on the brief, for respondent:
Congress possesses no police power, and the Food and
Drugs Act, if sustained at all, must be sustained on the
ground that it is a regulation of commerce between the
States. Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141 U. S. 47; Lawton v.
Steele, 152 U. S. 133; Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1; Hannibal & St. Joe R. R. Co. v. Hewson, 95 U. S. 465; Wilkinson
v. Rahrer, 140 U. S. 545.
The power to make the ordinary regulations of police
remains with the individual States and cannot be assumed
by the National Government, and in this respect it is
not interfered with by the Fourteenth Amendment.
Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623; Plumley v. Massachusetts, 155 U. S. 461; New Orleans Gas Co. v. Louisiana
Light Co., 115 U. S. 650; United States v. Knight, 156 U. S.
1; Int. Com. Comm. v. Brimson, 154 U. S. 447; Employers'
Liability Case, 207 U. S. 463.
The Food and Drugs Act is to be regarded as an act
to regulate commerce, and the court erred in charging the
jury that the Government need not prove that the flour
in question, or foodstuffs made by the use of it, would
injure the health of the consumer; that it is the characternot the quantity-of the added substance which is to
determine this case.
Congress never intended the statute in question should
be construed as the trial court construed it in this instruction to the jury.
In the passage of this act Congress intended the words
of this section to be used as above indicated, in their usual
and ordinary sense. It was never intended by Congress
that this act should ever be construed to mean that the
VOL. ccxxxii-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Respondent.

232 U. S.

useful and harmless property of a citizen should, by the
methods providing for the prevention of the sale of harmful and injurious foods, be confiscated, condemned and
destroyed. This would be contrary to the policy and spirit
of our laws and the fundamental principles of our government. Church of Holy Trinity v. United States, 143 U. S.
457; United States v. C. & N. W. Ry. Co., 157 Fed. Rep.
618; Binns v. United States, 194 U. S. 495; Blake v. Naitl.
City Bank, 23 Wall. 307; Wadsworth v. Boysen, 148 Fed.
Rep. 771.
The language used in the act in question is not susceptible of the interpretation placed thereon by the trial
court. Montclam v. Ramsdell, 107 U. S. 147; Postmaster
Generalv. Early, 6 L. C. P. 147; 12 Wheat. 136.
In order to bring an article of food within its condemnation, it must be shown that its consumption would injure
the health of the consumer.
Giving to all the words of the statute, therefore, their
plain, usual and ordinary meaning, it is plain that the
trial court erroneously construed it. French Silver Dragee
Co. v. United States, 179 Fed. Rep. 824.
The construction contended for has been sustained by
the English courts in construing a similar statute, 38 and
39 Vict., c. 63, § 3. Friend v. Mapp, 68 J. P. 589; Hull v.
Horsnell,.68 J. P. 591.
The act as construed by the trial court is arbitrary and
an unreasonable interference with the rights of property.
Jew Ho v. Williamson, 103 Fed. Rep. 10.
If the flour did not contain anything which might
render it injurious to health, it is wholly without the
power of Congress or any other branch of the Government
to exclude it from the channels of commerce or to prohibit
its sale.
Congress has not undertaken to exclude flour such as
this from the markets. Congress only attempted to exclude from the markets such flour as may be injurious to

UNITED STATES v. LEXINGTON MILL CO. 403
232 U. S.

Argument for Respondent.

health. The trial court by its instructions forced the
condemnation and destruction of this flour, even though it
contained nothing which would in any wise render it
injurious to health. This is not the exercise of a legislative
power, but is an arbitrary and illegal taking of property
which this court has in many cases condemned. Powell v.
Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 678; Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S.
623; Schollenberger v. Pennsylvania, 171 U. S. 1; Collins
v. New Hampshire, 171 U. S. 30; Lochner v. New York,
198 U. S. 45.
There is no reasonable foundation in this case for
holding that it is necessary or appropriate to safeguard the
public health or the health of the individuals to destroy
and condemn the flour in question. State v. Layton, 160
Missouri, 474; State v. Addington, 12 Mo. App. 219; State
v. Fisher, 52 Missouri, 174; Toledo v. Jacksonville, 67
Illinois, 37; River Rendering Co. v. Behr, 77 Missouri, 9;
McConnell v. McKillipp, 71 Nebraska, 712.
The interpretation placed upon the act by the Circuit
Court of Appeals is reasonable, gives effect to all the
language contained in the act, and is the only interpretation under which its constitutionality can be sustained.
Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41; Collins v. New Hampshire, 171 U. S. 30; Interstate Drainage Co. v. Commissioners, 158 Rep. Fed. 270.
The statute in question is a penal statute, and as to the
rule applicable to the construction of such statutes see
Martin v. United States, 168 Fed. Rep. 198, 201; United
States v. Wiltberger, 5 Wheat. 77; United States V. Germaine, 99 U. S. 508; Field v. United States, 137 Fed. Rep.
6; United States v. Lake, 129 Fed. Rep. 499.
The intent of Congress, as indicated by the title of the
act, was to make the condition of the food the determining
factor of adulteration.
The principle of construction adopted by the Circuit
Court of Appeals is sustained in numerous decisions. See

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

Maillard v. Lawrence, 16 How. 251; Levy v. M'Cartee,
6 Pet. 110; Parsons v. Hunter, 2 Sumner, 422; Bernier v.
Bernier,147U. S. 246; Washington Market Co. v. Hoffman,
101 U. S. 115; United States v. Fisher, 109 U. S. 145; Lake
Superior Canal Co. v. Cunningham, 155 U. S. 380; Rhodes
v. Iowa, 170 U. S. 423; Lake County v. Rollins, 130 U. S.
,670; Hamilton v. Rathbone, 175 U. S. 421; Swarts v. Seigel,
117 Fed. Rep. 18; Glover v. United States, 164 U. S. 298;
Harless v. United States (C. C. A.), 88 Fed. Rep. 102.
The construction of the law contended for by the
Government would render contraband many admittedly
harmless articles of food. Other well known articles of
food, admittedly harmless, contain nitrites.
The Circuit Court of Appeals committed no error in sustaining respondent's contention that there was no substantial evidence to support the charge that the seized
flour was. colored in a manner whereby damage or inferiority is concealed. Naylord & Gerrardv. Alsop Process
Co., 168 Fed. Rep. 911, 915.
By leave of court, Mr. Ralph S. Rounds filed a brief
as amicus curiE.
MR. JUsTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

The petitioner, the United States of America, proceeding under § 10 of the Food and Drugs Act (June 30, 1906,
c. 3915, 34 Stat. 768, 771), by libel filed in the District
Court of the United States for the Western District of Missouri, sought to seize and condemn 625 sacks of flour in
the possession of one Terry, which had been shipped from
Lexington, Nebraska, to Castle, Missouri, and which
remained in original, unbroken packages. The judgment
of the District Court, upon verdict, in favor of the Government, was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Eighth Circuit (202 Fed. Rep. 615), and this writ of
certiorari is to review the judgment of that court.

UNITED STATES v. LEXINGTON MILL CO. 405
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The amended libel .charged that the flour had been
treated by the "Alsop Process," so called, by which
nitrogen peroxide gas, generated by electricity, was
mixed with atmospheric air and the mixture then brought
in contact with the flour, and that it was thereby adulterated under the fourth and fifth subdivisions of § 7 of
the act, namely, (1) in that the flour had been mixed,
colored and stained in a manner whereby damage and
inferiority were concealed and the flour given the appearance of a better grade of flour than it really was, and
(2) in that the flour had been caused to contain added
poisonous or other added deleterious ingredients, to-wit,
nitrites or nitrite reacting material, nitrogen peroxide,
nitrous acid, nitric acid and other poisonous and deleterious substances which might render the flour injurious
to health. The libel also charged that the flour was
adulterated under the first subdivision of § 7, and was
misbranded; but the Government does not urge these
features of the case here. The verdict was broad enough
to cover the charge under the first subdivision of § 7, but
in the view we take of the case as to the instruction of the
court under subdivision 5 it need not be noticed.
The Lexington Mill & Elevator Company, the respondent herein, appeared, claiming the flour, and answered the libel, admitting that the flour had been treated
by the Alsop Process, but denying that it had been
adulterated and attacking the constitutionality of the
act.
A special verdict to the effect that the flour was adulterated was returned and judgment of condemnation
entered. The case was taken to the Circuit Court of
Appeals upon writ of error. The respondent contended
that, among other errors, the instructions of the trial
court as to adulteration were erroneous and that the act
was unconstitutional. The Circuit Court of Appeals held
that the testimony was insufficient to show that by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

bleaching process the flour was so colored as to conceal
inferiority and was thereby adulterated, within the
provisions of subdivision 4. That court also held-and
this holding gives rise to the principal controversy herethat the trial court erred in instructing the jury that the
addition of a poisonous substance, in any quantity, would
adulterate the article, for the reason that "the possibility
of injury to health due to the added ingredient and in the
quantity in which it is added, is plainly made an essential
element of the prohibition." It did not pass upon the
constitutionality of the act, in view of its rulings on the
act's construction.
The case requires a construction of the Food and Drugs
Act. Parts of the statute pertinent to this case are:
"SEC. 7. (34 Stat. 769.) That for the purposes of this
act an article shall be deemed to be adulterated:
.
"In the case of food:
"First. If any substance has been mixed and packed
with it so as to reduce or lower or injuriously affect its
quality or strength.
"Fourth. If it be mixed; colored, powdered, coated, or
stained in a manner whereby damage or inferiority is
concealed.
"Fifth. If it contain any added poisonous or other
added deleterious ingredient which may render such
article injurious to health. .
. .
"SEC. 10. (34 Stat. 771.)
That any article of food,
drug, or liquor that is adulterated or misbranded within
the meaning of this act, and is being transported from one
State, Territory, district, or insular possession to another
for sale, or, having been transported, remains unloaded,
unsold, or in original unbroken packages, . . . shall
be liable to be proceeded against in any district court of
the United States within the district where the same is
found, and seized for confiscation by a process of libel for

UNITED STATES v. LEXINGTON MILL CO. 407
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

condemnation. And if such article is condemned as being
adulterated or misbranded, or of a poisonous or dbleterious
character, within the meaning of this act, the same shall
be disposed of by destruction or sale, as the said court may
direct."
Without reciting the testimony in detail it is enough to
say that for the Government it tended to show that the
added poisonous substances introduced into the flour by
the Alsop Process, in the proportion of 1.8 parts per
million, calculated as nitrogen, may be injurious to the
health of those who use the flour in bread and other forms
of food. On the other hand, the testimony for the respondent tended to show that the process does not add to
the flour any poisonous or deleterious ingredients which
can in any manner render it injuriousto the health of a
consumer. On these conflicting proofs the trial court was
required to submit the case to the jury. That court, after
stating the claims of the parties, the Government insisting
that the flour was adulterated and should be condemned if
it contained any added poisonous or other added deleterious ingredient of a kind or character which was capable
of rendering such article injurious to health; the respondent contending that the flour should not be condemned unless the added substances were present in such quantity
that the flour would be thereby rendered injurious to
health, gave certain instructions to the jury. Part of the
charge, excepted to by the respondent, reads:
"The fact that poisonous substances are to be found in
the bodies of human beings, in the air, in potable water,
and in articles of food, such as ham, bacon, fruits, certain
vegetables, and other articles, does not justify the adding
of the same or other poisonous substances to articles of
food, such as flour, because the statute condemns the
adding of poisonous substances. Therefore the court
charges you that the Government need not prove that
this flour or food-stuffs made by the use of it would injure

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

the health of any consumer. It is the character-not the
quantity-of the added substance, if any, which is to determine this case."
On the other hand the respondent insisted that the law
is, and requested the court to charge the jury:
"That the burden is upon the prosecution to prove me
truth of the charge in the libel, that by the treatment of
the flour in question by the said Alsop Process it has been
caused to contain added poisonous or other added deleterious ingredients, to-wit, nitrites or nitrite reacting
material, which may render said flour injurious to health.
"And in this connection you are further instructed that
it is incumbent upon the Government to prove that any
such added poisonous or other added deleterious ingredients, if any contained in said flour, are of such a character and contained in the flour seized in such quantities, conditions and amounts as may render said flour injurious to
health, and unless you find that all of such facts are so
proven you cannot find against the claimant or condemn
the flour in question under that charge in the libel, and
if you fail to so find your verdict upon that count or
charge in the libel must be in favor of the claimant or defendant.
"The law does not prohibit the adding of nitrites or
nitrite reacting ,material to flour, and a jury cannot find
for the Government or against the claimant, even if it be
shown that nitrites or nitrite reacting material was added
to the flour in question, unless they believe from a preponderance of the evidence that such addition, if any,
rendered said flour injurious to the health of those who
might consume the bread or other foods made from said
flour."

It is evident from the charge given and requests refused
that the trial court regarded the addition to the flour of any
poisonous ingredient as an offense within this statute, no

UNITED STATES v. LEXINGTON MILL CO. 409
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

matter how small the quantity, and whether the flour
might or might not injure the health of the consumer. At
least such is the purport of the part of the charge above
given, and if not correct, it was clearly misleading, notwithstanding other parts of the charge seem to recognize
that in order to prove adulteration it is necessary to show
that the flour may be injurious to health. The testimony
shows that the effect of the Alsop Process is to bleach or
whiten the flour and thus make it more marketable. If
the testimony introduced on the part of the respondent
was believed by the jury they must necessarily have found
that the added ingredient, nitrites of a poisonous character, did not have the effect to make the consumption of
the flour by any possibility injurious to the health of the
consumer.
The statute upon its face shows, that the primary purpose of Congress was to prevent injury to the public health
by the sale and transportation in interstate commerce of
misbranded and adulterated foods. The legislation, as
against misbranding, intended to make it possible that
the consumer should know that an article purchased was
what it purported to be; that it might be bought for what
it really was and not upon misrepresentations as to character and quality. As against adulteration, the statute
was intended to protect the public health from possible
injury by adding to articles of food consumption poisonous
and deleterious substances which might render such articles injurious to the health of consumers. If this purpose
has been effected by plain and unambiguous language, and
the act is within the power of Congress, the only duty of
the courts is to give it effect according to its terms. This
principle has been frequently recognized in this court.
Lake County v. Rollins, 130 U. S. 662, 670:
"Where a law is expressed in plain and unambiguous
terms, whether those terms are general or limited, the
legislature should be intended to mean what they have

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

plainly expressed, and consequently no room is left for
construction."
Hamilton v. Rathbone, 175 U. S. 414, 421:
"The cases are so numerous in this court to the effect
that the province of construction lies wholly within the
domain of ambiguity, that an extended review of them is
quite unnecessary."
Furthermore all the words used in the statute should
be given their proper signification and effect; Washington
Market Co. v. Hoffman, 101 U. S. 112, 115:
"We are not at liberty," said Mr. Justice Strong, "to
construe any statute so as to deny effect to any part of its
language. It is a cardinal rule of statutory construction
that significance and effect shall, if possible, be accorded
to every word. As early as in Bacon's Abridgment, sec. 2,
it was said that 'a statute ought, upon the whole, to be so
construed that, if it can be prevented, no clause, sentence,
or word, shall be superfluous, void, or insignificant.' This
rule has been repeated innumerable times."
Applying these well-known principles in considering this
statute, we find that the fifth subdivision of § 7 provides
that food shall be deemed to be adulterated: "If it contain
any added poisonous or other added deleterious ingredient
which may render such article injurious to health." The
instruction of the trial court permitted this statute to be
read without the final and qualifying words, concerning
the effect of the article upon health. If Congress had so
intended the provision would have stopped with the condemnation of food which contained any added poisonous
or other added deleterious ingredient. In other words, the
first and familiar consideration is that, if Congress had
intended to enact the statute in that form, it would have
done so by choice of apt words to express that intent. It
did not do so, but only condemned food containing an
added poisonous or other added deleterious ingredient
when such addition might render the article of food in-

UNITED STATES v. LEXINGTON MILL CO.
232 U. S.

411

Opinion of the Court.

jurious to the health. Congress has here, in this statute,
with its penalties and forfeitures definitely outlined its
inhibition against a particular class of adulteration.
It is not required that the article of food containing
added poisonous or other added deleterious ingredients
must affect the public health, and it is not incumbent
upon the Government in order to make out a case to
establish that fact. The act has placed upon the Government the burden of establishing, in order to secure a verdict of condemnation under this statute, that the added
poisonous or deleterious substances must be such as may
render such article injurious to health. The word "may"
is here used in its ordinary and usual signification, there
being nothing to show the intention of Congress to affix to
it any other meaning. It is, says Webster, "an auxiliary
verb, qualifying the meaning of another verb, by expressing ability,

.

.

., contingency or liability, or possibility

or probability," In thus describing the offense Congress
doubtless took into consideration that flour may be used
in many ways, in bread, cake, gravy, broth, etc. It may
be consumed, when prepared as a food, by the strong and
the weak, the old and the young, the well and the sick; and
it is intended that if any flour, because of any added
poisonous or other deleterious ingredient, may possibly
injure the health of any of these, it shall come within the
ban of the statute. If it cannot by any possibility, when
the facts are reasonably considered, injure the health of
any consumer, such flour, though having a small addition
of poisonous or deleterious ingredients, may not be condemned under the act. This is the plain meaning of the
words and in our view needs no additional support by
reference to reports and debates, although it may be said
in passing that the meaning which we have given to the
statute was well expressed byMr. Heyburn, chairman of
the committee having it in ciarge upon the floor of the
Senate (Congressional Record, vol. 40, pt. 2, p. 1131):

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

"As to the use of the term 'poisonous,' let me state that
everything which contains poison is not poison. It depends on the quantity and the combination. A very large
majority of the things consumed by the human family contain, under analysis, some kind of poison, but it depends
upon the combination, the chemical relation which it
bears to the body in which it exists as to whether or not
it is dangerous to take into the human system."
And such is the view of the English courts construing a
similar statute. The English statute provides (§ 3, of the
Sale of Food and Drugs Act, 1875):
"No person shall mix, color, .
. . or order or permit any other person to mix, color, . . . any article
of food with any ingredient or material so as to render the
article injurious to health."
That section was construed in Hull v. Horsnell, 68 J. P.
591, which involved preserved peas, the color of which
had been retained by the addition of sulphate of copper,
charged to be a poisonous substance and injurious to
health. There was a conviction in the lower court. Lord
Alverstone, C. J., in reversing and remitting the case on
appeal, said:
"In my opinion, if the justices convicted the appellant
of an offence under § 3 of the Sale of Food and Drugs Act,
1875, on the ground that the ingredient mixed with the
article of food was injurious to health,-that the sulphate
of copper was injurious to health, and not on the ground
that the peas by reason of the addition of sulphate of copper were rendered injurious to health, the conviction is
clearly wrong. To constitute an offence under the latter
part of § 3 the article of food sold must, by the addition of
an ingredient, be rendered injurious to health. All the
circumstances must be examined to see whether the article
of food has been rendered injurious to health."
We reach the conclusion that the Circuit Court of Appeals did not err in reversing the judgment of the Dis-

RUBBER TIRE CO. v. GOODYEAR CO.
232 U. S.

Syllabus.

trict Court for error in its charge with reference to subdivision five of § 7.
The Circuit Court of Appeals reached the conclusion
that there was no substantial proof to warrant the conviction under the fourth subdivision of § 7, that the flour was
mixed, colored and stained in a manner whereby damage
and inferiority was concealed. As the case is to be retried
to a jury, we say nothing upon this point.
As to the objection on constitutional grounds, it is not
contended that the statute as construed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals and this court is unconstitutional.

It follows that the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals reversing the judgment of the District Court must
be affirmed, and the case remanded to the District Court
for a new trial.

Affirmed.
RUBBER TIRE WHEEL COMPANY v. GOODYEAR
TIRE AND RUBBER COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 37.

Argued May 7, 1913.-Decided February 24, 1914.

In Diamond Rubber Co. v. Consolidated Rubber Tire Co., 220 U. S. 428,
the Grant tire patent was sustained as a patentable combination,
not as a mere aggregation of elements but as a new combination of
parts co-acting so as to produce a new and useful result; nor did the
patentability depend on the novelty of any of the elements entering
into it.
Where the combination is protected by such a patent, one manufacturing it by assembling the various elements and effecting the combination is not entitled to immunity from prosecution for infringing because he purchases one element from a party who is immune under
a provision in a decree permitting it to sell the patented article itself.
Kessler v. Eldred, 206 U. S. 285, distinguished.
In this case held, that the immunity given by a provision in a decree to
a specified party manufacturing and selling an article as a patentable

