OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

232 U. S.

non obstante veredicto, it is apparent in view of the recent
decision in Slocum v. Insurance Company, 228 U. S. 364,
that error was committed. It follows that our duty is to
affirm and modify; that is, to affirm the judgment of
reversal and to modify by reversing so much of the action
of the court below as directed the entry of a judgment in
favor of the defendant. Conformably to this conclusion
it is ordered that the judgment of reversal be, and the
same is hereby affirmed, and that the direction for entry
of judgment in favor of defendant be reversed and the
case is remanded to the trial court with directions to set
aside its judgment and grant a new trial.
Affirmed and modified.

PRIEST v. TRUSTEES OF THE TOWN OF LAS
VEGAS, NEW MEXICO.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
NEW MEXICO.
No. 218.

Submitted January 28, 1914.-Decided March 9, 1914.

A judgment in a suit to quiet title to real property in New Mexico is
not binding on a person or corporation or trustees having an interest
in the premises who could be definitely located and served with
process and who were not joined by name. The court did not acquire
jurisdiction over them.
The statutes of New Mexico which, in 1894, permitted unknown
claimants to be joined as defendants as such and to be served by
publication, did not relate to parties who could be definitely located
and joined or who were confirmees of the grant including the property under the act of June 21, 1860.
In affirming a judgment, an appellate court is not confined to the
grounds on which the court below based the judgment.
The full faith and credit clause and statutes enacted thereunder do
not apply to judgments rendered by a court having no jurisdiction

PRIEST v. LAS VEGAS.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the parties or subject-matter or of the res in proceedings in rem.
Thompson v. Thompson, 226 U. S. 551, distinguished.
A town in New Mexico and its inhabitants are substantial entities in
fact, and in this case have been recognized by Congress as having
rights to be authenticated by a patent. When a town is a patentee
it represents not only individual, but collective, interests. Maese v.
Herman, 183 U. S. 572.
Proceedings against some of the inhabitants of a town held in this case
not to bind the other inhabitants individually, or collectively as a
town, on the ground of privity.
16 New Mex. 692, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of statutes of
New Mexico in regard to serving process in real estate action on unknown defendants and the effect of a judgment
based on service by publication, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. John D. W. Veeder for appellants.
Mr. Charles A. Spiess and Mr. S. B. Davis, Jr., for
appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Action for mandamus brought by appellants in the
District Court of the county of San Miguel, then in the
Territory of New Mexico, against appellees as trustees of
the town of Las Vegas to require them to execute a deed or
deeds to the property described in the petition. The
appellees filed an answer to the petition and also a counterclaim. Those papers set out the history of the Las Vegas
grant, preceding and subsequent to its confirmation by
the act of Congress hereinafter referred to and the final
patent to the town. Motions to strike them out were
overruled, and demurrers to them were also overruled.
An answer having been filed to the counter-claim by appellants, portions of which were struck out by the court

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

on motion of appellees, after hearing judgment was
rendered dismissing the petition. The judgment was
affirmed by the Supreme Court of the Territory.
The petition alleges appellants to be the owners in fee
simple and holders of a perfect title to the land described
therein and that it lies within the boundaries of "The
La's Vegas Land Grant." That they acquired the title
thereto between October 4, 1888, and July 1, 1894, by
purchase from the then owners and occupants of the
several portions comprising the tract and obtained deeds
of conveyance therefor and afterwards instituted proceedings in the District Court of San Miguel County
against certain named persons "and all the unknown
claimants of interests in the lands and premises" adverse
to appellants, to quiet their title to the lands, and that on
September 15, 1894, a decree was duly entered in the cause
confirming and establishing in them- an estate in fee simple, absolute, against any and all and every adverse claim
of all persons whomsoever, and quieting and setting at
rest the title to the land against appellees. A copy of the
decree is attached to the petition.
. The petition also alleges that the Las Vegas grant was
confirmed by act of Congress on June 21, 1860, to the
town of Las Vegas and became thereby segregated from
the public domain and the property of the grantee and its
privies.
That Jefferson Reynolds, Eugenio Romero, Charles
Ilfeld, Elisha V. Long, Isidor V. Gallegos, Felix Esquibel
and F. H. Pierce are the trustees of the. town, duly appointed by the District Court of San Miguel County under
and by virtue of an act of the Legislative Assembly of the
Territory of New Mexico entitled "An Act to Provide for
the Management of the Las Vegas Grant, and for other
purposes," approved March 12, 1903, and that it was made
the*duty of the board of trustees to make, execute and
deliver deeds of conveyance to all persors who held a

PRIEST v. LAS VEGAS.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

title to any lands of the grant, which became or was perfect or entitled thein to the possession thereof at the time
of the acquisition of New Mexico, under the treaty of
Guadalupe Hidalgo, or at any time subsequent thereto.
That appellants made application to the board of
trustees to execute and deliver a deed to them of the tract
of land described, the title to which had become perfected by the decree hereinbefore specified, but the board
declined to recognize the title of appellants and to.issue thee
deed of conveyance asked for.
Mandamus, directed to the board, was prayed.
The ground of appellants' petition, therefore, is that,
they possess a perfect title established by the suit and
decree referred to which entitled them to a deed from the
trustees under the act of the Legislative Assembly of
March 12, 1903. Laws of New Mexico, 1903, 72. That
act becomes a factor for consideration. By it the District
Court of San Miguel County is vested with jurisdiction to
manage, control and administer the land grant. In the
exercise of such jurisdiction power is conferred to appoint
a board of trustees from among the residents upon the
grant. Provision is made for their organization, and the
court is empowered to exercise the same control over their
acts as courts of equity exercise over receivers. And it is
provided that "this act shall not interfere with or prej udice any vested rights in and to any of the lands embraced within the boundaries of said Las Vegas Grant, or
preclude a judicial examination or adjustment thereof,
and it is hereby made the duty of said board of trustees to
make, execute and deliver deeds of conveyance to any and
all persons who hold a title to any such lands, which became or was perfect or entitled them to the possession
thereof at the time of the acquisition of New Mexico,
under the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, or at any other,
time subsequent thereto." (§ 7.)
By § 9 the board has power, under the direction of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

court, to lease, sell or mortgage any part or parts of the
grants, the proceeds to be used "for such purposes as
said board and court may deem to be for the best interests
of the community for the benefit of which said grant was
made."
It will be seen, therefore, that the statute makes it the
duty of the trustees, it may be under the direction of the
court, to execute and deliver deeds of conveyance to any
one having the kind of title described, that is, which had
become or was perfect or entitled such person to land
which he claimed at the time of the acquisition of New
Mexico, under the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, or at any
other time subsequent thereto. Appellants rely upon
such title, as we have seen, as established by the suit to
quiet title and the decree rendered therein. A consideration of this suit and decree, therefore, becomes necessary.
The suit was brought in the District Court of San Miguel
County, Territory of New Mexico, by appellants against
certain named defendants and "all the unknownclaimants
of interests in the premises and lands" which were described. The complaint alleged that appellants were
owners in fee simple and the occupants and possessors of
the land, that it lay within the exterior boundaries of a
grant of land made by the Mexican Government to certain named parties in the year 1835 "for the use and
benefit of the inhabitants and settlers of the Town of Las
Vegas"; that the grant was known in the archives of the
Surveyor General of New Mexico as private land claim
number 20 and, as such, on June 21, 1860, duly confirmed
by act of Congress of the United States to the Town of
Las Vegas, and thereby became segregated from the public
domain. That the land described in the complaint as
belonging to appellants was taken possession of by them
and their grantors under and by virtue of the terms and
provisions of the said Las Vegas grant, and the laWs of the
Territory of New Mexico applicable thereto, more than

PRIEST v. LAS VEGAS.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ten years prior to the commencement of the suit, and that
they and their grantors from whom they claim title and
from whom they have deeds of conveyance have been in
the actual, exclusive, open and uninterrupted adverse
possession under claim of title and have therefore a good
and indefeasible title in fee simple to the land and are
entitled to occupy and hold possession thereof.
It was alleged that certain persons, naming them, made
some claim adverse to the complainants in the suit (appellants here), but what the nature and extent of their claim
was complainants were unable to state. And it was alleged
that there were certain unknown successors of the Fairview
Town Company who made some claim of interest in and
title 'to the land, but the nature and extent of the claim
was unknown.
Then the following was alleged: "That your orators are
credibly informed and believe that certain unknown persons, designated in this bill as 'Unknown Claimants of
interest in the premises adverse to your orators' also make
some claim of interest and title in and to the said tract of
land adverse to the estate of your orators, but what the
nature and extent of the said claim of said unknown persons in and to the said tract of land is, is likewise to your
orators unknown."
It was finally alleged that all of the claims and pretenses
of the defendants in the suit, known and unknown, adverse to the estate of complainants were of no avail
against their title and constituted a cloud upon it. It was
prayed that the title of complainants be .established
against all of the defendants and that it be forever quieted
and set at rest, and process was prayed.
An affidavit for publication of process was filed in which
it was recited among other things "that the place of
residence is unknown and the whereabouts cannot be discovered of any and all of the defendants designated as
unknown claimants of interests in the premises and lands
VOL. ccxxxni-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Ocurt.

232 U. S.

described in the bill of complaint, who claim adversely to
the complainants, George E. Priest, Melvin W. Quick and
Charles M. Benjamin."
Publication was made. There was no appearance on
the part of any of the defendants, and the bill of complaint was ordered to be taken as confessed; and it was
decreed that all of the defendants were brought before the
court by proper process and that.the court had jurisdiction of them, whether known or unknown, and jurisdiction
of the subject-matter of the suit; that the land lay within
the exterior boundaries of the Las Vegas grant, as described, was confirmed by Congress as alleged, and that in
consequence of the grant and confirmation the land was
segregated from the public domain and became and was
the private property of the grantees and their privies.
That the complainants in the suit and their grantors from
whom they claimed and from whom they had deeds of
cqnveyance were in the adverse possession of the land as
alleged and that as a consequence thereof complainants
were entitled to the relief for which they prayed. And it
was decreed that the right, title and interest of complainants was an estate in fee simple absolute and that
the same be established in them and that the defendants
be barred and estopped from having or claiming or asserting any right, title, or interest whatsoever adverse to the
complainants or any of them and that their title to the
land, and each and every part thereof, be forever quieted
and set at rest.
It will be observed that the title set up by appellants in
the suit to quiet title and sustained by the decree depended
upon adverse possession-in other words, upon the
statute of limitations; and the, trial court in the case at
bar considered that aspect of the case and decree only
and found that the statute did not begin to run until
after the passage of the act of 1903 and the appointment
of the board of trustees and that possession of appellants

PRIEST v. LAS VEGAS.
232 U. S. -

Opinion of the Court.

and their predecessors in title for a period of ten years
prior to the act and the appointment of the trustees could
not ripen any title against appellees.
The court, therefore, adjudged that the decree in favor
of appellants of September 15, 1894, quieting title in
them was not binding upon appellees and the petition
herein was dismissed.
The Supreme Court, however, considered this position
untenable, saying that if "the court had jurisdiction, as
against defendants, to render the decree of 1894, all the
findings upon which that decree proceeds are likewise
conclusive against it and it avails nothing to inquire, as
did the trial court, into whether such findings were as%a
matter of fact properly made," p. 694. And the court
said, "The whole question, therefore, is whether the proceedings of 1894 bind the present defendants," the board
of trustees of the town of Las Vegas.
The court answered the question in the negative, basing
the answer on the provisions of the laws of the Territory.
Sections 4010 and 4011 of the Compiled Laws of 1897 1 of
the Territory, the court said, provide for an action to quiet
title to real property and permit the complainant to make
parties, "by their names as near as the same can be
ascertained," those who claim an interest adverse to him,
the unknown heirs of any deceased person who made
claim in his lifetime "and all unknown persons who may
claim any interest or title adverse to plaintiff,
unknown heirs by the style of unknown heirs of such deceased person, and said unknown person who may claim
an interest or title adverse to plaintiff by the name and
style of unknown claimants of interests in the premises
adverse to the plaintiff, and service of process on, and
notice of said suit against, defendants, shall be made in
the same manner as now provided by law in other civil
I Identic

reenactment of §§ 1, 2, c. 6, act of April 2, 1884.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

suits," p.695. Service by publication, the court said, is provided by § 2964 1and may be ordered upon a sworn pleading or affidavit "showing that the defendant, or any one or
more of them in said cause, resides, or has gone out of the
Territory, has concealed himself within it, has avoided
service of process on him, or is in any other manner so situated that process cannot be served upon him or them, or
that his or their names, or place of residence, is unknown, or
that his or their whereabouts cannot be discovered," p. 696.
The provisions of these sections, appellants contended,
were pursued by them in their suit to quiet title, and,
after citing them, as we have said, and the allegations of
the bill of complaint therein, the court considered the
effect of the decree therein upon the board of trustees of
the town of Las Vegas, appellees herein, and said, "The
Board was not eo nomine a party, nor, indeed, was it in
existence in 1894. Any effect of the decree upon it must,
therefore, result from its holding under some party to the
cause. That it does not hold under any of the individuals
named is conceded. That it is not affected by the futile
provision of the decree quieting title against 'any person
whatsoever' is evident. The only remaining alternative
is that it is bound because of the fact that 'all the unknown
claimants of interests in the premises adverse to complainants,' are named in the complaint, were cited in the
publication and were decreed against in the court's disposition of the case and that this was a binding adjudication
against defendant under Compiled Laws, 4011, above
quoted. But, in 1894, were the owners of the Las Vegas
grant, whom defendant now represents, unknown owners? The complainants certainly knew the exact status
of the matter, for their complaint, as we have seen, in
terms alleged that the premises were a part of the Las
Vegas grant 'on June 21, 1860, duly confirmed by Act of
Congress of the United States to the Town of Las Vegas."'
Based on § 1, c. 16, act of January 2, 1879.

PRIEST v. LAS VEGAS.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"The complainants thus knew that the Town of Las
Vegas was the confirmee of the grant and that if complainants' title had, by adverse possession, been wrested
from any one it was from such confirmee. Knowing this,
we are of the opinion that it was their duty to have made
the Town of Las Vegas a party, and that the term 'unknown owners' could not be utilized to divest title from
what the Act of Congress, no less than plaintiffs' conceded knowledge, told them was the true ownership of
the property," p. 697. The court commented upon the
abuse which may be made of statutes providing for constructive service and the necessity to so construe them as
"to hold that where the real owner may be brought into
court by name his property may not be taken by an
advertisement against unknown owners" and that where,
"as in this case, the locus of the title is definitely declared
of record and such is confessedly known to the complainant, it is but an exaction of good faith that the
holder of such title should be summoned by name in order
that he may appear and defend. To exact less is to
open the doors wide to insidious attacks upon property
rights, and, indeed, to ignore the statute, which in terms
provides, (Comp. Laws, § 4011)'that persons claiming interests 'may be made parties defendant by their names,
as near as the same can be ascertained,' p. 698.
To the contention that the designation of ownership of
the Las Vegas grant as "unknown claimants" was justified because the Town of Las Vegas, as used in the act of
confirmation, was a mere aggregation of people without
corporate organization, and that the suit became one
practically against the individuals residing on the grant
and that as to these the designation of unknown owners
was necessary and proper, the court said it was not impressed, nor by the other contention that there was no
officer upon whom process could have been served, and
replied to the first contention, as it said it was replied in

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

Maese v. Herman, 183 U. S. 572, that 'the town and its
inhabitants were certainly substantial entities in fact and
were recognized by Congress a- having rights and directed
such rights to be authenticated b .,patent of the United
States.' To the second contention the obvious answer was
that under § 2964, supra, then in force, service by publication could have been made, "since in that event the
defendant 'was so situated that process could not otherwise be served upon it,"' p. 699.
We have quoted thus at length from the opinion of the
Supreme Court because necessarily the contention of
appellants that the town was properly hnpleaded and
properly served under the designation of "unknown
claimants of interests" depends upon the local statutes,
to the construction of which by the Supreme Court we
have repeatedly decided we defer. In this case the deference is the more justified, if indeed it is not compelled, by
the subsequent construction of the statutes in the same
way by the Supreme Court of the State in Rodriguez v.
La Cueva Ranch Co., 134 Pac. Rep. 228, in which case
§ 3181 of the Compiled Laws of New Mexico was considered. By that section it is provided that in suits for
partition all persons interested in the premises "whose
names are unknown, may be made parties to such partition by the name and description of unknown owners or
proprietors of the premises, or as unknown heirs of any
person who may have been interested in the same." Persons who were in actual possession had not been made
parties by name, and the question was whether they
were made parties under the designation of "unknown
owners." The question was determined in the negative,
the court holding "that it was not the intention of the
Legislature to provide for the making of parties by the
name of unknown owners, and for the service of process
upon them by publication, when they in fact were in the
open and notorious adverse possession of a ,part of the

PRIEST v. LAS VEGAS.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

premises," p. 230. The court further said that the complainants in the suit had the means and it was their duty
to ascertain the names of all persons actually holding
adverse possession, and that it was not the intention of the
legislature to allow the rights of claimants to land in such
circumstances "to be foreclosed of their rights by a proceeding in which they are not named, and in which the
only service obtained upon them was by publication,"
p. 230. The court cited the decision in the case at bar in
support of its conclusion, saying, after noting certain
differences which strengthened that decision, "In principle we can see no difference between the two cases. In that
case the court was construing the statutes of the Territory
in regard to proceedings to quiet title, which are in substance and effect the same as the partition statute in
regard to proceedings against unknown owners, and held
that such statutes must be strictly construed, and that
the decree in that case was unavailing as against the town
of Las Vegas," p. 230. Other cases were cited, among
them being American Land Co. v. Zeiss, 219 U. S. 47. It is
not necessary to review them as the construction of the
court of the local statute is that it requires the parties
defendant in an action to quiet title to be designated "by
their names, as near as they can be ascertained" and
permits parties defendant to be designated as "unknown
claimants" only when their names cannot be ascertained.
In other words, requires them to be unknown in fact,
not merely in designation. Any, other conclusion would
make the statute not a facility for removing clouds from
titles but for putting clouds upon them, and the accommodation of the law of its process to an exceptional condition
could 'be perverted, and rights divested by a semblance of
notice of adverse claims to them.
It is contended, however, that the distinction which
the Supreme Court of the Territory made between the
findings of the trial court in the proceedings of 1894, as to

616

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

jurisdiction, and findings as to other matters in issue is
without foundation, and that "the question of the jurisdiction of the defendants through service by publication
having been adjudicated in the decree of 1894" is conclusive "and not subject to attack in this collateral proceeding, whether as a matter of fact it was in issue or
not." To sustain the contention Thompson v. Thompson,
226 U. S. 551, is cited. The case was concerned with the
faith and credit to be given to a decree of divorce rendered
upon service by publication. The publication was attacked because based on an affidavit made on information
and belief, and it was hence contended that the court
had not acquired jurisdiction. The contention was held
untenable, the court saying that if the affidavit could be
regarded as defective it was not in the omission to state a
material fact but in the degree of proof, and that therefore the resulting judgment could not be said to be void
on its face. The principle was declared, however, to be
established that the full faith and credit clause and the
"statute enacted thereunder do not apply to judgments
rendered by a court having no jurisdiction of the parties
or subject-matter, or of the res in proceedings in rem.
The case at bar is, therefore, clearly distinct from that
case. The Town of Las Vegas at the time of the institution
of the suit to quiet title and of the publication of process
was, whether regarded as an entity separate from its inhabitants or collectively as composed of them, either not intended to be made a party under the designation "unknown
claimants of interest" or the designation was untrue.
But it is further contended that service by publication
was not an issue in this case, the pleadings and the decision
of the trial court being based upon the view "that the
status of the town was such that no rights by limitation
could be adjudicated against it, because of the impossibility of serving it with legal process;" and that the
Supreme Court having found against appellants on that

PRIEST v. LAS VEGAS.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

contention there was nothing left but to reverse the judgment of the trial court and remand the cause with instructions to grant the writ prayed for. The Supreme
Court could not, it was further contended, go outside
of the record and of its own motion raise the issue as to the
sufficiency of the service upon the defendants, that. issue
being in express language exeluded by appellees from the
court's consideration. The answer is immediate. We
know of no rule which precludes an appellate court deciding a case for other reasons than those expressed by
the trial court, and the contention that the sufficiency of
the service was withdrawn from the consideration of the
court by appellees is not justified. It is based upon the
averment of the town that neither at the time of the
confirmation of the grant nor at any time subsequent
thereto did it have a representative upon whom legal
process could have been served, until the ninth of December, 1902, when the board of trustees was appointed.
The Supreme Court dealt with the fact, and, as we have
seen, ascribed a different effect to it than that ascribed
by the trial court. The Supreme Court said, there being
no officer of the town upon whom process could have been
served, service by publication could have been made
''since in that event the defendant 'was so situated that
process could not otherwise be served upon it."' But
the court was of the view, as we have seen, that such fact
did not authorize the town to be made defendant under
the name of "unknown claimants" or cited as such by
publication, and the town having, been so named, the
decree of 1894 was not binding upon it.
The next contention of appellants is that the inhabitants
of the town and appellees are privies in estate and are
bound by the decree quieting title. In other words, that
there was such identity of interest between the defendants in the suit to quiet title and the present appellees, the
board of trustees, that the latter is bound by thq decree.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

The argument is that the town was the mere representative
of the inhabitants and that the non-appointment of some
one to represent it "cannot operate to suspend either the
institution or prosecution of legal proceedings against the
trust estate or to discharge either the trust estate or the
beneficiaries from the effect of the judgment rendered,
when the latter have been made parties and served with
legal process." In other words, if we understand the contention, it is that the proceedings of 1894, being against
some of the inhabitants of the town, bind all of the other
inhabitants, considered as an entity or collectively. We
need not pause to consider the soundness of the contention.
If justified at all, it would seem to make unnecessary the
present petition. It puts out of view besides the effect
of the confirmation to the town. We said, in Maese v.
Herman, supra, "The town and its inhabitants were
certainly substantial entities in fact, and were recognized
by Congress as having rights, and directed such rights to
be authenticated by a patent of the United States." The
town was the confirmee and represented, it may be,
individual interests, but collective interests as well. It
was because of the grant to the town that the act of March
12, 1903, supra, was enacted giving the District Court of
San Miguel County "jurisdiction to manage, control and
administer" the grant. It was in the execution of this
jurisdiction that the appellees, trustees of the town, were
appointed and given the power to make conveyances to
individuals if they had the character of title described.
But the town also had rights, and, as we have seen, by
§ 9 of the act of March 12, 1903, the trustees were given
power "to lease, sell or mortgage any part or parts of the
grant." See as to rights which towns had under the
Mexican law, United States v. Pico, 5 Wall. 536; Townsend v. Greeley, 5 Wall. 326; United States v. Santa Fe,
165 U. S. 675.
Judgment affirmed.

