UNITED STATES v. BEATTY.
232 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

UNITED STATES v. BEATTY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 555.

Argued January 12, 13, 1914.-Decided February 24, 1914.

A judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals, reversing a judgment of
the District Court which confirmed an award- of commissioners in
condemnation proceedings by the United States and vacating that
award and requiring the compensation to be ascertained through a
trial by jury, is not a final judgment but essentially interlocutory and
not reviewable by this court.
A writ of error to review such a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is premature and must be dismissed; if the judgment is erroneous and ultimately operates prejudicially to the Government, it may
have the error corrected by writ of error from this 'court after the case
has proceeded to final judgment in the Circuit Court of Appeals.
If a case can be brought to this court by appeal or writ of error under
§ 241, Judicial Code, it cannot be brought here by certiorari under
§ 240, Judicial Code; the two methods of review are not co-existent.
The power given to this court by § 262, Judicial Code (§ 719, Rev.
Stat.), contemplates the employment of the writ of certiorari in
instances not covered by § 240, Judicial Code.
A decision by the Circuit Court of Appeals that the provision in the
Seventh Amendment preserving the right of trial by jury applies to
a proceeding to condemn land and remanding the case to the District Court for further proceedings in accord with that decision, is
an exercise of undoubted jurisdiction whether right or wrong, and
if wrong and ultimately operating to the prejudice of the Government
it can be reviewed and corrected by this court on writ of error from
the final judgment, but not from the interlocutory judgment.
Interlocutory judgments frequently become of no importance by reason
of the final result or of intervening matters.

Writ of error to review, 203 Fed. Rep. 620, dismissed and petition for
writ of certiorari denied.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court to
review judgments of the Circuit Courts of Appeals, are
stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

The Solicitor General,with whom Mr. W. C. Herron was
on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. E. Hilton Jackson and Mr. D. C. O'Flaherty,with
whom Mr. E. H. Jackson was on the brief, for defendants
inerror.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
This was a statutory proceeding by the United States to
acquire for public use, by condemnation under judicial
process, certain land in Warren County, in the Western
District of Virginia. It was based upon two congressional
enactments: one, a provision in the Army Appropriation
Act of March 3, 1911, c. 209, 36 Stat. 1037, 1049, appropriating "not to exceed two hundred thousand dollars for
the purchase of land accessible to the horse-raising section
of the State of Virginia, for the assembling, grazing, and
training of horses purchased for the mounted service;
and the other, the act of August 1, 1888, c. 728, 25 Stat.
357, which reads as follows:
"That in every case in which the Secretary of the
Treasury or any other officer of the Government has
been, or hereafter shall be, authorized to procure real
estate for the erection of a public building or for other
public uses he shall be, and hereby is, authorized to acquire
the same for the United States by condemnation, under
judicial process, whenever in his opinion it is necessary or
advantageous to the Government to do so, and the United
States circuit or district courts of the district wherein such
real estate is located, shall have jurisdiction of proceedings
for such condemnation, and it shall be the duty of the
Attorney-General of the United States, upon every application of the Secretary of the Treasury, under this act, or
such other officer, to cause proceedings to be commenced

UNITED STATES v. BEATTY.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

for condemnation, within thirty days from the receipt of
the application at the Department of Justice.
"SEc. 2. The practice, pleadings, forms and modes of
proceeding in causes arising under the provisions of this
act shall conform, as near as may be, to the practice,
pleadings, forms and proceedings existing at the time in
like causes in the courts of record of the State within which
such circuit or district courts are held, any rule of the
court to the contrary notwithstanding."
The proceeding was initiated, under the Attorney
General's direction, by a petition filed in the District
Court of the United States for the district wherein the
land is situate, praying for the appointment of commissioners, according to the law of the State, to ascertain the
just compensation to be paid. Due notice having been
given, the owners appeared and interposed objections to
the proceeding; all of which having been considered and
overruled, an order was entered appointing commissioners
agreeably to the prayer in the petition and to the state
statute. The commissioners viewed the land, heard the
evidence, fixed the compensation at upwards of $30,000,
and returned into the, District Court a report of their
proceedings and ascertainment. Exceptions to the report
were filed by the owners and,, after a hearing, were overruled; whereupon a judgment was entered confirming the
report. 198 Fed. Rep. 284. The owners carried the cause
to the Circuit Court of Appeals, and that court, being of
opinion that the Seventh Amendment to the Constitution,
preserving the right of trial by jury, embraces such a
proceeding, reversed the judgment, with a direction that
the compensation be determined upon a trial before a
common-law jury. 203 Fed. Rep. 620. The United States
then sued out the present writ of error, and subsequently
presented a petition praying that the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals be reviewed upon writ of certiorari,
if the writ of error should be regarded as premature.
VOL.

ccxxxii-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

Consideration of this petition was postponed to the hearing upon the writ of error.
As the proceeding was begun by the United States and
the amount in controversy greatly exceeds $1,000, besides costs, there can be no doubt that the case is one in
which a final judgment in the Circuit Court of Appeals
may be reviewed by this court upon a writ of error.
Judicial Code, §§ 128, 241. But the judgment rendered
in that court is not final either in form or substance. It
reverses the judgment in the District Court, vacates the
commissioners' award, and requires that the compensation be ascertained anew through a trial by jury. Thus,
it puts at large the principal matter in controversy And
refers it to the District Court for solution in the mode
indicated. It is therefore essentially interlocutory and
cannot be the subject of a writ of error from this court.
Tracy v. Holcombe, 24 How. 426; Macfarland v. Brown,
187 U. S. 239; United States v. Krall, 174 U. S. 385; German National Bank v. Speckert, 181 U. S. 405, 409. If it
be erroneous and ultimately operates prejudicially to the
United States the latter may, of course, secure its correction by a writ of error from this court, but not until the
case proceeds to a final judgment in the Circuit Court of
Appeals. United States v. Denver & Rio Grande R. R.
Co., 191 U. S. 84, 93; Messenger v. Anderson, 225 U. S.
436, 444; Zeckendorf v. Steinfeld, 225 U. S. 445, 454; Union
Trust Co. v. Westhus, 228 U. S. 519, and cases cited. Being premature, the writ of error must be dismissed.
The power conferred upon this court by § 240 of the
Judicial Code to require, by writ of certiorari, that cases
in the Circuit Courts of Appeals be certified here for review and determination is plainly confined to that class of
cases in which, according to the provisions of §§ 128 and
241, the final decrees and judgments of those courts are
not reviewable upon appeal or writ of error; that is to say,
if a case be one which may come here under § 241 by

UNITED STATES v. BEATTY.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

appeal or writ of error after a final decree or judgment in
the Circuit Court of Appeals, it is not a case which may be
brought here by certiorari under § 240. It is not intended
that these two modes of exercising appellate authority
over the Circuit Courts of Appeals, one upon appeal or
writ of error and the other upon certiorari, shall be coexistent as respects any case or class of cases, but rather
that the former, where it exists at all, shall be exclusive.
This is fully recognized in Lau Ow Bew v. United States,
144 U. S. 47, 58; American Construction Co. v. Jacksonville
Co., 148 U. S. 372, 385, and Forsyth v. Hammond, 166
U. S. 506, 513, 514.
This case is not within any of the classes enumerated
in the latter part of § 128 and the amount in controversy
is greatly in excess of $1,000, besides costs, so it is a case,
as before indicated, in which a final judgment by the
Circuit Court of Appeals may be reviewed by this court
upon writ of error under § 241. And from this it follows
that it is not a case which may be brought here by certiorari under § 240.
We do not overlook § 262 of the Judicial Code, formerly
§ 716 of the Revised Statutes, which empowers this
court to issue all writs, not specifically provided for by
statute, which may be necessary for the exercise of its
jurisdiction and agreeable to the usages and principles of
law. No doubt, this provision contemplates the employment of the writ of certiorari in instances not covered by
§ 240 and affords ample authority for using the writ as an
auxiliary process and, whenever there is imperative necessity therefor, as a means of correcting excesses of jurisdiction, of giving full force and effect to existing appellate
authority, and of furthering justice in other kindred ways.
American Construction Co. v. Jacksonville Co., 148 U. S.
372, 380; In re Chetwood, 165 U. S. 443, 462; Whitney
v. Dick, 202 U. S. 132; McClellan v. Carland,217 U. S. 268.
But it may not be used under this provision as a sub-

OCTOBER TERM. 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U.

stitute for an appeal or writ of error to correct mere errors
committed in the-exercise of a lawful jurisdiction. American Construction Co. v. Jacksonville Co., supra; In re
Tampa Suburban R. R. Co., 168 U. S. 583; United States
v. Dickinson, 213 U. S. 92, 102.
Here the use sought to be made of the writ is not an
admissible one. Whether the Seventh Amendment, preserving the right of trial by jury, embraces a proceeding to
condemn land for public use was one of the questions arising for decision in the Circuit Court of Appeals. In
deciding it, the court but exercised an undoubted jurisdiction, and this whether the decision was right or wrong.
If wrong, it was a mere error, and the land owners, having
invited it, will not be heard to complain. The jury may
award a less compensation than did the commissioners,
and, if so, the United States will hardly be in a position to
complain. Interlocutory rulings not infrequently become
of no importance by reason of the final result or of intervening matters, and that may be true here. But if the
decision ultimately, operates prejudicially to the United
States, it can be reviewed and, if need be, corrected upon
a writ of error from the final judgment, as before indicated. In this situation we perceive no adequate reason
for resorting to the writ of certiorari under § 262.
Writ of error dismissed;
Petitionfor certioraridenied.

