OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

232 U. S.

HARRISON, SECRETARY OF STATE OF OKLAHOMA, v. ST. LOUIS & SAN FRANCISCO RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 34.

Submitted November 4, 1913.-Decided February 24, 1914.

The judicial power of the United States, as created by the Constitution and provided for by Congress pursuant to constitutional authority, is wholly independent of state action and cannot be directly
or indirectly destroyed, abridged, limited or rendered inefficacious
by exertion of state authority.
The right conferred by law of the United States to remove a cause
pending in a State to a Federal court on compliance with the Federal
law is paramount and free from restraint or penalization by state
action; and whether the right 6xists and has been properly exercised
are Federal questions determinable by the Federal courts free from
limitation or interference by state power.
A state statute which forbids a resort to the Federal courts on-the
ground of diversity of citizenship and punishes by extraordinary
penalties any assertion of a right to remove a case under the Federal
law and attempts to divest the Federal courts of their power to
determjne whether the right exists, is unconstitutional as an attempted exertion of state power over the judicial power of the
United States.
A State cannot destroy the right to remove causes to the Federal
courts by imposing arbitrary conditions as to state citizenship which
render it impossible for one entitled to the right to avail of it.
A suit by. a non-resident against officers of a State to enjoin the enforcement of a state statute which violates constitutional rights of
complainant is not a suit against the State within the prohibition of
the Eleventh Amendment.
A state statute which deprives those entitled thereto of a Federal right
is not made constitutional by the fact that it does not discriminate
but operates on all alike.
The Oklahoma statute of May 26, 1908, forbidding foreign corporations

HARRISON v. ST. L. & SAN FRANCISCO R. R.
232 U. S.

319

Statement of the Case.

from asserting any citizenship other than of that State and providing
for the revocation and forfeiture of the charter of any corporation
filing a petition for removal of a cause from the state, to the Federal,
court, is unconstitutional as to corporations doing an interstate
business as an attempt to restrain and penalize the assertion of a
Federal right. Doyle v. Continental Ins. Co., 94 U. S. 535, and
Security Co. v. Prewitt, 202 U. S. 246, distinguished.
Where the plain text of a state statute leaves no doubt that it is an
attempt to prevent removal of causes to the Federal court, it will not
be construed as a mere exercise of reasonable control over corporations.
When the construction of a state statute given by the state court and
the state ofiicers is plainly right, this court will not give the statute a
different construction because under the one so given the statute is
flagrantly repugnant to the Constitution.

THE St. Louis & San Francisco Railroad Company, a
corporation chartered under the laws of Missouri and a
citizen and resident of that State, owned, controlled or
operated, for the purpose of interstate and intrastate commerce, many hundreds of miles of railway in Oklahoma
and extending into adjoining States and beyond. These
lines existed and were operated by the company, some, it
may be, before the Territory of Oklahoma was organized
and most, if not all, before Oklahoma was endowed with
Statehood. The lines composing the system originated jn
various charters, some enacted by Congress accompanied
with grant of land, and others by territorial grant. The
unified system resulted from foreclosures, consolidations,
etc. In 1908 the company was sued by a citizen and resident of Oklahoma, in a court of that State. On the ground
of diversity of citizenship a petition and bond in due form
and seasonable time were filed by the company for removal
to the Circuit Court of the United States for the Western
District of Oklahoma. What action was taken by the
state court does not appear, but presumably the petition
was denied-the following document having been issued
by the Secretary of State.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.
"STATE

232 U. S.

OF OKLAHOMA.

Revocation of Charterof St. Louis & San FranciscoRailroad
Company in Oklahoma.
GUTHRIE, OKLAHOMA,

August 29th, 1908.

In the District Court.
GERTRUDE GOODE, Administratrix of the Estate of Frank
R. Goode, Deceased, Plaintiff,
VS.
ST. Louis & SAN FRANcIsco RAILROAD COMPANY, a

Cor-

poration, Defendant.

Petition for Removal to the Circuit Court of the United
States.
STATE OF OKLAHOMA,

Comanche County:
Having received due and legal notice from J. T. Johnson,
Judge of the District Court of Comanche County, that the
above named corporation defendant, St. Louis & San
Francisco Railroad Company has filed a petition for removal to the United States Court, a certified copy of which
is on record in the office of the Secretary of State at the
Capitol in the City of Guthrie in the State of Oklahoma.
Therefore, I, Leo Meyer, Assistant Secretary of State
and now Acting Secretary of State of the State of Oklahoma'by authority invested in me under section four of
House Bill No. 131 approved by the Governor of the State
of Oklahoma, C. N. Haskell, May 26th, 1908, do hereby
declare the license of the said St. Louis & San Francisco
Railroad Company to transact business in the State of
Oklahoma forfeited and revoked.
In testimony whereof, I have set my hand and caused to
be affixed the great Seal of the State.
Done at the city of Guthrie this twenty-ninth day of
August, A. D., 1908.
[SEAL]

LEO MEYER,
Acting Secretary of State."

HARRISON v. ST. L. & SAN FRANCISCO R. R. 321
232 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Thereupon the suit which is now before us was commenced by the Railroad Company against the Secretary of
State and his assistant, seeking to enjoin them from giving
effect to the certificate or in any way disturbing or interfering with the company in carrying on business in the
State. With much amplitude of statement the source and
history of the title of the various railroads forming part of
the complainant's system in Oklahoma were enumerated.
In addition to asserting that rights secured to the corporation by the state constitution had been denied by the action complained of, violations of the Constitution of the
United States were specifically asserted on the following
grounds: First, because the state law under which the
Secretary of State had purported to act and the action
taken thereunder constituted an unwarranted interference
on the part of the State and its officers with the judicial
power of the United States; second, because the attempt to
exclude the Company from the State and prevent it from
doing business therein, under the circumstances stated,
was repugnant to the commerce clause of the Constitution,
the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment and
the contract clause, the latter being based on the assertion
that the congressional and legislative acts by which the
roads forming part of the system of the company had been
incorporated, constituted contracts giving a right to do
business in Oklahoma which that State had no power to
impair. The court allowed a restraining order. The bill
was demurred to on the ground of want of jurisdiction
and want of equity. The demurrer was overruled. The
court, in an elaborate opinion, expounded its reasons for
so doing, holding that it had jurisdiction because of diversity of citizenship, the complainant being a citizen of
Missouri and the defendants, citizens and residents of
Oklahoma. In reaching this conclusion, the court analyzed
the various transactions, foreclosure, and consolidations,
etc., by which the railroad company had acquired the lines
VOL. ccxxxIi-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

232 U. S.

.composing its system and held that there was nothing in
any of them which destroyed the Missouri citizenship of
the complainant. It moreover held in any event there
was ample ground for jurisdiction because of the constitutional rights asserted.
. As to the alleged want of equity in the bill, the court,
after stating that the obvious purpose of the legislation
under which the Secretary of State had acted as deduced
from its text was to prevent the removal of causes from
the State to a court of the United States, declared that
the defendant in argument had so conceded. It was decided that the State was without authority to legislate to
that effect and therefore the law in question and the action
of the Secretary of State taken under it were void because
of repugnancy to the Constitution of the United States.
The answer which was then filed, admitted the incorporation of the complainant in Missouri and the citizenship
in Oklahoma of the defendants, as well as the jurisdictional amount. The allegations of the complaint as to
interference with the authority of the courts of the United
States as to the commerce and contract clauses of the Constitution and the due process and equal protection clauses
of the Fourteenth Amendment, were sought to be traversed by copious averments concerning the subjebt. Finally it was asserted, 1, that th6 Missouri corporation was
never authorized to acquire any railroad in either the Indian or Oklahoma Territory and it therefore had no standing to assert as a Missouri corporation, its ownership and
control of such roads as a basis for removal; 2, that in
forming the line or lines of railway which constituted its
system, the complainant had consolidated parallel and
competing roads in violation of the anti-trust laws of the
Territory and of the State of Oklahoma, as well as the
law of the United States and therefore the corporation
was not in a position to assert its Missouri citizenship;
and 3, that the acquisition by the complainant of various

HARRISON v. ST. L. & SAN FRANCISCO R. R. 323
232 U. S.

Argumentior Appellant.

roads forming parts of its system which were covered by
charters granted by Congress or by Oklahoma Territory
was in conflict with such charters, and for this reason,
moreover, the corporation could not be heard to assert its
Missouri citizenship. An, exception of the complainant to
the relevancy of the three grounds just stated, was maintained, and they were stricken from the answer. By agreement between the parties, the present appellant, the successor in office as Secretary of State, was substituted as
defendant. Thereupon, the case having been submitted
to ,the court on bill and answer, a decree was entered perpetually enjoining the Secretary of State from giving effect
to the order of revocation or interfering with or disturbing
the complainant in the transaction of its business in the
State. It was expressly decreed that the act of the legislature of Oklahoma upon which the action of the Secretary
of State was taken was void and unenforceable because of
its repugnancy to the Constitution of the United States.
This appeal was then taken.
Mr. Charles West, Attorney General of the State of
Oklahoma, and Mr. Ben F. Harrison, Secretary of State
of the State of Oklahoma, for appellant:
The purpose of the act is to enforce the State's visitorial powers over. corporations doing business within its
borders.
It is immaterial what any persons may have thought
as to, or even what were, the motives of the legislature.
Calder v. Michigan, 218 U. S. 591.
That the act was not intended to hinder the Federal
courts is evident because it necessarily fails to accomplish
that purpose. Southern Ry. Co. v. Allison, 190 U. S.
330.
Constitutional and other statutory provisions which
are to be considered as in pari materia, urge that this is
but a visitorial statute.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Appellant.

232 U. S.

The difference between the Oklahoma act and the other
acts involved in former decisions of this court is that those
acts discriminate against foreign corporations, while the
Oklahoma act does not. It is not within the reasoning
of Herndon v. C., R. I. & P. Ry. Co., 218 U. S. 135; Pullman Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 56; Ludwig v. West. Un. Tel.
Co., 216 U. S. 146; West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S.
1; Southern Co. v. Greene, 216 U. S. 400.
In all of those cases the statute was held to be either
direct interference with interstate commerce, or else discriminated against companies doing interstate commerce,
and in each instance was held to violate the obligation of
a contract.
The Oklahoma act does none of these things.
The Oklahoma act works no discrimination, and should
be sustained under Security Co. v. Prewitt, 202 U. S. 248;

Doyle v. Continental Ins. Co., 94 U. S. 535; National Council v. State Council, 203 U. S. 163.
The State may domicile within itself all corporations
doing intrastate business within its limits. Thompson,
Corporations, 2d ed., §§ 490 et seq.; St. L. R. Co. v. James,
161 U. S. 545; Matrine v. Ins. Co., 53 N. Y. App. 339;
Safford v. Topeka Water Co., 52 Pac. Rep. 422; Aspinwall
v. Ohio & Miss. R. R. Co., 20 Indiana, 492; Attorney
General v. Lumber Co., 59 N. W. Rep. 1048; Simmons v.
Norf. & Balt. Stbt. Co., 113 N. Car. 147; Attorney General
v. Milwaukee Ry. Co., 45 Wisconsin, 579; Commonwealth
v. Pittsburg R. R. Co., 58 Pa. St. 26; Rolling Stock Co. v.
People, 147 Illinois, 234; State v. So. Pac. Co., 24 Texas,
78; People v. Oakland Bank, 1 Douglas (Mich.), 282;
Huglar v. Craigin Cattle Co., 40 N. J. Eq. 392.
The act is one properly within the police power of the
State. Its purpose is to subject corporations doing intrastate business within the State to the full visitorial and
regulative powers of the State, by requiring, 'domicile
in the State, together with the attendant circumstances

HARRISON v. ST. L. & SAN FRANCISCO R. R. 325
232 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

of the persons of the officei,3, books, papers, etc., within
Oklahoma.
The State has the same right to require a domestic
domicile of a foreign corporation doing intrastate business,
as it would have of its own corporations.
The State may oust a corporation repudiating its creative powers, whether such corporation be one of its own
children or one of its foster children. See Comp. Laws
Oklahoma, 1909, Snyder, supra, in §§ 1400 to 1406.
A foreign corporation is left the right to resort to the
Federal courts upon any ground that a citizen of the State
might resort to those courts, and in addition to the right
given by the laws of the United States for a resort to the
Federal court, either by removal or original action, because the domesticity of the citizen is not taken away,
although the consequence of the claim of foreign domicile
will be to prevent it from doing further intra business in
the State. As long as the corporation is left free to exercise the option of remaining in the State as a domestic
corporation, or of repudiating the domicile of the State,
and losing its domestic privilege, this cannot be an unconstitutional exercise of state power, provided, it is not
administered in an arbitrary or discriminatory manner.
The act does not deprive any person of a privilege or
deny any person equal protection of the law. It does not
discriminate against foreign corporations.
The act is not an interference with interstate commerce.
Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v. Texas, 177 U. S. 45; Louis. &
Nash. R. Co. v. Kentucky, 183 U. S.. 512, 518.
Mr. W. F. Evans and Mr. E. T. Miller for appellee:
The evident purpose of the act of 1908 is to prevent
foreign corporations doing business in Oklahoma from
invoking jurisdiction of the Federal courts in that State.
If such be the purpose of the act, it is ineffectual to that
end. Buck Stove Co. v. Vickers, 226 U. S. 205; Herndon v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Appellee.

232 U. S.

C., R. I. & P., 218 U. S. 135; Ludwig v. Western Union,
216 U. S. 146; Pullman Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 56;
St. L. & S. F. R. R. Co. v. James, 161 U. S. 545; Southern
Co. v. Greene, 216 U. S. 400; Southern Pac. Co. v. Denton,
146 U. S. 202; Southern R. R. Co. v. Allison, 190 U. S. 326;
Textbook Co. v. Pigg, 217 U. S. 91; West. Un. Tel. Co. v.
Kansas, 216 U. S. 1.
Appellee having the right to remove the case from the
state to the Federal court, cannot be lawfully excluded
from the State for exercising that constitutional right,
becauseIt has a contract with the United States, permitting it to
remain in the State of Oklahoma for the purpose of
operating its railroad.
It had a contract with the Territory of Oklahoma, which
is protected by the Constitution of the United States and
by the provision of the constitution of Oklahoma, preserving all rights previously existing.
To exclude appellee from the State would be to impair
the obligation of those contracts, in violation of Federal
and state constitutional guaranties.
To exclude appellee from the State would be to destroy
its property in that State, aggregating many millions of
dollars, and to deprive appellee of its property without
due process of law. Am. Smelting Co. v. Colorado, 204
U. S. 103; Californiav. Pac.Ry. Co., 127 U. S. 1; Cessna v.
United States, 169 U. S. 165; Hager v. Reclamation Dist.,
111 U. S. 701; Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366; Kansas Pac.
Ry. Co. v. A., T. & S. F. Ry., 112 U. S. 414; Londoner v.
Denver, 210 U. S. 373; New Jersey v. Yard, 95 U. S. 104;
N. Y., L. E.. & W. Ry. v. Pennsylvania,153 U. S. 628; Pennsylvania v. Wheeling Co., 13 How. 518; Powers v. Detroit &
G. H. Ry., 201 U. S. 559; Reagan v. Farmers' L. & T. Co.,
154 U. S. 392; Roberts v. Nor. Pac. Ry. Co., 158 U. S. 1;
St. Paul &c. Ry. Co. v. Phelps, 137 U. S. 528; Smith v.
A., T. & S. F. Ry., 64 Fed. Rep. 272; United States v.

HARRISON v. ST. L. & SAN FRANCISCO R. R. 327
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Percheman, 7 Pet. 51; Vincennes v. State, 14 How.
263.
The act is void because it is an indirect interference
with, and imposes a direct burden upon, interstate commerce. At. Coast Line v. Wharton, 207 U. S. 328; Buck
Stove Co. v. Vickers, 226 U. S. 205; Darnell v. Memphis,
208 U. S. 113; Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wh. 1; Heiman v.
Southern Ry. Co., 203 U. S. 270; Ludwig v. West. Un. Tel.
Co., 216 U. S. 146; Pensacola Tel. Co. v. West. Un. Tel.
Co., 96 U. S. 1; Pullman Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 56;
Rearick v. Pennsylvania, 203 U. S. 507; West. Un. Tel. Co.
v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1.
Appellee did not consolidate with the various corporations specified in the amended bill.
The order attempting to revoke the license of appellee
is void. Van Wyck v. Knevals, 106 U. S. 360.
The act is void because in violation of the Eighth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States and
§ 18, Art. II of the constitution of Oklahoma, forbidding
the imposition of excessive fines. Ex parte Young, 209
U. S. 123.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE, after making the foregoing
statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
We have stated the case only to the extent necessary to
make clear the questions essential to be decided.
The assignments of error in general terms assail the
overruling of the demurrer, the striking of matter from
the answer and the final decree. The propositions, however, which are urged at bar to sustain these general
assignments are numerous and we think in some aspects
redundant. To consider them in the order in which they
are urged would besides giving rise to repetition tend to
produce confusion. We hence disregard the mere order in
which they are stated in the argument and come to consider the fundamental prcjpositions necessary to be taken

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.

Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

into view in order to determine whether the court below
was right in holding that the law under which the Secretary of State acted, as well as the action of that officer,
were void because inconsistent with the judicial power of
the United States, reserving until that is done such
separate consideration of the propositions relied on as we
may deem it necessary to make.
It may not be doubted that the judicial power of the
United States as created by the Constitution and provided for by. Congress pursuant to its constitutional
authority, is a power wholly independent of state action
and which therefore the several States may not by any
exertion of authority in any form, directly or indirectly,
destroy, abridge, limit or render inefficacious.
The
doctrine is so elementary as to require no citation of
authority to sustain it. Indeed, it stands out so plainly
as one of the essential and fundamental conceptions upon
which our constitutional system rests and the lines which
define it are so broad, and so obvious that, unlike some of
the other powers delegated by the Constitution, where
the lines of distinction are less clearly defined, the attempts to transgress or forget them have been so infrequent as to call for few occasions for their statement and
application. However, though infrequent, occasions have
not been wanting, especially on the subject of the removal
of causes with which we are now dealing, where the
general principle has been expounded and applied so as to
cause the subject, even from the mere point of view of
authority, to be beyond the domain of all possible controversy.
See for general question.Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123;
Reagan v. Farmers'Loan & Trust Co., 154 V. S. 362, 391;
Hess v. Reynolds, 113 U. S. 73, 77; Madisonville Traction
Co. v. Mining Co., 496 U. S. 239, 252, and on subject of
removal, Southern Pacific Company v. Denton, 146 U. S.
202; St. Louis & S. F. Ry. Co. v. James, 161 U. S. 545;

HARRISON v. ST. L. & SAN FRANCISCO R. R. 329
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Southern Railway Company v. Allison, 190 U. S. 326;
Herndon v. C., R. I. & P., 218 U. S. 135.
With this general principle in hand let us come to fix
one or more of the essentials of the right to remove as a
prelude to testing the assailed statute and the action
taken under it. In the first place, the right unrestrained
and unpenalized by state action on compliance with the
forms required by the law of the United States to ask the
removal of a cause pending in a State to a United States
court is obviously of the very essence of the right to remove
conferred by the law of the United States. In the second
place, as the right given to remove by the United States
law is paramount, it results that it is also of the essence of
the right to remove, that when an issue of whether a
prayer for removal was rightfully asked arises, a Federal
question results which is determinable by the courts of the
United States free from limitation or interference arising
from an exertion of state power. In the third place, as the
right freely exists to seek removal unchecked or unburdened by state authority and the duty to determine the
adequacy of a prayed removal is a Federal and not a state
question, it follows that the States are in the nature of
things without authority to penalize or punish one who has
sought to avail himself of the Federal right of removal on
the ground that the removal asked was unauthorized or
illegal. Let us come then to the text of the statute with
the object of determining its constitutionality.
Its first section provides "that the domicile of every
person, firm or corporation conducting a business in
person, by agent, through an office, or otherwise transacting business within the State of Oklahoma, and which has
complied with or may comply with the constitution and
laws of the State of Oklahoma, shall be for all purposes
deemed, and held to be the State of Oklahoma." The
second section provides for the immediate revocation of
"the license or charter to do business within the State of

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

Oklahoma of every person, firm or corporation conducting
a business in person, by agent, through an office or otherwise transacting business within said State of Oklahoma,
who shall claim or declare in writing before any court of
law or equity within said State of Oklahoma, domicile
within another State or. foreign country." The third
section makes it the duty of the judge of any court before
which any claim of foreign domicile is made within the
contemplation of the second section to at once make
report of the fact to the Secretary of State and to transmit
to that officer a copy of the claim, and the fourth section
imposes on the Secretary of State the duty immediately
on the receipt of such report and copy of the declaration
to "declare the license or charter of any person, firm or
corporation so filing said claim or declaration, forfeited
and revoked," and the fifth causes it to be a misdemeanor
subjecting to a penalty of not less than one thousand nor
more than five thousand dollars each day or part of day,
for any person whose license or charter is revoked to do
business in Oklahoma in conflict with the prohibitions of
the statute.
While the provisions of the statute are dependent one
upon the other and are unified in the sense that they all
are components of a common purpose, that is, tend to the
realization of one and the same legislative intent, its
provisions nevertheless, for the purpose of analysis, are
plainly two-fold in character, that is, one, the compulsory
citizenship and domicile within the State which the first
section imposes and the other the prohibition which the
statute pronounces against any assertion in a court of the
existence of any other citizenship and domicile than that
which the statute ordains and the means and penalties
provided for sanctioning such prohibition. Although
theoretically, the first would seem to be the more primary
and fundamental of the two, since the second after all
consists but of methods provided for making the first

HARRISON v. ST. L. & SAN FRANCISCO R. R. 331
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

operative, the second from the point of view we are examining is the primal consideration, since it directly deals
with the assertion in a state court of a right to remove
and provides the mechanism which was deemed to be
effectual to render the assertion of such right impossible.
In other words, the difference between its two provisions
is that which exists between an attempt on the one hand to
render the enjoyment of a Federal right impossible by
arbitrarily creating a fictitious legal status incompatible.
with the existence of the right and on the other hand the
formulation of such prohibitions and the establishment of
such penalties against the attempt to avail of the Federal
right as to cause it to be impossible to assert it. Coming
then to consider the statute from the second or latter
point of view, we think it is clear that it plainly and
obviously forbids a resort to the Federal courts on the
ground of diversity of citizenship in the contingency
contemplated, punishes by extraordinary penalties any
assertion of a right to remove under the laws of the United
States, and attempts to divest the Federal courts of their
power to determine, if issue arises on the subject, whether
there is a right to remove. Indeed, the statute goes much
further, since when an application to remove is made, in
order to prevent a judicial consideration of its merits even
by the state court, it in effect commands the judge of such
court on the making of the application to refuse the same
and to certify the fact that it was made to a state executive
officer to the end that such officer should without judicial
action strip the petitioning corporation of its right to do
business, besides subjecting it to penalties of the most
destructive character as a means of compelling acquiescence. When the nature of the statute is thus properly
appreciated, nothing need be further said to manifest its
obvious repugnancy to the Constitution or to demonstrate the correctness of the decree of the court below.
The conclusion just stated leaves us only the duty of

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

separately and briefly referring to some of the propositions
pressed in argument: a, the contention that because the
object of the suit was to enjoin state officers from violating
the constitutional rights of the complainant, it was therefore a suit against the State and not maintainable, is so
plainly in conflict with the settled doctrine to the contrary
that we do not further notice it. b, The contention so
much insisted upon, that the act should not be declared
unconstitutional because it does not discriminate, we assume refers to the provision of the statute creating an
arbitrary standard of state citizenship and domicile; but
as we see no possibility of separating that provision from
the unconstitutional attempt to prevent access to the
courts of the United States, there is no occasion to further
deal with the subject of discrimination. If, however, we
were to separately consider it, at once it is to be observed
that ihe contention proceeds upon a self-evident misconception which is this, that if only wrong be indiscriminately
done it becomes rightful. c, The proposition that the constitutionality of the statute and the action taken under it,
is supported by the decisions in Doyle v. ContinentalInsurance Company, 94 U. S. 535 and Security Company v.
Prewitt, 202 U. S. 246, is we think plainly unfounded.
Those cases involved state legislation as to a subject over
which there was complete state authority, that is, the exclusion from the State of a corporation which was so organized that it had no authority to do anything but a
purely intrastate business, and the decisions rested upon
the want of power to deprive a State of its right to deal
with a subject which was in its complete control, even
though an unlawful motive xiight have impelled the State
to exert its lawful power. But that the application of
those cases to a situation where complete power in a State
over the subject dealt with, does not exist, has since been
so repeatedly passed upon as to cause the question not to
be open. Western Union Telegraph Company v. Kansas,

HARRISON v. ST. L. & SAN FRANCISCO R. R. 33a
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S. 1; Pullman Company v. Kansas, ib. 56; Textbook
Company v. Pigg, 217 U. S. 91; Buck Stove & Range Co. v.
Vickers, 226 U. S. 205, and Herndon v. C., R. & I. P. Ry.,
218 U. S. 135. The grounds of the decision in the last case.
show the extremely narrow scope of the rulings in the
Doyle and Prewitt cases, and render their inapplicability
to this case certain. Indeed, the ruling in the Herndon
Case and in those subsequent to the Doyle and Prewitt
cases, most of which were reviewed in the Herndon Case,
demonstrates that no authority is afforded by those two
cases for the conception that it is within the power of a
State in any form, directly or indirectly, to destroy or deprive of a right conferred by the Constitution and laws of
the United States. d, The matters which the court below
ordered stricken from the answer were irrelevant to the
issue for decision even if it be conceded hypothetically
that they had merit, because under that assumption they
would have only been properly cognizable if presented in
an appropriate manner and at the proper time to the Federal tribunal which had a right to pass upon them when
considering the propriety of the removal which was prayed.
e, We consider that the plain text of the statute, the
meaning affixed to it by the state court when the application to remove was made, the subsequent action taken by
the state officers, the character of the pleadings, the concession as stated by the court below which was made in
the argument, all leave no room for the contention that at
all events the statute should be construed not as an attempt on the part of the State to prevent the removal of
causes, but simply as an effort on the part of the State
to exert reasonable control over corporations within its
borders. The argument that because the statute, if understood as we understand it, is so flagrantly repugnant to
the Constitution as to-suggest the impossibility of believing
that it was enacted with that end in view but repudiates,
as we have seen, the action of the state court and of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

232 U. S.

state officers under it and the whole course of the trial, and
comes at last to the contention that the more plainly an
enactment violates the Constitution, the more urgent the
duty of deciding that it does not do so.
Affirmed.

BACCUS v. STATE OF LOUISIANA.
ERROR TO THE THIRD JUDICIAL DISTRICT COURT, PARISH OF
CLAIBORNE, STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 170.

Argued January 19, 1914.-Decided February 24, 1914.

This court will not disregard the construction placed upon a state statute by the highest court of the State especially if it involves giving
the statute one meaning for the purpose of determining whether the
acts in question are within its terms and another meaning for the
purpose of escaping the Federal question.
A State may classify and regulate itinerant vendors and peddlers,
Emert v. Missouri, 156 U. S. 296, and may also regulate the sale of
drugs and medicines.
The statute of Louisiana of 1894, prohibiting sale of drugs, etc., by
itinerant vendors or peddlers, is not unconstitutional under the Fourteenth Amendment either as denying due process of law by preventing a citizen from pursuing a lawful vocation or as denying equal
protection of the law.

THIS writ of error was directed to a district court of the
State of Louisiana, as that court had jurisdiction, in last
resort, over the conviction sought to be reviewed. The
information upon which the conviction was based charged
that the accused had, in violation of § 12 of Act 49 of the
Laws of Louisiana for 1894, illegally, as an itinerant vendor
or peddler, "sold drugs, ointments, nostrums and applications intended for the treatment of diseases and deformity."

A motion was made to quash on the following

