STEWART v. MICHIGAN.
232 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The action of the court in rendering judgment against
the defendant for the costs is challenged, but this was so
clearly right as to render discussion of it unnecessary.
Ariz. Rev. Stat. 1901, §§ 1543, 2639; Kittredge v. Race, 92
U. S. 116, 121; United States v. Verdier, 164 U. S. 213, 219.
As we find no prejudicial error in the record, the judgment is
Affirmed.
STEWART v. PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF
MICHIGAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
No. 239.

Argued March 6, 1914.-Decided March 23, 1914.

Crenshaw v. Arkansas, 227 U. S. 389, followed to effect that the negotiation of sales of goods which are in another State, for the purpose of
introducing them into the State in which the negotiation is made, is
interstate commerce.
Where one has been convicted for violating a state statute which is
unconstitutional as applied to the act committed, the conviction
cannot be sustained because there was proof of another violation
with which he was not charged, as conviction for the latter would
be condemnation without hearing which would be denial of due process of law.
167 Michigan, 417, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the validity under the com-

merce clause of the Federal Constitution of a conviction
under the peddling and hawking license act of Michigan,
are stated in the opinion.
Mr. George M. Valentine and Mr. G. W. Bridgman for
plaintiff in error, submitted:
Section 8 of Art. I and § 2 of Art. IV of the Constitu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

232 U. S.

tion are to be liberally construed for the benefit of the
Stat"s and their citizens.
The authority of Congress in this regard is exclusive,
and no State, except in the exercise of the police power
for the security of the lives, health, and comfort of persons and the protection of property, can make any law
or regulation which will affect the free and unrestrained
intercourse and trade between the States as the Federal Constitution left it, or which will impose any discriminating burden or tax upon the citizens or products
of other States coming or brought within its jurisdiction.
The state court erred in holding the transactions to be
domestic commerce, simply because plaintiff in error
caused the goods for which he had taken orders to be consigned to himself in the State of Michigan, with no mark
upon any of the goods to indicate that they were to fill
any particular order or that they were for any particular
person. See Asher v. Texas, 128 U. S. 129; Robbins v.
Shelby Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489; Brennan v. Titusville, 153 U. S. 289: Caldwell v. North Carolina, 187 U. S.
622; Rearick v. Pennsylvania, 203 U. S. 507; Dozier v.
Alabama, 219 U. S. 124; Crenshaw v. Arkansas, 227 U. S.
389; Dillon on Mun. Corp., 5th ed., p. 2328, § 1356.
Importation of goods from outside the State as ordered
by purchasers is an act of interstate commerce, although
the goods are shipped to a general agent in the State,
who re-packs them and sends them to subordinate agents,
who deliver them to the purchasers. Huntington v.
Mahan, 142 Indiana, 695; Bloomington v. Bourland, 137
Illinois, 534; McLaughlin v. South Bend, 126 Indiana, 471;
Martin v. Rosedale, 130 Indiana, 109; Carstairsv. O'Donnell, 154 Massachusetts, 357; People v. Bunker, 128 Michigan, 160; Stone v. State, 117 Georgia, 292; Turner v. State-,
41 Tex. Crim. Rep. 545; In re Spain, 47 Fed. Rep. 208;
South Bend v. Glasby, 50 Washington, 598.

STEWART v. MICHIGAN.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Grant Fellows, Attorney General of the State of
Michigan, for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE

WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Plaintiff in error was tried and convicted in a Justice
Court upon a criminal information which charged that
"one David J. Stewart did travel from place -to place
within the County of Berrien, State of Michigan, for the
purpose of 'taking orders for the purchase of goods, wares
and merchandise, by sample, lists and catalogues, without having then and there obtained a license as a hawker
and peddler as required and provided by chapter 136 of the
compiled laws of Michigan, of 1897, as amended." From
that judgment an appeal was taken to the county court
where the cause was tried de novo by a jury, resulting
again in a conviction, and that judgment was affirmed
by the Supreme Court of the State (167 Michigan, 417).
This writ of error was then prosecuted.
There are several assignments of error of a Federal
nature, but the consideration of one--the asserted repugnancy of the statute upon which the warrant was
based to the commerce clause of the Constitution of
the United States-will enable us to dispose of the case.
The statute provides:
"No person shall be authorized to travel from place to
place within this state, for the purpose of carrying to sell
or exposing to sale any goods, wares, or merchandise,
or to take orders for the purchase of goods, wares, or merchandise, by sample list or catalogues, unless he shall have
obtained a license as a hawker and peddler in the manner
hereinafter directed."
Violation of the statute was made a- misdemes aor
punishable by fine or imprisonment.
Briefly stated, the material facts, which are uncontro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

verted, are as follows: The defendant resided in the City
of Chicago where he was engaged in the general merchandise business, but much of his time was spent in the State
of Michigan soliciting orders for groceries and other merchandise to be shipped from his Chicago store. Duplicates
of the orders secured were mailed by him to his manager
in Chicago, and goods corresponding to the orders were
shipped in carload lots from the Chicago store consigned
to the defendant at St. Joseph and other points in Berrien
County, Michigan. Upon the arrival of the cars at St.
Joseph the goods were delivered to the customers by draymen employed by the defendant, who filled the orders
at the car by checking from the originl orders, there
being no identifying marks on the packages, except as
to their contents. Customers living at a distance received
notice by mail of the arrival of the cars and called or sent
for their goods. If for any reason any orders were undelivered, the goods corresponding to such orders were returned to the Chicago store or placed in a storeroom which
the defendant hired in Benton Harbor, Michigan, and
there is some evidence tending to show that occasional
sales were made by the defendant from the storeroom and
from the car without previous solicitation.
Upon the above facts the trial court charged the jury
as follows:
"In this case it is claimed by the defendant that he was
engaged in interstate commerce and that he was protected
by the Interstate Commerce Law.
"Now, it is true that a wholesale merchant or grocer,
in the City of Chicago for instance, can solicit orders
through an agent in this state and he can send an agent
here to deliver the goods.
"The facts, however, in this case are different. The
goods were shipped here in a car consigned to the defendant himself. The goods were never consigned to the man
who made the order, and when they got here they were

STEWART v. MICHIGAN.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

not the goods of the man who made the order because if,
any of those men who had made an order had gone down
to the car they could not have claimed the goods that were
there because they could not be identified. The packages
were mixed promiscuously in boxes and there were no
names on the packages. Moreover, those goods were
not shipped according to the usual course of business,
promptly, but there was a delay of some two or three
months in the shipment of those wares.
"I hold, gentlemen, that there was no sale ever consummated until the goods were actually delivered by the
drayman at the house. Ordinarily the sale is consummated at Chicago (where goods are ordered from Chicago)
and the sale is consummated the moment they are shipped
at the City of Chicago, directed to the consignee. In this
case no sale was consummated whatever until the goods
were actually delivered at the house.
"So I hold, practically, Lhat the car was a mere warehouse or place of doing business by the defendant, and it
was there that he distributed the goods as he pleased. For
that reason, gentlemen, I hold that the defendant comes
within the law and that he is what is called a hawker and
peddler.
*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

"In this case, as it is only a matter of law, and there
are no facts in dispute, it will be your duty of course, as
a matter of form, to follow the direction of the court, I
find, gentlemen of the jury, in this case that the de-"
fendant, under the evidence and the law, is guilty of the
charge. . .
And the correctness of the charge thus given was in
terms sustained by the Supreme Court of the State in its
opinion.
The charge as thus given and affirmed is clearly in conflict with the rule announced in Crenshaw v. Arkansas,
227 U. S. 389, and the cases there reviewed. Indeed,

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

reference to authority is unnecessary, since it was admitted
in the argument at bar that the judgment below in so far
as it affirmed the action of the trial court in holding that
there could be a conviction because of the deliveries of
merchandise from the cars to fill orders previously solicited
and obtained was erroneous because in conflict with the
commerce clause of the Constitution. But it is said although there was manifestly reversible error from this
point of view, nevertheless as from another point of view
there was a ground adequate to sustain the judgment,
there should be an affirmance. The court below it is said,
not only placed its affirmance upon the erroneous ruling
as to. the sales made under orders, but also upon the ground
that there was evidence showing some sales made from
the car or store-room not under previous orders and as
the latter sales were not within the shelter of the commerce
clause, therefore the affirmance on -that ground was an
independent non-Federal conclusion sustaining the action
of the court and calling for the duty of affirmance. But
this proposition disregards the fact that the only charge
made against the accused was for peddling and that the
instructions of the court and the whole course of the trial
conclusively established that the sales made from the car,
as the result of the orders solicited, formed the sole basis
for the prosecution, and the conviction therefore related
to that and to that alone. If then it be admitted that the
judgment below was placed upon two grounds, such admission would not establish that the -judgment rested
upon an independent state ground adequate to sustain it,
since the first ground it is admitted was Federal and erroneous, and the second ground if- upheld would amount
to a condemnation without hearing and therefore constitute a denial of due process of law. Thus the proposition
if sustained 'would require us to hold that an admitted
violation of one constitutional right must be left uncorrected because at the same time another and equally

RILEY v. MASSACHUSETTS.
232 U. S.

Syllabus.

fundamental constitutional right was disregarded, a conclusion which would give effect to both wrongs obviously
demonstrates our plain duty to reverse and remand for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

RILEY v. COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 228.

Argued March 4, 5, 1914.-Decided March 23, 1914.

A state statute limiting the hours of labor in factories for women, if
otherwise valid, is not unconstitutional as depriving the employer
or employ6 of property without due process of law by limiting the
right to buy and sell labor and infringing the liberty of contract in
that respect. Muller v. Oregon, 208 U. S.412.
It being competent for the State to restrict the hours of employment
of a class of laborers, it is also competent for the State to provide
administrative means against evasion of such restrictions. C., B. &
Q. Ry. v. McGuire, 219 U. S.549.
The wisdom and legality of the means adopted by the legislature to
enforce proper restrictions on employment of labor cannot be judged
by extreme instances of their operation.
Section 48 of the Labor Act of 1909 of Massachusetts, regulating the
hours of labor of women in factories, is not an unconstitutional
denial of due process of law because it provides for the posting of a
schedule of hours and requires the hours to be stipulated in advance
and followed until a change is made. The provision is reasonable and
not arbitrary.
A provision in a state statute that the form of notice in which employds' hours of labor are scheduled shall be approved by the Attorney General of the State, does not deny equal protection of the law
if the approval is confined to the form of notice and not to the
schedules which might provide for different hours in different cases.

