OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

232 U. S.

simply a purchaser of, or dealer in, that which the Kokomo
Company produces. The defendant goes beyond that;
it buys from others the parts that are as much needed in
effecting the patented combination as the rubber itself
and sells them in order that the infringing device may be
constructed by its customers.
The fourth question which is certified by the court below is:
"If the Kokomo Company is immune in making the
infringing rubber which is only one element of the combination of the patent are its customers who purchase
the rubber of the Kokomo Company and the metal rims
and retaining wires of other parties and sell them to be
assembled upon wheel rims making the completed structure of the patent also immune from prosecution?"
We answer this question in the negative. The other
questions are not raised by the case made and hence are
left unanswered.
It is so ordered.

CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE & ST. PAUL RAILWAY
COMPANY v. CITY OF MINNEAPOLIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MINNESOTA.
No. 150.

Argued December 19, 1913.-Decided February 24, 1914.

Railroad corporations may be required, at their own expense, not only
to abolish grade crossings, but also to build and maintain suitable
bridges or viaducts to carry highways, newly laid out, over their
tracks or to carry their tracks over such highways.
This rule has been declared as the established law of the State of
Minnesota by its highest courts.
The same rule applies to a highway laid out to increase the advantages

CHI., MIL. & ST. P. RY. v. MINNEAPOLIS.
232 U. S.

431

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

of a public park. Such a highway is a crossing devoted to the public
use. Shoemaker v. United States, 147 U. S. 282.
The same rule also applies where the crossing is a canal or water-way
connecting other waters and although within a public park; the fact,
and not the mode, of public passage, controls.
The condemning of a strip of the right-of-way of a railroad company
and compelling that company to build at its own expense a bridge
over the part so taken so as to permit a municipality in Minnesota
to construct a canal connecting two lakes all within the limits of a
park devoted to public recreation is not an unconstitutional taking
of private property without due process of law within the meaning
of the Fourteenth Amendment.
115 Minnesota, 460, affirmed.
TH facts, which involve the determination of whether
the condemnation of a part of the right-of-way of a railroad company, and compelling it, at its own expense, to
construct a bridge over a waterway connecting two lakes
within a park, amounts to a taking of property without
compensation within the meaning of the due process clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. F. W. Root, with whom Mr. Burton Hanson was
on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The state Supreme Court erred:
In holding that the cost of the bridge required to carry
the railway tracks over the canal, need not be included in
the award of damages to the plaintiff in error, for the
taking of a part of its right-of-way for canal purposes.
In holding, in violation of the Fifth Amendment, that
such taking of property without making full compensation
sufficient to include not only the value of the land taken,
but all resulting expense of the construction and maintenance of the bridge, did not constitute a taking of private
property, for public use, without just compensation.
In holding, in violation of ยง 1, of the Fourteenth Amendment that the taking of the property of the plaintiff in
error, without making such full compensation, did not
deprive it of its property without due process of law, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

232 U. S.

did not deny to plaintiff in error the equal protection of
the laws.
The city seeks to take the easement across said rightof-way, for the purpose of constructing and maintaining
therein a canal for pleasure boating, connecting Lake
Calhoun and Lake of the Isles, the level of whose waters is
about eighteen feet below the level of said railway tracks;
and as an immediate and direct result of such taking an
expensive bridge is required to carry the railway tracks
over such canal.
The cost of such bridge, if forced upon the Railway
Company, will constitute a taking of its property.
There is not any special statutory provision of Minnesota excepting this case from the general rule; but it is
claimed that the taking here is an exercise of its police
power, and that such power may be exercised without
compensation for property taken or damaged.
In a condemnation proceeding under the right of
eminent domain, the property owner is entitled to full
compensatory damages, which includes, not only the value
of the property actually taken, but also all consequential
damage to the remaining property. A denial of damage
for the cost of such bridge is a taking of the property of
the Railway Company for public use without just compensation, in violation of both the Federal and state Constitutions.
There is no question of public health or safety, no question of danger to anyone. The strip of land taken from
the Railway Company is to be used for a canal,-a waterway,-excluding consideration of a crossing of the tracks
at grade. So no element of danger appeals to the police
power.
A bridge is required, not to relieve the public from
dangers incident to the crossing of railway tracks at grade,
but because the land is to be used for a canal, leaving a
gap in the railroad.

CHI., MIL. & ST. P. RY. v. MINNEAPOLIS.
232 U. S.

433

Argument for Defendant in Error.

There is nothing to show that the connecting of these
two lakes is a matter of such importance to the general
public, a matter so vitally affecting the general welfare
of the community, as to bring the enterprise within the
principle of police power.
Each of these lakes was navigable for pleasure boats
without a canal.
The favored few, who may be financially able to provide
themselves with pleasure boats upon either lake, and who
may have the time and desire to occasionally use this
canal, do not constitute the general public.
The proposed canal is not in any way designed to secure
the public safety, health or welfare, nor will the opening of
such canal operate upon any existing evil that injuriously
affects the safety, health, morals or general welfare of the
community.
The canal is purely artificial and its sole purpose, as
found by the state Supreme Court, is to enhance the
usefulness of the lakes (connected thereby), in affording
opportunity to the public for recreation and pleasure.
The Railway Company has thus far been required to
expend nearly sixteen thousand dollars in original construction, and an unknown amount must also be expended
in future maintenance, merely to provide an occasional
amorous couple with temptation to prolong their fondlings, perhaps their courtship, by passing from the wearisomeness of one lake into the scenery of another.
The cases cited by defendant in error are not apposite.
They involve public safety, but in this case there is no
question of public safety, nor'is there any state law affecting this question.
Mr. C. J. Rockwood for defendant in error:
Railway companies must adapt their tracks to the
public convenience. When changes in the construction or
in method of operation become necessary to the comVOL. ccxxxi-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

232 U. S.

munity welfare and convenience, the companies must
make them at their own cost.
Compensation to a railway company in eminent domain
proceedings need not include the resultant expense of
adapting the company's tracks to the changed conditions.
These doctrines are merely expressions of the police
power, which is the power to subordinate the individual
interest to the community interest in matters of high
importance.
For cases imposing on railways the duty of separating grades, or adopting other safety devices, at their
own expense, see Minneapolisv. St. Paul,Minn. & Mani.
Ry. Co., 35 Minnesota, 131; Minneapolis v. Minn. &
St. L. Ry. Co., 39 Minnesota, 219; St. P., M. & M. Ry. Co.
v. District Court, 42 Minnesota, 247; Minneapolis v. St.
P., M. & M. Ry. Co., 98 Minnesota, 380, aff'd, 214
U. S. 498; Duluth v. Nor. Pac. Ry. Co., 98 Minnesota,
429, aff'd, 208 U. S. 583; Faribaultv. W., M. & P. Ry.
Co., 98 Minnesota, 536; Minneapolis v. Minneapolis St.
Ry. Co., 115 Minnesota, 514; Twin City Separator Co. v.
C., M. & St. P. R. Co., 118 Minnesota, 491; N. Y. &
N. E. R. Co. v. Bristol, 151 U. S. 556; C., B. & Q.Ry. Co. v.
Chicago, 166 U. S. 226; Detroit F. W. & B. I. R. Co. v.
Osborn, 189 U. S. 383; St. L. & S. F. R. Co. v. Fayetteville,
75 Arkansas, 534; Woodruff v. Catlin, 54 Connecticut, 277;
Cleveland v. City Council, 102 Georgia, 233; C. & N. W. R.
Co. v. Chicago, 140 Illinois, 309; C., B. & Q. R. Co. v.
Chicago, 149 Illinois, 457, aff'd, 166 U. S. 226; Lake
Erie & W. R. Co. v. Shelley, 163 Indiana, 36; N. Y. C. &
St. L. R. Co. v. Rhodes, 171 Indiana, 521; Boston v. County
Com'rs, 79 Maine, 386; C., B. & Q. R. Co. v. State, 47
Nebraska, 549; Ry. Co. v. Sharpe, 38 Oh. St. 150; Thorpe v.
Rutland &c. R. Co., 27 Vermont, 140; C., M. & St. P. R.
Co. v. Milwaukee, 97 Wisconsin, 418.
The measure of damages, in the absence of a statute on
the subject, in taking an easement for the crossing of a

CHI., MIL. & ST. P. RY. v. MINNEAPOLIS.
232 U. S.

435

Argument for Defendant in Error.

railway for highway purposes, does not include the cost of
bridges and other safety devices. Cases supra and State v.
District Court, 42 Minnesota, 247; C., I. & W. Ry. Co.
v. Connersville, 170 Indiana, 316, aff'd, 218 U.. S. 336;
Li & N. R. Co. v. Louisville (Ky.), 114 S. W. Rep. 743;
Albany N. R. Co. v. Brownell, 24 N. Y. 345; People v.
N. Y. C. & H. R. R. Co., 156 N. Y. 570; Lehigh V. R.
Co. v. Canal Board, 204 N. Y. 476; So. K. R. Co. v. Oklahoma, 12 Oklahoma, 82.
As to the right of the public to convenient crossings and
the duty of protection to the public existing at common
law, see City v. St. P., M. & M. R. Co., 98 Minnesota, 380,
402; Chicago & E. R. Co. v. Luddington, 175 Indiana, 35;
Pittsburgh,C., C. & St. L. Co. v. Gregg, 102 N. E. Rep. 691.
The sanie rule applies to waterways natural and arti-

ficial. C., I4. & Q. R. Co. v. Illinois, 200 U. S. 561; West
Chicago St. Ry. Co. v. People, 201 U. S. 506, affi'g 214
Illinois, 9; Union Bridge Co. v. United States, 204 U. S.
364; C., B. & Q. R. Co. v. Supervisors, 182 Fed. Rep. 291;
C. & E. R. Co. v. Luddington, 175 Indiana, 35; Mason City
&c. R. R. Co. v. Supervisors, 144 Iowa, 10; Lehigh V. R.
Co. y. Canal Board, 204 N. Y. 476.
Lands and waters reserved for the recreation of the
people are devoted to a public use; a use as fully entitled
as any other to the protection of the law. Lamprey v.
State, 52 Minnesota, 181; State Park Commissioners v.
Henry, 38 Minnesota, 266; Shoemaker v. United States,
147 U. S. 282; Smart v. Aroostook L. Co., 103 Maine, 37;
Attorney General v. Woods, 108 Massachusetts, 436; Attorney Generalv. Williams, 174 Massachusetts, 476; Pittsburgh &c. R. R. Co. v. Gregg, 102 N. E.' Rep. 961;
Grand Rapids v. Powers, 89 Michigan, 94; People v.
Adirondack R. Co., 160 N. Y. 248, aff'd 176 U. S. 335;
Re City of New York, 167 N. Y. 624, affi'g 57 App. Div.
166; Lyon v. Columbia W. P. Co., 82 So. Car. 181; Madson
v. Spokane &c. Water Co., 40 Washington, 414.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JusTiCE, HUGHES
court.

232 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

This is a writ of error to review a judgment of the
Supreme (ourt of the State of Minnesota which affirmed a
judgment entered in a controversy submitted upon an
agreed statement of facts. The statement, in substance,

shows:
Within the limits of the City of Minneapolis are Lake
Calhoun, Lake of the Isles and Cedar Lake, lying in close
proximity to each other and used by the public for pleasure boating and other recreations. The City, having
acquired for park and parkway purposes the shores of
Lake Calhoun and Lake of the Isles, and a portion of
the shores of Cedar Lake, together with large tracts of
land in the vicinity, is engaged in constructing two canals
which will connect the lakes and will greatly enhance their
usefulness to the public. Between Lake Calhoun and
Lake of the Isles is a strip of land, six hundred feet wide
in its narrowest part, through which one of these canals
is to be opened. Along tlhis strip and near its center lies
the right-of-way-one hundred feet in width-of the appellant, the Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Railway
Company, which is used by it in the operation of its road.
The City, in order to provide for the canal and walks on
either side, seeks to condemn an easement in a piece of
land one hundred feet wide across the right-of-way. The
two lakes are now connected by a- small water-course
which crosses the right-of-way about fifty-nine feet from
the center of the proposed canal and is carried under the
railway tracks by a pipe about three feet in diameter.
The construction of the canal will render the water-course
and pipe useless and permit the closing of this channel.
At the point where the land is to be taken by the City,
the railway tracks are upon an artificial embankment
about eighteen feet above the established level of the

CHI., MIL. & ST. P. RY. v. MINNEAPOLIS.
232 U. S.

487

Opinion of the Court.

water in the lakes. The City's improvement will require
the construction of a bridge to carry the tracks across the
canal and walks. The agreed value of the mere land proposed to be taken, irrespective of the cost of the bridge, is
the sum of ten dollars; and the estimated cost of building
a bridge in accordance with plans prepared by the City
and accepted by the Railway Company is, the sum of
$18,513. It is agreed that an adequate bridge for railway
purposes, built according to the plans usually adopted by
the Railway Company, would cost only $15,969. The
difference in cost, or $2,544, is due to ornamental features,
and this amount it is agreed that, in any event, the City
shall pay. For the purposes of this proceeding, the Railway Company conceded the authority of the City to take
the described land under the power of eminent domain;
and it was agreed accordingly that the City should take
the land and construct the canal and walks, and that the
Railway Company should build the bridge after the
City's plans; but no claim for damages or compensation
to which the Railway Company was entitled under the
law by reason of the taking was waived.
The controversy submitted was as to the amount which
the Company should receive. It was contended by the
Company that it should be paid (1) the sum of ten dollars
as the agreed value of the land taken, (2) the entire cost
of the bridge, and (3) such further sum as would be sufficient to maintain the bridge. It was also insisted that
to divest it of its property without such payment would
be a violation both of the state constitution and of ยง 1
of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution. In the court of first instance it was held that the
Company was entitled to recover only the sum of $2,554,
being the value of the land and the cost of the ornameital
features of the bridge; and this judgment was affirmed
by the Supreme Court of the State. 115 Minnesota, 460.
The question thus presented is whether the refusal

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

to allow compensation for the cost of constructing and
maintaining the necessary railroad bridge across the gap
in the right-of-way, made by the building 'of the canal,
amounts to a deprivation of property without due process
of law.
It is well settled that railroad corporations may be required, at their own expense, not only to abolish existing
grade crossings but also to build and maintain suitable
bridges or viaducts to carry highways, newly laid out,
over their tracks or to carry their tracks over such highways. N. Y. & N. E. R. R. Co. v. Bristol, 151 U. S. 556,
567; C., B. & Q. R. R. Co. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226, 252,
255; C., B. & Q. R. R. Co. v. Nebraska, 170 U. S. 57;
Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Duluth, 208 U. S. 583, 597;
St. P., Minn. & Man. Ry. Co. v. Minnesota, 214 U. S. 497;
C., I. & W. Ry. Co. v. Connersville, 218 U. S. 336, 343, 344.
See also Detroit &c. Railway v. Osborn, 189 U. S. 383; New
OrleansGaslight Co. v. Drainage Com'n, 197 U. S. 453, 462;
C., B. & Q. Ry. Co. v. Drainage Com'rs, 200 U. S. 561,
592, 593; Atlantic Coast Line v. Goldsboro, decided this
day, post, p. 548. 'The rule, as established in the State
of Minnesota, was thus declared in the case of State ex rel.
Minneapolisv. St. P., Minn. & Man. Ry. Co., 98 Minnesota,
380 (see 115 Minnesota, p. 466): "A railroad company receives its charter and franchise subject to the implied right
of the State to establish and open such streets and highways over and across its right of way as public convenience
and necessity may from time to time require. That right
on the part of the State attaches by implication of law to
the franchise of the railroad company, and imposes upon it
an obligation to construct and maintain at its own expense
suitable crossings at new streets and highways to the same
extent as required by the rules of the common law at streets
and highways in existence when the railroad was constructed." In that case, it appeared that long after the construction of the railroad, the City of Minneapolis had laid

CHI., MIL. & ST. P. RY. v. MINNEAPOLIS.
232 U. S.

439

Opinion of the Court.

out a street across the railroad right-of-way, building at its
own cost a bridge over the railroad tracks. After the
bridge had been maintained for several years by the City
it was destroyed by fire, and the City then demanded that
the railroad company should build a new one. This demand the state court sustained; and, mandamus having
thereupon been awarded (101 Minnesota, 545), the case
was brought to this court, one of the grounds being that
the action of the State deprived the company of its property without due process of law. The judgment was affirmed (St. P., Minn. & Man. Ry. Co. v. Minnesota, 214
U. S. 497), this conclusion being reached upon the authority of Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Duluth, 208 U. S.
583. Although the Duluth Case was earlier in this court,
the decision therein by the Supreme Court of the State
immediately followed that of the same court in the Minneapolis Case and applied the principle which had been
there announced. State ex rel. Duluth v. Northern Pacific
Ry. Co., 98 Minnesota, 429. The facts were that after
the railroad had been built, a street had been opened
across the right-of-way and subsequently a viaduct for
the crossing had been constructed at the joint expense
of the City and the railroad company, the former agreeing
to maintain it. Later, the City, repudiating the agreement, insisted that the company should repair the viaduct at its own expense. The state court entered judgment for the City, holding that the obligation to construct
and maintain the viaduct rested upon the railroad company and that hence the contract was invalid. This
court affirmed the judgment saying: "As the Supreme
Court of Minnesota points out in the opinion in 98 Minnesota, 380, .
.
the state courts are not altpgether
agreed as to the right to compel railroads, without compensation, to construct and maintain suitable crossings
at streets extended over its right of way, after the construction of the railroad. The great weight of state au-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

thority is in favor of such right. (See cases cited in 98
Minnesota, 380.) There can be no question as to the
attitude of this court upon this question, as it has been
uniformly held that the right to exercise the police power
is a continuing one; that it cannot be contracted away,
and that a requirement that a company or individual
comply with reasonable police regulations without compensation is the legitimate exercise of the power and not
in violation of the constitutional inhibition against the
impairment of the obligation of contracts. . . . In
this case the Supreme Court of Minnesota has held that
the charter of the company, as well as the common law,
required the railroad, as to existing and future streets,
to maintain them in safety, and to hold its charter rights
subject to the exercise of the legislative power in this
behalf, and that any contract which undertook to limit
the exercise of this right was without consideration, against
public policy anl void. This doctrine is entirely consistent with the principles decided in The cases referred to
in this court."
In C., I. & W. Ry. Co. v. Connersville, 218 U. S. 336, 343,
supra, a street was opened through an embankment upon
which the railroad tracks were laid. At the time of the
construction of the railroad that part of the embankment
was outside the City limits. But the City was extended,
and the intersecting street was laid out in order to provide a suitable means of communication between the
parts of the City on either side of the embankment. On
reviewing the judgment entered in the condemnation
proceeding, it was held that there was no violation of
the Fourteenth Amendment in refusing to allow to the
company the cost of building a bridge for its tracks over
the opening made by the street. "The question," said
the court, "as to the right of the railway company to be
reimbursed for any moneys necessarily expended in constructing the bridge in question is, we think, concluded

CHI., MIL. & ST. P. RY. v. MINNEAPOLIS.
232 U. S.

441

Opinion of the Court.

The railway
by former decisions of this court. . .
company accepted its franchise from the State, subject
necessarily to the condition that it would conform at its
own expense to any regulations, not arbitrary in their
character, as to the opening or use of streets, which had
for their object tho safety of the public, or the promotion of the public convenience, and which might, from
time to time, be established by the municipality, when
proceeding under legislative authority-within whose
limits the company's business was conducted.
. we adjudge upon
Without further discussion, .
the authority of former cases, that there was no error
in holding that the City could not be compelled to reimburse the railway company for the cost of the bridge
in question."
Under the doctrine of these decisions, it necessarily
follows that if the City of Minneapolis had opened a
public road through the embankment of the plaintiff
in error, the latter would have had no ground to complain
that its constitutional rights had been violated because
it was compelled to bridge the gap at its own cost. No
different rule could be applied because the highway was
laid 'out in order to increase the advantages of a public
park. In this aspect, it would be equally a crossing devoted to the public use (Shoemaker v. United States, 147
U. S. 282, 297); and we see no basis for a distinction in
principle in the case of an intersecting public road opened
under competent authority because such a highway might
lead to public recreation grounds instead of to places of
business, or might connect lakes instead of avenues.
If there is a distinction in the present case, it must
lie in the fact that the crossing is an artificial waterway
instead of a road. But it is none the less a public highway,
established to afford an appropriate place of public passage. Walks are provided for those who go afoot, and
it does not concern the plaintiff in error that others go in

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

232 U. S.

boats instead of vehicles. "The way sought to be established," said the Supreme Court of Minnesota, p. 465,
"a canal or waterway, with walks along each side" was
"clearly a public way, subject to the rules governing public ways." It cannot make a difference in the constitutional rights of the Railway Company that this way was
not constructed entirely, or chiefly, of solid earth; it is
the fact, and not the mode, of public passage that is controlling. The case must be regarded as being one of a
public crossing provided by law; and the authorities we
have cited lead to the conclusion that the State, without
infringing the guaranties of the Federal Constitution, could
require the Railway, Company to make suitable provision
for carrying its tracks over the crossing without compensation.
The judgment is affirmed.
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. PELICAN.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 787.

Argued January 13, 1914.-Decided February 24, 1914.

The-.Colville Reservation in the State of Washington was set apart by
Executive order in July, 1872, has boen repeatedly recognized by
acts of Congress and is a legally constituted reservation, and, as
such, is included in Indian country to which ยง 2145, Rev. Stat.,
refers.
A legally constituted Indian reservation is none the less embraced
within the Indian country referred to in ยง 2145, Rev. Stat., because
it may have been segregated from the public domain.
The authority of Congress to deal with crimes committed on or against
Indians upon the lands within an Indian Reservation is not affected

