RUBBER TIRE CO. v. GOODYEAR CO.
232 U. S.

Syllabus.

trict Court for error in its charge with reference to subdivision five of ยง 7.
The Circuit Court of Appeals reached the conclusion
that there was no substantial proof to warrant the conviction under the fourth subdivision of ยง 7, that the flour was
mixed, colored and stained in a manner whereby damage
and inferiority was concealed. As the case is to be retried
to a jury, we say nothing upon this point.
As to the objection on constitutional grounds, it is not
contended that the statute as construed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals and this court is unconstitutional.

It follows that the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals reversing the judgment of the District Court must
be affirmed, and the case remanded to the District Court
for a new trial.

Affirmed.
RUBBER TIRE WHEEL COMPANY v. GOODYEAR
TIRE AND RUBBER COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 37.

Argued May 7, 1913.-Decided February 24, 1914.

In Diamond Rubber Co. v. Consolidated Rubber Tire Co., 220 U. S. 428,
the Grant tire patent was sustained as a patentable combination,
not as a mere aggregation of elements but as a new combination of
parts co-acting so as to produce a new and useful result; nor did the
patentability depend on the novelty of any of the elements entering
into it.
Where the combination is protected by such a patent, one manufacturing it by assembling the various elements and effecting the combination is not entitled to immunity from prosecution for infringing because he purchases one element from a party who is immune under
a provision in a decree permitting it to sell the patented article itself.
Kessler v. Eldred, 206 U. S. 285, distinguished.
In this case held, that the immunity given by a provision in a decree to
a specified party manufacturing and selling an article as a patentable

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

combination producing new results, is not transferable, and such
party, although immune himself, cannot enjoin the prosecution of
suits against another as an infringer because the latter purchases
from him one of the elements used in manufacturing the article.
183 Fed. Rep. 978, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of a decree
in a patent case and the extent and effect of the immunity
granted thereunder to manufacture the patented article
and the several elements thereof, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Frederick P. Fish, with whom Mr. J. L. Stackpole
was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. H. A. Toulmin for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.
The petitioners are the owners of the Grant patent
(No. 554,675) issued February 18, 1896, for an improvement in'rubber-tired wheels. In a suit for infringement
brought by the petitioners against the Goodyear Tire and
Rubber Company (the respondent) it was held by the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit that the
patent was void for want of novelty. Goodyear Tire &
Rubber Co. v. Rubber Tire Wheel Co., 116 Fed. Rep. 363.
Upon the basis of the decree entered upon that decision,
the respondent instituted the present suit in the Southern
District of Ohio to restrain the petitioners from prosecuting suits for infringement against the respondent's customers. The Circuit Court granted a preliminary injunction. Upon appeal, the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Sixth Circuit sustained the injunction so far as it applied
to the prosecution of a suit which the petitioners had
brought against John Doherty in the Circuit Court for the
Southern District of New York. 183 Fed. Rep. 978. This
writ of certiorari was then granted.

RUBBER TIRE CO. v. GOODYEAR CO.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The Grant tire is composed of three elements, (1) a channel or groove with tapered or inclined sides, (2) a rubber
tire with a described shape, adapted to fit into the channel,
and (3) a fastening device consisting of independent retaining wires, which pass through the rubber tire and are
placed in a particular position. It was held in the Sixth
Circuit that both the elements and the results were old
and hence patentability was denied. Goodyear Tire &
Rubber Co. v. Rubber Tire Wheel Co., supra; Rubber Tire
Wheel Co. v. Victor Rubber Tire Co., 123 Fed. Rep. 85.
In the Second Circuit, and in the Circuit Court for the
Northern District of Georgia, the patent was sustained.
Rubber Tire Wheel Co. v. Columbia Pneumatic Wagon
Wheel Co., 91 Fed. Rep. 978; Consolidated Rubber Tire Co.
v. Finley Rubber Tire Co., 116 Fed. Rep. 629; Consolidated
Rubber Tire Co. v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co., 147 Fed.
Rep. 739; 151 Fed. Rep. 237; Consolidated Rubber Tire Co.
v. Diamond Rubber Co., 157 Fed. Rep. 677; 162 Fed. Rep.
892. The controversy came to this court upon certiorari
to review the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Second Circuit in the case last-mentioned and it
was finally determined that the patent was valid. Diamond Rubber Co. v. Consolidated Rubber Tire Co., 220 U. S.
428. The patented structure was held to be not a mere
aggregation of elements but a new combination of parts
co-acting so as to produce a new and useful result. It was
found that the Grant tire. possessed a distinctive characteristic, that is, a "tipping and reseating power." This,
said this court, "is the result of something more than each
element acting separately. It is not the result alone of the
iron channel, with diverging sides, nor alone of the retaining bands or the rubber. They each have uses and
perform them to an end different from the effect of either,
and they must have been designed to that end, contriving
to exactly produce it. There can be no other deduction
from their careful relation. The combination of the rubber

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

and the flaring channel, the shape of that permitting lateral movement and compression, the retaining band, holding and yielding, placed in such precise adjustment and
correlation with other parts, producing a tire that 'when
compressed and bent sidewise shall not escape from the
channel and shall not be cut on the flange of the channel,'
and yet shall 'be mobile in the channel."' 220 U. S. p. 443.
There was thus a patentable combination, the patentability of which did not depend on the novelty of any of the
elements entering into it, whether rubber, iron or wires.
Doherty, against whom suit was enjoined, had a shop
in New York City where he was engaged in the business
of applying rubber tires to vehicle wheels. It appeared
that having purchased the rubber from the respondent,
and the wire and channel from other parties, he combined
these elements and fitted them to a carriage wheel, thus
constructing a complete tire. This we may assume to be
a typical case.
It is at once apparent that the decree in favor of the
Goodyear Company in the former suit, does not work an
estoppel in favor of Doherty so as to afford him a defense
against the charge of infringement in making the patented
structure. He was not a party to the suit in which that
decree was rendered; nor, at least with respect to. tires
made by him, can he be regarded as a privy to that decree.
We may lay on one side. the question as to the rights of
one purchasing from the respondent the completed article.
Doherty did not purchase it; he made it himself, assembling its various elements for that purpose and effecting
the combination. On no possible theory can it be said
that, if the tire thus constructed was covered by the
patent, Doherty was entitled to immunity simply because
he bought one element of the tire from the Goodyear
Company.
The respondent, however, is asserting its own right and
not that of Doherty. It insists that, by virtue of the

RUBBER TIRE CO. v. GOODYEAR CO.
232 U. S.

*

Opinion of the Court.

decree in its favor in the infringement suit, it should have
the injunction in order to protect its trade. It contends
that it has an equitable right to this protection by restraining suits not only against those who buy from it the structure which is the subject of the patent but also against
those who buy its rubber and 'themselves make the patented tire. In urging this contention the respondent relies
upon the doctrine of Kessler v. Eldred, 206 U. S. 285.
There, Kessler and Eldred were rival manufacturers of
electric cigar lighters. Eldred, being the owner of the
Chambers patent, sued Kessler in the Northern District
of Indiana for infringement. The Circuit Court, finding
non-infringement, dismissed the bill; and this decree was
affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh
Circuit. 106 Fed. Rep. 509. Subsequently, Eldred
brought suit on the same patent in the Northern District
of New York against Kirkland, who was selling a similar
cigar lighter, but not of Kessler's make. The Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit held the Kirkland
lighter to be an infringement. 130 Fed. Rep. 342. Eldred
then began a suit for infringement in the Western District
of New York against Breitwieser, a user of Kessler's
lighters. Thereupon Kessler filed his bill in the Circuit
Court for the Northern District of Illinois to enjoin Eldred
from prosecuting suit against anyone for alleged infringement of the Chambers patent by purchase, use or sale of
any electric cigar lighter manufactured by Kessler and
identical with the lighter before the court in the suit of
Eldred v. Kessler. Kessler, being defeated in the Circuit
Court, appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Seventh Circuit. Answering questions certified by that
court, this court held that the decree in the suit of Eldred
v. Kessler had the effect of entitling Kessler to continue
the business of manufacturing and selling throughout the
United States the same lighter he had theretofore been
manufacturing and selling, without molestation by Eldred
VOL. ccxxxii-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

through the patent which he held; and that the decree
also had the effect of making a suit by Eldred against any
customer of Kessler for the alleged infringement of the
patent by use or sale of Kessler's lighters a wrongful interference with Kessler's business, with respect to which he
was without adequate reniedy at law. 206 U. S. 287, 290.
It will be observed that the equity thus sustained
-sprang from the decree in the former suit between the
parties and that the decision went no further than to hold
it to be a wrongful interference with Kessler's business to
sue his customers for using and selling the lighter which
Kessler had made and sold to them, and which was the
same as that passed upon by the court in the previous
suit. His right to make and sell the particular article, the
making of which Eldred had unsuccessfully challenged as'
an infringement, was deemed to include the right to have
others secure in buying that article, and in its use and
resale. But the present question was in no way involved.
It was not held that Kessler would have been entitled to
restrain Eldred from suing other manufacturers of lighters
who might buy from Kessler some of the materials used
in such manufacture.
The distinction is controlling. Under the doctrine of
Kessler v. Eldred, the respondent-by reason of the final
adjudication in its favor-was entitled to make and sell
the Grant structure, and to have those who bought that
structure from it unmolested in taking title and in enjoying the rights of ownership. It may also be assumed that
the respondent had the right to make and sell its rubber
without hindrance by the petitioners claiming under the
patent. The trade right of the respondent, however,
whether with respect to the complete structure or its
separate parts, is merely the right to have that which it
lawfully produces freely bought and sold without restraint
or interference. It is a right which attaches to its product-to a particular thing-as an article of lawful com-

RUBBER TIRE CO. v. GOODYEAR CO.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

merce, and it continues only so long as the commodity
to which the right applies retains its separate identity.
If that commodity is combined with other things in the
process of the manufacture of a new commodity, the trade
right in the original part as an artich of commerce is necessarily gone. So that when other persons become manufacturers on their own behalf, assembling the various elements and uniting them so as to produce the patented
device-a new article-it is manifest that the respondent
cannot insist upon their being protected from suit for infringement by reason merely of its right to make and sell,
and the fact of its having made and sold, some component
part of that article. It must be able to go beyond a mere
trade right in that element and to show itself to be entitled
to have its customers manufacture the patented structure.
Thus the fallacy in the respondent's contention becomes
apparent. The decree gave the respondent no right to
have others make Grant tires. It could make and sell
them, and it could make and sell rubber; it could demand

protection for its trade rights in the commodities it produced. But it had no transferable immunity in manufacture. The decree gave it no privilege to demand that

others should be allowed to make and sell the patented
structure in order that it might have a market for its

rubber.
The suit against Doherty was based upon his conduct

in constructing Grant tires. The fact that the respondent
could not be charged with liability as a participant in the
infringement thus alleged did not .excuse him; and the
petitioners in bringing the suit did not violate any right of
the respondent.
It is not necessary to consider the evidence bearing upon
the question whether Doherty had authority from the
petitioners, as that is a matter between him and them,
and if the facts afford him a defense he is free to urge it.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals, in so far

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

232 U. S.

as it affirmed the order of injunction granted by the Circuit Court, is reversed and the cause is remanded to the
District Court with instructions to enter an order denying
the application for injunction.
It is so ordered.
MR.JUSTICE DAY states that in his view the suit against
Doherty was properly enjoined upon the principles established in this court in Kessler v. Eldred, 206 U. S. 285, and,
without repeating, agrees with the reasoning by which
that conclusion was reached in the opinion of Judge Warrington, speaking for the Circuit Court of Appeals in this
case.

SEIM v. HURD.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND CIRCUIT.
*No. 141.

Argued December 17, 1913.-Decided February 24, 1914.

Where the separate elements of the combination are all old, and it is
'only the article resulting from the combination that is protected by
the patent, there is no actual infringement by one purchasing the
different elements unless and until the article itself is made; but if such
purchaser does make that article with the separate elements he cannot
escape liability on the ground that he purchased such elements from
others.
Where none of the questions certified are apposite to the facts stated
in the certificate, this court is not bound to, and will not, answer
them. The certificate will be dismissed.

THE certificate in this case is as follows:
"There arises in this case a question of law upon which
this Court desires the instruction of the Supreme Court
for its proper decision.

