U. S. EXPRESS CO. v. NEW YORK.
232 U. S.

Argument for the United States Express Company.

employed in interstate commerce. In this view it is unnecessary to consider whether the ordinances have been
superseded, as to automobiles, by the state statute.
The decree of the Circuit Court is reversed and the case
is remanded to the District Court with direction to enter
a decree in favor of the complainant in conformity with
this opinion.
It is so ordered.

PLATT, TREASURER. OF UNITED STATES EXPRESS COMPANY; v. CITY OF NEW YORK.
CITY OF NEW YORK v. PLATT, TREASURER OF
UNITED STATES EXPRESS COMPANY.
APPEAL AND CROSS-APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF
THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR THE SOUTHERN

DISTRICT OF

NEW YORK.

Nos. 85, 86. Argued December 3, 4, 1913.-Decided January 5, 1914.
Adams Express Co. v. New York, ante, p. 14, followed to the effect
that certain municipal ordinances of the City of New York are void
and unconstitutional as applied to the interstate commerce of express
companies.
189 Fed. Rep. 268, reversed.
THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under the
commerce clause of the Federal Constitution of certain
ordinances of the City of New York as applied to the

interstate business of express companies, are stated in the
opinion.

Mr. Walker D. Hines for United States Express Company.'
1 For

arguments see p. 20, ante.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

Mr. Terence Farley, with whom Mr. Archibald R. Watson was on the brief, for the City of New York.'
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was brought by the complainant as treasurer
of the United States Express Company to restrain the
enforcement against that company of certain license
requirements contained in the ordinances of the City of
New York. The ordinances are the same as those which
were under consideration in Adams Express Co. v. New
York, decided this day, and the decree of the Circuit Court
was to the same effect in both cases. 189 Fed. Rep. 268.
The United States Express Company is an unincorporated association organized under the laws of New York
and is extensively engaged in interstate commerce as a
common carrier of packages. Over ninety-eight per cent.
of its total business in New York City consists of the
handling of traffic in interstate transportation. The interstate shipments in New York City are hauled by the
Company's wagons to and from the rail terminals of the
Central Railroad of New Jersey, the Lehigh Valley Railroad and the Delaware, Lackawanna and Western Railroad, .all within the State of New Jersey. It employs in
its business 343 express wagons of which 189 are stabled
in and operated exclusively from Jersey City, New Jersey;
123 are similarly kept in Communipaw, New Jersey;
and the remainder, or 31, are kept in the Borough of Manhattan. :Both the local and interstate traffic are handled
in these wagons indiscriminately. The Company has
never taken out any licenses in the City of New York for
its wagons or drivers.
The questions are the same as those which were presented in Adams Express Co. v. New York, supra, and a like
1 For

arguments see p. 21, ante.

UNITED STATES v. REGAN.
232 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

decree should be entered restraining the enforcement of the
ordinances against the Company with respect to the conduct of its interstate business and its wagons and drivers
employed in interstate commerce.
The decree of the Circuit Court is reversed and the case
is remanded to the District Court With direction to enter a
decree in favor of the complainant in conformity with this
opinion.
It is so ordered.

UNITED STATES v. REGAN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 503. Argued October 22, 1913.-Decided January 5, 1914.
While in strictly criminal prosecutions the jury may not return a verdict against the defendant unless the evidence establishes his guilt
beyond a reasonable doubt, in civil actions it is the duty of the jury
to resolve the issues of fact according to the reasonable preponderance of the evidence, and this although they may involve a penalized
or criminal act.
In an action brought by the United States under ยง 5 of the Alien
Immigration Act of February 20, 1907, c, 1134, 34 Stat. 898, to recover the prescribed pecuniary penalty for an alleged violation of
ยง 4 of the act, it is not essential to a recovery by the Government
that the evidence establish the violation beyond a reasonable doubt,
as in a criminal case, but a reasonable preponderance of proof is
sufficient.
203 Fed. Rep. 433, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the penalty
provisions of the Alien Immigration Act of 1907, are stated
in the opinion.

