OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

232 U. S.

as it affirmed the order of injunction granted by the Circuit Court, is reversed and the cause is remanded to the
District Court with instructions to enter an order denying
the application for injunction.
It is so ordered.
MR.JUSTICE DAY states that in his view the suit against
Doherty was properly enjoined upon the principles established in this court in Kessler v. Eldred, 206 U. S. 285, and,
without repeating, agrees with the reasoning by which
that conclusion was reached in the opinion of Judge Warrington, speaking for the Circuit Court of Appeals in this
case.

SEIM v. HURD.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND CIRCUIT.
*No. 141.

Argued December 17, 1913.-Decided February 24, 1914.

Where the separate elements of the combination are all old, and it is
'only the article resulting from the combination that is protected by
the patent, there is no actual infringement by one purchasing the
different elements unless and until the article itself is made; but if such
purchaser does make that article with the separate elements he cannot
escape liability on the ground that he purchased such elements from
others.
Where none of the questions certified are apposite to the facts stated
in the certificate, this court is not bound to, and will not, answer
them. The certificate will be dismissed.

THE certificate in this case is as follows:
"There arises in this case a question of law upon which
this Court desires the instruction of the Supreme Court
for its proper decision.

SEIM v. HURD.
232 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

"It is therefore ordered that the statement and questions here following be certified to the Supreme Court
as provided by the Sixth Section of the Act of March 3rd,
1891.
"United States Patent No. 554,675, was issued February 18, 1896, to Arthur W. Grant for Rubber Tired Wheel.
The patentee immediately assigned the entire interest
in said patent to the Rubber Tire Wheel Company. October 11, 1897, The Rubber Tire Wheel Company being
the sole owner, sold and assigned to the complainant
James D. Hurd an exclusive license and shop-right to
put on rubber tires according to said patent in Berkshire
County, Massachusetts; in the western part of Vermont
and in seventeen counties in New York State, 'with the
exclusive right to ship and sell the same throughout said
territory and not elsewhere,' subject, however, to the
rights of the Hartford Rubber Works Company, under a
certain contract. Mr. Hurd immediately commenced and
has ever since continued to operate under said patent in
said territory.
"July 1'8, 1899, the owner of said patent conveyed the
exclusive license to make and vend such tires throughout
the United States to the Consolidated Rubber Tire Company, subject however to Hurd's rights and the Hartford
Rubber Works Company contract.
"Much litigation has been had in reference to said
patent. The following are the only cases important here,
all of which were commenced after the exclusive license
was granted to the complainant Hurd and in none of
which was he a party to the action or in control of the
action.
"The Circuit Court of Appeals in the Sixth Circuit,
in the case of Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. v. The Rubber
Tire Wheel Company, 116 Fed. Rep. 363, held that the
patent was invalid.
"The Court in the Second Circuit in the case of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

232 U. S.

Consolidated Rubber Tire Co. v. Finley Rubber Tire Co.,
116 Fed. Rep. 629, held that the patent was valid.
"The Court in the Sixth Circuit in the case of The Rubber Tire Wheel Co. v. The Victor Rubber Co., 123 Fed. Rep.
895, held that the patent was void.
"The Court in the Second Circuit, in the case of the
Consolidated Rubber Tire Co. v. Firestone Tire & Rubber
Co., 147 Fed. Rep. 739, affirmed on appeal in 151 Fed.
Rep. 237, held that the patent was valid and infringed.
"The Circuit Court of the District of Indiana in the
case of the Consolidated Rubber Tire Company and The
Rubber Tire Wheel Co., D. B. Sullivan and Kenny &
Sullivan v. Kokomo Co., D. C. Sparker, A. Lehman and
G. W. Landan, not reported, dismissed the complaint
upon the pleadings, testimony and exhibits for want of
equity, no opinion being written and the ground for the
decision not being set forth in the order except that the
complaint was dismissed 'for want of equity,' the case
then being appealed by the complainants to the U. S.
Circuit Court of Appeals of the Seventh Circuit, and thereupon dismissed thereafter.
"The Circuit Court of Appeals in the Second Circuit
in the case of the ConsolidatedRubber Tire Co. v. Diamond
Rubber Co. of New York, 157 Fed. Rep. 678, and on rehearing 162 Fed. Rep. 892, held that the patent was valid
and infringed by the defendant.
"The Supreme Court of the United States affirmed
this decision in 220 U. S.428, and held that the patent
was valid and infringed by the defendant.
"None of these cases were for infringement in Hurd's
exclusive territory.
"In view of the ruling of the Supreme Court in Kessler v.
Eldred, 206 U. S.285, the Court of Appeals in the Second
Circuit inserted the following clause in the final decree
in the case of the Consolidated Rubber Tire Co. v. Diamond
Rubber Co. of New York (162 Fed. Rep. 895):

SEIM v. HURD.
232 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

"'Nothing in this injunction shall prevent or is intended
to prevent, or enjoin this defendant from handling, using
and selling rubber tires and rims covered by the Grant
patent, manufactured by the Goodyear Tire & Rubber
Company, having a right to manufacture, use, and sell
such tires under a judicial decree in the Federal courts
of the Sixth Circuit; or manufactured by the Kokomo
Rubber Company, having a right to manufacture, use
and sell such tires under a judicial decree in the district
of Indiana, Seventh Circuit; or manufactured by the
Victor Rubber Tire Company, under a judicial decree
in a litigation in the Federal courts in the Sixth Circuit,
wherein in such litigations it has been judicially determined that the said Grant patent is invalid and void.'
"After the decision of the Supreme Court sustaining
the Grant patent Hurd commenced this suit, joining
with him the legal owner and licensee of the patent, against
defendants residing and doing business within Hurd's
exclusive territory. Defendants purchased the infringing
tires from the Diamond Rubber Company of New York,
which was the defendant in the former litigation, and at
the City of New York, and such tires were delivered to
defendants at the City of New York, and then taken to
Albany, complainant Hurd's territory, and the rubber,
metal channel and retaining wires were there assembled
and attached to the wheel rim by defendants, and not
by the Kokomo Company or the Diamond Rubber Company of New York.
"Defendants now claim that the infringing tires used
by them in their business were made by the Kokomo
Rubber Company and sold to them by the Diamond.
Rubber Company of and at New York City, said Kokomo
Company being the defendant in the action in the District
of Indiana where the complaint was dismissed for want
of equity.
"Defendants claim that under the ruling of the Supreme

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Cae.

232U. S.

Court. in the case of Kessler v. Eldred, 206 U. S. 285, the
Kokomo Company have the right to manufacture the
infringing tires, and that the tires so made are free from
the monopoly of the patent and the users of the tires made
by the Kokomo Company are immune from prosecution
and such tires may be used and sold by any one.
"On the other hand it is claimed by complainants that
the doctrine of the case of Kessler v. Eldred does not apply
here for the reason that the patent has since been held
valid by the Supreme Court and that the complainant
Hurd had possession of his limited territory under his
exclusive license before any of the suits in question were
commenced, and was not a party to those actions and had
no control over any of those actions and is not privy to
the parties in those actions and is therefore not bound
by the decisions in those actions, also that the decision
in Kessler v. Eldred was upon the ground that a decree
that an article in question is, or is not, an infringement
of the patent is res adjudicataas to similar articles only
and does not apply to a case where the patent was held
void by the lower court and afterward held valid by the
Supreme Court, and also that no specific ground for the
decision in the case against the Kokomo Company having
been stated by the court, the reasons for that decision
cannot now be inferred and such decision cannot be binding upon any person not a party to that action.
Questions Certified.
"The Court entertaining a doubt as to which is the
correct interpretation to be -put upon the opinion in
Kessler v. Eldred, upon the facts set forth above, desires
the instruction of the Supreme Court for the proper decision of this appeal and to that end it certifies to the
Supreme Court under Section 6 of the Court of Appeals
Act, for its instruction the following questions:
"1st. Has the Kokomo Company the right to manu-

SEIM v. HURD.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

facture the infringing tires free from the monopoly of
the patent?
"2nd. Are purchasers and users of infringing tires
made by the Kokomo Company immune from prosecution by the owners of the patent?
"3rd. Are the defendants immune from prosecution
by the complainant Hurd for using and selling the infringing tires made by the Kokomo Company, and sold
and delivered to them by the Diamond Rubber Company of New York at the City of New York, in the exclusive territory conveyed to Hurd prior to the commencement of the action against the Kokomo Company?
"4th. If the Kokomo Company is immune in making
the infringing rubber which is only one element of the
combination of the patent are its customers who purchase
the rubber of the Kokomo Company and the metal rims
and retaining wires of other parties and sell them to be
assembled upon wheel rims making the completed structure of the patent also immune from prosecution?"
Mr. C. K. Offield for Seim.
Mr. Walter E. Wad for Hurd.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES, after making the above statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

Hurd, a licensee for a limited territory under the Grant
patent for rubber tires, joining with him the legal owner
of the patent and the holder of an exclusive license subject
to the rights of Hurd and another, brought suit against
Seim and Reissig, for infringement. It is stated that
the defendants purchased the infringing tires from the
Diamond Rubber Company of New York and, also, that
it is the contention of the defendants that these tires were
bought by the Diamond Rubber Company from the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

Kokomo Company. The patent had been sustained in a
suit against the Diamond Rubber Company (162 Fed. Rep.
895; 220 U. S. 428) but by a provision in the final decree
there was excepted from the operation of the injunction,
tires manufactured by parties to other suits in which the
patent had been declared invalid, naming among others
the Kokomo Company.
The further statement of the certificate, however, makes
it plain that the defendants did not purchase the patented
structure but made it themselves. The statement is that
"such tires" (referring to those purchased by the defendants) "were delivered to defendants at the City of New
York, and then taken to Albany, complainant Hurd's
territory, and the rubber, metal channel and retaining
wires were there assembled and attached to the wheel rim
by defendants, and not by the Kokomo Company or the
Diamond Rubber Company of New York."
The elements in the Grant structure were old. There
had been previous combinations of rubber, metal channels
and retaining wires in the effort to produce a successful
rubber tire (220 U. S. pp. 438, 439). The claims of the
Grant patent were narrow and were limited closely to a
specified combination which, through the co6peration of
the various parts, when these were correlated in the precise adjustment described, produced a new and useful
result.
It is thus apparent that the defendants themselves
constructed the-device, effecting that union of the separate
elements which alone could bring the structure within
the patent claims. In this aspect, it is immaterial from
whom they bought the rubber or the wires or the channel.
It is not the case of the purchase. of the article in question
from one who had a right to sell. There was no actual
infringement until they made the tire and for their act
in making it they could not escape liability by the purchase of parts from others. See Rubber Tire Wheel Co. et

SEIM v. HURD.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

al. v. Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co., decided this day, ante,
p. 413.
None of the questions certified is apposite to the facts
as we understand the certificate to state them. It may
have been the intention by the use of the words "infringing tires" in the first, second and third questions to refer
to the rubber stock only. It seems to be conceded in the
arguments of both parties that the rubber alone is made
by the Kokomo Company. But the questions, as put,
are not raised by the case made and for that reason they
must go unanswered. Neither the right of the Kokomo
Company to make the Grant structure, nor the right of a
purchaser or user of that structure if made and sold by
the Kokomo Company, is involved.
The fourth question is'as follows:
"If the Kokomo Company is immune in making the
infringing rubber which is only one element of the combination of the patent are its customers who purchase
the rubber of the Kokomo Company and the metal rims
and retaining wires of other parties and sell them to be
assembled upon wheel rims making the completed structure of the patent also immune from prosecution?"
A similar question is answered in the case of Woodward
Company v. Hurd, decided this day, post, p. 428, but it is
not presented by the facts of the present case. There is
no suggestion that the defendants here purchased the
various parts and sold them to be assembled by their customers, but on the contrary, as we have said, the defendants made the structure themselves.
In view of the form of the questions, the certificate
must be dismissed.
Dismissed.

