OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

232 U. S.

BANK OF ARIZONA v. THOMAS HAVERTY
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
ARIZONA.
No. 87.

Submitted December 4, 1913.-Decided January 5, 1914.

In this case this court thinks there was sufficient evidence as to the
authority of the agent to make the agreement to support the verdict
against the principal, and that the jury was warranted in finding
that an agreement had been reached before certain questions reserved for further consideration had been raised.
The evidence tending to show that the agreement was a compromise
between a mortgagee and a lienor in view of doubts that had arisen
as to which had priority, this court agrees with the lower courts that
there was no guaranty as to the exact status of the lien either as to
amount or priority.
Improprieties in remarks of counsel in addressing the jury may be
cured by the instructions of the trial judge.
Where the record does not show that an objection was raised upon the
appeal to the territorial Supreme Court it cannot be considered by
this court. Gila Valley Ry. v. Hall, ante, p. 94.
13 Arizona, 418, affirmed.

facts, which involve the validity of a verdict and
judgment for damages for breach of contract obtained in
the territorial courts, are stated in the opinion.
THE

Mr. Walter Bennett for plaintiff in error:
Demurrer to complaint should have been sustained; the
agency of attorneys at law to bargain to buy claim was
not proved; the terms of transfer were not agreed upon.
There was misconduct of counsel in argument to jury.
The alleged agreement violates the Statute of Frauds.
Admitting declaration of alleged agents to establish
agency was error.

BANK OF ARIZONA v. HAVERTY.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The questions to and answers by attorney at law was
in violation of rule of privilege. See Boyle v. Smithman
(Pa.), 23 Atl. Rep. 398; Chicago &c. v. Judge, 135 Ill. App.
377; Dow v. Town &c. (N. H.), 44 Atl. Rep. 489; Foss v.
Smith (Vt.), 65 Atl. Rep. 553; McKenna v. McKenna, 118
Ill. App. 240; Parlin v. Orendorff Co., 137 Ill. App. 454;
Wicks v. Wheeler, 139 Ill. App. 412.
Mr. A. B. Browne, Mr. Alexander Britton, Mr. Evans
Prowne, Mr. J. L. B. Alexander and Mr. George D. Christy
for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The Thomas Haverty Company, defendant in error,
sued the Bank of Arizona in a District Court of the Territory of Arizona to recover $9,313.90 upon a special agree-,
ment set out in the complaint substantially as follows:
That in February, 1908, the company had a claim against
one John Noble for $14,306, for materials furnished and
work done in the construction of the Noble Building, in
Phoenix, Arizona; that the company had taken the necessary steps, under the provisions of the mechanics' lien
statutes, to fix a lien upon the building and the lands on
which it stood; that in March, 1908, the company instituted a suit to enforce the lien and the payment of the
claim; that Noble, one Hugo Richards, and others, were
joined as defendants in that action; that Richards at the
time held a mortgage upon the premises, which had been
given to him for the use and benefit of the Bank of Arizona,
the Bank being the real party in interest; that while the
action was pending, and on or about November 30, 1908,
it was agreed between the Bank and the Haverty Company that if the Company would prosecute its suit to
judgment the Bank would buy its demand and claim of

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

lien and pay the Company for it the sum of $9,313.90
upon assignment of the judgment to the Bank; the sum
just mentioned being the amount claimed by the Company
($14,306) less the sum of $4,992.10, which was the value
of two boilers and a certain heating apparatus and certain
tools, furnished by the Haverty Company and used in
the construction of the building, and for which the Company claimed a lien; which boilers, heating apparatus and
tools the Company was to be at liberty to remove from
the building if this could be done without injury thereto;
that thereupon the Company agreed to sell to the Bank
its demand against Noble and its claim for a lien upon the
premises, and agreed to prosecute the action thereon to
judgment, and to assign the judgment to the Bank; that
the Company proceeded with its action, and recovered
therein a judgment for $12,429.22, with a foreclosure of
its lien; and that thereafter the Company was ready and
offered to assign the judgment to the Bank, but the Bank
refused to receive it or to pay the agreed sum of $9,313.90
for it.
The Bank, by demurrer to the complaint and afterwards
by answer, interposed the defense that the Company had
failed to perform the agreement, in that it had recovered a
judgment for only $12,429.22, and that although the claim
for lien set up by the Company in its suit against Noble
was one alleged to be prior and superior to the lien of the
mortgage held by Richards for the benefit of the Bank, it
was by the judgment in that suit determined to be inferior
and subordinate to the Bank's lien.
There was a trial by jury, in the course of which it appeared that the alleged agreement, if made at all, was
made between attorneys representing the Haverty Company, and attorneys representing the Bank. The principal questions of fact were whether the agreement was
made substantially as alleged, and, if so, then whether
the Bank's attorneys were specially authorized to make it,

BANK OF ARIZONA v. HAVERTY.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

or whether the Bank afterwards ratified their action with
knowledge of the facts. There was a verdict for the plaintiff for the full amount claimed, and, on appeal, the resulting judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the
Territory (13 Arizona, 418); whereupon the present writ
of error was sued out.
It is insisted that the evidence fails to show that the attorneys who acted for the Bank were authorized by it to
enter into the alleged agreement to purchase the Haverty
claim. But we think there was sufficient evidence to support the verdict of the jury in favor of plaintiff upon this
question.
It is also insisted that the parties never in fact came to
an agreement, because an item of about $100 for certain
freight charges was left open for further consideration.
But the jury was warranted by the evidence in finding
that an agreement had in fact been reached before the
question respecting freight was raised.
The principal contention here, as in the court below, is
that the agreement alleged and proved was not performed, in that the Haverty Company did not prosecute
its claim to judgment; the claim having been for $14,306,
with a prior lien upon the building and lots, but subject
to a deduction of $4,992.10, provided the boilers and tools
could be removed without injury to the building; while the
judgment recovered was for $12,429.22, with a lien subordinate to the Bank's mortgage. We agree with the
court below that neither the averments of the complaint
nor the evidence at the trial imported a guaranty on the
part of the Haverty Company as to the exact amount of
the judgment or the precise status of the lien. The evidence tended to show that the agreement was made as a
compromise between the Bank and the Haverty Company,
in view of doubts that had arisen whether in law the lien
of the Haverty Company was entitled to priority over the
Bank's mortgage.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

232 U. S.

Error is assigned respecting certain remarks made by
counsel for plaintiff in addressing the jury; but if there was
any impropriety it was cured by the instructions of the
trial judge.
The only other point deserving notice is the contention
that the motion of plaintiff in error (defendant below) for
a direction of a verdict in its favor ought to have been
granted because of ยง 4, c. 99, p. 230, Session Laws 1907 of
Arizona, which is in effect that a contract for sale of any
chose in action of the value of $500 or upwards shall not
be enforceable unless some note or memorandum in writing be signed by the party to be charged, or his agent.
Assuming-what is not clear-that the point was brought
to the attention of the trial court, it is sufficient for present
purposes to say that there is nothing in the record to show
that the question was raised upon the appeal to the territorial Supreme Court. Gila Valley &c. Railway Co. v.
Hall, ante, p. 94, and cases cited.
Judgment affirmed.

ROSS v. DAY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE. OF
OKLAHOMA.
No. 122.

Argued December 11, 1913.-Decided January 5, 1914.

Whether parties had actually improved Cherokee lands in such sense
as to give them a preferential right of selection and allotment under
ยง 11 of the act of July 1, 1902, c. 1375, 32 Stat. 716, is not a mere
question of law but one of fact and law, and, as far as it involves the
drawing of correct inferences from the evidence it is a question of
fact.
Where, in such a case, the whole controversy depends upon whether the
allotment was in accord with actual ownership of the improvements

