OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

232 U. S,

ATLANTIC COAST LINE RAILROAD COMPANY v.
CITY OF GOLDSBORO, NORTH CAROLINA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
CAROLINA.
No. 112.

Argued December 10, 1913.-Decided February 24, 1914.

Whether a municipal ordinance is within the power conferred by the
legislature upon the municipality is a question of state law.
A municipal ordinance within the power delegated by the legislature
is a state law within the meaning of the Federal Constitution.
Any enactment, from whatever source originating, to which a State
gives the force 'of law is a statute of the State within the pertinent
clause of § 237, Judicial Code, conferring jurisdiction on this court.
A railroad charter may embody a contract within the protection of
the Federal Constitution.
Although the state court may have held that there was a contract, but
that it was subject to constitutional reserved power to alter and repeal, this court, in reviewing that judgment under § 237, Judicial
Code, will determine for itself the existence or non-existence of the
asserted contract and whether its obligation has been impaired.
While a railroad company which devotes a part of its right of way to
public use inconsistent with railway purposes may not lose its property right therein, the State may in the exercise of its police power
and for the protection of the public so using such property, require
the company to so use its other property as not to endanger the public, applying the principle underlying the maxim sic utere tuo ut
alienum non kWsas.
Neither the "contract clause" nor the "due process clause" of the
Federal Constitution overrides the power of the State to establish
necessary and reasonable regulations under its police power, a
power which can neither be abdicated nor bargained away and subject to which all property rights are held.
The enforcement of uncompensated obedience to a properly enacted
police regulation for public health and safety is not an unconstitutional taking of property without compensation or without due
process of law.
The constitutional validity of ordinances affecting public safety as
affected by railroads must be considered not only in view of charter

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. GOLDSBORO.
232 U. S.

549

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

and property rights but also of the consent and acquiescence of the
owners of railroads.
Ordinances limiting speed of trains; requiring notice of their approach,
fixing hours for shifting cars and periods of stoppage of cars, and requiring the adjustment of tracks to the established grade of the
streets, in business sections of the municipality, are properly within
the police power of the municipality, and when fairly designed to
promote the public health and -safety do not violate the contract
clause 'or due process clause of the Federal Constitution.
Ordinances of the City of Goldsboro, North Carolina, regulating speed
of trains, notice of their approach, periods for car shifting and length
of time of car stoppages and requiring adjustment of grades of tracks
to grades of streets in business section of the town, held proper and
reasonably suited to the purposes they are intended to accomplish
and therefore that they do not impair the obligation of the charter
of a railroad occupying those streets, nor do they take any of its
property without due process of law.
155 Nor. Car. 356, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality of a
municipal ordinance regulating the operation of railroad
trains and the standing of the cars in the street and requiring the tracks to conform to the street grade and to
be filled in between the rails, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Frederic D. McKenney, with whom Mr. George B.
Elliott and Mr. George M. Rose were on the brief, for plaintiff in error:

The right of way of plaintiff in error is not a street.
Donahue v. State, 112 N. Y. 142; East Ala. Ry. Co. v.
John Doe, 114 U. S. 340; Ga. R. & B. Co. v. Union Point,
47 S. E. Rep. 183; Muse v. Railroad, 140 Nor. Car. 443;
Nor. Pac. Ry. Co. v. Townsend, 190 U. S. 267; Olive v.
Railroad, 142 Nor. Car. 257; Rev. Code Nor. Car., c. 65,
§ 23; McLucas v. St. Jo. &c. R. Co., 93 N. W. Rep. 928;
Poulonv. A. C. L. R. R. Co., 51 S. E. Rep. 657.
The city of Goldsboro has not power to prevent the use
of the franchise and property of the plaintiff in error, by
ordinance. A., T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Armstrong, 80 Pac.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

Rep. 978; B. & P. R. R. v. Baptist Church, 108 U. S. 317;
Chicago &c. Ry. Co. v. Joliet, 79 Illinois, 25; Drake v.
R. R., 7 Barb. 508; Morgan v. R. R., 98 Nor. Car. 247;
Moses v. R. R., 21 Illinois, 516; New Orleans v. L'enfant,
126"Louisiana, No. 17,995; Railroadv. Applegate, 8 Dana,
289; Railway Co. v. Brand, 4 Eng. & Ir. App. 171-196;
Taylor v. R. R., 145 Nor. Car. 400; Thomasson v. R. R.,
142 Nor. Car. 318; Yates v. Milwaukee, 10 Wall. 498.
This ordinance effects a taking of plaintiff's property
and franchise without due process of law, and impairs
the obligation of its contract with the State and the plaintiff in error is entitled to equitable relief. Atlanta v. Gate
City Gas Co., 71 Georgia, 106; Broadway States Co. v.
American Soc'y, 15 Abb. Pr. (N. S.) 51; Cleveland v.
City Ry. Co., 194 U. S. 517; Dobbins v. Los Angeles, 195
U. S. 223; Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123; Ga. R. & B. Co.
v. Atlanta, 118 Georgia, 486; Mobile v. L. & N. Ry. Co.,
84 Alabama, 115; Paulk v. Syracuse, 104 Georgia, 24; Prentiss v. Atlantic Coast Line, 214 U. S. 226; Railroad v.
Asheville, 109 Nor. Car. 688; Railroad v. Dunbar, 97
Illinois, 571; Rushville v. Gas Co., 132 Indiana, 575;
Smythe v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466; Sou. Ex. Co. v. Ensley,
116 Fed. Rep. 756; Water Works Co. v. Vicksburg, 185
U. S. 65.
Mr. Robert W. Winston, with whom Mr. J. Crawford
Biggs, Mr. D. C. Humphrey, Mr. J. D. Langston and
Mr. M. H. Allen were on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

The Atlantic Coast Line Railroad Company, plaintiff in
error, has succeeded to the ownership of the property, franchises, and rights of the Wilmington & Raleigh Railroad
Company, which was chartered by the General Assembly
of North Carolina in the year 1833, and whose name was

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. GOLDSBORO.
232 U. S.

551

Opinion of the Court.

afterwards changed to Wilmington & Weldon Railroad
Company. Under its charter powers the original company
constructed its railroad from Wilmington to and into
Wayne County, North Carolina, passing through the place
which later, and in the year 1847, became incorporated
as the Town of Goldsboro, now the City of Goldsboro,
defendant in error.
For the purposes of its railroad, the Wilmington &
Raleigh Company acquired a strip of land 130 feet wide
extending through Goldsboro from north to south, and
constructed its road upon it before the incorporation
of the town. The land was acquired in part under deeds
conveying title in fee simple, in part by condemnation
proceedings which conferred upon the Company, as is
claimed, the equivalent of a fee simple. Afterwards, two
other companies, designated respectively as the North
Carolina Railroad Company and the Atlantic & North
Carolina Railroad Company, with the consent and permission of the Wilmington & Raleigh, or Wilmington
& Weldon, and under agreements with that company,
constructed their railroad tracks upon the same "right
of way."
The town naturally grew along the railroad, and the
right of way, so far as not occupied by the tracks, was and
still is used for the ordinary purposes of a street, without
objection by plaintiff in error or its predecessors in title.
In laying out the town, this right of way was designated
as a street 130 feet wide; the portion lying east of the
tracks being designated as East Center Street, the portion
on the west of the tracks as West Center Street. Cross
streets were laid out, designated successively (commencing at the north) as Holly, Beech, Vine, Oak, Ash, Mulberry, Walnut, Chestnut, Spruce, Pine, and Elm Streets.
East and West Center Streets have become the principal
business street of the town, and the portion between Ash
and Spruce-four blocks-is the heart of the city.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

During the years since the incorporation of Goldsboro
numerous industries have been and are now located on
East and West Center Streets, and the track of plaintiff
in error, in addition to its use as a part of the main line,
has been and is used by the Company in shifting cars into
and out of these industries, and also for reaching the
freight terminals of the other two railroads, which are in
the northerly part of the town; the terminal of plaintiff
in error being in the southerly part. A belt line has been
built around the city, over which through passenger trains
an some freight trains are moved, but the use of the old
main line for connecting with the other terminals, for shifting cars into industries and loading tracks along the right of
way, and for the passage of certain of its trains, is claimed
by plaintiff in error to be still essential to its business.
The municipal corporation has for many years worked
and maintained its streets and cross streets, including so
much of the surface of East and West Center Streets as
lies outside of the space actually occupied by the railroad
tracks. More recently it has instituted a system of street
grades and of drainage extending throughout the city, and
has paved a considerable part of East and West Center
Streets in conformity to the grade so established. From
Chestnut Street north the railroad tracks are (or, at least,
prior to the municipal action. complained of they were),
from 6 to 18 inches above the established street grade;
the tracks south of Chestnut Street being in a cut from
1 to 8 feet deep.
In November, 1909, the Board of Aldermen passed an
ordinance or ordinances containing the following provisions: Section 1 rendered it unlawful for any railroad company to run any freight or passenger train on East or
West Center Streets at a rate of speed exceeding four
miles per hour, and required the companies to have flagmen proceed fifty feet in front of every train to warn persons of its approach. Section 2 provided that the shifting

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. GOLDSBORO.
232 U. S.

553

Opinion of the Court.

limits on East and West Center Streets should be from
Spruce Street to the city limits on the south, and from
Ash Street to the city limits on the north; thus excluding
the four blocks between Spruce and Ash Streets. Section 3 declared it to be unlawful for any railroad company
to do any shifting within those four blocks at any other
time than between the hours of 6.30 and 8.30 a. m., and
between 4.30 and 6.30 p. m. Section 4 rendered it unlawful for any railroad company to place any car and allow it
to stand for a longer period than five minutes at any point
on East and West Center Streets within the same four
blocks. Section 5 required all railroad companies owning
tracks on East and West Center Streets between Walnut
and Vine (four blocks) to lower the tracks so as to make
them conform to the grade line of the streets, and to fill in
the tracks between the rails; the required lowering being
specified as 6 inches from Walnut to Mulberry, 10 inches
between Mulberry and Ash, and 18 inches between Ash
and Vine Streets. Substantial penalties were prescribed
for violations of these prohibitions.
Plaintiff in error began this action against the City of
Goldsboro in the Superior Court of Wayne County, seeking to restrain the enforcement of the ordinances. A temporary restraining order was granted. At the hearing, the
objection to the enforcement of § 1 was abandoned by
plaintiff; as to the other sections the court vacated the
restraining order. Upon appeal, the Supreme Court of
North Carolina affirmed the judgment. 155 Nor. Car.
356. The present writ of error under § 709, Rev. Stat.
(Judicial Code, §237), is based upon the insistence, made
in the state courts and there overruled, that the ordinances
impair the obligation of the contract contained in the
charter of the Company, in contravention of § 10 of
Art. I of the Federal Constitution, and deprive the Company of its property without due process of law, in contravention of the Fourteenth Amendment,

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

The Supreme Court of the State construed the section
forbidding shifting as having reference to the "cutting
out and putting.in" of cars in the making up of a train
before it is dispatched upon its journey, and not as referring to the "transfer" of a train of cars, already made
up by plaintiff in error, to another railroad company for
transportation. In view of the fact that plaintiff in error
has shifting yards farther from the center of the city, where
its trains can be made up and at least the chief part of the
necessary shifting done, the court held it to be a reasonable
exercise of the police power to forbid car shifting, except
within the limited hours specified, on the four blocks of
the plaintiff's track that lie in the heart of the city; declaring this regulation to be necessary for the convenience and
safety of the public at the crossings.
With reference to the section requiring the lowering of
the tracks between Walnut and Vine Streets so as to make
them conform to the grade lines of the streets, the court
held that the Company took its charter subject to the
right of the State to lay out new roads and streets and to
require the Company to make such alterations'as would
prevent the public passage over' its tracks from being
impeded; and that there was no contract exempting the

Railroad from changing its grade at crossings when required.
In this court, plaintiff in error abandons its attack upon
the right of the City to require a change of grade at the
street crossings. The controversy, therefore, is now limited to (a) the restrictions imposed by §§ 2 and 3 upon
shifting operations on East and West Center Streets between Spruce and Ash Streets; (b) the prohibition of § 4
against the standing of cars for a longer period than five

minutes within the same four blocks, and (c) the requirement .under § 5 that the tracks from Walnut to Vine
Streets shall conform to the grade of East and West Center
Streets and shall be filled in between the rails, elsewhere

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. GOLDSBORO.
232 U. S.

555

Opinion of the Court.

than at the crossing streets. Upon the argument, it was
stated by counsel represeriting the City that plaintiff in
error had complied with the decision of the state court
as to § 5, at least to the extent of lowering its tracks. But
there was no clear admission of the fact in behalf of plaintiff in error, and we shall therefore disregard the supposed
compliance.
It is among other things contended by plaintiff in error
that the ordinances are not within the powers conferred
by the Legislature of North Carolina upon the municipal
corporation. This is a question of state law, which for
present purposes is conclusively settled by the decision of
the Supreme Court of North Carolina in this case. Merchants' Bank v. Pennsylvania,167 U. S. 461, 462, and cases
cited; Lombard v. West Chicago Park Com., 181 U. S. 33,
43.
A municipal by-law or ordinance, enacted by virtue of
power for that purpose delegated by the legislature of the
State, is a state law within the meaning of the Federal
Constitution. New Orleans Water Works v. Louisiana
Sugar Co., 125 U. S. 18, 31; Hamilton Gas Light Co. v.
Hamilton City, 146 U. S. 258, 266; St. Paul Gas Light Co.
v. St. Paul, 181 U. S. 142, 148; Northern Pacific Railway
v. Duluth, 208 U. S. 583, 590; Grand Trunk Ry. v. Indiana
R. R. Comm., 221 U. S. 400, 403; Ross v. Oregon, 227 U. S.
150, 162.
And any enactment, from whatever source originating,
to which a State gives the force of law, is a statute of the
State, within the meaning of the pertinent clause of § 709,
Rev. Stat.; Judicial Code, § 237; which confers jurisdiction
on this court. Williams v. Bruffy, 96 U. S. 176, 183.
We must, therefore, treat the ordinances as legislation
enacted by virtue of the law-making power of the State.
They are manifestly an exertion of the police power, and
the question is whether, viewed in that light, they run
counter to the "contract" or "due process" clauses.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

That a railroad charter may embody a contract, within
the meaning of the Constitution, hardly needs to be stated.
Dartmouth College v. Woodward, 4 Wheat. 518. In the
present case the Supreme Court of North Carolina held
that by the constitution of the State, the charter was subject to alteration or repeal at the legislative will. If the
right of repeal was indeed thus reserved, the result is
obvious. Greenwood v. FreightCo., 105 U. S. 13, 21; Knoxville Water Co. v. Knoxville, 189 U. S. 434, 437. But when
this court has under review the judgment of a state court
by virtue of §709, Rev. Stat., and the validity of a state
law is challenged on the ground that it impairs the obligation of a contract, this court must determine for itself the
existence or non-existence of the asserted contract, and
whether its obligation has been impaired. Douglas v.
Kentucky, 168 U. S. 488, 502; Stearns v. Minnesota, 179
U. S. 223, 233. We are not referred to and are unable to
find, in the state constitution as it existed when the charter
now in question was granted, any reservation of the right
of repeal, and will assume for present purposes that the
contract was not thus qualified, and deal only with the
question whether it has been impaired.
Plaintiff in error lays more particular stress upon the
insistence that its property rights in 'the street Will be
infringed by the enforcement of the ordinances. Because
its predecessors acquired the strip of land in fee simple, and
because the municipal corporation has never condemned
it or made compensation for its use as a street, the contention is that the title of the railroad company remains
until now, absolute and unqualified. Reference is made
to Rev. Code of Nor. Car., c. 65, §23. This section, it
seems, became law in North Carolina in the year 1854,
and has remained upon the statute books continuously
until the present time, appearing now as §388 of the
Revisal of 1908; see also Code 1883, § 150. It provides
that "No railroad, plank road, turnpike or canal company

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. GOLDSBORO.
232 U. S.

557

Opinion of the Court.

shall be barred of, or presumed to have conveyed, any
real estate, right of way, easement, leasehold, or other
interest in the soil which may have been condemned, or
otherwise obtained for its use, as a right of way, depot,
station-house or place of landing, by any statute of limitation or by occupation of the same by any person whatever." Two cases, Railroad v. Olive, 142 Nor. Car. 257,
271, and Muse v. Railroad, 149 INor. Car. 443, 446, are
cited as supporting the proposition that under this statute
a permissive user of any portion of the railroad right of
way by others, or even by the public as a street, cannot
impair the title of the company unless at least there be
adverse user or possession for a sufficient period to satisfy
the statutes on that subject; and it is insisted there has
been none. But in both cases the question was as to the
effect of the permissive user or possession upon merely
private rights, and in the Muse Case it was expressly conceded (149 Nor. Car. 446) that the rights of the railroad
company in that portion of its right of way that had been
used as a street, were subject to the police power of the
town. In the present case, likewise, the state court (155
Nor. Car. 363) treated the question of the ownership of the
soil as not involved in the decision.
And we are not at present particularly concerned with
either contract or property rights, except as they may serve
to show the conditions under which the ordinances were
adopted, and may bear upon the question of the reasonableness of those regulations. These have to do with the
use and control of the property, rather than with its
ownership; with the mode in which the franchise shall be
enjoyed, rather than with its scope. Conceding, for
argument's sake only, the utmost that may be claimed as
to the charter and property rights of plaintiff in error, we
still have yielded nothing that may defeat the exercise
of the police power by the State, or by its authorized
agency. Adopting the extreme assumption that the rail-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

road company has still a complete and unqualified ownership of every portion of the strip of land that was originally
acquired in fee simple, and as proprietor might lawfully
exercise its dominion by excluding the public from it;
yet it does not do this, but permits, and long has permitted, the public to use material portions of the strip for
ordinary street purposes; it apparently excludes the public
from no portion except as the existence of the tracks and
the passage of trains may have such a tendency or effect.
And thus the Company, at least for the time, devotes its
property in part to public uses that are more or less inconsistent with the railroad uses, and under conditions
such as to render the railroad operations necessarily a
source of danger to the public while enjoying the permitted
use. Under such circumstances the State, in the exercise
of the police power, may legitimately extend the application of the principle that underlies the maxim sic utere
tuo ut alienum non ltedas, so far as may be requisite for the
protection of the public.
For it is settled that neither the "contract" clause nor
the "due process" clause has the effect of overriding the
power of the State to establish all regulations that are
reasonably necessary to secure the health, safety, good
order, comfort, or general welfare of the community; that
this power can neither be abdicated nor bargained away,
and is inalienable even by express grant; and that all contract and property rights are held subject to its fair exercise. Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 62; Munn v.
Illinois, 94 U. S. 113, 125; Beer Co. v. Massachusetts, 97
U. S. 25, 33; Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623, 665; Crowley
v. Christensen, 137 U. S. 86, 89; New York &c. R. R. Co.
v. Bristol, 151 U. S. 556, 567; Texas &c. R. R. Co. v. Miller,
221 U. S. 408, 414, 415. And the enforcement of uncompensated obedience to a regulation established under this
power for the public health or safety is not an unconstitutional taking of property without compensation or without

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. GOLDSBORO.
232 U. S.

559

Opinion of the Court.

due process of law. Chicago, Burlington &c. Railroad v.
Chicago, 166 U. S. 226, 255; New OrleansGas Co. v. Drainage Commissioners, 197 U. S. 453, 462; C., B. & Q. Ry. v.
DrainageCommissioners, 200 U. S. 561, 591, 592.
Of course, if it appear that the regulation under criticism is not in any way designed to promote the health,
comfort, safety, or welfare of the community, or that the
means employed have no real and substantial relation
to the avowed or ostensible purpose, or that there is
wanton or arbitrary interference with private rights,
the question arises whether the law-making body has
exceeded the legitimate bounds of the police power.
The ordinances now in question must be considered in
view not only of the charter and property rights of plaintiff in error, but of the actual situation that has developed
and now exists in Goldsboro, with the consent and long
acquiescence of plaintiff in error and its predecessors in
interest. A town of considerable size and importance
has grown up along the line of the railroad. The strip of
land 130 feet in width, so far as it is not occupied by the
railroad tracks, for many years has been and still is used
for the ordinary purposes of a street. The Supreme Court
of North Carolina found, upon adequate evidence, that
it is the main business street of the town, frequently
crowded with pedestrians and vehicles; and that the
operation of trains along it, notwithstanding the utmost
care of the railroad company, tends to obstruct the
crossings and is fraught with danger to life and property.
There are, within the blocks covered by the ordinances,
two main lines of railway besides that of plaintiff in error.
These of course complicate the situation by narrowing the
spaces available for ordinary travel north and south on
East and West Center Streets, and must also enhance the
dangers at the crossings.
It is very properly conceded that the company may be
required to limit the speed of its trains and to have flag-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

men precede them to warn persons of their approach; and
that the company may be required to change its grade at
the street crossings. In New York &c. R. R. Co. v.
Bristol, 151 U. S. 556, 567, this court sustained a Connecticut statute directed to the extinction of grade crossings as a menace to public safety, and compelling this to
be done at the expense of the companies, although the
grade crossings had been long before established under
legislative authority. In Chicago, Burlington &c. R. R.
v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226, 251, it was held that when the
city opened a new street across the railroad it was not
bound to take and pay for the fee in the land, but only to
make compensation to the extent that the value of the
company's right to use the land for railroad purposes was
diminished by opening the street across it; and that the
company was not entitled to have its compensation increased because of the fact that in order to safeguard the
crossing it would thereafter be obliged to construct gates,
and a tower for operating them, plank the crossing, fill in
between the rails, and incur certain annual expenses for
depreciation, maintenance, employment of gatemen, etc.
To the same effect are Wabash Railroad Co. v. Defiance,
167 U. S. 88, 97; Chicago &c. Railroad v. Nebraska, 170
U. S. 57, 75; Northern Pacific Ry. v. Duluth, 208 U. S.
583, 597; Cincinnati &c. Ry. v. Connersville, 218 U. S.
336, 343; Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. v. Minneapolis, decided this day, ante, p. 430. And see Grand Trunk Western Ry. v. South Bend, 227 U. S. 544, 554.
But manifestly the tracks cannot be brought to the
street grade at the crossings without being lowered
between the crossings as well. And if this is to be done, it
follows that not merely the tracks but the surface adjacent
to the tracks must be made to conform to the established
grade of East and West Center Streets between the crossing streets; or else the street will be rendered materially
less convenient for purposes of north-and-south travel,

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. GOLDSBORO.
232 U. S.

561

Opinion of the Court.

and the drainage will be materially interfered with; or at
least the municipal authorities might reasonably so deter-:
mine. The establishment of a proper system of drainage
for the City in the interest of the public health and general
welfare is an object that legitimately invokes the exercise
of the police power. New Orleans Gas Co. v. Drainage
Commission, 197 U. S. 453, 460.
As to filling in between the rails, elsewhere than at the
crossing streets, we have to do not merely with the necessities of drainage, but with the safety of persons crossing
the railroad tracks midway of the respective street blocks.
The power of the State to prescribe precautions with
respect to the running of railroad trains so as to guard
against injuries to the persons or property of others is not
confined to the establishment of such precautions at highway crossings. State enactments requiring railroad
corporations to maintain fences and cattle guards alongside the railroad have been repeatedly sustained. Missouri
Pacific Ry. Co. v. Humes, 115 U. S. 512, 522; Minneapolis
Ry. Co. v. Beckwith, 129 U. S. 26, 34; Minneapolis & St.
Louis Ry. v. Emmons, 149 U. S. 364, 366. For the purposes of the argument it may be conceded that no person
has the right as against the railroad company to pass over
its tracks except at one of the street intersections; although this may not be entirely clear. But unless excluding fences be established adjacent to the railroad
tracks (and this is not proposed nor even suggested as
feasible), it is inevitable that many people, with or without right (children of tender years, among others), will
cross at places other than the street intersections; and a
police regulation intended to prevent injuries to persons
thus crossing cannot be judicially denounced as arbitrary.
Other grounds for sustaining § 5 might be mentioned; but
we need not further particularize.
There remain only the limitation of car shifting and the
prohibition of the standing of cars upon East and West
VOL. ccxxxii-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

Center Streets in the four blocks that lie between Spruce
and Ash Streets, in the heart of the City. As already
pointed out, the state court construed "shifting" as
applying only to the "cutting out and putting in" of
cars in the making up of trains. This operation is not to
be performed within the four blocks specified except during two hours in the morning and two hours in the afternoon of each day. The time limits were evidently adopted
with regard to the necessities of the industries that are
located along the railroad, and at the same time with a
view to the necessities of general travel upon the streets.
It was complained that the time allowed for shifting is
inadequate; but there is nothing in the proof on this
subject to overthrow the finding of the court that the
ordinance is a reasonable exercise of the police power.
The prohibition against the standing of cars for a
longer period than five minutes within the same four'
blocks is intended to prevent the loading and unloading of
cars in the street, with the attendant use of wagons and
drays for the purpose. In view of the obstruction to
street travel that is naturally incident to such operations,
the prohibition cannot be deemed wholly unreasonable.
In effect it prevents ordinary travel upon the street from
being thus obstructed, and requires that the loading and
unloading of cars shall be done at the regular freight
terminals.
The regulations in question are thus found to be fairly
designed to promote the public health, safety, and welfare;
the measures adopted appear to be reasonably suited to the
purposes they are intended to accomplish; and we are
unable to say that there is any unnecessary interference
with the operations of the railroad, or with the property
rights of plaintiff in error. Therefore, no violation of the
"contract" or "due process" clause is shown.
Judgment affirmed.

