OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

WOODWARD COMPANY v. HURD.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 142.

Argued December 17, 1913.-Decided February 24, 1914.

Where the manufacturer of one element of a combination is immune
under a decree of the Federal court, his customers of that element

who use it in connection with the other elements to make the completed article covered by the patent, are not also immune from suit.

THE facts, which involve the construction of a provision
of immunity in the decree in a patent case and the rights
of parties thereunder, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. C. K. Offield for the Woodward Company.
Mr. Walter E. Ward for Hurd.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered

the opinion of the court.

The recitals of the certificate with respect to the Grant
patent, and the decrees which have been rendered in suits
brought for its infringement, are identical with those
contained in the certificate in Seim v. Hurd, decided this
day, ante, p. 420. The questions certified are, in substance,
the same. The facts of the present case are thus stated
in the certificate:
"After the decision of the Supreme Court sustaining

the Grant patent Hurd commenced this suit, joining with
him the legal owner and licensee of the patent, against
defendants residing and doing business within Hurd's
exclusive territory. Defendant purchased the infringing
tires-the rubber portion only-not the metal channel or
retaining wires-from the Diamond Rubber Company of

WOODWARD CO. v. HURD.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

New York, which was the defendant in the former litigation and the rubber, metal channels and retaining wires
were sold by the defendant The Woodward Company to
be assembled and attached to the wheel rim of its purchasers and not by the Kokomo Company.
"Defendants now claim that the infringing tires-the
rubber stock only-used by them in their business was
made by the Kokomo Rubber Company which was the
defendant in the action in the District of Indiana where
the complaint was dismissed for want of equity, and sold
to them by the Diamond Rubber Company of New York
at the City of New York and there delivered."
It thus appears that the Kokomo Company did not
make the patented device but only one of its elementsthe rubber stock. Nor did the defendant itself make the
patented article. The defendant, buying from the Diamond Company the rubber that had been made by the
Kokomo Company and otherwise obtaining the necessary
channel of metal and the retaining wires, sold all the parts
to be united into the patented structure by its customers.
Neither the right of the Kokomo ,Company, by virtue of
the decree in its favor, to make and sell the patented
thing, or to make and sell its rubber, nor its right to have
the commodity which it lawfully produces freely move as
an article of commerce through the channels of trade without hindrance by the owners of the patent, is here involved.
See Rubber Tire Wheel Co. v. Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co.,
decided this day, ante, p. 413. The case as stated concerns
the liability of the defendant as a contributory infringer
upon the assumption that in the manner described it
assembles the various elements essential to the making of
the Grant tire and sells them with the intent and purpose
that they shall be so combined.
Can the defendant demand immunity upon the ground
that one of the elements in which it dealt was made and
sold by the Kokomo Company? We think not. It is not

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

232 U. S.

simply a purchaser of, or dealer in, that which the Kokomo
Company produces. The defendant goes beyond that;
it buys from others the parts that are as much needed in
effecting the patented combination as the rubber itself
and sells them in order that the infringing device may be
constructed by its customers.
The fourth question which is certified by the court below is:
"If the Kokomo Company is immune in making the
infringing rubber which is only one element of the combination of the patent are its customers who purchase
the rubber of the Kokomo Company and the metal rims
and retaining wires of other parties and sell them to be
assembled upon wheel rims making the completed structure of the patent also immune from prosecution?"
We answer this question in the negative. The other
questions are not raised by the case made and hence are
left unanswered.
It is so ordered.

CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE & ST. PAUL RAILWAY
COMPANY v. CITY OF MINNEAPOLIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MINNESOTA.
No. 150.

Argued December 19, 1913.-Decided February 24, 1914.

Railroad corporations may be required, at their own expense, not only
to abolish grade crossings, but also to build and maintain suitable
bridges or viaducts to carry highways, newly laid out, over their
tracks or to carry their tracks over such highways.
This rule has been declared as the established law of the State of
Minnesota by its highest courts.
The same rule applies to a highway laid out to increase the advantages

