OCTOBER TERM, 1913.

Syllabus.

232 U. S.

what the shipper had declared them to be in class and
value.
4. Nor was the result changed because of the use of
printed forms. This appears from the ruling in Hart v.
Pennsylvania R. R. Co., 112 U. S. 331, where it was
claimed that the shipper had not been asked to state the
value but had merely signed a printed contract naming a
value. The court said (p. 338): "The valuation named
was the 'agreed valuation,' the one on which the minds of
the parties met, however it came to be fixed, and the rate
of freight was based on that valuation, and was fixed on
condition that such was the valuation, and that the liability should go to that extent and no further." The rule
of the Hart, Carl and Harriman cases was not applied in
the court below, and the judgment must be
Reversed and the case remanded for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.

FARMERS AND MECHANICS SAVINGS BANK OF
MINNEAPOLIS v. STATE OF MINNESOTA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MINNESOTA.
No. 39. Argued May 8, 1913.-Decided February 24, 1914.
A question though novel itself may be solved by the application of
principles long established.
The entire independence of the General Government from any control
by the respective States is fundamental; and States may not tax
agencies of the Federal Government. M'Culloch v. Maryland, 4
Wheat. 316.
Territories are instrumentalities established by Congress for the gov-

FARMERS BANK v. MINNESOTA.
232 U. S.

Syllabus.

ernment of the people within their respective borders, with authority
to subdelegate the governmental power to the municipal corporations
therein, and the latter are therefore instrumentalities of the Federal
Government.
A tax upon the exercise of the function of issuing bonds is a tax upon
the operations of the municipal government; and to tax the bonds as
property in the hands of the holder is in effect a tax upon the right
of the municipality to issue them.A tax to any extent on bonds issued by a government or subdivision
thereof, however inconsiderable, is a burden on the operation of that
government. If allowed at all it may be carried to an extent which
shall entirely arrest such operations. M'CuUoch v. Maryland, 4
Wheat. 316.
A State may not tax bonds issued by a municipality of a Territory of
the United States. And so held as to an attempt by the State of
Minnesota to tax bonds issued by municipalities of the Indian Territory and the Territory of Oklahoma held by corporations in Minnesota.
There is no provision of law that makes obligations of municipalities
within the Indian Territory or the Territory of Oklahoma obligations
of the Territory, nor were such obligations assumed by the State of
Oklahoma on admission to Statehood.
Exemption from taxation is a material element in the obligation of a
bond issued by a municipality, and it will not be presumed that Congress would enact legislation that would impair that obligation by
eliminating the exemption without the clearest legislative language
expressing it.
Where bonds are exempted from state taxation under the Federal
Constitution they cannot be included as assets in ascertaining the
surplus of the corporation owning them for the purpose of imposing
a state property tax thereon.
When a state statute is attacked as denying equal protection of the
law by one class of those excepted from its benefits, the question of
constitutionality can be confined to the particular class attacking it,
and if there is reasonable ground for the classification as to that
class, it will be upheld to that extent without inquiring whether it is
constitutional as to the other classes affected by it.
A provision in a state tax statute excepting from an exemption banks,
savings banks and trust companies, is not unconstitutional under
the Fourteenth Amendment as discriminating against savings banks
as a class and denying them the equal protection of the law. The
state court having held that there were reasonable grounds for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

232 U. S.

classification, this court so holds in regard to the statute of Minnesota involved in this action.
114 Minnesota, 95, reversed in part.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality of cer-

tain tax statutes of Minnesota as applied to bonds issued
by municipalities in Indian Territory and the Territory
of Oklahoma, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. William A. Lancaster, with whom Mr. C. B. Leonard
and Mr. Milton D. Purdy were on the brief, for plaintiff
in error:
The tax in question is a property tax. The general
opinion of the profession has been in favor of non-taxability' of bonds of territorial municipalities. Federal
agencies and instrumentalities are non-taxable by the
States. The Federal Government cannot tax the bonds
of the municipalities of a State. That part of §3, of c. 328,
Laws of 1907, permitting taxation on bonds of territorial
municipalities is unconstitutional.
In support of these contentions, see A., T. & S. Fe
Ry. V. Sowers, 213 U. S. 55; Bank of Commerce v. New
York, 2 Black, 620; Banks v. Supervisors, 7 Wall. 26;
Binns v. United States, 194 U. S. 486; Bonaparte v. Tax
Court, 104 U. S. 592; Faribaultv. Missner, 20 Minnesota,
396; Grether v. Wright, 75 Fed. Rep. 742; Hibernia Savings Society v. San Francisco,200 U. S. 310; Home Savings
Bank v. Des Moines, 205 U. S. 503; McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316; Mercantile Bank v. New York, 121
U. S. 138; Mormon Church v. United States, 136 U. S. 1;
Murphy v. Ramsey, 114 U. S. 15; National Bank v. Yankton, 101 U. S. 129; Noonan v. Stillwater, 33 Minnesota,
198; Plummer v. Coler, 178 U. S. 115; Pollock v. Farmers'
L. & T. Co., 157 U. S. 429; Snow v. United States, 18
Wall. 317; Society for Savings v. Coite, 6 Wall. 594; State v.
Canda C. C. Co., 85 Minnesota, 457; State v. Duluth Gas

FARMERS BANK -v. MINNESOTA.
232 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Co., 76 Minnesota, 96; State v. Pioneer Savings Co., 63
Minnesota, 80; State v. Weyerhauser, 68 Minnesota, 353;
The Banks v. The Mayor, 7 Wall. 16; Uitited States v.
Railroad Company, 17 Wall. 322; Weston v. Charleston,
2 Pet. 449, 468.
Mr. James Robertson and Mr. Lyndon A. Smith, Attorney General of the State of Minnesota, for defendant in
error:
The bonds in question were not, bonds of a territorial
municipality on May 1, 1908. A territorial government
is not responsible for the bonds issued by a municipal
corporation thereof. The United States Government is
not responsible for the liabilities incurred by a territorial
government. A municipal corporation of a Territory
of the United States is not such an agency of the Federal
Government that its bonds are bonds or obligations of the
United States.
Chapter 328, Minnesota Laws 1907, in excepting savings banks from the exemption of all other taxes allowed
generally to other holders of real estate mortgages, paying
the registry fee, does not unlawfully discriminate against
such savings banks and does not violate the equality clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment.
In support of these contentions, see: A. & P. R. R. V.
Le Seur, 2 Arizona, 428; Bells Gap R. R. v. Pennsylvania,
134 U. S. 232; Cent. Pac. R. R. v. California,162 U. S. 119;
Central Pac. R. R. v. California, 162 U. S. 121; Cotting v.
Kansas Stock Yards, 183 U. S. 79; Connolly v. Sewer
Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540; 1 Cooley on Tax., 3d ed., §§ 389397; Del. R. R. Tax Cases, 18 Wall. 206; Duncan v. Missouri, 152 U. S. 377; Dyer v. Melrose, 215 U. S. 594; Elmira
Say. Bank v. Davis, 125 N. Y. 595; Flint v. Stone-Tracy
Co., 220 U. S. 108; Gennette v. Brooklyn, 99 N. Y. 296;
Gray, Lim. on Taxing Power, § 1630; Grether v. Wright,
75 Fed. Rep. 742; Hibernia Saving Society v. San Fran-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

cisco, 200 U. S. 314; Home Ins. Co. v. New York, 134 U. S.
594; Kan. Pac. R. R. Co. v. A., T. & S. F. R. R., 112
U. S. 414; Lane Co. v. Oregon, 7 Wall. 77; Merc. Natl.
Bank v. Mayor, 172 N. Y. 35; Met. St. Ry. Co. v. New
York, 199 U. S. 1; Moore v. Treasurer, 7 Wyoming, 292;
Mutual Benefit Ins. Co. v. Martin Co., 104 Minnesota, 179;
M'Culloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316; McMillen v. Anderson, 95 U. S. 37; Nat. Bank v. Kentucky, 9 Wall. 353;
Osborne v. Bank, 9 Wheat. 738; People v. Ronner, 185
N. Y. 285; Providence Bank v. Billings,4 Pet. 514; Phwnix
Fire Ins. Co. v. Tennessee, 161 U. S. 174; Railroad Co. v.
Peniston, 18 Wall. 5; St. P. &c. Ry. Co. v. Todd, 142 U. S.
242; S. W; Oil Co. v. Texas, 217 U. S. 122; State v. Fitzgerald, 117 Minnesota. 192; State Tax on Foreign Held
Bonds, 15 Wall. 30'0; State v. West. Un. Tel. Co., 96 Minnesota, 22; State v. West. Un. Tel. Co., 165 Missouri, 521;
Thompson v. N. P. Ry., 9 Wall. 579; Van Brocklyn V.
Kentucky, 117,U. S. 151; West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Atty. Gen.,
125 U. S. 530; West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Massachusetts, 125
U. S. 530; West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Texas, 105 U. S. 460;
West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Pac. R. R. Co., 120 Fed. Rep. 984;
Weston v. Charleston,2 Pet. 467; Woodruff v. Oswego Starch
Factory, 177 N. Y. 23.
MR. JUSTICE PiTNEy delivered the opinion of the
court.
This writ of error brings under review a judgment of
the Supreme Court of Minnesota (114 Minnesota, 95)
affirming the judgment of a lower court, in proceedings
for the collection of taxes assessed against plaintiff in
error for the year 1908. Plaintiff in error is a savings
bank, having no capital stock, and was taxable under
§ 839, R. L. 1905, which provides for ascertaining the surplus remaining after deducting from its assets (other
than real estate, which is separately assessed), the amount

FARMERS BANK v. MINNESOTA,
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the deposits and of all other accounts payable; the
surplus to be taxed as "credits." The Supreme Court
of Minnesota held that this section imposes not a franchise but a property tax, and that the surplus of savings
banks as thus determined is taxable property. This construction is not questioned here; perhaps is not open to
question.

Two Federal questions are raised.
First, the Savings Bank insisted in the state courts,
and here renews the insistence, that certain bonds issued
by municipalities in Indian Territory and in the Territory
of Oklahoma, held by the bank, amounting to about
$700,000 in value, should have been omitted from the list
of its personal assets, for the reason that bonds of this
character are not taxable by the State.
This question, although novel, is to be solved by the
application of principles long established.
It was laid down by Mr. Chief Justice Marshall, speaking for this court in M'Culloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316,
430, 436, that the State could not constitutionally impose
taxation upon the operations of a local branch of the
United States Bank, because the bank was an agency
of the Federal Government, and the States had no power,
by taxation or otherwise, to hamper the execution by
that government of the powers conferred upon it by the
people. The supremacy of the Federal Constitution and
the laws made in pursuance thereof, and the entire independence of the General Government from any control
by the respective States, were the fundamental grounds
of the decision. The principle has never since been departed from, and has often been reasserted and applied.
Osborn v. U. S. Bank, 9 Wheat. 738, 859; Home Savings
Bank v. Des Moines, 205 U. S. 503, 513; Grether v. Wright,
75 Fed. Rep. 742, 753.
State taxation of national bank shares, as permitted by
the act of Congress, without regard to the fact that a

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

part or the whole of the capital of the bank is invested in
national securities which are exempt from taxation (Van
Allen v. Assessors, 3 Wall. 573, 583; Bradley v. People,
4 Wall. 459; National Bank v. Commonwealth, 9 Wall. 353,
359), is an apparent, not a real, exception. The same is
true of taxes upon the mere property of agencies of the
Federal Government. (Thomson v. Pwiftc Railroad, 9
Wall. 579, 589; Railroad Co. v. Peniston, 18 Wall. 5, 32,
34.) Indeed, these exceptions rest upon distinctions that
were recognized in the decision of M'Culloch v. Maryland.
Chief Justice Marshall said, in closing the discussion:
"This opinion . . . does not extend to a tax paid
by the real property of. the bank, in common with the
other real property within the State, nor to a tax imposed
on the interest which the citizens of Maryland may hold in
this institution, in common with other property of the
same description throughout the State. But this is a tax
on the operations of the bank, and is, consequently, a
tax on the operation of an instrument employed by the
government of the Union to carry its powers into execution. Such a tax must be unconstitutional." For a fuller
discussion of the Van Allen Case, see Home Savings Bank v.
Des Moines, 205 U. S. 503, 517.
The government of the respective Territories in question was that provided by the act of Congress of May 2,
1890 (26 Stat. 81, c. 182, pp. 81, 93), of which the first
28 sections created a temporary government for the
Territory of Oklahoma; while § 29 (p. 93), and subsequent sections established laws for the government of
what was thereafter to be known as the Indian Territory,
but without conferring general powers of local selfgovernment. To the territorial government of Oklahoma
legislative power was granted (§ 6), extending to "all
rightful subjects of legislation not inconsistent with the
Constitution and laws of the United States." Municipal
corporations were in contemplation. Sec. 7 provided that

FARMERS BANK v. MINNESOTA.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the legislative assembly should not authorize the issuing
of any bond or evidence of debt by any county, city, town,
or township for the construction of any railroad; thus
recognizing that the borrowing power might be employed
for other purposes. By § 11, certain provisions of the
Compiled Laws of Nebraska, in force November 1, 1889, so
far as locally applicable, were extended to and put in
force in the Territory until after the adjournment of the
first session of its legislative assembly; among these
being Chapter 14, entitled "Cities of the second class and
villages," which contains provisions for the organization
of municipal corporations, with power to borrow money
for public purposes. The Indian Territory was not made
an "organized Territory," but by § 31 certain general
laws of the State of Arkansas, as published in Mansfield's
Digest (1884), were put in force there until Congress
should otherwise provide; among these, the chapter relating to municipal corporations (§§ 722-959).
It is not disputed that the municipal bonds now in
question were lawfully authorized and are in every respect
valid obligations of the respective municipalities. Except
as such obligations they would hardly be treated as taxable
property in the hands of the holder.
The relation of the organized Territories to the United
States has been frequently adverted to. In National
Bank v. County of Yankton, 101 U. S.129, 133, which had
to do with the organic act of the Territory of Dakota
(12 Stat. 239), the court, speaking by Mr. Chief Justice
Waite, said:
"All territory within the jurisdiction of the United
States not included in any State must necessarily be
governed by or under the authority of Congress. The
Territories are but political subdivisions of the outlying
dominion of the United States. Their relation to the
geaoral government is much the same as that which
counties bear to the respective States, and Congress may

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

legislate for them as a State does for its municipal organizations. . . . Congress may not only abrogate
laws of the territorial legislatures, but it may itself legislate
directly for the local government. It may make a void act
of the territorial legislature valid, and a valid act void.
In other words, it has full and complete legislative authority over the people of the Territories and all the departments of the territorial governments. It may do for the
Territories what the people, under the Constitution of the
United States, may do for the States."
The Territory of Oklahoma, therefore, was an instrumentality established by Congress for the government of
the people within its borders, with authority to subdelegate the governmental power to the several municipal
corporations therein. These corporations were established for public and governmental purposes only, and
exercised their powers and performed their functions as
agents of the central authority. With respect to Indian
Territory, the situation under the act of 1890 was somewhat different, and the municipal corporations derived
their authority directly from the act of Congress.
No doubt, as is usual in such cases, the people of the
respective municipalities had a more immediate and
direct interest tfian others in the local government, and in
the local improvements that presumably may have been
constructed with the proceeds of the municipal .bonds.
But this interest was that of citizens and taxpayers, not
that of proprietors. And the policy of Congress, as
manifested in its legislation upon the subject, had regard
not merely, nor even chiefly, for the particular and immediate interests of the several municipalities. It looked
io the promotion of the prosperity and welfare of the whole
people of the United States, through the development of
organized self-governing communities-afterwards to become States of the Union-throughout the whole of the
public domain. With statehood as the ultimate aim and

FARMERS BANK v. MINNESOTA.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

purpose, the organic acts were consciously framed. They
were frequently if not always entitled-" An act to provide
a temporary govefnment for the Territory," etc.; and so
reads the title of the act of May 2, 1890.
In our opinion, therefore, the municipalities of the
Territory of Oklahoma and of Indian Territory were
instrumentalities and agencies of the Federal Government,
with whose operations the. States were not permitted to
interfere by taxation or otherwise, and the issuing of
municipal bonds was the performance of a governmental
function, within the established d6ctrine. And we deem
it immaterial that these bonds were not guaranteed by the
United States, or even (in the case of the Oklahoma bonds)
by the central government of the Territory.
The Supreme Court of Minnesota, conceding that the
municipalities were Federal agencies in the performance of
governmental functions, yet deemed that a material narrowing of the doctrine of M'Culloch v. Maryland,was to be
inferred from an expression contained in the opinion of
this court in National Bank v. Commonwealth, 9 Wall.
353, 362, where it was said: "The principle we are discussing has its limitation, a limitation growing out of the
necessity on which the principle itself is founded. That
limitation is, that the agencies of the Federal government
are only exempted from state legislation, so far as that
legislation may interfere with, or impair their efficiency
in performing the functions by which they are designed to
serve that government." And from a like expression
contained in the opinion in Railroad Company v. Peniston, 18 Wall. 5, 36: "It is,, therefore, manifest that
exemption of Federal agencies from state taxation is
dependent, not upon the nature of the agents, or upon
the mode of their constitution, or upon the fact that they
are agents, but upon the effect of the tax; that is, upon the
question whether the tax does in truth deprive them of
power to serve the government as they were intended to

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

serve it, or does hinder the efficient exercise of their
power. A tax upon their property has no such necessary
effect. It leaves them free to discharge the duties they
have undertaken to perform. A tax upon their operations
is a direct obstruction to the exercise of Federal powers."
But we deem it entirely clear that a tax upon the exercise of the function of issuing municipal bonds is a tax upon
the operations of the government, and not in any sense a
tax upon the property of the municipality. And to tax the
bonds as property in the hands of the holders is, in the
last analysis, to impose a tax upon the right of the municipality to issue them. In Weston v. City Council of Charlestori, 2 Pet. 449, 466; 468, which involved the right of the
city, acting under the authority of the State of South
Carolina, to ordain a tax upon United States stock in the
hands of the owner, Mr. Chief Justice Marshall, speaking
for the court, after reaffirming the principles settled in
M'Culloch v. Maryland, said (p. 468): "The American
people have conferred the power of borrowing money on
their government, and by making that government supreme, have shielded its action, in the exercise of this
power, from the action of the local governments. The
grant of the power is incompatible with a restraining or
controlling power, and the declaration of supremacy is a
declaration that no such restraining or controlling power
shall be exercised. The right to tax the contract to any
extent, when made, must operate upon the power to
borrow before it is exercised, and have a sensible influence
on the contract. The extent of this influence depends on
the will of a distinct government. To any extent, however
inconsiderable, it is a burthen on the operations of government. It may be carried to an extent which shall arrest
them entirely."
It is on this ground that United States bonds have
always been held exempt from taxation under authority of
the States. By like reasoning it has come to be recognized

FARMERS BANK v. MINNESOTA.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that bonds issued by the States axe not taxable by the
Federal Government, and it was upon this ground that this
court held, in Pollock v. Farmers Loan & Trust Co., 157
U. S. 429, 584, that the income tax provisions of the act
of August 15, 1894, were unconstitutional in that they
imposed a tax upon the income derived from municipal
bonds issued under the authority of the States.
It is contended by defendant in error that the situation
was changed by the admission of Oklahoma as a State,
combining both the Territory of Oklahoma and the Indian Territory. This was accomplished under the Enabling Act of June 16, 1906, 34 Stat. 267, c. 3335, and
was evidenced by the proclamation of the President, issued
November 16, 1907. By § 4 of Art. I of the Oklahoma
constitution the debts and liabilities of the Territory of
Oklahoma were assumed by the State.
The argument is that at the time of making the assessment for taxes against plaintiff in error, the Indian Territory and the Territory of Oklahoma had ceased to exist
as such for nearly six months, and that the bonds of the
municipalities of those Territories, being the obligations
of the territorial government, were by the constitution
assumed by the State. There seems to be no provision of
law that constitutes the bonds of the municipalities obligations of the territorial governments, and so the argument
falls to the ground at once.
But we are unwilling to intimate a concession that an
assumption by the State of Oklahoma of the obligation to
pay these bonds would operate to deprive the bondholders
of the exemption from taxation, previously enjoyed.
Presumably the municipal credit was enhanced and the
terms of the municipal borrowing rendered more favorable,
by the understanding that the bonds, being obligations
of an agency of the Federal Government, would be exempt from taxation by the several States. The value of
the bonds in the market was presumably thereby in-

OCTOBER TERM,' 1913.

Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

creased. Indeed, the state court in' the present case very
plainly declares (114 Minnesota, 109) that bonds of the
municipalities of the Territories, if not taxable by the
State, command a higher price on the market than bonds
of the municipalities of the States. To deprive bonds of
the former description of their immunity from state taxation, and this because of the subsequent action of Congress
in erecting the Territories into a State, with or without
an assumption by the new State of the obligations of the
former Federal agency, would be in effect to impair the
obligation of the contract; and this is so inconsistent with
the honor and dignity of the United States that such an
intent should not be presumed without the clearest legislative language requiring it.
It is, however, further suggested that the judgment
under review does not sustain a tax upon the bonds as
property, but only a tax upon the surplus of the Savings
Bank, computed by taking into the account all of its
assets, amounting to about $12,000,000, of which the
bonds were only about $700,000, and deducting therefrom
its liabilities. But as the surplus is treated as property
and taxed as such, it is obvious that some portion of the
burden of the tax is attributable to the ownership of the
municipal bonds. In Pank of Commerce v. New York City,
2 Black, 620, it was held that the State of New York in
taxing the capital of banks according to its valuation must
leave out of the calculation that portion of the capital
invested in the stocks, bonds, or other securities of the
United States not liable to taxation by the State. And
see Bank Tax Case, 2 Wall. 200; Home Savings Bank v.
Des Moines, 205 U. S. 503, 509.
It results that the inclusion of the bonds now in question
in the list of the assets of plaintiff in error, in ascertaining
its surplus for the purpose of imposing a state property tax
thereon, was repugnant to the Constitution of the United
States.

FARMERS BANK v. MINNESOTA.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The second Federal question arises out of the insistence
of the Savings Bank that it was entitled to have omitted
from the computation of its surplus for purposes of taxation certain notes held by it, amounting to about $161,000,
and secured by mortgages upon Minnesota real estate,
upon which mortgages a registry tax had been paid.
It appears that the Minnesota legislature, by Chap. 328,
Laws of 1907, provided a registry tax upon debts secured
by mortgages covering real property in the State, the
amount of the tax being fifty cents upon each $100, payable at or before the filing of the mortgage for record or
registration. By § 3 it was enacted that "All mortgages
upon which such tax has been paid, with the debts or
obligations secured thereby and the papers evidencing the
same, shall be exempt from all other taxes; but nothing
herein shall exempt such property from the operation of
the laws relating to the taxation of gifts and inheritances,
or those governing the taxation of banks, savings banks,
or trust companies"; with a further proviso not now
pertinent.
It was and is insisted that this section, in subjecting
banks, savings banks, and trust companies to double
taxation upon their mortgages covering real estate in the
State of Minnesota, while at the same time relieving mortgages upon such real estate, when otherwise owned, from
all taxation except the registration tax, is in contravention
of the "equal protection" clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Although the clause limiting the exemption includes
banks and trust companies, the Supreme Court of Minnesota declined to consider whether the classification was
proper with respect to those institutions, and so declining
dealt with the status of savings banks only. Holding
that this class of institutions under other laws enjoyed
privileges respecting taxation that were accorded to no
other person or corporation subject to taxation, the court
VOL. ccxxxii-34

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

held that savings banks might properly be treated as a
class by themselves, and required to include such mortgages in the computation of their assets for purposes of
taxation.
If there is no unconstitutional discrimination against
savings banks, it is for present purposes unnecessary to
inquire whether the act discriminates against other banks
and trust companies. Tyler v. Judges, 179 U. S. 405, 409;
Hooker v. Burr, 194 U. S. 415, 419; Hatch v. Reardon, 204
U. S. 152, 160; Southern Railway Co. v. King, 217 U. S.
524, 534; Standard Stock Food Co. v. Wright, 225 U. S.
540, 550; Rosenthal v. New York, 226 U. S. 260, 271.
The Supreme Court of Minnesota lucidly summarized
the state of the law which furnished, in its judgment, a
sufficient reason for the classification, as follows: "Section 839, Rev. Laws 1905, treats of savings banks, for the
purposes of taxation, in a special manner. They have no
capital stock, yet their property is not taxed in the same
way as the property of individuals or of other corporations.
By section 838 the value of the stock of corporations
having capital stock is ascertained by deducting the value
of the real and personal property from the market or actual value of the stock, and the amount of the difference
is taxed as stocks and bonds, and the real estate and personal property are taxed in the ordinary way. Section 839
places all banks without capital stock (except savings
banks), brokers, and stockjobbers in one class, and savings
banks in another class. The former are taxed by ascertaining the difference between the amount of money on
hand or in transit, the amount of money in the hands of
others subject to draft, the amount of checks or cash
items, etc., the amount of bills receivable and other credits,
and from the total of these amounts the deposits and
accounts payable are deducted. The balance, if any, is
assessed as money under Section 835' The bonds and
stocks and personal and real property are assessed sep-

PLYMOUTH COAL CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.
232 U. S.

531

Syllabus.

arately in the ordinary way. But in the case of savings
banks no specific property is taxed separately except real
property. Its money, checks, bills receivable, bonds, and
stocks, and all personal property appertaining to the
business, are listed for the purpose of ascertaining whether
there is a surplus, and the surplus is found by deducting
the total of the deposits and accounts payable from the
total value of the assets." 114 Minnesota, 110.
For these and other reasons pointed Qut in the opinion,
it seems to us the court was justified in holding that there
were reasonable grounds for the discrimination so far as
savings banks were concerned, and that plaintiff in error
had therefore not been deprived of the equal protection
of the laws. In lieu of further discussion we refer to the
oft quoted language employed by Mr. Justice Bradley,
speaking for this court, in Bell's Gap Railroad Co. v. Pennsylvania, 134 U. S. 232, 237.
But because of the error in subjecting the bonds of the
municipalities of the Territories to taxation, the judgment
must be reversed, and the cause remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Judgment reversed.

PLYMOUTH COAL COMPANY v. COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 102.

Argued January 15, 1914.-Decided February 24, 1914.

The business of mining coal is so attended with danger as to render it
the proper subject of police regulation by the State.
It is not an unreasonable exercise of the police power of the State to
require owners of adjoining coal properties to cause boundary pillars

