642

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

232 U. S.

GARLAND v. STATE OF WASHINGTON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
WASHINGTON.
No. 226. Submitted January 29, 1914.-Decided March 16, 1914.
Due process of law does not require the State to adopt any particular
form of procedure in criminal trials, so long as the accused has had
sufficient notice of the accusation and adequate opportunity to defend. Rogers v. Peck, 199 U. S. 425.
The want of a formal arraignment to a second information of the same
offense does not deprive the accused of any substantial right, and
where the course of the trial, otherwise fair, was not in any manner
affected to his prejudice, there is no denial of due process of law.
Technical objections, originating in the early period of English history
when the accused was entitled to but few rights, are passing away
and should not be allowed as to unimportant formalities where the
rights of the accused have not been prejudiced.
This court is reluctant to overrule fts former decisions, and it only
does so in this case because it appears that the right sustained in
a former case involving criminal procedure is no longer required for
the protection of the accused. Crainv. United States, 162 U. S. 625,
overruled so far as not in accord herewith.
65 Washington, 666, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the validity, under the due
process provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment, of a
conviction and sentence, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. William H. Gorham, Mr. 0. L. Willett and Mr.
Frank Oleson for plaintiff in error:
It was not due process of law to try, convict and sentence plaintiff in error on an information on which he had
never been arraigned and to which he had never pleaded.
Crain v. United States, 162 U. S. 625.
The due process of law clause of the Fourteenth Amendment places the same inhibition on the States as does the

GARLAND v. WASHINGTON.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Fifth Amendment on the Federal Government. Hibben
v. Smith, 191 U. S. 310.
The term "law of the land" is synonymous with the
term "due process of law." Missouri Pacific R. R. Co. v.
Himes, 115 U. S. 512.
It was neither due process of law nor the giving to the
plaintiff in error of the equal protection of the law to file
two informations against- him in the same case charging
substantially different crimes and put him on trial without
any notice to him as to which charge he would be required
to meet, and then sentence him on a general verdict of
guilty. Section 75, Rem. & Ballr's Code.
There cannot legally be two informations in the same
case at the same time. 22 Cyc. 275; Rice v. State, 15
Michigan, 9.
While there may not be any case in which this court has
ever passed on these exact points, see Hopt v. Utah, 110
U. S. 574; United States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 542.
Mr. Hugh M. Caldwell, Mr. John F. Murphy and Mr.
H. B. Butler for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error was convicted in the Superior Court
of King County, Washington, upon an information charging him with larceny of "a check payable for the sum of
one thousand dollars in money." Upon appeal the conviction was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Washington
(65 Washington, 666), and the case comes here upon writ
of error.
It appears that a previous information had charged the
accused with the larceny of "one thousand dollars ($1,000)
in lawful money of the United States." Upon that information he was arraigned, entered a plea of not guilty,
was tried and convicted. A new trial was awarded, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

thereafter the second information was filed, making the
charge as above stated. Before trial the plaintiff in error
filed a "motion directed to second information," containing a motion to quash, a motion to strike out and a motion
to make more definite and certain, all of which were denied.
No arraignment or plea was had upon that information.
The case having been called for trial and the jury having
been impaneled, the plaintiff in. error by his counsel objected to the introduction of any evidence upon the ground
that the State had no right to try the plaintiff in error on
the information then before the court. This general objection was overruled. No specific objection was taken
before the trial to the want of formal arraignment upon
the second information. The jury, at the conclusion of
the trial upon the second information, returned a verdict
of guilty and sentence was passed upon the plaintiff in
error.
. It is apparent that the accused was tried and convicted
upon an information charging an offense against the law;
that he had a jury trial, with full opportunity to be heard,
and that he was in fact deprived of no right or privilege
in the making of his defense, unless such deprivation arises
from the fact that he was not arraigned and required to
plead to the second information before trial. The object
of arraignment being to inform the accused of the charge
against him and obtain an answer from him, was fully
subserved in this case, for the accused had taken objections to the second information and was put to trial before
a jury upon that information in all respects as though he
had entered a formal plea of not guilty. In this view, the
Supreme Court of Washington, following its former decisions, held that the failure to enter the plea had deprived
the accused of no substantial right, and that having failed
to make objection upon that ground before trial it was
waived and could not be subsequently taken. This ruling,
it is contended, deprived the plaintiff in error of his liberty

GARLAND v. WASHINGTON.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

without due process of law within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution.
Due process of law, this court has held, does not require
the State to adopt any particular form of procedure, so
long as it appears that the accused has had sufficient
notice of the accusation and an adequate opportunity to
defend himself in the prosecution. Rogers v. Peck, 199
U. S. 425, 435, and previous cases in this court there cited.
Tried by this test it cannot for a moment be maintained
that the want of formal arraignment deprived the accused
of any substantial right or in any wise changed the course
of trial to his disadvantage. All requirements of due
process of law in criminal trials in a State, as laid down
in the repeated decisions of this court, were fully met by
the proceedings had against the accused in the trial court.
The objection was merely a formal one, was not included
in the general language in which the objection to the
introduction of evidence was interposed before the trial,
and was evidently reserved with a view to the use which is
now made of it, in an attempt to gain a new trial for want
of compliance with what in this case could have been
no more than a mere formality.
It is insisted, however, that this court in the case of
Crain v. United States, 162 U. S. 625, held the contrary.
In that case the question was specifically made as to the
necessity of a plea before trial, duly entered of record. The
learned Justice who spoke for the majority of the court
announced its conclusion approving a number of early
cases in the state courts which had held that such form of
arraignment entered of record was essential to a legal
trial and holding that in a Federal court no valid trial
could be had without the requisite arraignment and plea
and that such must be shown by the record of conviction.
If a legal trial cannot be had without a plea to the indictment duly entered of record before trial, it would follow
that such omission in the present case requires a reversal

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

of the judgment of conviction, because the prisoner has
been deprived of due process of law.
Technical objections of this character were undoubtedly
given much more weight formerly than they are now.
Such rulings originated in that period of English history
when the accused was entitled to few rights in the presentation of his defense, when he could not be represented
by counsel, nor heard upon his own oath, and when the
punishment of offenses, even of a trivial character, was of a
severe and often of a shocking nature. Under that system the courts were disposed to require that the technical
forms and methods of procedure should be fully complied
with. But with improved methods of procedure and
greater privileges to the accused, any reason for such
strict adherence to the mere formalities of trial would
seem to have passed away, and we think that the better
opinion, when applied to a situation such as now confronts us, was expressed in the dissenting opinion of Mr.
Justice Peckham, speaking for the minority of the court
in the CrainCase, when he said (p. 649):
"Here the defendant could not have been injured by an
inadvertence of that nature. He ought to be held to have
waived that which under the circumstances would have
been a wholly unimportant formality. A waiver ought to
be conclusively implied where the parties had proceeded as
if defendant had been duly arraigned, and a formal plea
of not guilty had been interposed, and where there was
no objection made on account of its absence until, as in this
case, the record was brought to this court for review. It
would be inconsistent with the due administration of
justice to permit a defendant under such circumstances to
lie by, say nothing as to such an objection, and then for
the first time urge it in this court."
Holding this view, notwithstanding our reluctance to
overrule former decisions of this court, we now are constrained to hold that the technical enforcement of formal

GRANT BROS. v. UNITED STATES.
232 U. S.

Syllabus.

rights in criminal procedure sustained in the Crain Case is
no longer required in the prosecution of offenses under
present systems of law, and so far as that case is not in
accord with the views herein expressed it is necessarily
overruled.
The other objection to the procedure in the state court
which it is alleged deprived-the plaintiff in error of due
process of law upon his trial, rests in the contention that
he was put to trial upon two informations, containing
different charges, without notice as to which charge he
would be required to meet, and sentenced upon a general
verdict of guilty. We think that the record discloses that
there is nothing in this objection of substantial merit, and
that it appears that the accused was put-to trial and convicted upon the second information, with every opportunity to defend himself against the offense therein charged.
Judgment of the Supreme Court of Washington is
accordingly
Affirmed.

GRANT

BROTHERS CONSTRUCTION
UNITED STATES.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME

CO.

v.

COURT OF THE TERRITORY

OF

ARIZONA.
No. 182.

Argued January 21,.22, 1914.-Decided March 16, 1914.

Errors alleged to have been committed by the trial court which do not
involve anything fundamental or jurisdictional must be regarded as
waived if they were not presented to the Supreme Court of the
Territory.
An action by the United States to recover penalties under the Alien
Contract Labor Law is civil and attended with the usual incidents
of a civil action. United States v. Regan, ante, p. 37.
Where an action for penalties was tried on the theory that the defend-

