PLYMOUTH COAL CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.
232 U. S.

531

Syllabus.

arately in the ordinary way. But in the case of savings
banks no specific property is taxed separately except real
property. Its money, checks, bills receivable, bonds, and
stocks, and all personal property appertaining to the
business, are listed for the purpose of ascertaining whether
there is a surplus, and the surplus is found by deducting
the total of the deposits and accounts payable from the
total value of the assets." 114 Minnesota, 110.
For these and other reasons pointed Qut in the opinion,
it seems to us the court was justified in holding that there
were reasonable grounds for the discrimination so far as
savings banks were concerned, and that plaintiff in error
had therefore not been deprived of the equal protection
of the laws. In lieu of further discussion we refer to the
oft quoted language employed by Mr. Justice Bradley,
speaking for this court, in Bell's Gap Railroad Co. v. Pennsylvania, 134 U. S. 232, 237.
But because of the error in subjecting the bonds of the
municipalities of the Territories to taxation, the judgment
must be reversed, and the cause remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Judgment reversed.

PLYMOUTH COAL COMPANY v. COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 102.

Argued January 15, 1914.-Decided February 24, 1914.

The business of mining coal is so attended with danger as to render it
the proper subject of police regulation by the State.
It is not an unreasonable exercise of the police power of the State to
require owners of adjoining coal properties to cause boundary pillars

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

232 U. S.

to be left of sufficient width to safeguard the employds of either mine
in case the other should be abandoned and allowed to fill with
water.
One attacking the constitutionality of a state statute must show that
he is within the class whose constitutional rights are injuriously
affected by the statute.
In determining whether the constitutional rights of a party have been
affected by a state statute, the courts will presume, until the contrary
is shown, that any administrative body to which power is delegated
will act with reasonable regard to property rights.
Except in such cases as arise under the contract clause of the Constitution it is for the court of last resort of the State to construe the
statutes of that State, and in exercising jurisdiction under § 237,
Judicial Code, it is proper for this court to await the construction of
the state court rather than to assume in advance that such court
will so construe the statute as to render it obnoxious to the Federal
Constitution.
If a statute be reasonably susceptible of two interpretations, one of
which would render it unconstitutional and the other valid, the
courts should adopt the latter, in view of the presumption that the
lawmaking body intends to act within and not in excess of, its constitutional authority.
In the absence of clear language to the contrary, a provision for decision
by a board in a publip matter will be construed to the effect that a
majority of such board shall act and decide. Omaha v. Omaha Water
Co., 218 U. S. 180.
Irl matters of police regulation where decisions on questions of public
safety are delegated to an administrative board the right of appeal on
other than constitutional grounds may be withheld by the legislature
in its discretion without denying due process of law.
The statute of Pennsylvania requiring owners of adjoining coal properties to cause barrier pillars to be left of suitable width to safeguard employ6s is not unconstitutional either as depriving the owners
of their property without due process of law or as denying them
equal protection of the law, or because f the procedure and method
prescribed for determining the width of such barrier or because it
delegates the matter to an administrative board or does not provide
for any appeal thereupon.
232 Pa. St. 141, affirmed.

THIS case involves the constitutionality of a section of
the Anthracite Mine Laws of the State of Pennsylvania,

PLYMOUTH COAL CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.
232 U. S.

533

Statement of the Case.

being § 10 of Art. III of the act of June 2, 1891 (Pub.
Laws pp. 176, 183), which reads as follows:
"It shall be obligatory on the owners of adjoining coal
properties to leave, or cause to be left, a pillar of coal in
each seam or vein of coal worked by them, along the line
of adjoining property, of such width, that taken in connection with the pillar to be left by the adjoining property
owner, will be a sufficient barrier for the safety of the
employ6s of either mine in case the other should be abandoned and allowed to fill with water; such width of pillar
to be determined by the engineers of the adjoining property owners together with the inspector of the district in
which the mine is situated, and the surveys of the face of
the workings along such pillar shall be made in duplicate
and must practically agree. A copy of such duplicate
surveys, certified to, must be filed with the owners of the
adjoining properties and with the inspector of the district
in whict the mine or property is situated."
Art. XVIII, under the head of "Definition of Terms,"
contains, inter alia, the following:
"The term 'owners' and 'operators' means any person
or body corporate who is the immediate proprietor or
lessee or occupier of any coal mine or colliery or any part
thereof. The term 'owner' does not include a person or
body corporate who merely receives a royalty, rent or
fine from a coal mine or colliery or part thereof, or is
merely the proprietor of the mine subject to any lease,
grant or license for the working or operating thereof, or is
merely the owner of the soil and not interested in the
minerals of the mine or any part thereof. But any 'contractor' for the working of a mine or colliery or any part.
or district thereof, shall be subject to this act as an operator or owner, in like manner as if he were the owner."
The record shows that the Lehigh & Wilkes-Barre Coal
Company and the Plymouth Coal Company are respectively the lessees or owners of adjoining coal properties

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

232 U. S.

situate at Plymouth, in Luzerne County, Pennsylvania;
that on August 31, 1909, Mr. Davis, the Inspector of
Mines of the district in which the properties are located,
wrote a letter to the president of the Plymouth Coal
Company which reads as follows:
"Wilkes-Barre, Pa., Aug. 31, '09.
"John C. Haddock, Pres. Plymouth Coal Co.

Dbear Sir: Kindly have your engineer report at my office
Thursday morning Sept. 2nd at 10 o'clock at which time
we can meet the engineer of the Lehigh & Wilkes-Barre
Coal Company to decide as to thickness of barrier pillar
to be left unmined between the properties of the Lehigh
& Wilkes-Barre Coal Company and the Plymouth Coal
Company, situated at Plymouth, Luz. Co., Pa., as per
Article 3, Section 10 Anthracite Mine Laws of this Commonwealth, which reads as follows" [quoting the section
verbatim].
[Signed] "D. T. DAVIS,
Inspector of Mines."
To this the following reply was made:
Wilkes-Barre, Pa.,
Sept. 1, 1909.
"Mr. D. T. Davis, Inspector, Ninth Anthracite Inspection District Wilkes-Barre, Pa.
DEAR SIR: I am in receipt of yours of the 31st ult.
Allow me to say in reply that while it would give us great
pleasure to meet you and the representatives of the
Lehigh & Wilkes-Barre Coal Company at the suggested
conference, to be held to-morrow, we cannot enter such a
conference to even consider, much less conclude an agreement that may affect our rights and our duty to our
lessors at the Dodson Colliery.
"I assume it is needless to assure you that we stand

PLYMOUTH COAL CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.
232 U. S.

535

Statement of the Case.

ready at all times to comply with any reasonable request
that may emanate from you or your office, but if I am
advised correctly, this request or demand originated with
the Lehigh & Wilkes-Barre Coal Company.
"This was their right to make as it is ours to decline.
Yours very truly,
[Signed]
JOHN C. HADDOCK,
PresidentThe Plymouth Coal Co."
Thereupon, pursuant to Article XV of the abovementioned statute, the Mine Inspector, acting in behalf
of the Commonwealth, filed his bill of complaint against
the Plymouth Coal Company in the Court of Common
Pleas of Luzerne County, setting forth the above facts
and averring that defendant refused to permit its engineer to meet with the Mine Inspector and the engineer of
the adjoining property owner to determine the width of
the barrier pillar, or to even consider the matter, and
refused to leave or cause to be left a pillar that, taken in
connection with the pillar to be left by the adjoining
property owner, would be a sufficient barrier for the
safety of the employ~s of either mine in case the other
should be abandoned and allowed to fill with water; that
defendant employed in its mine at least three hundred
persons, and the Lehigh & Wilkes-Barre Coal Company
employed in its mine at least seven hundred persons, and'
the refusal of the defendant endangered the lives and
safety of the employ6s of both mines. There was a
prayer for a preliminary and perpetual injunction to
restrain defendant from working its mine without leaving
a barrier pillar of coal of the thickness or width of at least
30 feet in each seam or vein worked by it along the line
of the adjoining property. Defendant answered, admitting the truth of the averments of the bill without qualification, except that it denied that any barrier was necessary for the safety of the employ~s of either mine in case

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

232 U. S.

the other mine should be abandoned. At the same time
it averred that the act of June 2, 1891, upon which the
bill was based "is confiscatory, unconstitutional and
void." There was a preliminary injunction, restraining
defendant from working its mine without leaving a barrier
pillar at least 70 feet wide. This was continued until the
final hearing, which resulted in a decree continuing the
injunction, but without prejudice to defendant's right
"to apply to the court for a dissolution or modification
thereof, upon showing to the satisfaction of the court
that the proper mine inspector and the engineers of the
defendant company and the Lehigh and Wilkes-Barre
Coal Company have, upon due investigation and consultation, determined that a barrier pillar of less width
than that stated in the injunction (that is, less than
seventy feet on defendant's property) is sufficient for the
protection of the men employed in the mines of either
company in case the mine of the other should be abandoned and allowed to fill with water, and have made
duplicate surveys and filed copies of the same as required
by law, or, upon su6h investigation and consultation shall
have decided that no such barrier pillar is necessary to the
safety of the employds of either company in the event
aforesaid."
Upon appeal the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania affirmed the decree (232 Pa. St. 141), and the case comes
here by virtue of § 237, Judicial Code, for adjudication
under the" due process" clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution..
Mr. William C. Price and Mr. John G. Johnson for
plaintiff in error:
The complaint of plaintiff in error is made solely on the
ground that the manner and method of fixing the width
of a barrier pillar between adjoining coal properties described in the Act is unconstitutional, and if allowed to

PLYMOUTH COAL CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.
232 U. S.

537

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

stand, will be productive of much injustice and consequent
litigation. It will be a very simple matter to prepare a
barrier pillar act, providing for the safety of employds in
mines, by requiring a barrier pillar, the width of which
shall be fixed by a competent tribunal, wherein all parties
interested may appear after proper notice, with their
witnesses and experts, providing also for the right of appeal.
The legislature under the police power of the State may
undoubtedly enact legislation requiring coal owners to
work their property in such manner as to prevent injury
to the property and employ~s of adjacent owners, but it
cannot arbitrarily create a tribunal with power to deprive
the coal owner of his property without right of appeal or
providing for notice or a hearing or some legal method of
procedure, and any legislation without such provisions
would be a taking of property without due process of
law.
Where any question of fact or liability is conclusively
presumed against a party there is not due process of law.
Rutherford'8 Case, 72 Pa. St. 82; Philadelphia v. Scott,
81 Pa. St. 80; Hancock v. Wyoming, 148 Pa. St. 635;
3 Words and Phrases, 2250; Kuntz v. Sumption, 2 L. R. A.
655,

A statute authorizing any debt or damage to be adjudged against a person upon purely ex parte proceedings,
without a notice or any provision for defending, violates
the Constitution and is void. In re Empire Bank, 18
N. Y. 199, 215; Cooley on Const. Limit., 7th ed.' 582;
Stewart v. Palmer, 74 N. Y. 183; In re Jensen, 59 N. Y.
Supp. 653; San Matteo v. So. Pac. R. Co., 13 Fed. Rep.
722. See also in re Rosser, 101 Fed. Rep. 562, 567; Londoner v. Denver, 210 U. S. 373.
Conceding that the right to insist upon barrier pillars
being left, was within the police power, the real question in
this case is, whether the manner of determination of their

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

232 U. S.

thickness required by the act was by a proceeding which
was due process of law.
There was no evidence offered in the court below, nor
any determination by it, that such width of pillar was
necessary.
The bill rested upon an averment of violation of the
act in refusing to appoint an engineer to meet for the
purpose of determining the width of the barrier pillar.
The coal ordered to be left unmined in the barrier pillar
amounted to 734,147 tons, which could be mined at a net
profit of about $300,000.
This prohibition against making use of some $300,000
worth of coal, amounts to a deprivation of property to
that extent.
While the legislature may, in the exercise of its police
power, compel the reservation of barrier pillars for the
protection of life and property, it is not necessary to consider whether, in the exercise of such power, it may prescribe the exact width of the pillar.

Sufficient for the

present purpose to say that it has not attempted to make
any such prescription. In the nature of things, it would
have been impossible to do so, because the width of the
pillar must, in each case, be determined with reference to
the situation of each particular property.
While under certain contingencies certain designated
officials may take immediate action required in conservation of health, the present case is not within that class.
While due process of law is not easy to define, no proceeding like the present has even been claimed, much less
decided, to be due process. Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S.
389; Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97; Murray v.
Hoboken, 18 How. 276.
Under this act plaintiff in error has been deprived of the

use of its property by a decree forbidding such use because
of its failure to submit its legal rights to a tribunal unable
to determine the same in due process of law.

PLYMOUTH COAL CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.
232 U. S.

539

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. John C. Bell, Attorney General of the State of Pennsylvania, with whom Mr. B. R. Jones, Mr. MorrisWolf and
Mr. William M. Hargest were on the brief, for defendant
inerror.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The statute in question is entitled "An Act to provide
for the health and safety of persons employed in and about
the anthraite coal mines of Pennsylvania and for the
protection and preservation of property connected therewith." It applies to every anthracite coal mine in the
Commonwealth employing more than ten persons; divides
the anthracite coal region into eight inspection districts,
with a mine inspector for each district, who is appointed
by the Governor of the Commonwealth upon the recommendation of a board of examiners composed of three
reputable coal miners and two reputable mining engineers,
all to be selected by judges of the county courts, and the
inspector thus appointed must be a citizen of Pqnnsylvania, more than thirty years of age, having a knowledge
of the different systems of working coal mines and at
least five years practical experience in anthracite coal
mines of Pennsylvania, including experience in mines
where noxious and explosive gases are evolved. Each
inspector is to reside in the district for which he is appointed, and is to give his whole time and attention to
the duties of his office. He is to examine a11 the collieries
in his district as often as may be required, see that every
necessary precaution is taken to secure the safety of the
workmen and that the provisions of the act are observed
and obeyed, and is to keep the maps and plans of the
mines and the records thereof with all the papers relating
thereto. The act contains a multitude of provisions looking to the safety of the men employed in and about the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

mines, and deals apparently with every branch of the
work and every source of danger.
That the business of mining coal is attended with dangers that render it the proper subject of regulation by the
States in the exercise of the police power is entirely settled.
Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366, 393; St. Louis Consolidated
Coal Co. v. Illinois, 185 U. S. 203, 207; Barrettv. Indiana,
229 U. S. 26, 29.
Legislation requiring the owners of adjoining coal properties to cause boundary pillars of coal to be left of sufficient width to safeguard the employds of either mine in
case the other should be abandoned and allowed to fill
with water cannot be deemed an unreasonable exercise of
the power. In effect it requires a comparatively small
portion of the valuable contents of the vein to be left in
place, so long as may be required for the safety of the
men employed in mining upon either property.
All of this is very frankly admitted by plaintiff in error,
and the criticism upon § 10 of the act is confined to the
single ground that the method of fixing the width of the
barrier pillar is so crude, uncertain, and unjust as to constitute a taking of property without due process of law.
So far as the record discloses, this particular objection
was not brought to the attention of the state courts as a
ground for holding the section in question to be unconstitutional. The very general objection raised by plaintiff
in error in its answer has been stated. The Court of Common Pleas in its opinion, not treating the mode of defining
the pillar as having any bearing upon the constitutional
question but dealing with it as a matter of interpretation,
said:
"If the constitutionality of this provision be conceded
for the purpose of discussion, and if the question of the
necessity for any barrier pillar at all between these properties may be regarded as an open one, the decision of
that question would seem to be committed by the statute

PLYMOUTH COAL CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.
232 U. S.

541

Opinion of the Court.

to the tribunal of experts thereby constituted, viz., the
mine inspector and the engineers of the owners of the adjoining coal properties. The purpose of the enactment is to
secure the safety of the workmen in the mines. The law
declares that 'it shall be obligatory' on the mine owners
to leave such a barrier pillar as the tribunal of mine experts
referred to shall determine to be sufficient for that purpose. It is for them to fix its width. Until they say that
none at all is needed for the safety of the men, the obligation imposed by the statute remains. . . . If, therefore, we may apply the maxim that the law does not require a vain thing, there is room for the construction that,
in vesting in the inspector and engineers the power to
determine how wide the barrier pillar should be to secure
safety, the intent of the law-making power was to also
empower them to say, if such be the fact, that the safety
of the men does not require a barrier pillar of any width
at all. But, be that as it may, it is evident that the act
does not warrant a mine owner in refusing to permit his
engineer to participate in determining the question of the
width of, or the need for, a barrier pillar simply because
he, the mine owner, does not consider one necessary. In
our opinion, the law requires such a pillar to be left, unless the inspector and engineers, after due examination
of the premises and consideration of the subject, determine that none is needed to secure the safety of the men
employed in either mine in case the other should be
abandoned and allowed to fill with water." 232 Pa. St.
143.
The same view was repeated in the "Conclusions of
Law" at the close of the opinion, and evidently afforded
the reason for inserting in the final decree a clause reserving to defendant the right to apply for a dissolution
or modification of the injunction after action by the statutory tribunal. The Supreme Court affirmed the decree.
on the opinion of the Court of Common Pleas,

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

In a later case, Curran v. Delano, 235 Pa. St. 478, 485, it

was held, in effect, that the tribunal created by the statute
was to be composed of "two mining engineers and a mine
inspector," or, as was said, "three mine experts"; that its
jurisdiction was exclusive; and that even the act of one
property owner in removing the coal from its mine up ta.
the boundary line, could not deprive the statutory tribunal
of its authority or confer jurisdiction upon a court of
equity to determine the width of the boundary barrier.
And see Sterrick Creek Coal Co. v. Dolph Coal Co., 11 Lack.
Jur. 219.
Although the act has been upon the statute book for
over twenty years, the cases just cited are, it seems, the
only ones wherein the state courts have placed an authoritative construction upon the pertinent section.
The objections of plaintiff in error to the method of
fixing the width of the barrier pillar are based upon the
supposed uncertainty and want of uniformity in the
membership of the statutory tribunal, and upon the fact
that the statute does not expressly provide for notice to
the parties interested, that the procedure is not prescribed,
and that there is no right of appeal.
The Legislature has not defined with precision the
width of the pillar, and it is very properly admitted that
in the nature of things this would have been impossible,
because the width necessary in each case must be determined with reference to the situation of the particular
property. From this it necessarily results that it was
competent for the Legislature to lay down a general rule,
and then establish an administrative tribunal with authority to fix the precise width or thickness of pillar that
will suit the necessities of the particular situation, and
constitute a compliance with the general rule. United
States v. Grimaud, 220 U. S. 506, 517-522. Administrative bodies with authority not essentially different are a
recognized governmental institution. Commissions for

PLYMOUTH COAL CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.
232 U. S.

543

Opinion of the Court.

the regulation of public service corporations are a familiar
instance. Interstate Com. Commission v. Railway Co., 167
U. S. 479, 495. And it has become entirely settled that
powers and discretion of this character may be delegated
to administrative bodies, or even to a single individual.
In re Kollock, 165 U. S. 526, 536; Wilson v. Eureka City,
173 U. S. 32; Gundling v. Chicago, 177 U. S. 183, 186;
Fischer v. St. Louis, 194 U. S. 361, 371, 372; Jacobson v.
Massachusetts, 197 U. S. 11, 25; Lieberman v. Van De
Carr, 199 U. S. 552, 560, 562.
But it is insisted that under the language of the act before us the tribunal lacks uniformity and there is uncertainty respecting the manner of its constitution. It is
said that on one side of the property line there might be
but a single owner, while on the other side there might be
several owners, and the engineers representing the latter
might outnumber and combine against the representative
of the single owner and compel him to leave a barrier
pillar of an unreasonable width. This objection is for
present purposes sufficiently disposed of by the decisions
of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania which establish
that the tribunal is composed of three, namely, the inspector and two engineers. We see no difficulty in working this out in practice. The owner on each side has a
single engineer in the make-up of the body; and if there
be a subdivision of the property on one side of the line
there would no doubt be separate findings with respect to
the frontage of each subdivision.
It is objected that the act presupposes a condition which
does not always exist, viz., that the owners of coal properties have engineers in their employ; whereas it is insisted
that there are many coal owners who employ no engineer,
especially among the lessors of coal property. But it cannot be seriously doubted, the business under regulation
being so dangerous, that it is within the power of the
State to declare that coal mining shall not be conducted

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

without the employment of an engineer; and we deem it
to be within the competency of the law-making power to
require, also, that notice of such a proceeding be given to
the lessee actually in charge of the mining operations,
leaving the lessor's interiest to be represented by him. It
is the lessee whose conduct is to be controlled. The lessor's
interest is not so directly involved, and for the purpose in
hand is not opposed to that of the lessee. It is not a
judicial but a quasi legislative proceeding. And if the
lessor desires to participate, it is not to be supposed that
he would have difficulty in obtaining a hearing.
A requirement of reasonable notice to the lessee seems
to be implied in the language of the section. There is to
be a "determination" by a tribunal of which the lessee's
representative is a member. Assuming, as we do, that for
constitutional reasons there must be a fair though summary hearing, it requires no very clear expression to
justify such a construction of the section as will render
notice obligatory. Certainly this court ought not to adopt
a contrary construction in the absence of something in the
state decisions to require it.
Respecting this and some of the other objections, it
should be said that the difficulties suggested are hypothetical rather than practical. Plaintiff in error had actual
notice in fact, and made no objection on the score of lack
of sufficient notice. Its lessor is not objecting. Plaintiff
in error presumably has an engineer competent to represent it, or could readily employ one. It refused to enter
the conference for other reasons, and the refusal can be
justified in law only upon the theory that the section is
wholly void.
We may once more repeat, what has been so often said,
that one who would strike down a state statute as violative
of the Federal Constitution must show that he is within
the class with respect to whom the act is unconstitutional,
and must show that the alleged unconstitutional feature

PLYMOUTH COAL CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.
232 U. S.

545

Opinion of the Court.

injures him, and so operates as to deprive him of rights
protected by the Federal Constitution. Southern Railway
Co. v. King, 217 U. S. 524, 534; Standard Stock Food Co.
v. Wright, 225 U. S. 540, 550; Rosenthal v. New York, 226
U. S. 260, 271.
It is to be presumed, until the contrary appears, that
the administrative body would have acted with reasonable
regard to the property rights of plaintiff in error; and certainly if there had been any arbitrary exercise of its powers
its determination would have been subject to judicial review. Lieberman v. Van De Carr, 199 U. S. 552, 562;
Bradley v. Richmond, 227 U. S. 477, 483.
Indeed, the statute seems to contemplate some judicial
control, for it prescribes no penalty for a violation of the
findings of the engineers and inspector, nor any mode of
enforcing their determination except by a suit for injunction under Art. XV of the act. In such a suit a party
deeming himself aggrieved because of arbitrary action
by the statutory tribunal may presumably have his opportunity to be heard with respect to this as well as other
fundamental defences.
It is objected that the act does not state whether the
tribunal.must be unanimous in order to reach a determination, or what shall be done in case of disagreement; and
it is argued that in case of such disagreement the solution
of the question to be determined might be delayed for
such a length of time as to embarrass the mining operations and throw the workmen out of employment. Here,
again, plaintiff in error seems to be unnecessarily borrowing trouble, but we will deal with the point on its merits.
This particular objection does not seem to be met by the
decision of the state court, either in the present case, or in
that of Curran v. Delano, 235 Pa. St. 478. They seem to
hold simply that the tribunal is made up of three, without
deciding what function is to be performed by the respective
members, nor how a conclusion is to be reached. That
voL. ccxxxni-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

being so, it is not incumbent upon us to construe the
statute in this regard; but rather, to say merely whether
the section admits of any reasonable construction that
will sustain its constitutionality.
For in cases other than such as arise under the contract
clause of the Constitution, it is the appropriate function of
the court of last resort of a State to determine the meaning of the local statutes. And in exercising the jurisdiction conferred by § 237, Judicial Code, it is proper for this
court rather to wait until the state court has adopted a
construction of the statute under attack than to assume
in advance that a construction will be adopted such as
to render the law obnoxious to the Federal Constitution.
Bachtel v. Wilson, 204 U. S. 36, 40; Adams v. Russell, 229
U. S. 353, 360.
And, even aside from the consideration just adverted
to, it is a general and fundamental rule that if a statute
be reasonably susceptible of two interpretations, one of
which would render it unconstitutional and the other
valid, it is the duty of the courts to adopt that construction which will uphold its validity; there being a strong
presumption that the law-making body has intended to
act within, and not in excess of, its constitutional authority. Sinking-Fund Cases, 99 U. S. 700, 718; Mugler v.
Kansas, 123 U. S. 623, 661; Knights Templars' Indemnity
Co. v. Jarman, 187 U. S. 197, 205; United States v. Delaware & Hudson Co., 213 U. S. 366, 407.
Approaching the subject from this point of view, we
observe first the language of the section-"such width
of pillar to be determined by the engineers of the adjoining property owners together with the inspector of the
district in which the mine is situated." Attention has
already been called to the qualifications of the inspector,
and the safeguards surrounding the mode of his appointment. The statute confers upon him most important
powers, and gives him access to complete information

PLYMOUTH COAL CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.
232 U. S.

547

Opinion of the Court.

respecting the problems that come before him. There
is provision, also, for his removal if neglectful or incompetent, or if guilty of malfeasance in office.
In the clause in question, we think it is quite reasonable
to interpret the words "together with the inspector of
the district" as meaning that the inspector shall be of the
quorum-shall participate in any determination that is
made. But the matter is "to be determined by the engineers . . . together with the inspector."
The
phrase of course admits of the interpretation that if the
engineers agree, the added approval of the inspector
shall end the matter. We think it not an unreasonable
construction that if the engineers disagree they shall
submit their differences to the inspector, and that a determination agreed to by one of them in conjunction
with the inspector shall fulfill the requirements of the act.
It must be remembered that this tribunal is to settle, not a
private property right, but a matter affecting the public
safety; hence, in the absence of clear language to the contrary, the section is open to the construction that, as in
other public matters, a majority of the referees or arbitrators
may act. Omaha v. Omaha Water Co., 218 U.S. 180, 192.
It is further objected that the statute provides for no
appeal from the determination of the tribunal. But in
such cases the right of appeal on other than constitutional
grounds may be conferred or withheld, at the discretion
of the Legislature. As already pointed out, an appeal
on fundamental grounds in this instance seems to inhere
in the very practice prescribed by the statute for the enforcement of the determination of the statutory tribunal.
Were this not expressed in the act, it would none the less
be implied, at least so far as pertains to any violation of
rights guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment. Yick
Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356, 370; Lieberman v. Van De
Carr, 199 U. S. 552, 562.
Judgment affirmed.

