OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

232 U. S.

tember 1, 1910, and to the levy of such tax. As for the
reasons stated in the Goelet Case, such question was answered in the negative, it follows that a like reply must be
made here and- therefore there is no need of replying to
any of the other questions. In deciding the previous
case between the same parties, we made a reservation
concerning the power of the court below to deal with
the former case in the future, because of the fact that the
findings in this case are absolutely' in conflict with the
state of things exhibited in the previous Bennett Case.
Our order will bf,, second question answered in the negative and the other questions not answered.
And it will be so certified.
RAINEY v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES-FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

UNITED STATES v. RAINEY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE *CIRCUIT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

RAINEY v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

UNITED STATES v. RAINEY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
Nos. 74, 627, 73, 628.

Argued January 6, 7, 1914.-Decided February 24, 1914.

Billings v. United States, ante, p. 261, followed to the effect that under
§ 37 of the Tariff Act of 1909, in imposing a tax on the use of foreignbuilt yachts there is authority to bring an action in personam against
the owner for the recovery; that the tax became due on the first day

RAINEY v. UNITED STATES.
232 U. S.

Statement of the Case,

of September next following the passage of the act; that the six
months' clause applied only to the charterer and not to the owner of
such a yacht; and that the statute does not violate the due process
clause of the Fifth Amendment.
The second paragraph of § 37 of the Tariff. Act of 1909 giving the owner
of a foreign-built yacht an option to pay an ad valorem of 35 per cent.
in lieu of the annual tonnage tax imposed on the use of such yacht
by the first paragraph of the section, is separable from the first paragraph and its validity is not involved in an action to recover the
tonnage tax from the owner of a foreign-built yacht who has not
availed of the option.
Quwre, whether one not the subject of the other contracting power to
a treaty with the United States can invoke the protection of that
treaty in regard to property rights.
When a treaty is inconsistent with a subsequent act of Congress the
latter will prevail.
The Constitution does not declare that the law established by a treaty
shall never be altered or repealed by Congress; and while good faith
may cause Congress to refrain from making any change in such law,
if it does so its enactment becomes the law.
Although the other contracting power to a treaty may have ground for
complaint if Congress passes a law changing the law established by
the treaty, every person is still bound to obey the latest law passed.
No person acquires any vested right to the continued operation of a
treaty.
Even if there is judicial power to inquire whether a provision in a duly
promulgated act of Congress raising revenue originated in the
House of Representatives in accordance with Art. I, § 7 of the Constitution, it is sufficient if it appears that it was an amendment in
the Senate to an act that originated in the House; and, after the act
has been enrolled and duly authenticated, the court will not inquire
whether the amendment was or was not outside the purposes of the
original bill.
Where on direct appeal from the Circuit Court by one party based on
constitutional questions the whole case can be'disposed of, the questions certified by the Circuit Court of Appeals on an appeal taken
by the other party need not be answered, and the judgment of the
Circuit Court can be modified to the extent necessary and affirmed.
190 Fed. Rep. 359, modified and affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the construction and constitutionality of § 37 of the Tariff Act of 4909 imposing

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Rainey.

232 U. S.

a tax on the use of foreign-built yachts and the liability
of the owner for such tax, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. C. Andrade, Jr., for Rainey:
The act on its face shows that it was intended to operate prospectively; and therefore the tax is not payable
until September 1, 1910.
The act does not levy a tax, but deprives defendant
of his property without due process of law. The 35%
duty is a direct tax, and void because not apportioned.
The seven dollar per ton annual tax on the use of the
yacht is an excise or indirect tax, and' void for want of
uniformity.
Defendant's use of the yacht prior to August 5, 1909,
tax free, was property. In order to make the tax fall
due September 1, 1909, it is necessary to destroy such taxfree use of the yacht prior to August 5, 1909, which is a
deprivation of property without due process of law.
A recovery in this action would destroy rights vested
in the defendant under the British treaty of 1815, and
would deprive defendant of his property without due
process of law; and further Congress did not intend to
annul the treaty of 1815.
The act does not authorize any action in personam
against the owner or managing owner.
The yacht tax is void, as it is a bill for raising revenue,
and it originated in the Senate and not in the House of
Representatives.
In support of these contentions, see act of June 5, 1794,
§ 3; American v. Worthington, 141 U. S. 468; Benziger v.
United States, 192 U. S. 38; British Treaties of July 3,
1815, October 20, 1818, August 6, 1827; Chew Heong v.
United States, 112 U. S. 536; Cong. Rec., 61st. Cong.,
pp. 1573, 4275; Cooley, Const. Lim., p. 528; Harvey v.
Tyler, 2 Wall. 328; Hylton v. United States, 3 Dall. 171;
Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41; Lewis v. Penna. R. R,

RAINEY v. UNITED STATES.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Co., 220 Pa. St. 317; McEwen v. Den, 24 How. 242;
Murray v. Gibson, 15 How. 421; Pollock v. Farmers' Loan
& Trust Co., 158 U. S. 601; Re Pennsylvania Telephone
Co., 2 Chest. Co. Rep. (Pa.) 129, 131; Rev. Stat., §§ 4131,
4132; 'Sohn v. Waterson, 17 Wall. 596; State v. Smith,
28 N. W. Rep. 241; Story on Const., 4th ed., p. 622; The
Miranda, 47 Fed. Rep. 815, aff'd, "51 Fed. Rep. 523;
Thomas v. United States, 192 U. S. 363, 370; Twenty per
Cent Cases, 20 Wall. 179; United States v. Heath, 3 Cranch,
399; United States v. Reese, 5 Dillon (Kans.), 405; United
States v. Wigglesworth, 2 Story (Mass.), 369; Warren v.
Crosby, 34 Pac. Rep. 661.
Mr. Assistant Attorney GeneralAdkins, with whom Mr.
Karl W. Kirchwey was on the brief, for the United States. I
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of
the court.
The first two of the foregoing cases relate to a tax becoming due on the first of September, 1909, and the other
two to a tax becoming due on the first of September, 1910,
the taxes in all cases having been levied pursuant to § 37 of
the Tariff Act of 1909 on the British built yacht Cassandra
owned by the plaintiff in error. In these eases, as in those
arising under the same act, which we have just decided, the
certificates of the Circuit Court of Appeals axe here because
of writs of error from that court prosecuted by the United
States for the purpose of reviewing the action of the trial
court in rejecting a demand for interest and the two other
cases are here on direct writ of error to the court below,
to review its action in upholding the tax. In both the
cases broughi directly here, the pleadings of the Government asserted the citizenship of the defendant, the use of
the yacht during the taxing period and the other statutory
I For abstract of argument, see p. 269, ante.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

essentials to fix liability. The answers not traversing
citizenship, ownership or use, set' up the same defences

as were urged in the cases we have just decided, somewhat however reiterated and changed in form of statement, and other defences not made in the previous cases.
In the first direct case, judgment was rendered in favor
of the Government for the tax by submission on bill and
answer. In the second a like judgment was rendered, the
case having been submitted by stipulation to the court
without a jury, and in that case the finding of fact made
by the court as to the use of the yacht is as follows: "During the period from the said twenty-fifth day of June,
1908, the date when the defendant purchased the said
yacht, to the first day of September, 1910, the yacht was
used by the defendant both in the waters of the United
States and in the waters of foreign countries, as well as
on the high seas, and in the year immediately preceding
the first day of September, 1910, the said yacht was used
by the defendant continuously in the waters of the United
States, except for the period from June 20, 1910, to July 30,
1910, when she was used by the defendant on a cruise to
the Gulf of St. Lawrence."
Separate assignments of error were made in the two
cases which axe here on direct review and are referred to
and discussed in the arguments at bar. They are all,
in both cases, however, embraced in the ten separate
propositions stated in the argument, and both cases will
therefore be disposed of by briefly considering and deciding them. In doing so we shall bring the several assignments under common headings for the purpose of avoiding
repetition. First, that the court erred in holding there
was authority to bring an action in personam against the
owner for the recc very of the tax. This is disposed of
by the reasoning adopted in the Billings Case in passing
on the question of liability for interest. Second, that
error was committed in holding the first installment of

RAINEY v. UNITED STATES.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the tax was due in September 1909, and in deciding that
the six months clause, under the section in question "applied only to the charterer and did not apply to the owner
of a foreign-built yacht." Third, that errorwas committed
in deciding that the tax did not violate the due process
clause of the Fifth Amendment and wgs not in conflict
with the uniformity clause of Art. I, § 8 of the Constitution. These grounds also are disposed of by the opinion
in the Billings Case. Fourth, that error was committed
in not deciding that § 37 of the act of 1909 "in so far as
it lays a duty of 35 per cent. ad valorem is a direct tax
and void because not apportioned in contravention of
Art. I, § 2, and Art. I, § 9 of the Constitution of the United
States." This proposition is concerned with the second
paragraph of the statute in question which gives a right
to the owner of foreign-built yachts of commutation, as
follows:
"In lieu of the annual tax above prescribed the owner
of any foreign-built yacht, pleasure-boat or vessel above
described may pay a duty of thirty-five per centum ad
valorem thereon, and such yacht, pleasure-boat or vessel
shall thereupon be entitled to all the privileges and shall
be subject to all the requirements prescribed by sections
forty-two hundred and fourteen, forty-two hundred and
fifteen, forty-two hundred and seventeen, and forty-two
hundred and eighteen of the Revised Statutes and Acts
amendatory thereto in the same manner as .if said yacht
had been built in the United States, and shall be subject
to tonnage duty and light money only in the same manner
as if said yacht had been built in the United States."
We think the reasons given in the comprehensive opinion of the lower court in ruling adversely on this proposition are so conclusive that we adopt them and make them
our own. The court said:
"The owner is not required to pay this duty. He is
merely given the option to pay it. In its nature it would

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
I Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

seem to be a duty on imports and such duties are not held
to be direct taxes requiring apportionment. But it is
unnecessary to pass upon this question. These actions
are for the recovery of the annual tonnage tax and the
validity of the ad valorem tax is not involved. The provisions concerning that tax are separable from those concerning the annual tax. The one is not dependent upon
the other and there is no indication that Congress would
not have adopted the one without the other. Under such
conditions it is well settled that unconstitutional provisions may be separated from legal provisions and effect be
given to the latter."
Fifth, that error was committed in not holding that enforcement of the tax "would destroy rights vested in the
defendant under the British Treaty of July 3, 1815" and
would for such reason "deprive the defendant of his property without due process of law." The court below adequately disposed of this contention upon reasons which
we also approve and adopt.
The court said:
"This defendant does not claim to be a British subject,
and it is by no means clear that he is entitled to invoke the
protection of the treaty. But, however that may be, it is
well settled that when a treaty is inconsistent *ith a subsequent Act of Congress, the latter will prevail. Taylor
v. Morton, 2 Curtis, 454; and see Whitney v. Robertson,
124 U. S. 190; Head Money Cases, 112 U. S. 580; Cherokee
Tobacco Case, 11 Wall. 616; Ropes v. Clinch, 8 Blatchf. 304.
"Treaties are contracts between nations and by the
Constitution are made the law of the land. But the -Constitution does not declare that the law so established shall
never be altered or repealed by Congress. Good faith
toward the other contracting nation might require Congress to refrain from making any chafige, but if it does act,
its enactment becomes the controlling law in this country.
The other nation may have ground for complaint, but

RAINEY v. UNITED STATES.
232 U. S,

Opinion of the Court.

every person is bound to obey the law. And as a corollary
it follows that no person acquires any vested right to the
continued operation of a treaty."
Sixth, that error was committed in not deciding that
§ 37 of the act was not void "as it is a bill for raising
revenue, and it originated in the Senate and not in the
House of Representatives, in contravention of Article I,
section 7, of the Constitution of the United States." . Without intimating that there is judicial power after an act of
Congress has been duly promulgated to inquire in which
House it originated for the purpose of determining its
validity, and upon the assumption for the sake of the
argument that such power may be invoked, again we think
the court below disposed of the contention upon a ground
entirely satisfactory which we adopt and approve, the
court saying:
"I am also satisfied that the section inquestion is not
void as a bill for raising revenue originating in the Senate
and not in the House of Representatives. It appears that
the section was proposed by the Senate as an amendment
to a bill for raising revenue which originated in the House.
That is sufficient. Having become an enrolled and duly
authenticated Act of Congress, it is not for this Court to
determine whether the amendment was or was not outside
the purposes of the original bill."
Following the practice adopted in the cases previously
decided and treating, as we did in these cases, the United
States as here on a cross-writ of error complaining of the
refusal to allow interest, it follows that the questions asked
by the Circuit Court of Appeals covered by the certificates
need not be answered and that the judgments of the court
below in the cases on direct writ of error in so far as they
rejected the claim of interest will be modified to the extent
necessary to allow such claim and in other respects will be
affirmed. Therefore our order will be
Modified and affirmed.

