OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

204 U. S.

Morgan v. Railroad Co., 96 U. S. 716, 720, cited, among
other chses, by the appellant, has no application. The facts
are so wholly different in their nature as to present a' case
which --does not touch the principle decided herein. There
was conduct on the 'part of the appellant which was such as
to amount to fraud or misrepresentation, leading appellee
to believe the existence of a fact upon the existence of which
appellee acted. We find no cases in opposition to the result
we have arrived at.
The decree of the court below is

Affirmed.

MERCHANTS

HEAT AND LIGHT COMPANY v. J. B.
CLOW & SONS.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 118.

Argued January 15, 1907.-Decided January 28, 1907.

While a non-resident defendant corporation may not lose its right of objecting to the jurisdiction of the court on the ground of insufficient service
of process by pleading to the merits pursuant to order of the court after
objections overruled, it does waive its objections and submits to the
jurisdiction if it also sets up a counterclaim even though it be one arising
wholly out of the transaction sued upon by plaintiff and in the nature
of recoupment rather than set-off.
At common law, as the doctrine has been developed, a demand in recoupment is recognized as a cross demand as distinguished from a defense.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. W. H. H. Miller, with whom Mr. James W. Fesler,
Mr. C. C. Shirley and Mr. Samuel D. Miller were on the brief,
for plaintiff in error:
While Schott was buying material to be used in' the con-

MERCHANTS HEAT & L. CO. v. CLOW & SONS. 287
204 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

struction of defendant's i)lant, which was purely local, at
Indianapolis, and While he was using the credit of the coinpany in making such purchases, yet he was, in fact, an independent contractor, and as between him and the plaintiff
the company was his surety only.
The mere purchasing of materials or other work he is found
to have been doing in this matter in Chicago was not doing
business for defendant in Illinois, in the sense of the statute
and decisions, necessary to give jurisdiction.- What is meant
by that statute is that the foreign corporation is doing some
part of the business it was organized to carry on, some part
of the business which it has no right to do in a foreign State
except by the procuring a license so to do.
In order to authorize service upon an agent of a foreign
corporation found within the State, such agent must be there
doing business for his corporation. Goldey v. Morning News,
156 U. S. 518; Conley v. Mathieson Alkali Works, 190 U. S.
406; Lumberman Ins. Co. v. Meyor, 197 U. S. 407.
It is not enough that one be an officer of the company, or
an agent; but he must be an offiqer or agent engaged in the
business of the company in the State where the service is
sought to be made effective. The question then arises in
what kind of business of the company he must be engaged.
Not every transaction in the State in the way of business will
authorize service. The business done must be something in
the line of that for which the corporation was organized.
Central Grain Co. v. Board of Trade &c., 125 Fed. Rep. 463;
N. K. Fairbanks & Co. v. Cin. &c. Ry. Co., 54 Fed. Rep. 420;
Wall v. Chesapeake &c. R. R. Co., 95 Fed. Rep. 398; Fitzgerald
Co. v. Fitzgerald, 137 U. S. 98; St. Clair v. Cox, 106 U. S. 350;
New England Mut. Life Ins. Co. v. Woodworth, 111 U. S. 138;
St. Louis Wire Mill Co. v. Consolidated Barbed Wire Co., 32
Fed. Rep. 802; Good -Hope Co. v. Ry. Barbed Fencing Co.,
22 Fed. Rep. 635; United States v. Telephone Co., 29 Fed.
Rep. 37-41; Maxwell v. Atchison &c. R. R. Co., 34 Fed. Rep.
286; Weller V. Penna. R. R. Co., 113 Fed. Rep. 502,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

As to the contention that the plaintiff in error by pleading
a set-off in an amount greater than the defendant in error's
claim thereby waived all objections to the jurisdiction, where
a party once makes objection to the jurisdiction and reserves
a right thereunder, he does not waive an illegality in the
service if, after said motion is denied, 'he answers to the merits.
Set-off is certainly part of the -answer to the merits and is no
waiver. Central Grain Co. v. Board of Trade, 125 Fed. Rep.
463; Lowden v. American Co., 127 Fed. Rep. 1008.
Mr. Newton Wyeth, with whom Mr. Warren B. Wilson and
Mr. Walter L. Fisher were on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

THIs case comes up on the single question of the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, which was saved by bill of exceptions and stipulation, and which is certified to this court.
The defendant in error, the original plaintiff, and hereafter
called plaintiff, is an Illinois corporation; the plaintiff in error
is a purely local Indiana corporation, organized for the furnishing of heat, light and power in Indianapolis. The questions
are whether the service of the writ was good, Board of Trade
v. Hammond Elevator Co., 198 U. S. 424, 435, or, if-not,
whether the defendant submitted to the jurisdiction. The
material facts are these: The service was upon one Schott in
Chicago. By the laws of Illinois a foreign corporation may be
served with process by leaving a copy with its general agent,
or with any agent of the company. Schott had an entire
contract with the defendant by which he was to build and
equip the plant, assume general management of it, and operate
it for the company until fully completed, "approve contracts
therefor," certify bills, and have the heating plant ready for
service on December 1, 1902, and finally finished by July 1, 1903.
Schott was acting as general manager under this contract at
the date of service, March 23, 1903, and did any purchasing

MERCHANTS HEAT & L. CO. v. CLOW & SONS. 289
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

required for the company in Illinois. In the same capacity
he made the contract sued upon, which was for materials to
be used for equipping the plant. He made it in the city of
Chicago. After the suit was begun, a motion to quash the
return of service was made and overruled, and thereupon the
defendants, after excepting, appeared, as ordered, and pleaded
the general issue and also a recoupment or set-off of damages
under the same contract, and overcharges, in excess of the
amount ultimately found due to the plaintiff. Tlere was a
finding for the plaintiff of $9,082.21.
It is tacitly conceded that the provision as to service does
not apply unless the foreign corporation was doing business in
the State. If it was, then, under the decisions of this court,
it would be taken to have assented to the condition upon which
alone it lawfully could transact such business there. Old
Wayne Mutual Life Association v. McDonough, decided January 7, 1907, ante, p. 8. Whether the purchase of materials
for the construction or equipment of its plant, as a preliminary
to doing its regular and proper business, which necessarily
would be transacted elsewhere in the State of its incorporation,
is doing business, within the meaning of the Illinois statute,
was argued at length and presents a question upon which the
decisions of the lower courts seem not to have agreed. We
shall intimate no opinion either way, because it is not necessary
for the decision of the case in view of the submission to the
jurisdiction which the facts disclose.
We assume that the defendant lost no rights by pleading
to the merits, as required, after saving its rights. Harkness
v. Hyde, 98 U. S. 476, Southern Pacific Co. v. Denton, 146
U. S. 202. But by setting up its counterclaim the defendant
became a plaintiff' in its turn, invoked the jurisdiction of the
court in the same action and by invoking submitted to it.
It is true that the counterclaim seems to have arisen wholly
out of the same transaction that the plaintiff sued upon, and
so to have been in recoupment rather than in set-off proper.
But'een at common law, since the doctrine has been developed.
voOL. ccv-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

a demand in recoupment is recognized as a cross demand as
distinguished from a defense. Therefore, although there has
been a difference of opinion as to whether a defendant by
pleading it is concluded by the judgment from bringing a subsequent suit for the residue of his claim, a judgment in his
favor being impossible at common law, the authorities agree
that he is not concluded by the judgment if he does not plead
his cross demand, and that whether he shall do so or not is
left wholly to his choice. Davis v. Hedges, L. R. 6 Q. B. 687;
Mondel v. Steel, 8 M. & W. 858, 872; O'Connor v. Varney, 10
Gray, 231. This single fact shows that the defendant, if he
elects to sue upon his claim in the action against him, assumes
the position of an actor and must take the consequences. The
right to do so is of modern growth, and is merely a convenience
that saves bringing another suit, not a necessity of the defense.
If, as would seem and as was assumed by the form of pleading, the counterclaim was within the Illinois statute, Charnley
v. Sibley, 73 Fed. Rep. 980, 982, the case is still stronger.
For by that statute the defe'ndant may get a verdict and a
judgment in his favor if it appears that the plaintiff is indebted
to him for a balance when the two claims are set against each
other; and after the cross claim is set up the plaintiff is not
permitted to dismiss his suit ithout the consent of the defendant or leave of court granted for cause shown. Illinois
Rev. Stats., c. 110, §§ 30, 31; East St. Louis v. Thomas, 102
Illinois, 453, 458; Butler v. Cornell, 148 Illinois, 276, 279.
There is some difference in the decisions as to when a defendant becomes so far an actor as to submit to thejurisdiction, but we are aware of none as to the proposition that when
he does become an actor in a proper sense he submits. De
Lima v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 1, 174; Fisher v. Shropshire, 147
U. S. 133, 145; Farmerv. National Life Association, 138 N. Y.
265, 270. As we have said, there is no question at the present
day that, by an answer in recoupment, the defendant makes
himself an actor, and to the extent of his claim, a cross plaintiff
in the suit. See Kelly v. Garrett, 1 Gilm. (Ill.) 649, 652; Ellis

HAIRE v. RICE.
204 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

v. Cothram, 117 Illinois, 458, 461; Cox v. Jordan, 86 Illinois,
560, 565.
Judgment affirihed.
M111.JUSTICE
JUSTICE DAY

BREWER,

MR. JUSTICE

PECKHAM

and MR.

dissent.

MONTANA ex rel. HAIRE v. RICE, STATE TREASURER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE 'STATE OF MONTANA.
No. 252.

Argued January 7, 8, 1907.-Decided January 28, 1907.

Although a Federal right may not have been specially set up in the original
petition or earlier proceedings if it clearly and untmnistakably appears from
the opinion of the state court under review that a Federal question was
assumed by the highest court of the State to be in issue, and was actually
decided against the Federal claim, and such decision was essential to
the judgment rendered this court has jurisdiction to retixamine that
I
question on writ of error.
In granting lands for educational purposes to Montana by § 17 of the
Enabling Act of February 22, 1889, 25 Stat. 676, to be held, appropriated,
-etc., in such manner as the legislature of the State should provide, Congress intended to designate, and the act will be so construed, such legislature as should be established by the constitution to be adopted, and
which should act as a parliamentary body" in subordination to that constitution; and it did not give the management and disposal of such lands,
to the legislature or its members independently of the methods and limitations prescribed by the constitution of the State.
Whether a state statute relating to the disposition of such lands and their
proceeds is or is not repugnant to the state constitution is for the state
court to determine and its decision: is conclusive here.
Where the claim that the construction given to a state statute by the highest
court of the State impairs the obligation of a contract appears for the
first time in the petition for writ of error from this court, it comes too
late to give this court jurisdiction of that question even though another
Federal question has been properly raised and brought here by the same
writ of error.

By an act approved February 22, 1889, 25 Stat. 676, hereafter referred: to as the Enabling Act, the State of Montana

