OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

204 U. S.

the words in the bond, "together with all the mineral therein
contained," meant all the mineral below the surface.
The disposition of this question compels a reversal of the
judgment. It may also effectually dispose of all disputes
between the parties, an(l, therefore, it would be a mere waste
of time to attempt to consider other cquestions which have been
discussed with ability and ela)oration by counsel.
In view of this conclusion it is also apparent that the order
restraining defendant in error from removing ore from the disputed territory ought not to have been set aside.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed and the
case remanded to the Circuit Court with instructions to grant
a new trial. Further, the order restraininig defendant in error
from mining and removing any of the ore in dispute will be
reinstated and continued in force until the final disposition
of the case.
Judgment reversed and restraining order rein stated.

ERIE RAILROAD COMPANY v. ERIE AND WESTERN
TRANSPORTATION COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 134.

Argued December 14, 1906.-Decided January 14, 1907.

Admiralty courts, being, free to work out their own system and to finish
the adjustment of maritime rights, have jurisdiction of an action for
contribution for damages paid to third parties as the result of a collision
for which both vessels were in fault. The claim is of admiralty origin.
The division of- damages in admiralty extends to what one of the vessels
pays to the owners of cargo on the other vessel jointly in fault.
The right of division of danages to vessels when both are in fault and
the contingent claim to partial 'indemnity for payment of damage to
cargo are separable, and the decree of division in the original suit, the
pleadings in which do not set up such claim for indemnity, is not a bar
to a subsequent suit brouglit to enforce it.
142 Fed. Rep. 9, reversed.

ERIE R. R. CO. v. ERIE TRANSPORTATION CO. 221
204 U. S.
THE

Argument for Petitioner.

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Charles E. Kremer, with whom .Mr. IV. 0. Johnson was
on the brief, for lpctitioner:
The effect of the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals
is to deprive the owner of the New York of a clear right to
compel the Concmaiigh to share with it the cargo loss arising
out of a collision, which this court found and held to have
been due to the joint fault of both vessels.
That each of two vessels held jointly at fault should equally
bear the damage resulting from such negligence has been
frequently decided and is a rule of damages in admiralty
settled beyond all (Juestion. Schooner Catherine v. Dickinson,
17 How. 170; North Star, 106 U. S. 17; Manitoba, 122 U. S.
97; The Albert Dumois, 177 U. S. 240.
Nothing pleaded in this case in the way of limitation of
liability under the statutes takes away or limits this rule.
Prior to the decision of the District Court, when it entered
a decree on the first mandate in the original case, there was no
decided case, and no established practice, that required the
filing of a cross libel or petition praying for recoupment, setoff or contribution.
On the contrary in all of the following cases recoupment
was allowed without such pleadings. The Eleonora, 17 Blatchf.
88; Leonard v..Whitwell, 10 Ben. 638; The C. H. Foster, 1 Fed.
Rep. 733; Atlantic M. Ins. Co. v. Alexander, 10 Fed. Rep.
279; The Canima, 17 Fed. Rep. 271; The Hercules, 20 Fed.
Rep. 305; The Job T. Wilson, 84 Fed. Rep. 149; The Livingstone, 104 Fed. Rep. 918; Albert Dumois, 177 U. S. 240; The
Manitoba, 122 U. S. 97.
Recoupment is the right whereby mutual demands which
arise out of the saipe transaction may be adjusted in one
action. 25 Am. & Eng. Ency of Law, 547. It is of commonlaw origin and independent of the statutes of set-off.. 4 Minor's
Inst., 2d ed., 706; 1 Chitty, Pl. (16 Am. ed.), 595; 31 Am.
Rep. 775; 8 Yiner's Abr., Title Discount, 556. But it may be

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument fdr Respondent.

204 U. S.

Grand L. v. Knox, 20 Missouri,
433; 1 Chitty, Pl. (14 Ani. ed.), 568. It applies to common
law and equity; also admiralty. Snow v. Caruth, 1 Spyague,
324; Nichol.v v. Treinlett, 1 Sprague, 361.
Upon what is res adjudicata as applied to this action, see
Van Fleet on Former Adju(lications, ยง 256; Bulkley v. House,
21 L. It.A. 247; State Bank v. Bartlett, 114 Missouri, 276;
Kwl.Ish v. Mixer, 53 Ohio St. 207; Cottingham v. Earl of Shrewsbutry, .3 Hare, 27.
This is a nmiaritinme cause of action and therefore within the
The Mari.ska, 107 Fed.
Iit( li(tionll of the a(dmiralty court.
Rep. 9S9; The IIvd.'on, 15 FeI. Rep. 162; )upont v. Vance,
19 lhow. 162; 11'elinan v. Mor.e, 76 Fed. Rep1. 573; Ralli v.
Trootp, 157 U. S. 400; The Irrawaddy, 171 U.S. 187.
equity early transposed.

Mr. Harvey D. Goulder and Mr. F. S. Masten, with whom
Mr. S. H. Holding was on the brief, for respondent:
The libel fails to disclose any ground for the action, other.
than that the District Court, the Circuit Court of Appeals and
this court refused in the collision case to divide the cargo
damage equally between the parties at fault, although plaintiff prayed such action at different times in that cause. If
it be the law that they should have done this, the error is
not open to correction by independent action in the admiralty.
If petitioner had a definite fixed right under the established
law of the admiralty to claim from this defendant an equal
division of the damage, or to recoup up to the amount due
this defendant, an error was committed in the other case which
cannot now be corrected,. at least in the admiralty.
The right of contribution proper exists only where two or
more persons are jointly, or jointly and severally, liable to a
third for the same amount, and one or more are compelled
to pay more than a rightful share. It arises in the equity of
equality, dictating that a common obligation should be borne
equally by all obligated for its payment;- that one should not,

ERIE R. R. CO. v. ERIE TRANSPORTATION CO. 223
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

as to others equally obligated, be obligated to sustain niore
than his own share. The doctrine had its origin in equity.
Derig v. Winchelsea, 1 Cox, 318; 3 Pomeroy's Eq., ยง 1418;
Sheldon on Subrogation, ยง 169; B. & 0. R. R. v. lValker, 45
Ohio St. 577, 589. There is some doubt, under the decisions,
whether contribution will be enforced at all as to joint tortfeasors. Selz v. Unna, 6 Wall. 328; Chicago City v. Robbins,
2 Black, 418.
But assuming that the right rests in contribution and also
that it is immaterial that the element of equal obligation for
the damage on account of which it is claimed is wanting, still
petitioner has mistaken the forum. A proceeding in rem
can only be maintained on a maritime contract or tort giving
rise to a lien existing at the time the action is brought. If
no lien arose, or having arisen has been waived or lost, a proceeding in rem will not lie. The Sabine, 101 U. S. 384, 388;
The Rock Island Bridge, 6 Wall. 213, 215. It is not sufficient
to support a proceeding in rem that the cause be maritime.
The further essential element is the continuing existence of a
maritime lien. Notwithstanding an original liability may be
maritime, and payment may carry with it an implied or express
promise or obligation on the part of another to bear the whole
or a part of the -mount so paid, the new promise or obligation
is not maritime so as to be within the jurisdiction of admiralty.
Fox v. Patton, 22 Fed. Rep. 746; The Centurion, 1 Ware, 490;
S. C., Fed. Cas., 2554.
If the right in an independent proceeding (in a proper case)
lies in subrogation, then petitioner must fail in any jurisdiction. Sheldon on Subrogation, 2; Jackson County v. Boylston
Ins. Co., 139 Massachusetts, 508, 510.
MR.JUSTICE

HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a libel in admiralty brought by the petitioner as
successor in corporate identity to the Union Steamboat Company, to reco ver a part of a sum paid by it to the respondent

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

as the result of previous admiralty proceedings which came
before this court several times. The former proceedings were
begun by the respondent, as owner of the propeller Conemaugh
and bailee of her cargo, to recover for damages to both by a
collision between her and the propeller New York. After hearings below, 53 Fed. Rep, 553, 82 Fed. Rep. 819, 86 Fed. Rep.
814, it was decided by this court, on certiorari, that both
vessels were in fault, and that the representatives of the cargo
could recover their whole damages from the New York. The
New York, 175 U. S. 187. Thereupon the District Court
entered a decree dividing the damages S..stained by the steamers, requiring the New York to pay to the Conemaugh on that
account $13,083.33 and interest, and further required it to
pay all the damages to the cargo of the latter-the insurers
on cargo who had intervened receiving their share, and the
Conemaugh receiving the residue as trustee. The owners of
the New York then applied to this court for a mandamus directing the District Court to divide the damages to cargo.
This was denied on the ground that if the court below erred
the remedy was 'by appeal. Ex parte Union Steamboat Company, 178 U. S. 317. Upon that intimation an appeal was
taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit
and after a motion to dismiss had been denied, 104 Fed. Rep.
561, the decree was affirmed. 108 Fed. Rep. 102. On a
second certiorari that decree was affirmed by this court.
The Conemaugh, 189 U. S. 363. The New York paid the damages and brought this suit.
The ground of the last-mentioned decree was that the claim
of the New York was not open, and the Circuit Court of Appeals denied leave to amend the pleadings for the reason that
the petitioner would be left free to assert its claim in an independent proceeding. 108 Fed. Rep. 107. In the present
case the District Court followed this expression of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, and made a decree giving the petitioner
one-half of the damages paid by it on account of' cargo. The
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, however,

ERIE R. R. CO. v. ERIE TRANSPORTATION CO. 225
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

before which the present case came on appeal, held that the
whole matter was res judicata by the final decree in the former
cause, and ordered the libel dismissed. 142 Fed. Rep. 9.
Thereupon a third certiorari was granted by this court, and
the record is now before us. (
The respondent set up three defenses, below and here. It
argued that there was no jurisdiction in admiralty over the
claim in its present form, that the petitioner had no case upon
the merits, and that it was concluded by the former decree.
The Circuit Court of Appeals decided against the first two
points before sustaining the third. We shall take them up in
their order. The jurisdiction appears to us tolerably plain.
If it be assumed that the right to contribution is an incident
of the joint liability in admiralty, and is not res judicata, it
would be a mere historical anomaly if the admiralty courts
were not free to work out their own system and to finish the
adjustment of maritime rights and liabilities. Indeed we
imagine that this would not have been denied very strenuously
had the question been raised by proper pleadings in connection
with the original suit. But if the right is not barred by the
former decree, it would be still more anomalous to send the
parties to a different tribunal to secure that-right at this stage:
For the decree was correct as *far as it went, and, by the hypothesis, might stop where it did without impairing the claim
to contribution. That claim is of admiralty origin and must
be satisfied before complete justice is done. It cannot be
that because the admiralty has carried out a part of its theory
of justice it is prevented by that fact alone from carrying out
the rest. See The Mariska, 107 Fed. Rep. 989.
On the merits also we have no great difficulty. The rule of
the common law, even, that there is no contribution between
wrongdoers is subject to e:ception. Pollock, Torts, 7th ed.,
195, 196. Whatever its origin, the admiralty 'rule in this
country is well known to be the other way. The North Star,
106 U. S. 17; -The Sterling and The Equator, 106 U. S.647; Adm.
Rule, 59. Compare The Frankland L. R. Probate, [1901], 161.
VOL. CCIV-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

And it is established, as it logically follows, that the division
of damages extends to what one of the parties pays to the
owners of cargo on board the other. The Chattahoochee, 173
U. S. 540. The right to the division of the latter element
does not stand on subrogation but arises directly from the
tort. The liability of the New York under our practice for
all the damage to cargo was one of the consequences plainly
to be foreseen, and since the Conemaugh was answerable to
the New York as a partial cause of the tort, its responsibility
extended to all the manifest consequences for which, on the
general ground that 'they -were manifest, the New York could
be held. Therefore the contract relations between the Conemaugh and her cargo have nothing to do with the case. See
The Chattahoochee, 173 U. S. 540. More specifically, the lastnamed vessel's liability to the New York is not affected by
provisions in the Conemaugh's bills of lading giving her the
benefit of insurance and requiring notice of any claim for damage to be made in writing within thirty days, and suit to he
brought within three months.
It only remains then to consider whether the petitioner is,
concluded by the former decree. If the liability of the Conemaugh arises, as we have'said, out of the tort, then it is said
to follow that the New York either is attempting to split up
its cause of action or to recover in excess of a decree covering
the case; It is true that the New York was the defendant in
the former suit, but the damage to the New York was allowed
for in the division. If the allowance was by way of recoupment,
then it may be said that the New York, by asserting a counterclaim for its damages, bound itself to present its whole claim
to the same extent as if it had brought the suit; at least until
it had neutralized the claim made against it in the Conemaugh's
ownright. If the allowance was because division is the very
form and condition of any claim for damage to vessels in case
of mutual fault, The North Star, 106 U. S. 17; Stoomraart
'Maatschappy Nederland v. Peninsular & Oriental Steam Navigation Co., 7 App. Cas. 795, 801, 806, and the mutual rights

ERIE R. R. CO. v. ERIE TRANSPORTATION CO. 227
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

cancel each other pro tanto as they arise, just as in an account
current, as distinguished from set-off,, then it might be contended that the claim in respect of the payment of damage
to cargo is an item in the same account with the one for
damage to the ship, and that a decree as to one involves a
disposition of' the other, and makes the whole matter res
judicata. See The Manitoba, 122 U. S. 97, 111.
But whatever be the technical theory, the right of a defendant to a division of the damage to the vessels when both
are in fault, and its contingent claim to partial indemnity for
payment of damage to cargo, must be separable from the
necessity of the case. To illustrate. Suppose, in a cause of
collision, one vessel to be sued for damage to the other vessel
alone. It could not set up the possibility that the cargo
owners might sue, some time within six years, and suspend the
decree on the ground that otherwise the defendant might be
barred from demanding indemnity in case the cargo owners
should sue and succeed. If cargo owners should sue one or
the other vessel after a division of the damages to the vessels
themselves, it must be that the libellee would be free to require
the other to exonerate or indemnify it to the same extent as
if no such division had taken place. It would be impossible to
do justice otherwise. As to fhe English law see Stoomvaart
Maatschappy Nederland v. Peninsular& Oriental Steam Navigation Co., 7 App. Cas. 795, 806.
If we are. right, then this is a strong case for holding that
the petitioner is not barred. It stands adjudicated that its
pleadings did not open its present claim. They could not have
done so, because at that stage the petitioner not having paid,
it had no claim for indemnity, but only for exoneration. It
was not bound to adopt the procedure permitted to it by
Rule 59. It did ask leave to amend so as to protect its rights,
but was met by the argument of the respondent and the opinion
of the Circuit Court of Appeals that it could bring a new suit.
This court said the same thing in affirming the deciee against
the New Yok" "If, as between her and the Conemaugh,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

204 U. S.

she have a claim for recoupment, the way is open to recover
it." 189 U. S. 368. The same proposition was implied in
The Juniata,93 U. S. 337, 340. Every consideration leads us
to adhere to this statement in the circumstances of the case
at bar.
Decree of Circuit Court of Appeals reversed.
Decree of District Court affirmed.

CROWE v. TRICKEY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME

COURT OF THE TERRITORY

OF

ARIZONA.
No. 71.

Submitted October 31, 1906.-Decided January 21, 1907.

The statement of facts which the Supreme Court of a Territory is called
on to make is in the nature of a special verdict, and the jurisdiction of
this court is limited to the consideration of exceptions and to determining
whether the findings of fact support the judgment.
The statement of facts should present clearly and precisely the ultimate
facts, but an objection that it does not comply with the rule because it
is confused and gives unnecessary details will not be sustainedif a sufficient statement emerges therefrom.
Where the Supreme Court of a Territory proceeds on the bill of exceptions
before it as containing all the evidence in the case below, and the record
in this court shows that all the evidence was contained in the bill of
exceptions, that is sufficient, even though the bill of exceptions may
have failed to state that it contained all the evidence given in the case.
A broker is not entitled to commissions unless, he- actually completes the
sale by finding a purchaser ready and willing to complete the purchase
on the terms agreed on; his authority to sell on commission terminates
on the death of his principal and is not a power coupled with an interest;
and, in the absence of bad faith, he is not entitled to commissions on a
sale made by his principal's administrator, without any services rendered
by him, ever though negotiations conducted by him with the purchaser,
prior to owner's death, may have contributed to the accomplishment of
the sale.
71 Pac. Rep. 965, affirmed.

