CHICAGO, B. & Q. RY. CO. v. BABCOCK.
204 U. S. Argument for Appellant, Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Ry. Co.

CHICAGO, BURLINGTON & QUINCY RAILWAY COMPANY v. BABCOCK, TREASURER OF ADAMS COUNTY,
NEBRASKA.
UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v. FINK,
TREASURER OF DOUGLAS COUNTY, NEBRASKA.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
Nos. 215, 341.' Argued January 21, 22, 1907.-Decided February 25, 1907.

Railroad corporations attacked assessments made by a state assessing
board and sought to enjoin the collection of taxes based thereon beyond
a sum tendered, claiming that, induced by political clamor and fear, the
board had arbitrarily fixea excessive valuations and had included property beyond the jurisdiction of the State, thus depriving the corporations
of their property without due process. The bills charged political duress
and a consequent scheme of fraud. The board, after declaring that it had
taken into consideration the returns furnished by the corporations and
-their respective stocks, bonds, properties and earnings, fixed the total
valuations and average mileage value of property in the State and then
fixed a lower value for assessment purposes, which the corporations
claimed was arbitrary- and excessive, Members of the assessing. board
were called as witnesses and cross-examined as to the operation of their
minds in reaching the valuation. Held, that:
The charges of fraud and duress were not sustained.
In an independent proceeding attacking the judgment of an assessing board
it is.improper to cross-examine the members in an attempt to exhibit
confusion in their minds as to the method by which the result was reached.
In a suit of this nature this court will not consider complaints as to results
reached by a state board of assessors, except those based on fraud or the
clear adoption of a fundamentally wrong principle.
In this suit it does not appear that the present Union Pacific Railroad Company has any United States franchises which "vere taxed by the State of
Nebraska or improperly considered in estimating the assessment for taxation of the company's property in that State.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Charles J. Greene, with whom Mr. James E. Kelby
and Mr. Charles F. Manderson were on the brief, for appellant,
Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railway Company:
The proceeding is void because the Board acted arbitrarily

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellant, Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Ry. Co.

204 U. S.

and in disregard of the express provision of the statute. In
ascertaining the total valuation of the complainant's lines of railroad in the State, it failed to give any consideration to the
sworn statements, schedules and other information required by
the statute and without u.iihg any statutory or other recognized rule or method of obtaining -. uch valuation. In
* fixing and returning the assessed valuation per mile of complainant's lines of railroad in each county, the Board disre-garded the express provisions of the statute. Had the Board
regarded the. statute a difference of opinion would have been
impossible, because the discretionary powers vested in it
would have been exhausted in the act of fixing the value of
-the entire property. The average value per mile would have
been merely a matter of arithmetic :which not even the members of an assessing board could reasonably differ about.
The statutes defining its powers, jurisdiction and duties
were conceived and framed upon the idea that the mass of
things tangible and intangible which constitute a railroad
property are a unit and should be valued as a unit. State v.
Savage, 65 Nebraska, 714; State v. Back, 100 N. W. Rep. 952.
The action of the Board in computing the total valuation
of the property, upon the basis of the ascertained value of a.
mile, not only reversed the program dictatel by the legislature,
but it also made impossible the only intellectual process by
which consideration could be given to the returns upon which
the statute expressly declares the valuation should be based.
The proceedings of the state board operated to tax the complainant's property beyond, the jurisdiction of the State, in
violation of its rights under the Federal Constitution.
Had the Board, after finding the total value, deducted the
value of outside .property and applied the balance to the
total mileage and apportioned it, the 'result would have been an
average value of less than that which appellants tendered
taxes upon.
This is not a mere case of overvaluation, but is an assessment made upon unconstitutional principles., While the

CHICAGO, B. -& Q. RY. CO. v. BABCOCK
204 U. S.

Argument for Appellant, Union Pacific Ry. Co.

company as a matter of policy, made a tender of taxes based
upon a fair valuation, it was not bound to do so, for the Board
having acted without jurisdiction, the entire tax based upon
the assessment was illegal and void. Fargo v. Hart, 193 U. S.
502, 503. See. also Norwood v. Baker, 172 U. S. 269; Ogden v.
Armstrong, 168 U. S. 237; U. P. Ry. Co. v. Cheyenne, 113 U. S.
527; Pelton V. National Bank, 101 U. S. 143; Cummings v.
National Bank, 101 U. S. 153; Litchfield v. County of Webster,
101 U. S.. 781.
Mr. John N. Baldwin and Mr. Maxwell Evarts, with whom
Mr. Robert S. Lovett was on the brief, for appellant, Union
Pacific Railway Company:
The state board took into account, considered; and in effect
and in fact assessed property of the Union Pacific Railroad
Company beyond the jurisdiction of the State and committed
many gross errors in its calculations, and thereby imposed an
unconstitutional burden on the complainant and on commerce
among the States.
The rule to be followed in passing upon the validity of
assessments of this character has been announced by this court.,
Pittsburg &c. Ry. Co. v. Backus, 154 U. S.421.
The Board, in making the assessment complained of,. did
not exercise its free and fair judgment, and fix a fair cash
value on the property assessed, but, intimidated, influenced
and terrorized by great public clamor and tumult, fixed avalue thereon largely in excess of the fair cash value.
The state board, in considering the value of the physical
or tangible property of complainant as a factor to aid it in
fixing the value of the railroad's property in Nebraska, arbitrarily and fraudulently fixed the value of said tangible property at an amount far above its value as shown by the undisputed evidence before it,, this arbitrary action resulting
necessarily in great prejudice to complainant.
The members of the Board were incompetent to place a
valuation on complainant's property and committed many

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellant, Union Pacific Ry. Co.

204 U. S.

gross errors in their calculations and methods of arriving at
the assessment in question.
All property in the State of Nebraska other than railroad
property was valued for assessment at much less than its real
cash value, and all such other property, when compared
relatively with railroad property, was undervalued, and a
deliberate intent was shown on the part of the state board
to impose an unfair burden on complainant and other railroad
corporations. Said Board sitting as a Board of Equalization,
after the assessment of railroad property, being fully advised
of the undervaluation of property other than railroad property, and of the excessive valuation of railroad property as
compared to other property, failed and refused to give force
and effect.to the provision of the constitution of Nebraska
requiring uniformity of taxation of all property.
In respect to this matter of overvaluation of the property
of the complainant and the systematic and habitual undervaluation of all other property, this case comes directly within
the rules laid down in the following cases. Cummings v.
Bank, 101 U. S. 153; Poindexter V. Greenhow, 114 U. S. 270,
295; Taylor v. Company, 88 Fed. Rep. 350.
The state board, in fixing the value of complainant's property, estimated the value thereof by a process known as
capitalizing the net earnings, and in so doing erroneously
included in said net earnings the earnings from interstate
commerce and from the transportation of mail, troops and
munitions of war of the United States, thereby imposing an
unconstitutional burden on this complainant and on interstate
commerce.
Taxation is an element of cost in the transportation of
traffic, and a State may not, for its own benefit, impose a tax
on interstate commerce, -thereby not only obstructing the free
passage of commerce, but increasing the cost of transportation,
of Said commerce in proportion to the, burden thus imposed.
So far as the tax levied for the use of the State is concerned
this is not in effect a suit against the State, and this action will

CHICAGO, B. & Q. RY. CO. v. BABCOCK.
204 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

lie. Osborne v. U. S. Bank, 9 Wheat. 738; Board ol Liquidation v. McComb, 92 U. S. 531; Poindexter v. Greenhow, 114
U. S. 270; Allen v. Railway Co., 114 U. S. 311; Pennoyer v.
McConnaughy, 140 U. S. 1; Reagan v. Farmers Loan & Trust
Co., 154 U. S. 362; Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 518; Prout v.
Starr, 188 U. S. 537.
Mr. William T. Thompson, Attorney General of the State
of Nebraska, and Mr. Norris Brown, with whom Mr. M. F.
Stanley was on the brief, for appellee:
When the State Board of Equalization and Assessment
fixed the value of complainant's property in Nebraska, it
acted judicially and its judgment cannot be assailed collaterally except for fraud or want of jurisdiction.
Courts of equity are without power to control the discretion
vested in said Board by law as to the value of property for
taxation purposes. Lowenthal v. People, 192 Illinois, 222;
Keokuk Bridge Co. v. People, 186 Illinois, 267; Connecting
R* Co. v. People, 119 Illinois, 182; Ottawa'Glass'Co. v. McCaleb,
81 Illinois, 562; Jones v. Rushville Nat. Gas. Co., 135 Indiana,
595; Senour v. Matchett, 140 Indiana, 636; 1 High on Injunctions, §§ 485, 486, 490, 493; Haywood v. Buffalo, 14 N. Y. 534;
Burns v. Mayor, 2 Kansas, 454; McPike v. Pew, 48 Missouri,
525; Warden v. Supervisors, 14 Wisconsin, 618; Clark v. Ganz,
21 Minnesota, 387; City Council v. Sayre, 65 Alabama, 564;
Stanley v. Albany County, 121 U. S. 535; Collins v. Keokuk,.
118 Iowa, 30; 1 Cooley on Taxation, 3d ed. p. 784; State
Railroad Tax cases, 92 U. S. 575; Pittsburg R. Co. v. Backus,
154 U. S. 421; M1laish v. Arizona, 164 U. S. 599; Adams Exp.
Co. v. Ohio State Auditor, 165 U. S. 194; Western Union Tel.
Co. v. Taggart, 163 U. S. 1; Ogden City v. Armstrong, 168
U. S. 224; Henderson Bridge Co. v. Kentucky, 166 U. S. 150;
State v. Dodge, 20 Nebraska, 599; State ex rel Bee Pub. Co. v.
Savage, 65 Nebraska 714; Coulter v. Louisville & N. R. Co.,
196 U. S. 605.
The allegation in the bill of complaint charging fraud against

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellee.

204 U. S.

the State Board of Equalization and Assessment is not sustained by the evidence.
The methods authorized by the Nebraska law and followed
by the State Board of Equalization and Assessment are sanetioned by the courts of the country. State RailroadTax cases,
92 U. S. 575; Pittsburg R. Co. v. Backus, 154 U. S. 421; K. C.,
Ft. S. & M. R. Co. v. King, 57 C. C. A. 278; Traction Company
cases, 114 Fed. Rep. 557; Adams Exp. Co. vi Ohio State Auditor,
166 U. S. 185.
The evidence shows conclusively that the property of complainants was assessed below its true and full value' by the
state board.
Equity will not enjoin the collection of taxes on account of
the under assessment of other property by taxing officers, unless it appears that such undervaluation is the result of system, design, intention, habit, custom or agreement. Taylor v.
Louisville & N. R. Co., 88 Fed. Rep. 350; German Nat. Bank v.
Kimball, 103 U. S. 732; New York v. Barker, 179 U. S. 190;
Exchange Nat. Bank v. Miller, 19 Fed. Rep. 372; Coulter v.
Louisville & N. R. Co., 196 U. S. 605.
The evidence fails to show that the County Assessors and
County Boards of Equalization by intention, custom, system,
design or agreement undervalued property within their jurisdiction.
The evidence affirmatively shows that all property within
their jurisdictions was assessed by the local taxing officers in
good faith and at its full value.
The question of undervaluation of other property by the
local taxing officers was adjudicated by the State Board of
Equalization and Assessment, when, on the complaint of the
complainant and in its presence, the State Board of Equalization passed on the valuation of lands, live stock, and other
properties subject to the jurisdiction of local taxing officers.
Complainant is therefore bound and cannot attack such judgment of said Board collaterally. Coulter v. Louisville & N. R.
Co., 196 U. S. 605; Hacker v. Howe, 101 N. W. Rep. (Neb.) 255.

CHICAGO, B. & Q. RY. CO. v. BABCOCK.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Whenever the law vests in a special officer or tribunal the
duty and power to ascertain and determine a question of fact,
such decision amounts to more than a mere presumption that
the fact exists, and such decision cannot be overthrown in a collateral attack by evidence tending to show that the fact was
otherwise than was found and determined. PittsburgC. C. &
St. L. R. Co. v. Backus, 154 U. S. 434; W. U. T. Co. v. Taggart,
163 U. S. 1; Adams Exp. Co. v. Ohio State Auditor, 165 U. S. 229;
Coulter v., Louisville & N. R. Co., 196 U. S. 605.
The complainant in this case has not been discriminated
against or denied the equal protection of the laws within the
meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of
the United States by reason of the action of the State Board
of Equalization and Assessment in assessing its property in the
State of Nebraska, nor by reason of the action of the local taxing officers and local boards of equalization which assessed
property other than railroads within their jurisdiction. Coulter v. Louisville & N. R. Co., 196 U. S. 605; King v. Mullins,
171 U. S. 436; 111. & M. Nat. Bank v. Pennsylvania, 167 U. S.
464; FloridaC. & P. R. Co. v. Reynolds, 183 U. S. 476.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

These are bills to declare void assessments of taxes made by
the State Board of Equalization and Assessment for the year
1904, and to enjoin the collection of the same beyond certain
sums tendered. The bills allege that the Board, coerced by
political clamor and its fears, arbitrarily determined in advance
to add about nineteen million dollars to the assessment of
railroad property for the previous year, and then pretended
to fix the values of the several roads by calculation. They
allege that the assessments were fraudulent, and void for want
of jurisdiction, and justify these general allegations by more
specific statements. One is that other property in the State,
especially land, was valued at a lower rate than that of the
railroads. Another, of more importance, is to the effect that

OCTOBER 'TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

the Board adopted a valuation by stock and bonds and then
taxed the appellants upon the proportion of the value so reached
that their mileage within the State bore to their total mileage,
without deducting a large amount of personal property owned
outside the State, or specially valuable terminals, etc., east
of the Missouri River. The principle of this last objection
was sanctioned in Fargo v. Hart, 193 U. S. 490, under. the
commerce clause of the Constitution, Art. I, Section 8, but
later cases have decided that tangible property permanently
outside the jurisdiction is exempted from taxation by the
Fourteenth Amendment, Delaware, Lackawanna & Western
R. R.v. Pennsylvania, 198 U. S.341, Union Refrigerator Transit Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194, and the Fourteenth Amendment alone, somewhat inadequately referred to, is the foundation of these appeals. Demurrers to the bills were overruled,
mainly, if not wholly, on the ground of the eharges of duress
and fraud. Answers then were filed denying the material
allegations and after a hearing on evidence the bills were dismissed.
The dominant purport of the bills is to charge political
duress, so to speak, and a consequent, scheme of fraud, illustrated by the specific wrongs alleged, and in that way to make
out that the taxes were void. As the cases come from the
Circuit Court, other questions beside that under the Constitution are open, and, therefore, it is proper to state at the outset
that the foundation for the bills has failed. The suggestion
of political duress is adhered to in one of the printed briefs,
but is disposed of by the finding of the trial judge, which there
is no sufficient reason to disturb. The charge of fraud, even'
if adequately alleged, Missouri v. Dockery, .191 U. S. 165, 170,
was very slightly pressed at the argument, and toially fails
on the facts. Such charges are easily made and, it is to be
feared, often are made without appreciation of the responsibility incurred in making them. Before the decree could be
reversed it would be necessary to consider seriously whether
the constitutional question on which the appeals are based

CHICAGO, B. & Q. RY,. CO. v. BABCOCK.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

was not so pleaded as part of the alleged fraudulent scheme
that it ought not to be considered unless that scheme was n'iade
out. Eyre v., Potter, 15 How. 42, 56; French v.Shoemaker,
14 Wall. 314, 335; Hickson v. Lombard, L. R. 1 H. L. 324.
When we turn to the evidence there is elual ground for
criticism. The members of the Boardcwere called, including.
theGovernor of the State, and submitted to an elaborate crossexamination with regard to the operation of their minds ihn
valuing and taxing the roads.

This was 'wholly improper.

In this respect the case does not differ from. that of a jury or
an umpire, if we assume that the members of the Board were
not entitled to the possibly higher immunities of a judge.
Duke of Buccleuch v. Metropolitan Board of Works, L. R. 5
H. L. 418, 433. Jurymen cannot be called, even on a motion
for a new trial in the same case, to testify to the motives and
influences that led to their Verdict. .Mattox v. United States,
146 U. S. 140. So, as to arbitrators. Duke of Buccleuch v.
MetropolitanBoardof Works, L. R. 5 H. L. 418, 457, 462. Similar reasoning was applied to'a judge in Fayerweather v. Ritch,
195 U. S. 276, 306, 307. A multitude of cases will be found
collected in 4 Wigmore, Evidence, §§-2348, 2349. 'All the
often repeated reasons for the rule as to jurymen apply with
redoubled force to the attempt, by exhibiting on crosg-examination the confusion of the, members' minds, to attack
in another proceeding the judgment of a lay tribunal, which
is intended, so far as may be, to be final, notwithstanding
mistakes of fact or law. See Coulter v. Louisville &.Nashville
R. R. Co., 196 U. S. 599, 610; -Central Pacific R. R. Co. v.
California, 162 U. S. 91, 107, 108, 117; S. C., 105 California,
576, 594; State Railroad Tax cases, 92 U. S. 575; Cleveland,
Cincinnati,Chicago & St. L~uis Ry. Co. v. Backus, 133 Indiania,
513, 542. In Fargo v. Hart, 193 U. S. 490) 496, 497, there
was no serious dispute as to what was the principle adopted.
'Again, this Board necessarily kept and evidently was expected by the statutes to keep a record. That was the best
evidence, at least, of its decisions and acts. If the roads had
VOL. cciv-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

wished an express ruling by the Board upon the deductions
which they demanded, they could have asked for it and could
have asked to have the action of the Board or its refusal to act
noted in the record. It would be time enough to offer other
evidence, when such a request had been made and refused.
See Fargo v. Hart, 193 U. S. 490, 498; Cleveland, Cincinnati,
Chicago & St. Louis Ry. Co. v. Backus, 133 Indiana, 513, 542;
Havemeyer v. Board of Review, 202 Illinois, 446. However,
as the foregoing objections were not urged, and as the cases
were discussed upon all the testimony, we shall proceed to
consider them in the same way.
The facto that appear from any source are few. The Board
voted first, as a preliminary step toward ascertaining the
actual value of all property to be assessed, to make an estimate
of the tangible property of the railroads, to be taken-as one
of the factors in making up the total assessment of the roads.
Schedules' were prepared, and it is objected that the Board
added twenty-five per cent to certain items as furnished by
the companies. If this be true, and it is not admitted that
any figures were more than tentative, the addition seems to
have been made on personal judgment and on a theory that
the values given were the values the property was insured
for. If mistaken, a mistake does not affect the case. The
main point comes on the final assessment, to which we turn'
at once.
The Board expressed its result in another vote. "Having
given full and due consideration to the returns furnished
said Board by the several railroad companies, and having
taken into consideration the main track, side track, spur tracks,
warehouse tracks, roadbed, right of way and depot grounds,
and all water and fuel stations, buildings and superstructures
thereon, and all machinery, rolling stock, telegraph lines and
instruments connected therewi'th, all material on hand and
supplies, moneys, credits, franchises and all other property
of said railroad companies, and having taken into consideration the gross and net earnings of said roads, the total amount

CHICAGO, B. & Q. RY. CO. v. BABCOCK..
204 U. S.

595

Opinion of the Court.

expended in operation and maintenance, the dividends paid,
the capital stock of each system or road and the market value
thereof and the total amount of secured and Unsecured indebtedness [we] do hereby ascertain and fix for the purposes
of taxation the full actual value, the average value per mile,
and the assessable value per mile of the several roads as follows:" with a list.
The roads supplement the record by evidence that the
State Treasurer, a member of the Board, on the objection
being made to a paper said to exhibit the stock, bonds and
floating debt of the Union Pacific, that the stock and bonds
of other companies owned by the Union Pacific had not been
deducted, answered, "the Board has decided that it can not
make deductions for property' outside of the State." This,
answer was in the presence of the other members of the Board.
it is agreed that the paper referred to was prepared for the
use of the Board. It shows a column of figures marked
"Deductions for locally assessed," and amounting, when
added, to 1,152,230. Then, under the head "Earnings,"
are the figures 398,474,068, from which is subtracted 1,152,230,
giving 397,321,838, which is divided by 6,104, giving 65,092
as the quotient. This dividend is said to be shown by the
coincidence of figures to have been made Vp of the market
value of the stock of the Union Pacific, -its mortgage bonds
and other indebtedness, less the property locally assessed
in the State, but without the deduction to which we have
referred and to which the road alleges that it was entitled.
The divisor is the total number of miles of the road. If is
true that the valuation ultimately reached was $55,000 a
mile instead of $65,092, but this is said to, have been an arbitrary reduction, and did not reduce the amount sufficiently,
if we were to assume that this paper furnished the basis of
the tax.
But no such assumption can be made. The Board considered the paper no doubt, but so they considered a capitalization of what they understood to be the net earnings

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

in the State, and the value of the tangible property apart
from its outside connections. Exactly what weighed in each
mind, and even what elements they purported to consider
in their debates, is little more than a guess. There is testimony which cannot be neglected that, in this very matter
of valuing the road by stocks and bonds, etc., the Board, from
another table furnished by the company, valued it at over
$540,000,000, and did deduct from that sum the stocks and
bonds owned by the road, and valued by the Board at over
$140,000,000, prior to the subsequent reduction to $55,000
a mile. It is said that this valuation is absurd and due to
misunderstanding of the table. But we have nothing to do
with complaints of that nature, or with anything less than
fraud, or a clear adoption of a fundamentally wrong principle.
The Board, in its formal action properly before us, did vote
to request of the Union Pacific, among other things, "an
itemized statement of the several bonds and stocks owned by
said Company, for which they are legally entitled to receive
credit on offset, in estimating the value of said Company for
assessment." This recognizes the true principle, almost in
terms. Beyond a speculation from figures, and a few statements improperly elicited from one or two members of the
Board, there is nothing to contradict the inference from this
vote except the above alleged statement of the treasurer, met
by his and others' testimony that a proper deduction was made.
Evidently the Board believed that the figures furnished
by the roads were too favorable and were intended to keep
the taxes as low as they could be kept. Evidently also the
members or some of them used their own judgment and their
own knowledge, of which they could give no very good account
on cross-examination, but which they had a right to .use, if
honest, however inarticulate the premises. It would seem
from the testimony, as might have been expected, that the
valuations fixed were a compromise and were believed by
some members to be too low, as they seemed to one too high.
It is argued to us, on expert testimony, that they are too low.

CHICAGO, B. & Q. RY. CO.. v. BABCOCK.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The result of the evidence manifests the fruitlessness of inquiries, which, as we have said, should not have been gone
into at all. We have adverted more particularly to the
case of the Union Pacific, but that of the Chicago, Burlington
and Quincy Railroad stands on similar and no stronger ground,
and what we have said disposes of the main contention of
both. If the court below had found the other way it would
have been difficult to say that the finding was sustained by
competent evidence. There certainly is no sufficient reason
for disturbing the finding as it stands.
A point less pressed than the foregoing was that the other
property in the State was greatly undervalued and that thus
the rule of uniformity prescribed by the constitution of Nebraska had been violated. Upon this matter it is enough to
say that no scheme or agreement on the part of the county
assessors, who taxed the other property, was shown, or on
the part of the Board of Equalization and Assessment, and to
refer to Coulter v. Louisville & Nashville Railroad Co., 196
U. S. 599.
Again it was said that, inasmuch as the present Union
Pacific Company, a Utah corporation, acquired its road by
foreclosure of a mortgage from a preceding corporation chartered by the United States, it appeared from admissions in
testimony or followed from the Board's taxing the Nebraska
portion of the road as a going concern that it was taxing
United States franchises, contrary to the decision in California
v. Central Pacific R. R. Co., 127 U. S. 1. This also, although
stated, was not pressed. It does not appear that the present
Union Pacific has any United States franchises that were
taxed, and, if it has any that were considered in estimating
the value of the road, it does not appear that they were considered improperly under the later decisions of this court.
Central Pacific R. R. Co. v. California, 102 U. S. 91; People v.
Central Pacific R. R. Co., 105 California, 576, 590. See Adams
Express Co. v. Ohio State Auditor, 166 U. S. 185. And the
same thing may be said as to the interstate business of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

roads. Adams Express Co. v.'Ohio State Auditor, 165 U. S.
194; S. C., 166 U. S. 185. The Board had a right to tax
all the property in the State and to tax it at its value as an
organic portion of a larger whole. Western Union Telegraph
Co. v. Gottlieb, 190 U. S. 412.
Various arguments were addressed to us upon matters of
detail which would afford no ground for interference by the
court, and which we do not think it necessary to state at
length. Among them is the suggestion of arbitrariness at
different points, such as the distribution of the total value
set upon the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy system, among
the different roads making it up. But the action does not
appear to have been arbitrary except in the sense in which
many honest and sensible judgments are so. They express
an intuition of experience which outruns analysis and sums
up many unnamed and tangled impressions; impressions which
may lie beneath consciousness without losing their worth.
The Board was created for the purpose of using its judgment
and its knowledge. State Railroad Tax cases, 92 U. S. 575;
State v. Savage, 65 Nebraska, 714, 768, 769; In re Cruger,
84 N. Y. 619, 621; San Jos Gas Co. v. January,57 California,
614, 616. Within its jurisdiction, except, as we have said,
in the case of fraud or a clearly shown adoption of wrong
principles, it is the ultimate guardian of certain rights. The
State has confided those rights to its protection and has trusted
to its honor and capacity as it confides the protection of
other social relations to the courts of law. Somewhere there
must be an end. We are of opinion that whatever grounds
for uneasiness may be perceived nothing has been proved
so clearly and palpably as it should be proved, on the principle laid down in San Diego Land & Town Co. v.National
City, 174 U. S. 739, 754, in order to warrant these appeals
to the extraordinary jurisdiction of the Circuit Court.
Decrees affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE

PECKHAM

and MR.

JUSTICE MCKENNA

dissent.

