OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

204 U. S.

EAST CENTRAL EUREKA MINING COMPANY v. CENTRAL EUREKA MINING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 141.

Argued January 8, 9, 1907.-Decided January 21, 1907.

The requirement of parallelism of the end lines of a mining claim in § 2
of the act of May 10, 1872, 17 Stat. 91, Rev. Stat., par. 2320, does not
apply to a patent issued on an application made prior to the passage
of that act.
Where the construction by the land office of an act of Congress in regard
to mining claims agrees with the decisions of the Circuit Court and the
state courts, unless the meaning of the act is plainly the other way,
this consensus of opinion and practice must be accorded considerable
weight.
Section 3 of the act of May 10, 1872, is to be construed broadly in favor
of the right of a claimant who had located prior thereto to follow all veins
a'pexing within the surface of his claim in view of the provisions of §§ 12
and 16 that the act should not impair rights or interests acquired under
the existing laws.
In the construction and effect of a conveyance between private parties this
court follows the state court.
146 California, 147, affirmed.

TOE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Jackson H. Ralston, with whom Mr. Philip G. Galpin,
Mr. Frederick L. Siddons and Mr. William E. Richardson

were on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
Defendant in error acquired no" title under act of May,
1872, Rev. Stat. § 2320, because the end lines of patent were
not parallel. Iron Silver M. Co. v. Elgin Mining & S. Co.,
118 U. S. 196; Del Monte M. & M. Co. v. Last Chance M. &
M Co, 171 U. S. 66.
Atthe date of the passage of the act. of 1872 the defendant
:had acquired no existing right, under the act of 1866, to have
extralateral rights on a blaim with converging end lines.
Where an applicant for public land had entered his land

EAST CENT. E. M. CO. v. CENTRAL EUREKA CO. 267
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in the Land Office and paid his money and nothing remained
to complete his title but issue of a patent, the delay of the
Land Office or repeal of the law before patent issued could
not deprive him of his "existing right." But, until he had
made the payment of money" his right did not attach. The
settled rule is that until the legal title has passed, or the locator
has acquired by payment of money some vested right the
public lands are within the jurisdiction of the Land Department and Congress retains control. Diflenbach v. Hoch, 115
U. S. 592; Davis v. Wiebold, 139 U. S. 239.
No rights of a locator against the Government accrued to be
upheld as a vested right until the Government surveyor had
made the survey and the surveyor-general had approved it.
Before that time the power of the surveyor to make a survey
in this manner so as thereby to give extralateral rights had
been cut off and he was bound to survey under the act of 1872,
and according to its directions. He should have made the end
lines parallel. He could only survey as the act of 1872 required. His disobedient act conferred no rights to be upheld
after repeal of act of 1866. Cragin v. Powell, 128 U. S. 691.
The same principle applies to 'mine'al lands also.
So it was held in Del Monte M. & M. Co., 171 U. S. 70.
The same section of the Revised Statutes which limited the
effect of the patent to a conveyance of 300 feet on each side
of the ledge declared that the end lines'of the claim should
be parallel. The courts have decided that unless parallel,
the claim carried no extralateral rights. See also Larkin v.
Roberts, 54 Fed. Rep. 461; S. C., 154 U. S. 507.
Mr. S. S. Burdett, with whom Mr. Curtis H. Lindley and
Mr. Henry Eickhoff were on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the

ourt.

This is a writ of error to reverse a decree in favor of the
defendant in error, the original plaintiff and hereinafter called

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

the plaintiff, which was ordered by the Superior Court and
affirmed by the Supreme Court of California. 146 California,
147. The decree was made on a bill to quiet title, upon the
following facts, which appeared at the trial of the case. The
plaintiff is the owner of the "Summit Quartz Mine" in California. The apex of a vein runs through this mine between
and nearly parallel with the surface side lines. This vein dips
under the easterly side line and enters the adjoining land of
the defendants, known as the Toman ranch. The controversy concerns the portion of the vein under the defendants'
land. The main ground of defense is that the end lines of
the mine are not parallel but converge towards each other in
the direction of the ranch, and that the plaintiff's patent was
granted on N6o ember 25, 1873, when theact of May 10, 1872,
c. 152, 17 Stat. 91, Rev. Stats. §§ 2320, 2322, was in force.
Iron Silver Mining Co. v. Elgin Mining & Smelting Co., 118
U. S. 196; Del Monte Mining & Milling. Co. v. Last Chance
Mining &- Milling Co., 171 U. S. 55, 67. But the patent- was
issued upon an application made on February 7, 1871, based
upon two locations of March 20, 1863, and June 22,- 1865,
respectively. The question is whether the requirement of
parallelism in § 2 of the act of .1872, Rev. Stat. § 2320, applies
to such a case.
The patent of the mine recites proceedings in pursuance of
the acts of 1866, 1870 and 1872, and describes and grants the
premises by metes and bounds, and the exclusive right of
possession and enjoyment of the same and of 1,165Niu linear
feet ofthe vein throughout its entire depth, although it may
enter the land adjoining, with similar rights in other veins
having their apex within the surface bounds; the extralateral
or outside rights in the veins being confined, as by the act of
1872, § 3, o such portions as lie between vertical planes
drawn downward through the end lines of the survey at the
surface; and so continued in their own direction as to intersect
the exterior part of the veins. In short, the patent purports
to convey the rights claimed by the plaintiff in this suit, and

EAST CENT. E. M. CO. v. CENTRAL EUREKA CO. 269
204 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

also the additional rights that would have been gained by a
location and patent under the act of 1872 alone. The defendants derive -title from later patents issued under the laws of
the United States concerning the sale of agricultural land, and
admit that, if the plaintiff's patent conveyed what it purported
to convey, then, subject to a question to be mentioned later,
the plaintiff must prevail.
Before the act of 1872 it was not required that the end lines
should be parallel; 118 U. S. 208; and when, With some dissent,
it was decided that that requirement of that act made a condition to the right of a patentee to follow his vein outside of
the vertical planes drawn through his side lines, -the decision
was confined in terms to cases where the location was made
since the passage of the-act. 118 U. S. 208. That there is no
such condition when the patent was issued in pursuance of
proceedings under the earlier statutes has been decided, so
far as we know, when the question has arisen. See e. g.
Argonaut Mining Co. v. Kennedy Mining & Milling Co., 131
California, 15; Carson City Gold and Silver Mining Co. v.
North Star Mining Co., 83 Fed. Rep. 658, 669. The granting
of the patent indicates what we believe to be a fact, that the
construction of the act of 1872 adopted at the time by the land
office agreed with the decisions of the courts. Unless, therefore, the meaning of the act of 1872 is pretty plainly the other
way, this consensus of opinion and practice must be accorded
considerable weight.
Apart from the last mentioned considerations we are of
opjnion that the act of 1872 authorized the plaintiff's patent.
Under the former law the miner located the lode. Calhoun
Gold Mining Co. v. Ajax Gold Mining Co., 182 U: S. 499, 508.
When the act of 1872 substituted the location of a piece of
land by surface boundaries, it preserved the rights of locators
to all mining locations previously made in compliance with
law and local regulations, and provided that, they should
"have the exclusive right of possession and enjoyment of all
the surface included within the lines of their locations, and -of

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

all veins, lodes, and ledges throughout their entire depth,
the top or apex of which lies inside of such surface-lines extended downward vertically, although such veins, lodes,
or ledges may so far depart from a perpendicular in their
course downward as to extend outside the vertical side-lines
of said surface locations." Section 3. Rev. Stats. 2322. It is
argued that this refers only to possessory rights, and that when
a patent was applied for it was required to conform to the new
law; that under the old law the miner got but a single vein,
while the new law gave him all veins having their apex within
the surface, and that when he accepted this advantage he had
to comply with the conditions, as otherwise he would be given
a preference over later comers. It is said further that in the
present case no rights had been acquired. These arguments
do not command our assent, for reasons which we will state.
A broader construction of the passage quoted from § 3 is
favored by other provisions in the act. It provided that
the repeal of certain sections of the act of 1866 "shall not
affect existing rights. Applications for patents for mining
claims now pending may be prosecuted to a final decision in
the General Land Office; but in such cases when adverse rights
are not affected thereby, patents may issue in pursuance of
the provisions of this act." Section 9. So in § 12: "Nor
shall this act affect any right acquired under said act" (of
1866). And in § 16, "Provided that nothing in this act shall
be construed to impair, in any way, rights or interests in mining property acquired under existing laws." Whatever
ambiguity may be found in the first of these quotations, the
last is plain. The chance of a possible advantage to outstanding applicants does not seem to us to outweigh the injustice
of preventing them from getting what the law had promised
as the reward for the steps they had taken in accordance with
its invitation.
The provision that the act shall not impair existing rights
is, perhaps, some indication that it extends to inchoate rights
which constitutionally it might have impaired. At all events

EAST CENT. E. M. CO. v. CENTRAL EUREKA CO. 271
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

it should be taken in a liberal sense. There was no sufficient
reason why the United States should not be liberal and, as
we have said, it was just 'that it should be. We are of opinion
that in the present case rights had been acquired within the
meaning of the act. It is said that the survey of the mineral
patent was not approved or payment made to the United States
until after the passage of the act /of 1872. But the location
had been made and the proceedings under the act of 1866 so
far advanced as to exclude adverse claims. The locator
had done all that he could do, and we are satisfied that the
act of 1872 intended to treat parties that were in that position
as having rights that were to be preserved. If Congress were
unrestricted by the Constitution the word "rights" still would
be the natural word to express the relation of persons to this
kind of property where the facts required the officers of the
Government to take the steps necessary to' permit them to
acquire it and they were seeking to acquire it and had manifested their intent and desire by occupation, labor and expenlitures. Yet on that supposition there could be no technically legal right. We believe that Congress used the word
in a somewhat popular sense, as no doubt it would have used
it in the case supposed, without considering what injustice
might be within its constitutional power to commit. See
Clipper Mining Co. v. Eli Mining & Land Co., 194 U. S. 220;
Creede & Cripple Creek Mining & Milling Co. v. Uinta Tun.nel Mining & Transportation Co., 196 U. S. 337, 342.
The plaintiff is not responsible for the form of the patent.
It grants the rights that would have been granted under the
act of 1866, and the fact that it also purports to grant all
that would have been acquired by a location under the act
of 1872 does not import an election by the grantee to abandon
the former. We do not mean to disparage the additional
grant, but, as was pointed out by the California court, the
question before us does not touch that point.
The defendants rely, for a further defense, upon a quitclaim
deed, from the plaintiff, of the land under which lies the por-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
204 U. S.

Syllabus.

tion of the vein in dispute. The land was described as lying
east of the mining ground known as the Summit Quartz Mine.
Assuming, in accordance with its decision, that the part of
the vein under this land was embraced in the patent to the
plaintiff and severed from the surface, the California court held
that this instrument did not purport to convey the portion
of the vein beneath the surface and within the converging
lines, produced, of the plaintiff's location. The court also
adverted to the fact, which sufficiently appeared, that the
real object of the deed was to free the defendants' title from a
previous contract on their part to convey the land, and simply
to replace the grantees in their former position; and it sustained a finding of the court below. The construction and
effect of a conveyance between private parties is a matter as
to which we follow the court of the State. Brine v. Hartford
Fire Ins. Co., 96 U. S. 627, 636; De Vaughn v. Hutchinson,
165 U. S. 566. The assumption upon which that construction
proceeded we have decided to be correct, and it is enough to
add that there is nothing in the decision rendered last week
in Montana Mining Co. v. St. Louis Mining & Milling Co.,
ante, p. 204 that prevents our agreeing with the result.
Judgment affirmed.

ARMSTRONG, RECEIVER, v. ASHLEY.
APPEAL FROM THE

COURT OF APPEALS

OF THE

DISTRICT OF

COLUMBIA.
No. 122.

Argued December 7, 10, 1906.-Decided January 21, 1907.

Where the title of one claiming ownership of real estate in bad faith is openly
questioned and attacked in actions of ejectment, neither he nor his mortgagee are entitled to an equitable lieh on the property for moneys expended thereon.
One loaning money on real estate, the title to which has been, to his knowledge, attacked in an equity suit which has been dismissed without prejudice
and not on the merits, takes the risk of the title and his knowledge extends

