ARTHUR v. TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. 505
204 U. S.

Syllabus.

murrer was sustained and the judgment previously entered
affirmed against this plaintiff in error, who then brought
the case here on a separate writ of error.
The special pleas filed by the plaintiff in error were seven
in number, the first six being the same as filed by the other
plaintiffs in error in the case. The seventh set up the failure
of the plaintiffs to give notice to the sureties that the principals
in the bond had not paid for the goods at the expiration of
the' term of credit allowed them, and also that the time had
been extended by the plaintiffs in which the principals in the
bond might pay for the goods sold to them. No definite
term of extension was stated. What has already been said
in regard to the other six pleas in the case determines the
decision in regard to the same pleas hereinabove set forth.
In regard to the seventh plea the plaintiff in error says in his
brief in this court that he makes no point concerning the same.
Judgment affirmed.

ARTHUR v. TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE EIGHTH

CIRCUIT.

No. 176. Argued January 24, 1907.-Decided February 25, 1907.
Cau v. Texas & Pacific Ry. Co., 194 U. S. 427, followed as to binding effect
of agreements in bills of lading exempting carrier from fire loss and claimed
to have been forced on the shipper under duress and without consideration.
Where a railway company has no other place for delivery of cotton than the
stores and platform of a compress company, where all cotton transported
by it is compressed at its expense and by its order; its acceptance of,
and exchange of its own bills of lading for, receipts of the compress
company passes to it the constructive possession and absolute control
of the cotton represented thereby, and constitutes a, complete' delivery to it thereof ; nor can the railway company thereafter divest itself
of responsibility for due care by leaving the cotton in the hands of the
compress company as that company becomes its agent.
.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

204 U. S.

On the evidence in this case the question of whether the custodians of the
cotton were guilty of negligence should have been submitted to the

jury.
139 Fed. Rep. 127, reversed.

plaintiffs in error, who were plaintiffs below, filed
complaint
against the railway company in the Circuit
their
Court of the United States -for the Western District of Arkansas, Texarkana Division. The case arose under the laws
of the United States, as the defendant was incorporated
under an act of Congress, passed March 3, 1871, which act was
amended by one passed May 2, 1872, among other things
changing the name of the corporation to that under which
it was sued in this case. Upon the trial the court directed
a verdict for the defendant, which was affirmed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals, 139 Fed. Rep. 127, and the plaintiffs have
come here by writ of error.
The action was to recover damages against the defendant
for loss by fire of 50 bales of cotton, which were burned at
Texarkana, Texas, September 19, 1900, and which the plaintiffs allege had been duly delivered to the defendant at that
place, under a through bill of lading for transportation to
Utica, New York. In the third clause of the conditions
stated in the bill of lading was a provision "That neither the
Texas and Pacific Railway Company nor any connecting
carrier handling said cotton shall be liable for damages to or
destruction of said cotton by fire." In the fifth clause of
the bill of lading it was provided that "each carrier over
whose road the cotton is to be carried hereunder shall have
the privilege, at its own cost, to compress the same for greater
convenience in handling and forwarding, and shall not be
responsible for deviation or unavoidable delays in procuring
such compression."
Although the cotton was destroyed by fire, plaintiffs alleged
that they were not concluded by the fire clause, which they
allege was void "because (1) said bill of lading was executed
by said plaintiffs under duress; (2) said provision is unreasonTHE

ARTHUR v. TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. 507
204 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

able; and (3) was without a consideration." The freight
rates charged in the bill were the regular rates for the shipment of cotton Over all lines of railway between Texarkana
and Utica, New York, and no option was given to said plaintiffs, as they allege in their complaint, to receive any other
form of bill of lading than that exempting the defendant
from liability for loss of the cotton by fire, and plaintiffs
allege they did not assent thereto.
It was also alleged that the place where the cotton was
stored after its delivery to the railway company
by the plaintiffs was not a safe place, being on the platform of the Union
Compress Corhpany; that the platform was -not enclosed,
and that there was no proper provision made to prevent the
destruction of the cotton by fire, and that the cotton was at
such place exposed to the sparks of passing engines, and that
the employ~s of the Union Compress Company, which was
the agent of the defendant, neglected to care for the cotton,
which caught fire from spatks from a passing engine and was
destroyed, September 19, 1900, whereby defendants became
liable to the plaintiffs in the sum of $2,605, the value of the
cotton. The defendant, by answer, put in issue all the allegations as to negligence by its own servants or by the servants
or agents of the compress company, and also denied that the
plaintiffs had ever delivered the cotton to the railway company;
and alleged that at the time it was destroyed it was in the
possession and control of the compress company, which was
not its agent and over which it had no control.
Upon the trial evidence was given tending to prove the
following facts: The plaintiffs, with offices at Texarkana,
were extensive buyers of cotton, which they purchased in the
surrounding country and had it transported to that place as a
place of concentration, where it might be classified and subsequently transported to the East and other parts of the
country by the railroads.
The Union Compress Company was an independent corporation, doing business at Texarkana, as a compresser of cotton,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

204 U. S.

which it compressed for the various railroads having tracks
at that place. The compress company had a platform on
its own land, of about 400 X 600 feet, upon which cotton was
delivered from wagons and from railroad- cars, and the receipt of the cotton was acknowledged by the compress company. From this platform cotton was loaded on the respective cars of the different railroads, the tracks of which
surrounded the platform on three of its sides. This platform
was within the State of Texas. Substantially all the cotton
received at Texarkana was received at this platform. The
local platform of the defendant company was not calculated
to receive cotton for shipment by the company, on account
of its small size, and the defendant's agent testified that-he
would not know what to do with cotton if offered at this
platform, except to send it to the platform of the compress
company. When cotton was placed on the platform of the
compress company it did not then compress it, but it remained
there until further orders were given, as herein stated. After
delivery on the platform, and after the shipper had procured
the written acknowledgment of the receipt of the cotton by
the compress company, the practice was for the shipper,
when he was ready to have it shipped, to go to the railway
company, and upon the surrender of the-receipts of the compress company to the- agent of the railway company the shipper would receive from such agent a bill of lading for the
cotton, which acknowledged its receipt by the company
and the place and person it was consigned to, and the shipper had nothing further to do in regard to the cotton. He'
issued no orders for compressing it, arid was not allowed to
route it by any particular route. He would identify the
cotton covered by the bill and give the destination point
of the cotton and the nanic of the consignee, and there his
right ended. The railroad company, when it received from
the shipper the compress company's receipt, and gave its bill
of lading to the shipper, took the receipts to the compress
company and gave them up, and directed the company to

ARTHUR v. TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. 509
204 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

compress the cotton and obtain insurance upon it covering
the responsibility of the railroad company, and load it into
cars to be designated by the railroad company's agent. It
was a general understanding between the railroad company
and' the compress company that when the former delivered
the cotton receipts to the compress company it was to compress the cotton, obtain the insurance and give the policies
to the agent of the railway company; and ship the cotton on
the cars pointed out by the railway company's agent. There
is no evidence that the compress company ever compressed
cotton at the orders of the shipper, or charged him for the
storage of the cotton on the platform.. The compressing
was in fact done by the compress company for the railway
company, for its convenience, by its direction and at its cost.
While the cotton was being compressed the compress company
was not under the control of the railway company in matters
relating to the mode and manner of compressing, nor were
the employ6s of the compress company under any control
by the railway company, but the compress company followed
the orders. of the railway company when to compress and
where to load the cotton after compressing.
This customary way of doing business was followed with
regard to the cotton in question. It was received on the
platform of the compress company from plaintiffs, and receipts given for it to them. These receipts were taken on
September 17, 1900, o the agent of the railway company,
who thereupon signed-'and delivered a bill of lading to plaintiffs, acknowledging the receipt of the cotton .to be transported
to Utica, New York, at named rates. The agent of the railway company, then took these receipts which plaintiffs had
handed to him, and delivered them to the compress company
-and gave written instructions, signed by such agent, to the
compress company on a form customarily used, and which
ran thus: "I have this day -issued on your compress receipts
bill of lading to W. A. Arthur & Company for 50 bales of cotton, (marks, number of bales, and total weight given.) Do-

OCTOBER, TERM 1906.
Statement of the Case.

204 U. S.

mestic. Compress and ship the above cotton," as stated
in directions. The compress company, when its own receipts
were delivered to it by the railway company's agent, in accordance with its general custom, caused this cotton to be
insured for the benefit of the defendant company and in
the name of that company, and delivered the policies to the
agent of the railway company, who forwarded them to division headquarters at Dallas, Texas. The compress company paid for the insurance under the direction of the railway
company.
It was while the cotton was still on the platform and not
yet compressed that it was burned.
The order adopted by the Texas State Railroad Commission,

which was put in evidence, reads as follows:
"Thirteenth. When cotton is tendered to railroad companies upon compress platform, which is situated on the
track of such railroad companies, it shall be the duty of the
railroad companies to take charge of and receipt for such
cotton in" the same manner and on the same terms as they
would receive and receipt for cotton when taken at its own
depot or platform erected for such transactions; provided,
however, that the shipper or the compress company shall
in such cases assume the additional risk of insurance involved
by-such act of the railroad company."
The rule of the defendant was also put in evidence, and
reads as follows:

"Rule Eleven. When cotton is tendered this company
upon a compress platform which is situated on the track of
this company agent shall take charge of and receipt for such
cotton in the same manner and on the same terms as he would
receive and receipt for the cotton if tendered him at this company's depot platform or other places assigned by it for such
transactions; provided, however, that the shipper or the
compress company shall, in such cases, assume the additional risk of insurance involved by such act of this company."

ARTHUR v. TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. 511
204 U. S

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

Mr. William H. Arnold, with whom Mr. James K. Jones
and Mr. James K. Jones, Junior, were on the brief, for plaintiffs in error:
The cotton had been delivered and accepted, and the liability of the defendant as a common carrier existed at the
time of the fire.
Upon the delivery and a'cceptance of goods the carrier's
liability is the same as when the goods are in transit.
The delivery of goods for shipment to an agent of the carrier duly authorized to receive them, or who is clothed with
apparent authority and has been accustomed to receive
goods for carriage, is sufficient to bind the carrier. Goods
must be tendered at a time and place where the carrier is
accustomed to receive freight. A deposit of the goods may
amount to a delivery when there is proof of a constant and
habitual practice and usage on the part of the carrier to receive goods for transportation when they are deposited for
it in a certain place; proof of such practice is sufficient to show
a public offer by the carrier to receive in that way,, and to constitute an agreement between it and the shipper by which
goods when so deposited will be considered having been
delivered to it without further formality. 5 Am. & Eng.
Ency. of Law, 2d ed., 181; Pratt v. Grand Trunk Ry. Co.,
95 U. S. 336.
The duty of loading freight of any kind upon cars, rests
primarily upon the carrier. It is not necessary to constitute
a delivery to a carrier that the goods be loaded upon the cars.
5 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law, 2d ed., 189; Bulkley v. Naunkeag
Steam Cotton Co., 24 How. 386; Fitchburg Ry. Co. v. Hanna,
6 Gray (Mass.), 541.
A limitation against liability is not operative where the
loss occurred by reason of negligence. Railroad Co. v. Lockwood, 17 Wall. 383; Bank of Ky. v. Adams Express Co., 93
U. S. 174; Inman v. Railway Co., 129 U. S. 128.
The defendant was neglignt-in detaining and storing the
cotton with the compress company on its platforms, a place

'OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

204 U. S.

known to the defendants to be unsafe, the cotton was kept
unprotected against fire.
The compress company was the agent of the defendant,
charged with the protection of the cotton, for whose .negligence the defendant was liable, and it negligently left the
cotton exposed, and failed to take the ordinary precautions
to guard or watch it, and did not use the means in its power
to prevent its loss. The compress company provided *no
protection against fire, and defendant knowing this', is liable
for the loss of plaintiff's cotton.
Whether these acts on the part of the compress company
and its employ6s constituted negligence which contributed
to the loss of the cotton should have been left to the jury,
since the compress company was the agent of the railway
company in custody of the cotton. The authorities clearly
sustain the proposition that the railway company is liable
for the negligence of the compress company and its employ~s.
Bank of Ky. V. Adams Express Co., 93 U. S. 174; Block v.
Merchants' Dispatch T. Co. (Tenn.), 6 S.'W. Rep. 881; Boscowitz v. Express Co., 93 Illinois, 523; Christenson v. Express Co., 15 Minnesota, 270 (Gil.. 208); Transportation Co. v.
Oil Co., 63 Pa. St. 14.
The fire exemption in bill of lading was void for duress.
The evidence leaves it clear that no option was given or
afforded plaintiffs for the shipment of their cotton except on
the terms prescribed by the bill of lading. Here was a plain
coercion on the part of the defendant requiring the plaintiffs
to accept this form of bill of lading or none at all.
The fire clause 'nbill of lading if valid was not in force
while cotton was detained for compression.
One who has by contract assumed certain liabilities cannot
free himself therefrom by the employment of an independent
contractor, and this principle has been held to be applicable
when the contract is merely one implied by law. 16 Am.
& Eng. Ency. of Law, 204; Montgomery Gas Light Co. v.
Montgomery R. Co., 86 Alabama, 373; Atlanta &c. R. Co. v.

ARTHUR v. TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. 513
204 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Kimberly, 87 Georgia, 161; Waller v. Lasher, 37 Ill. App. 609;
Edwards v. N. Y. &c. Ry. Co., 98 N. Y. 245.
Mr. David D. Duncan, with whom Mr. John F. Dillon
was on the brief, for defendant in error:
The stipulations in the bill of lading that defendant should
not be liable for the loss or destruction of the cotton by fire,
nor for loss or damage thereto by causes beyond its control,
or not occurring on its own line, and that in having the same
compressed it should not be responsible for deviation or
unavoidable delays, are all valid and binding.
As to validity of the fire clause in identically the same kind
of a bill of lading, and for the same fire see Cau v. T. & P.
Ry., 113 Fed. Rep. 91; S. C., 194 U. S. 427.
While the shipper might insist on the railway company
-receiving and transporting his property under his common
law liability, he could only compel it to transport to the end
of its line. He would have no right to demand a bill of lading
beyond the line of the initial carrier. Railway v. Sharp, 40
S. W. Rep. 71; Ry. v. Hurst, 67 Arkansas, 407; Exp. Co. v. Welcome, 29 S. W. Rep. 34.
The compress company was not the agent of the railway
company.
The compress company acted independently of the railway company, and selected and provided its own platform
and appliances, for storing cotton, its own process for pressing
the same, and its own appliances for extinguishing fire, and
the railway company had no authority or right to make
any change, or in any way or manner whatever direct or con-trol the compress company or its servants in
the manner of
doing the work, or of providing appliances or places for the
work.
There was no actual delivery to the defendant. It had
no control over the cotton, and no right to handle it, and
had nothing else to do with it, until it was loaded on the
cars.
VOL. CCIV-'3

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

The compress company was a contractor for whose negligence defendant in error cannot be held responsible.
The compression of the cotton was a collateral and independent undertaking of the Union Compress Company, and
the injury did not result from the acts called for or rendered
necessary by the contract.
Defendant in error did not contract or agree with plaintiff
in error to put the cotton in proper condition for transportation, but only reserved the right to do so, without rendering
it liable for deviation or unavoidable delays. Bank v. Express Company, 93 U. S. 174, distinguished.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiffs, in order to avoid the obstacle in the agreement in the third clause of the bill of lading, providing that
defendant was not to be liable for damages to the cotton by
fire, contend, as set up in the complaint, that the clause in
the bill of lading was received under duress, and that it was
unreasonable and without consideration. These contentions
have -been answered and overruled, upon much the same
evidence, in the case of Cau v. Texas & Pacific Ry. Co., 194
U. S. 427, and need not be further discussed.
With the fire clause in force, it became necessary for the
plaintiffs, in maintaining their action, to show that defendant
had received the cotton, and that it was destroyed through
the negligence of the defendant or its agents, as the exemption
would not apply to a case of damage occurring through such
negligence. Bank of Kentucky v. Adams Express Company,
93 U. S. 174. We are of opinion, after carefully reading the
record, that there was evidence enough to be submitted to
the jury upon the question of negligence in the care of the
cotton while on the platform.
This leaves the questions whether there was a delivery of
the cotton to the railway company, and whether the compress

ARTHUR v. TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. 515
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

company, at the time of the fire, was the agent of the railway
company as to that cotton.
Upon the evidence in this case, was there a delivery? The
evidence showed that the cotton was not delivered on the
platform by the plaintiffs for the purpose of being compressed
for them by the compress company. The order to compress
was subsequently given by the railway company. That company had no other place for the delivery of the cotton to it
than at this platform, but, as there were three companies
with tracks at the platform, with: either one of which the
shipper might contract for the transportation of the cotton,
it cannot be held that there was at the time of the delivery
of the, cotton at the platform a delivery to the defendant,
especially as the compress company itself acknowledged
the receipt of the cotton. But when these receipts were
handed by the plaintiffs to the defendant's agent, who took
them and issued a bill of lading' to the plaintiffs, the construetive possession and the entire control of the cotton passed
to the defendant. It could then, if so minded, have taken
the cotton and, loaded it on cars and taken it away without
having had it cbmpressed. It was, ,however, compressed by
its own order, given in writing to the compress company, and
for, its own convenience and at its own cost, and the insurance
was obtained by its direction by the compress company,
in the name of the defendaut and for its benefit, and such
,policies were delivered to the defendant and sent by its agent
to Dallas. Most probably the cost of compression and insurance was paid by the plaintiffs in the rate paid by them
for the transportation of the cotton, as that cost was one of
the factors which may be supposed to have entered into the
rate of freight charged by the defendant; but the total sum
paid for transportation by plaintiffs left the matter with de.fendant to compress and insure if it saw fit, which.it probably,
would think fit to do in all cases as an ordinary business precaution. The fact that in getting the cotton compressed
the railway chose to have it done by an independent con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

tractor, over whose acts it had no control while the cotton
was being compressed, and the fact that it would order the
compress company after compressing to load the cotton on
cars selected by defendant's agent, did not in any way affect
the fact that the cotton had been received by the railway company, and that it was thereafter subject to its full control.
The defendant could not divest itself of the responsibility of
due care by leaving the cotton to be compressed and loaded
by the compress company. The latter company was, while
so acting, the agent of the defendant, chosen by it, and, as
such, the defendant was responsible for any lack of proper
care of the cotton by the compress company. Bank of Kentucky v. Adams Express Co., 93 U. S. supra.
It is urged that the case cited does not cover the facts herein,
because in the reported case the attempt was to secure the
immunity of the defendant express company from the consequences of the negligence of the railroad in doing the very
thing that the express company had agreed to do, viz., transport the money; while in the case before us the negligence
of the compress company (assuming there was such) was not
in transporting the cotton, which the railway company had
agreed to do, but in caring for it while awaiting compression.
We see no difference, in fact, which would lead to a different
result.
The compression was done for the convenience of the railroad company, after the company had received the cotton
and before the actual transportation had commenced. In
order to enable it the more conveniently to do the work of
transportation it cannot divest itself of its obligation to exercise due care while the cotton is in the control of the compress company, although the latter is an independent contractor and not under the immediate control of the railway
company while doing the work of compression in its behalf.
There would be no justice in such holding, and we are clear
it would violate the general rule that the carrier, after the
freight has been received by it, must be regarded as liable,

ARTHUR v. TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. 517
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

at least, for the negligence of its own servants, and also for
that of the servants of an independent contractor, employed
by it to do work upon the freight for its own convenience
and at its own cost.
In California Insurance Co. v. Union Compress Co., 133
U. S. 387, the question was simply as to the liability of the
insurance company on a policy of insurance against fire,
issued by it to The Union Compress Company upon cotton
in the possession of the compress company for compression,
and which belonged to divers other parties. The policy insured the cotton for the plaintiff while "in bales, their own
or held by them in trust or on commission." The defense
was that as the compress company did not own the cotton
and the beneficiaries under the policy were its owners, that no
interest of any carrier was covered by the policy. The court
held that the railway companies were beneficiaries under the
policy, because they had an insurable interest in the cotton,
and to that extent were its owners, and that it was held in
trust for them by the plaintiff. The railway companies had
issued bills of lading upon the surrender of the receipts of the
compress company. It was held that where the original
depositors of the cotton had surrendered to the railway
companies the receipts which they had taken from the compress company, that those companies became substituted
in the relation to the compress company, which before had
been held by the depositors of the cotton; that the railway
companies thus became the beneficiaries of the trust so far as
the compress company was concerned, because they thus
became the persons to whom that company owed the duty
of bailment, and the persons entitled to demand possession
of the property from the plaintiff. The policy also contained
a provision that it should be void if there were any change
in the possession of the insured property, and the defendants
insisted that there was such a. change, caused by the signing
of the bill of lading by the railway companies in return for
the receipts given by the compress company upon the de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

posit of the cotton with the latter company, although no
actual change had taken place and 'the cotton still remained
in the custody of the compress company. It was, however,
held that the railway companies, in acquiring the receipts
of the compress company and issuing bills of lading for the
cotton, took only constructive possession of it, and the plaintiff retained actual physical possession of it and did not lose
any element of possession necessary to give it the right to
effect the insurance for its own benefit and as bailee or agent
for the protection of the railway companies, although the
railway. companies' was the right to ultimate possession,
which passed to them by the original deposit of the cotton
receipts given by the plaintiff.
The question of whether there had been a change of possession, within the meaning of that expression as used in the
insurance policy, is entirely different from that of whether
immediate control of the cotton passed to the railway company by virtue of the delivery of the bill of lading in this case,
so as to render the company liable for any neglect by it or its
agent in'regard to the subsequent care of the .cotton. In the
case at bar, not only was there a constructive possession by
the railway company, but that company assumed full control
of the cotton, and gave directions to the compress company
what to do with it.
In St. Louis &c. Railway Company v. Commercial Union
Insurance Co., 139 U. S. 223, the question was also in regard
to insurance, the insurance company endeavoring to collect
from the defendant what it had paid to the owners of the
cotton. In that case the cotton which had been destroyed
by fire was in the possession of the compress company, and the
railway company had never given any bill of lading for it.
The insurance companies had issued policies upon and delivered them to the owners of the cotton, and when the cotton
had been destroyed by fire the companies paid the losses
and claimed that the railway company was liable under the
contract which the company had made with the compress

ARTHUR v. TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY CO.
'04 U. S.

519

Opinion of the Court.

company to receive the cotton and transport it over its railroad across the Arkansas River to the press of the compiess
company in Argenta, a distance of a mile and a half. The
insurance companies insisted that by the failure of the railway company, under its contract with the compress company,
to transport this cotton as fast as it came in, the amount of
the cotton became so great as to constitute a public nuisance,
as it was piled up in the compress company's warehouse and
overflowed into the adjoining streets. This court held that,
as there had bden no bills of lading issued by the railway company for the cotton which had been destroyed, the failure
of the railway company to furnish sufficient transportation
for the cotton to' the compress company, while it may have
been a breach of the contract between the railway company
and the compress company, yet such breach created no liability in contract or tort to the owners or insurers of -the
cotton or to any other person. The court, at page 237, said:
"This cotton, certainly, was in the exclusive possession and
control of the compress company. The railway company
had not assumed the liability of a Common carrier, or even
of a warehouseman, with-regard to it; had given no bills of
lading for it; had no custody or control of it and no possession
of it, actual or constructive, and had no hand in placing or
keeping it there."
In speaking of the issuing of bills of lading by the railway
company for certain other, cotton and what effect it had upon
the rights of the parties, in the case then under consideration,
the court said, page 238:
"There is nothing else in the case, which has any tendency
to show that the railway company had or exercised any control
or custody of the cotton, or of the place where it. was kept
by the compress company, before it was put upon the cars
by that company. The railway company evidently neither
considered itself, nor was considered by the compress company,
as having assumed any responsibility for the care or custody
.of the cotton, until it had been insured in its behalf and loaded

520

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

upon its cars. The evidence warranted, if it did not require,
the inference that the bills of lading were issued merely for
the convenience of all parties, and with no intention of making
any change in the actual or legal custody of the cotton until
it was so loaded."
Such is not the case here..
In Missouri Pacific Railway v. McFadden, 154 U. S. 155,
the case was decided upon the facts therein stated, which
were that it was understood both by the carrier and the shipper that the cotton was not to be delivered at the time the
bills of lading were issued, the cotton at that time being in
the hands of the compress company, which compress company was the agent bf the shipper, it being the intention of
the parties at the time the bills of lading were issued that the
cotton should remain in the hands of the, compress company,
the agent of the shipper, for the purpose of being compressed.
These allegations were made in the answer of the company,
which waM excepted to and their truth was therefore admitted.
The trial court had, nevertheless, held the company 'liable
for the loss of the cotton. This court said (page 160): ".The
case presents the simple question of whether a carrier is liable
on a bill-of lading for property which at the time of the signing of the bill remains in the hands of the shipper for the
,purpose of being compressed for the shipper's account, and
was destroyed by fire before the delivery to the carrier had
been consummated." The court held that under such circumstances there was no liability on the part of the common
carrier, because it had never had the cotton delivered to it,
the issuing of the bill of lading being subject to the intention
of the parties, and the cotton remaining in the hands of the
compress company as agent of the shipper.
The facts-in thecase at bar are totally different.•
,Stress wa laid in the argument before us upon the fact
that- under the thirteenth rule of .tht Texas Railroad Commission the defendant was bound to sign the bill of lading
when the receipts of the compress company were presented

ARTHUR v. TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. 521
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to the- railway company, and that, therefore, the defendant
cannot be held to have become liable by virtue of the delivery of the bill of lading in question upon such a purely
arbitrary order. It is also urged that the eleventh rule of
the defendant, which is set up in the foregoing statement
and which is to the same effect as the order of the railroad
commission, was adopted simply pursuant to that order, and,
therefore, no liability attaches-from the bill of lading issued
under the circumstances of this case. We think the argument
is- not sound. The rule of the Texas commission applies to
a case when the cotton is tendered to the railway company,
although at the time it is upon the compress company's platform., Now if the railway company did not regard the presentation of these receipts as in fact a tender to the railway company of the cotton in question, or if it were not a valid tender
of the cotton, it could have refused to sign the bill of lading.
The same may be said of rule eleven of the company itself.
The company evidently regarded the cotton as tendered
them, and issued the bill in acknowledgment of the fact of
such tender.
..
We think the evidence in this case made out a delivery
to and acceptance by the railway company of 'he cotton in
question, and that the compress company had the actual
custody of the cotton as the agent of the railway company,
and the question of whether the persons in whose custody it
was, at the time of the fire, were guilty of negligence was a
question which should have been submitted to the jury.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals and that oft
the Circuit Court should be reversed and the case remanded
to the Circuit Court with directions to set aside the verdict
and to grant a new trial.
Reversed.

