OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

204 U. S.

matter must rest there; it is only for the courts to apply the
law as they fifnd it.
It is suggested that the agreed finding of facts contains no
stipulation as to the dangerous or contagious'quality of trachoma, but the petition shows that the petitioner's daughter
was debarred from landing because it was found that she had a
dangerous contagious disease, to wit, trachoma. Furthermore, the statute makes the finding of the board of inquiry
final, so far as review by the courts is concerned, the only appeal
being to certain officers of the department. 32 Stat. 1213;
Nishimura Ekiu v. United States, 142 U. S. 651.

Finding no error in the order of the Circuit Court, it is
Affirmed.

WECKER v. NATIONAL ENAMELING AND STAMPING
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 133.

Submitted December 14, 1906.-Decided January 7, 1907.

Where the Circuit Court refuses to. remand, and on the plaintiff declining
to recognize its jurisdiction or proceed, dismisses the case and renders
judgment that plaintiff take nothing thereby and defendant go hence
without day and recover his costs, the judgment is final, so far as that
suit is concerned, and the question of jurisdiction can be certified to this
court under ยง 5 of the act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 827.
The right, of a non-resident defendant, sued in the state court by an employ6 for damages, to remove the case to the Federal court cannot be
defeated by the fraudulent joinder as co-defendant of another employd,
resident of plaintiff's State, who has no relation to the plaintiff, rendering him liable for the injuries, and the Circuit Court can determine the
question of fraudulent joinder on affidavits annexed to the non-resideqt
defendant's petition for removal to the consideration whereof plaintiff
does not object but submits affidavits counter thereto. Alabama Great
Southern Railway Co. v. Thompson, 200 U. S. 206, distinguished.

WECKER v. NATIONAL ENAMELING CO.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

Where the direct issue of fraud is involved, knowledge may be imputed
to one wilfully closing his eyes to information within reach.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Edward C. Kehr, with whom Mr. Richard T. Brownrigg
and Mr. William L. Mason were on the brief, for plaintiff
in error:
In order to justify removal on the ground of improper joinder of the resident defendant, it was necessary for the removal
petitioner to both allege and prove that the allegation of joint
liability made in the complaint was fraudulently made. There
was no evidence even tending to show such fraud. Alabama
Gt. Southern v. Thompson, 200 U. S. 206; Louisville Ry. Co. v.
Wangelin, 132 U. S. 599, 601; Plymouth &c. Co. v. Amador
&c. Co. 118 U. S. 264,-270; Hukill v. Railway Co., 72 Fed. Rep.
745; Warax v. Railway Co., 72 Fed. Rep. 637; Landis v. Felton
et al., 73 Fed. Rep. 311; 2 Foster on Federal Procedure, 925,
ยง 384.
The affidavits filed by the non-resident defendant in opposition to the motion to remand and which the court in its
certificate as to the jurisdictional question says that it took
into consideration in deciding that the allegations of joint
liability were fraudulent, do not even charge fraud or state
any facts from which an inference of fraud may be drawn, or
even negative the joint liability made out by the allegations of
the petition.
Mr. Charles P. Wise, Mr. George F. McNulty, Mr. James A.
Seddon and Mr. Robert A. Holland, Jr., for defendants in error.:
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is certified here from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Missouri under section 5
of the Court of Appeals Act of March 3, 1891 (26 Stat. 827),
upon a question of jurisdiction.
voi.

cciv-i 2

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

Conrad Wecker, the plaintiff below, brought his action in
the Circuit Court of the city of St. Louis, State of Missouri,
against the National Enameling and Stamping Company,
Harry Schenck and George Wettengel, undertaking to recover
jointly against the National Enameling and Stamping Company, a corporation of the State of. New Jersey, and Schenck
and Wettengel, residents of the city of St. Louis, State of
Missouri. The substance of the complaint is that defendant
is a corporation employing the plaintiff in the work Of firing,
filling, stirring, emptying and attending certain metal pots
used in the melting of grease and lubricant matter in the plant
of the defendant corporation; that the grease and lubricant
matter was delivered by the corporation to the plaintiff in
barrels of great weight-about six hundred pounds each-and
it was the plaintiff's duty in the course of his employment to
hoist the same to the top surface of the furnace structure, into
which the pots were set, and then to dump the grease and
lubricant matter into the pots.
The negligence charged against the defendant corporation
consisted in allowing the pots, which were constantly filled
with hot and boiling lubricants, to remain open and exposed,
without covering, railing, device or means of any character to
protect the plaintiff from accidentally slipping or falling into
the same while engaged in the service of the corporation in
the performance of his duties, and negligently failing to provide
and properly place safe and sufficient hoisting apparatus for
the use of the plaintiff in his employment in lifting said masses
of grease and lubricant to the top of the furnace, and for failing
to give the plaintiff instructions as to the proper manner of
performing his duty and thereby unreasonably endangering
his safety in said employment. Plaintiff alleges that, by
reason of this negligence, while engaged in the performance
of his duties on the twelfth of November, 1902, on the top of
the furnace, he lost his balance and fell into one of the open,
unguarded and unprotected pots containing hot and boiling
grease and lubricant, receiving thereby great and painful in-

WECKER v. NATIONAL ENAMELING CO.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

juries. Plaintiff below further charged that Schenck and
Wettengel were employed by the corporation-and charged by
it with the superintendence and oversight of the plaintiff in
the performance of his duty and were employed and charged
by the corporation with the duty of superintending and properly planning the construction of a furnace, and with the duty
of providing for said pots reasonably safe and suitable covering, railing or other device, and with the duty of providing
and properly placing reasonably safe and sufficient hoisting
apparatus for lifting the masses of grease and lubricant to the
top of the furnace, and were further charged by the corporation
with the duty of instructing the plaintiff as to the manner
of performing his duties, and charges negligence of Schenck
and Wettengel in planning and directing the construction of
the furnace structure and providing suitable covers or railings
as aforesaid, and providing and placing reasonably safe and
sufficient hoisting apparatus and in giving instructions as to
the manner of performing plaintiff's duties, by reason whereof
the plaintiff lost his balance and fell into one of the pots as
aforesaid, to his great injury, and the complaint charges the
joint negligence of the corporation and the defendants Schenck
-and- Wettengel, and avers that his injuries were the result
thereof, afid prays judgment for damages jointly against the
three defendants.
The defendant company filed its petition for a removal of
the cause to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Missouri, which petition contained the,
usual averments as to the character of the suit and the right
of removal and diversity of citizenship between the defendant
corporation and the plaintiff, and averred that ,Schenck, one
of the co-defendants, was also a non-resident of the State of
Missouri and a citizen of the State of Illinois, and not served
with process; also stated that Wettengel was, at the time of
the commencement of the suit and since, a citizen of the State
of Missouri; averred a separable controversy between it and
the plaintiff as to the alleged negligence and as to the assump-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

tion of the risk upon the part of the plaintiff. As to Wettengel,
the citizen of Missouri, it was alleged in the removal petition
that he was not, at the time of the accident or prior thereto,
charged with the superintendence and oversight of the plaintiff,
or with the duty of superintending and properly planning the
construction of the furnace, or providing a reasonably safe
and suitable furnace and pots and railings or other device to
protect the plaintiff, and was not charged with the duty of
placing reasonably safe and sufficient- hoisting apparatus, nor
with the duty of instructing the petitioner in respect to his
duties, as charged in the complaint, and, after stating that
Schenck, like the defendant corporation, was a non-resident
of Missouri and a citizen of another State, charged that Wettengel had been improperly and fraudulently joined as a defendant
for the purpose of fraudulently and improperly preventing,
or attempting to prevent, the defendant from removing the
cause to, the United States Circuit Court, and that the plaintiff
well knew, at the time of the beginning of the suit, that Wettengel was not charged with the duties aforesaid, and that he was
joined as a party defendant to prevent the removal of the cause
and not in good faith.
After removal, plaintiff filed-his motion to remand the case
to the state court, on the ground that there Was not in the case
a. controversy between citizens of different States and no
separable controversy between the plaintiff and the company
within the meaning of the removal act.' The court, upon
hearing the motion, refused to remand the cause, and afterward,
plaintiff electing to stand upon his motion to remand, and
refusing to recognize the jurisdiction of the United States court
or to proceed with the prosecution of his case therein, upon
motion of the defendant the court ordered the case to be dismissed, and rendered judgment that the plaintiff take nothing
by the suit, and that the defendants go hence without day
and recover their costs against the plaintiff. A bill of exceptions was allowed,, and the court also certified that the only
question decided b the court in the cause was that the join-

WECKER v. NATIONAL ENAMELING CO.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ing of Wettengel as a co-defendant with the company was
palpably groundless and fictitious, and for the purpose of
unlawfully depriving the defendant company of its right to
remove- the cause to the Federal court for trial; that for this
reason the motion to remand was denied; that in deciding the
motion the court took into consideration not only the complaint and petition for removal, but also the affidavits filed in
support and opposition to the motion to remand;. that the
plaintiff refused to submit to the jurisdiction of the court and
suffered a dismissal of the suit for the want of prosecution;
that the question is whether the court had jurisdiction of the
action.
In the first ruling upon -the motion to remand, the court,
in a written opinion, based its refusal upon the ground that
the petition of plaintiff clearly showed that there was no joint
cause of action against the company and the defendant Wettengel. Subsequently, the judge filed an opinion, in which he
said that in his former opinion he made no allusion
to the affidavits tending to show the fictitious and fraudulent joining of
Wettengel, and that, in his opinion, the same inevitably showed
that the inferences drawn from the allegations of the petition
were correct, and that he might properly consider these affidavits in determining the question of removal.
It is urged by counsel for defendant in error that the writ
of error should be dismissed, because there was no final judgment, and only in a case where a final judgment has been rendered can the question of jurisdiction be certified from a
Circuit Court under section 5 of the Court of Appeals Act.
McLish v. Roff, 141 U. S. 661, is relied upon, in which it was
held that a writ of error could only be taken out after final
judgment.
It is true that, after the Circuit Court of the United States
maintained its jurisdiction, the plaintiff could have gone on
and tried the case on its merits, and, after judgment, had there
been reason for doing so, taken the case to the Circuit Court of
Appeals; but, upon refusing to recognize the jurisdiction of

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

the Circuit Court, final judgment in the action was rendered,
that the plaintiff take nothing by the suit and that the defendants go hence without day, and recover their costs against the
plaintiff. Whether this judgment would be a bar to another
action is not now before us; it is final, so far as the case is con
cerned, and terminated the action.
Section 5 of the Court of Appeals act provides that only
the question of jurisdiction shall be brought to this court from
the Circuit Court, and that is all that is now before us.
It is contended that this case should have been remanded
upon the authority of Alabama Great Southern Railway Co. v.
Thompson, 200 U. S. 206, decided at the last term of this court.
In that case it was held that, upon a question of removal, where
a plaintiff, in good faith, prosecuted his suit as upon a joint
cause of action, and the removal was sought when the complaint was the only pleading .in the case, the action as therein
stated was the test of removability, and if that was joint in
character, and there was no showing of a want of good faith
of the plaintiff, no separable controversy was presented with
a non-resident defendant, joined with a citizen of the State;
in other words, if the plaintiff had, in good faith, elected to
make a joint cause of action, the question of proper joinder
is not to be tried in the removal proceedings, and that, however
that might turn out upon the merits, for the purpose of removal
the case must be held to be that which the plaintiff has stated
in setting forth his cause of action. And in that case it was
said:
"The fact that by answer the defendant may show that the
liability is several can not change the character of the case
made by the plaintiff in his pleading so as to affect the right
of removal. It is to be remembered that we are not now
dealing with joinders which are shown, by the petition for
removal or otherwise, to be attempts to sue in the state courts
with a view to defeat Federal jurisdiction. In such cases
entirely different questions arise, and the Federal courts may,
and should, take such action as will defeat attempts to wrong-

WECKER v. NATIONAL ENAMELING CO.
204 U. S.

Opinion 6f the Court.

fully deprive parties entitled to sue in Federal courts of the
protection of their rights in those tribunals."
And it was further stated in the court's opinion that there
was nothing in that case to suggest an attempt to commit a
fraud upon the jurisdiction of the Federal court.
Much discussion is had in this case as to whether the alleged
cause of action is joint or several in its character, and whether
the corporation and Wettengel could be jointly held responsible to the plaintiff upon the allegations of the complaint, but
we do not deem it necessary to determine that question.
Upon the authority of the Alabama Great Southern case,
supra, and the preceding cases in this court which are cited
and applied in the opinion in that case, if the complaint is
filed in good faith, the cause of action, for the purposes of removal, may be deemed to be that which the plaintiff has undertaken to make it, but in this case both parties filed affidavits
upon the motion to remand, for and against the right to
remove.
The petition for removal was-sworn to by an agent of the
company, and defendant corporation filed the affidavit of
one George Eisenmayer, who testified that he was the chief
engineer of the company, charged with the planning of new
apparatus and the construction and repair thereof for the
company, and that Wettengel was employed in the office as a
draftsman, with several other persons in a similar capacity;
that the sole work of Wettengel was as such draftsman, and
that he had nothing to do with selecting plans or approving
the same, but took the plans and ideas furnished him and
made the necessary drawings for the use of mechanics, and
that he had no authority to employ or discharge men or superintend work or give instructions to any of the men as to how
they should perform their work. Wettengel's affidavit was
also filed, in which he stated that for ten years he had been
employed as a draftsman by the defendant company; that his
work was performed in the office of the company; that he had
no duties outside of the office or with the plaintiff; that he had

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

no duty of superintendence in connection with him; that he was
not charged with any duty of planning or constructing the
apparatus which was used in the defendant's plant; that the
designing and selection thereof was made by other persons,
and that his sole duty was to attend to the mechanical work
of drafting, based upon the ideas and plans of others; that he
had no discretion whatever as to the sort of apparatus to be
used in any part of defendant's plant, nor as to the structures
mentioned in plaintiff's petition; that he had nothing to do
with the planning of the pots, no right to determine what they
should be, or whether a railing should be used, nor what sort
of hoisting apparatus should be used in connection therewith;
that he had no duty in connection with the plaintiff as to how
or when he should do his work, and no authority to' give him
instructions; in short, that his position was merely clerical
and his duties confined to the making of drawings to enable
mechanics to construct work from plans furnished by others
in the employ of the defendant, and that he did .not know the
plaintiff by name, and did not know what sort of work he was
doing or in what portion of defendant's plant he was engaged.
ITo these affidavits Wecker, the plaintiff, filed a counter
affidavit, admitting that Eisenmayer was charged with the
general supervision of the work and business of the company
at the place plaintiff was employed and received his injury,
and stating that just prior to the construction of the furnace
structure he heard Eisenmayer direct Wettengel to prepare
plans for a furnace to be erected where the one was built
shortly after, upon which the plaintiff was at work when he
received his injuries, and states his belief that the defendant
Wettengel planned and directed the construction of the furnace.
Upon these affidavits the court reached the conclusion that,
considered with the complaint, they showed conclusively an
attempt to defeat the jurisdiction of the Federal court by
wrongfully joining Wettengel.
The consideration of these affidavits clearly shows that
Wettengel's employment was not that of a superior or superin-

WECKER v. NATIONAL ENAMELING CO.
204 U. S.

Opinion 6f the Court.

tendent, or one charged with furnishing designsi for it is not
contradicted that he was employed as a draftsman, receiving
.his instructions from others, nor is there the slightest attempt
to sustain the allegations of the petition that Wettengel was a
superintendent over the plaintiff, or had any authority to
direct his work or to give him instructions as to the manner
in which his duty should be performed. The testimony
certainly shows no basis for these charges. The affidavit of
Wecker, except as to the statement of his belief, admits that
Eisenmayer was superintendent, and claims that he heard him
direct Wettengel to prepare plans for a furnace structure.
This is not inconsistent with the undisputed testimony as to
the nature and character of Wettengel's employment in the
subordinate capacity of a draftsman.
In view of this testimony and the. apparent want of basis for
the allegations of the petition as to Wettengel's relationg to
the plaintiff, and the uncontradicted evidence as to his real
connection with the company, we think the court was right in
reaching the conclusion that he was joined for the purpose of
defeating the right of the corporation to remove the case to
the Federal court.
It is objected that there was no proof that Wecker knew
of Wettengel's true relation to the defendant, and consequently
he could not be guilty of fraud in joining him, but even in cases
where the direct issue of fraud is involved, knowledge may be
imputed where one willfully closes his eyes to information
within his reach.
It is further objected that the court should not have heard
the matter upon affidavits, and should have required testimony
with the privilege to cross-examine, but the plaintiff made no
objection to the consideration of affidavits in support of the
petition for the removal and himself filed a counter affidavit.
In this state of the record there certainly can be no valid objection to the manner in which the court heard and considpd
the testimony.
. While the plaintiff, in good faith, may proceed in
the state

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellant.

204 U. S.

courts upon a cause of action which he alleges to be joint, it
is equally true that the Federal courts should not sanction
devices intended to prevent a removal to a Federal court
where one has that right, and should be equally vigilant to
protect the right to proceed in the Federal court as to permit
the state courts, in proper cases, to retain their own jurisdiction.
Reaching the conclusion that the court did not err in holding
upon the testimony in this came that the real purpose in joining
Wettengel was to prevent the exercise of the right of removal
by the non-resident defendant, we affirm the action of the
Circuit Court in refusing to remand the case.
Judgment a/firmed.

SHROPSHIRE, WOODLIFF' & CO. v. BUSH.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
SIXTH

No. 416.

FOR THE

CIRCU IT.

Submitted December 20, 1906.-Decided January 7, 1907.

An assignee of a claim of less than $300 for wages earned within three
months before the commencement of proceedings in bankruptcy against
the bankrupt is entitled to priority under I 64a when the assignment
occurred prior to the commencement of the proceedings.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Charles F. Benjamin and Mr. Rutherford Lapsley for
appellant:
The right of priority in a wage claim is a right which attaches
to the debt, and not to the person or the original creditor; and
the right passes by assignment to the assignee. Trust Co. v.
Walker, 107 U., S. 596; Burnham v. Bowen, 111 U. S. 776; Railroad Co. v. Lamont, 16 C. C. A. 364; S. C., 69 Fed. Rep. 23;
McIlhenny v. Binz, 80 Texas, i.

