OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. KEATLEY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 482.

Submitted January 29, 1907.-Decided February 25, 1907.

Where several persons are indicted under one indictment an order of the
court granting separate trials makes separate independent causes and
entitles the clerk to separate docket fees under par. 10 of ยง 828, Rev.
Stat.

Clerk's fee for recording abstract of judgment allowed on folio

basis under par. 8 of ยง 828, Rev. Stat., in addition to the docket allowed
by pars. 10, 11, 12 of that section.
41 C. Cl. 384, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Van Orsdel and Mr. Philip
M. Ashford, Special Assistant Attorney, for appellant.

Mr. Frank B. Crosthwaite, for appellee.
MR.

JUsTICE

MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

The claimant in the court below, appellee here, was clerk
of the United States Circuit Court for the Southern District
of West Virginia from July 1 to July 6, 1902, and clerk of that
court and the District Court from July 16, 1902, to September 17, 1904. He regularly rendered accounts for such services, which contained, among other things, charges for
"separate docket fees in separate trials under one indictment."
The charges were disallowed and this suit was brought therefor
in the Court of Claims. Judgment was rendered for claimant
for the sum of $125.45, certain items being disallowed.
A counterclaim was filed by the United States for the recovery of $57.90, charged for "docketing judgments," alleged
to have been erroneously and unlawfully paid to claimant

UNITED STATES v. KEATLEY.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

by the accounting officers of the United States. The counterclaim was disallowed and the United States assigns as error
the action of the court in rendering judgment for the claimant
as aforesaid and overruling the counterclaim. In passing
on the charge for the service the Court of Claims said:
"The defendants' contention as to item 6 is troublesome.
It appears that joint indictments were returned against
several defendants; that on motion of defendants' counsel
separate trials were granted to some of the defendants, whereupon the clerk made separate docket entries in accordance
with said motion, docketing said causes as though separate
indictments had been returned against the parties granted
separate trials.
"Paragraph 10 of section 828 of the Revised Statutes provides:
"'For making (lockets and indexes, issuing venire, taxing
costs and all other services on the trial or argument of a cause
where issue is joined and testimony given, three dollars.'
"By paragraph 11 a fee of $2 is allowed where no testimony
is given, and by paragraph 12 a fee of $1 is allowed where the
cause is dismissed or discontinued or judgment or decree
rendered without issue."
The contention of the appellant turns upon the word
"cause."
The argument is that the word "cause" is limited by the
word "indictment," and if it be returned- against' a number of
persons and they be granted separate trials there is only one
"cause." It is conceded that the court may grant separate
trials, and it is not disputed that the court did. so in the case
for which the services sued for were charged and that each
was separately designated on the records.
We think the order granting separate trials made separate
causes, and therefore each was independent of. the other.
State v. Rogers, 6 Baxter (Tenn.), 563; Noland v. State, 19 Ohio
St. 131; Bryan v. Spivey, 106 N. Car. 95. The services rendered were a proper charge under the statute.
2. The counterclaim was for the recovery of $57.90, charges

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

made for "docketing judgments," and the lists filed showed
amounts from $0.15 to $8.70. The Court of Claims' comment
was: "The defendants' counterclaim, predicated upon the
alleged illegal allowance for the docketing of judgments,
will have to be dismissed. The services here charged for were
admittedly performed, by order of the court,. and under the
Jones case (supra) allowable."
The case referred to is United States v. Jones, 134 U. S. 483.
In the absence of anything in the record to the contrary, we
must assume that the application of that case was made on
account of the facts presented to the Court of Claims in this.
Counsel for the United States say that the findings of the
Court of Claims "on the subject of the counterclaim are not
as full and complete as they might be." A belief is expressed,
however, that it appears, from the face of the counterclaim,
that they are folio fees. At all events, it is insisted, that
they are not the charges specified in paragraphs 10, 11 and 12
of section 828 of the Revised Statutes. This the appellee
concedes in effect, and urges that the charge was made under
and is justified by paragraph 8 of that section, which reads
as follows: "For entering any rule, order, continuance, judgment, decree, or recognizance, or drawing any bond or making
any record, certificate, return, or report, for each folio fifteen
cents." The words we have italicized are the words upon
which appellee relies combined with the following order of the
court:
"The clerk of this court is directed to keep a judgment
docket wherein shall be recorded, abstracts of all judgments
rendered in cases wherein the United States is a party. Said
judgment docket shall contain:
"The number of the case.
"The date of the indictment.
"The names of the parties.
"The amount of the judgment.
"The amount of costs.
"The date of the judgment.

OSBORNE v. CLARK.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

204 U. S.

"When docketed.
"The amount paid.
"The disposition of the funds and any additional matter
which the clerk may deem pertinent."
The record required by that rule, appellee contends, is
different from the various dockets which are kept in all United
States courts in which brief entries of fact are made, and which,
it is said, are covered by the docket fee. The contefition is
consonant with the decision of the Court of Claims, and we
do not think it is refuted by the suggestions made by appellant.
Judgment affirmed.

OSBORNE v. CLARK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TENNESSEE.
No. 159.

Argued January 16, 1907.-Decided February 25, 1907.

The fact that a state statute which was assailed in the state court as invalid
under the constitution of the State might have been assailed on similar
grounds as Wlso invalid under the Constitution of the United States does
not give this court jurisdiction to review under ยง 709, Rev. Stat., on
writ of error where the objections to the decision under the Constitution
of the United States were suggested for the first time on taking the writ
of error.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. James J. Lynch and Mr. Floyd Estill, with whom
Mr. Jesse M. Littleton, Mr. Isaac W. Crabtree and Mr. Felix D.
Lynch were on the brief, for plaintiffs in error:
The carter granted by the State of Tennessee to the Trustees
of Carrick Academy created a contract, and the rights of

