OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

204 U. S.

have denied to the Ohio Valley Bank after this transaction
the rights and privileges of a stockholder.
As we have seen, this court in construing the banking act
has not limited the liability to the registered stockholders.
While the registered stockholders may be held liable to creditors regardless of the true ownership of the stock, and the
pledgee of the stock not appearing otherwise, is not liable,
although the registered stockholder may be an irresponsible
person of his choice, yet where the real ownership of the stock
is in one his liability may be established, notwithstanding the
registered ownership is in the name of a person fictitious or
otherwise, who holds for him.
We think the Circuit Court of Appeals did not err in holding the bank, in view of the facts shown in the case, as the true
owner and responsible shareholder of' the stock in question.
Judgment affirmed.

ZARTARIAN v. BILLINGS,- COMMISSIONER OF IMMIGRATION.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT
No. 120.

OF" MASSACHUSETTS.

Submitted December 7, 1906.-Decided January 7, 1907.

Naturalization acts of the United States have limited admission to citizenship to those within its limits, and under its jurisdiction.
An alien's.right to acquire citizenship is purely statutory, and extension

of the effect of naturalization to minor children of the person naturalized
not included in the statute must come from Congressional legislation and
uot judicial decision.
Section 2172, Rev Stat., and the naturalization laws of the United States,
do -not confer citizenship on the minor children of a naturalized alien
who were born abroad and remain abroad until after their parent's
naturalization, such children are aliens, subject as to their entrance to
the United States to .the provisions of the Alien Immigration Act of
March 3, 1903, 32 Stat. 1213, and may be excluded if afflicted with
contagious disease.

ZARTARIAN v. BILLINGS.
204 U. S.
THE

Opinion of the Court.

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Daniel B. Ruggles for petitioner:
If the girl was not an alien within the intent and meaning of
the act of March 3, 1903, the commissioner had no authority
to detain or deport her, and the final order of the Circuit Court
must be reversed. Gonzales v. Williams, 192 U. S. 1.
The question raised above as to citizenship or status is purely
one of law. As there is no dispute as to the facts, United
States v. Ju Toy, 198 U. S.253, does not govern. The question
passed on in that case by the Secretary of Commerce and Labor
was in reality as to the place of birth of the petitioner, a question of fact, anid the court, by a majority opinion, held that the
decision of such an executive officer on a question of fact was
final.
The said Mariam, or her mother in her behalf, had done everything possible to abandon her foreign allegiance in order to
assume the rights incident to her father's status as an American
citizen, and was within the intent and meaning of ยง 2174, Rev.
Stat. See, also, Boyd v. Nebraska, 143 U. S.178.
Having submitted to the allegiance of the United States at
the implied invitation of that government, she cannot be regarded as an alien. Gonzales v. Williams, supra.
Under Rev. Stats. ยง 2172, if the child Mariam had landed
and resided in the country a few weeks, or perhaps days, it
would appear that she could maintain a claim to be regarded
as a citizen by virtue of her father's naturalization. See Ruling
of Dep. of State, For. Rel. 1881, p. 53; also 1885, pp. 395, 396.
Mr. Alford W. Cooley, Assistant Attorney General, for appellee.
MR.

JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This i s an appeal from an order of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Massachusetts, denying a pe-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

tition for a writ of habeas corpus filed by Charles Zartarian in
behalf of Mariam Zartarian, his (laughter, who, it was alleged,
was unlawfully imprisoned, detained and restrained of her
liberty at Boston by the United States Commissioner of Immigration, which imprisonment was alleged to have been in violation of the constitutional rights of the said Mariam Zartarian,
without due process of law and contrary to the provisions of
section 2172 of the 'Revised Statutes of the United States,
which section, it is alleged, made said Mariam a citizen of the
United States by virtue of the citizenship of her father, the
petitioner.
The United States District Attorney and the attorney for
the petitioner stipulated the following facts:
The petitioner, Charles Zartarian, formerly a subject of the
Sultan of Turkey, became a naturalized citizen of the United
States on September 12, 1896, at the Circuit Court of Cook
County in the State of Illinois. That his daughter Mariam, on
whose behalf this petition is brought, is a girl between fifteen
and sixteen years of age, and was born just prior to the petitioner leaving Turkey. That in the latter part of the year 1904
the Turkish Government, at the request of the United States
Minister at 'Constantinople, granted permission to the petitioner's wife, minor son, and his said daughter, Mariam, to
emigrate to the United States, it being stipulated in the passport issued to them that they could never return to Turkey.
That on March 22, 1905, the Hon. G. V. L. Meyer, then United
States Ambassador at Rome, Italy, issued a United States passport to your petitioner's said wife- and daughter. That said
Mariam arrived at Boston from Naples, Italy, on April 18, 1905,
and that on April 18, 1905, she was found to have trachoma,
and was debarred from landing by a board of special inquiry
appointed by the United States Commissioner of Immigration
for the port of Boston."
The petitioner's child, Mariam Zartarian, was debarred from
lending at the port of Boston under the provisions of the act
of March 3, 1903, chap. 1012; 32 Stat. 1213, U. S. Com. Stat.

ZARTARIAN v. BILLINGS.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

1901, Supp. of 1903, p. 170, entitled "An act to regulate the
immigration of aliens into the United States."
Section 2 of that act, among other things, provides that
certain classes of aliens shall be excluded from admission to
the United States, including " persons afflicted with .a loathsome
or with a dangerous contagious disease." Upon the finding
of the board of inquiry that said Mariam had trachoma, she was
debarred from landing.
The contention is that she does not come within the terms of
this statute, not being an alien, but entitled to be considered a
citizen of the United States, under the provisions of section
2172 of the Revised Statutes, which provides: "The children
of persons who have been duly naturalized under any law of
the United States

.

.

.

being under the age of twenty-one

years at the time of naturalization of their parents, shall, if
dwellingjn the United States, be considered as citizens thereof."
As Mariam was born abroad, a native of Turkey, she has not
become a citizen of the United States, except upon compliance
with the terms of the act of Congress, for, wanting native birth,
she can not otherwise become a citizen of the United States.
Her right to citizenship, if any she has, is the creation of Congress, exercising the power over this subject conferred by the
Constituti6n. United States v. Wong Kim Ark, 169 U. S. 649,
702.
The relevant section, 2172, which it is maintained confers
the right of citizenship, is the culmination of a number of acts
on the subject passed by Congress from the earliest period of
the Government. Their history will be found in vol. 3, Moore's
International Law Digest, p. 467.
Section 2172 is practically the same as the act of April 14,
1802, 2 Stat. 153, which provided:
. "The children of persons duly naturalized under any of the
laws of the United States . . . being under the age of 21

years at the time of their parents being so naturalized
shall, if dwelling in the United States, be considered as citizens
of the United States, and the children of persons who are now

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

or have been citizens of the United States shall, though born
out of the limits and jurisdiction of the United States, be conSidered citizens of the United States."
In Campbell v. Gordon, 6 Cranch, 176, it was held that this
act conferred citizenship upon the daughter of an alien naturalized under the act of January 29, 1795, she being in this
country at the time of the passage of the act of April 14, 1802,
and then "dwelling in the United States."
The act has also been held to be prospective in its operation
and to include children of aliens naturalized after its passage,
when "dwelling in the United States." Boyd v. Thayer, 143
U. S. 135, 177.
The construction of this law and the meaning of the phrase
"dwelling in the United States" has been the subject of much
cohsideration in the executive department of the Government
having to do with the admission of foreigners and the rights of
alleged naturalized citizens of the United States. The rulings
of the State Department are collected in Prof. Moore's Digest of
International Law, vol. 3, pp. 467 et seq.
The department seems to have followed a rule established
at an early period, and formulated with fullness in Foreign
Relations for 1890, p. 301, in an instruction from Mr. Blaine to
Minister Phelps, at Berlin, in which it was laid down that the
naturalization of the father operates to confer the municipal
right of citizenship upon the minor child if, at the time of the
father's naturalization," dwelling within the judrisdiction of the
United States, or if he come within that jurisdiction subsequent
to the father's naturalization and during his own minority..
Whether, in the latter case, a child not within the jurisdiction
of the United States at the time of the parents' naturalization,
but coming therein during minority, acquires citizenship is not
a question -now before us.
The limitation to children "dwelling in the United States"
was -doubtless inserted in recognition of the principle that
citizenship. canot be conferred by the United States on the
citizens of another country when under such foreign jurisdic-

ZARTARIAN - v. BILLINGS.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion; and is also in deference to the right of independent sovereignties to fix the allegiance of those born within'their dominions, having regard to the principle of the common. law
which permits a sovereignty to claim, witb certain exceptions,
the citizenship of those born within its tlrritory.
It is pointed out by Mr. Justice Gray, delivering the opinion
in United States v. Wong Kim Ark, 169 U. S. 649, 686, that the
naturalization acts of the United States have been careful to
limit admission to citizenship to those "within the limits and
under the jurisdiction of the United States."
The right of aliens to acquire citizenship is purely statutory;
and the petitioner's child having been born and remained
abroad, clearly does not come within the terms of the statute.
She was debarred from entering the United States by the action
of the authorized officials, and, never having legally landed,
of course could not have dwelt within the United States.
Nishimura Ekiu v. United States, 142 U. S. 651.
It is urged that this seems a harsh application of the law,
but if the terms of the statute are to be extended to include
children of a naturalized -citizen who have never dwelt in the
United States, such action must come from legislation of Congress and not judicial decision. Congress has made provision
concerning an alien's wife or minor child suffering from contagious. disease, when such alien has made a declaration of his
intention to become a citizen, and when such disease was contracted on board the ship in which they came, holding them
under regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury until it shall
be determined whether the disorder will be easily curable, or
whether such wife or child can be permitted to land without
danger to other persons, requiring that they shall not be deported until such facts are ascertained (32 Stat. 1221, U. S.
Comp. Stat. 1901, Supp. of 1903, p. 185). But Congress has
not said that an alien child who has never dwelt in the United
States, coming to join a naturalized parent, may land -When
afflicted with a dangerous contagious disease.
As this subject is entirely within Congressional control, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

204 U. S.

matter must rest there; it is only for the courts to apply the
law as they fifnd it.
It is suggested that the agreed finding of facts contains no
stipulation as to the dangerous or contagious'quality of trachoma, but the petition shows that the petitioner's daughter
was debarred from landing because it was found that she had a
dangerous contagious disease, to wit, trachoma. Furthermore, the statute makes the finding of the board of inquiry
final, so far as review by the courts is concerned, the only appeal
being to certain officers of the department. 32 Stat. 1213;
Nishimura Ekiu v. United States, 142 U. S. 651.

Finding no error in the order of the Circuit Court, it is
Affirmed.

WECKER v. NATIONAL ENAMELING AND STAMPING
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 133.

Submitted December 14, 1906.-Decided January 7, 1907.

Where the Circuit Court refuses to. remand, and on the plaintiff declining
to recognize its jurisdiction or proceed, dismisses the case and renders
judgment that plaintiff take nothing thereby and defendant go hence
without day and recover his costs, the judgment is final, so far as that
suit is concerned, and the question of jurisdiction can be certified to this
court under ยง 5 of the act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 827.
The right, of a non-resident defendant, sued in the state court by an employ6 for damages, to remove the case to the Federal court cannot be
defeated by the fraudulent joinder as co-defendant of another employd,
resident of plaintiff's State, who has no relation to the plaintiff, rendering him liable for the injuries, and the Circuit Court can determine the
question of fraudulent joinder on affidavits annexed to the non-resideqt
defendant's petition for removal to the consideration whereof plaintiff
does not object but submits affidavits counter thereto. Alabama Great
Southern Railway Co. v. Thompson, 200 U. S. 206, distinguished.

