OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

204 U. S.

.MONTANA MINING COMPANY, LIMITED, v. ST. LOUIS
MINING AND MILLING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 402.

Argued December 10, 11, 1906.-Decided January 14, 1907.

Where there is a question whether the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
depended entirely on diverse citizenship making the judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals final, but a petition for writ of certiorari is
pending, and the writ of error had been allowed prior to the filing of the
Decord in the first-instance, and the case is of such importance as to demand examination by this court, the question of jurisdiction of theCircuit Court need not be determined but the case reviewed on certiorari.
In this case a bond to .convey, and a conveyance, made thereafter in pursuanbe thereof, conveying mining lands in Montana, the title to which
was in dispute between the grantor and grantee (owners of adjoining
claims), together with all the mineral therein and all the dips, spurs,
angles, etc., were construed as not simply locating a boundary .between
the two claims, leaving all surface rights to be determined by the ordinary
rules recognized in mining districts of Montana and enforced by statutes
of Congress, but. as conveying all mineral below the surface including
that in a vein therein which apexed in the unconveyed land of the grantor.
The common law has been kept steadily in force in Montana and under it
a 'deed of real estate conveys all beneath the surface unless there be words
of exception or limitation.
A conveyance of mineral land 'adjoining land of the grantor which grants
all the mineral beneath the surface will not be construed as not granting
the mineral in a vein apexing in the grantor's unconveyed land because
such vein may extend across the conveyed land to other land belonging
to the grantor.
Quqre whether there would not be a reserved right in the grantor to pass
through the conveyed land to reach the further portion of such a vein.
A contract and conveyance of lands and subsurface minerals made in
settlement of a dispute will be construed in the light of facts known at
the time to the parties rather than of possibilities of future discoveries.

litigation between these parties has been protracted
through ,a series of years. A brief history will help to an understanding of the present questions. Prior to 1884 Charles
THE

MONTANA MINING CO. v. ST. LOUIS MINING CO. 205
204 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Mayger had located the St. Louis lode claim in Lewis and
Clarke County, Montana Territory, and William Robinson
and others had located, adjoining thereto, the Nine Hour lode
claim. These claims conflicted. Mayger made application for
a patent. Thereupon adverse proceedings were commenced
by Robinson and his associates against Mayger in the District
Court of the Third Judicial District of Montana. For the
purpose of settling and compromising that action on March 7,
1884, a bond was executed by Mayger to- the other parties;
in which he agreed to proceed as rapidly as possible to obtain
a patent, and then to execute and deliver to Robinson a good
and sufficient deed of conveyance of a tract described as
"comprising a part of two certain quartz lode mining claims,
known as the St. Louis lode claim and the Nine Hour lode
claim, and particularly described as follows, to wit." Then
follows .a description of what is known as the compromise
ground, a tract including an area of 12,844.5 square feet,
"together with all the mineral therein contained." Mayger
proceeded to obtain a patent for the St. Louis claim, including
the compromise ground, as did also Robinson and his associates,
a patent to the Nine Hour claim, omitting the compromise
ground. Thereafter the plaintiff in error acquired the interest
of Robinson and his associates and the defendant in error
the interest of Mayger. The former company demanded a
conveyance of the compromise ground in accordance with
the terms of the bond executed by Mayger, which, being
,refused, suit was brought in a District Court of the State,
which rendered a decree in its favor. That decree having been
affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State, the St. Louis
company brought' the case to this court, and on October 31,
1898, the judgment of the Supreme Court of Montana was
affirmed. 171 U. S. 650. In pursuance of the decree the
St. Louis company deeded the tract described in the bond,
giving its boundaries, the number of square feet contained
,therein, and adding, "together with all the mineral therein
contained. Together with all the-dips, spurs and anglds,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

204 U. S.

and also all'the metals, ores, gold and silver-bearing quartzrock and earth therein, and all the rights, privileges and franchises thereto incident, appended or appurtenant, or therewith
usually had and enjoyed; and also all and singular the tenements, hereditaments and appurtenances thereto belonging or
in anywise appertaining, and the rents, issues and profits
therein, and also all and every right, title, interest, property,
possession, claim and demand whatsoever, as well in law as in
equity, of the said party of the first part, of, in or to the said
premises and every part and parcel thereof, with the- appurtenances."
Prior explorations, the exact date of which is not shown,
but apparently long after the compromise agreement, had
disclosed the fact that beneath. the surface of this compromise
ground there was a large body of ore which, it was claimed,
belonged to a vein apexing in the territory of the St. Louis'
claim. This was not the discovery vein, but a secondary
vein, frequently called the Drumlummon vein or lode, whose
apex was between the compromise ground and the apex of
the St. Louis (liscovery vein. Some of this ore was mined and
removed by the Montana company. On September 16, 1893,
a year before the specific performance suit was brought, the
St. Louis company-filed its complaint in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of Montana, against the
Montana company and several individual defendants, claiming. to recover $200,000 for the damages sustained by the
trespass of the defendants in removing the ore. In its complaint the St. Louis company alleged that it was a corporation organized under the laws of Montana, and that the Montana
company was a corporation incorporated under the laws of
the. Kingdom of-Great Britain, but'nothing was sa-.d ts to the
residence or citizenship of' the individual deferdaw.ts.
On November 21, 1898, three weeks after the decision by
this court in the specific performance suit, a 3 ar iended and
supplemental complaint was filed, which omitted the individual defendants and sought a recovery from the Montana

MONTANA MINING CO'. v. ST. LOUIS MINING CO. 207
204 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

company alone for the ore so wrongfully removed, as allegede
On June 26, 1899, a second amended and supplemental iraplaint was filed, also against the Montana company alone, and
asking for the same relief. To this an answer was filed, setting
up the bond and deed heretofore referred to, and pleading
that thereby the plaintiff was estopped from claiming any
part of the compromise ground or any mineral contained
therein.
Pending this litigation, and on respectively the sixth and,
twelfth days of December, 1898, orders were issued by the
Circuit Court restraining severally each of the parties to this
litigation from taking any more mineral from the disputed
ground. On the second amended and supplemental complaint a trial was had in which judgment was rendered in
favor of the St. Louis company for $23,209. To review this
judgment, the Montana company prosecuted a writ of error
from the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Ninth Circuit, which
writ was dated October 7, 1899, and the judgment Was affirmed
May 14, 1900. 102 Fed. Rep. 430; 42 C. C. A. 415. The
St. Louis company took out a cross writ of error from the
Circuit Court of Appeals dated January 30, 1900, and that
court reversed the judgment October 8, 1900, and remanded
the case for a new trial as to the recovery sought for the conversion and value of certain ores, which had been excluded
by the Circuit Court from the consideration of the jury. 104
Fed. Rep. 664; 44 C. C. A. 120. The parties then brought, by
,5eparate writs of error, these two decisions of the Court of
Appeals to this court, on consideration whereof this court held
that the judgment in the Circuit Court was entirely set aside
by the second decision of the Court of Appeals, and therefore
dismissed both cases on the ground that there was no final
judgment. 186 U. S. 24;
,Whereupon the Court of Appeals sent down to the Circuit
Court a mandate setting aside the judgment in toto, and ordering a new trial. This new trial was held on May 31, 1905, and
resulted in a judgment in favor of the St. Louis company for

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

204 U. S.

$195,000, which judgment was affirmed by the Circuit Court
of Appeals, to reverse which decision the Montana company
sued out this writ of error.
After this last decision by the Court of Appeals the Circuit
Court on the application of the St. Louis company set aside
the order which restrained it from extracting ore from the
disputed territory. Thereupon the Montana company filed
its application in this court for a reinstatement of that order
and that it be continued in force until the final termination
of the litigation.
The St. Louis companiy filed a motion to dismiss the writ
of error sued out by the Montana company on the ground that
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court depended entirely on diverse citizenship, and therefore the decision of the Circuit
Court of Appeals was final. The Montana company then made
application for a writ of certiorari, which application was
passed for consideration to the final hearing of the case.
Mr. Charles J. Hughes, Jr., with whom Mr. W. E. Cullen,
Mr. Aldis B. Browne and Mr. Alexander Britton were on the
brief, for plaintiff in error:

The bond, the judgment and the deed are absolutely, conclusive of the rights of these parties in the present action in
the compromise ground. 2 Black on Judgments, 503-505;
Cromwell v. Sac County, 94 U. S. 351, 354; Freeman on Judg-'
ments, 284, and cases cited; Casey v. Penna. Asphalt Pay.
Co., 109 Fed. Rep. 744; New Orleans v. Citizens Bank, 167
U. S.371; Ball v. Trenholm, 45 Fed. Rep. 588; S.C., aff'd, 114
Fed. Rep. 189.
Where the facts relied on are substantially the same, the
fact that a different form or measure of relief is asked in the
subsequent action will not deprive the parties of the protection
of the prior findings and judgment in their favor. Green v.
Rogers, 158 U. S. 478, 502; Nat'l F. & P.. Works v. Oconto
C. W. S. Co., 113 Fed. Rep. 793, 803.
Any right, fact, or matter in issue and directly adjudicated

MONTANA MINING CO. v. ST. LOUIS MINING CO. 209
204 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

upon or necessarily involved in the determination of an action
is absolutely res adjudicata, and cannot be relitigated between
the parties or their privies, whether the claim or demand,
purpose, or subject-matter of the two suits be the same or not.
Burk v. Beverley, 1 How. 134; New Orleans v. Citizens' Bank-,
167 U. S. 371, 396; Sou. Pac. R. Co. v. United States, 168 U. S.
1; Mitchell v. Chicago Nat'l Bank, 180 U. S. 471; Sou. Pac. R.
Co. v. United States, 183 U. S. 519; Landen v. Merchant'
Bank, 186 U. S. 458; Russell v. Lamb, 49 Fed. Rep. 770; Norton
v. House of Mercy, 101 Fed. Rep. 384; Estill Co. v. Einbry,
112 Fed. Rep. 882; Eastern Bldg. & Loan Assn. v. WVelling,
116 Fed. Rep. 100; ,tna Li/c Ins. Co. v. Hamilton Co., 117
Fed. Rep. 82; Green v. Thornton, 130 California, 482; Belts
v. Starr, 13 Am. Dec. 94, and note; Baxter v. New England
Marine Co., 6 Massachusetts, 277; Burke v. Miller, 4 Gray,
114; Chamberlin v. Preble, 11 Allen (Mass.), 370; Burlen v.
Shannon, .90 Massachusetts, 200; Stockwcll v. Silloway, 113
Massachusetts, 384; Sly v. Hunt, 159 Massachusetts, 151.
The judgment in the specific performance case, though rendered in a state court, was binding in the Federal courts.
Constitution of the United States, Art. I, sec. 4; Rev. Stat.
§ 905.
The judgment in the specific performance case expressly
directs a conveyance of the compromise ground by metes and
bounds, together with all the mineral therein contained. The
most important thing in a mining claim is the mineral therein
contained. A strip of barren mountain side thirty Yeet in
width and four hundred feet in length is of no value to anybody for any purpose without the minerals therein contained.
The words "together with," in connection with the previously
mentioned subject in a deed or power, operate to enlarge, and
not to restrain, that which was previously granted. Winter
v. Loveden, 1 Lord Raymond, 267; Cardigan v. Armitage, 2
Barn. & Cres. 197; Panton v. Taft, 22 Illinois, 166.
No formal words are necessary in a deed to pass extralateral rights. At common law a deed to real estate pass&d
votL. ccIv--14

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

204 U. S.

every interest which the grantor had in the premises described,
unless some interest was expressly reserved therein. The
rights transferred by the deed herein are governed by the law
of Montana. The common law is in force in the State of
Montana unless where repealed either expressly or by some
statute in conflict therewith. Territory v. Ye Wan, 2 Montana,
479; Territory v. Va. Road Co., 2 Montana, 96; Butte Hardware Co. v. Sullivan, 7 Montana, 312; Palmer v. McMasters,
8 Montana, 192; Milburn Mfg. Co. v. Johnson, 9 Montana,
541; Forrester v. B. & M. Co., 21 Montana, 544, 557; Mont.
Civil Code, §§ 1473, 1490, 1491, 1510, 1511, 1513.
The deed in this case is clear, definite and explicit with nothing left to interpretation or conjecture or to be supplied by
matters aliunde the document itself. The subject-matter of
the grant is a patent of the United States issued to the St.
Louis mining claim as a location made upon the public mineral
domain, without any indication anywhere in it that any portion
of the lands conveyed by the patent of the Government is of
different date as to its location from any other portion thereof.
All any court can do in determining the'rights of the parties
in a law action such as this is would be to find what is described by the deed and to enforce its terms. There exists in
the deed nothing which authorizes a resort to the nature of
the property and the circumstances surrounding the execution of the deed for the purpose of ascertaining its meaning.
That can only be done when the terms of the deed, its contents,
render this necessary in order to determine what is conveyed
by it. Van Ness v.'City of Washington, 4 Pet. 232, 285;
Tiernan v. Jackson, 5 Pet. 594; St. Louis v. Rutz, 138,U. S.
243; 2 Devlin on Deeds, 2d ed., § 836.
The patent in this case is the usual patent, and there is
nothing in its terms which permits, suggests, or gives an
excuse for investigating the prior .history of the territory
embraced within the claim as patented or controversies which
may have raged, however bitterly, before its issuance, since
they are terminated conclusively by its issuance. Boggs v.

MONTANA MINING CO. v. ST. LOUIS MINING CO. 211
204 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Merced Co., 14 California, 279; .Waterloo Co. v. Doe, 56 Fed.
Rep. 685; Calhoun Co. v. Ajax Co., 192 U. S. 499; Lavignino
v. Uhlig, 198 U. S. 443, 445; Wright v. Dubois, 21 Fed. Rep.
693, 696; Mining Co. v. Tunnel Co., 196 U. S. 337, 355; 2
Lindley on Mines, 2d ed., p. 1389; § 778.
Mr. M. S. Gunn, with whom Mr. Arthur Brown, Mr. J. H.
Ralston, Mr. Thomas C. Bach, Mr. J. B. Clayberg, Mr. F. L.
Siddons,/Mr. Ira T. Wight and Mr. W. E. Richardson were on
the brief, for defendant in error:
As to the claim of the plaintiff in error concerning the Federal questions which its counsel deem arc involved in this
writ, see ll'alrath v. Champion Mining Co., 171 U. S. 293,
under which defendant in error is entitled to follow outside
its side lines all veins having the same (dip, same direction,
which apex within its premises to the extreme limit of the
discovery vein of the St. Louis. Judge Hunt put that condition to the plaintiff's right to recover in his charge, and the
jury have found with us, that the discovery vein extends
from the 520-foot plane to the 13"3-foot plane. As it is establishe I that the St. Louis discovery vein runs lengthwise of
the (laim and extends from one plane to the other, 520: to
1:33, the St. Louis Company had a right to follow the )rum luiuuunoun or incidental vein through that distance, even if a
part f the apex was not within its claims.
The right of the St. Louis Company to follow its vein, although it enters at the side line .and (leparts through the
same side line, ias been established by this court in other cascs,
'the only condition being that the general direction of the
claim be with and along the vein. Last Chance v. Tyler, 157
U. S. 683. There was an intimation in that, case that where
the claim and vein were substantially in the same direction
the owner of the apex could recover ores on the dip under
See also the Del Monte case, 171 U. S: 84;
another clainh.
2 Lindley on Mines, 2(l ed., § 584.
Between planes 108 and 133 the vein 1as.cs, or is alleged

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

to pass, from the St. Louis into the Nine Hour claim of the
defendant. Passing at an angle, of course the apex would
be partly within and partly without the St. Louis. The St.
Louis claims no right to follow the surface or any of the surface
of the Nine Hour, but, going to the deep on that vein for
that 25 feet, the St. Louis says that the ore belongs to it because it, being the older claim, takes the whole of the vein.
The vein is indivisible, a unit, an entity. Its width is not
uniform, is never uniform in any vein. The ores cannot be
divided by any longitudinal demarcation or division. The
Argentine case, 122 U. S. 484. See also St. Louis v. Montana,
104 Fed. Rep. 667; Bunker Hill M. Co. v. Empire State M. Co.,
106 Fed. Rep. 472; Empire State M. Co. v. Bunker Hill M.
Co., 114 Fed. Rep. 419; Last Chance M. Co. v. Bunker Hill
M. Co., 131 Fed. Rep. 572; Empire State A1. Co. v. Bunker
Hill M. Co., 131 Fed. Rep. 591; U. S. M. Co. v. Lawson, 134
Fed. Rep. 774; 2 Lindley on Mines, 2d ed., §§ 583, 594.
No Federal question can be connected with the deed from
the owners of the St. Louis to the owners of the Nine Hour
of what is known as the "compromise strip." The plaintiff
in error has also asked for a writ of certiorari. Such writ
(it is claimed) would raise this question of that deed.
There was never any contract, or intention to contract,
to sell any property, but simply to fix the boundary line between the St. Louis and the Nine Hour. The St. Louis was
to be and continue to be a mining claim, retaining the right
to go underneath other claims.
The pleadings, findings of fact and conclusions of law in
the specific performance case constitute a complete answer
to .the claim now made that it was the intention of the parties
to the contract that the conveyance should embrace the ore
in controversy in this action.
MR. JUSTICE

BREWER,

after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
The first question is, of course, the one of jurisdiction.

If

MONTANA MINING CO. v. ST. LOUIS MINING CO. 213
204 U. S.

Opinion 6f the Court.

the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court depended alone on diverse
citizenship then, undoubtedly, the decision: of the Court of
Appeals was final, and the case could only be brought here
on certiorari. On the other hand, if it did not depend alone
on diverse citizenship, the decision of the Court of Appeals
was not final, and the case is properly here on writ of error.
The original complaint alleged the citizenship of the two
corporations, plaintiff and defendant, but did not allege 'the
citizenship of the individual defendants. In order to sustain
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court on the ground of diverse
citizenship the citizenship of all the parties on one side must
be diverse from that of those on the other. So, unless there
was a Federal question presented by that complaint, as the
citizenship of the individual defendants was not shown, the
Circuit Court had no jurisdiction of the case. It may be that
this was remedied by the subsequent first and second amended
complaints, in which the individual defendants were left out,
the citizenship of the two corporations, plaintiff and defendant,
alleged, and to which complaints the Montana company, without raising any question of jurisdiction, appeared and answered. Conolly v. Taylor, 2 Pet' 556; Anderson v. Watt,
138 U. S. 694. Be that as it may, in view of the fact that this
litigation has been twice before this court, has been protracted
for many years,. involves so large an amount, and also presents
questions of Federal mining law, which, though perhaps not
necessary for our decision, have yet been elaborately argued by
counsel, we are of opinion that if the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court did, after the filing of the amended complaints, depend
entirely on diverse citizenship, the case ought to be brought
here by writ of certiorari. As either by writ of error or certiorari the decision of the Court of Appeals can be brought
before this court, and as each has been applied for, and as the
importance of the case seems to demand our examination, it
is scarcely necessary to consume time in attempting to decide
positively whether there was a Federal question involved, or
the jurisdiction depended solely on diverse citizenship. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

writ of error was duly allowed prior to the filing of the record
in the first instance, and to avoid any further question of our
jurisdiction we allow tle certiorari. Pullmcn Car Co. v. Transportation Co., 171 U. S. 138.
We pass, therefore, to a consideration of the merits, and the
first question presented by counsel-in(leed, as we look at it,
the pivotal question-is the proper construction of the bond
and (teed by which the plaintiff in error claims title to the
compromise ground.
The bond (lescribed the ground, adding "together with all
the mineral therein contained." The deed executed in pursuanee of the judicial decree contains the same description,
followed by the words above quoted and also the further words
given in the statement of facts, "together with all the dips,
spurs an(l angles,' etc.
Now, the contention of the (lefenlant in error is that the
effect of the compromise followed by the bond and conveyance
was simply to locate the boundary line between the two claims,
leaving all subsurface rights to be deternine(l by the ordinary
rules recognized in the mining districts and enforced by the
statutes of Congress.
The argument in favor of this construction is forcibly put
by Circuit Judge Gilbert, delivering the opinion of the Court
of Appeals, when the case was first presented to that court.
.102 Fed. Pep. 430; -12 C. C. A. 415. Without quoting it in
full it is to the effect that agreements and conveyances of the
whole or parts of mining claims are to be construed in the
light of the mining law, is, generally speaking, we construe a
contract, not merely by its terms, but having regard to the
subject-matter involved and the surrounding circumstances,
in order to ascertain the intention of tile parties. Particular
reference was made to Richlmond Miinq Co. v. Eureka Aining
Co., 103 U..S. 839, 8-16, in which this court held that a line
specified in a contract between the owners of contiguous mining claims to be one "continued downward to the center of
the earth was not a vertical plane, but must be construed as

MONTANA MINING CO. v. ST. LOUIS MINING CO. 215
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

extending the boundary line downward through the dips of
the veins or lodes wherever they might go in their course
toward the center of the earth."
Further, the argument is that the adverse proceedings were
maintained by the owners of the Nine Hour claim on the theory
that the strip of land so contracted to be'conveyed was a
portion of that claim; that if the action had gone to judgment, sustaining their contention, the result would have been
simply to fix the surface line of division between the two claims,
without affecting the subsurface rights. Reference was also
made to the suit for specific performance brought by the
present plaintiff in error, in which it alleged that the contract
had been made for the purpose of settling and agreeing upon
the boundary line between the two claims, and that the suit
was maintained upon the theory that, as owner of the Nine
Hour claim, it owned the compromise ground afterwards
conveyed.
We are not insensible to the force of this argument, and also
appreciate fully what is said by counsel in reference to the
familiarity of the several concurring justices with mining law
and contracts and conveyances made under it.
Yet, notwithstanding, we are compelled to dissent from
their construction of these instruments, and to hold that something more was intended and accomplished than the mere
establishment of a surface boundary line. We premise by
saying that nothing can be invoked in the nature of an estoppel
from the averments in the pleadings in the suit for specific
performance. True, the plaintiff in error alleged that the
compromise ground was a part of its mining claim, and that
the bond was executed "to settle and compromise the said suit
and adverse claims, and for the purpose of settling and agreeing upon the boundary line between" the two claims; but the
bond itself, reciting the fact of a settlement and compromise,
and an agreement by the contestants to withdraw their objections to the application for a patent, stipulates for a conveyance, after patent, of the compromise ground, "coin-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

prising a part of two certain quartz lode mining claims, known
as the St. Louis lode claim and the Nine Hour lode claim,"
they being, respectively, the two claims owned by the parties
hereto. Further, the answer denied that the compromise
ground was a part of the Nine Hour lode claim, and alleged
that the then owner of the St. Louis lode claim executed the
bond as a conil)romise of the adverse claim and suit, and to
enable him to obtain a patent for the whole of his claim.
The facts in the case, as well as the allegations in these pleadings, show that the two claims conflicted; that when application was made for a patent adverse proceedings were instituted,
and that rathef than try the title of the respective locators
to the territory in conflict, and by way of compromise, they
agreed that the owner of the St. Louis claim might proceed
to patent, and then convey the compromise ground to the
grantors of the plaintiff in error.
It must also be noticed that the dispute between the two
claims was not simply in respect to the compromise ground
-- at least, testimony offered to prove this was ruled outlut involved a larger area, and that the disputing parties
settled by the bond, describing what was to be conveyed.
It is undoubtedly true that if the bond. had simply described
the surface area or fixed a boundary line between the two claims,
the subsurface and extralateral rights might have been determined by the mining law. It might have been implied that
there was no intention to disturb the rights given by it.
Further, while it may be true that the words "together with
all the dips, spurs and angles," etc., are generally employed
in conveyances of mining claims in order to emphasize the fact
th-at not merely the surface but the extralateral rights which
co with a mining claim are conveyed, yet it must be noticed
t at in addition to these customary words are these, found in
both the bond and the deed, "together with all the mineral
therein contained," and they cannot be ignored, but must
be given a meaning reasonable and consistent with other parts
of the instruments. It is not satisfactory to say that they

MONTANA MINING CO. v. ST. LOITS MINING CO. 217
204 IT. .9.

Opinion of the Court.

are only equivalent to those that follow, "dips, spurs," etc.,
that the same thing is meant by each expression. While of
course repetition is possible, yet it is not to be expected; and
when, in addition to the ordinary words found in conveyances
of mining claims, is this extra clause, we naturally regard it
as making some further grant.
The scope of this deed would not be open to doubt if only
the common law was to be considered. And in this connection it may be remarked that the common law has been kept
steadily in force in Montana. "The common law of England,
so far as the same is applicable and of-a general nature, and
not in conflict with special enactments of this Territory, shall
be the law and the rule of decision, and shall be considered as
of full force until repealed by legislative authority." Laws of
Montana, 1871, i872, p.388, ch. 13, sec. 1, substantially re6nacted in Mont. Ann. Code, §5152. See also Territory v. Ye
Wan, 2 Montana, 478, 470; Territory ex rel. v. Virgin~ia Road
Co., 2 Montana, 96; Butte Hardware Co. v. Sullivan, 7 Montana,
307, 312; Palmer v. McMasters, 8 Montana, 186, 192; Milburn
Mfg. Co. v. Johnson, 9 Montana, 537, 541; Forrester v. B. &
Min.Co., 21 Montana, 544, 556. By that law a deed of real
estate conveys all beneath the surface, unless there be some
words of exception or limitation. But the mining laws of both
State and Territory were in force, and in construing conveyances of mining claims the provisions of those laws must be
taken iito account, and may add to or subtract from the
rights passing by a common law conveyance of agricultural
or timber lands. It is probably not necessary to specify extralateral rights in order that a conveyance of a mining claim be
operative to transfer them, and yet it is not strange that the
custom grew up of naming them for the sake of avoiding the
possibility of disputes. While the bond made no mention of
extralateral rights, yet in all probability it would have been
held to pass them and the court may have thought that the
single specification, "all the mineral therein contained," was
liable to be construed as narrowing the conveyance so as to

OCTOBER TERM 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

include only the mineral beneath the surface, and therefore
required that there should be incorporated in the deed the
words "together with all the (lips, spurs," etc. Yet in requiring the introduction of these words, which in terms define
extralateral rights, it also retained the phrase "together with
all the mineral therein contained."
To the suggestion that giving this construction to the bond
and conveyance is in effect the granting of a section of a vein
of mineral, the answer is that there is nothing impracticable
or unnatural in such a conveyance. It does not operate to
transfer the vein in toto, but simply carves out from the vein
the section between the vertical side lines of the ground- and
transfers that to the grantee. The title to the balance of the
vein remains undisturbed.
To the further suggestion that the owner of the apex might
be left with a body of ore on the descending vein beyond the
further side line. of the compromise ground which he could not
reach, the answer is that this assumes as a fact that which may
not be a fact. The owner of the apex may be the owner of
other ground by which access can be obtained to the descending vein, and it also is a question worthy of consideration
whether granting a section out from a descending vein does not
imply a right reserved in the grantor to pass through the territory of the. section conveyed in order to reach the further
portion of the vein. Those are questions which need not now
be determined. This secondary vein does not appear to have
been known at the time of the compromise, and while,. of course,
there is always a possibility of such a vein being discovered,
yet parties are more apt to contract and settle upon the basis
of what they know than upon the possibilities of future discovery.

The action of the parties hereto is suggestive, although not
of itself decisive. This action for the recovery of ore taken
out from beneath the surface of the compromise ground was
pending when the suit for specific performance was brought
in 1894. Nothing was (lone in this action from that time until

MONTANA MINING CO. v. ST. LOUIS MINING CO. 219
204 U. S.

Opinion of-the Court.

three weeks after a final decision of the specific performance
case by this court, when an amended complaint was filed,
and the case thereafter proceeded by ordinary stages to trial
and judgment. The original complaint alleged the ownership by the St. Louis company of its mining claim and of all
veins, lodes or ledges having their tops or apexes inside of its
surface boundary lines, with the right to follow those veins,
lodes or ledges on the dips or angles outside the side lines of
the mining claim. It also alleged that the defendants entered
wrongfully upon one of the veins, lodes or ledges having its
top or apex within .the surface location of the St. Louis claim,
and which had in its (lip or angle passed outside the side lines
of the St. Louis claim and "entered beneath the mining property, claimed or pretended to be claimed by the said defendants or some of them, and that in utter disregard of the right
or title of plaintiff the said defendants ever since have been
and now are extracting and taking thierfrom large quantities
of coarse rock and ore," etc. In other words, it sought to
recover from the Montana company the value of the ore taken
by the latter from a vein whose apex was within the surface
boundaries of the former's claim, but which in its clip had passed
outside the side lines into territory claimed by the Montana
company. With that as its claim the litigation was dormant
for four years. Now, if it were true that the apex of the vein
was within the side lines of the St. Louis claim and the ore
taken by the defendant was tgken from below the surface of
the compromise ground, and all that was accomplished by
the compromise an( bond was the establishment of a boundary
line, leaving subsurface and extralateral rights undisturbed,.
there was no necessity of postponing the litigation until the
question of title to the surface was disposed of. As we have
said, we do not mean that this is decisive, because the St. Louis
company may have thought that all controversies would be
ended if it could once establish that the Montana company
took nothing by virtue of the compromise and bond. Still
the delay in the litigation is in harmony with the belief that

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

204 U. S.

the words in the bond, "together with all the mineral therein
contained," meant all the mineral below the surface.
The disposition of this question compels a reversal of the
judgment. It may also effectually dispose of all disputes
between the parties, an(l, therefore, it would be a mere waste
of time to attempt to consider other cquestions which have been
discussed with ability and ela)oration by counsel.
In view of this conclusion it is also apparent that the order
restraining defendant in error from removing ore from the disputed territory ought not to have been set aside.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed and the
case remanded to the Circuit Court with instructions to grant
a new trial. Further, the order restraininig defendant in error
from mining and removing any of the ore in dispute will be
reinstated and continued in force until the final disposition
of the case.
Judgment reversed and restraining order rein stated.

ERIE RAILROAD COMPANY v. ERIE AND WESTERN
TRANSPORTATION COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 134.

Argued December 14, 1906.-Decided January 14, 1907.

Admiralty courts, being, free to work out their own system and to finish
the adjustment of maritime rights, have jurisdiction of an action for
contribution for damages paid to third parties as the result of a collision
for which both vessels were in fault. The claim is of admiralty origin.
The division of- damages in admiralty extends to what one of the vessels
pays to the owners of cargo on the other vessel jointly in fault.
The right of division of danages to vessels when both are in fault and
the contingent claim to partial 'indemnity for payment of damage to
cargo are separable, and the decree of division in the original suit, the
pleadings in which do not set up such claim for indemnity, is not a bar
to a subsequent suit brouglit to enforce it.
142 Fed. Rep. 9, reversed.

