OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

204 U. S.

WALKER v. McLOUD.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE- EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 140.

Argued January 8. 1907.-Decided February 4, 1907.

The purchaser at a sale of property forfeited and sold under a statute can
only enforce his demand for the property against parties actually in possession under a bona fide claim of right by showing that the sale was in.
strict 'compliance with the terms of the statute; and a sale on credit is
not such a compliance. if the statute provides for a sale for cash.
Even though a statute -providing for forfeituFe and sale of buildings erected
*on National lands of the Choctaw Nation may be valid, the title to the
buildings is not forfeited by -the mere act of building. but the forfeiture
must be enforced by valid action; and to deny to those erecting the build•ings an opportunity to be heard would, deprive them-of their property'
Nithout due process, of law.
The person insisting on the forfeiture of property by.another must show some
legal right to insist on it;. one who'has violated an ordinattce does not
become an outcast thereby and lose his right to *defend his ,title to the
property claimed 'to have beel forfeited.
The illegal *ale by a sheriff of the Choctaw Nation is not ratified by ihstructions from the chief of the Nation to employ attorneys to sustain his act,
or by the subsequent statutory appropriation by* the General Council
of the Natioi for the employment of coirnsel to defend all suits againstthe Nation involving confiscation of buildings improperly erected on'
national lands.
138 l-ed. Rep. 394, affirmed.

THE -appellant, who .was plaintiff below, - appeals from the

judgment of the Circuit Court. of Appeals (138 Fed. Rep. 394),
affirming a decree of the United States Court for the Central
District of Indian Territory, dismissing the 'appellant's. bill
on the merits. 82 S. W. Rep. 908.
The' appellant dcescribes- th's action "as in the nature of
ejectment 'on the equity docket, instituted for the purpose
of securing possession:of' certain buildings and the right to the,
occupancy of the land' on which they were, erected, and to
cuiet plaintiff in his title and: possession, of the same and to

,WALKER
204 U. S.

v. McLOUD.

"303

Statement of the Case.

remove the cloud from the title." The appellant is the executor
of the will of W. H. Ansley, who was the purchaser of the buildings, hereinafter referred to, at the sheriff's' sale.
The facts necessary to state in considering the question decided are as follows: The defendant McLoud is a trustee under
a deed of trust, which- need iot now be more particulally stated,
and defendant Gowen is the receiver of the Choctaw Coal. and
Railway Company, which was a corporation created under
the laws of the State of Minnesota. By, the second section
of. the act of' Congress of February 18, 1888, 25 Stat. 35, it
was granted the right to take and use for all purposes of a railway, but for no other purposes, a. right of way one hundred
feet in width through the .Indian Territory for its main line
and branch., The tenth section of the act provided that the
company should accept this right of way upon the express
condition that it would neither aid, advise nor assist in any
effort looking towards the changing or extinguishing of the
present tenure of. the Indians in their land, .and would not attempt to secure from the Indian nations any further grant of
land or it. occupancy than was provided in the act; and that
any violation of the. condition mentioned should operate as a
forfeiture of all the rights a~id pririleges of the company under
the act.
The Choctaw Nation on October 30, 1888, passed an act,
the first section of which reads as follows:'
"All non-citizens not in the employ of a citizen of the
Choctaw Nation and not authorized to live in the ChOctaw
Nation under the provisions of existing treaty stipulations,
who have made . or bought improvements in said nati6n, are
Iereby notified that they are allowed to sell their so-called
improvements to citizens, and if such non-citizens fail to comply with this section, then it shall be the duty of the sheriffs
of the counties in which -such improvements may be located
to advertise the same for sale in thirty (lays; arid sellithe same
at the ap'pointed time to the highest Choctaw-citizen bidder
for cash; one-half of which shall be paid into their respective

304'

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

204 U. S.

treasuries, and the other half. into the national treasury.:
Proyided, however, that if any such non-citizen fail or refuse
to deliver the possession of such an improvement he §hall ,be
reported by the sheriff of that county to the principal chief,
and by said cliief to the United States Indian agent, to take
proper steps for the removal and prosecution of such offender
under section 2118 of the Revised Statutes .ofthe United States.
Provided, further, that a notice of sale shall be posted by the,
sheriff in three public places in his county, which shall be legal
notice to all persons against whom this law may operate'"
While the above acts were in force and during- the years
from 1889 to 1893, both inclusive, it is charged that the company, through its officers and agents, built certain buildings
at the town of South McAlester, I. T., outside and beyond its
right of way, illegally and in vi lation of such acts, and'were
using the same in behalf and in- the interest of the company.
In 1895 William Ansley, who was a citizen of the Choctaw
Nation, and a deputy sheriff of thefcounty where-the buildings
were erected, wrote to the governor of the Choctaw'Natioh
and subsequently made 'a report in regard to the buildings as
being erected by .the coimpany outside of its right of way, and
-that they were controlled by the company, -and he was then
(lirected by the principal' chief of the ,Choctaw Nation to proceed according to law to, sell. and dispose of the ,buildiiigs which
had 'been built by the company outside its right of way. 'The
sheriff proceeded to advertise the buildings for sale according
to law, and in June, 1895, sold some of ,them to the'appellant's
intestate for -$270; and the, shefiff 'accepted' his note as payment, conditioned that the same should be paid as soon as the
purchaser Was put into or otherwise obtained -possession.
This note has never been paid. The property purchased ivas,
as alleged, of the value of about $60,000, and the purchaser
was the son of the deputy sheriff who made the sale. The
reason the money was not paid at the.time of the bid, as stated
by the bidder Ansley, was that the property was held by the
company and he'was informed that' it would take. litigation'

WALKER v. McLOUD.
204 U. S.

,Statement of the Case.

to obtain possessibn. Iimediately after the sale 'the sheriff
who made it reported his action to the Chief of the Choctaw
Nation.The appellant upon the trial offered in evide nce the deposition of the deputy sheriff, who made the sale, in relation
to this matter, in which he swore that "the Chief ratified my
action as'to, the-sale and paymefits of said property, and instructed me to proceed,at once andlemploy attqrneys to assist
me in getting possession of the property for the purchasers,
and I at once employed attorneys to assist the plaintiff, W. H.
Ansley, in obtaining possession of the property sold by me as.
sheriff. Mosely & Smith, of Denison, Texas, a firm 6f lawyers,
and Cole & Redwine, attorneys at South McAlester, were employed by the Chief of the Choctaw Nation to assist the plaintiff in obtaining possession of said property. In 1895 the
Choctaw Council passed a special act, appropriating $1,500 to
employ attorneys to represent the'Choctaw Nation-and to
assist the plaintiff in obtaining- possession of the property
aforesaid. In the December following contracts employing the
aforesaid la wyers were signed by Jeff Gardner, Chief of the
Choctaw.Nation, and all my acts as deputy sheriff aforesaid
as to the sale and payments of the purchase price of the afore,said property were accepted and ratified by the Choctaw
Nation."
All that portion of the.deposition above' quoted was objected to on-the part of the defendant, and the objection was
sustained, and that portion vas stricken out urider the exception of appellant.
The appellant also put in evidence the act of the General
Council of the Choctaw Nation, entitled "An act authorizing
the principal chief"to employ counsel," approved October 30,
1895, the first section of which reads as follows:
"'SECTION 1. Be it enacted by the General Council of the
Choctaw Nation assemblecl: That the sum of two thousand
dollars ($2,000.00) is hereby appropriated out of any money.
in the National Treasury not., otherwise appropriated apd.
voL. Cciv---20

.OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellant.

204 U. S.

said sum. to.be placed to the credit of the principal chief, and
to be by him used for and in behalf of the Choctaw Nation, in
the employing of able and coinpet nt counsel to defend the
interest of this nation in all suits now pending or that may
hereafter come before the United States courts in any manner
relative to the full-and complete execution of the laws of the
Choctaw Nation by the sheriffs of each and every county. in
the confiscation of property -of non-citizens. who are now occupying lands or builclings, or who. may hereafter occupy, not
in conformity to the laws of the Choctaw. Nation."
Mr. W. N. Redwine, with whom Mr. Chester Howe, Mr.
George R. Valker, Mr. Preslie B. Cole and Mr. J. 0. Poole
were on the brief, for appellant:
The sole groun'd on which the Circuit Court of Appeals decioed this case was one which had not been passed upon in
either of the courts below, viz: That the act. of the Choctaw
legislature, under which the sale of the property in question
was made, by its terms required that said sale be for 'cash.
'That this provision not having been strictly complied with,
the sale was therefore void and of no effect.
If this non-compliance with the statute was the result- of
the sheriff, in his executive capacity, acting on his own initiative
or through ignorance or carelessness, as an examination of
every case cited in support of. this *theory will show to have
been the case, there might be some weight to this contention.
'But where the. variance from the strict letter of the law is
by agreement of the parties and of the only parties having
an interest or a right to be -heard, a very different questi on is
presented. As was said in an earlier decisioni of this court,
in a case- involving the legality of the, proceedings of local
officers to pass the title to land and therefore similar to the
case at bar, "Where the act (lone is contrary to the written
order of the king, produced at the trial, without any explanation, it shall be presumed that the power has not been exceeded;
that the. act was done on the motives set out therein, and

WALKER v. McLOUD.37
204 U. S.

.307

Argument for Appellant.

according to some order known to the king and,his officers,
though not to his subjects." 8trother v. Lucas, 12 Pet. 438.
And in various decisions in this country this precise. question has been considered,, an~d it wa -held that though the
statute. required the sheriff'to sell for cash, yet by agreement
of the parties this might -be altered anl time. allowe(d. 25
Am. &. Eng. Ency. of Law, 2d ed., 768;-Chase v. Monroe, 30

N. H. 427; Sauer v. Stein auer, 14 Wisconsin, 70.
That the Choctaw Nation did not agree will not be contended, foir it was a party to the very transaction. But it
inay be insisted that the Choctaw Coal .& Railway Co. must
be av party to such an agicement 0 bring the case withih the
rule above ,set forth. That would be true were-it an execution debtor in sheriff's sale or owner of the equity in foreclosure
proceedings. in such cases it would possess, an interest which
must be. conserved. But such is not the. case at bar. No
interest in the property remained to the appellee company.
It was 'from the beginning but an intruder,, its Ionly right in
the Indian country being by virtue Of the act of Congress graiiting it a. right of way, the very terms of which- provided that
any act on its part "looking toward the change or'extinguishment of the present tenure of the Indians in their lands, or
any attempt to secure any further grant of land -or its occupancy should ol'erate as a. forfeiture of all 'the: rights and
privileges of said railroad company under this act." ' Not
only under tlfe foregoing provi8ion did the-railway company
forfeit its rights in the operation of its rdad in the-Territory,
but agaii and more specifically when, having been duly notified
to dispose of. its holdings in- accordance with the. act of the
Clioctaw legislature,' approved Qtober 30, 1888, it failed to
comply with such requir ments, did it lose and abs6lutcly
forfeit whatever rights and interest it may have had'.
A defendant in ejectment who shows no title -to the land
in dispute cannot take advantage of technical imperfections
in pllintiff's title. McAllister's Le,.sec v. l1'!iamn ,' 1 Tennessee, 334.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

Mr.John W. McLoud and Mr. Charles B. Stuart, for appellees, submitted.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM,. after maldng the. foregoing statementi delivered the opinion of the court.

The Circuit Court of Appeals decided but one question in
this case, and that one related to the validity of the sale of, the.
property by the sheriff on credit instead of for cash. In our
opinion that question was rightly. decided by the court when
it held such sale absolutely void, and itis unnecessary for us
to refer to or decide any other.
The son of the deputy sheriff, who conducted the sale, bid
off property worth $60,000 for $270, and gave his note for that
amount, payable when possession was given him, or he, by
some means, had otherwise obtained. it. He has not, yet obtained it, and the note has never been paid..
The Court of Appeals held the sale void, as in violatfon of the
statute under which .the sheriff assumed to sell. The proceed-"
ings of the sheriff were under the act of the Choctaw legislature,
approved October 30, 1888, referred to in the foregoing state- .
ment. By that act it was provided that the sheriffs of the
counties in which the improvements-were located should advertise the -improvements for sale for thirty. days, 'andshould.
"sell the same at the appointed time to the highest Choctaw
citizen bidder for cash."
The sale was a clear violation of the provisions of the statute,
under which alone there was authority to sell at all.
The appellant answers this objection by stating that the
parties consented to the sale for credit instead of cash. We'
find no evidence of such consent, so far as the coal company
was concerned or its receivers. The buildings were, as alleged
by appellant, erected by the company o its receivers, although
outside the right of way, and, therefore, as.is claimed by appellant, they became forfeited to the Choctaw Nation. It is
unnecessary to decide this question at present. But if the

WALKER r. McLOUD.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the ICourt.

property'were to be taken away from 'the company or its receivers, on the ground of the alleged forfeiture, they certainly
had the 'right to demand that it should be taken from them
pursuant to law, 'and not in open violation thereof. When a
'party, whose only title to property, depends upon its sale to
him under a statiite, dermands possession of such property from°
one'who is in possession'under a bona fide claim :of right, 'the
party making such. demand -must -show some right to it, and
this obligation he does not meet, by showing that he purchased
it under a sale, which was in plain violation of. the very statute
under which the sale took place. Hockett v. Alston, 110 Fed.
Rep.. 910. The 'c6al company dr .the receivers, therefore, had
great interest in this,property, as owners, untill at least, their
title as divested upon a. valid sale. They never consented
to any saie on credit..
The ,appellant asserts'that the railroad or the receivers had
forfeited the prope'ty by building. outside the right of wvay,
and hence'they had no right to be heard as to the manner of
,.sale, whether in-violation of the statute or not.' But, assuming. the validity and applicability of the Indian statute, the
title to the property did not become, forfeited by the mere act
of, building.' There must be at least some valid action looking
towards the enforcement of th6 forfeiture. To assert that those,
•who 'are, in possession are intruders upon the land, and have
forfeited: their prop.rty, and therefore are not entitled to be
heard upon. the question whether those who claim the property
have complied with the law, is to say that one in 'possession
and cla'iming to be the., owner may. be deprived of his property
without due Iprocess of law.. On the contrary, he is entitled
to insist eupon obedience'to law by those who assume to take
his property-by -reason of an alleged forfeiture. To insist upon
a forfeiture the person who claims it must show some legal
righlt, to insist Ipon it. In case of. a sovereign State or nation,
its conclision to insistupon a forfeiture for breach of a, condition subsequent'.nay be by legisl ation, Afl. .& Pac. R. R. Co.
v. Mingus,'165 U. S. 413, 431, and that-legislation must be.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

followed in asserting and enforcing the forfeiture by' those
acting for the State. So the owners of this property, even if
it be liable to forfeiture, may nevertheless insist upon obedience
to the statute by those assuming to act unde it.

Their con-

most essential. They did not become
sent to its violation is.
outlaws by building outside of the right of way.
- it is alsb urged on the part of the appellant'that the act df
the sheriff was ratified both by the prihcipal chief and also by
the-Council of the. Nation. The only proof of the ratification
by the principal chief (even if he had power to ratify, which'
cannot be assumed) is given in the deposition of the appellant's
intestate, referred to in the foregoing statement of facts.
Therein the. sheriff said that the chief ratified his action as to
the sale and payments or the proprerty, and instructed him to
proceed at once to employ attorneys to assist him in getting
possession of the property for the purchaser. The statement
that the chief ratified his action-was a mere conclusion of law.
I gave no facts upon wlich such alleged ratification-was based,
.and was, clearly inadmissible as proof of ratification. The same
witnesS'had already testified that before the sale he Was directed by the Chief of the Choctaw Nation"' to proceed according to law to dispose-of the buildings which had 'been built by'
the Choc.taw Coal' and Railway Company off' of its right of
wy.". It would hardly be supposed that he would at once
ratify. a violation of law in the conduct of the sale. But the
proof of ratification by the principal chief is totally insufficient
and is, as already said, a mere conclusion of law by the witness.
And, as a separate an(.[ distinct reason, we find no.proof of any
power of the chief to ratify a violation of this act.
Nor is the alleged ratification by the General Council of the
Choctaw Nation of any greater effect. This ratififation consistg in the passage by the General Council of the act approved
October 30, 1895, and already referred to.. It appropriates the
sum of $2,000, to be used by the principal chief in the emlploynent" of. counsel for the purpose of defending the interest of
the Nation' in all suits pending or that may thereafter coine

BACON v. WALKER.
Syllabus.

204 U. S.

before the United States courts, "in any manner relative to
the fult and complete execution of the laws of the Choctaw.
Nation by the sheriffs of each and every county in the. confiscation of property of non-citizens who are now occupying -lands
or buildings or who may hereafter occupy, not in conformity
with the laws of the Choctaw Nation."
Certainly there is nothing in that act which in any way
ratifies or purports to ratify an illegal sale by a sheriff assuming
to act under the law providing for sales by sheriffs of buildings
erected on land outside the right Of way of the railroad cornpany. It appropriates money to defend the Nation in suits
.relative to the full. and complete execution of the laws and
nothing else; not a suspicion of any ratification of an illegal
sale under those laws.
The record shows a gross violation of the act under which
the sale Was made, and an entire absence of any evidence showing a ratification of such act either by the principal chief, assuming he could ratify, or by the council of the Nation. The
case is not one in which any'cburt would strive to find a way
to uphold Such a proceeding.
Without going into*the other questions which arise, it:is
sufficient, to say that upon the ground above discussed the
decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is right.
Decree affirmed.

BACON v WALKER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME CO6RT OF. THE STATE OF IDAHO.
No. 147.

Argued January 10, 1907.-Decided February 4,4907.

'I'he police power oj" a State embraces regulations designed to promote the
-puiblic con venience or the general prosperity as well as those to promote
public healith, morals or safety; it is not confined to the suppression of
what is offensive,. disorderly or unsanitary, but extends to what'is for
tl-e gifeatest welfare of- the State.

