ELDER v. 'COLORADO.
Statement of the Case.

204 U. S.

attorney's fee. The decree below must therefore be reversed
and the cause be remanded with directions to enter a decree
for the $2,750 and the alimony and expenses incurred in the
divorce suit with the approval of the court as previously
allowed, but rejecting the claim for $22,000 and $1,500, the
costs of this court to be borne by the appellee and those of
the court below by the appellant.
Reversed and remanded.

ELDER v. COLORADO ex rel. BADGLEY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF COLORADO.
No. 132.

Argued December 11, 1906.-Decided January 7, 1907.

A mere contest over a state office dependent for its solution exclusively
upon the application of the constitution of the State or upon a mere
construction of a provision of a state law, involves no Federal question.
Taylor v. Beckham, 178 U. S. 548.
The fact that a state court has considered a Federal question may serve
to elucidate whether a Federal issue properly arises, but that doctrine
has no application where the controversy is inherently not Federal and
is incapable of presenting a Federal question.
Writ of error to review 86 Pac. Rep. 250 dismissed.
THIS was a proceeding, in the nature of quo warranto,
brought in a district (state) court of Colorado, to test, as between conflicting claimants (Charles W. Badgley and Charles S.
Elder), the title to the office of county treasurer of the city and
county of Denver. The relator (Badgley) relied upon a general
election held pursuant to the general statutes of Colorado on
November 8, 1904, while the defendant (Elder) claimed to be
the legal incumbent of the office by virtue of his election to the
office of treasurer of the city and county of Denver in May,
1904, under authority of the' charter of said city and bounty of
Denver. The question presented for decision was whether the
election held in May, 1904, under the charter, of officers to per-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

204 U. S.

form the duties required of county officers in the city and
county of Denver, was lawful, or whether such officers should
have been voted for under the general statutes of the State at
the election held in November, 1904. A determination of this
question made necessary a consideration of certain provisions
of article XX of the state constitution, providing for the creation, from the ol county of Arapahoe and the o( city of Denver ant other niunicipalities, of a new entity to be known as
the city and county of Denver, and conferring authority to
provide in the charter for the appointment or election of officers
of such city and county. In particular, a construction was required of a clause providing that "every charter shall designate
the officers who shall, respectively, perform the acts and duties
required of county officers to be done by the constitution or the
general law, as far as applicable.". The District Court sustained a demurrer to the complaint and entered judgment for
the defendant. This judgment was reversed by the Supreme
Court of the State, upon the authority of People ex rel. etc. v.
Johnson, 86 Pac. Rep. 233, and judgment was entered in that
court in favor of the relator, 86 Pac. Rep. 250, deciding in effect
that the charter p rovision under which defendant claimed was
repugnant to the constitution of Colorado. The case was then
brought here.
Mr. Robert H. Elder and Mr. Charles R. Brock, with whom
Mr. Millon Smith was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
This court has jurisdiction of this issue. The theory of jurisdiction is as follows: The people of Colorado, in amending their
constitution, exercised an authority under the United States;
in this case, the validity of that authority exercised was actually drawn in question; it was decisive of the issue and there
was no other matter adjudged by the court below broad
enough to sustain the judgment; the decision below was against
the validity of that authority exercised; the question here'is
not for the political departments of the Federal government
but for this court.

ELDER v. COLORADO.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The judgment below was flagrantly erroneous. Article XX
of the state constitution and particularly ยง 2 thereof, authorized the city and county of Denver in its charter to create the
office of treasurer, and to impose upon the incumbent thereof
the obligation of performing the acts and duties required of a
county treasurer to be performed under the constitution and
general laws of the State; and in the exercise of such authority,
the guarantee of a republican form of government by the constitution of the United States has been in no wise disturbed or
violated.
Mr. Henry J. Hersey for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The assignments of error are twenty-one in number. All of
them rest upon the assumption that the Supreme Court of
Colorado held that article XX of the state constitution, particularly sections 2 and 3, were repugnant to the provision of
the Constitution of the United States guaranteeing to every
State a republican form of government and to the act of Congress known as the Colorado Enabling Act, and that by such
ruling rights possessed by the people of the State of Colorado
and rights vested in the people of the city and county of Denver
were invaded. And upon the assumption that such rulings
were made all the Federal questions relied on are based.
On behalf of the defendant in error it is insisted that the Supreme Court of Colorado did not decide any question under
the Constitution of the United States, but merely disposed of
the case before it upon its construction of the meaningof the
provision of the state constitution which was involved and upon
the authority of a previous decision rendered by the Colorado
court. It is not denied that in the course of the opinion of the
Supreme Court of Colorado it was said that if the article of the
state constitution in question was susceptible of a contrary

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

construction to that affixed to it by the court, it would be repugnant to the guarantee of a republican form of government,
etc. This, it is said, was mere obiter, as the court considered
and held the provision valid.
If we were to indulge in the hypothesis that the assumptions
upon which the assignments of error rest were sustained by the
record, and were besides to assume that at the proper time and
in the proper manner it had been asserted that to hold article XX invalid would be repugnant to the Constitution of the
United States, the case would yet not be within the purview of
section 709, Revised Statutes. Under this section the power
.to review the judgment of a state court exists only' in the following classes of cases: a. Where is drawn in question the validity of a treaty or statute of, or an authority exercised under,
the United States, and the decision is against their validity; b.
Where is drawn in question the validity of a statute of, or an
authority exercised under, any State, on the ground of their
being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties or laws of the
United States, and the decision is in favor of their validity; c.
"Where any title, right, privilege or immunity is claimed under
the Constitution, or any treaty or statute of, or commission held
or authority exercised under, the United States."
It is plain that the case is not embraced within subdivision a.
Nor can it be said to be embraced within subdivision b, for if
we consider that the court below, instead of construing and
upholding the constitutional provision in question, actually
held it to be invalid because repugnant to the Constitution of
the United States, such decision was against and not in favor
of the validity of the article. Nor is the case embraced within
subdivision c, for nowhere in the record does it appear that the
plaintiff in error, specially oi: otherwise, set up or claimed in
the courts of Colorado any title, right, privilege or immunity
under the Constitution of the United States.
Indeed, under the circumstances disclosed, if there had been
an assertion of a right, title, privilege or immunity under the
Constitution of the United States it would have been so friv-

NEWMAN v. GATES.
204 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

olous as not to afford a basis of jurisdiction, since it is foreclosed
that a mere contest over a state office, dependent for its solution
exclusively upon the application of the constitution of a State
ori upon a mere construction of a provision of a state law, involves no possible Federal question. Taylor v. Beckham, 178
U. S. 548. Whilst, when a state court has considered a Fcderal question, that fact may serve to elucidate whether a Federal issue properly arises for consideration by this court, that
doctrine has no application to a case where the controversy presented is inherently not Federal, and incapable of presenting a
Federal question for decision.
Writ of errordismissed.

NEWMAN v. GATES.
ERtROR TO THE SUPREME
No. 137.

COURT OF THE STATE

OF INDIANA..

Argued December 14, 17, 1906,M-Decided January 7, 1907.

Where the highest court of the State does not pass on the merits of the
case but dismisses the appeal because of defect of parties the case stands
as though no appeal had been taken; and as. this court, under ยง 709,
Rev. Stat., can only review judgments or decrees of a state court when
a Federal question is actually or constructively decided by the, highest
court of the State in which a decision in the suit can be had, no judgment or decree has been rendered reviewable by this court and the writ
of error must be dismissed.
Writ of error to review 165 Indiana, 171, dismissed.

JACOB NEWMAN, George Northrop, Jr., and S. 0. Levinson
commenced this action in the Superior Court of Marion County,
Indiana, against the defendant in error, Harry B. Gates.
Recovery of the sum of $1,400 was sought upon a judgment
obtained by Newman and his co-plaintiffs against Gates in
the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois. The defendant
filed an answer in two paragraphs, but as the defenses therein

