KANSAS v. UNITED STATES.
204U. S.

331

Argument for Complainant.

Upon the whole record we agree with the Circuit Court that
the testimony does not disclose' that the jurisdiction of the
Federal court was collusively and fraudulently invoked, and
the judgment below will be
Affirmed.
Dissenting: MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER and MR. JUSTICE HARLAN.'

KANSAS v. UNITED STATES.
No. 11, Original.

Submitted November 12, 1906.-Decided February 25, 1907.

Where the name of a State is'used simply for the prosecution of a private
claim the original jurisdiction of this court cannot be maintained.
Although a'State may be sued by the United States without its consent,
public policy forbids that the United States may without its consent be
sued by a State.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Chiles C. Coleman, Attorney General of the State
of Kansas, Mr, Joseph H. Choate, Mr. James Hagerman,
Mr. Adrian H. Joline, Mr. A. B. Browne, Mr. John Madden
and Mr. Joseph M. Bryson for complainalt:
It is a sufficient answer to the motion of defendants to dismiss that the State of Kansas claims by its bill to be the
owner of the legal title and to have th6 right to maintain the
suit against all. the defendants, including the United States,
for the reasons set forth in the bill. This claim cannot be met
by a motion to dismiss, but must be met by either plea, answer
or demurrer, for in that way only can the State have an opportunity of a full hearing and consideration'upon the merits,
according to the principles of the rules of equity, which re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906..
Argument for Complainant.

.204 U. S.

quire- that -the plea, demurrer or answer be set down for:
hearing and argument. Sparrow v. Strong, 3 Wall. .105;
Semple v. Hagar, 4 Wall. 433; Blythe v. Hinckley, 180 U. S.
337; Morning Star v. Cunningham, 110 Indiana, 328; Ruddock v. Gordon, Quincy (Mass.), 38.
The legal title to the lands granted is by the terms of the
granting acts vested in the State of Kansas for the use and'
benefit of the Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railway Company
by relation from the date of the grant, and this legal title of
the State, of Kansas to the granted lands in the Indian Territory has never been divested and is now -vested,in the State of
Kansas.
The grants were in prcesenti to the State of Kansas for the
use and benefit of the railway company, effective from the
dates of the grants, and attached, 'when -the road was constructed, to' the particular lands in controversy; and by the
doctrine of, relation the legal title of the State dates from the
grants..
The United States and each one of the separate States may
sustain the character of trustee, and have the legal capacities
to take . and execute trusts for every purpose. Perry on
Trusts,' §41; McDonald v. Murdock, 15 How. 400; United
States v. Miciigani 190 U. S. 379; .Van Wyck v. Knevals,
106 U; S. 360 et seq,
In. the case at bar, it is the duty of the State of Kansas,
as. trustee for the railway company, to defend, uphold and
'protect the title which was granted to it and to see that the
lands' go to the beneficiary cof the trust. The legal title did
not pass to .the railroad company upon the construction of
the road. Van Wyck v. 'Knevals; 106 U. S. 360.
No patent has issued. to the railway company,. and hefice
the legal title conveyed by the .granting act to the State still
remains, in the State. The State of Kansas is hence the .indispensable party complainant and can pray the demanded
relief.
Van Wyck v. Knevals, supra, is direct authority 'that the

RANSAS v. 'UNITED STATES.
204 U. S.

333 -

Argument for .Complainant.

title to the granted lands is vested in the State of Kansas, for

the land grant there construed is. in practically the same words
as §§ 1, 3 of the land grant of 1866 to the State of Kansas for
the use of the railway company.

There is no Federal stafute of uses, nor is there any Federal
common law. The lands in question are not situated in
Kansas or any other State. Under the decisions of the courts,
both English and Ameriaan, the- statute of uses was never
held to execute the trust or pass' the legal title to the cestui que
trust where the trust created was such that it -was necessary
that the trustee should continue to hold the legal title in
order to carry' out and effectuate. the purposes of the trust.
The statute of uses has nev6r been considered to execute the
trust where the' trust was created for the express purpose of
preserving a contingent remainder.' Perry on Trusts, §§ 305,
309; Biscde v. Perkins, 1 Ves. &-B. 485; Barker v. Greenwood,
4 M. & W. 431; Vanderheyden v. C randall, 2 Denio, 9; Laurens v. Jenney, 1 Spears, 365; Co. Litt., 265 a. 2, 337 a. n. 2.
The provisions of § 3, even though they apply tothe lands
in the Indian Territory, in no way affect the grant to the State.
Van Wyck v. Knevals,'106 U. S. 3.60, 364; St. Paul & Pac.
R. R, v. Northern Pac. R. R., 139 U. S. 1;L angdeau v. Hanes,
21 Wall. 521; Wright v. Roseberry, 121 U. S,488,
This suit can be maintained in this court under the original
jurisdiction clause of the Constitution. United States v. Texas,
143 U. S. 621; United States v. Michigan, 190 U. S.379. The
only difference is that the State is plaintiff and the United
States defendant.
The Constitution of the -United States is the Constitution
of all the States speaking in a united sense, and this court, as
the Supreme Court of the United States, is "also, in the same
sense, the Supreme Court for all the United States, having
original jurisdiction in all cases of Federal cognizance "in
which a State shall be a party." The language of the Constitution in this respect is broad and unqualified. Hence,
the door does not here open to the United States against the

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Defendants.

204 U. S.

State and close against the State when the United States is
sought to be made defendant. Minnesota v. Hitchcock, 185
U. S. 373.
If the element of express consent by the United States to
be thus sued is essential, such consent has been givenrto individuals to thus sue the United States in all cases at-law,
in equity, or admiralty, not sounding in tort, by-the act of
March 3,. 1887 (24 Stats., p. 505).
Under -these statutes -and the Constitution of the United
States, the Government has not only impliedly but expressly
given its consent to be sued in a case where a-State is a party,
in the Supreme Court of the United States. Suits may be
instituted in the territorial district court against the Government under these statutes, although such territorial courts
are not named in the act, under § 1910, Rev. Stat., which provides that each of the district courts in the Territory shall
have and exercise the same jurisdiction in all cases arising
under the Constitution and laws of the United States as is
vested in the circuit and district courts of the United States.
United States v. Forman, 5 Oklahoma, 237; Johnson v. United
States. 6 Utah, 403.
The Attorney General, The Solicitor General and Mr. Assis-:
tant Attorney General Russell for defendants:
The suit is not one of which this court has original jurisdiction. A State is not a party within the meaning of the Constitution, Article III, section 2.
The State of Kansas has no substantial interest in the subject matter, and is but nominally the complainant, the real,
party in interest being the. railway company.
Legal title passed to the railway company, if -to anyone,
at the 'date of the grant, or at least upon the construction of
the read. Rice v. Railroad Company, 1 Black, 358. 381.
A conveyance to trustees for certain purposes or uses carries the legal estate to the, beneficiaries, unless duties imposed upon the 'trustees require the estate to be vested in

KANSAS v. UNITED STATES.
204 U. S.

Argument for Defendants.

them. Webster v. Cooper, 14 How. 488, 499; Long v. Long,
62 Maryland, 65; Perry on Trusts, §§ 351, 352, 520, 521. This
is the rule in Kansas. General Statutes of Kansas (1905), sec.
8624; Bayer v. Cockerill, 3 Kansas, 282, 292.
When an estate is given to trustees for a ertain purpose,
or until the happening of a certain event, the intermediate
estate of the trustees terminates upon the accomplishment
of the purpose or occurrence of the event. Felgner v. Hooper,
80 Maryland, 262; Perry on Trusts, section 351.
If "the purpose of aiding the railroad company to construct
and operate a railroad-" or the State's share therein, has been
accomplished, then the trust has terminated and legal title
is in the company; if it has not, then there is no cause for complaint.
But in this case the State was not even a trustee. It was
no more than perhaps a repository, in.-which the title might
remain pend ing the performance -of the condition of the grant,
or a conduit through which the title might thereupon pass.
The granting act provides that patents shall issue, not
,to the State, but to the railroad company. Under such
circumstances title Vests in the company and not in the State.
Sioux City &c,, Railroad v. United States, 159 U. S. 349, 363,
and cases cited; Knepper v. Sands, 194 U. S. 476, 481.
Patent not essential to transfer of legal title. It is simply
evidence that conditions of grant have been complied with.
Deseret Salt Company v Tarpey, 142 U. S. 241. Title passes
by the grant upon performance of its conditions, and being
evidenced by patent, it passes to grantee to whom patent is
to issue. By a proper construction of the granting act (sections 1 and,9), lands in Indian Territory were not granted to
the State of Kansas. If granted at' all, the grant as to them
was to, the railroad company
direct.
In formal communications and protests by the railroad
company to the Dawes Commission, the town-site commission,
the Indian Agent, and the Secretary of the Interior, the tracts
in question have been claimed by the company invariably

.336

3OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Defendants.,

204 U. S.

heretofore as its own, without reference to any interest of the
State therein. Qf the counsel for the State two at least belong to the legal department of the railway company -Apparently, the proceeding is under the control of the railway
company and the name of the State is used simply for the purpose of prosecuting the claim of the company to the lands in,
question, the expense of the action being borne by the railroad. Under these circumstances- the interest of the State
is not sufficient to give this court original jurisdiction. New
Hampshire v. Louisiana, 108 U. S. 76.
This is not a suit by a State exclusively against citizens of
another State. Some of the parties defendant are citizens
of the Indian Territory. A suft by a citizen of a Territory
cannot be maintained under the Constitutional provision that
juiisdiction of courts of United States shall extend "to controversies between citizens of different States." Corpora,tion of New Orleans v. Winter, 1 Wheat. 92; Downes -v.Bid-.
well, 182 U. S. 244, 250.
Jurisdictional qualities must exist as :to 'all parties in order
to confer jurisdiction. Great Southern Hotel Company ..v.
Jones, 177 U. S. 449.
The United States, the real party in interest as defendant,
has not consented to be sued, and cannot be sued without its
consent, even by a State.
The contention that, since" a State without its consent may
be sued by the United States, United States v. Texas, 143 U. S.
621, it follows that the United States without its consent
may be sued by a State, is obviously unsound. The question has been squarely decided. Minnesota v. Hitchcock,
185 U. S.373, 384; Oregon v. Hitchcock,'202 U. S.60; United
States v. Lee, 106 U. S.196, 207.
It does not appear that all lands in controversy have been
allotted, and the courts will not interfere with the Government in the disposal of land so long as the title in any sense
remains in the United States. Bockfinger v. Foster, 190 U. S.
116; Oregon v. Hitchcock, supra,

KANSAS v. UNITED STA(TES.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

It might be 'suggested, in passing, that in any event the
grant was expressly limited to public land-that is; land which
is subject to dispo'ition under general laws, Newhall v. Sanger,.
92 U. S. 761, and these lands in Indian Territory have never
become such.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE- FULLER delivered the opinion of the

court.
On April 30, 1906, the State of Kansas applied for leave
to file a bill of complaint against the United States and others,
to which the United States objected on the ground of want
of jurisdiction. May 21 leave was granted, without prejudice,
and the bill was accordingly filed. As such'an application
by a State is usually granted as of course, we thought it wiser
to allow the bill to be filed, but reserving to. the United States
the right to object to the jurisdiction thereafter, and hence
the words, "without prejudice," were inserted in the order.
October'9 leave was granted to the United States to file .a demurrer, and in lieu of this a motion to dismiss was substituted,
which was submitted November 12 on printed briefs on both
sides.
The bill was filed by' the Attorney General of Kansas, on
behalf of the State, as trustee for the Missouri, Kansas- and
Texas Railway Company, of certain lands in the Indian Territory, alleged to have been granted to the State for the benefit
Of the railway company.
It is stated by counsel for complainant, as appearing from
the bill, that in 1866' "there were three Kansas railroad companies running through the State to the Indian Territory line.
The first was the Union Pacific Railway Company, Southern
Branch, since the Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railway Company, extending from 'Fort Riley, now Junction City, Kansas,
in a southeasterly directi6n, down the valley of the Neosho
River, to the southern line of the State of Kansas, near Chetopa,
Kansas; the 'second was the Leavenworth, Lawrence and
VOL. cciV-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
,Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

Fort Gibson Railway Company, since conveyed to the Atchison,
Topeka and Santa F6 Railroad Company, extending from
Leavenworth, through Lawrence, to the northern line of the
Indian Territory, near Coffeyville, Montgomery County;
Kansas, in the direction of Galveston Bay, in Texas; and the
third was the Kansas and Neosho Valley Railway Company,
since the Kansas City, Fort Scott and Memphis, and now -a
part of the St. Louis and San Francisco Railroad Company,
extending from a point of connection with the Union Pacific
Railroad at or near the mouth of the Kansas River; thence
southeasterly, through the _eastern tier of counties, to the
northern line of the Indian Territory, at or near' Baxter Springs,
in Cherokee County, Kansas."
On July 25, 1866, an act of Congress was passed entitled
"An Act granting lands to the State of Kansas to aid in the
construction of the Kansas.and Neosho Valley Railroad and
its extension to Red River." 14 Stat. 236, c. 241. On the
next day, July 26, an act was passed, using the same language,
except as to the routes, entitled "An Act granting lands to
the State of Kansas to aid in the construction of a Southern
Branch of the Union Pacific Railway and Telegraph Company,
from Fort Riley, Kansas, to Fort Smith, Arkansas," 14 Stat.
289, c. 270, which provided as -follows:
"That'for the purpose of aiding the Union Pacific Railroad
Company, Southern Branch, the same being a corporation
organized under the laws of the State of Kansas to construct
and operate a railroad from Fort Riley, Kansas, or near said
military reservation, thence down the valley of the Neosho
River to the southern line of the State of Kansas, with a view
to an extension of the same through a portion of the Indian
Territory to Fort Smith, Arkansas, there is hereby granted
to the State of Kansas, for the use and benefit of said railroad
company every alternate section of land or parts thereof
designated by odd numbers, to the extent of five alternate
sections per mile on each side of said road and not exceeding
in all ten sections per mile;
.

KANSAS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

"SEc.

3.

...

And the lands hereby granted shall

inure to the benefit of said company, as follows: When the
governor of the State of Kansas shall certify that any section
of ten consecutive miles of said road, is completed in a good,
substantial, and workmanlike manner as a first-class railroad,
then the said Secretary of the Interior shall issue to the said
company patents for so many sections of the land herein
granted within the limits above named, and coterminous with
said completed section hereinbefore granted;
"SEc. 8. And be it further enacted, That said Pacific Railroad Company, southern branch, its successors and assigns,
is hereby authorized and empowered to extend and construct
its railroad'from the southern boundary of Kansas, south
through the Indian Territory, with the consent of the Indians,
and not otherwise, along the valley of Grand and Arkansas
rivers, to Fort Smith, in the State of. ArkansasI; and the right
of way through said Indian Territory is hereby granted to
said company, its successors and assigns, to the extent of
one hundred feet on each side of said road or roads, and all
necessary grounds. for stations, buildings, work-shops, machine-shops, switches, side-tracks, turn-tables, and waterstations.
"SEC. 9. And be it further enacted, That the same grant[s]
of lands through said Indian Territory are hereby made as
provided in the first section of this act, whenever the Indian
title shall be extinguished by treaty or otherwise, not to exceed the ratio per mile granted in the first section of this act:.
Provided, That said lands become a part of the public lands
of th United States."
The bill averred that the road was constructed through
the Indian Territory, and set forth at length Indian treaties
and Congressional legislation with reference to that Territory,
under which"it was alleged that the Creek Indian Nation had
ceased to occupy or claim the lands in question as a tribe or
nation, and that some of the lands had been allotted in severalty
* to individual members of the Creek Nation; and that thereby
.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

said lands passed to the State under the provisions of the grant
mentioned. It was prayed that a decree be entered 'adjudging the State to be the owner, as trustee for -the railway company, of all odd-numbered sections of land to the extent of
the grant along the line' of the road- through tfie Creek 'Nation, in..the Indian Territory, and that the allottees be 'directed to surrender the -possession to the State as trustee and
be enjoined from disposing. of said lands, or "in the event
that frbm any equitable considerations the court shall entertain the view that the allottees and those claiming under
them should not bb'disturb'ed, then that an account be taken
of the value of the lands in controversy," and that the United States be adjudged topay to the Sta;te as trustee the sum
of such values, estimated at-more than $10,000,000.
In our opinion it appears upon'the face of the bill that the
State of Kansas is only nominally a party, and that the -real
party in interest is the railroad company. Section 3 provided that patents should be issued not to the State but to
the company direct, which made the State nothing but a -mere
conduit for the passage of title. And this is so even if it were
-ruled that the State of Kansas was made trustee under section
9, because, it would only be, trustee of the bare legal title.
In very many cases "in which the grant was directly to the
railroad company; or in which the act' of Congress required
that the patents for lands earned should be issued, not to the
State for the benefit of the railroad company, but directly
to the company itself,?' it has been held that the title vested
absolutely in the railroad company. Sioux City &c. Railroad.Co. v. United States, 159 U. S. •349, 363.
Title .passed by the grant on the performance of its conditions and to the grantees to whom the' patents were to be.
issued, and here section 3 provided that patents should issue
not to the State but to the'railroad company direct.,
And if the lands in the Inidiail Territory could be held in
any view to have been granfed in proesenti, such grant was
certainly not to the State of Kansas.

KANSAS v. UNITED STATES.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The road, in aid of which the grant was -made to the State,
extended no farther than the southern boundary thereof,
and the patents were to be issued to the company. Trueas declared in section 1, the road was to be constructed "with
a view to an extension of the same through a portion of the
Indian Territory to Fort Smith, Arkansas," and that extension was authorized by section 8, but the lands referred
to in section 9 were not lands in the State of Kansas, nor was
that State mentioned- in the section. It seems clear that those
lands were rot. intended to be granted to that State for the
construction of a road beyond its boundaries,
Moreover, the bill sets forth many communications and
protests by the railroad company to the Dawes Commission,'
the townsite commission, the Indian agent and the Secretary
of the Interior, in all of which the tracts in controversy were
claimed by the railroad company as its own without reference
to any interest of the State of Kansas therein.
In these circumstances we think it apparent that the name
of 'the State is being used simply for the prosecution in this
court of the claim of the railroad company, and our original
jurisdiction can not be maintained....
Again, the United States is the real party in interest as
defendant and 'has not consented to be sued, which it can not
be without its consent. Minnesota v. Hitchcock, 185 U. S.
373, 387; Oregon v. Hitchcock, 202 U. S. 60; United States v.
Lee, 106 U. S. 196, 207.
"If whether a suit' is one against a State is to be determined,
not by the fact of the party named ias
defendant on the record,
but by the result of the judgment or decree which may beentered, the same rule must apply to the United States. The
question whether the United States is a party to a contoversy
is not determined by the merely nominal party on the record'
but-by the question 6f the effect of the judgment or decreewhich can be entered."
In the present case the parties defendant other than the
.United States and its officers are Creek Indian allottees and

342

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

persons claiming under them, and if their allotments should
be taken from them, which is part of the relief sought by the
bill, the United States would be subject to a demand from
them for the value thereof or for other lands,. while the bill
prays in the alternative that "in the event that from any
equitable considerations the court should entertain the view
that the allottees and those claiming under then' should not
be disturbed, then that an account be taken of the value of
the lands in controversy at the time of the respective allotments, and the defendants, the United States of Ameica, be
ordered, adjudged, and decreed to pay to your oratrix, as
trustee, thesum of such values."
It does not follow that because a State may be sued by the
United States without'its consent, therefore the United States
may be sued by a State without its consent. Public policy
forbids that conclusion.
In United States v. Texas, 143 U. S. 621, 646; it was held
that .the exercise by this court of original jurisdiction "in a
suit brought by one State against another to determine the
boundary line between them, or in'a suit brought by the
United States against a State to determine the boundary
between a Territory of the United States and that State, so
far from infringing, in, either case,.upon the sovereignty, is
with the consent of the State sued. Such consent was given
by Texas when admitted into the Unibn upon an equal footing
in all' respects with th other States." That case was quoted
from with approval in Minnesota v. Hitchcock, supra,. where
Mr. Justice, Brewer, delivering the opinion, pointed out that
the judicial power of the United States extends to .cases in
which the United States is a party plaintiff as well as to cases
in which it is a party defendant, for "while the United States
as a.government may not be sued without its consent, yet
with its consent.it may be sued, and the judicial-power of the
United States externds to such a controversy."
We are not dealing here with -the merits of the controv¢ersy,
raised by the bill, but solely with the question of the original

UNITED STATES v. HITE.
204 U. S.

343

Argument for Appellant.

jurisdiction of this court. And as the United States has not
consented to be sued, it results that. on this ground also the
bill must 'be dismissed.
And it is so ordered.
MR. JTISTICE MOODY took iii, part'in the disposition of this
case.

UNITED STATES v. HITE.
APPEAL FROM .THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 276.

Submitted December 18, 1906.-Decided February 25, 1907.

Under the act of March 3, 1889, 30 'Stat. 1228, the two months' pay to which
an officer of the Navy is entitled, who was detached from his vessel and
ordered home to be honorably discharged after creditable service during.
the war with Spain, is to be computed at the rate. of pay he was receiving
for sea service when detached, and not at the rate of his pay. for shore
service when he was actually discharged.
41 C. Cl., 256, affiried.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Van Orsdel and Mr. John Q.
Thompson, Special Attorney, for appellant:
During the interval of time between. December 17, when
claimant was detached from the battle ship Massachusetts,
and December 22, when he was discharged from the service,
a period of five days, he was not performing sea service, but
was on leave or waiting-orders pay;, and therefore was entitled to. compensation :during such time at the rate of $1,000
a year..
The language of the statute is "shall be paid two months'
extra pay," evidently meaning the same pay he would have
recei.ved if he had remained in the sare' service two months
longer, and if the claimant had remained in the same service

