BACON v. WALKER.
Syllabus.

204 U. S.

before the United States courts, "in any manner relative to
the fult and complete execution of the laws of the Choctaw.
Nation by the sheriffs of each and every county in the. confiscation of property of non-citizens who are now occupying -lands
or buildings or who may hereafter occupy, not in conformity
with the laws of the Choctaw Nation."
Certainly there is nothing in that act which in any way
ratifies or purports to ratify an illegal sale by a sheriff assuming
to act under the law providing for sales by sheriffs of buildings
erected on land outside the right Of way of the railroad cornpany. It appropriates money to defend the Nation in suits
.relative to the full. and complete execution of the laws and
nothing else; not a suspicion of any ratification of an illegal
sale under those laws.
The record shows a gross violation of the act under which
the sale Was made, and an entire absence of any evidence showing a ratification of such act either by the principal chief, assuming he could ratify, or by the council of the Nation. The
case is not one in which any'cburt would strive to find a way
to uphold Such a proceeding.
Without going into*the other questions which arise, it:is
sufficient, to say that upon the ground above discussed the
decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is right.
Decree affirmed.

BACON v WALKER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME CO6RT OF. THE STATE OF IDAHO.
No. 147.

Argued January 10, 1907.-Decided February 4,4907.

'I'he police power oj" a State embraces regulations designed to promote the
-puiblic con venience or the general prosperity as well as those to promote
public healith, morals or safety; it is not confined to the suppression of
what is offensive,. disorderly or unsanitary, but extends to what'is for
tl-e gifeatest welfare of- the State.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
.Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

204 U. S.

Fixing in a police regulation, otherwise valid, .the distance from habitations
within which an occupation cannot be carried on is a legislative act with
which the courts can only interfere in a case clearly of abuse of power.
A classification 'in grazing countries of sheep, as distinguished from other
cattle, is not unreasonable and arbitrary in a regulation regarding the
use of public lands within the 'meaning of the equal protection clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Sections 1210, 1211, Revised Statutes of Idaho, prohibiting the, herding..
and grazing of sheep on, or within two miles of, land or processory claims
of pcrsons other thin the owner of the sheep, having been construed by
the highest court of that State as n6t affecting the right of the owner
of sheej to graze them on his own lands but only on the public domain,
is.not uconstitutional as depriving the owner of sheep, of his property
without due process of law because he cannot pasture them on public
domain, or'asan arbitrary and unreasonable discrimination against the
owners of sheep, as distinguished from other cattle, and is a proper and
reasonable exercise 6f the police power 'of the State.
81 Pac. Rep. 155, affirfiied.
THE

facts are stated in the.opinion.

Mr. S. M. Stockslager, 'With whom' Mr. W. E. Borah, Mr.
Frank T. WyrMan and Mr. John C. Rice were on'the briefs,
for plaintiffs 'in error. in this case and in No. 81 argued simultaneously herewith: I
It is'the duty of the couirts to prevent the exercise of arbitrary and unreasonable discriminations made under the -clor
of the police power, though that power from its nature is not
susceptible of any exact definition or limitation. It is well
settled that the courts will interfere in proper cases. Gulf,
Col: & S: F. Ry. v. Elli§, 65 U. S. 150; Lawton v. Steele, 152
U. S. 133.
The exercise of the police power must be confined to the
imposition of those restrictions and burdens which ,are necessary to promote the general welfare, that is,. to prevent the
infliction of any public injury. Tiedman on State and Federal Control of Persons & Property, 505. The, restraint must
not be disproportionate "to..the danger. Freund on- Police
Power,. 138, 482, 705.
i See p. 320, post.

-

BACON v. WALKER.
204TU. S.'

Opinion of the Court.

limitations of the police power in view, it will
be With
seen these
that the
statute in quiestion transcends the rightful
exercise of that power.. The legislature has discriminated
against a: long established and legitimate industry and has
assumed the right to arbitrarily give to the owner of a dwelling
house'on a -possessory claim the right to recover damages for
herding or grazing sheep upon the lands of the United States,
in which he has no.claim whatever.
As said in Bedford v. Houtz, 133 U. S. 320, there is an. implied license, growing out of, long-established custom to use
the public lands of the United States for the gra'zing of domestic animals. See Kelly v. Rhoades, 188 U. S. 1.
When a calling is not dangerous, it cannot be subjected to
any police regulation whatever which does not fall within the
power of taxation. Freund on Police Power, supra. 'Herding
or grazing of sheep is not dangerous to the public, either di'rectly or indirectly.
There is no reason for the arbitrary limit of two miles, and
it' imposition is therefore unjust and unlawful. New York
Sanitary. Utilization Co. v. New York, 61 N. Y. App. 106, cited
in 8 Cyc., 1061.
There is no proper reason for the discrimination between
the herding of sheep and the grazing or feeding of; cattle,
horses, hogs or'poultry. This discdrimination is .not basedon
any difference which would make the sheep industry amenable to any restrictions, -under the police, power, not imposed
upon the -others named. McGehee on Due Process of Law,
306; Yick Wo. v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356; Plessy v. Ferguison,
163 U. S., 550There was nd appearance or brief for defendant in error
in this case or in No. 81.
MR. JUSTICE MOKENNA

delivered 'the opinion of the c'ourt.

This action involves the validity, under the Constitution

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

of the United States, of the following sections of the Revised
Statutes of the State of Idaho:
"Sme. 1210. It is not lawful for any person owning or having
charge of the sheep to herd the same, or permit them to be
herded on the land or possessory claims of other persons, or

to herd the same or permit them to graze within two miles
of the dwelling house of the owner or owners of said possessory
claim.
"SEc. 1211. The owner or agent of such owner of sheep

violating the provisions of the last section, on complaint of
the party or parties injured before any justice of the peace
for the precinct where either of the interested parties may
reside, is liable to the party injured for all damages sustained;
and if the trespass be repeated, is liable to the party injured
for the second and every subsequent offense in double the
amount of damages sustained."
Defendants in -error under the provision of those sections
brought this action, in the Justice's Court of Little Camas
Precinct, Elmore County, State of Idaho, for the recovery of
$100 damages alleged to have accrued to them by the violation by plaintiff in error of the statutes, and obtained judgment for that sum. The judgment was successively affirmed
by the District Court, for the county of Elmore and the Supreme Coirt 'of the State. 81: Pac. Rep. 155. The case was
then brought here.
It was alleged in the complaint of defendants in error; who
were plaintiffs in the trial court, that plaintiff in error caused
his sheep, about three thousand in number, to be herded upon
the public lands within two miles of the, dwelling house of
defendant' in' error. The answer set up that the complaint
did "not state a cause of action other than the violation of
sections 1210 and 1211 of the Revised Statutes of the 'State
of I daho," and that said sections were in violation of the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States. The specifications of the grounds of the unconstitutionality. of those sections were in the courts below and are

BACON v. WALKER.
204 U.S.

Opinion of the'Court.

in this court: (1) that plaintiff in error has an equal right to

.pasture with other citizens upon the public.domain and that
by imposing damages on him for exercising that right, he is
depriVed of his property without due process of law; (2) that a
discrimination is arbitrarily and unlawfully made. by the statutes between citizens. engaged in sheep grazing on the public
domain and citizens engaged in grazing other classes of stock.
These grounds do. not entirely depend upon. the same considerations. The first denies- to the.State any power to limit
or 'regulate the. right of pasture asserted to exist- the other
concedes such power, and attacks it only as it discriiminates
a ainst the. grazers of sheep. .We'speak only of the right to
pasture, because plaintiff in error does not show that he is
the owner of the land upon which his sheep grazed, and what.
rights owners pf .land may have to -attack the statute we
put out of -consideration. •Hatch v,. Reardon, ante, 'p. 152.
.But. we'may remark- Shat the -Supreme Court of Idaho said
in Swieet"v...B'allentyne, 8 Idaho, .431, 440: "These statutes
-[sections 1210, 1211, quoted above] were not intended to prevent owners from grazing sheep upon their own lands, although
situated within two miles of the dwelling of another." Is it
true, therefore, even-if it be conceded that there is right or
.license to pasture upon the public domain, that-the State may
not limit or regulate the right or license? Defendafits in error
have, an equal. right with plaintiff in Crror, and the State has
an interest in the accommodation of those rights. It may
even have an interest above such a.ccbmmodation. The'laws
and policy of a State may be framed and shaped to suit its.conditions of climate and' soil.. 'Illustrations' of. this power are
afforded -by recent- dcisions of this court In Clarlk v. Nash,
198 U. S.- 361, a use-of property, was- declared to be 'public
which, independer t' of' the conditions' existing in .the State,
might .otherwise have been considered as private. So'also in
Strickley v. Highland Boy Gold Mining Company, 200 U. S.
527. In the first -case there was a recognition of- the-,powver
of the State to deal wNiti and. accommodate' its laws to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

,conditions of an arid country and the necessity of irrigation
to its development. The second was the recognition of the
power of the State to work out from the conditions existing
in a mining region the largest welfare of its inhabitints. And
again,-.in Offield v. The New York, New Haven & Hartford
Railroad Company, 203 U. S. 372, the principle of those cases
was affirmed and applied to conditions entirely dissimilar, and
it was declared that it was competent for a State to provide
for the compulsory transfer of shares of stock in a corporation,
the ownership- of which stood in the sway of the increase of
means of transportation, and the public benefit which would
result from that. Of pertinent significance is the case of
Ohio Oil Company v. Indiana, 177 U. S. 190. There a statute
of the State of Indiana was attacked, which'regulated the
sinking, maintenance, use and operation of natural gas and
oil wells. The object of the statute was to prevent the waste
of gas. The defendants in the action asserted against the
statute the 'ownership of the soil and the familiar principle
that such ownership carried with it the right to the minerals
beneath and the consequent privilege of mining to extract
them. The principle was conceded, but it was declared inapplicable, as ignoring the peculiar character of the substances,
oil and gas, with which the statute was concerned. It was
pointed out that those substances, though sit iated beneath
the surface,. had no 'fixed sifts, but had the power of selftransmission. No one owner, it was therefore said, could
exercise his right to extract from the common reservoir in
which the supply was held without, to an extent., diminishing
.the source of supply to which all the other owners of the surface
,hqd to exercise their rights. The waste of one owner, it was
further said, caused by a reckless enjoyment of his right,
operated upon the other surface owfiers. The statute was sustainecd as a constitutional exercise of the power of the State;
on account of the peculiar nature of the right and the objects
upon which it was exerted, fbr the pdrpose of protecting all
of the collective owners.

BACON v. WALKER.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

These cases mike it unnecessary to consider the argument
of counsel based upon -what they deem to be the limits of the
police power of a State, and their contention that the statute
of Idaho transcends those limits., It- is enough to say that
they have fallen into the error exposed in Chicago, Burlington
& Quincy Railway Company v. Drainage Commissioners, 200
U. S. 561, 592.* In. that case we rejected tile view that the
police power cannot be exercised for the general Wvell-being
of the community. That power, we said, embraces regulations designed to promote the public convenience or the general prospeiity, as well as regulations designed to promote
the public health, the public morals or the public safety. Wedo not enter, therefore, into the discussion whether the sheep
industry is legitimate and not offensive.. Nor need we make
extended comment on the two-mile limit. The selection of
some limit is a legislative power, and it is only against the
abuse of the power, if at all, that the courts may interpose.
But the abuse must be shown. It is not shown by quoting
the provision which expresses the limit. The mere distance
expressed shows nothing. It does not display the necessities
of a settler upon the public lands. It does not display what
protection is needed, not from one sheep or A few sheep, but
from'iarge flocks of sheep, or the relation of the sheep, industry
to other industries. These may be the considerations that
induced the statutes, and we cannot pronounce ,thernm insufficient on surmise or on the barren letter: of the statute. 'We
may refer to iiers v.'Johnson, 7 Idaho,,: 798, and Sweet v.
Ballentyne, 8 Idaho, 431, for a statement of the practical
problem which confronted the legislature and upon what considerations it was solved. We think, therefore, that the.statutes of Idaho are not open to the'objepction that they take the
propertp of. plaintiff in error. without due process of. law, and
pass to the consideration .of the charge ,that they make an
unconstitutional digcrimination against the 'sheep industry.
Counsel extend' to this contention the conception of the
police power which we'have just declared to be erroneous, and,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Oinion of thd Court.

204 U. S.

enumerating the classes discriminated in favor of as cattle,
horses, hogs, and even poultry, puts to question. whether in
herding or grazing sheep "there is more danger to the public
'health, comfort, security, order or morality' than the classes
of animals' and -fowls above 'enumerated." ."What," counsel
ask,, "are the dangers to the public growing out of. this industry that do not a'plly'with equal force to the others? Does
.the herding or grazing of sheep necessarily, and because of -its
unwarrantable charactei', work an injury to the public? And,
if dangerous in any degree whatever, are the other-classes-which
are. omitted and in effect,excepted entirely free 'from such
danger, -or do such excelptions tend to reduce the general danger?" Contemplating the law. in the aspect expressed in-these
questions, counsel are Unable to see in it anything but. unreasonable and arbitrary discrimination. *This view of the
l)ower of the State, however, is too narrow.. That power is not
confined, as we have said, to the suppression of what is offensive,
disorderly or unsanitary. It extends to so dealing with the
conditions which exist in the State as to bring out. of them
the greatest welfare of its people'. This is the principle of the
cases which we have cited.
But the statutes. have justification on the grounds which
plaintiff in error urges as determinative, and on those grounds
they were sustained by the Supreme Court of the State. They
were deliberate enactments, made. necessary by and addressed
to the conditions which existed. They first (1875) had application only to three counties, while Idaho was a Territory.
They were subsequently extended to two other counties and
were made general in 1887.. They were continued in force by
the state constitution. Sweet v. Ballentyne, supra. The court
said in the latter case:
"It is a matter of public history in this State that conflicts
between sheep owners and cattle men and settlers were of
frequent occurrence, resulting in violent breaches of the peace.
It is also a matter of public history- of the State that sheep are
not only able to hold their own on the public ranges with other

BACON v. WALKER.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

livestock, but. will *in the end drive other stock off the range,
and, that the herding of sheep upon certain territory is an
appropriation of it almost as fully as if it was actually inclosed
by fences, and this is especially true with reference to cattle.
The legislature did not deem it necessary to forbid the running
at large of sheepaltogether, recognizing the fact that there
are in the State large areas of land uninhabited, where sheep
can range without interfering with the health or subsistence
of settlers or interrupting the public peace. The fact was also
recognized by the legislature that, in 6rder to make the settlement of our stliall isolated valleys possible, it was necessary
to provide some protection -to the settler against the innumerable bands of sheep grazing in this State."
And the court pointed out that it was not the purpose or
effect of the statutes to make discrimination between sheep owners and owners of otlier kinds of stock, but to secure
equality of enjoyment and use of the public domain to settler's
and cattle owners with sheep owners. To defeat the beneficent
objects of the statutes, it was said, by holding their provisions
unconstitutional would make of the lands 'of the State "one
immense sheep pasture," And further: "The owners of sheep
do not.permit them to roam at will, but they Are under the
immediate control of herders, who have shepherd -dogs with
them, and wherever they graze they, take full possession of
the range as effectually as if the laras were fenced .,
It is a matter of 'common observation and experience that
sheep eat the herbage closer to the ground than cattle or horses
do, and, their hoofs being sharp, they devastate and kill the
growing vegetation wherever they graze for any considerable
time. In the language of one of the witnesses in this case
'Just as, soon as a band of sheeppasses over everything disappears, the same as if fire passing over it,.' It is a part of the.
public-history of this State that the industry of raising cattle
has been largely destroyed by the encroachments of innumerable bands of sheep. Cattle will not graze, and Will not thrive,
upon lands where'sheep are grazed to any great extent."

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

These remarks require no-addition. They exhibit the con-,
ditions which existed in the State, the cause and purpose of
the statutes which are assailed, and vindicate thein from the,
accusation of being an arbitrary and unreasonable discrimination against the sheep industry.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BltEwER and Mit. JUSTICE PECKHAM dissent.

BOWN v.; WALLING.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TEE STXTE OF IDAHO.
No. 81.

Argued January 10, 1907.--Decirled.February 4, 1907.

Decided on authority of Bacon v.
9 Idaho, 740, affirmed.
THE

Valker, ant, p. 311.

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. S. Ill. Stockslager, with whom Mlr. W. E. Borah, Mr.
Frank T. Wyman and Ar. John C. Rice were on the brief, for
plaintiff in error.'
There was no appearance or brief filed for defendant in error.
MR.

JUSTIcE

McKEN,£ delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought in the Probate Court in. and for
Elmore County, State of Idaho,"for the sum of two hundred
dollars' damages sustained by defendant in error by the violation by plaintiffs in error of sections 1210, 1211 of the Revised
Statutes of Idaho. 'The amended complaint alleged that the
offense was committed by plaintiffs in error by wrongfully
and negligently permitting and allowing their sheep to graze
1 For abstract'bf argument

ee ante, p. 312.

