OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

204 U. S.

IGLEHART v. IGLEHART.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 158.

Argued January 15, 16, 1907.-Decided February 25, 1907.

In a general code such as that of the District of Columbia a later section
does not nullify an earlier one as being the later expression of legislative
will; the whole code should, if possible, he harmonized and to that end
the letter of a particular section may be disregarded in order to accomplish the plain intent of the legislature.
Section 669 of the Code of the District of Columbia making it lawful for
cemetery associations incorporated under the laws of the District to
hold grants in trust without time limitations is not nullified by § 1023
limiting trusts to one life in b~ing and twenty-one years thereafter.
In pursuance of the general comity existing between States- a trust permitted by the laws of the District of Columbia in favor of cemetery
associations incorporated under the laws of the District will be sustained
in favor of a cemetery association of a State which has power under the
laws of that State to hold property under similar conditions.
26 App. D. C. affirmed.

is an appeal from a decree of the Court of Appeals
of the District of Columbia, affirming a decree of the Supreme
Court of the District construing a will. 26 App. D. C. 209.
The bill was filed by the executor of the will of Annie E. I. Andrews, who was a resident of the District at the time of her
death, and whose will was there duly admitted to probate
March 28, 1904. The Supreme Court held that all disputed
provisions of the will were valid and entered a decree to that
effect, which was affirmed by the Court of Appeals, on an
appeal taken by these appellants separately from the other
parties defendant, by leave of the Supreme Court of the
District. All necessary persons were made parties to the suit.
The deceased left an estate of about $10,000, of which $3,000
consisted of real estate in the city of Washington.
The disputed portions of the will are clauses one, ten and
twelve, and they are set forth in the margin.1
THIS

I First, I give, devise and bequeath unto the Greenwood Cemetery Company, of Brooklyn, New York, as trustees, my real property, consisting of a

IGLEIfART v. IGLEHART.
204 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

J. Howard Iglehart, the executor, is the son of 'a deceased
brother of the testatrix (mentioned in the first clause of
the will), and the two appellants are, respectively, her brother
and sister.The executor, in his bill, alleged his readiness to distribute
the estate as directed by the will, but he said that some of
the heirs at law disputed the validity of some of its provisions,
and hence his appeal to the court for a construction of those
clauses.
The grounds of the dispute are stated to be that the trusts
created in the first and twelfth clauses of the will are void,
as in violation of the statute of the District of Columbia
prohibiting perpetuities and restraints upon alienation. Sec.
1023, Code D. C. The devise of the real estate is alleged to
be void on that ground, as is also the residuary bequest to
the cemetery company, while the direction to erect a monuhouse and lot, known and designated as house No. 88 M. street, northwest,
in the city of Washington, District of Columbia, to be held by them in trust
for and to the use of my brother, J. H. Iglehart, and his wife, Jennie Iglehart, of Baltimore, Maryland, during their life or the life of either of thcr;
provided, they shall keep the said property in repair and pay the taxes
thereon. At their death, or upon their failure to comply with the condition
to keep said property in repair and pay -the taxes thereon, it is my will
and desire that'the said property shall be sold, and the proceeds of such
sale shall be invested in United States securities, the interest or income
from such said investment to be used by the Greenwood Cemetery Company, aforesaid, as trustees, for the purpose of keeping the Andrews cemetery
lot in perpetual good order and condition.
Tenth, It is my will, and I order and direct that five thousand dollars
be raised out of my estate to. be expended in erecting a suitable monument
at the grave of my dearly beloved husband E. L. Andrews, in Greenwood
cemetery, Brooklyn, New York.
Twelfth, It is my will, and I order and direct that all the rest and residue
of my estate, real, personal, and mixed, wheresoever it may be found, and
of whatsoever it may consist, shall be converted into cash, and said cash
invested in United States securities, the interest and income from such
securities shall be used by the said Greenwood Cemetery Company, of
Brooklyn, New York, as trustees, in addition to and together with the
trust fund hereinbefore mentioned in clause one of this my last will, for
the purposes and to the benefit of beautifying and keeping the aforesaid
Andrews' cemetery-lot in perpetual good order and condition,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellants.

204 U. S

ment, as provided in section ten of the will, it is alleged,
must fall with the destruction of the trust, as it is part of
the general scheme of the will, and is inseparable from the
trust provisions. The executor submitted the questions
to the court and did not appeal from the original decree nor
from the decree of affirmance by the Court of Appeals, and
he now asks that this court should make proper provision for
'his protection and that of the estate, in regard to the costs
involved by the contention between the defendant and the
appellants.
Mr. Andrew Wilson and Mr. Noel W. Barksdale for appellants:

As the will creates a future estate, suspending
the power
of absolute alienation of property beyond life or lives in being
and twenty-one years, it is in restraint of alienation and a
perpetuity, and, therefore, void in its creation. Piper v.
Moulton, 72 Maine, 155; Mcllvain v. Hockaday (Texas),
81 S. W. Rep. 54; Corle's Estate, 61 N. J. Eq. 409; Sherman v.
Baker, 20 R. I. 446; Kelly v. Nichols, 17 R. I. 306; Hartson v
Elden, 50 N. J. Eq. 522; Read v. Williams, 125 N. Y. 560;
Coit v. Comstock, 51 Connecticut, 352; Fite v..Beasley, 80
Tennessee, 328; Detwiller v. Hartman,37 N. J. Eq. 347; Church
Extension v. Smith, 56 Maryland, 362.
The validity of the bequest and devise is to be determined.
by the laws of the District of Columbia.
The validity of a devise, as against the heirs at law, depends upon the law of the State in which the lands lie, and
the validity of a bequest, as against the next of kin, upon
the law of the State in which the testator had his domicile.
Jones v. Habersham, 107 U. S. 174-179; Vidal v. Girard, 2
How. 127; Wheeler v. Smith, 9 How. 55; McDonough v. Murdoch, 15 How. 367; Fontain v. Ravenel, 17 How. 369; Perin v.
Carey, 24 How. 465; Lorings v. Marsh, 6 Wall. 337; United
States v. Fox, 94 U. S. 315; Kain v. Gibboney, 101 U. S. 362;
Rusell v. Allen, 107 U. S. 163.

IGLEHART v. IGLEHART.
204 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

Even though there is equitable conversion from realty to
personalty, yet the bequests will nevertheless fall within the
prohibition of the statute. Cruikshank v. Home, 113 N. Y.
337; In re Walkerly, 108 California, 627; Underwood v. Curtis,
127. N. Y. 537; Penfield v. Tower, 1 N. Dak. 216; Fifield v.
Van Wyck, 94 Virginia, 557; Harringtonv. Pier, 105 Wisconsin,
485; Read v. Williams, 125 N. Y. 560.
The doctrine of comity has no application, because to
recognize the foreign cemetery company would violate the
settled policy of the District of Columbia distinctly marked
by Congressional legislation.
The courts seem to be of one accord that comity will not be
extended when to do so would violate the public policy as
indicated by statute. Comity gives way where the established
policy of the legislature indicates to its courts a different
rule. Walworth v. Harris, 129 U. S. 364. Comity does not
permit the, exercise of a power by a corporation when the
policy of the State, distinctly marked by legislative enactment or constitutional provision, forbids it. McDonough v.
Murdoch, 15 How. 113; Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168, 181.
Courts out of comity will enforce the law of another State,
when by such enforcement they Will not violate their own
laws or inflict an injury on some one of their citizens, as these
courtesies are extended when they are not prevented by some
positive law of the State. Franzen v. Zimmer, 35 N. Y.
,Supp. 612. Mere comity can never compel courts to give
effect to laws of another State which directly conflict with
the laws of their own State and are contrary to its known
public policy. Wharton on Conflict of Laws, § 598.
A state statute granting powers and privileges tQ. corpdrations must, in the absence of plain inlications tpothe co trary, be held to apply to domesti,coilporatiofis only. United States v. Fox, 94 U. S. 315- Vanderpoel v. Gorman, 140
N. Y. 563; White v. Howard, 46 N. Y. 144; Matter of Balleis,
144 N. Y. 132; Whitcomb v. Robbins, 69 Vermont, 477; Falls v.
Savings Ass'n, 97 Alabama, 417; Holbert v. St. Louis R. R. Co.,
voL. cciv-3i

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellee.

1

204 U. S.

45 Iowa, 23; South Yuba v. Rosa, 80 California, 333; Rumbaugh v. Improvement Co., 106 N. Car. 461.
Section 669 of the Code, being inconsistent with Section 1023
and irreconcilable, the former is absolutely void.
The two sections cannot be harmonized, and the authorities
on statutory construction say that where there is an irreconcilable conflict in different sections of a code or of parts of the
same act, that the last in order of arrangement must prevail.
Sutherland's Statutory Construction, § 268; 26 Am. & Eng.
Ency. of Law, § 619; Hand v. Stapleton, 135 Alabama, 156, 162.
The will embodied one entire scheme composed of two interdependent parts: (a) The erection of a monument; (b) its
care and preservation. If the latter is invalid, the former
must fall with it.The rule is that if some of the trusts embodied in a will
are valid and some invalid, if they are so taken together as to
constitute an entire scheme so that the presumed wishes of
the testator would be defeated if one portion was retained
and the other portions rejected, then all the trust must be
construed together, and all must be held illegal and fall.
Tilden v. Green, 130 N. Y. 29-50; Lawrence v. Smith, 163
Illinois, 149, 165; In re Walkerly, 108 California, 627, 644;
Matter of Will of Butterfield, 133 N. Y. 473, 476; Holmes v.
Mead, 52 N. Y. 332, 345; Knox v. Jones, 47 N. Y. 389, 398.
Mr. Walter V. R. Berry and Mr. Hugh B. Rowland, with
whom Mr. Benjamin S. Minor and Mr. Charles H. Stanley
were on the brief, for appellee:
Under the statutes in force in the District of Columbia
and in the State of New York, and under the general doctrine
of comity obtaining among the States, clauses one and twelve
of the will are valid. D. C. Code, Chap. XVIII, sub-chap. VI,
sec. 669; Chap. 156, Laws 1839, N. Y.; Christian Union v.
Yount. 101 U. S. 352; McDonough's Exrs. v. Murdoch, 15
How. 367.
The Greenwood Cemetery takes* the interest in the real

IGLEHART v. IGLEHART.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

estate as personal property, and takes a vested interest as
legatee, under the doctrine of equitable conversion. Cropley *v. Cooper, 19 Wall. 167; Peter v. Beverly, 10 Pet. 532;
Craig v. Leslie, 3 Wheat. 563; Given v. Hilton, 95 U. S. 591;
Holcomb v. Wright, 5 App. D. C. 76.
Where the testator directs a fund to be transmitted to
another jurisdiction and there applied to a trust, the courts
of the testator's domicile will uphold the bequest when the
trust is lawful in the jurisdiction where it is to be performed,
even though it could not be enforced in the jurisdiction of
testator's domicile. Mount v. Tuttle, 2 Lawyers' Rep. Ann.
(N. S.) 409, 410, 430, 433.
A general code is one system of law and sections dealing
with the same subject are construed as one statute. Groff v.
Miller, 20 App. D. C. 353, 357; Petri v. Com. Bank, 142 U. S.
644; Bernier v. Bernier, 147 U. S. 242.
The will is clear as to the intention to create a trust fund.
The bequest of the interest or produce of a fund without
limitation as to the extent of its duration is a bequest of the
fund itself. Garrett v. Rex, 6 Watts, 14; Appeal of Pa. Co.
for Ins. on Lives, 83 Pa. 312; Collier v. Collier, 3 Ohio St. 369;
Millard'sAppeal, 87 Pa. 457; Craft v. Snook, 13 N. J. Eq. 121;
Gulick v. Gulick's Ex'r., 27 N. J. Eq. 498; Snyder v. Baker,
5 Mackey, 443; Roper on Legacies, vol. 2, p. 1476.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The first inquiry is in regard to the law existing in the
District of Columbia upon the subject of trusts of this nature.
There are two sections of the Code of the District of Columbia
(sections 669 and 1023) which are involved in the- question
before us. Section 669 (sub-chapter 6, relating to "Cemetery
Associations," of chapter 18, relating to "Corporations")
provides in substance that it shall be lawful for cemetery
associations incorporated under the laws of the Distriet to,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

take and hold any grant, etc., upon trust, to apply the income
thereof under the direction of the association for the embellishment, preservation, renewal or repair of any cemetery lot
or any tomb or monument or other structure thereon, according to the terms of such grant, and the Supreme Court
of the District is given the power and jurisdiction to compel
the due performance of such trusts, or any of them, upon a
bill filed by the proprietor of any lot in such cemetery for that
purpose. Section 1023 (sub-chapter 1 of chapter 24, relating to "Estates") provides that except in the case of gifts
or devises to charitable uses, every future estate, whether
of freehold or leasehold, whether by way of remainder or
without a precedent estate, and whether vested or contingent,
shall be void in its creation, which suspends the absolute
power of alienation of the property, so that there shall be no
person or persons in being by whom an absolute fee in the
same, in possession, can be conveyed, for a longer period
than during the continuance of not more than one or more
lives in being and twenty-one years thereafter. The provisions of the section are (at the end of the sub-chapter)
made applicable to personal property generally, except where
from the nature of the property they are inapplicable.
The appellants assert that section 669 is nullified by section 1023. They urge that the last section, being the last
expression of the legislative will, and being inconsistent with
section 669, the last section must prevail. This, although
section 669 makes special provision in regard to trusts of this
nature and permits their creation, yet because the latter
section does not in terms make exception of the trusts provided for in the earlier section, these trusts, it is urged, are
thereby prohibited.
This is not a case for the application of that doctrine, which
is in any event very seldom applicable. The true rule is to
harmonize the whole code, if possible, and to that end the
letter of any particular section may sometimes be disregarded
in order to accomplish the plain intention of the legislature.

IGLEHART v. IGLEHART.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Effect must be given to all the language employed, and inconsistent expressions are to be harmonized to reach the real
intent of the legislature.

Petri v. Commercial National Bank,

142 U. S. 644, 650; Bernier v. Bernier, 147 U. S. 242, 246;
Groff v. Miller, 20 App. D. C. 353, 357. These two sections
can be easily harmonized, and the undoubted intention of
the legislature be thus carried out, by considering the latter
section as applying to cases other than those specially provided for in section.669. That section must be regarded as
in full force.
Assuming, however, that the section is not affected by section 1023, it is then contended by the appellants that section
669 does not apply to this case, and that the trusts are not
valid as a gift or devise to a charitable use within the exception mentioned in section 1023. It may be assumed
for the purposes of this case that the gifts contained in the
first and twelfth clauses of the will do not constitute a valid
trust for a charitable use, Jones v. Habersham, 107 U. S.
174, 183, and that those clauses would be illegal if dependent
upon the exception mentioned in that section. But the
earlier section is referred to for the purpose of ascertaining
the policy of Congress within the District upon the general
subject of trusts for the perpetual maintenance of cemetery
lots, and of monuments and other structures erected therebn.
That policy, as indicated in the section, permits in the
District exactly what is provided for in this will, namely,
a trust to a cemetery (incorporated) association for the maintenance of a lot and a monument in perpetual good order
and condition.
The law in New York in regard to Greenwood Cemetery
permits the same kind of a trust. Section 6 of Chapter 156
of the laws of New York for 1839, passed April 11, 1839.
The law of the District of Columbia, where the testatrix died
and where the property was situated, and the law of the
State of New York, where the moneys are to be applied by a
corporation created by the laws of that State, concur in per-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opiniori of the Court.

204 U. S.

mitting such trusts as are created in thiswill, and under those
circumstances such a trust will be permitted by the courts
of the District to be carried out in the State of New York,
although the testatrix was domiciled in the District at -the
time of her death, and the funds to be applied to such trust
arise from property owned by her in the District at that time.
This 'is' in pursuance of the general comity, existing between
the States of the *Union, and under that ,the cemetery association can take and hold the property for the purposes
mentioned'in the will, which are permitted both by the law of
the District of Columbia and the law of the State of New York.
But it is contended that the law of the District prohibits
the. creation' of -such trusts and refuses to permit theM to be
carried out within that District, and that there is no rule of
-comnty which obtains in such ease by *hich these trusts
might be held valid when affecting property within the District, owned by. a, testator residing therein at the time of his
'death, even though the party to carry out the •terms is a
foreign corporation and the trust& are- to be carried out in
another -State. , This clafir is made upon the assertion that
section 669 of the code, even if in force at all, refers only to
domestic associations, and that foreign corporations not being
within the exception, receive no power from that section and
cannot take or. hold property situated in the District upon
these trusts.
It may be that section 669 referred. only- to domestic corporations, when the power was therein granted them to take
such gifts 'upon the trusts mentioned, and carry them out in
the District. The section is cited, as'has been already mentioned, for the purpose :of determining the general policy of
,Congress in relation to this class of trusts, and Whether, under
the law, trusts similar to those under discussion are permitted
•in the District. if so, then the result follows from the rule
of comity already stated, that a trust of that nature, permitted
in the Disirict, will not be interfered -with when it is to be
operative in a foreign State whose laws also permit it. The.

IGLEHART v. IGLEHART.
204. U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

statute is not relied upon as a direct grant to a foreign corporation of the right to carry out a trust in a foreign State regarding property situated in the District and owned at the
time of his death by a resident therein. If the statute granted
such a right, of course there would be no question of its validity,
nor would there be any in regard to comity.
Trusts of the same kind, although to be carried- out in a
foreign State by a foreign corporation in regard to property
within the District, cannot be said to violate any policy or
statute of the District,, so long as the statute permits therein,
grants on similar trusts, although to its own corporations.
The prohibition of section 1023 would not extend to such a
trust so provided for.
.Ever since the case of Bank of Augusta v. Earle, 13 Pet. 517,
this doctrine of comity between States in relation to corporations has been steadily maintained, and it has been recognized by this court in many instances. See, specially Cowell v.
Springs Co., 100 U. S. 55; Christian Union v. 'Yount, 101 U. S.
352. These cases cover as we think, the principle involved
herein.
In the opinion delivered in the Court of Appeals it was well
said that "it cannot be successfully contended that something which the District of Columbia permits to its own corporations is so far against its public policy that it will not permit
persons domiciled within its territory to devise their property
to be used for the same purpose by a foreign corporation
authorized by its own charter to receive and administer such
bequests." In our opinion the first and twelfth clauses of
the will are valid.
The objection to the tenth clause is based upon the assumption that the first and twelfth clauses are invalid, and
that the tenth clause is so interwoven with the first and twelfth
clauses that if they are pronounced void, the whole scheme
of the will falls, and the tenth clause goes down with it. Holding the first and twelfth clauses valid, the contention in regard
to the tenth clause also fails.

488

OCTOBER 'ILRM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

'The appellees also urge that by reason of the direction contained in the will to sell the real estate it thereby became
constructively converted into personalty at the time of the
testatrix's death, and that, regarding it as personalty, the

trusts created are still less open to any objection set up by the
appellants. Although the proVisions of the sub-chapter
containing section 1023 apply to personal property generally,
as well as to real estate, except where-from the nature of the,
property they are inapplicable, yet when it is seen that even
in regard to real estate granted to a domestic corporation for
'the purposes mentioned 'in thig will, a perpetuity may be
created, it seems to be still plainer, if possible, that it would
not be against the policy of the District, as evidenced by the
statute, to affirm the legality of a trust of this kind in relation
to -personal property. which is to be sold and the proceeds
taken to another State by a foreign corporation for the purpose
of administration in that State. In any aspect in which we
can view the case,.we think the disputed provisions of the will
are valid.
In .regard to costs, Jhe courts below -have charged the appellants with costs,' and we think the same rule should obtain
here. The executor may apply to the Supreme Court for such
allowance Out -of the fund as it may think is, under all the
circumstances, proper.
Judgment affirmed.

