DOYLE v. LONDON GUARANTEE CO.
204 U. S.

Argument for Doyle.

DOYLE v. LONDON GUARANTEE AND ACCIDENT COMPANY, LIMITED.
CERTIFICATE

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 155.

Argued January 11, 1907.-Decided February 25, 1007.

An order punishing for contempt made in the progress of the case, when
not in the nature of an order in a criminal proceeding is an interlocutory
order and to be reviewed only upon appeal from a final decree in the
case.
The Circuit Court of Appeals has no jurisdiction upon writ 'of error sued out
by defendants from an order of the Circuit Court adjudging them guilty
of contempt in disobeying an order for production of books and papers,
and also adjudging that they produce same and pay costs within
a specified period or that in default thereof they pay a fine and' be
committed.
Bessette v. W. B.'Conkey Co., 194 U. S. 324, followed and Matter of Christensen Engineering Co., 194 U. S. 458, distinguished.
Questions certified in 134 Fed. Rep. 125, answered.
THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court of appeals to review orders in contempt, are stated in
the opinion.

Mr. E. Clinton Rhoads; with whom Mr. John C. Bell was
on the brief, for Doyle:
There is no magic about a contempt case which forbids
Appellate Courts to rectify a wrong done by the lower court.
The only difficulty has been to find the proper machinery.
When the United States Circuit Courts of Appeal were established, their appellate jurisdiction included criminal cases.
As this proceeding in contempt is a criminal proceeding,
that court has jurisdiction. Bessette v. Conkey, 194 U. S.
324; Christensen case, 194 U. S.458; Alexander case, 201 U. S.
117.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for London Guarantee & Accident-Co.

204 U. S.

All cases of contempt are primarily criminal in their nature,
and are separabl& from any litigation to which they are incident.
All cases of disobedience to the orders of a court, which are
properly contempts, are criminal cases, and that the term
civil conterrtpt is properly applicable to cases which are in
substance executions, such as attachments for the payment
of money, fines which are merely compensatory in their nature, brders for the payment of alimony, and orders for the
payment of sums found to be due in probate courts and in
similar cases. New Orleansv. Steamship Co., 20 Wall. 387, 392'
Passmore Williamson case, 26 Pa. St. 9.
The appellate court has authority to relieve from a void
order. In re Chetwood, 165 U. S. 443; Commonwealth v.
Perkins, 124 Pa' St. 36.
A writ of error is the proper method of review. Bullock v.
West, 129 Fed. Rep.. 105; Bessette v. Conkey, 194 U. S. 324.
Mr. Thomas Raeb*urn White for London Guarantee and
Accident Company:
The Circuit Courts of Appeals have jurisdiction to review
the action of Circuit or District 'Courts by writ of error or
appeal only after final judgment in the court below. Act of
March 3, 1891, ch. 526,. 26 Stat. L. 828.
A final judgment or decree is one which leaves nothing
further to be done in the case except execution of the judgment of the court. Grant v. Phanix Life Ins. Co., 106 U. S.
429; St. Louis &c. Ry. Co. v. Southern Express Co., 108 U. S.
24; Robinson v. Belt, 56 Fed. Rep. 328.
It matters not that the question sought to be reviewed
involves an attack upon the jurisdiction of the lower court,
an appeal or writ of error cannot be considered until after
the final disposition of the case. McLish v. Roll, 141 U. S.
661.
Contempt proceedings are of, two classes, vindicatory and
remedial.

DOYLE v. LONDON GUARANTEE CO.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

In Bessette v. W. B. Conkey Co., 194 U. S. 234, this court
fully recognized the distinction between civil and criminal
cases. In re Nevitt, 54 C. C. A., 622; S. C., 117 Fed. Rep. 448.
Vindicatory contempt 'proceedings are the only ones reviewable on writ of error by the Circuit Courts of Appeals
prior to the termination of the mai n suit. Bessette v. Conkey,
Co., 194 U. S.-324; Matter of Christensen Co.,.194 U. S. 458;
Alexander v. United States, 201 U. S. 117; Bullock Co. -v.
Westinghouse Co., 129 Fed. Rep. 105.
Remedial contempt proceedings are a part of the main
suit,'and can bereviewed on writ of error or appeal only after
final judgment in the court below. Hayes v. Fischer, 102
U. S. 121; Bessette v. Conkey, 194 U. S. 324; Heinze v. Butte &
Boston Co.) 194 U. S. 632; King v. Wooten, 54 Fed. Rep. 612;
In re Nevitt,,117 Fed. Rep. 448.
MR.

JUSTICE

DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is here upon certificate from the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Third Circuit.. From the facts stated it appears that William J. Doyle-and James G. Doak were adjudged guilty of conteinpt of court in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. After
the bringing of the action, upon the petition of the London
Guarantee and Accident Company, Limited, the plaintiff below, the court made the following order:
"And now, June 25th, 1904, the court orders the defendants
to produce, within twenty days, in the office of the clerk of
said court, their pay sheets, time books, cash books and all
other books of original entry which contain information as to
the amount of compensation paid to employees of themselves
or of their subcontractors or of any other persons contemplated
in the contracts upon which suit is brought in this case during
the period of said contracts as sot forth in the petition filed."
After that order was made the certificate recites:
"Thereafter the plaintiff presented to the court a petition

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

.alleging disobedience by the defendants of the above order
and praying that an attachment issue against them for contempt of court. Thereupon the court granted a rule upon
the defendants to show cause why an attachment should not
issue against them for contempt of court by reason of their
violation and disobedience of said order. To this rule the
defendants filed an answer under oath, denying intentional
non-compliance with said order and stating that they were
not able to produce all the books and papers called for, because
upon a thorough search the absent ones could not be found
and averring their belief that they were accidentally lost or
by mistake were destroyed at a time when alterations were
made in their office and a removal of its contents to another
place occurred. Subsequently, to wit, on January 3d, 1905,
upon the hearing of the rule, the court gave and entered
judgment that the 'defendants are guilty of contempt in
disobeying the order referred to,' and further adjudged as
follows:
"If the defendants produce in the office of the clerk of the
Circuit Court. on or before January 15th, 1905, the ledger of
1902-4, the pay rolls or time sheets from March to May 28,
1903, and the cash book from May 28 to December 1, 1902,
or if they produce'the cash book alone, they are ordered to
pay no more than the costs accruing upon this motion, including the stenographer's chairges, on or before January 20,
or in default of such payment to suffer imprisomnent in the
jail of this county for the period of sixty days. If the foregoing books and papers are not produced on or before January
15, the defendants are ordered to pay a fine of two hundred
and fifty dollars, and also the cost accruing upon this motion,
including the stenographer's charges, on or before January 20,
or in default of such payment to suffer imprisonment in the
jail of this county for the period of sixty days."
A writ of error was allowed to the Circuit Court of Appeals.
Upon the facts stated the following question was certified to
this court:

DOYLE v. LONDON GUARANTEE CO.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"Has the Circuit Court of Appeals jurisdiction upon the
writ of error sued out by the defendants to review the above
recited judgment of January 5th, 1905, adjudging that the
defendants are guilty of contempt of court in disobeying the
above recited order of court of June 25th, 1904, and imposing
upon the defendants a fine of $250.00 on the specified conditions and terms?"
Cases involving the right to review orders of the Federal
courts in matters of contempt have been so recently before
this court, that an extended discussion of the principles involyed is unnecessary. Bessette v. W. B. Conkey Company,
194 U. S. 324; Matter of Christensen Eng. Co., 194 U. S. 458;
Alexander v. United States, 201 U. S. 117.
In Bessette v. W. B. Conkey Co., supra, a question was certified here from the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Seventh
Circuit, involving the jurisdiction of that court to review
an order in a contempt proceeding finding the petitioner
guilty of contempt for violation of an orderof the Circuit Court,
and imposing a fine. In that case the subject underwent a
full examination and the previous cases in this court were
cited and reviewed. As a result of those decisions we deem
it settled that an order .punishing for contempt made in the
progress of the case, when not in the nature of an order in a
criminal proceeding, is regarded as interlocutory and to be
reviewed only upon appeal from a final decree in the case.
Matter of Christensen Eng. Co., 194 U. S. 458. In Bessette v.
Conkey Co., supra, it was pointed out that this court had no
jurisdiction to review judgments in contempt proceedings
criminal in their nature under the power to punish for contempt defined by Congress, 1 Stat. 83, and limited by the act
of March 2, 1831. 4 Stat. 49.7, Rev. Stat., sec. 725.
The right to review a judgment in a contempt proceeding
in the Circuit Court of Appeals was derived from the Circuit
Court of Appeals act, section 6, of which Mr. Justice Brewer,
speaking for the court in the Bessette case, said:
. " o when, by section 6 of the Court of Appeals
act, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

Circuit Courts of Appeals are given jurisdiction to review the
'final decisions in the District Court and the existing Circuit Courts in all cases other than those provided for in the
preceding section of this act, unless otherwise provided by
law,' and the preceding section gives to this court jurisdiction
to review convictions in only capital or otherwise infamous
crimes, and no other provision is found in the statutes for a
review of the final order in contempt cases, upon what satisfactory ground can it be held that the final decisions in
contempt cases in the Circuit or District Courts are not subject
to review by the Circuit Courts of Appeals? Considering
only such cases of contempt as the. present-that is, -cases
in which the proceedings are against one not a party to the
suit, and cannot be regarded as interlocutory-we are of the
opinion that there is a right of review in the Circuit Court of
Appeals."
And again, in the same case, it is said:
"As, therefore, the ground upon which a review by this
court of a final decision in contempt cases was denied no
longer exists, the decisions themselves ceased to have controlling authority, and whether the Circuit Courts of Appeals
have authority to review proceedings in contempt in the
District and Circuit Courts depends upon the question whether
such proceedings are criminal cases."
It therefore appears that the only right of review given to
the Circuit Court of Appeals in contempt proceedings ig derived from the act giving that court such right in criminal
cases. In the course of the discussion in the Bessette case it
is said that proceedings for contempt may be divided into
those which have for their purpose the vindication of the authority and dignity of the court, and those seeking to punish
parties guilty of a disregard of such orders as are remedial
in their character, and intended to enforce the rights of private
parties, to compel obedience to orders and decrees made to
enforce their rights and to give them a remedy to which the
court deems them entitled. And it is said that the one class is

DOYLE v. LONDON GUARANTEE CO.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

criminal and punitive in its nature, in which the Government
and the public are interested, and the other civil, remedial
and coercive in its character, in which those chiefly concerned
are individuals whose private rights and remedies are undertaken to be protected and enforced. From the discussion in
that case it clearly appears that proceedings which are criminal
in their nature and intended for the vindication of public
justice, rather than the coercion of the opposite party to do
some act for the benefit of another party to the action, are the
only ones reviewable in the Circuit Court of Appeals under its
power to take jurisdiction of and determine criminal cases.
In that case, and in the cases generally, where the right of
review has been recognized, the party prosecuted has been
other than one directly interested in the suit and brought
into it for the purpose of punishing a known violation of an
order in defiance of the authority and power of the court.
In such case the proceeding is entirely independent and its
prosecution does not delay the conduct of the action between
the parties to final decree. True it is that in some cases, as
in the Christensencase, 194 U. S. 458, the punishment for contempt which has been held reviewable is for a past act of a
party in violation of an order made for the benefit of the other
party. In that case one-half of the fine imposed went to the
United States, and was not intended for the enforcement of
an order infavor of a party, but rather for the vindication
of the authority of the court, and punishment for an act done in
violation of the court's order, and it was held that such judgment was in a criminal proceeding and reviewable in the Circuit Court of Appeals. In the present case, while it is true
that the fine imposed is not made payable to the opposite party,
compliance with the order relieves friom payment, and, in
that event, there is no final judgment of either fine or imprisonmeit.
"It may not be always easy," said the learned
justice,
speaking for the court in the Conkey case, "to classify a
particular act as belonging to either one of these two classes

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

[speaking of vindicatory and remedial proceedings]; it may
partake of the character of both. A significant and general
determinative feature is that the act is by one party to the
suit, in disregard of a specific order made in behalf of the
other; yet sometimes disobedience may be of such a character
and in such a manner as to indicate a contempt of the court
other than a disregard of the rights of the adverse party."
In view of the ptinciples which we deem settled by the
adjudications referred to, the question decisive of the present
case, therefore, is: Was the judgment rendered in the contempt proceeding criminal in its nature, and having for its
object the vindication of the authority of the court, or was it
one in the nature of a proceeding to enforce an order seeking
the protection of. the rights of the party to the suit for whose
benefit it was made?
The certificate does not fully indicate the character of the
action in which the order was made; yet sufficient appears
from which it is to be inferred that the action before the court
was one in which it was necessary for the protection of the
plaintiff that an inspection of the books and papers of the defendant be had. The defendants were required to produce
in the office of the clerk the time books, cash books, etc., containipg information as to the amount of compensation paid
to tle employ6s of themselves or subcontractors, or to any
other persons contemplated in the contracts upon which suit
was brought. The court deemed it proper, in view of certain
contracts between the parties, that these books and papers
be opened for inspection for the benefit of the plaintiff. And,
after hearing the parties, it was adjudged that if 'they produce
the books they should be liable only for the c6-ts of the proceedings or in- default of payment suffer imprisonment for a,
period of sixty days. And if the books and papers were not
produced on or before January 15 a fine of $250 and costs was
imposed or in default of payment thereof imprisonment in
the county jail for the period of sixty days. We think it is
apparent from a perusal of this order, in the light of the state-

DOYLE v. LONDON GUARANTEE CO.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ment of facts under which it was made, that its object and
purpose was to obtain information for the benefit of the
plaintiff in the suit to which the court found it entitled, and
that the punishment of fine and imprisonment, which was in
the alternative, was imposed, not for the vindication of the
dignity or authority of the court, in the interests of the public,
but in order to secure, for the benefit of the. plaintiff, a compliance with the order of the court as to the production of
the books. The case clearly falls within the class of contempt proceedings which ;re not criminal, in their nature,
and are not reviewable before final decree. The proceeding
is against a party, the compliance with the order avoids the
punishment, and there is nothing in the nature of a criminal
suit or judgment imposed for public purposes upon a defendant in a criminal proceeding.
It may be true, as said in argument, that unless the party
complies with the order he may be subjected to fine or imprisonment, and if the order cannot be reviewed until after
final decree it may come too late to be of any benefit to the
party aggrieved.' But the power to punish for contempt is
inherent in the authority of courts, and is. necessary to the
administration of justice and part of the inconvenience to
which a citizen is subject in a community governed by law
regulated by orderly judicial .proceduro. As has been said,
while the party may suffer imprisonment, "he carries the keys
of the prison in his own pocket," In re Nevitt, 117 Fed. Rep.
448, and by compliance with the order of the court may deliver himself from punishment.
But whatever the hardship, the question now before the
court is as to the authority of the Circuit Court of Appeals
to review judgments in contempt proceedings. In the Circuit Court of Appeals act, as construed by this court, the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of Appeals is extended to
the right to review judgments entered before final decree in
the action out of which the contempt proceedings arose where
the order is final and in a proceeding of a criminal nature.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

Beyond this, the jurisdiction of the court has not been carried,
and, in our opinion, no right of review exists in such a case

as is shown in the certificate before us, in advance-of a final
decree in the case in which the order was made.
It is urged by counsel for plaintiff in error that the only
authority of the Circuit Court to make an order for the production of books and papers in a common law action is under
section 724 of the ]Vevised Statutes of the United States, providing for the production of papers after issue joined. But
the question certified is not as to the lack of authority of the
Circuit Court to make the order for want of jurisdiction, a
question which might arise upon a habeas corpus proceeding,
but concerns the right of the Circuit Court of Appeals to review 'an order made in the Circuit Court, undertaking to
punish for contempt for violation of an order made in other
than a proceeding of a criminal character. The Circuit
Court of Appeals Act of 1891 gives no right to review other
than final judgments inthe District and Circuit Courts, except in injunction orders, as provided in ยง 7 of the act.
cLish v. Roff,\141 U. S.661, 668.
For the reasois stated we think the Circuit Court of Appeals
has no jurisdiction to review the judgment set forth in the
certificate, and the question certified will be answered in the
negative.
MR.

case.

JUSTICE PECKHAM

took no part in the decision of this

