UNITED STATES FIDELITY- CO. v. KENYON.

349

Statement of the Case.

204 U. S.

vice when he Was detached from his vessel, as he was appointed
to serve "only during the continuance of the exigency under
which their services were required in the existing war," and,
was entitled, in.the circumstances of the case, to extra ,ay on
the basis of that Which he was receiving when detached, as
we have said above.
Emory's case Was also considered by the court in the same
opinion, and the same conclusidn r6ached, and reference was
there made to-that case as reported in 19 Ct. Cl. 254.
The judgment of the Court of Claims was right, and it is

Affirmed.
MR.
case.

JUSTICE MOODY

took no part in the disposition of this

UNITED STATES FIDELITY AND GUARANTY COMPANY v. UNITED STATES FOR THE BENEFIT OF
KENYON.'
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF RHODE ISLAND.
No. 173.

Argued January 18, 1907.-Decided February 25, 1907.

Under the act of August 13, 1894, 28 Stat. 278, as construed in the light of
the act passed the same day, 28 Stat. 282, and of the act amending the
latter passedJanuary 24, 1905, 33 Stat. 811, in suits brought in the name
of the United States for the benefit of materialmen and laborers on bonds
given in pursuance of the act, the United States is a real litigant, and not a
mere nominal party, and the Circuit Court of the United States has jurisdiction of such suits without regard to the value of the matter in dispute.

By an act of Congress approved August 13, 1894, entitled
"An act for the protection of persons furnishing materials
and labor for the construction of public works," it was provided: "That hereafter any person or persons entering into

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Cse.

204 U. S.

a formal contract with the United' States for the construction
of any public building, or the prosecution and completion of
any public work. or for repairs upon any public building or
public work, shall be required before commencing'such work
to execute the usual penal bond, with good- and sufficient
sureties, with the additional obligations that such contractor
or contractors shall promptly make payments:, to all persons
supplying him or them labor and materials in the prosecution
of the ,work provided for in such contract; and any person
or persons making application therefor, and furnishing affidavit to the. Department under the direction of, which said
work is being, or has been, prosecuted, that labor or materials
.for, the prosecution of -such work has 'been supplied by him
or them, and payment for which has not been made, shall
be furnished with a certified copy of said contract and bond,
upon which said person or persons supplying such labor and
materials shall have a right of action, and shall, be authorized
to bring. suit in the name of the United States for his or their
.use and -benefit against said contractor and sureties and to
prosecute the same to final judgment- and execution: Provided,
That such action and its prosecutions shall involve the United~
States in .no expense. See.. 2. Provided that in such case thc
court in which such. action is brought is authorized to re,.quire proper security for costs in case judgment is for the defendant." 28 Stat.. 278, c. 280.
Onf the same.day, August 13, 1904, Congress passed an act
providing that whenever any recognizance, stipulation, bond
.or undertaking conditioned for the faithful performance of
any duty, or for doing or refraining from doing anything in
such recognizance, stipulation, bond or undertaking specified,
is by the laws of the United States required or permitted to
be given with one or more sureties, -it should be lawful to
accept such instrument from a corporation, having power to
guarantee the fidelity of persons holding positions of public
or private trust, and to execute and guarantee, bonds and
undertakings in judicial proceedings. The act provided that

UNITED STATES FIDELITY CO. v. KENYON.
204 U. S..

351

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

any surety company doing business under the provisions of
that act "may-be sued in respect thereof in any court of the
United States which has now or hereafter may have jurisdic.tion of actions or suits upon such recognizance, stipulation,
bond, or undertaking, in the district in which such recognizance,
stipulation, bond, or undertaking was made or guaranteed,
or in the district in which the principal office of such company
is.
located." 28 Stat. ยง 5, c. 282, p. 279.
Proceeding .under the above acts the United States, in 1899,,
made a written contract with one Churchyard to furnish labor,
materials, tools and appliances for the construction of a public
building, takihg from him the retuired bond with the United
States Fidelity and Guaranty Company, a corporation, as
surety.
The present action, brought in' the Circuit Court on that
bond, was by the United States, ".suing herein for the benefit
and on b6half of James S. Kenyon," who furnished a contractor for use in the construction of the proposed Government building, 'materials of the value of $66.05, for which
the latter neglected- and refused 'to pay. Damages to the
amount of $500 were claimed in'the'declaration.
The defendant, the United States. Fidelity and Guaraiity
Company, 'pleaded that it did not owo the-sum'dehanded.
The plaintiff introduced testimony, but the defendant introduce41 none and -it appearing upon the face of the declaration
that the value of the matter in dispute Was less than $2,000,
he m6ved that the actiou be dismised for want of jurisdiction in the Circuit Court. That motion was denied, and judgment for $206.47 was entered Against, the Fidelity and Guaranty Company for the use-and benefit of Kenyon. United
States v. Churchyard, 132 Fed'. Rep. 82.
Mr. Seeber Edwards, with whom Mr. George S. Cooper and
Mr. James E. Smith were on the brief, for plaintiff in error: The 'amount involved in this case being less than $2,000
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court must fail unless the act

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

204 U. S.

creating the right confers jurisdiction or unless this is a controversy in which the United States is plaintiff, all other
Federal jurisdictional requirements being -wanting.
The act of August 13, 1894, c: 280, does not confer jurisdiction of this case upon the Circuit Court.. Jurisdiction of a
case of this kind cannot bq conferred by implication. In the
absence of an express provision to that effect, jurisdiction must
fail unless it is given by some other statutory provision.
Liviigston v. Van Inqen, Fed. Cas. No. 8,420; Bank of U. S.
v. Deveaux, 5 Cranch, 61; Harrison v. Hadley, Fed. Cas.
N6. 6,137; Turner v. Bank' of N. America, 4 Dall. 8; United
State. v. Hudson, , 7 Cranch, 32; Mclntire v. Wood, 7 Cranch,
506; Sheldon v. Still, 8 How. 441.
This is not a controversy in. which the United States is
plaintiff within the contemplation of the statute which confers
on the Circuit Court jurisdiction irrespectively of the amount
involved.. Anniston Pipe,Co. v. National Surety Co., 92 Fed.
Rep. 549; Guaranty Co. v. Brick Co., 191 U. S. 416.
The rule has been to regard the real rather than the merely
nominal parties in determining .questions of 'jurisdiction.
Brown v. Strode, 5 Cranch, 303; McNutt v. -Bland, 2 How. 9;
Coal Co. v. Blatchford, 11 Wall. 172; Huff v. Hutchinson, 14
How. 586; Walden v. Skinner 101 U. S. 577; Wade v. Wortman, 29 Fed. Rep. 754; New Hampshire v. Louisiana, 108
U. S.76; Maryland v. Baldwin, 112 U. S.490, and other cases.
The identical question of jurisdiction has, already been decided in accordance with the contention of the plaintiff in
error in three exactly similar cases. United States v. Henderlong, 102 Fed. Rep. 2; United States v. Sheridan, 119 Fed.
Rep. 236; United States ex rel. Maxwell v. Barrett, 135 Fed.
Rep. 189.
,Mr. Edward D. Bassett for defendant in error:The United States is a real, not a nominal, party to, the action on the contractor's bond. It was 'the intention of Congress when this act was passed to aid the United States in

UNITED STATES FIDELITY CO. v. KENYON.
204 U. S.

353

Argument for Defendant in Error.

prosecuting public works, for by the terms of the act a iuaterialman was in-no danger of losing his money; hence would
furnish materials and labor lromptly. There was a general
scheme providing for the improvement and advancement of
public work, as is shown by siruilar legislation passed the same
(lay. 28 Stat. 278, 279.r
It must have been the intent of Congress that the action
provided for in the act should be brought in the courts of the
United States. Chap. 280 of the act of August 13, 1894, cxpressly makes the United States' the legal plaintiff. In suits 'at
law the legal interest alone is regarded in testing the jurisdiction of the United States courts. Colson v. Lewis, 2 Wheat.
377; Irvine v. Lowry, 14 Petersi 293; Dodge v. Tulley, 144 U. S.'
451. The provisions allowing suits to be brought on certified
copies of contract bonds and for security for costs, etc., should
be applicable only to courts subject to congressional legisla-.
tion.
The rights of the materialnan arising by virtue of an act
of Congress can only be enforced in the courts of the United
States. Martin v. Hunter, 1 Wheat. 330; Ellis v. Norton,
16 Fed. Rep. 4; United States v. Lathrop, 17 Johns. 3; New
Orleans &c. v. Mississippi, 102 U.. $. 135; Bock v. Perlins,
139 U. S.621.
The United States might at any time wish to.intervene in
suits of ,this kind, as in fact it did intervene in the case of
American- Surety Co. v. Lawreniceille Cement Co., 96 Fed.
Rlep. 25, which it could do only in the courts of.the Unit6d
States. In-that case the United States would sue in one court
and the materialman would-be obliged to..sue in.a state c6urt;
thus proper adjustment of the equities could not be accomrlished.
The United States has a, real, not merely a nominal, interest
'in the bond, 'and, the United States, having obtained the
benefit of material furnished and 'prompt service., permits
parties to be subrogated to its rights. American Surety Co.
V. Lawrenceville Cement Co., 96 Fed. Rep. 25; United States
VOL. CCIV-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinionof the Court.

"204U. S.

v. National Surety Co., 34 C1. C. A. 529; United States Y. American Surety Co., 200' U. S. 197.
Jurisdiction of the United- States courts has; been sustained
in analogous cases where the United States permits parties-,
where bonds are taken ia the. name of the United States to
bring suit upon them. Adler v. Newcombe, .2 Dill. 45; United
,States v. Davidson, 1 Biss. 433; Bock v. .Perkins,139 U. S. 628;
Howard v. United States &c., 184 U. S. 676, 681, following
Bock v. Perkins.'
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN,

after making the foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
This cas'e is here upon a certificate as to the original jilrisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United States of this action.
A Circuit Court of the United States; as, provided in thQ
Judiciary Act of 1887-88, may take original cognizance of
any suit, at common law or in equity, arising under the laws
of. the United States, if the value of the matter in dispute
exceeds two thousand dollars, exclusive of interest and costs.
'25 Stat. 433, c. 866. But if, within the meaning of that, act,
the United States is the plaintiff in the action, then jurisdiction
exists in aCircuit Court without regard to such value. United
States v. Sayward, 160 U. -S. 493; United States v. Shaw, 39
Fed. Rep. 433; United States v. Kentucky River Mills, 45 Fed.
Rep. 273; United States v. Reid, 90 Fed. Rep. 522.
The contention bf the Fidelity Company is that the Government, in this case', is to be deemed a nominal party only,
its name being used as plaintiff simply under the authority of
the above'act of 1894, c. 280. In support of this position our
attention is called to the following among other cases: Browne
v. Strode, 5 Cranch, 303; McNutt v. Bland, 2 How. 9, 14;
Maryland v. Baldwin, 112 U. S. 490; Stewart v. B. & 0. R. R.
Co., 168 U. S. 445.
Browne v. Strode was a suit, in the Circuit Court for the
District of Virginia in'which the persons named in the declara-

UNITED STATES FIDELITY CO. v. KENYON.
204 U. S.

355

Opinion bf the Court.

tion as plaintiffs were justices of the peace, all citizens of
Virginia. The suit was on a bond given by an executor in
conformity with a Virginia statute, and was for the recovery
of a debt due from the testator in. his lifetime to an alien, a
British subject. The . defendant was a citizen of Virginia.
This court held that the Circuit Court had jurisdiction, notwithstanding the justices and the defendant were all citizens
of the same State. This was, we assume, upon the ground
that the justices.were nominal parties only, -while the beneficial
party Was an alien, and the.defendant a citizen of the State
in which the suit was brought.
McNutt v., Bland was a suit upon a bond given by a sheriff
and running to the governor of the State, conditioned for the
faithful performance of the duties of his, office. The statute
authorized suit to be brought and prosecuted from time to
time at the cost of any party injured until the whole amount'
of the penalty was recovered., The suit was brought in the
name of 'the governor for the use of certain parties who were
citizens of New York. The court 'held flat the sheriff and
his sureties, citizens of Mississippi, could be'sued by the parties
in interest in their own name, .and that no sound reason could
be perceived "for denying the right of prosecuting the same
cause of action against the Sheriff and his sureties in the bond,
by and in the name of the' Governor, who is a purely naked
trustee for the party injured. He is a mere conduit through;
whom- the law affords a remedy to the person injured by the
acts or omissions of the Sheriff; the Governor cannot prevent
the institution or prosecution of the suit, nor has he 'any control over it.. The real and only 'plaintiffs are 'the plaintiffs
in the execution, who have a legal right to make the bond
9vailable for, their indemnity, which right could not be con-,
tested in a suit in a state court of Mississippi, nor in a Circuit
Court of the United States, in- any other mode bf. proceeding
"thah'on the Sheriff'ยง bond."
Maryland v. Baldwin, 112 U. S. 490, 491, was an action in
a state court on an administrator's bond in the name of the

,OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

State for the benefitof one Markley, a citizen of New Jersey,
the obligors in the bond being citizens .of Maryland. The
action was removed to, tic Circuit Court of the United States.
After referring to the cases of Browne v. Strode and. McNutt v.
Bland, the court said: "The justices of the peace in the one
case and the governor in the other were mere conduits through
whom' the law afforded a remedy to persons aggrieved, who
alone constituted the complaining parties. So in the present
case-the State is a mere nominal party, she could not prevent.
the institution of the action, nor control the proceedings or
the judgment therein. The case must be treated, so far as
the jurisdiction of the Circuit. Court of the United States is
concerne(l, as though Markley- vas alone namned as plaintiff;
ani the action was properly removed to that court."
Stewart v. Bait. & Ohio R.. R. Co. was an action against a
.ailroad company by an administrator to recover damages for,
the benefit of a widow whose husband's death was alleged to
have been caused by the negligence of the defendant company.
In the course of, the discussion of the, controlling questions in
that case the court. bserved in passing that "for'purposes of
jurisdiction in .the Federal courts regard is had to the real
rather than to the nominal party," and that even in an action
of tort '" the real party in interest is not the nominal plaintiff
but the party for whose benefit the recovery is sought."
This case (liffers from those just cited and stands, we think,
on exceptional grounds. The United States is not here a
merely nominal or forInal party. It has the legal right, -was
a principal party to the contract, and, in view of the words
of the statute, may be said to have an interest in the performance of all- its provisions. It may be that the interests of the
Government, as- involved in the construction of public works,
will be subserved if contractors for such works are able to
obtain materials and supplies promptly and with certainty.
To that end Congress may have deemed it important to assure
those who furnish such materials and supplies that the Government would exert its power directly for their protection. It

UNITED STATES FIDELITY CO. v. KENYON.
204 U. S.

357

Opinion of the Court.

may well have thought that the Government was under some
obligation to guard the interests of those whose labor and
materials would go into. a public building. Hence, the statute
required that, in 'addition to a penal bond in the usual form,
one should be taken that would contain the specific, special
obligation directly to the United States that the contractor
or contractors "shall promptly make payments to all persons
supplying him or them labor and materials'in the prosecution
of the work." The Government is a real party here because
the declaration opens, "The United Statesi suing herein for
comes
the benefit of and on behalf of James Kenyon ....
and complains," and alleges that the "defendants became and
are indebted to the United States for the benefit of the said
James S. Kenyon." In a large sense the suit has for its main
object to enforce that provision in the bond that requires
prompt payments by the contractor to materialmen and
laborers. The bond is not simply one to secure, the faithful
performance by the contractor of the duties he owes directly
to the Government in relation to the specific work undertaken
by.him. It contains, -as just stated,, a special stipulation with
the United States that the contractor shall promptly make
payments to all persons supplying labor and materials in the
prosecution of the work specified in his contract. ',This part
of the bond, as did its main provisions, ran to the United
States, and was therefore enforcible by suit in its name.. We
repeat, the present action may 'fairly be regarded as one by
the United States itself to enforce the specific obligation of
the contractor, to make prompt payment for labor and matefials furnished to him in his work. There is therefore a controversy here between the United States and the contractor
in respect of that matter. The action is none the less by the
Government as a litigant party, because only one of the persons who supplied labor or materials will 'get the benefit of
the judgment. We are of opinion, in view of the peculiar
language of the act of 1894 for the protection.'as well of the
United States as of all persons furnishing materials and labor

P.rOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

for the construction of publi6 works, that it is not an unreasonable construction of the 'words in the Judiciary Act of 188788, "or in which controversy the United States are plaintiffs or petitioners," to hold that the United States is a real
and not a mere nominal plaintiff in the present action, and
therefore that the Circuit Court had jurisdiction.
This interpretation of the statute finds some support in the
above act of 1894, c. 282, passed the same day as the act,
c. 280,. for the protection of materialmen and laborers, - and
which provides that suits against a fidelity or guaranty corporation, accepted as surety in any recognizance, stipulation,
bond or, undertaking given to the United State, may be sued
in any court of the United States having jurisdiction .of suits
upon sudh instrument. There is in that act no express limitation as to the amount involved in suits of, that. character in
either 'of the acts passed in 1894. Taking the two acts together, there is reason to say that Congress intended to bring
all suits, embraced by either act, when brought .in the name
of the United States, within the original cognizance of the
Circuit Courts of the United States, without regard to 'the
amount in dispute.. And this view as' to the intention of
Congress is strengthened by an examination of the act of
February 24, 1905; 33 Stat. 811, c. 778, which amends the
above statute of' 1904, c..:280. After providing that persons
Supplying labor and materials for the construction of a public
work shall have the right to intervene in any suit -brought
by the United States against the contractor, that act declares
that if no such suit'is br6ught by the Unitd States within six
months after completion of the 'contract, then the person
supplying labor or material to the. contractor "shall have a
right of. action and 'shall be and are hereby' authorized to
bring suit in the name of the United States in- the Circuit,
Court of the United -States. in the district in which said contract was to be performed- and executed, irrespective of the
amount in controversy in such suit, and' not elsewherei, fo his,
or their use and benefit, against said contractor and his sure-:

WESTERN TURF A.SSOCIATION v. GREENBERG. 359
204

U: S.

Syllabus.

ties, and to prosecute the same to final judgment and execution."

It is true that this statute can have no difect application
here, because the present action was instituted long prior to
its passage and after the trial court had decided the question
of the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court. As the act of, 19Q5
does not refer to cases pending .at its passage, the question of
jurisdiction depends Vpon the law as it was when the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was invoked in this action. Nevertheless, that act throws some light on the meaning of the act
of 1894, c. 280i for the protection of materialmen and laborers,,
and tends to sustain the view based on the latter act, namely,
that in suits brought in the name of the Government for their
benefit the United States is a real litigant, not a mere nominal
party, and that of such suits, the Government being plaintiff
therein, and having the legal right, the Circuit Court may take
original cognizance without regard to the value of. the matter
in dispute. There are cases which take the opposite view,
but the better view we thinkis the one expressed herein.
The judgment is
.,Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER dissents.

WESTERN TURF ASSOCIATION v., GREENBERG.
ERRORTO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORIIA.
No. 189.

Submitted January 29, 1907.-Decid d February 25, 1907.

Where defendant corporation in the court below questions the constitutionality of a state statute as an abridgment of its rights and immunities
and as depriv'ing it of its property without due process of law in. violation of the Fourteenth Amendment, and the judgment sustains the validity of the statute, this court has' jurisdiction to review the judgment on'
writ of error under ยง 709, Rev. Stat:

