CHICAGO v; MILLS.
Syllabus.

204 U. S.

within two miles of the -dwelling house of defendant in error
and upon the Government lands around his premises. The
defense, set up by demurrer, was, as iri Bacon v. Walker, ante,
p. 311, that those sections were void under the due process
and equality clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Constitution of the United States. The trial court tendered
judgment for the defendant in error, which was affirmed by
the District Court for Elmore County and by the Supreme
Court of the State. 9 Idaho, 740.
The case was argued with Bacon v. Walker et. al., and on
the authority of that case the judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER

and- MR.

JUSTICE PECKHAM

dissent.

CITY OF CHICAGO v. MILLS.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

FOR THE NORTHERN D1STR1IC
No. 286.

OF

THE UNITEI) STATES

OF ILLINOIS.

Submitted December 21, 1906.-D~ided February 4, 1907.

Althouqh the certificate of the Circuit Court may, not state exactly how
the jurisdictional question certified arose, this court can ascertain it
from -the record together with the opinion of the court below made a!
part thereof.
The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court must be determined with reference
to the attitude of the case at the date of-the filing of the bill.
Whqn a citizen of one State has a cause, of-action against a citizen of another
State which he may lawfully prosecute in a Federal court, his motive in
,
preferring a Iederal tribunal, in the- absence of fraud and collusion is
immaterial If it does not appear that there was any collusion within the meaning of
the ninety-fourth rule in equity for the purpose of conferring jurisdiction,
not otherwise existing, on the Circuit Court of the United States, that
court does not lose its jurisdiction of a suit brought by a non-resident
stockholder, aftey request to and refusal by the corporation, to enjoin

VOL. cciv-21,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellant.

204 U. S.

the enforcement of an ordinance against the corporation, and of which the
court would not have had jurisdiction had .the corporation been complainant, because subsequent events make it to the interest of the corporation
and its officers to make comm6n cause with the complainant stockholder.
An admission by complainant that' he expected the action tbo be brought
in the United States court does not necessarily show .collusion to confer
jurisdiction.
In this case held on the facts that no collusion between the stockholder
bringing the suit aqd the corporation rcfuing to bring it was shown
that deprived the Circuit Court of jurisdiction thereover.
143 Fed. Rep. 430 affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

,Mr. James Hamilton Lewis, :Mr. Henry'M. Ashton and Mr.
David K. Tone for appellant:
The undisputed evidence in this record shows that this suit
was collusively brought by Mr. Mills at the instigation of and
for the benefit of the People's Gas Light and Coke Company,
for fhe purpose of conferring jurisdiction upon a Federal court
in a case where such jurisdiction was otherwise wanting.
When it is sought to determine whether a suit is 'collusively
brought for the purpose of conferring jurisdiction upon a
Federal court, the question of friotive becomes an important
one.
Here there was every motive for instituting a collusive suit,.
for the. conduct of the People's Company, and its officers and
directors, prior to the filing of the bill of complaint by Mills,
clearly demonstrated that an unsuccessful effort had already
been made by them to confer upon a Federal court jurisdiction
of the litigation in question.
The fact that "in a case where the question of conferring
jurisdiction upon a Federal court by getting up a collusive
controversy is. involved, the burden of proof is upon the con,plainant, is established by the well-considered case of'Lehigh
Mining & Manufacturing Co. v. Kelly, 160 U. S. 337.
There is no force in the contention that there was a real
controversy between Mr. Mills and the directors of the People's
Company when the bill in the, cause was filed.

. CHICAGO v. MILLS.
204 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

The undisputed evidence in this record shows that the
corporate rights were being adequately protected by the
officers of the People's Company at the time the bill of complaint was filed, and therefore a stockholder had no standing
in the Federal court.
Independently of any question of collusion, the undisputed
evidence in this record shows that the corporate rights of the
*stockholders were adequately protecthd by the injunction in
force in the case of the People's Gas Light and Coke Company'
v. The City of Chicago,. then pending in this court. , No stockholder had any' standing in court to interfere, so long as no
irreparable injury was suffered or threatened, and certainly
not while the board of directors were proceeding in good faith
and in the exercise of their best judgment in protecting the
corporate rights. That provision is established by all the
authorities.
The general rule is that a majority of the stockholders of a
corporation, through its board of directors; are invested With
the sole power to institute suits in behalf of the corporation.
and to redress corporate-grieyances and to determine when
and in what courts such suits shall be instituted, and an-individual stockholder has no standing for any such purpose.
Hawes v. Oakland, 104 U. S. 450-457; Morawetz on Corp.,
ยง 238.
To the foregoing rule should be added the qualification that
where 'a corporation refuses to act and [hat refusal is arbitrary
and wrongful and without-just cause and a dpmand is made
upon the corporation to act and it still refuses, a stockholder
mnay institute a suit in his own name in behalf of himself and
other stockholders to protect corporate rights. The mere
allegation that a demand has been made upon the corporation
and it refuses to act is insufficiefit to authorize a stockholder
to begin suit. It must further appear that the refusal was
wrongful, constituting a breach of trust, for although the corporate officers may have acted erroneously in refusing to bring
a suit, that is not sufficient to authorize the stockholders to

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellee.

204 U. S.

proceed, so long as it appears that the corporate officers were
acting in good faith, with 'easonable diligence, and in the exercise of their sound discretion. Memphis City v. Dean, 8
Wall. 64, 73; Dodge v Woolsey, 18 How. 345; Wallace v.
Lincoln Savings Bank, 89 Tennessee, 633; Samuel v. Holladay,
1 Woolw., U. S. C. Ct. 400; Morawetz on Corp., ยง 244; Hawes
v. Oakland,-104U. S. 457, 460, 462.
Mr. William D. Guthrie, Mr. John J. Herrick and Mr. I. K.
Boyesen for appellee:
The decree in the prior suit dismissing the bill for want of
jurisdiction, was not a bar to a new suit in a court of the United
States by the company itself, nor in any event for divisional
relief under the .contract, if the company elected to demand
it. The company itself, therefore, could have filed in a court
of the United States substantially the same bill of complaint
that Mills originally filed, praying divisional relief under its
alleged contract right. It follows that diversity of citizenship
was not essential or controlling as 'the basis of the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court, and that so far as jurisdiction as a Federal
court was concerned, there was really no occasion or motive
for collusion. There can be no collusion without reason or
motive or to subserve some purpose. Simpson' v. Union
Stock Yards Co., 110 Fed. Rep. 799, 801; Illinois Central R. R.
v. Adams, 180 U. S. 28, 33, 37; Ball v. Rutland R. Co., 93
Fed. Rep. 513, 515; Kimball v. Cedar Rapids, 99 Fed. Rep.
130.
The question of collusion is, of course, to be determined by
the conditions existing when Mr. Mills i'equested the board
of directors and the stockholders of the People's Company to institute a new suit, and when he filed his bill, June 8, 1903,
and pot by subsequent developments. Mollan v. Torrance,
9 Wheat. 537, 539. See also Kirby v. American Soda Fountain
Co., 194 U. S.141, 145; Hardenberghv. Ray, 151 U. S. 112, 118;
Colorado Central Mining Co. v. Turck, 150 U. S. 138, 144;
Mexican Central,Ry, v. Pinkney, 149 U- S.194, 200.

CHICAGO v. MILLS.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE- DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is here upon a question of jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court. of the United States for the Northern District
of Illinois to entertain the suit. 26 Stat. 82G. The case
originated in a bill filed in that court by the complainant,
Darius 0. Mills, a citizen of California, as a stockholder in the
People's Gas, Light and Coke Company, a corporation of the
State of Illinois, to restrain the city of Chicago from enforcing
a certain ordinance limiting the right of the gas company as
to charges for furnishing gas.
Complainant averred a demand of the directors that an
action be brought by the company to restrain, the city from
enforcing the ordinance, and alleged compliance with the
ninety-fourth equity rule, and the refusal of the company to
bring the action.
The original bill alleged that the ordinance impaired the
obligation of the contract contained in the charter of the gas
company, in contravention of the contract clause of the Federal
Constitution; and, also, that the ordinance was illegal in that
the city had no power to pass it.
The ordinance thus complained of was adopted by the city
of Chicago, October 15, 1900, and provided that charges for.
gas in excess of 75 cents per 1,000 cubic feet should be illegal,
and fixed a penalty of not less than $25 or more than $200
for each and every violation of the ordinance.
The objection made to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court,
and which is said to be established in the record and duly
presented here, is based upon the allegation that the suit by
Mills was brought in the Federal court by collusion between
him and the gas company, and for the fraudulent purpose of
invoking the jurisdiction of the Federal court concerning a
controversy which was really between the company and the
city of Chicago, parties lacking the -requisite diversity of citizenship to maintain the suit in the Federal courts.
The record discloses that the appeal was allowed to this

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

court solely upon the question of the jurisdiction of the court
as a Circuit Court of the United States. A certificate entered
the same term at which the appeal was allowed sets forth that
the city objectedto the jurisdiction of the court as a Federal
court, and that the appeal was prayed solely upon the question.
of jurisdiction of the court as a Circuit Court of the United
States, and that the appeal was granted solely upon the question of jurisdiction.
Portions of the proceedings, including the testimony on
.the question of jurisdiction, duly signed and sealed and made
part of the record, are certified to this court by certificate ?in
the form of a bill of 'exceptions. In re Lehigh Mining Manufacturing Co., 156 U. S.322; Nichols Lumber Co., v. Franson,
decided at this term. 203 U. S. 278.,
A preliminary objection is made that the certificate does
not show whether the jurisdictional question arose from in,sufficient amount, want of diversity of citizenship, collusion
or otherwise. But we are of the opinion that an examination
of the' record, aided by the opinion of the court contained
therein, and- made. part thereof, distinctly shows that the
auestion of jurisdiction passed upon concerned the collusive
character of the action of the complainant.
We think this brings the casewithin the ruling in Smith v.
McKay, 161 U. S.'355, in which the court; looking "into the
character of the appeal, the certificate of the court and the
certified copy of the opinion made 'part of the record, sustained.
the cour't's jurisdiction, citing, with approval, Shields'v. Coleman, '157 U. .S 168, and In-. re Lehigh Mining Manufacturing
Company , 156 U. S. 322.
The Circuit Court, after an examination of the testimony,
reached the conclusion that the action 'was not collusive, and
upon fifial decree granted a perpettial injunction against the
enforcement of the ordinance in questionr On this appeal we
are only -oncetned with the correctness of the conclusion
reached in the Circuit Court as to the :question of jurisdiction.
This question.is before us 'up& this record. Wetmorev. Rymer,

CHICAGO v. MILLS.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

169 U. S. 115. In order to determine it it is necessary to consider briefly qs may be the facts shown in this record.
The ordinance in question was passed October 15, 1900.
The People's Gas, Light and Coke Company, on the twentyfirSt of December, 1900, brought a suit in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois,
seeking to enjoin enforcement of the ordinance upon the
ground that it impaired the obligation of its charter contract,
denied equal protection of the laws, and amounted to a confiscatin of its property; and upon the further ground that no
power had been conferred upon the city of Chicago by the
legislature of Illinois to thus regulate the price of gas.
It is unnecessary to recite all of the proceedings of that suit
in detail. The history of the litigation will be found in the
opinion of the Chief Jnstice when the case came here from the
Circuit Court on appeal, 194 U. S. 1.
To the bill as originally filed in that case the city of Chicago
filed a general demurrer, and the Circuit Court, holding that
no constitutional right of the dompanywas impaired, decided
that its jurisdiction would not extend to the question of the
power of the council to pass the ordinance in question, and
that such a question was one 'primarily for the state courts;
thereupon the company filed an amendedbill, limiting its rights
to the alleged impairment of its contract.- The city of Chicago
also demurred to the amended bill, and upon the hearing of the
demurrer it was sustained and the bill dismissed for want of
jurisdiction, and a final decree was entered to that effect. An
appeal was thereupon taken to this court.
When the litigation had progressed thus far, complainant
Mills, who was the largest stockholder in' the company, consulted counsel in New York with a view to protecting his interests. Counsel having examined the record prepared a letter
dated December 16, 1902, addressed to the, directors of the gas
company and signed by complainant, 'in which he set forth that
the proceedings in the suit concerning the ordinance reducing
the price of gas to 75 cents per 1,000 cubic feet had been sub-

. OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

mitted tQ. his counsel, together with a copy of the opinion of
the Circuit Court, and that an appeal was then pending in the
Supreme Court of the United States; the advic6 of his counsel
that that suit, might not adequately protect his interests, as
the bill was dismissed for want of jurisdiction and that the
Supreme. Court might limit the decision of' the case to the
'question of jurisdiction. And, further, that it did not involv6
the question of the power of the council of the city of Chicago
to. reduce the rates of the company. He then requested the
institution of a suit against the city of Chicago at the earliest
practicable moment for the purpose of preventing the enforcement of the ordinance, upon the ground that it im.paired its charter contract and that the council had no power
to pass it. The letter further expounded the necessity of resorting to a court of equity-for protection of the company's
rights.
The record discloses that the company's counsel, came to
New York, whereia conference was had with the counsel retained by Mills, and a difference of opinion was de-veloped as
to the propriety and advisability of a new suit which. would
rover the points in difference. The rpsult of this conference
was. that the company's counsel notified counsel for lills
that he should advise the board to decline the request to, bring
a new suit.
On. January 29, 1903,. the- company wrote to Mills, declining
to.begin'the suft,,and sent a copy of the resolution reciting the
belief of'the ,bo'ard that for the company to institute further
legal proceedings to test the validity..of the ordinance of. October 15, 1900, would excite public prejudice against the company, which at :that time it was deemed of. great importance
to avoid, and afterwards, at the annual meeting of the stockholders of the company, a. resolution directing the beginning
'of the suit was defeated.
The question of jurisdiction . must be decided, having reference to the' attitud& of the case at the date the bill was filed,
on June 8, 1903.. Kirby y.. American Sodd Fountain Co., 194

CHICAGO v. MILLS.
204 U. S.

'Opinion of the Court.

UV. S. 141, 145, -146. As to the refusal of the company to
institute a new suit, there is ,ndthing in the record to show
any concert of action between complainant and the company.
At -that time his counsel in New York was-not concerned in
the litigation in Chicago or in the appeal to this court. As
the case brought by the gds company then stood, it had been
dismissed for want of jurisdiction, and an appeal taken from
that decree of dismissal. The case did not necessarily involve
the question of contract rights, and did not embrace the question of power of the city.
In this attitude of affairs counsel might well advise that the
protection of the stockholders' interest required the beginning
of a suit which should embrace the vital questions in issue.
There Was a sharp difference of views between the representatives of Mills and those of the company's solicitors as to the
advisability of bringing an action.
For the prudential reasons outlined in their letter of January 29, 1903, above referred to, the directors of the company
declined to bring the suit. After the judgment of the Circuit
Court was affirmed in this court, the question of the power
of the city to pass the ordinance was left undecided, and was
subsequently litigated to a final decree infavor , of the contention made in the suit begun by Mills.
It is true that upon the hearing of the demurrer in this action
the Circuit Court ordered a decree correcting its former decree
in the gas company suit so as to show that the court decided
the case upon the merits as to the allegations as to contract,
and dismissed the bill without prejudice to the bringing of
any other suit to test the power of the city:
The corrected decree was brought before thins court in the
then pending appeal of the gas company. 194 U. S. 1.
After the decision in this court, affirming the decree in the
gas company suit, an amended bill was filed by complainant
Mills, based solely upon the alleged want of power of the city
council of Chicago to pass, the ordinance in controversy, which
resulted in the decree to which,.we have referred, enjoining

OCTOBER TERM, 190A.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

the enforcement of the ordinance,, for the reason that the city
council of Chicago had no power to pass the same.
As we have said, we think the record establishes that complainant and his counsel honestly believed that such new suit
was necessary to protect the stockholders' interests. There is
an entire lack of testimony to show any collusive action at the
time of the, beginning of the suit.
It is true that subsequent events made it to-the-interest of
the company to make common cause with Mills against the
enforcement of the ordinance in question, but when he began
his suit no proceedings were pending which involved the important question of the power of the city upon which the complainant ultimately prevailed.
It is true that an officer of the company, who was the iext
largest stockholder to Mills, contributed to the expenses in
this suit; but he testified,,and there is nothing in the record
to contradict .him, that he paid this money from his own resources without actual repayment or any understanding with
the company that he should be reimbursed.
It is true that Mills' counsel Was' retained in the suit in this
F
court after the beginning of his suit in Chicago.
It is also true that, in answering to a question put in the
'language of the ninety-fourth rule, as to whether the suit .was
brought to confer upon the Circuit Court of the United States
jurisdiction in a case of which it Would not otherwise have
cognizance, complainant answered that he so understood it,
but subsequently said that he did not understand the question.
This admission, intentionally made, would not necessarily show
collusion. -But we think that it was not the purpose, 0f.the
complainant to say more than 'that he expected his action to
be brought inthe United States court. When a citizen of one
State has a cause of action against a citizen of another State,
which he may prosecute lawfully in a Federal court,, and when
the suit is free from fraud or collusion, his motive in preferring
a Federal 'tibunal' is'immaterial.; Blair v.Ohicago, 201 U. S.
400, 408, and previous cases in this court therein cited.

KANSAS v. UNITED STATES.
204U. S.

331

Argument for Complainant.

Upon the whole record we agree with the Circuit Court that
the testimony does not disclose' that the jurisdiction of the
Federal court was collusively and fraudulently invoked, and
the judgment below will be
Affirmed.
Dissenting: MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER and MR. JUSTICE HARLAN.'

KANSAS v. UNITED STATES.
No. 11, Original.

Submitted November 12, 1906.-Decided February 25, 1907.

Where the name of a State is'used simply for the prosecution of a private
claim the original jurisdiction of this court cannot be maintained.
Although a'State may be sued by the United States without its consent,
public policy forbids that the United States may without its consent be
sued by a State.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Chiles C. Coleman, Attorney General of the State
of Kansas, Mr, Joseph H. Choate, Mr. James Hagerman,
Mr. Adrian H. Joline, Mr. A. B. Browne, Mr. John Madden
and Mr. Joseph M. Bryson for complainalt:
It is a sufficient answer to the motion of defendants to dismiss that the State of Kansas claims by its bill to be the
owner of the legal title and to have th6 right to maintain the
suit against all. the defendants, including the United States,
for the reasons set forth in the bill. This claim cannot be met
by a motion to dismiss, but must be met by either plea, answer
or demurrer, for in that way only can the State have an opportunity of a full hearing and consideration'upon the merits,
according to the principles of the rules of equity, which re-

