OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

204 U. S.

she have a claim for recoupment, the way is open to recover
it." 189 U. S. 368. The same proposition was implied in
The Juniata,93 U. S. 337, 340. Every consideration leads us
to adhere to this statement in the circumstances of the case
at bar.
Decree of Circuit Court of Appeals reversed.
Decree of District Court affirmed.

CROWE v. TRICKEY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME

COURT OF THE TERRITORY

OF

ARIZONA.
No. 71.

Submitted October 31, 1906.-Decided January 21, 1907.

The statement of facts which the Supreme Court of a Territory is called
on to make is in the nature of a special verdict, and the jurisdiction of
this court is limited to the consideration of exceptions and to determining
whether the findings of fact support the judgment.
The statement of facts should present clearly and precisely the ultimate
facts, but an objection that it does not comply with the rule because it
is confused and gives unnecessary details will not be sustainedif a sufficient statement emerges therefrom.
Where the Supreme Court of a Territory proceeds on the bill of exceptions
before it as containing all the evidence in the case below, and the record
in this court shows that all the evidence was contained in the bill of
exceptions, that is sufficient, even though the bill of exceptions may
have failed to state that it contained all the evidence given in the case.
A broker is not entitled to commissions unless, he- actually completes the
sale by finding a purchaser ready and willing to complete the purchase
on the terms agreed on; his authority to sell on commission terminates
on the death of his principal and is not a power coupled with an interest;
and, in the absence of bad faith, he is not entitled to commissions on a
sale made by his principal's administrator, without any services rendered
by him, ever though negotiations conducted by him with the purchaser,
prior to owner's death, may have contributed to the accomplishment of
the sale.
71 Pac. Rep. 965, affirmed.

CROWE v. TRICKEY.
204 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

THis was an action brought by Crowe in the District Court
of Santa Cruz County, Arizona, against Trickey, administrator
of the estate of N. H. Chapin, deceased, to recover the sum of
five thousand dollars as commission on a sale alleged to have
been effected by Crowe for Chapin, during his life, of a onefourth interest in a mine. The case was tried by the District
Court without a jury, a jury having been Waived by agreement
of the parties, and that court made findings of fact and stated
conclusions of law therefrom, upon which it rendered judgment
in Crowe's favor, January 10, 1902, to be paid in due course
of administration. From that judgment the case was carried
by appeal to the Supreme Court Qf the Territory of Arizona,
which, March 20, 1903, reversed the judgment, 'and remanded
the case to the District Court, with directions to render judgment for defendant. 71 Pac. Rep. 965.
The record states:
"In the above entitled action the Supreme Court finds the
facts to be as follows:
"I. Previous to March, 1899, a mine known as the Pride of
the West Mine was owned by three parties. A man named
Olsen owned one-half thereof, and Norman H. Chapin, the
defendant's intestate, and Jerry Neville each owned onefourth interest therein.
"In March, 1899, the plaintiff Crowe brought this mine to
the attention of one Emerson Gee and his associate A. R. Wilfley. Subsequently, in the latter part of March, 1899, Wilfley
purchased Olsen's one-half interest, and made an agreement
with Chapin and Neville, in pursuance whereof a deed to the
remaining one-half interest was executed by Chapin and
Neville, and placed in escrow, the terms of the escrow agreement
providing that the deed was to be delivered' to Wilfley upon
the payment by him of the sum of $100,000 in cash, on or before
the 1st day of April, 1900.'
"II. It was verbally agreed between Crowe on the one part,
and Chapin on the other, representing himself and Neville,
that Crowe was to receive ten per cent of the purchase money

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

204 U. S.

received by them for their interest in the mine, as commission
for making the sale. Such deed and escrow agreement were
executed by Chapin and Neville on the 1st day of April, 1899.
"III. Prior to the 1st day of April, 1900, Chapin and
Neville both died.
"M. M. Trickey was appointed administrator of Chapin's
estate and one Henry H. Harmon was appointed administrator
of Jerry Neville's estate.
"Wilfley failed to pay the money and take the property
under his option, and after the 1st day of April, 1900, at the
expiration of the- time mentioned in the escrow agreement,
and in accordance with the terms thereof, the deed in escrow
was returned to Trickey, the administrator of Chapin's estate.
"IV. Thereafter, and on the 7th day of April, 1900, upon
the payment of $1,000 by Wilfley' the administrators of these
two estates made another agreement with Wilfley, by the terms
of which they agreed to execute a deed to a one-half interest
owned by the two estates, upon the payment of the purchase
price of $100,000, in specific amounts, on different dates therein
expressed. This option also lapsed.
"V. After said lapse, and on the 19th day of June, 1900,
M. M. Trickey, as administrator of the estate of Chapin, entered
into another agreemi ent, which was offered in evidence by the
plaintiff, and appears in the bill of exceptions as 'Exhibit 3.'
"By. this agreement, Trickey as administrator, gave to
Wilfley an option to purchase the one-fourth interest in the
mine owned by the, estate of Chapin, and obligated himself
to execute to Wilfley a deed for such interest upon the payment
of $5,000 in cash, $5,000 within three months; the further
sum of $5,000 within six months; the further sum of $5,000
within nine months; the further sum of $5,000 within twelve
months; and the further sum of $25,000 within eighteen
months.
"The plaintiff Crowe had nothing whatever to do with
either of the last mentioned options, or with the sale of the
.property after the' death of Chapin.

CROWE v. TRICKEY.
204 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

"VI. In. pursuance to this option, Wilfley paid to Trickey
the sum of $5,000 in cash on the 19th clay of June, 1900; and
the' following sums on the following dates, respectively: $5,000
on September 19, 1900; $5,000 on December 19, 1900; $5,000 on
March 20, 1901; $5,000 on June 17, 1901; $25,000 on December
7, 1901.
"VII. The above mentioned agreement (Exhibit 3) was only
an option to purchase, and under it there was no obligation
on the part of Wilfley to pay any portion of the purchase price,
and no obligation on the part of Trickey to deliver the deed
mentioned in the agreement until the last payment of $25,000
in December, 1901, had been made.
"VIII. On the, 10th day of December, 1900, Crowe presented to Trickey, as administrator of Chapin's estate, in
accordance with the law of the Territory of Arizona, his claim
against the estate of Chapin for 'Ten per bent of the purchase
price of the Pride of the West Mine, agreement for the sale of
which was entered into about April 1st, 1899, and which said
agreement of sale was made by Chapin and Neville to A. R. Wilfley, and which sale was brought about by the said George W.
Crowe, upon the agreement that he was to receive ten per cent
commission upon said purchase-price from said Chapin and
Neville, one-half of said ten per cent being $5,000.'
"IX. This claim was rejected by the administrator, and he
thereupon brought this action- in the District Court of Santa
Cruz County on the 25th day of January, 1901, at whichtime' the estate of N. H. Chapin, deceased, was solvent, and
amply able to pay all debts of the said estate, and the said
Chapin nor the said Trickey nor any one else had paid to. the
plaintiff the said sum of $5,000, or any part thereof, or anything on account thereof.
"The case was tried before the court, without a jury, a jury
having been by. agreement of parties waived, and the court
,made the following findings of fact:
(Here follow, findings of fact and conclusions of law by the
District Court, upon which judgment was rendered in favor

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

204 U. S.

of the plaintiff, and an appeal prayed therefrom to the Supreme
Court as stated.]
"The only statements of fact in the record were contained
in the foregoing findings of fact, and in a bill. of exceptions.
The said bill of exceptions, which was transmitted to the
Supreme Court of Arizona with the record in this case, did not
state, that it contained all of the evidence which was introduced
upon the trial of the case in the. District Court, nor upon the
points presented to the Arizona Supreme Court for its decision,
nor does it otherwise appear from the record in the case that
all of the evidence which was introduced upon the trial of the
.case in the District Court was before the said Supreme Court of
Arizona. The abstract of the transcript which contained
the evidence stated that'the defendant by his bill of exceptions,
which contained all the evidence taken on said trial, and which
is as follows:' then follows the bill of exceptions reciting the
testimony of the different witnesses, covering some 23 pages,
and at the conclusion thereof the following allowance:
"'The foregoing bill of exceptions was presented to me for
allowance on the 24th day of January, 1902, and was by
me on the same date submitted to Messrs Hereford & Hazzard, attorneys for the opposite party, who made no objection
thereto, whereupon the said bill of exceptions is now by me
signed, approved -and allowed as of the said 24th day
of January, 1902. Geo. R. Davis, Judge,' but the record
contains no certificate from the clerk or court that the evidence
contained in the bill of exceptions constituted all of the evidence taken on the trial in the lower court, and that fact is
controverted by the counsel for the appellee.
"The Arizona Supreme Court found the following facts:
"I. That the efforts of the plaintiff Crowe resulted in procuring the purchaser Wilfley not to purchase absolutely, but
to take an option on the purchase of the property involved, for
one'huridred thousand dollars~ that Crowe's principals accepted
a deed to the property and placed it in escrow; that although
Chapin died before. the expiration of that escrow agreement,

CROWE v. TRICKEY.
204 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

the deed executed by him remained subject to the order of the
purchaser, and that if he had availed himself of the terms of
that agreement, the sale would have been completed and
plaintiff. Crowe would have been entitled to his commission,
but that Wilfley failed to make the payment and take up the
deed, and, after the expiration of the option and after Chapin's
death, the deed was returned to the administrator of Chapin's
estate and the transaction was closed without any sale being
made.
."II. That the sale of the property that was subsequently
effected was the result of the negotiations between Trickey,
the administrator of Chapin's estate, and Wilfley; that before
the date of the sale, Crowe's power or authority to act in the
matter had been terminated, and his agency revoked by the
death of Chapin.
"III. That in regard to the latter negotiations, Crowe rendered no services to Trickey, received no appointment or agreement from Trickey in reference to the matter, and took no
part whatever in the ultimate sale.
"IV. That the plaintiff Crowe did not, between the 8th
day of February, 1898, and the 11th day of January, 1900,
bring about a sale of Chapin's interest in the property in controversy.
"V. The said A. R. Wilfley paid to the said defendant the
sum of fifty thousand dollars, as follows; April 7, 1900, five
hundred dollars; June 19, 1900, four thousand five hundred
dollars; September 19, 1900, five thousand dollars; December
19, 1900, five thousand dollars; March 20, 1901, five thousand
dollars; June 17, 1901, five thousand dollars; December 7, 1901,
twenty-five thousand dollars, not for the right, title and interest of the said Norman H. Chapin but for the 'right, title
and interest of the said estate of Norman H. Chapin, deceased,
in and to' the said property, in compliance with the terms of
the contract of sale and title bond executed to the said Wilfley
by Trickey' the administrator of said estate."
[Here follow conclusions of law and judgment.]

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

Mr. W. C. Keegin, Mr. F. H. Hereford and Mr. S. E. Hazzard,
for appellant:
The finding of the Supreme Court of Arizona is conclusive
of the fact that none of the evidence given at the trial of the
case in the District Court was preserved and carried to the
Supreme Court of Arizona, except that contained in the bill
of exceptions. The finding of the Supreme Court of Arizona
is also conclusive of the fact that this bill of exceptions did not
state that it contained all the evidence which was introduced
upon the trial of the case in the District Court, nor upon the
points presented to the Supreme Court of Arizona for its decision. The finding of the Supreme Court of Arizona is also
conclusive of the fact that it does not "otherwise appear from
the record in the case that all of the evidence which was introduced upon the trial of the case in the District Court was
before the said Supreme Court of Arizona."
The Supreme Court of Arizona erred in reviewing the case
upon the evidence and reversing the judgment in the absence
of a showing that all of the evidence in the case was before it.
United States v. Copper Queen Consolidated Mining Co., 185
U. S. 495; Russell v. Ely, 2 Black, 575; Gardner v. Babcock,
3 Wall. 240; Texas Pacific R. Co. v. Cox, 145 U. S. 593;
Territory v. Flores, 3 Arizona, 215, 77 Pac. Rep. 491; Paul v.
Cullom, 2 Arizona, 16; Territoryv. Clanton, 3 Arizona, 1, 20 Pac.
Rep. 94; Score v. Griffin, 80 Pac. Rep. 331; 2 Ency. Pleading &
Practice, 441.
Mr. Eugene S. Ives for appellees.
MR. CHIEF

JUSTICE

FULLER,.

after making the foregoing

statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The Supreme Court of the Territory was called upon to
make a statement of the facts of the case in the nature of a
special verdict, and also the rulings of the court in the admission :or rejection of evidence when excepted 'to. Our

CROWE v. TRICKEY.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

jurisdiction is limited to the consideration of such exceptions
and to determining whether the findings of fact support the
judgment. Harrison v. Perea, 168 U. S. 311; Young v. Amy,
171 U. S. 179.
The statement of facts required by the statute should present clearly and precisely the ultimate facts. And while it
may be objected to the statement in this case that it does not
properly comply with that rule, for -it is quite confused and
gives a mass of unnecessary details, yet we think the imper-,
fections in that regard should not be held fatal as a sufficient
statement finally emerges. This will be understood by reference to the statement itself, which we have set forth for that
purpose.
. The bill of exceptions contains some minor rulings on
questions propounded to witnesses, but the exceptions thereto
were not insisted upon in the Supreme Court nor considered
by that tribunal, so that the question before us is whether
the findings of fact support the judgment.
But several of the errors assigned are to the effect that the
Supreme Court erred in considering or determining the case
upon questions of fact, because the bill of exceptions failed
to state that it contained all of the evidence given in the case,
and the- record failed "to show that the bill of exceptions
contains all of the evidence given in the case, or all of the evidence bearing upon the questions involved in the decision"
of the court.
The Supreme Court proceeded upon the record as containing
all the evidence and we are not inclined to hold that the contention that it should not have done so is open to our consideration under the limitations of the statute. But, be that
as it may, we think the records show that all the evidence was
contained in the bill of exceptions and that that is sufficient
even. though the bill itself did not so state in express terms.
Gunnison County Commissioners v. Rollins, 173 U. S. 255.
Paragraphs 1485 and 1582 of the Revised Statutes of Arizona
1901 (pp. 461, 474), provide:

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

"Every paper filed in a case shall constitute a part of the
record of the case,, including depositions and all written evidence and exhibits offered or admitted in evidence; and no
papers thus filed or admitted in evidence, or offered in -evidence
and rejected by the court, need be incorporated in a statement
of facts in order to make it a part of the record."
"On taking an appeal . . . the appellant
shall cause to be filed in the Supreme Court ....
the
original record of the case) together with a copy of all minute
entries made in the case, the same to be certified to by the
clerk of the District Court, with the seal of the court affixed,
that it contains a true copy of all minute entries made in the,
case, and that the papers thereunto attached are all the papers
. .."
constituting the record of the case.
The clerk accordingly transmitted to the Supreme Court:
all of the original' records and copies of the minute entries.
The case, coming on for hearing, the minute entries state:
"The trial then proceeded upon the pleadings herein, in
the presence of and before the court sitting without a jury,
a jury having been expressly waived in open court by both
parties hereto, and the plaintiff to maintain upon his'part the
issues herein, introduced certain documentary evidence, and
also called as a witness the following named person, to wit,
George W. Crowe, the plaintiff, who was duly sworn, examined
and cross-examined, and thereupon the plaintiff rested his case.
The defendant then, to maintain upon his part the issues
herein, called as a witness the following named person, to wit,
M. M. Trickey, who was duly sworn, examined and crossexamined, and thereupon the defendant rested his case. The
evidence being now adduced and the case closed, arguments
of the respective counsel followed, and the cause being now
fully submitted, the same was by the court taken under advisement."
The evidence of two witnesses, Wilfley and Gee, was taken
by deposition, and their depositions were sent up in the transcript. The minute entries show that only two witnesses,

CROWE v. TRICKEY.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Crowe and Trickey, administrator, were examined before the
court, and their testimony is given in narrative form in the
bill of exceptions, as well as the testimony of Wilfley and Gee.
The minute entries, in speaking of the 'introduction of "documentary evidence," were manifestly intended to embrace
depositions in that term. There is no room for presuming
that any evidence was omitted, and the points to which the
evidence adduced was addressed preclude such a suggestion.
We are brought then to the question of the sufficiency of the
facts found to suppprt the judgment. The findings may be
summarized as follows:
Chapin and Neville each owned one-fourth of the mine,
and on April 1, 1899, signed a paper addressed to the .Consolidated National Bank of Tuscon, Arizona, which is contained
in the bill of exceptions, and, by reference,, in the statement
of facts, and was couched in these terms:
"GENTLEMEN: The enclosed deed from N. H. Chapin,
Marie Chapin, Jerry Neville and Refugia Neville, parties of
the first part, to Arthur R. Wilfley, party of the second part,
is to be delivered to the said Arthur R. Wilfley upon the payment of the sum of one hundred thousand dollars at or before
the expiration of one year from the date hereof.
"And You are further directed that ,all moneys sent you
from time to time by the said Arthur R. Wilfley, with instructions to apply the same to the payment of the aforesaid purchase money, shall be so applied and the same placed to the
credit of N. H. Chapin and Jerry Neville.
"Therefore, if the said Arthur R. Wilfiey shall pay-Sr cause
to be paid the sum of money above imientioned, at or before
the time aforesaid, you will then deliver the said deed to the
said A. R. Wilfley, his agent or assigns. Otherwise the said
deed is to be held subject to the order of the said N. H. Chapin
and Jerry Neville.
"Dated Washington, Arizona, April 1st, 1899."
This paper and the ded therein mentioned were deposited
in escrow in the bank on that day.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

The terms of the transaction had been arranged the latter
part of March, and it was verbally agreed that Crowe should
receive ten per cent commission on the purchase money received by Chapin and Neville.
Chapin died January 11, 1900, and Trickey was appointed
administrator February 8, 1900, and qualified as such. Neville died January 3, 1900, and Harmon was appointed administrator and qualified as such.
Wilfley failed to pay the money and take the property, and
after the expiration of the time mentioned in the escrow agreement the deed in escrow was returned to Trickey, admintrator.
On April 7, 1900, the administrators of the two estateg
made an agreement with Wilfley to execute a deed to the half
interest on payment of $100,000, in amounts prescribed. This
option also expired. Thereafter, and on the nineteenth of
June, 1900, Trickey, as administrator of the estate of Chapin,
entered into an agreement with Wilfley to convey to him the
right, title and interest of the estate of Chapin in the mining
property (described as a quarter interest), on payment of
$50,000, in designated amounts, and these payments were
subsequently made.
Crowe had nothing whatever to do with either of the lastmentioned options, or with the sale of the property after the
death of Chapin.
- And the claim he presented to Trickey as administrator of
Chapin's estate was for $5,000, being one-half of the commission
agreed to be paid to him in March, 1899, on the purchase price
which would have been received by Chapin and Neville if
the option of April 1, 1899; had been carried out.'
In these circumstances we concur in the judgment of the
Supreme Court of the Territory.
In McGavock v. Woodlief, 20 How. 221, it was laid down
that in order to be entitled to commission "the broker must
complete the sale, that is, le must find a purchaser in a situation and ready and willing to complete the purchase on the
terms agreed on." But this rule is inapplicable when the

CROWE v. TRICKEY.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

owner refuses without sufficient reasons, to fulfill the agreement which the agent has made. Kock v. Emmerling, 22 How.
69. Even though he could not have been compelled to carry
out his contract if he had chosen to set up the statute of frauds.
Holden v. Starks, 159 Massachusetts, 503. Or when the agent's
authority is revoked in bad faith before the completion of the
sale. Sibbald v. Bethlehem Iron Company, 83 N. Y. 378.
In this case the subject was IIIch considered, and Finch, J.,
in delivering the opilion of the court, said, among other things:
"It is the established rule that a broker is never entitled
to (ommlissins
fOr tIIIsueC(ssful (fort.
.
. The broker
may devote his time and expend his money with ever so much
devotion to the interest. of his employer, and yet if he fails,
if without efl'ectillg an agreelient or accomplishing a bargain,
he abandons the effort, or his authority is fairly and in good
faith terminated, he gains no right to commissions, and in
such event it iiatters not that after his failure and the terinination of his agency, what he has ([one proves of use and benefit
to the princil)al. He may have introduced to each other
parties who otherwise would have never met. He may have
created impressions which under later and, iiore favorable
circumstances naturally lead to, and materially assist in, the
consummation of a sale. . . . This, however, must be
taken with one important and necessary limitation. If the
efforts of the broker are rendered a failure by the fault of the
employer; if capriciously he changes his mind after the purchaser, ready and willing and consenting to the prescribed
terms, is produced; or if the latter declines to complete the
contract because of some defect of title in the ownership of the
seller, some unremoved incumbrance, some defect which is
the fault of the latter, then the broker does not lose his commissions. . . . One other principle applicable to such
a contract as existed in the present case needs to be kept in
view. Where no time for the continuance of the contract is
fixed, by its terms, either party is at liberty to terminate it at
will, subject only to the ordinary requirements of good faith.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

Usually the broker is entitled to a fair and reasonable opportunity to perform his obligation, subject of course to the
right of the seller to sell independently. But, having been
granted him, the right of his principal to terminate his authority is absolute and unrestricted, except only that he may
not do it inbad faith, and as a mere device to escape the payment of the broker's commissions.
"If, after the broker has been allowed a reasonable time
within which to produce a buyer and effect a sale, he has
failed to do so, and the seller in good faith and fairly has
terminated the agency and sought other assistance by the aid
of which a sale is consummated, it does not give the original
broker a right to commissions, because the purchaser is one
whom he introduced and the final sale is in some degree aided
or helped forward by his previous unsuccessful efforts."
In the present case what Crowe had obtained was not an
absolute contract of purchase, ,but an option on the purchase.
The.deaths of Chapin and Neville terminated the authority
of Crowe to sell on commission, which was not a power coupled
with an interest, that is, an interest in the property on which
the power was to operate. Hunt v. Rousmanier, 8 Wheat.
174;,Walker v. Walker, 125 U. S. 339.
Neverthelegsup to the first of April, 1900, if Wilfley had
availed himself. of the terms of the escrow agreement, the sale
might have been completed and Crowe have been entitled
to his commission, but Wilfley did not do so, and the deed
held in escrow was returned in accordance with the terms of
that agreement.
There is no legal basis for the imputation of bad faith,
and it is not pretended that Crowe was employed by Trickey
or -rendered any service to him in the matter of the sale.. The
bare, fact that what he had done in the former negotiations
may have contributed to the accomplishment of the sale by
Trickey is not enough to sustain his claim for the commission
sued for.
Judgment affirmed.

