OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

204 U. S.

BACHTEL v. WILSON, SHERIFF.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF .THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 446.

Argued November 14, 15, 1906.-Decided January 7, 1907.

The highest court of a State is, except in the matter of contracts, the ultimate tribunal to determine the meaning of its statutes.
Where the highest court of a State has, without opinion, sustained the
validity of a state statute and there were at least two questions of construction before it, one of which excluded all Federal objections on which
its decision can rest, until it is shown which construction the state court
accepted, this court cannot hold the statute to be unconstitutional.
While a state legislature may not arbitrarily select certain individuals
for the operation of its statutes, the selection in order to be obnoxious
to the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment must'be
clearly and actually arbitrary and unreasonable and not merely possibly so.
Writ of error to review 74:Ohio St. 524, dismissed.

sole question in this case, as stated by counsel for
plaintiff in error, is whether the following section of the statutes of Ohio contravenes section 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States:
"Every president, director, cashier, teller, clerk or agent
of any banking company who shall embezzle, abstract or
wilfully misapply any of the moneys, funds or credits of such
company, or shall, without authority from the directors, issue
or put forth any certificate of deposit, draw any order or bill
of exchange, make any acceptance, assign any notes, bonds,
drafts or bills of exchange, mortgage, judgment or decree, or
shall make any false entry in any book, report or statement
of the company, with intent in either case to injure or defraud
the company, or any other company, body politic or corporate,
or any individual person, or to deceive any officer of the company, or any agent appointed to inspect the affairs of any
banking company in this State, shall be guilty of an offense,
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be confined in the.peniTHE

BACHTEL v. WILSON.
204 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

tentiary, at hard labor, not less than one year nor more than
ten years." Section 30, Act of March 21, 1851, entitled "An
act to authorize free banking," as amended April 24, 1879,
76 0. L. 74; 2 Bates' Annotated Ohio Statutes, 6th ed., §§ 3821
-3885.
Plaintiff in error, who was cashier of the Canton State Bank,
a bank incorporated under the above "free banking" act, was
indicted in the Court of Common Pleas of Sftrk County for
a violation of this section. A demurrer to the indictment
having been overruled, he, before arraignment, sued out a
writ of habeas corpus in the circuit court of that county.
Thereafter the final judgment of the Supreme Court of the
State in that proceeding having been adverse, he brought the
case here on this writ of error.
Mr. William A. Lynch for plaintiff in.
error:
The prosecution of plaintiffs in error under section 30, as
amended in 1879, violates section 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment. If the court holds that section 30 includes only the
officials and agents of the so-called free banks, then this statute and these prosecutions deprive the plaintiffs in error of
their liberty without due 'process of law and deny to them
the equal protection of the laws, because the statute is enforcible against a very small part of a class of' persons all of
whom act under similar conditions and circumstances; if the
court holds that section 30 includes the officials and agents
of all incorporated banks, but excludes those of unincorporated private banks, the same discrimination is presented in
principle, and the same result should follow. Caldwell v.
Texas, 137 U. S. 692; Railroad Co. v. Matthews, 174 U. S.96;
Railway Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150; Giozza v. Tiernan 148
U. S. 657.
Thelegislature has no power to treat the officials and agents
of the so-called free banks as a class by themselves. It cannot create a class where none naturally exists. Classification
cannot be made arbitrarily, but must be based upon some

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

difference which bears a just and proper relation to the attempted classification. Railway Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150;
Railroad Co. v. Matthews, 147 U. S. 96, 104; Connolly v. Union
Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 539.
Mr. Charles C. Upham and Mr. John W. Craine for defendant.in error:

The Fourteenth Amendment was not ifttended to repeal or
annul existing legislation or special laws, existing at the time
of its adoption, and when it was adopted the "Free Banking
Act" remained as much unimpaired as it was prior to the
adoption of that Amendment. While § 30 of the "Free
Banking Act of 1851," Rev. Stats. §§ 3821-3885, was amended
April 24, 1879, if that amendment is constitutional, well and
good;. but if it is unconstitutional the repealing clause falls
with the amendment, and the original act is restored. This
has been the uniform holding of the Supreme Court of Ohio,
which is the conclusive judge of state enactments. 67 Ohio St.
303, 306; 66 Ohio St. 482,488; 60 Ohio St. 273.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER, after making the foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
Counsel predicate the unconstitutionality of this statute,
not on its provisions standing by themselves, but on its relation to other statutes.
On February 26, 1873 (70 0. L. 40), an act was passed in
terms incorporating savings and loan associations, but- with
-powers such as in fact authorized the carrying on of ordinary
commercial banking. Under this statute a few institutions
were organized. In 1880 a general incorporation law was
enacted (Rev. Stat. Ohio, 1880, § 3235 and following), and
under it many banks were formed. In addition the banking
statistics of the State show that there are several banks owned
by unincorporated stockholders, copartnerships or individuals.
Now, in no statute, save the free banking act, is there any

BACHTEL v. WILSON.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

section with provisions kindred to those in section 30 above
quoted, and the contention is that the plaintiff in error was.
denied the "equal protection of the laws" guaranteed by the
Fourteenth Amendment, in that he was subject to prosecution and punishment for matters and things which, if done by
a cashier of any similar, institution, whether unincorporated or
incorporated under the statutes of Ohio other than the free
banking act,. would not subject him to punishment. The
cashiers of such other institutions are charged with duties
substantially the same as those of this plaintiff in error, and
yet the one may be punished for a violation of those duties
and the others not. Can the State' single out a few men and
punish them for acts, when for like acts others are free from
liability?
No opinion was filed by the Supreme Court of the State,
and we, therefore, are not advised of the grounds upon which
that-court held section 30 valid; yet that court did hold it
valid, and in the face of. the same objections that are made
to it here. If "any' banking company," as found in the free
banking act, is applicable to every banking -institution, no
matter under what statute organized, there is no violation
of the equal protection of the laws. Counsel for plaintiff in
error contend that the Supreme Court could not have given
so broad a meaning to those words, because they are in a
section treating of crimes, and the rule of strict construction,
which is universal in respect to criminal statutes, forbids its
extension to institutions other than those incorporated under
the act of which it is a part; because the title of the original
act, "An act to authorize free banking," limits the scope of
the statute, and therefore the applicability of every section
therein; and, further, that as the free banking act, as originally passed, was only to be in force until the year 1872, it is
improbable that a criminal provision of general application
should be inserted in an act so limited in the matter of time.
On the other hand, it is contended by the defendant in error
that the words in section 30, "any banking company," em-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

brace all banking institutions in. the State of Ohio, whether
incorporated under the free banking act or not, and this because the words themselves ae broad and comprehensive,
because there is no other provision in the statutes for punishing those who commit the offenses named in said section, and
it cannot be supposed that the legislature. intended that other
like officials should be immune from punishment, and also
because section 30, both in the original act and also in the
Revised Statutes, has no apparent connection with, in no
way modifies or affects any other sections, and might as well
have been placed in the criminal code or by itself in the statutes.
But we are not called upon to decide which is the correct
interpretation. The Supreme Court of a State is the ultimate
tribunal to determine the meaningof its local statutes. We
are not to assume that that which seems more reasonable to
us also seemed more reasonable to and was adopted by it.
Before we can pronounce its judgment in conflict with the
Federal Constitution it must. be made to appear that its decision was one necessarily in conflict therewith and not that
possibly, or even probably, it was. It surely is not unworthy
of consideration that the legislature, having before it the
question of punishment for offenses committed by banking
officers, having made provision therefor by one section in
which it used the term "any banking company,." may have
believed that thereby it had included in its punitive provisions all banking institutions, and that a repetition of that
section in other statutes was unnecessary. We do not decide
that this was so, but'we do hold that in view of the silence
of the Supreme Court we are not justified in assuming that
it held that it was not so.
Further, if we assume that the Supreme Court was of the
opinion that section 30 was limited in its applicability to institutions incorporated Under the free banking act, a question
will then be whether the selection of officers of those institutions and subjecting them to punishment, when the officers
of all other banking institutions, guilty of similar offenses, are

BACHTEL v. WILSON.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

not so subject, is a denial of the equal protection of the laws.
The power of a state legislature to select certain individuals
for the 'operation of a statute is not an arbitrary power, one
that it can exercise without regard to any principle of classification. And yet there is a power of selection., The Fourteenth Amendment was not designed to prevent all exercise
of judgment by a state legislature of what the interests of the
State require and to compel it to run all its laws in the channels of general legislation. It may deem that social and business conditions, without penal legislation, afford ample protection to the public against wrongdoing by certain officials,
while such legislation may be deemed necessary for like protection against wrongdoing by other officials charged with
substantially similar duties. The duties of a county or city
treasurer may be very like those of the treasurer of a charitable
or business corporation, and yet if the legislature prescribed
penalties for misconduct of the former and none for similar
misconduct of the latter it would be giving the amendment
extreme force to make it efficient to overthrow the statute
and thus relieve all treasurers from punishment. In short,
the selection, in order to become obnoxious to the Fourteenth
Amendment, must be arbitrary and unreasonable, not merely
possibly, but clearly and actually so. Carroll v. Greenwich
Insurance Co., 199 U. S. 401, 411. Would the singling out
for punishment of the officers of the free banks be an arbitrary
selection? The free banks, though they may be like other
banking institutions, are not in all respects the same.
But here, too, we are not called upon for an absolute defision, nor do we deem it necessary to determine whether
there be such differences as will sustain the imposition of
punishment of their officers, when none is cast upon the like
officers of other banks. We only refer to these matters to
indicate that there were at least two questions before the
Supreme Court involving the validity of section 30, one of
which, at least, presents no matter of a Federal nature, and
in respect to each of which something may be said one wey

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

and the other, and until it is shown what the Supreme Court
did in fact decide, it is impossible to hold that the section as
construed by it is in conflict with the Federal Constitution.
Under those circumsthncs it is clear that we have no jurisdiction, Johnson v. Risk, 137 U. S. 300, and cases cited in
opinion, and the writ of error is
Dismissed.

BACHTEL v. WILSON, SHERIFF.
MILLER v. SAME.
DAVIS v. SAME.
VAN HORN v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
Nos. 147, 448, 449 and 450.

Argued November 14, 15. 1906.-Decided January 7,1907.

Bachtel v. Wilson, ante p. 36, followed.

THE facts appear in. the statement, of the previous case
which was argued simultaneously herewith.
Mr. William A. Lynch for plaintiffs in error.1
Mr. Charles C. Upham and Mr.'John W. Craine for defendant in error.1
MR,JUSTICE BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.

The. same question controls these cases as the one just de-

cided, and, for the reasons given in the foregoing opinion,
they . Are
Dismissed.
1 For abstracts of arguments see ante. pp. 37, 38.

