WALLACE v. ADAMS.
204 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

WALLACE v. ADAMS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 260.

Argued December 21, 1906.-Deeided February 25, 1907.

The power of Congress over citizenship in Indian tribes is plenary; it may
adopt any reasonable method to ascertain who are citizens, and if one
method is unsatisfactory it can try another; nor is its power exhausted.
because the, first plan is by inquiry in a territorial court. The functions
of a territorial court in such a case are those of a commission rather than
of a court.
The act of July 1, 1902, 32 Stat. 641, creating the Choctaw and, Chickasaw
Citizenship Court and giving it power to examine, and in case of error
-found, to annul judgments of courts of Indian Territory determining
citizenship in the Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations, was a valid exercise
of power.
Congress has power to provide for the bringing of a suit in regard to citizenship in Indian tribes in a court of equity in which every class to be affected shall be represented and that those not actually made parties but
who belong to the classes represented shall be bound by the decree.
Citizens are bound to take notice of the legislation of Congress.
143 Fed. Rep. 716, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. A. C. Cruce and Mr. Jackson H. Ralston, with whom
Mr. W. I. Cruce, Mr. W. R. Bleakmore, Mr. Frederick L.
Siddons and Mr. Wil4am E. Richardson were on the brief,
for plaintiffs in error:
The citizenship court was not a court but a commission;
it was but an arm of the administrative branch of the government and could not exercise judicial functions and
therefore could not vacate a decree entered by the regularly
established courts. The Circuit Court of Appeals having decided that the United States courts in the Indian Territory,
and 'the Supreme Court, in determining questions of Indian
citizenship were, themselves, not acting as courts, but prac-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

204 U. S.

tically as commissions, it must follow that the. citizenship
court, in exercising the jurisdiction'conferred upon, it, was
likewise performing legislative and not judicial functions.
The citizenship court was not capable of exercising such
judicial functions as to authorize it to vacate the decree of
the United States court in the Indian Territory admitting
Hill to citizenship. Ex parte Joins, 191 U. S. 93.
If the citizenship court was a judicial body, its decree,
setting aside the decrees admitting parties to citizenship,
is insufficient to accomplish that purpose as to any other
than the ten defendants in that case. ,Before IHill could be
affected by the decree of the citizenship court, he should
have been 'made a party thereto. That court had no right
or authority to assume that, he was situated. similarly to the
other defendants. Harwood v. C. & 0. R. R. Co., 17 Wall. 78.
The questions submitted to the determination of the citizenship court by the act of July 1, 1902, which established that
court, were in issue in and determined by, the various cases
which came to this Court from the United States courts in
the Indian Territory admitting parties to citizenship in the
Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations. See Stephens v. Cherokee
Nation, 174.U. S. 445, in which -this Court decided that the
act. of June 10, 1896, was constitutional and that the cases
should have been tried de novo in the territorial courts. If,
after the lapse of four years, Congress had the right to create
an inferior tribunal and authorize it to retry these same questions, there is no reason why it may not, at the end of another
four years, establish another -tribunal to undo the work of
the citizenship court, and the litigation might be extended
ad infinitum.
The act providing for the creation of the citizenship court
was class legislation, and therefore unconstitutional. The.
act of 1890 put the Constitution in force in the Indian Territory, and, since that time,'the various members of the Indian,
tribes have been as much entitled to its protection as citizens
of the United States.

WALLACE v. ADAMS.
204 U. S. Argument for the Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations.

The defendant in his application for citizenship, complied
literally with the rules adopted by the United States government and its agents, and that govei'rnment, as well as the
Choctaw and Chickasaw tribes, is estopped to claim that the
proceedings admitting -him to 'citizenship were irregular.
People v. Stephens, 71 N. Y. 527; Lindsay v. Haws, 2 Black
(U. S.), 554; State v. Milk, 11 Fed. Rep. 389; State v. Flint,
89 Michigan, 481; Sanders v. Hart, 57 Texas, 8; State v. Dint,
18 Missouri, 313; Alexander v. State, 56 Georgia, 478.
The. Constitution intended that the Judiciary. should be
'independent of Congress, and it would be a dangerous innovation if this court should hold that its final judgments and
decrees are subject to the legislative will, in all cases appealed
from what are called legislative courts, or where the controversy is about*matters which are originally cognizable by
Congress.
'Congress may relinquish or surrender its plenary power
over political questions, and this power once surrendered
may never be.resumed. 'Ex parte Heff, 197 U. S. 488; Uni,
led States v. Arredondo, 6 Pet.'691; Astiazaran v. Santa Riti
L. & M. Co., 148 U. S.80; Den v. Hoboken Land & Imp't Co.,
18 How. 272.
Mr. George A. Mansfield, with whom Mr. J. F. McMurray
andMr. Melven Cornish were on the brief, for the Choctaw
and Chickasaw Nations (by'special leave of court). No
counsel appeared for the defendant in error.
That part of the act of Congress approved July 1, 1902,
creating the Choctaw and Chickasaw 0itizenship Court and
governing its jurisdiction is constitutional and valid and the
decrees of that courit, rendered thereunder, are regular and
should be enforced.
The United States court in' Indian Territory was without
jurisdiction to entertain a suit in ejectment on behalf of an
Indian allottee for possession of his allotment, on account
of that provision contained in the act of July 1, 1902, specifi-'
VOL. cciv-27

OCTOIER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

cally directing the Indian Agent by summary order, to put
allottee Indians in possession of their allotments, and providing that his action to that end should not be interfered
with by the writ of process of any court.
It was the duty of the trial judge to have made the Choctaw
and Chickasaw Nations parties to the suit under the provisions
of section 12,of the act of Congress approved June 28, 1898,
30 Stat. 495, and because of the failure of the trial judge to
act as required by this law, the case should not have been
permitted to proceed to final determination.
The establishment by Congress of the citizenship court was
necessary and desirable; necessary to do justice to the Nations
and desirable from the standpoint of the government, as
permitting the administration of the estate of its wards and
enabling it to bring to a final and correct conclusion all matters entrusted to its care as guardian. It was a, necessary
and proper exercise of the power of Congress to save the
Nations from fraud and wrong. McCullough v. Maryland,
4 Wheat. 316, 344; Stephens v. Cherokee Nation, 174 U. S. 445;
United States V. Kagama, 118 U. S. 375.
The manner of its exercise is a matter of legislative discretion and cannot be controlled by the courts. Cherokee
Nation v. Hitchcock, 187 U. S.308; Lone Wolf v. Hitchcock,
187 U. S. 565.
In the creation of the citizenship court Congress has not
exceeded its powers and the legislation is valid and constitutional, and the proceedings of the citizenship court thereunder are regular and they should be enforced. If there
should be; 'however, a doubt as to its validity, that would not
be sufficient to justify this court in declaring it unconstitutional. The doubt would be resolved in favor of its constitutionality. Cooley's Const. Lim., 6th ed. 216, and authorities, cited.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action commenced in September, 1904, by

WALLACE v. ADAMS.
204 U. S.

Opinioh of the Court.

Mrs. Ella Adams, for herself and her minor children, defendants in error, in the United States court for the Southern
District of the Indian Tdrritory, to recover possession of a
tract of land in that Territory. Defendants answered, and
upon trial judgment was rendered in favor of plaintiffs. This
judgment was sustained by the United States Court of Appeals
of the Indian Territory, and on further appeal'reaffirmed by
the United States Circuit Cour t of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit. 143 Fed. Rep. 716.
The case arises out of the legislation of Congress designed
to secure the disintegration of the tribal organization of the
Five Civilized Tribes in the Indian Territory, and the distribution of the property of those tribes among the individual
Indians. A- full r6sum6 of this legislation and the general
litigation following it is to be found in Stephens v. The Cherokee
Nation, 174 U. S. 445, and a full statement of the facts in this
case is to be found in the opinion of the United States Circuit Court of Appeals. An entire restatement: of these matters is, therefore, unnecessary.
There is but a single matter to be determined. As counsel for plaintiffs in error say:
"The assignment of errors presents but one question. If
the decree of the Choctaw-Chickasaw Citizenship Court, in
the test case known as the Riddle case, vacated the decree
that defendant, Hill, had, theretofore, procured in the United States court for the Southern District of the Indian Territory, wherein he was adjudged to be a member of the Choctaw
tribe of Indians, this case should be affirmed. If it did not,
it should be reversed."
To properly appreciate and rightly answer this single question some things in the history of the legislation and litigation
and also some of the facts in this case must be noticed.
In order to divide the lands of these Indian nations an
enumeration of the individuals entitled thereto became necessary. By the act of March 3i 1893, 27 Stat. 645, c. 209, § 16,
the commission to the Five Civilized Tribes, generally known

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

as the Dawes Commission, was empowered to negotiate and
extinguish the tribal title to the lands and to make an allotment thereof to the members of the tribe in severalty. By
that of June 10, 1896, 29 Star. 339, 340, c. 398, the commission
was authorized to hear the application and determine the
right of each applicant for citizenship in either of. these tribes.
The act also granted an appeal, to the proper United States
District Court in the Indian Territory to any party aggrieved
by the ruling of the commission, aud declared that the judgment of that court should be final. It required the commission
to make a complete roll of the citizens of each of the tribes,
to be "hereafter held and considered to be the true and correct
rolls of persons entitled to the. rights of citizenship in said
several tribes." Hill, who is the principal defendant, applied
to be enrolled as a citizen of the Choctaw Nation, and his
application was finally sustained by the court, and he was,
on March 8, 1898, adjudged to be a member of the Choctaw
tribe by blood and entitled to 'be enrolled as such. The
land in controversy was selected and taken, possession of
by him in reliance upon this- adjudication of citizenship. On
July 1,. 1898, Congress passed an act (30 Stat. 591, c. 545),
granting to the tribes an appeal to the Supreme Court from
the judgments of the United' States courts of the Indian Ter-'
ritory in citizenship: cases. Under the authority of this act
many of these cases were appealed to this court, which affirmed the judgments. Stephens v.. Cherokee Nation, supra.
On.March 21, 1902, an agreement was made between the
United States and the Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations,
'which was confirmed by act of Congress July 1, 1902, 32
Stat. 641. This agreement and act were substantially that
a court known as the Choctaw and Chickasaw Citizenship
Court should be created, and that court should have power
in a suit in equity brought by either or both of these tribes
against any ten persons who had been admitted to citizenship
or enrollment by the .terms of the judgments of the several
United States courts in the Indian Territory, as represental

WALLACE v. ADAMS.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tives of all persons similarly situated, to determine whether
the judgments of those courts should be annulled on account
of certain alleged irregularities. The agreement and act also
provided that in case the citizenship courts should decide
that those judgments should be annulled, the papers in any
action in those courts, wherein such a judgment had been
rendered, should, upon seasonable application of either party,
be transferred to the citizenship court, which should proceed
to a hearing and determination of the question of citizenship.
Under this agreement and act the court was established
and a test suit brought, in which a decree was entered to the
effect that the judgments of the United States courts in the
Indian Territory, whereby persons were admitted to citizenship in the Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations under the act of
June 10, 1896, were annulled and vacated. Hill was not
named a party in that test suit, nor did he thereafter apply
for a transfer of his case to the Citizenship Court. The above
statement of facts is sufficiently full for an understanding
of the single question presented for determination.
That single question may be divided into two, First, was
the decree in the Indian Territory court declaring Hill a
citizen a finality, beyond the power of Congress to in any
manner disturb? This was answered in the Stephens case,
supra. In that case we held that Congress could authorize
a review of the judgments of the United States courts of the
Indian Territory in citizenship cases, and this although, by
the terms of prior legislation, those judgments had become
final. While sustaining the act authorizing such review
and providing for appeals to this court we construed it as
limiting the appeals to the question of the constitutionality
or validity of the legislation, and not as bringing before us
the facts in 'the instances of all applications for citizenship.
In the opinion (page 477) we said:
"The contention is that the act of July 1, 1898, in extend;ng the remedy by appeal to this court was invalid beause
retrospective, an invasion of the judicial domain and de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.'

204 U. S.

structive of vested rights. By its terms the act was to operate
rettospectively, and as to that it may be observed that while
the general rule is that statutes should be so construed as to
give them only prospective operation, yet where the language
expresses a contrary intention in unequivocal terms the mere
fact that the legislation is retroactive does not necessarily
render it void.
"And while it is undoubtedly true that legislatures can
not set aside the judgments of courts, compel them. to grant
flew trials, order the discharge of offenders or direct what"
steps shall be taken in the progress of a judicial inquiry, the
grant of a new remedy by way of review has been often sustained under particular circumstances. Calder v. Bull, 3
Dall. 386; Sampeyreac v. United States, 7 Pet. 222; Freeborn v.
Smith, 2 Wall. 160; Garrison v. New York, 21 Wall. 196;
Freeland v. Williams, 131 U. S. 405; Essex Public Board v.
•Skinkle, 140 U. S. 334.
"The United States court in Indian Territory is a legis•lative court and was. authorized to exercise jurisdiction* in
*these citizenship cases as a part of the machinery, 'devised
by Congress in the discharge of its duties in respect of.these
Indian tribes, and assuming that Congress possesses plenary
power of .legislation in regard to them, subject only to the
Constitution of the United States, it follows that, the. validity
of' remedial: legislation of this sort can not be questioned
unless in violation of some prohibition of 'that instrument.
"In its enactment Congress has not attempted to interfere in

.any

way with the judicial department

-of

the Gov-

ernment, norcan the act be properly regarded as destroying
any vested right, since the right asserted to be vested is only
the exemption of these. judgments from review, and the- mere
expectation of a share in the public lands and moneys of these
tribes, if hereafter distributed, if the applicants are admitted
to citizenship, can not be held to amount to such an absolute
right of property that the original cause of action, which is
citizenship or not, is placed by the judgment of a lower court

WALLACE v. ADAMS.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

beyond the power of reexamipation by a higher court, though
subsequently authorized by general law to exercise jurisdiction."
This decision established that no such vested right was
created by the proceedings of the Dawes Commission or the
judgments of the courts of the Indian Territory on appeal
from the findings of the commission as prevented subsequent
investigation. The power of Congress over the matter of
citizenship in these Indian tribes was plenary, and it could
adopt any reasonable means to ascertain who were entitled
to its privileges. If the result of one measure was not satisfactory it could try another. The fact that the first provision
was by an inquiry in a territorial court did not exhaust the
power of,Congress or preclude further investigation. The
functions of the territorial courts in this respect were but
little more than- those of a commission. While the act of
July 1, 1898, provided for an appeal to this court, and appeals
were taken in many cases, yet our inquiry stopped with the
question of the constitutionality of the legislation. In other
words, we entertained and decided the purely judicial question
of the validity of the means Congress had adopted for determining the matter of citizenship. We did not attempt
to pass upon the question of citizenship in any particular
case nor determine whether the applicant was or was not
entitled to be enrolled as a citizen. It is unnecessary to consider what would have been the effect of a judgment of this
court, a court provided for in the Constitution, on the question of the right of a litigant to citizenship. The distinction
between this court and the courts established by act of Congress in virtue of its power to ordain and. establish inferior
courts is shown in Gordon v. United States, 117 U. S. 697, in
which we held that while Congress could give to the Court of
Claims jurisdiction to inquire and report upon claims against
the Government, it could not authorize an appeal from such
report to this court unless our decision was made a final judgment, not subject to Congressional review.. In the opinion
Mr. Chief Justice Taney said (pp. 699, 702):

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

"Congress may undoubtedly establish tribunals with special
powers to examine testimony and decide, in the first instance,
upon the validity and justice of any claim for money against
the United States, subject to the supervision and control of
Congress, or i head of any of the executive departments.
In this respect the authority of the Court of Claims is like to
that of an auditor or comptroller, with this difference only,
that in the latter'case the appropriation is made in. advance,
upon estimates furnished by the different executive departmentP, of their probable expenses during the ensuing year;
and the validity of the claim is decided by the officer appointed
by.law for that purpose, and the money paid out of the appropriation afterwards made. In the case before us the validity
of the claim is, to be first decided, and -the appropriation
made' afterwards. But in principle there is no difference
between these two special jurisdictions created by acts of
Congress -for special purposes, and neither of them possess
judicial power in : the sense in Which these words are used in
the Constitution. 'The circumstance that one is 'called a
court and its decisions called judgments, can not alter its
character, nor enlarge its power....

Congress can not

extend the appellate power of this court beyond the limits prescribed by the Constitution, and can neither confer 'nor imp'se
on.it the duty of hearing and determining an appeal from a
commissioner or auditor, or any other tribunal exercising
only special powers,'under an act of Congress; nor can Congress 4uthorize or require this court. to express -an opinion
on a' case..where its judicial power could, not be, exercised,
and where its judgment would not be 'final and conclusive
upon the rights of the parties, and process of execution awarded
'to-carry it into effect."
This decree was follQwed by legislation which in'a general
way provided that the rulings of this court on appeals from
the judgments of the Court of Claims should be in effect
judgments. While that case is. not entirely parallel to this,
yet -the line of thought pursued in the opinion is suggestivE..

WALLACE v. ADAMS.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

We do not feel called upon to enlarge upon it. It is enough
now to hold that Congress in giving to the Indian Territory
courts jurisdiction of appeals from the action of the Dawes
Commission did not place the decisions of these courts beyond
the reach of further investigation. Hence the act of Congress
of July 1, 1902, creating the Choctaw and Chickasaw Citizen-.
ship Court, and giving to it power to examine the judgments
of the Indian Territory courts and determine whether they
should not be annulled on account of irregularities was a
valid exercise of power.
The other question is one of procedure and not of power.
It is objected that the defendant Hill was not made a party
to the proceeding instituted in the citizenship court, but
there were a multitude, according to the report of the Dawes
Commission, probably one thousand, in whose favor judgments of citizenship had been entered in the Indian Territory
courts, and the act provided that ten should be selected as
representatives of the class. It further authorized any individual, in case of an adverse judgment by the citizenship court,
to transfer his case from the territorial to that court. Now, it
is undoubtedly'within the power of a court of equity to name
as defendants a few individuals who are in fact the representatives of a large class having a common interest or a common
right-a class too large to be all conveniently brought into court
-and make the decree effective not merely upon those individuals, but also upon the class represented by them. Mandeville
v. Riggs, 2 Pet. 482; Smith v. Swormstedt, 16 How. 288; Bacon
v. Robertson, 18 How. 480, 489; United States v. Old- Settlers,
148 U. S. 427, 480. It was by way of extra precaution and in
order to more effectually secure the rights of the individuals
other than those named as parties defendant in that suit
that .Congress provided' that any one might transfer his individual case from the territorial court to the citizenship
court, and there have the merits of his claim decided. Hill,
as every other citizen, was bound to take notice. of the legislation of Congress, and it is not to be doubted that he as

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

204 U. S.

well as otller similarly situated were cognizant of the proceedings that were being had in pursuande of such legislation.
,He made no application to transfer his case, but chose to
abide by the outcome of the case against the ten representatives of his class. The answers to these subordinate questions fully dispose of the main question. Without further
discussion, we refer to the exhaustive opinion of Circuit Judge
-Sanborn, in delivering the judgment of the Court of Appeals,
with which, in the main, we fully concur.
We find no error in the record, and the judgment of the
Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

TEXASAND: PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. ABILENE
COTTON OIL COMPANY.
ERROR-TO..THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS FOR THE SECOND,
,SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 78. Argued November 2, 1906.-Decided February 25, 1907.
Where defendant in the state court contends that, consistently with the
Interstate Commerce Act, the state court hhs'no power to grant the relief,
and such, contention is essentially involved and expressly, and, in order
to support the judgment, necessarily, decided adversely to the defendant,
a Federal question exists and this court can review the judgment on writ
of error under § 709;.Rev. Stat.
Where the state court determined a case involving railroad rates on. the
hypothesis conceded by. counsel on both sides.that the rate was one
of a lawful schedule duly filed and published in accordance with the
Interstate Commerce Act, the contention that the rate was not-.so filed
" and, published and, therefore,.-was not a' legal rate is not open in this
court.
While repeals by implication are not favored and a statute will not be con. strued as abrogating an existing common-law remedy, it will be so construed .if
such preexisting right is so repugnant .to it as to deprive it of
its efficacy and render its- provisions nugatory.
The, Interstate Commerce Act was intended to afford an effective and
comprehensive means for redressing wrongs resulting from unjust discriminations and undue preference, and -to that end placed upon carriers

