OCTOBER TERM; 1906.
Statement of the Case.

204 U. S.

meant was that regular terms should be held at Ponce and
San Juan at the times fixed by Congress in the statute and
that the same character of term might be held at Mayaguez
at time to be specially designated by the. district judge.
Dismissed for want oj jurisdiction.

McKAY 1 v. KALYTON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OREGON.
No. 181.

Argued January 25, 1907.-Decided February 25, 1907.

Although the Federal right was first claimed in the state court in the petition for rehearing, if the question was raised, was necessarily involved,
and was considered and decided adversely by the state court, this court
has jurisdiction under ยง 709, Rev. Stat.
The United States has retained such control over the allotments to Indians
that, except as provided by acts of Congress, controversies involving the
determination of title to, and right to possession of, Indian allotments
while the same are held in trust by the United States are not primarily
cognizable by any court, state or Federal.
The act of August 15, 1894, 28 Stat. 286, delegating to Federal courts the
power to determine questions involving the rights of Indians to allotments did not confer upon state courts authority to pass upon any questions over which they did not have jurisdiction prior to the passage of such
act, either as to title to the allotment, or the mere possession thereof
which is of necessity dependent upon the title.

THIS suit was commenced in the Circuit Court of Umatilla
County, Oregon, by the filing of a complaint in the name of
Agnes Kaylton, suing by her mother, Louise Kaylton, as
guardian ad litem. Mary Kaylton and six other persons were
made defendants, one such (Charles Wilkins) being sued as the
acting United States Indian agent at the Umatilla reservation.
It was alleged in substance as follows: By virtue of an act
of Congress approved March 3, 1885, and the amendments

I Substituted

for Kalyton.

McKAY v. KALYTON.
204 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

thereto, a tract of land in the Umatilla Indian reservation was
duly allotted on April 21, 1891, to one Joe Kailton, a member of the Cayuse tribe residing on said reservation. It was
alleged that in or about the year 1893 Joe Kaylton, the allottee,
in accordance with the customs of the Cayuse tribe, married
Louise

,

an Indian woman of that tribe, and the

plaintiff, Agnes Kaylton, was issue of the marriage. In 1898
Joe Kaylton died intestate, leaving the plaintiff as his sole
heir, and,' under the laws of Oregon and the provisions of the
act of Congress referred to, she became entitled to the land
allotted to her father and to the possession and enjoyment
thereof. It was charged that Mary Kaylton and four of the
defendants, all insolvent, claiming to be heirs of the deceased,
had taken and held possession of the land in question, which
had a rental value of $274.75 per annum. It was alleged that
one of the defendants named Glasscock claimed to have some
interest in the land and was confederating with the other defendants, who were wrongfully alleging themselves to be the
heirs of Joe Kaylton, with the object of depriving plaintiff
of the use of the land and the enjoyment of the rents and
profits thereof. Averring that under the rules and regulations of the Department of the Interior, in order that plaintiff
might obtain the use and enjoyment of the land, it was requisite that her status as legal heir of the deceased should be
adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction, the court was
asked to so decree and to perpetually restrain the defendants
from interfering with her possession and use of the land.
General relief was also prayed.
An answer was filed on behalf of the defendant Mary Kalyton. It was-therein denied in substance that there had been
a marriage between Joe and Louise Kalyton, and. that the
plaintiff was their child,,and, averring that Joe Kalyton was a
resident and citizen of Oregon and had died intestate, unmarried and without any lineal descendant. It was alleged
that the defendant, as the sister of Joe Kalyton, was his sole
heir, and as such was the owner of and entitled to the posses-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

204 U. S.

sion of the lands in controversy and to its enjoyment. A
decree was prayed quieting her alleged title.
The other of the defendants, who were alleged to be confederating with Mary Kalyton, filed a disclaimer of any interest
in the lands in controversy. The cause was heard by the
court. Deciding that if Joe Kalyton and Louise Kalyton
had been married according to the custom of the Indians
of the Cayuse tribe, such marriage would have been void,
and that there had been no marriage between the parties,
because none had been solemnized in accordance with the laws
of the State of Oregon, the plaintiff was held to be an illegitimate child of the deceased, and to have no right, title or interest'in or to the lands in question, and a decree was entered
in favor of the defendant Mary Kalyton.
The cause was appealed to the Supreie Court of the State
of Oregon. That court, having found that Joe and Louise
Kalyton were married according to the.. custom and- usage of
the Indian tribe, to which they belonged, and that the plaintiff was the issue of such marriage, held, in view of the legislation of Congress, "that the plaintiff herein was born in
lawful wedlock and is the sole heir of Joe Kalyton, deceased,
and, as such, entitled to the possession of the real property of
which he died seized,." The decree of the trial court was,
therefore, reversed, and a decree was entered in favor of the
appellant in accordance with the, opinion. A motion for a
rehearing was made and overruled. This motion was based
upon the contention that the court had erred in taking jurisdiction of the' cause, for the reason that it involved the title
and right to possession of public land held in trust by the
United States for the benefit of Indians, and hence the United States was a necessary party defendant and not subject
to the jurisdiction of'a state court. We say the petition for a
rehearing was based upon the grounds just stated, although
the petition is not in the record, because it is manifest that
such was the case from the opinion which the court delivered
in refusing the rehearing. 45 Oregon, 116. In that opinion

McKAY v. KALYTON.
204 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the question whether the matter was one of exclusive Federal
cognizance was elaborately considered,' and it was decided
that it was not, because a decree as to the right of possession
would not interfere with the title or trust interest of the
United States. And the court declared that for the purposes
of determining its jurisdiction it was wholly irrelevant to
consider whether it would have the power .to enforce its decree
for the possession of the allotted land against the officer of
the United States in charge of the Indian reservation in case
that official should decline to give effect to the decree for
possession.
The case was then brought to this court.
Mr. Samuel Herrick, with whom Mr. T. G. Hailey and
Mr. R. J. Slater were on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The legal title to the lands involved in this suit is in the
United States as trustees for twenty-five years for the allottee,
or, in case of death, his heirs. Act of March 3, 1885, 23
Stat. 340. The only authority for'such suit as this is the act
of Congress of August 15, 1894, 28 Stat. 305, which confers
jurisdiction therefor upon the United States Circuit Courts,
and such jurisdiction is exclusive. Act Aug. 15, 1894, 28
Stat. 305; Patawa v. United States, 132 Fed. Rep. 894; Parrv.

United States, 132 Fed. Rep. 1004; Smith v. United. States,
142 Fed. Rep. 226; Wisconsin Ry. Co. v. Price County, 133
U. S. 496-504.

Prior to the passage of the act of August 15, 1894, supra,
the authority to determine the rights of claimants to allotments upon the Umatilla Indian Reservation was vested in
the Secretary of the Interior. Act March 3, 1885, 23 Stat.
340;'Mosgrove v. Harper, 33 Oregon, 252.
Indians born within the territorial limits of the United States
to whom allotments have been made, are citizens of the United
States, andof the State or Territory where they may reside,
and subject to and entitled to the benefits of all the laws,
civil and criminal, of such State or Territory. Act Feb. 8,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

204 U. S.

1887, ยง 6,24 Stat. 288; Boyd v. Thayer, 143 U. S. 135 162;
In re Heff, 197 U. S. 488, 509; State v. Denoyer, 6 N. Dak.286;
State v. Norris, 37 Nebraska, 299; In 're Now-Ge-Zhuck, 69
Kansas, 410.
Such Indian allottees are subject to. the laws of the State
in which they may reside governing their marriage relations.
Moore v. Wa-Me-Go, 83 Pac. Rep. 400.
Mr. William Frye White, with whom Mr. John B. Cotton
was on the brief, for defendant in error:
This court has no jurisdiction to review this cause on writ
of error because -no title, right or immunity specially set up
or claimed under any Federal statute, has been denied. Corkran Oil &c. Co. v. Arnaudet, 199 U. S. 182.
If the court below erred as specified in the first assignment
of error, in holding that the marriage of Joe Kalyton and
Louise was a legal marriage under the act of February 28,
1891, it was an immaterial error and one which cannot in the
nature of things be prejudicial to the party against whom the
decision was rendered, and that, therefore, if the relief granted
is correct according to law, this court will not reverse the decision below. 'Erwin v. Lowry, 7 How. 172.
The provisions of the act of February 8, 1887, and ยง 5 of
the amendatory act of February 28, 1891, apply to lands
allotted under the act of March 3, 1885, and that, therefore,
the court below having found that Joe Kalyton and Louise,
Indians residing upon the Umatilla Reservation, were married
according to the customs and habits of such Indians, and having found that the plaintiff was the offspring of such marriage,
it committed no error in holding and decreeing that the plaintiff should have the possession of the land of which her father
as an allottee, died seized.
The Supi.eme Court of Oregon had jurisdiction of the subjectmatter and the act of August 15, 1894, did not oust the jurisdiction of the state court and place it exclusively in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the bistrict of Oregon, but the

McKAY v. KALYTON.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

jurisdiction as between these courts is concurrent. Jackson
v. Jackson, 17 Oregon, 110; Hindman v. Rizor, 21 Oregon, 112;
Allen v. Dunlap, 24 Oregon, 229; Bishop v. Baisley, 28 Oregon',
119; Pacific Live Stock Co. v. Gentry, 38 Oregon, 275; Browning
v. Lewis, 39 Oregon, 11; Moore v. Halliday, 43 Oregon, 243;
Selkirk v. Stephens, 72 Minnesota, 335; Swartzel v. Rogers,
3 Kansas, 374; Wiley v. Keokeuk, 6 Kansas, 94; Ingrahm v.
Ward, 56 Kansas, 550; Whirlwind v. Von der Ahe, 67 Mo.
App. 628";Felix v. Patrick (C. C.), 36 Fed. Rep. 457; Y-ta-tah-wa
v. Rebock (C. C.), 105 Fed. Rep. 257; Felix v. Patrick, 145
U. S. 317; Bem-way-bin-ness v. Eshelby, 91 N. W. Rep. 291'
16 Am. & Eng. Ency. Law, 216; Stacey v. LaBelle, 99 Wisconsin, 520; Mo. Pac. Ry. Co. v. Cullers, 31 Texas, 382; 22 Cyc.,
149; Wright v. Marsh, 2 Greene (Iowa), 94; Telford v. Barney,
1 Greene (Iowa), 575; Bern-way-bin-ness v. Eshelby, 87 Minnesota, 108;' Bird v. Winyer, 24 Washington, 269.
The Supreme Court of the State of Oregon having jurisdiction of the subject matter, the United States is not a necessary party defendant.
Hy-Tu-Tse-Mil-Kin v. Smith, 194
IT.

S. 401.

MR. JUSTICE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement
delivered the opinion of the court.
It is contended that we are without jurisdiction because no
title, right or immunity was specially set up or claimed under
any Federal statute and denied. But, leaving aside for a
moment all other considerations, it is plain that the defendant below set up a claim of immunity from suit in the state
court under the laws of the United States, and that the right
to the immunity so asserted under an act or acts of Congress
was expressly considered and denied by the state court. True
it is that the immunity which was asserted was first claimed
in a petition for rehearing, but as the question was raised, was
necessarily involved and was considered and decided adversely
by the state court, there is jurisdiction. Leigh v. Green, 193
U. S. 790.

OCTOBER TERM 1906.
โข Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

At the threshold lies the question raised and decided below
relative to the jurisdiction of the state court over the controversy.
Allotments of land in severalty to Indians residing upon the
Umatilla reservation, in Oregon, were authorized by the act
of Congress of March 3, 1885, ch. 319, 23 Stat. 340, which contained the following provision:
"The President shall cause patents to issue to all persons
to whom allotments of lands shall be made under the provisions
of this act, which shall be of the legal effect and declare that
the United States does and will hold the land thus allotted,
for the period of twenty-five years, in trust for the sole use and
benefit of the Indian to whom such allotment shall have been
made, or, in case of his decease, of his heirs, according to the
laws of the State of Oregon, and that at the expiration of said
period the United States will convey the same by-patent to
said Indian or his heirs as aforesaid, in fee, discharged of said
trust and free of all charge or incumbrance whatsoever: Provided, That the law of alienation and descent in force in the
State of Oregon shall apply thereto after patents have been
executed, except as herein otherwise provided.".
The allotment to Joe Kalyton was made on April 21, 1891.
Before that allotment, Congress on February 8, 1887, ch. 119,
24 Stat. 388, passed what is known as the General Allotment
Act. By that act, as said in United ,States v. Rickert, 188 U. S.
432, 435, provision was made for the allotment of lands in
severalty to Indians on the various reservations, and for extending the protection of the laws of the United States and
the Territories over the Indians. To that end the President
was authorized, whenever, in his opinion, a reservation or any
part thereof was advantageous for agricultural and grazing
purposes, to cause it, or any part thereof, to be surveyed, or
resurveyed if necessary, and to allot the lands in the reservation in severalty to any Indian located thereon, in certain
quantities specified in the statute, the allotments to be made
by special agents appointed for that purpose, and by the

McKAY v. KALYTON.
204 U. S.

Opinion of theCourt.

agents in charge of the special reservations on which the allotments were made. In one of the provisos of the first section
of the act it was declared"That where the treaty or act of Congress setting apart
such reservation provides for the allotment of lands in severalty in quantities in excess of those herein provided, the
President, in making allotments upon such reservation, shall'
allot the lands to each individual Indian belonging thereon
in quantity as specified in such treaty or act."
A provision of like nature to that heretofore excerpted
from the act of March 3, 1885, was embodied in section 5 of
the general allotment act of 1887, reading as follows (24 Stat.
389):
"SEC. 5. That upon the approval of the allotments provided for in this act by the Secretary of the Interior, he shall
cause patents to issue therefor in the name of the allottees,
which patents shall be of the legal effect, and declare that the
United States does and will hold the' land thus allotted, for
the period of twenty-five years, in trust for the sole use and
benefit of the Indian to whom such allotment shall have been.'
made, or, in case of his decease, of his heirs according to the
laws of the State or Territory where such land is located,
and that at the expiration of said period the United States
will convey the same by patent to said Indian, or his heirs
as aforesaid, in fee, discharged of said trust and free of all
charge or encumbrance whatsoever: Provided, That the President of the United States may in any case in his discretion
extend the period. And if any conveyance shall be made
of the lands set apart and allotted as herein provided or any
contract made touching the same, before the expiration of
the time above mentioned, such conveyance or contract shall
be absolutely null and void: Provided, That the law of descent
and partition in force in the State or Territory where such
lands are situate shall apply thereto after patents therefor
have been executed and delivered, except as herein otherwise
provided.."
vod. cciv-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

The supervisory power possessed by the United States over
allotted lands while the title remains in the United States
was pointed out in the opinion in United States v. Rickert,
supra, a case which came to this court upon questions certified
from a Circuit Court of Appeals. The suit was instituted
under the direction of the Attorney General of the United
States for the purpose of restraining the collection of taxes
alleged to be due the county of Roberts, South Dakota, in
respect of certain permanent improvements on, and personal
property used in the cultivation of, lands in that county
occupied by members of the Sisseton band of Sioux Indians
in the State of South Dakota. The lands referred to had
been allotted under the provisions of an agreement made in
1889, ratified by an act of Congress in 1891, and more particularly under section 5 of the act of February 8, 1887, heretofore
referred to. Discussing the interest which the Indians primarily acquired in the allotted land, it was concluded that
"the United States retained the legal title, giving the Indian
allottee a paper or writing improperly called a patent, showing
that at a particular time in the future, unless it was extended
by the President, he would be entitled to a regular patent conveying the fee. . . . These lands were held by the United States in execution of its plans relating to the Indianswithout any right in the Indians to make contracts in reference
to them, or to do more than to occupy and cultivate themuntil a regular patent conveying the fee was issued to the
several allottees." And the court approvingly quoted the
following passage from an opinion of the Attorney General,
delivered in 1888, advising that allotments of lands provided
for in an act of Congress were exempt from state or territorial taxation, "that the lands covered by the act are held
by the United States for the period of twenty-five years in
trust for the Indians, such trust being an agency for the exercise of a Federal power, and therefore outside the province
of State or Territorial authority."
It was decided, in view of the object to be accomplished

McKAY v. KALYTON.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

by allotting Indian lands in severalty, that it was not within
the power of a State to tax either the permanent improvements made on allotted lands or the personal property consisting of cattle, horses and other property of like character
which might be furnished to Indians for use upon such land.
And, answering a question as to whether the United States
had such an interest in the controversy or in its subjects as
entitled it to maintain the suit, the court declared (p. 444)
that no argument to establish that proposition was necessary.
Nor are the principles which were thus announced as to the
nature and character of an allotment of Indian lands and
the interest of the United States therein as trustee before the
expiration of the period for their final disposition in any way
affected by the decision In the Matter of Heft, 197 U. S.488,
dealing with the subjection of allottee Indians in their personal conduct to the police regulations of the State of which
I
they had become citizens.
The present suit was commenced in 1899. At that time
there was in force an act approved August 15, 1894, ch. 290,
28 Stat. 286, in which it was provided, inter alia, as folloWs
(p. 305):
"That all persons who are in whole or in part of Indian
blood or descent, who are entitled to an allotment of land
under any law of Congress, or who claim to be so entitled to
land under any allotment act or under any grant made by
Congress, or who claim to have been unlawfully denied or
excluded from any allotment or any parcel of land to which
they claim to be lawfully entitled by virtue of any act of Congress, may commence and prosecute or defend any action,
suit or proceeding in relation to their right thereto in the proper
circuit court of the United States."
And it was provided that "the judgment or decree of any
such court in favor of any claimant to an allotment of land
shall have the same effect, when properly certified to the
Secretary of the Interior, as if such allotment had been allowed
and approved by him."

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

Considering the act of 1894 in Hy-yu-tse-mil-kin v. Smith,
194 U. S. 413, the court said:
"Under this statute there is no provision rendering it
necessary in a private litigation between two claimants for
an allotment to. make the United States a party. The statute
itself provides that the judgment or decree of the court, upon
being properly certified to the Secretary of the Interior, is'
to have the same effect as if the allotment had been allowed
and approved by the Secretary. This provision assumes that
an action may be maintained without the Government being
made a party, and provides for the filing of a certificate of
the judgment and its effect; and the Government thereby, in
substance and effect, consents to be bound by the judgment,
and to issue a patent in accordance therewith."
The Rickert case settled that, as the necessary result of
the legislation of Congress, the United States retained such
control over allotments as was essential to cause the allotted
land to enure during the period in which the land was to be
held in trust "for the sole use and benefit of the allottees."
As observed in the Smith case, 194 U. S. 408, prior to the
passage of the act of 1894, "the sole authority for settling
disputes concerning allotments resided in the Secretary of
the Interior." This being settled, it follows that prior to the
act of Congress of 1894 controversies necessarily involving
a determination of the title and incidentally of the right to
the possession of Indian allotments while the same were'held
in trust by the United, States were not primarily cognizable
by any court, either state or Federal. It results, therefore,
that the act of Congress of 1894, which delegated to the courts
of the United States the power to determine such questions,
cannot be construed as having conferred upon the state courts
the authority to. pass upon Federal questions over which,
prior to the act -of 1894, no court had any authority. The
purpose of the act of 1894 to continue the exclusiyve Federal
control over the subject is manifested by the provision of that
act, which commands that a judgment or decree rendered

McKAY v. KALYTON.
204 U; S.

Opinion of the Court.

in any such controversy shall be certified by the court to the
Secretary of the Interior. By this provision, as pointed out
in the Smith case, supra, the United States consented to
submit its interest in the trust estate and the future control
of its conduct concerning the same to the result of the decree
of the courts of the United States, a power which such courts
could alone exercise by virtue of the consent given by the act.
The subsequent legislation of Congress, instead of exhibiting
a departure from this policy, confirms it. By the amendments
to the act of 1894, approved February 6, 1901, ch. 217, 31
Stat. 750, it is expressly required that in suits authorized to
be brought in the Circuit Courts of the United States respecting
allotments of Indian lands, "the parties thereto shall be the
claimant as plaintiff and the United States as party defendant."
Nothing could more clearly demonstrate, than does this requiremen't, the conception of Congress that the United States
continued as trustee to have an active interest in the proper
disposition of allotted Indian lands and the necessity of its
being made a party to controversies concerning the same,
for the purpose of securing a harmonious and uniform operation of the legislation of Congress on the subject.
The suggestion made in argument that the controversy
here presented involved the mere possession and not the
title to the allotted land is Without merit, since the right of
possession asserted of necessity is dependent upon the existence of an equitable title in the claimant under the legislation
of Congress to the ownership of the allotted lands. Indeed,
that such was the cas6 plainly appears from the excerpt
which we have made from the concluding portion of the
opinion of the Supreme Court of Oregon.
- Because from the considerations previously stated we are
cofistrained to the conclusion that the court below was without
jurisdiction to entertain the controversy, we must not be.
considered as intimating an opinion that we deem that the
principles .applied by the court in disposing of the merits of
the dase were erroneous.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

204 U. S.

The judgment of the Supreme Court of Oregon is reversed and
the cause remanded to that court for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
The

CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE BREWER

PECKHAM

and MR.

JUSTICE

dissent.

SERRA v. MORTIGA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
No. 202.

Submitted February 1, 1907.-Decided February 25, 1907.

The guarantees extended by Congress to the Philippine Islands are to be
interpreted as meaning what the like provisions meant when Congress
made them applicable to those islands.
While a complaint on a charge of adultery under the Penal Code of the
Philippine Islands may be fatally defective for lack of essential averments as to place and knowledge on the part of the man that the woman
was married, objections of that nature must be taken at the trial, and
if not taken, and the omitted averments are supplied by competent
proof, it is not error for the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands
to refuse to sustain such objections on appeal.
While the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands hears an appeal as a
trial de novo and has power to reexamine the law and the facts it does
so entirely on the record.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Aldis B. Browne, Mr. Alexander Britton and Mr. Maurice
Kelly, for plaintiffs in error, submitted:
The complaint herein fails to state the essential elements
of the crime of adultery, and is hence fatally defective. In
entering judgment of conviction thereon, the court below
violated the fundamental guarantees of the Constitution and
of the Philippine Bill of Rights. United States v. Cook, 17
Wall. 168; United States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 542, 557;
Evans v. United States, 153 U. S. 84; Cochran v. United States,

