CRAIG v. LEITENSDORFER.
Syllabus.

they may have served as officers or enlisted men in the regular
or volunteer Army or Navy, or both;" and the benefits 'of
such actual service are to be received, where the service has
been continuous, in the regular Navy.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is

CRAIG v. LEITENSDORFER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
Argued October 12, 13, 1897.-

Decided October 31, 1857.

If an official act of an executive officer in the Land Office is challenged for
error of law, or for fraud in a judicial proceeding between private parties,
in a court of the United States, no jurisdiction attaches unless the
controversy relates to rights existing in the parties, or one of them,*
derived from the act, and unless definite relief or redress under some.
known head of judicial jurisdiction is demanded.
The acts of June 21, 1860, 12 Stat. 71, and February 25, 1869, 15 Stat. 275,
having referred to the Land Office and the Department of the Interior
the adjustment of the claims of settlers within the Las Animas grant
in Colorado, and their definition by the prescribed surveys and plats,
and of all questions of possession and of boundary and of conflict, the
free course of that administration, within the limit of the law, cannot
be interrupted or interfered with by the judicial power.
If the plaintiff's contention is well founded that the duty of the Commissioner of the General Land Office to take up, hear and determine his
appeal exists, that duty, so far as relates to entering upon its performance, is strictly ministerial, and his remedy is at law, by mandamus,
and not in equity.
The controversy in this case being confined to the conflicting claims of
actual settlers, "holding possession under titles or promises to settle,"
made by Cofnelio Vjgil and Ceran St. Vrau, and established under the
provisions of the acts of June 21, 1860, 12 Stat. 71, and February 25,
1869, 15 Stat. 275; and it appearing from the pleadings, as amended,
that the plaintiff below did, not aver an equitable interest in himself in
the lands which were so established in favor of the defendant, and that
the only remedy, which he sought, wa; to have it judicially determined
that the defendant's title was obtained ,by means of the fraudulent act

OCTOBER TERMI,

1887.

Statement of the Case.
of an executive officer in the Land Office, whereby the plaintiff was
illegally deprived of a right of appeal from the decision of that officer
touching his own claims; Held, That the pleadings presented no question to give a Circuit Court jurisdiction in equity over the case.
UNDER the treaty with Mexico of Guadalupe Hidalgo, Cornelio Vigil and Ceran St. Vrain claimed title, under a Mexican
grant made in 1843, to a large tract of land embraced within
the Huerfano, Pisipa, and Cucharos Rivers to their junction
with the Arkansas and Animas, known as the Las Animas
grant, and supposed to cover and include about 922 square
leagues, lying in the Territory of New Mexico, but within the
limits of the present State of Colorado, and equivalent to four
millions of acres.
By the act to confirm certain private land claims in the Territory of New .Mexico, approved June 21, 1860, 12 Stat. 71,
Congress confirmed the claim of Vigil and St. Vrain, but only
to the extent of eleven square leagues to each of said claimants. By the second section of that act it was provided "that
in surveying the claims of said Cornelio Vigil and Ceran St.
Vrain the location shall be 'made as follows, namely: The survey shall first be made of all tracts occupied by actual settlers
holding possession under titles or promises to settle, which
have heretofore been given by said Vigil and St. Vrain, in the
tracts claimed by them, and after deducting the area of all
such tracts from the area embraced in twenty-two square
leagues, the remainder shall be located in two equal tracts,
each of square form, in any part of the tract claimed by the
said Vigil and St. Vrain selected, by them; and it shall be the
duty of the Surveyor General of New Mexico immediately to
proceed to make the surveys and locations arathorized and required by the terms of this section."
The fourth section of the act provides "that the foregoing
confirmation shall only be construed as quitclaims or relinquishments on the part of the United States, and shall not
affect the adverse rights of any other person or persons whomsoever."
This statute was amended by the act of February 25, 1869,
15 Stat. 275, 440, as follows:

CRAIG v. LEITENSDORFER.
Statement of the Case.

"HAxp. XLVII. -An Act to amend an act entitled 'An Act
to conftrm certain Jprivate Land Claims in tke Territory
of New ilexico.'
"Be it enacted by the Senate and HFouse of Representatives
of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That
the exterior lines of the Cornelio Vigil and Cram St. Vrain
claims of eleven leagues each, subject to claims derived from
said parties as confirmed by the act of Congress approved
twenty-first June, eighteen hundred and sixty, United States
Statutes, volume twelve, page seventy-one, shall be adjusted
according to the lines of the public surveys, as nearly as practicable, with the limits of said claims, yet in as compact a form
as possible; and the claims of all actual settlers upon the tracts
heretofore claimed by the said Vigil and St. Vrain, holding
possession under titles or promises to settle, which have been
made by said Vigil and St. Vrain, or their legal representatives,
prior to the passage of this act, who may establish their claims
within one year from the passage of this act, to the satisfaction
of the register and receiver of the proper land district, shall in
like manner be adjusted according to the subdivisional lines of
survey, so as to include the lands so settled upon or purchased,
and the areas of the same shall be deducted and excluded from
the adjusted limits of the claims of said Vigil and St. Vrain respectively; and the claims of all other actual settlers falling
within the limits of the located claims df Vigil and St. Vrain
shall be adjusted to the extent which shall embrace their several settlements upon their several claims being established
either as preemption or homesteads, according to law; and for
the aggregate of the areas of the latter class of claims the said
Vigil and St. Vrain, or their legal representatives, shall be entitled to locate a like quantity of public lands, not mineral,
according to the lines of the public surveys, and not to exceed
one hudred and sixty acres in one section.
"SEc. 2. And'be itfurtherenacted,That it shall be the duty

of the general land Qffice to cause the lines of the public surveys to be run in the regions where a proper location would
place the said Vigil and St. Vrain claims, and that the expense
of the same shall be paid out of any moneys in the treasury

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

not otherwise appropriated; yet, before the confirmation o
the said act of June twenty-first, eighteen hundred and sixty,
,shall become legally effective, the said Vigil and St. Vrain,
or their legal representatives, shall pay the cost of so much of
said surveys as enures to their benefit respectively, and that
all settlers of the said third class, whose claims may be adjusted as valid, shall have the right to enter their improvements by a strict compliance with the preemption or homestead
laws.
"SEc. 3. And be it further enacted, That upon the adjust-

ment of the Vigil and St. Vrain claims according to the provisions of this act, it shall be the duty of the surveyor general
of the district to furnish proper approved plats to said claimants, or their legal representatives, and so in like manner to
said derivative claimants, which shall be evidence of title, the
same to be done according to such instructions as may be
given by the Commissioner of the general land office.
"SEC. 4. And be it further enacted, That immediately upon
running the lines as provided in section second of this act, the
surveyor general of said district shall notify the said Vigil
and St. Vrain, or their agents or legal representatives, of the
fact of such survey being made, and said claimants shall,
within three months after notice of such survey, select and
locate their said claims in accordance with such survey and
the provisions of this act and of the act to which this is amendatory, so far as the same is not changed by this act, and shall
within said time furnish the surveyor general with the description of such location, specifying the lines of the -same. And
the party failing to make such selection and location, in such
manner and within such time, shall be deemed and held to
have abandoned their claim, and their rights and equities'
under this act, and the act to which this is amendatory, shall
cease and terminate.
"SEC. 5. And be it further enacted, That in case of the
neglect or refusal of the said Vigil and St. Vrain, or either
of them, to accept of the provisions of this act, and the act to
which this is amendatory, and to locate their said claim, as
provided therein, no suit shall be brought or proceedings insti-

CRAIG v. LEITENSDORFER.
Statement of the Case.

tuted in any of the courts of the United States, by such party
or by any one claiming through -or under them, to establish
or enforce said claims, or for any cause of action founded
upon the same, after six months from the passage of this act."
The time fixed by § 1 of the last recited act for establishing
the derivative claims was extended by a joint resolution of
April 28, 1870, 16 Stat. 373, 663, by which it was directed
that the act should be so construed "as to authorize the presentation of such derivative claims within one year from the
completion and approval of the subdivisional surveys contemplated by said act of twenty-fifth February, eighteen hundred and sixty-nine."
In pursuance of the act of February 25, 1869, and within
the time limited by the joint resolution of April 28, 1870,
there were presented to Irving W. Stanton and Charles A.
Cook, the register and receiver at Pueblo, Colorado, claims on
behalf of about thirty-nine derivative claimants to lands within
the limits of the Las Animas grant, covering in all more than
183,553N acres; among them was the claim of William Craig
for 127,000 acres, and that of Thomas Leitensdorfer for about
16,000 acres, which were filed on the 23d of October, 1872.
The register and receiver acted upon all the claims, rejecting
that of Leitensdorfer and twenty-two others, amounting to
more than 85,939- W acres. They decided favorably, in whole
or in part, on thirteen claims. To twelve of these claimants
they allowed 241362J9& acres; the remaining 73,251 W acres
were awarded to Craig. The decisions of these officers upon
theae claims bear date February 23, 1874, and were immediately reported to the General Land Office. Nineteen of the
claimants, whose claims had been rejected, and among them
Leitensdorfer, appealed from the decisions in favor of Craig
and against themselves, respectively. The Commissioner of
the General Land Office entertained the appeals, so far as to
decide that an appeal would lie in such cases, and from that
decision Craig appealed from the Commissioner of the General
Land Office to the Secretary of the Interior. This appeal was
entertained, and the Secretary of the Interior rendered a decision sustaining the authority of the Commissioner of the GenVOL. CXxI-13

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

eral Land Office to entertain and determine the appeals from
the register and receiver.
About the 25th of May, 1875, Craig applied to the President
for an order directing that the Surveyor General of Colorado
be reqitired to issue a plat of the survey of the land awarded
to Craig by the decision of the register and receiver. Being
advised by the Attorney General, to whom tlfe matter was
referred, that under the terms of the acts of Congress relating
to the subject the decisions of the register and receiver were
final, from which no appeal would lie to the Commissioner,
15 Opinions Attorneys General 94, the President, on March 2,
1877, made an order directing the Commissioner of the General Land Office to instruct the Surveyor General of Colorado
to deliver to Craig an approved plat of the land adjudged to
him by the register and receiver of the Pueblo land district,
in the State of Colorado, dated February 23, 1874. The
Commissioner of the General Land Office, on March 7, 1877,
instructed the Surveyor General of Colorado to prepare a plat
of the lands specified and awarded by the register and receiver
to Craig.
Before that plat was delivered Leitensdorfer, on May 4,
1877, filed his bill in equity in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Colorado, against William L. Campbell, the Surveyor General of the United States for Colorado,
and Craig. In this bill he set out the matters above stated,
and in addition thereto alleged that his own title *as derived
by mesne conveyances from Eugene Leitensdorfer, to whom
Vigil and St. Vrain had conveyed an undivided one-sixth of
the entire grant to them, which would have amounted to
about 682,724-cl acres if the whole grant had been confirmed,
but which he had reduced to twenty-five sections, amounting
to about 16,000 acres, to correspond with the reduced grant
as confirmed by act of Congress.
The bill further alleged that the reduced tract thus claimed
by the complainant before the register and receiver was in
or near the valleys of the Las Animas or Purgatoire River
and tributaries, in Pueblo land district, Las Animas County,
Colorado, naming and identifying certain sections and half

CRAIG v. LEITENSDORFER.
Statement of the Case.

sections as composing it; and admitted that the claim of the
complainant, as thus reduced, did not conflict on the ground
with the derivative claim of Craig.
The bill further alleged that the complainant produced
evidence before the register and receiver to establish, in addition to the preceding allegations of his bill, "the continuous
inhabitancy and cultivation. of his claim by himself since May,
1862, which inhabitancy and. cultivation still continue."
The bill also alleged that the final delivery by the Surveyor
General of the plat of survey of the derivative claims of Craig,
as ordered by the President, would be merely a ministerial act
of the Surveyor General, and therefore the subject- of an
injunction; that such plats, under § 3 of the act of February
25, 1869, could only issue after the final adjustment of the
whole of said confirmation of twenty-two leagues, and of the
several derivative claims constituting the same, and that said
plats, when so furnished, would be evidence of title, and would
divest the United States of the fee simple in favor of the
derivative claimants receiving such plats; "that the plat ordered to be delivered by the Surveyor General to or for Craig
would leave no part of said confirmation applicable to complainant's claim or the claims of the other derivative claimants
whose appeals are now pending before the Commissioner, and
would, in fact, preclude the Commissioner from considering
the appeals of complainant and of the other derivative claimants; that complainant's 'claim is not in conflict on the ground
with Craig's claim, but is many miles distant, and the mass
of the derivative claims under Vigil and St. Vrain, though
greatly exceeding the quantity confirmed, axe competitors for
area, but not for specific locations; that for these reasons the
delivery of. Craig's plat, or of the plat of any derivative claim
whatever, before the final decision by the Commissioner and
Secretary of the said appeals now pending before the Commissioner, and the final adjustment by them of the whole
mass of said derivative claims, would be against equity and
the rights of complainant and other appellants in said appeals,
and would inflict on complainant and said appellants irreparable injury."

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

The prayer of the bill was for a perpetual injunction to
restrain the delivery of the plat and survey of the derivative
claim of Craig "until the appeals of complainant and of the
dther derivative claimants under them, now pending before
the Commissioner of the General Land Office, shall be tried
and finally and adjudged on their merits, under the direction
of the Secretary of the Interior, according to law, and until it
shall appear by such final judgment that said Craig, or other
derivative claimants under said Vigil and St. Vrain, or either,
are entitled to plats as evidence of title;" and also for an injunction to the same effect in the mean time.
The bill also contained a general allegation to the effect that
the register and receiver were corrupted by Craig, and fraudulently induced to make the award in his fairor.
On the 21st of May, 1877, a temporary injunction was
granted as prayed for, on certain conditions, one of which was,
that the complainant, within thirty days, should "commence
proceedings in the proper court of the District of Columbia,
having for their object an order on the Qeneral Land Office to
hear and determine the.appeals mentioned and described in the
said bill of complaint as having been taken by the said complainant from the decision of the register and receiver of the
land office at Pueblo, in respect to the lands described in the
said bill."
On the 25th of June, 1871, an affidavit was filed showing
that, on the 19th of June, the complainant had caused to be
filed in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, a
petition and affidavit for a mandamus against the Commissioner of the Generil Land Office, praying for a writ commanding him to proceed to hear and determine the said
appeals.
On July 13, 1877, the present cause was heard on a demurrer
to the bill, and on a motion to dissolve the injunction, when
an order was made dissolving the injunction and sustaining
the demurrer, with leave to the complainant to file an amended
and supplemental bill, which he accordingly did. That bill,
filed on October 6, 1877,reciting all the matters contained in
the original bill, alleged in addition that, in the Supreme

CRAIG v. LEITENSDORFER.
Statement of the Case.

Court of the District of Columbia, on July 3, 1877, the motion
of the complainant for a rule on the Commissioner of the General Land Office to show cause why the writ of mandamus
should not issue against him, to require him to proceed with
the hearing of the appeals alleged to be pending before him,
was denied by that court at special term, on the ground, among
others, that no appeal lay to the Commissioner of the General
Land Office from such decisions, and that he did not appeal
from said judgment because he was advised by counsel that no
appeal would lie from such a judgment.
The bill further alleged that, after the dissolution of the
injunction, the Commissioner of the General Land Office
delivered to Craig an approved plat of the survey of the lands
according to the area allowed to him by the register and
receiver at Pueblo.
The bill reiterated the charges'of corruption and fraud as
against Craig and the register and receiver in the original bill,
and further showed, "that, for the reasons hereinbefore stated,
said duplicate plats of defendant Craig are intrinsically illegal
and void ab initio,and that Craig had, or has, no title to said
lands, St. Frain having sold his interest before Craig purchased; that the order of the President, which said plats are
intended to enforce, is, also, for reasons hereinbefore stated,
intrinsically illegal and void ab initio, and was granted under
the erroneous belief by the President that no controversy
existed respecting the quantity of land embraced in said plats;
that said plats were issued in mistake of law and fact, and
leave no land applicable to the derivative claims of your orator
and the other said appellants before the Commissioner of the
General Land Office, and, in fact, prevent him from trying
their appeals now lawfully pending before him, and are in the
nature of a cloud on the titles of your orator and the said
appellants to their respective derivative claims; and that your
orator fears said duplicate plats, if left uncancelled, would
cause irreparable mischief to him and to all the other said appellants before the said Commissioner."
The prayer of the amended bill, therefore, was, that "the
approved plats of the derivative claim of defendant, William

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

Craig, signed by defendant Campbell, on the 26th of May,
1877, be decreed void from the beginning, and that said defendant, William Craig, be forever enjoined from prosecuting
any suit in law or equity on said approved plat or plats as evidence of title, or that Craig be adjudged as holding the same
in trust for plaintiff and other derivative claimants, and that
defendant, William Craig, and agents, and defendant, William
L. Campbell, as United States Surveyor General of Colorado,
and his successors in office, and all under them, be ordered,
within a time to be limited by this court, to deliver the said
plats to the court, and that the said plats be thereupon cancelled, and he -prays for all other general and special relief applicable to the case."
To this amended and supplemental bill, Campbell and Craig
filed separate demurrers. The demurrer of Campbell was sustained, and the bill as to him ordered to be dismissed. The
demurrer of Craig was overruled, and thereupon, on the 7th
of Octoler, 1878, Craig filed his answer to the amended bill.
The answer of Craig denied the title of Leitensdorfer to any
interest in the land, and asserted the title of Craig himself to
the land awarded to him by the decision of the register and
receiver; it denied all charges of fraud and corruption against
them and himself; and claimed that the award and decision
of the register and receiver, under the act of Congress of February 25, 1869, was final and conclusive, subject to no appeal
to the Commissioner of the General Land Office, or to the Secretary of the Interior, and set up the decision and judgment of
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, dismissing the
application for a mandamus, as a conclusive judgment on the
question.
A replication was filed to this answer, and the cause being
put at issue a large amount of proof was taken, consisting of
documentary evidence and the testimony of witnesses.
It further appeared that after the 4th of March, 18V[, when
a new administration came into office, an application was made
to the Secretary of the Interior on behalf of the complainant,
asking for a stay of proceedings under the order of the President, and that the matter might be reopened for hearing be-

CRAIG v. LEITENSDORFER.
Statement of the Case.

fore the Commissioner of the General Land Office on the
appeal from the decision of the register and receiver. This
application was reerred to the Attorney General, who gave
an opinion that the official acts of the officers of -thepreceding
administration could not be reviewed by their successors in
office. 15 Opinions Attorneys General, 208.
On the 8th of January, 1878, a patent was issued by the
United States to William Craig, and to his heirs and assigns
forever, for the land included within the approved plat, in
conformity, as it recited, with § 2447 of the Revised Statutes
of the United States, and with the stipulation that, in virtue
of the provisions of that section, the patent "shall only operate
as a relinquishment of title on the part of the United States,
and shall in no manner interfere with any valid adverse right
to the same land, nor be construed to preclude a legal investigation and decision by the proper judicial tribunal between
adverse claimants to the same land."
On January 30, 1879, before final hearing, the complainant
dismissed the bill and amended bill so far as by the prayer it
was sought to hold the defendant Craig liable as trustee for
the complainant of the title to the lands conveyed to him.
The opinion and decision of the register and receiver in
favor of Craig's claim recited the grounds of the award as follows: "His claim does not rest wholly upon the shadowy
foundation of uncertain and vague promises, but is backed by
conveyances which remove all suspicion or doubt from his
asserted rights, and in our opinion cannot be postponed to any
other claim than those above recited. If his claim rested on
promises to settle. only, it might be said that the promises
dated as far back as 1855, and the month of March of that
year; that he went on the land promised; that he offered his
resignation in the army in consequence of it; that it was not
accepted; that in December, 1862, he was appointed agent for
the grant by St. Vrain, and then again resigned, and was refused acceptance; that in the spring of 1863 he began the
improvement of his land, finally got out of the army in 1864,
and moved on the land, where he has since resided continuously, and has expended $200,000 in improvements thereon;

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Citations for Appellant.

the patent deeds of St. Vrain showing the extent of his rights
-deeds which appear to have been duly recorded soon after
execution - thus preventing any one being deceived as to, the
property claimed by him."
The decision of the register and receiver against the claim
of Leitensdorfer was based upon these grounds, viz. : that
there was no sufficient proof of the paper title by which he
claimed an undivided one-sixth of the original Mexican grant;
"that that paper title, even if proven, would not entitle him to
anything as against actual settlers, but only to one-sixth of
aiiy surplus which might be a~certained after satisfying the
claims of that class; and that Leitensdorfer was not entitled
to claim qs an actual settler, even supposing that he had taken
possession of a particular location, for the reason that he did
not show himself to have acquired that possessory interest
from either of the original grantees.
The cause having proceeded to final hearing, a decree was
entered July 2, 1880, whereby it was "ordered, adjudged and
decreed that the decision or award of the register and receiver
of the land described in the bill and pleadings of date the 23d
of February, 1874, in favor of the defendant, William Craig,
is fraudulent and void; and it is further ordered, adjudged
and decrebd that the patent for the said lands issued to defendant, William Craig, on the 8th day of January, 1878, be
and it is hereby declared and decreed to be null and void;
and that the approved plat or plats delivered to defendant,
William Craig, as evidence of title to the land described in
the bill, by William Campbell, Surveyor General, be and the
same are hereby declared and decreed to be null and void."
From that decree this appeal was prosecuted. Pending the
appeal in.tlhis court, both parties having died, the cause was
revived in the names of their respective personal representatives.
Xfr. Benjamin F. Butlr and M. 0. 1).-Barret for appellant cited: .ndianavoli, Railroad v. Stephens, 28 Ind. 429;
Atwater v. Schenck, 9 Wis. 160; P;iegerv. Exe ange Ins.. Co.,
6 Wis. 89; Butterworth v. Hoe, 112 U. S. 50; United State*

CRAIG v. LEITENSDORFER.
Citations for Appellee.

v. Schurz, 102 U. S. 378; Field v. Seabury, 19 How. 333;
United States v. Throekmorton, 98 U. S. 61, 70; Barribeau
v. Brant, 17 How. 43; Tattier v. Hinde, 7 Pet. 252; Sq?4ire
v. Harder, 1 Paige, 494 [S. 0. 19 Am. Dec. 446]; Learned v.
TItch, 6 Colorado, 432; TWhiting v. Gould, 2 Wis. 552 ; TVright
v. Ellison, 1 Wall.'16; United States v. P~reheman,7 Pet. 51;
United States v. Patterson,15 How. 10; UnitedStates v. Sutter,
21 How. 170; Castrov. Hendricks,23 How. 438; 1eitensdotfer
v. Web, 20 How. 176; i-arye v. Parons,114 U. S. 325; Vernon v: Keyes, 12 East, 632; Johnson v. Towsley, 13 Wall. 72;
'Fan Fyck- v. Iinevals, 106 U. S. 360; Mfoore v. Robbins, 96
U. S. 530; Lytle v. Arkansas, 9 H6w. 314; Cunningham v.
Ashley, 14 How. 377; Barnardv. Ashley, 18 Hol. 43; _Vewhall v. Sanger, 92 U. S.761; FaThce v. Burbank, 101 U. S. 514;
United States v. Stone, 2 Wall. 525, 536; United States v.
.Minor, 114 U. S. 233; United States v. 11ughes, 11 How.
552; Hughes v. United States, 4 Wall. 232; Silver v. Ladd,
7 Wall. 219; Carrollv. Saftord, 3 How. 441; Steel v. Smelting Co., 106 U. S. 447.
.Th. Robert Bt. Bradford and -r. Charles W. Hornorfor
appellee cited: Ober v. Gallagher, 93 U. S. 199; !Yard v.
Todd, 103 U. S. 327; -3cClungv. Silliman, 6 Wheat. 598;
Bagnell v. Broderick, 13 Pet. 436; United States v. Stone,
2 Wall. 525; Johnson v. Towsley, 13 Wall. 72; Warren v.
Van Brunt, 19 Wall. 646; .Jfagwire v. Tyler, 1 Black, 195;
-Maguirev. Tyler, 8 Wall. 650; Snyder v. Sickles, 98 1U. S.
203; Finley v. Williams, 9 Cranch, 164; AeArthur v.
Browder, 4 Wheat. 488; Rector v. Gibbon, 111 U. S. 276;
.Menard v. 1fassey, 8 How. 293; Commissionerv. Whitely, 4
Wall. 522; Gaines v. Thompson, 7 Wall 347; Shepley v.
Cowan, 91 U. S. 330; Moore v. Robbins, 96 U. S. 530; Jones
v. Bolles, 9 Wall 364; Blodget v. Blodget, 42 How. Pr.
(N. Y.) 19; Doe v. -Doe,37 N. H. 268; Sossaman v. Powell, 21
Texas, 664; Zow v. Staples, 2 Nevada, 209; Holland v.
Chalen, 110 U. S. 15; Brenner v. Bigelow, 8 Kansas, 496;
Hendricks v. Montague, 17 Ch. Div. 63$; Barron v. Robbins,
22 Mich. 35; Cunningham v. Ashley, 14 How. 377; Barnard

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

v. Ashley, 18 How. 43; Field v. Seabury, 19 How. 323;
Orton v. Smith, 18 How. 263; Steel v. Smelting Co., 106 U. S.
447; Chapman v. Brewer, 114 U. S. 158; -Livingston v.
foodworth, 15 How. 546; Yeaton v. Lynn, 5 Pet. 223;
Society &c. v. Pawlet, 4 Pet. 480; Conard v. Atlantic Ins.
Co., 1 Pet. 386; United States v. Percheman, 7 Pet. 51;
United States v. Sutter, 21 How. 170; Aforehouse v. Phe~ps,
21 How. 294; -Landes v. Brant, 10 How. 348; HZTornsby v.
United States, 10 Wall. 224; Chouteau v. United States, 9
Pet. 147; -Ex parte Railroad Co., 95 U. S. 221; Jones v.
Axen, 1 Ld. Raym. 119; Railroad Co. v. Smith, 9 Wall. 95;
.ackson v. Clark, 1 Pet. 628; Ruggles v. Illinois, 108 U. S.
526; Iitclfeld v. Register, 9 Wall. 575; United States v.
Ferreira,13 How. 40; League v. De Young, 11 Row. 185;
Decatur v. Paulding, 14 Pet. 497; Polk .v. IWendall, 9
Cranch, 87; Doe v. Iinn, 11 Wheat. 380.
Ar. John Paul Jones, -Mr. . P. Dewe s, and 2Xr. D. W.
.Voorhees, by leave of court filed a brief on behalf of Mrs.
Leann S. King, the purchaser of Leitensdorfer's interest at a
sheriff's sale, citing: Conard v. NVicoll, 4 Pet. 291; United
States v. Arredondo, 6 Pet. 691; TWeitzell v. Fry, 4 Dall. 218;
Leitensdorfer v. Campbell, 5 Dillon, 422; Johnson v. Towsley,
13 Wall. 872; -Moore v. Robbins, 96 U. S. 530; Sleipley v.
Cowan, 91 U. S. 330; Barnardv. Ashley, 18 How. 43; United
States v. Ferreira,13 How. 40; Zellner's Case, 9 Wall. 244;
Atocha's Case, 17 Wall. 439; Butterwo'th v. I7oe, 112 U. S.
50; United States v. Percheman, 7 Pet. 51; United States v.
Sutter, 21 How. 170; Castro v. Hendricks, 23 How. 438;
.Mullan v. United States, 118 U. S. 271; Doe v. Minn, 11
Wheat. 380; Polk v. Wendall, 9 Cranch, 87.

MR. JusTIcE MAITTIIEWs, after stating the case as above
reported, delivered the opinion of the court.
By reference to the provisions of the act of the 21st of June,
1860, 12 Stat. 71, and of the act of the 25th of February, 1869,
15 Stat. 275, it will appear that after the survey of the exte-

CRAIG v. LEITENSDORFER.
Opinion of the Court.

rior lines of the Las Animas grant, the claims first to be provided for were those of all actual settlers holding possession
under "titles or promises to settle" made by Vigil and St.
Vrain, or their legal representatives, prior to the passage of
the act. It was required that those claims, within one year
from the passage of the act, should be established to the satisfaction of the register and receiver of the proper land district,
when they were to be adjusted according to the subdivisional
lines of survey so as to include the lands so settled upon or
purchased. It follows, of course, that these were to be surveys of distinct locations, which might be widely separated
from each other in different parts of the original Mexican
grant, but, of course, within its exterior limits. The grant
itself, however, having been confirmed only to the extent of
twenty-two square leagues, it also follows that these surveys
in their aggregate areas were not to exceed that quantity.
If, however, there were other actual settlers within the limit .
of the original grant to Vigil and St. Vrain, not claiming title
from or under them, but merely by reason of their actual
possession, their several settlements might be established
either as preemption rights or homesteads, according to law,
but the quantities were not to be deducted from the twentytwo square leagues. If any part of this quantity of twentytwo square leagues should remain unexhausted by the claims
of actual settlers holding possession under "titles or promises
to settle" made by Vigil and St. Vrain, and, therefore, called
in this record "derivative claims," any such surplus was to be
located in two equal tracts, each of square form, in any part
of the tract covered by the original grant, for the benefit of
Vigil and St. Vrain, and their assigns or representatives.
It is conceded by all parties to this record, that, in point of
fact, the claims of the first class, including Craig's, "beingthose
of actual settlers holding possession under titles or promises
to settle made by Vigil and St. Vrain, exhausted the whole
quantity of the grant as confirmed and reduced to twenty-two
square leagues. The controversy now is, therefore, confined
to the conflicting claims of this class.
It is further to be observed that the complainant Leitens-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

dorfer lays no claim to any part of the lands embraced in the
survey and plat, and covered by the patent issued to Craig;
be does not allege or complain that any lands belonging in
equity to him were awarded to another; he admits that he
was not an actual settler upon, and held no possession of, any
part of that tract. On the contrary, the possession which he
does allege, and the title which he asserts, have reference to
another and distinct tract of land, which, as he alleges, lies
within the exterior boundaries of the original Las Animas
grant, but several miles distant from any part of the tract
allotted and patented to Craig. He, therefore, does not claim,
as a part of his case in equity, that Craig holds the legal title
to any lands in trust for him. The prayer of the amended
bill, so far as it asserted any right to such relief, was expressly
withdrawn, and has been abandoned by counsel in argunent.
The case presented, therefore, by the complainant is not
one of that class, of which many instances may be found in
the reports of the decisions of this court, where a defendant
holding the legal title under a patent from the United States
has been declared to hold that legal title merely as trustee for
a complainant with a superior equity, and decreed to hold for
or to convey to the true owner. The right of the complainant in this case to relief is supposed to rest upon different
grounds. The injury which he alleges is, that Craig wrongfully obtained from the register and receiver an award of lands
to which he had no right-fful claim, whereby the whole quantity of the confirmed grant has been reduced and absorbed, so
as t6 exclude the complainant from that share to which he
was entitled. The wrong of which he complains is, that Craig
fraudulently and corruptly procured the award and decision
of the register and receiver in his own behalf, and against
L.Atensdorfer, and that the latter has been illegally cut off
from his right to appeal from the decision of the register and
receiver in favor of Craig and against himself, by the illegal
and unauthorized issue and delivery to Craig by the Surveyor
General of the approved plat of the survey of the lands
awarded to him, confirmed by the subsequent issue of a formal
patent, relinquishing the title of the United States to the same

CRAIG v. LEITENSDORFER.
Opinion of the Court.

tract. This is a short, but accurate, statement of the complainant's case as he presents it for examination and analysis, and
for which we are to seek a rule of decision.
The fraud and corruption alleged against Craig, and which,
for the purpose of the case, we are at present to assume to
have been proved, as it was in fact found by the decree
appealed from, do not necessarily vitiate Craig's claim of title,
nor establish that of Leitensdorfer. The charge is that Craig
bribed the register and receiver to m'ike the award which
they did in his favor. It may, nevertheless, be true that the
award ought to so have been made upon the merits. So the
register and receiver may have been right in rejecting the claim
of Leitensdorfer. This possibility is tacitly admitted, for the
bill does not ask a declaration and decree that Craig has no
valid claim, nor a decree establishing the claim ,of Leitensdorfer; and it is plainly not within the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court to grant any such relief, even if it were asked.
The ascertainment of what persons came within the descriph
tion of actual settlers under titles or promises to settle upon
the Las Animas grant, and the proper limits of their actual
settlement and possession, and the adjustment thereof by
suitable surveys, were entrusted by the acts of Congress on
that subject in the first instance to the determination of the
register and receiver of the proper land district, and in case
by law an appeal lies from their decision, then to those superior
officers in the Land Office and the Department of the Interior,
to whom such an appeal might be taken. The adjustment of
these claims and their definition by the prescribed surveys
and plats, establishing them in their appropriate locations
within the limits of the original grant, and all questions of
possession, of boundary, and of conflict, constitute a part of
the administration of the law confided to that branch of the
Executive Department. The free course of that administration within the limits of the law cannot be interrupted or
interfered with by the judicial power. Undoubtedly, private
rights of great value and importance may be involved, and
the exercise of executive discretion may require decisions in
favor of some and against others in a conflict of interests and

OCTOBER TERMI,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

claims.

But, as all these claims and titles and interests arise

under the law which refers their settlement to executive officers, that reference is itself a condition and qualification of
the right, and the latter is altogether subject to its consequences. When the Department has exercised its discretion
and exhausted its function, the legal and equitable effect of
what it has done or failed to do may be drawn in question,
when necessary to the determination of conflicting rights between private parties, in a judicial proceeding; but as long
as the alleged rights, which are the subject 6f contention, axe
in the course of adjudication by the special tribunal, to whici
they are referred for settlement, the function of that tribunal
cannot be displaced by courts of justice. And what the complainant in this case really asks for as his ultimate relief is,
that the way may be cleared for him to the exercise of the
right of appeal, which he claims, from the adverse decision of
the register and receiver, to the Commissioner of the General
Land Office, by the removal of those obstructions which he
alleges have been illegally interposed against him by the issue
of the-approved survey and plat by the Surveyor General of
Colorado upon the order of the President, in disregard and
denial of his right of appeal, and the subsequent issue of the
patent, in consequence of which the Commissioner of the General Land Office and the Secretary of the Interior have decided
that they are precluded from now entertaining the complainant's appeal. It is supposed.that these obstructions are removed
by the decree of the Circuit Court, which adjudges that the
decision and award of the register and receiver in favor of
Craig is fraudulent and void, and annuls and declares void the
approved plat, delivered to Craig by the Surveyor General of
Colorado, and the patent issued to him for the same lands.
The decree seeks to destroy the foundation and muniments of
Craig's title to the particular lands described in the plat and
patent,-but it does not award those lands to any one else, and
it does 'Pot assume to7 establish the title of Leitensdorfer to
those which he claims. What is the effect of this decree?
In any action brought by a stranger to this record against
Craig for the recovery of the lands covered by his patentpthis

CRAIG v. LEITENSDORFER.
Opinion of the Court.

decree could not operate as evidence against him; it can only
be effective by way of estoppel, and a stranger to the record
cannot avail himself of an estoppel by which he is not himself
bound. Nor can the decree be supposed to operate upon the
record of the survey and plat and of the decision of the register and receiver as they remain recorded in the Land Department, so as to render them null and void as if they had never
existed, and bind and oblige the officers of the Department of
the Interior to proceed in the administration of the law with
reference to these lands as if nothing. of that sort had taken
place.

The decree operates only iapersonamand interpartes.

The courts could have no control of the public records of the
Land Department, nor supervision over the conduct of its
officers, otherwise than as it can be exercised in appropriate
cases by the writ of mandamus; besides which, to annul the
decision of the register and receiver, if that were possible,
would be to destroy the foundation of the complainant's
appeal and restore the matter to the condition in which it
was when all the claims were pending before the register and
receiver. This result is Lot within the scope of the complainant's bill.
If, on the other hand, the operation of the decree is limited
so as to cancel and annul the approved plat delivered by the
Surveyor General, and the patent issued thereupon, leaving
the decision of the register and receiver to stand as the subject of an appeal to the Commissioner of the General Land
Office, supposed to be still pending, the case of the complainant for equitable interference does not seem to be bettered.
For, in that event, what power has the Circuit Court, sitting
in Colorado as a court of equity, to enforce and make effective
te complainant's supposed right of appeal? The decree does
not operate upon the officers whose action is invoked as necessary to secure the complainant's alleged rights. The process
of a court of equity is not appropriate to the exigency, and
the Circuit Court of the United States in Colorado has no
jurisdiction, either at law or in equity, over the officers of the
Land Department to compel them to entertain the appeal.
Neither is there reason to suppose that the Land Department

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

will on the basis of such a decree, Suae sponte, proceed with the
appeal as pending, or take such action on the application of
the complainant.
The ground on which Mr. Schurz, as Secretary of the
Interior, upon the advice of the Attorney Greneral, Mr. Devens,
declined to reopen and rehear the case was that the matter
had been finally acted upon by his predecessor in office. 15
Opinions Attorneys General, 208. That fact remains, notwithstanding a decree in this case declaring the survey and plat
and patent to Craig to be illegal and invalid. Such a declaration and decree operate only in the case and between the
parties to this record. It does not operate, as has been already
stated, upon the publ-c records of the Land Department in
which they are recorded, nor does it bind and oblige the
executive officers of the government in control of that department. Such a decree, therefore, would grant to the complainant no practical relief; it would be vain and nugatory.
The ground which it is claimed in argument justifies such
a decree is, that, pending Leitensdorfer's appeal to the Commissioner of the General Land C fice, the delivery by the
Surveyor General of the approved survey and plat, under the
order of the President, was illegal and void, and that by
reason thereof the subsequent issue of the patent could not
operate as a confirmation or conveyance of the title. But if
the order of the President, interrupting the course of the
appeal in the Land Department, and the action of the officers
of that department in compliance with it, were illegal and
therefore void, they were and are of no force and efficacy,
either at law or in equity, and are not binding on any succeeding incumbents of the offices of Commissioner of the General
Land Office or Secretary of the Interior. It follows that the
ea.se of the complainant, based upon his right to prosecute his
appeal, is as complete without such a decree as with it. If
the duty of the Commissioner of the General Land Office to
entertain and determine that appeal exists as contended, it is
a legal duty. That duty is to take up, consider, and adjudge
the rights of the parties in interest, and the entertaining of
the appeal is a purely ministerial act, although the questions

CRAIG v. LEITENSDORFER.
Opinion of the Court.

to be considered in the course of that appeal are to be
resolved by the exercise of official discretion and judgment.
Nevertheles, it is quite clear, as it has been oftentimes
decided, that the duty of entering upon their consideration
and proceeding to their determination, is strictly ministerial.
The remedy in such cases is at law, by means of a writ of
mandamus, and not in equity. E _parte Parker, 12b U. S.
137; .Thw parte Brown, 116 U. S. 401. If, to such a writ,
issued by a competent court, the officer should make return
that he was precluded from entertaining the appeal by reason
of the prior action of a predecessor in office, under the order
of the President, the question of the sufficiency of that return
would be presented to the court issuing the writ, and would
involve necessarily the adjudication of the question§ mooted
in this case. If such a return should, in such a tribunal, be
adjudged to be sufficient, then the complainant would be
without remedy, for the right which he claims, if it exists, is
a legal right cognizable in courts of law, and not a right resting upon any equity within the jurisdiction of chancery courts.
If, on the other hand, su-,h a return in such a .proceeding
should be adjudged to be insufficient, then the complainant
would have the remedy which he is here seeking, by a direct
and effective process binding upon the parties whose conduct
he is seeking to control. In either alternative, therefore, it is
equally conclusive that the complainant cannot obtain, in this
cause, the relief which he seeks, and which alone is adequate
to the redress of the wrong of which he complains.
This conclusion is not disturbed or affected by the assumption that the decision and award of the register and receiver
was obtained by corrupt and fraudulent practices for which
Craig is responsible. The right of appeal from that decision
to the Commissioner of .the General Land Office, if it exists in
any case, is not hindered by the fraudulent character of the
decision appealed from, and the appeal itself is the mode
pointed out by law for the correction of any error that may
be shown in the decision complained of, whether that error
has been produced by the practice of fraud and corruption,
or was merely an honest mistake. The proof of such fraud
voL. Cxxm-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

and corruption does not, as has been already stated, demonstrate error. The decision: may be right, notwithstanding the
fraud, and on the appeal Craig's title, as it now stands upon
the approved survey and plat and the patent, may be adjudged
to be valid, and any error in it we must assume will be
corrected, whether fraudulent or innocent. The question of
fraud, therefore, alleged against Craig and the register and
receiver, in view of the relief asked, is immaterial.
There is an alternative in which it might be supposed that
the question of fraud in procuring the decision of the register
and receiver, and thereby obtaining the muniments of title on
which Craig's claim now rests, might become materiel for
determination in a judicial cause. That alternative is the supposition, contrary to that on which the complainant rests his
case, that the decision of the register and receiver, the issue of
the approved survey and plat, and of the patent based thereon,
are final and conclusive upon the Department of the Interior,
and not subject to the appeal taken to the Commissioner of
the General Land Office. It may be asked whether such a
determination of inferior officers of the Land Department,
involving private rights and interests of great magnitude and
value, infected with fraud, is to be protected from attack by
judicial process. We are told that "equity has always had
jurisdiction of fraud, misrepresentation, and concealment, and
it does not depend upon discovery." Jones v. Bolles, 9 Wall.
364, 369. That equity will interfere by a proper proceeding
where the executive power has exhausted itself. Commis8ioner v. TFhiteley, 4 Wall. 522; Gaines v. Thompson, 7 Wall.
347; Litchfleld v. Register and Receiver, 9 Wall. 575 ; Samson
v. Sriley, 13 Wall. 91; Johnson v. Towsley, 13 Wall. 72;
Warren v. Van Brnunt, 19 Wall. 646. That "the officers of
the Land Department are specially designated by law to receive, consider, and pass upon proofs presented with respect to
settlements upon the public lands with a view-to secure rights
of preemption. If they err in the construction of the law
applicable to any case, or if fraud is practised upon them, or
they themselves are chargeable with fraudulent practices, their
rulings may be reviewed and annulled by the courts when a

CRAIG v. LEITENSDORFER.
Opinion of the Court.

controversy arises between private parties founded upon their
decisions."

Shepky v. Cowan, 91 U. S. 330, 340; M-oare v.

Robbin, , 96 U. S. 530. This doctrine is undoubtedly true, but
its limitation is found in the statement that such rulings "may
be reviewed and annulled by the courts when a controversy
arises between parties founded upon their decisions." The
jurisdiction to determine such questions does not arise in the
courts of the United States by virtue of any power of supervision given to them whereby they have a right to control, to
correct, to reverse, and to dictate the procedure and action of
executive officers within the scope of the duties confided to
them by law. :No such power of revision is given, and none
such can be exercised. Such a function is not judicial; it is
administrative, executive, and political in its nature. The abstract right to interfere in such cases has been uniformly denied
by judicial tribunals, as breaking down the distinction so iniportant and well defined in our system between the several,
separate, and independent branches of the government; and
where the character of the interference sought falls within
that designation, the application for it has been uniformly
denied.
The case is different in a litigation between parties involving
a contest of conflicting claims, where under some known head
of jurisdiction definite relief or redress may be conclusively
administered in favor of one and against the other party. In
such cases, the right at law or in equity belongs to one or the
other of the contestants; to which of the two it should be
awarded is the judicial question involved. The solution of
that question may depend upon the effect to be given, either
at law ori in equity, to some action or determination of the
executive officers charged in the first instance with duties of
administration in connection with the subject of the litigation,
such as, for example, the officers of the Land Department in
the administration of the system of law in reference to the
public domain of the United States. It is in such cases that
the question has most frequently arisen. In those cases it has,
indeed, been held, as claimed, that if the executive officer has
made a mistake of law in his administration; if he has exer-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

cised power without authority of law; if his determination
has been procured by the fraudulent practices of one party
upon the officer or upon the opposite party; or if the officer
has himself fraudulently decided in favor of one and against
the other, a court of justice will give effect to the rights of the
parties as between themselves, notwithstanding the errors and
the frauds alleged and shown. The principle is that "the
decision of the officers of the Land Department, made within
the scope of their authority on questions of this kind, is in
general conclusive everywhere, except when reconsidered by
way of appeal within that department; and that as to the
facts on which their decision is based, in the absence of fraud
or mistake, that decision is conclusive even in courts of justice
when the title afterwards co~nes in question. But that in this
class of cases, as in all others, there exists in the courts of
equity the jurisdiction to correct, mistakes, to relieve against
frauds and impositions, and, in cases where it is clear that
those officers have by a mistake of the law given to one man
the land which on the undisputed facts belonged to another,
to give appropriate relief." 3foore v. .Robbin. 96 U. S. 530,
535; Sltepley v. Cowan, 91 U. S. 330; Johnson v. Towsley, 13
Wall. 72; .Iarquez v. Frisbie, 101 U. S. 473; Vance v.
Burbank, 101 U. S. 514; Quinby v. Conlan, 104 U. S. 420,
425; WUte v. Cannon, 6 Wall. 443; Silver v. Ladd, 7 Wall.
219, 228.
In Smelting Co. v. Kemp, 104 U. S. 636, 647, it was said:
"If in issuing a patent its officers took mistaken views of the
law, or drew erroneous conclusions from the evidence, or acted
from imperfect views of their duty, or even from corrupt
motives, a court of law can afford no remedy to a party alleging that he is thereby aggrieved. He must resort to a court
of equity for relief, and even there his complaint cannot be
heard unless he connect himself with the original source of
title, so as to be able to aver that his rights are injuriously
affected by the existence of the patent; and he must possess
such equities as will control the legal title in the patentee's
hands."
And in Silver v. 1add, 7 Wall. 219, 228, the doctrine was

CRAIG v. LEITENSDORFER.
Opinion of the Court

stated in these terms: "The relief given in this class of cases
does not proceed upon the ground of annulling or setting aside
the patent wrongfully issued. That would leave the title in
the United States, and the plaintiff might be as far fiom ob-

taining justice as before. And it may be well doubted whether
the patent can be set aside without the United States being a
party to the suit. The relief granted is founded on the theory
that the title which has passed from the United States to the
defendant enured in equity to the benefit of the plaintiff; and
a court of chancery gives effect to this equity, according to its
forms, in several ways."
But if the court, by reason of other circumstances, is powerless to adjust and adjudge with final and conclusive effect the
opposing claims of the litigating parties, so as to award to one
what has been wrongfully given to another, then the mere
circumstance that the official act of the executive authority is
challenged for error of law or for fraud does not and cannot
constitute the ground of an independent jurisdiction. It is
only as necessarily incident to the proper decision of a case at
law or in equity between parties regularly in court for a determination of their rights, as between themselves, that such ques,
tions can be discussed or decided. Where the whole force of
the judgient is spent upon a mere declaration that the act in
question is void for want of authority, or voidable by reason
of being infected with fraud, and it cannot consistently with
known principles of law or equity go further by changing the
relations between the parties to the suit towards each other,
or towards the subject-inatter of the litigation, the case is not
judicial. This is precisely the present case. Here a declaration by a decree that the decision of the register and receiver
was fraudulent, and therefore voidable; that the action of the
President in ordering the issue of the approved survey and
plat by the Surveyor General of Colorado, and its delivery in
pursuance thereof, and the subsequent issue of the patent to
Craig, were without warrant of law, and therefore void absolutely, does not decide the controversy raised by Leitensdorfer,
nor settle and adjudge the rights of any of the parties thereto.
Nor does it, as we have already shown, remove any obstacles

OCTOBER TER]I, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

which have been wrongfully and unjustly interposed by the
defendant to the prosecution in another forum of the rights
which the complainant seeks to recover. It is entirely inefficacious for any such result, because, as already intimated, if
the acts complained of are, as complainant contends, void as
being without authority of law, then they can have no legal
effect whatever, and cannot be set up by the officers of the
Department of the Interior, as reasons for refusing to entertain
and determine the appeals of Leitensdorfer from the decision
of the register and receiver to the Commissioner of the General Land Office. If, in point of fact, such a right of appeal is
secured to him by the law, and the officer whose duty it is to
hear and determine it refuses without just reason so to do, the
proper remedy is by a writ of mandamus, and not by a bill in
equity.
But it is shown in this record that Leitensdorfer, in pursuance of an interlocutory order of the Circuit Court, and as a
condition on which the original injunction was granted, in
Jfune, 1877, made his application to the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia for a mandamus against the Commissioner
of the General Land Office, to require him to proceed with the
hearing of the appeals alleged to be pending before him, and
that his application was denied by that court; and he alleges
that he did not appeal from that judgment, because he was
advised by counsel that no appeal would lie from such a judgment; but this is not sufficient to confer jurisdiction upon a
court of equity. We are not called upon in this cause to decide
whether the judgment of the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia at special term is or is not erroneous, nor whether
an appeal would lie from it, nor whether by law Leitensdorfer
is entitled to be heard before the Commissioner of the General
Land Office upon his appeal from the decision of the register
and receiver. What we do say, and all we say, is that if he is
entitled to such an appeal his remedy is not by a bill in equity.
For these reasons tMe decree of the Circuit Court is reversed,
and the cause 'remanded,with instructions"to dismiss the
bX ; and it is so ordered.

