RICHTER v. JEROME.
Syllabus.

of its provisions, has no application to suits in the Court of
Claims against the United States. An individual, may waive
such a defence, either expressly or by failing to plead the
statute; but the Government has not expressly or by implication conferred authority upon any of its officers to waive
the limitation imposed by statute upon suits against the United
States in the Court of Claims. Since the Government is not
liable to be sued, as of right, by any claimant, and since it
has assented to a judgment being rendered against it only in
certain classes of cases, brought within a prescribed period
after the cause of action accrued, a judgment in the Court of
Claims for the amount of a claim which the record or evidence
shows to be barred by the statute, would be erroneous.
The judgment is
-Affirmed.

RICHTER v. JEROME.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
Argued October 20, 18ST.- Decided November 7,1887.
If the trustee in a deed of trust in the nature of a mortgage acts In good
faith in foreclosing it, and obtains a decree of foreclosure and sale,
whatever binds the trustee in the proceedings which are begun and carried on to enforce the trust, binds the cestuis que trust as if they were
actual parties to the suit.
If, in a suit in equity by the trustee in a deed of trust in the nature of a
mortgage to foreclose the mortgage the decree or the sale is obtained in
fraud of the rights of the cestuis que trust, their remedy is a direct proceeding to set aside the sale or the decree and proceed anew with another
foreplosure; and not an attempt to reforeclose what had been fully foreclosed before, under a decree which remains in force.
On the facts alleged in the complainant's bill and set forth in the opinion
of the court: Held, that the complainant is not entitled to the relief
prayed for in his bill, and that the decree of foreclosure obtained by the
corporation trustee, under the mortgage of which he is a cestui que trust,
binds him.

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

Tins was a suit in equity brought by Morris Richter, the
appellant, and the case made by the bill and its exhibits was
in substance this:
In 1864 the Portage Lake and Lake Superior Ship-Canal
Company was organized as a corporation under the laws of
Michigan to build a ship-canal from the most westerly point
of Portage Lake through a neck of land, called" The Portage,"
to Lake Superior. In 1865 - and 1866 Congress made two
grants of land to the State of Michigan, of 200,000 acres each,
to aid in this work, and both these grants were tranferred by
the State to the canal company. The conipany afterwards
executed three mortgages on the lands so granted, .to secure
bonds amounting in all to $2,000,000.
On the 3d of March, 1863, Congress granted the State other
lands, containing in the aggregate 220,000 acres and upwards, to
aid in building a military road, called in the pleadings a" wagon
road," from Fort Wilkinson, Copper Harbor, Michigan, to
Fort Howard, Green Bay, Wisconsin. By the terms of this
grant thirty sections could be sold at once, and thereafter thirty
sections as each ten miles of road was completed. If the road
was not completed in five years no further sales could be made,
and the unsold lands were to revert to the United States. 12
Stat. 798, c. 104, ยง 3. On the 6th of May, 1870, this time was
extended until January 1, 1872. 16 Stat. 121, c. 93.
In 1868, Francis W. Anthony contracted with the State to
build the road, and in consideration thereof was to receive "all
the benefits, emoluments, rights and interests arising from"
the land grant. He was to have at once the first thirty sections authorized to be sold, and as any continuous ten miles
(afterwards changed to two miles) was completed he was
"entitled to apply for and receive a certificate for the number
of sections granted to aid in the construction " thereof. In
August, 1870, thirty miles of the road had been completed,
and 47,958 lh acres of land were conveyed to him therefor in
fee.
In November, 1870, as is alleged in the bill, about eighty
miles of the road had been completed, and 153,000 acres of
land earned, including that which had been patented, but

RICHTER v. JEROME.
Statement of the Case.

Anthony had exhausted his financial resources and credit, and
was in debt to the amount of $30,000. Being in this condition he went to New York to get money. While there, as is
alleged, he entered into a verbal arrangement with the stockholders and directors of the canal company to raise the necessary funds to complete both the canal and the road, by which
he was to transfer to Perez J. Avery, Alfred Wild, J. Edwin
Conant, and William L. Avery all his rights under the road
contract, including the 47,958,8% acres patented lands; the
canal company was to change its name to the Lake Superior
Ship-Canal, Railroad and Iron Company; the directors of the
canal company, as individuals, were to subscribe $2,000,000
to its capital stock, and pay their subscription by their warranty
deed of 200,000 acres of the road lands; and thereupon the
canal company was to issue bonds to the amount of $3,500,000,
secured by a mortgage to the Union Trust Company of New
York, "to raise money for the Portage Lake Canal enterprise
and for the wagon-road enterprise."
On the 25th of April, 1871, Anthony entered into a contract
with Perez J. Avery, Alfred Wild, J. Edwin Conant, and
William L. Avery, by which he agreed to sell to them, and
they agreed to buy from him, all the wagon-road lands at
seventy-five cents an acre, to be paid for as follows :
"Thirty-six thousand ($36,000) dollars within thirty days
from this date.
"Eight thousand (88000) dollars by the fifth day of June.
"Eight thousand ($8000) dollars by the fifth day of 'July.
"Eight thousand (88000) dollars by the fifth day of August.
"Eight thousand (88000) dollars by the fifth day of September.
"Eight thousand ($8000) dollars by the fifth day of October.
"Eight thousand ($8000) dollars by the fifth day of November; all in the year 1871, and the balance in three payments;
one of one-quarter of the whole amount, in six months from
November first, 1871 ; and one of like amount, payable on the
first of November, 1872; and the other of one-half the whole
amount, payable on the first day of November, 1873; the last
three payments to be secured by the joint and several notes of

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

the parties of the second part, with the bonds of the Lake
Superior Ship-Canal iRailroad and Iron Company, at sixty per
cent, assigned as collateral to said notes."
The contract of Anthony for building the, road was transferred by him to the purchasers, "with all the rights, privileges,
powers, and claims arising from the same," and he agreed to
convey all the lands for which he then held patents as soon as
the $36,000 were paid. .The lands which had been earned
and not patented, amounting, with those patented, to 150,000
acres, "more or less," were to be conveyed as soon as title
should be obtained, and Anthony was to go on and complete
the road and convey the remainder of the lands as fast as they
were earned and he got title thereto. Upon the execution of
a deed for the lands which had already been earned, but not
then patented, the purchasers were to assign to Anthony, as
security for the six monthly payments of $8000 each, $72,000,
at par, of the bonds of the canal company, he agreeing to surrender $12,000 of them as each monthly payment of $8000
was made. Upon the conveyance of the lands which had not
then been earned, but which were to be earned by the completion of the road, the purchasers were to execute notes for
the price, in accordance with the terms of their agreement, and
secure them with the bonds of the canal company, at 60 per
cent on the face value of such bonds.
On the first of May, 1871, Perez J. Avery, Alfred Wild, and
J. Edwin Conant, three out of the four purchasers of the lands
from Anthony under this contract, executed a deed to the
canal company, in which, after reciting that they were the
owners in fee of 220,000 acres of land granted to the State of
Michigan to build the road, and had subscribed for five hundred shares of the capital stock of the company, to be paid
for. by a conveyance of 200,000 acres of such land, they did,
in consideration of the stock, convey to the compafly in fee
simple, with full covenants of warranty, "all and singular those
two hundred and twenty thousand acres of land, being the
same granted by act of Congress of the United States, entitled
'An act granting lands to the States of Michigan and Wisoonsin, to aid in the construction of a military road from YFort

RICHTER v. JEROME.
Statement of the Case.

Wilkinson, Copper Hlarbor, Keweenaw County, in the State
of Michigan, to Fort Howard, Green Bay, in the State of
Wisconsin,' approved March 3d, 1863; which said lands are

fully described and designated on the maps and record books
of the office of the register of the land office at Marquette,
Michigan, and to which records and maps reference is hereby
made for a fuller and more perfect description of said lands,
saving and reserving from the operation of this deed twenty
thousand acres of land, to be selected by taking the sections
reserved in their order as they come, commencing at the Wisconsin state line, and taking the sections on both sides of said
road far enough north to get twenty thousand acres of land."
On the same day that this deed was delivered, the company
executed to the Union Trust Company of iNew York a deed
of trust covering the two land grants to the canal company,
"and also two hundred thousand acres of land situate, lying,
and being in said State of Michigan, subscribed to the capital
stock of the party of the first part, and fully and particularly
described in a full covenant deed made by Perez J. Avery,
Alfred Wild, and J. Edwin Conant, and their wives, dated on
the first day of May, A.D. 1871, conveying said last-mentioned
twor hundred thousand acres of land" to secure a proposed
issue of bonds to the amount of $3,500,000. Of this amount
of bonds $1,300,000 were issued by the trustee to the directors
of the canal company with the usual certificate of security
thereon. The bill then alleged that the directors of the canal
company and Anthony, upon the faith and credit of these
bonds, raised in open market $36,000, in money, which was
paid over to Anthony on his contract for the sale of the lands,
and afterwards $16;000 more which was used in the same
way. The remainder of the $1,300,000 "were sold or pledged
in the open market of New York, and elsewhere, and money
raised thereupon and applied to the use and benefit of said
Lake Superior Ship-Canal Railroad and Iron Company."
On the 25th of May, 1872, a bill was filed against the canal
company for the foreclosure of its mortgage on the lands embraced in the first Congressional grant, and on the 3d of
July, 1872, for the foreclosure of that on the lands in the sec-

OCTOBER TERMI,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

ond grant. On the 5th of July, 1872, another bill was filed
for the foreclosure of the third mortgage executed by the
company, which covered all the lands in both grants. Then,
on the 19th of June, 1875, the Union Trust Company filed its
bill to foreclose the mortgage which was executed to that
company May 1, 1871, and covered both the land grants and
the 200,000 acres embraced in the conveyance of Avery, Wild,
and Conant. The same solicitor appeared for the plaintiff in
each of the several foreclosure suits. On the 27th of August,
1872 , the canal company was declared a bankrupt, and thereafter George Jerome and Fernando C. Beaman, its assignees,
became parties to the litigation.
In the bill filed by the Union Trust Company for the foreclosure of its mortgage, the issue of the $1,300,000 of bonds
was set out, and the following allegations made in respect to
the "wagen-road lands," so called:
"That of the 200,000 acres mortgaged to the complainant,
in addition to said 400,000 acre land grants, it is claimed that
acres, and that
said company has no title, save to 41,958the title to the remainder has been patented to other parties.
Complainant annexes hereto a list of said last named lafids, to
Complainwit, of said 47,95S acres, marked Exhibit 'C.'
ant is informed and believes that said lands are worth about
$3.00 per acre, or about $150,000; that said lands are known
as the ' wagon-road lands,' and wsre acquired from the State
of Michigan by one Francis W. Anthony, and were cc:iveyed
to said bankrupt company mortgagee. Exhibit ' C' is a copy
of the list on file in the office of the Secretary of State of )ifichigan, being certificate of purchase No. 1 of military road land
under act No. 20 of the laws of 1864, approved February 4th.
That March 4th, 1873, Henry S. Wells, a bondholder secured
by complainant's said mortgage, filed his bill in this court,
impleading, among others, said Francis W. Anthony, said
assignees, and this complainant, and sought by said bill to
subject the said ' wagon-road lands,' other than said 47,958fs
acres, to the lien of complainant's mortgage, g-nd to prevent
their conveyance by the State to third parties, and afterwards
such proceedings were had that the relief sought was denied.

RICHTER v. JEROME.
Statement of the Case.

That in article ten of a cross-bill, filed by 'said assigniees in this
court September 18th, 1873, said assignees state that certain
stockholders of said bankrupt had contracted to buy lands to
the amount of 200,000 acres, parcel of a larger amount granted
by the State of Michigan for the construction of a military
.wagon-road, and, assuming to be owners, had conveyed the
same to the said bankrupt; that said grantors had acquired
title to only about 49,000 acres, and only about that amount
became vested in said bankrupt, and that the residue had been
patented by the State of Michigan to other parties and lost to
said corporation, and that said assignees made the same statement substantially in their answer to a bill by this complainant
to foreclose said mortgage in the said district court, which bill
was discontinued."
The prayer, so far as it related to the road lands, was, "that
said 4-7,958 f% acres of land known as 'wagon-road landsI may
also be sold; and that all the estate, right, title, and interest
of the defendants in the rest and residue of said 200,000 acres
of wagon-road lands may be sold," and the proceeds applied
to the payment of the outstanding bonds. The decree, which
was entered March 18, 1877, established the lien of the Union
Trust Company mortgage on the 47,958 -5 acres of wagonroad lands to which the canal company had title, and, as to
the rest, found as follows : "That the title to the remainder
of said wagon-road lands passed from the State of Michigan
to third parties, so that, as to the same, the. said Union Trust
mortgage qovers only a possible equity, which equity in the
residue of said 200,000 acres of wagon-road lands, is also a
security for said 1300 bonds." It was then ordered, among
other things, that "the equity of redemption or other right or
interest of said mortgagor corporation in the residue of said
wagon-road lands" be sold with the other mortgaged prnperty.
including the 47,958 sd acres, to pay the bonds.
Under this decree the mortgaged property was sold in June
or July of 1877 to Albon P. Man and Nathaniel Wilson, and
this sale confirmed in due course of practice. Soon afterwards,
'Man and Wilson released to James C. Ayer, then in life, but
since deceased, the right to or equity of redemption in all the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

200,000 acres of wagon lands which had not been actually
conveyed to Anthony, and by him to the purchasers from him,
and by them to the canal company.
The present bill.was filed on the 12th of July, 1882, by
Morris Richter,,as "the holder, as purchaser in good faith," of
two hundred and thirty of the thirteen hundred bonds secured
by the Union Trust Company mortgage, against the Union
Trust Company, the assignees in bankruptcy of the canal comany, and the widow, heirs, devisees, and trustees under the
will of Ayer, then deceased. Richter had received on each of
his bonds from the master the sum of nine dollars as his share
of the proceeds of the,Union Trust Company foreclosure. 'No
other payment of principal or interest had ever been maqe.
The bill charged in substance that Theodore Mv.Davis, receiver
of the Ocean National Bank, being the holder of 910 of the
various issues of the bonds of the canal company as security
for a debt of the company to the bank of about fifty per cent
of the-face of the -bonds, J. Boorman Johnston & Co. holding
200 of one of the issues of bonds as security for a debt of the
company of about eighty per cent of the amount of the bonds,
and James C. Ayer & Co., of which James C. Ayer was the
principal proprietor, holding 760 of the various issues of bonds
as security for a debt of the company of about fifty per cent
of the amount of the bonds, formed a syndicate at the instance
of Dais, and "agreed to pool their bonds and debts aforesaid
for the common interest of said syndicate, and to run down
the valne of said bonds upon the market, and to wreck the
enterprise aforesaid." By the fraud and connivance of the
members of this sy; _'cate, as is alleged, "the legal title to the
whole of said pledged bonds was procured," before Mlay 27,
1872, "at a mere 'fraction of their. face value." This being
.done, the syndicate, on the 27th of May, 1872, caused proceedings to be commenced for the fTreclosure 6f the first of the
land-grant mortgages, and on the 3d of July, 1872, similar
proceedings for the foreclosure of the second of that class of
mortgages, and on the 5th of the same month for the third.
The bill then alleged that before these suits were begun the
directors of the canal company had proceeded so far with

RICIITER v. JEROME.

. 241

Statement of the Case.

negotiations for raising money for their enterprise that "a
successful conclusion was assured on a basis of satisfactory title
of said 600,000 acres of land being found in said . . . canal
company, and on the value of said property being verified as
represented by report of agents for that purpose, who had
been delegated by foreign capitalists to investigate to that
end, of which promised success, the said syndicate having
been advised, they, the said members of said syndicate, set
themselves about thwarting the success of said negotiations,
and accomplished their purpose" by buying over Anthony
from his allegiance to the canal company under his contract
with the Averys, Wild, and Conant, furnishing the money
necessary to complete the wagon-road contract, and getting
the title to the unpatented lands in Ayer. This scheme was
accomplished, and lands amounting in the aggregate to something more than 173,000 acres were conveyed to Ayer153,000 acres in i873, and the remainder in 18T5. To induce
Anthony to come into the scheme he was paid a bonus of
$20,000 by Ayer,. and furnished the money necessary to complete his contract for building the road. The date of this
transaction does not appear, except, generally, that it was in
1872. This, as was alleged, prevented the canal company from
raising money, and the syndicate, with the intent to securp to
Ayer the title to the "residue of said wagon-road lands," enlisted the said Union Trust Company of New York in their
designs, and procfired the said Union Trust Company
to allow
.
.
Alfred Russell, the solicitor of the said syndicate, upon the retainer of said syndicate, to foreclose the
said Union Trust mortgage in the interest of said syndicate,
but with the understanding that such foreclosure should be
conducted . . . for the protection of the aforesaid legal
title to the said residue of said wagon-road lands in the. said
James C. Ayer, as far as practicable and possible under the
decree to be obtained therein."
The bill then alleged in substance that the suit for foreclosure was begun and carried on for this purpose among others,
and that Ayer got the mortgage title to the residue of the
lands under the decree in that way and pursuant to that underVOL. Cxxm-16

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

standing. And finally it was alleged that the decree rendered
in the cases under which the title was got "was not, in fact,
an adjudication of the said court upon consideration of the
pleadings and proofs in the said several causes which, as
appears by said decree, -were heard and decided together, but
was, in fact, a decree drawn by the said Alfred Russell, solicitor of the syndicate aforesaid, and submitted to by compulsion
by those representing collateral interests therein, and assented
to by the Union Trust Company of New York aforesaid in
collusion with the syndicate aforesaid through their solicitor
aforesaid, and by the said George Jerome and Fernando C.
Beaman, assignees in bankruptcy of said ship-canal company
aforesaid, through ignorance of the rights and equities of the
said last-mentioned corporation against the legal title of the
said James C. Ayer to the said residue of the said wagon-road
lands beyond the 47,000 'and odd acres which were actually
sold under said- decree; and said Jerome and Ileaman were
actually misled as to the lien of the said Union Trust mortgage upon said residue of said wagon-road lands by the collusion, neglect, and failure of the said Union Trust Company. in
its foreclosure bill aforesaid, to make said James C. Ayer a
party defendant, charging the legal title to said lands in his
hands vith a trust for the'payment of said mortgage, and by
the collusive concession in said foreclosure bill that the title to
said-residue of said wagon-road lands had been lost to the said
ship canal company and taken out from under the lien of said
mortgage by reason of a grant thereof to third parties by the
State of Mlichigan, whereby the lien of said mortgage had
been lost, and hence the said Jerome and Beaman, seeing no
interest which they could conserve by opposing said decree as
drawn, and insisted on by said Russell, consented to said decree
as proposed by said Russell, and said decree was entered accordingly by consent as aforesaid, and so it was represented to the
judge who allowed the same to be entered without opposition
or argument or consideration, and it was signed accordingly.
The prayer of the bill was "that your orator may be allowed
by this court to have the benefit of said decree herein set forth
as 'Schedule D,' hereto, in behalf of your orator, and any olther

RICHTER v. JEROMIE.
Citations for Appellees.

holders of said 1300 bonds secured by the said mortgage to
the said Union Trust Company of New York, who are bona
ftde holders of said bonds in said decree mentioned, and that
in behalf of your orator and said bondholders the said residue
of 200,000 acres of wagon-road lands so deeded to said James C.
Ayer in his lifetime, as heretofore stated, may be by the decree
of this court charged in the hands of said widow and heirs, or
of said trustees, with a trust for the payment of the unpaid
portion of said 1300 bonds and interest thereon, and that the
said residue of said land be sold under the'decree and direction
of this court to pay the moneys remaining due upon said unpaid bonds, or so much thereof as shall be necessary to that
end; subject, however, to the lien of the said widow and heirs,
or of said trustees under the will of the said James C. Ayer.
for all money advanced by said James C. Ayer in completion
of said wago]n-road haid contract, as the same shall be ascertained upon an accounting of the same, with interest, as the
same shall appear upon an accounting thereof."
The Union 'Trust Company failed to appear, and as to it the
bill was taken pro cowfs,.o. The other defendants demurred
to the bill, and upon hearing the demurrer was sustained, and
the bill dismissed. From a decree to that effect this appeal
was taken.
3fr. Don -3f Dickinson (with whom were /. T. P. WTdttezioee and 2/fr. Jokn 8. ,Symoteon the brief) for appellant cited:
IDiehl,'r v. Bla k ]Th'er F'alls I'on Co., 2 Black, 715; Penn v.
Baltimore, I Ves. Sen. 444; 2ifasie v. W7atts, 6 Cranch, 148;
Van iVe. s v. Hyatt, 13 Pet. 294; Iartv. Sansom, 110 U. S. 151 ;
Gay v. J)a 'yart,106 U. S. 679; iAorsell v. Pi,'st ILational
Bank, 91 U. S. 357; ]?.eedmans Saving & Trust Co. v. Earle,
110 IT. S. '10; Cannioga v. il/aeon & Brunswick Raiboad,
109 U. S. 44(;; Sheldon, v. Jl1ortescue, 3 P. Wims. 104; Jlennecdi'
v. Daly, 1 Sch. & Le,froy, 355 ; Saunders v. Dehew, 2 Vernon,
271.
Mr. Wallf,e . Davidge and -/. James Lownde for appellees
cited: Morga v. Morgan, 2 Wheat. 290; Symmes v. 6uthrie,

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Citations for Appellees Ayer.

9 Cranch 19; Kallow v. Einde, 12 Wheat. 193; -Findlayv.
lfinde, 1 Pet. 241; Tillard v. Tayloe, 8 Wall. 557; lfarble
Coapany v. Ripley, 10 Wall. 339; Brashier v. Gratz, 6
Wheat. 528; Pratt v. Carroll, 8 Cranch, 471; Colson, v.
Thiompson, 2 Wheat. 336; Dorsey v. Packwood, 12 How. 126;
Boone v. Vissouri Iron Co., 17 How. 340; -Holt v. Rogers, 8
Pet. 420; Graham v. Railroad Co., 102 U. S. 148; .Mitchellv...
Ho'nmfray, 8 Q. B. D. 587; Banger v. Upton, 91 U. S. 56;
People's Bank v. NationalBank, 101 U. S. 181; .feQuiddy
v. WVare, 20 Wall. 14: Badger v. Badger,2 Wall. 87; -Harwood
v. Railroad Company, 17 Wall. 78; Grymes v. Sanders, 93
U. S. 55; Xc-Enight v. Taylor, 1 How. 161.
A3r. -. TF. -Meddaugh filed a brief for the appellees
Ayer, citing: -Bryan v. Kfennett, 113 IT. S. 179; Horansby
v. The United States, 10 Wall. 224; Soulard v. United States,
4 Pet. 511; Wing v. .MDowell, Walker's Ch. (Mich.) 175;
.Freedman'sSaving & Trust Co. v. Earle, 110 U. S. 710;
Campbell v. Railroad Co., 1 Woods, 368; Shaw v. Norfolk
County Railroad Co., 5 Gray, 162; Richards v. Chesapeake
& Ohio Railroad,1 Hughes, 28;, Bank v. Hopkins, 2 Dana,
395; Dunn v. Pipesi20 La. Ann. 276; Fletcher v. -folmes,
25 Ind. 458; Chamberlain v. Preble,.11 Allen, 370; Derby
v. Jacques, 1 Clifford, 425; Holmes v. Rogers, 13 .Cal. 191;
G'ifford v. Thorn, 1 Stockton (9 N. J. Eq.) 720, 722; Edgerton v. M'use, , Hill (S. C. Eq.), 51; Brown v. Sprague, 5
Denio, 545; 2ashville, &c., Railway Co. v. United States, 113
U. S. 226; .Kropholler v. St. Paul,&c., Railroad Co., 2 Fed.
Rep. 302; S. C. 1 McoCrary, 300; Sahlgard v. .Kennedy, 13
Fed. Rep. 242; Groustrav. Bourges, 141 Mass. 7; -Millerv.
Rutland & Washington 1?ailroad, 36 Vt. 452; Sturges v.
Riwpp, 31 Vt. 1; Denniston v. Coquillard,5 McLean, 253;
Boone v. .fissouri iron Co., 17 Row. 340; .Jfarble Co. v.
Ripley, 10 Wall. 339; Bank of Columbia v. Hagner, 1 Pet.
454; Colson v. Thompson, 2 Wheat. 336; Thompson v.
Bruen, 46 Ill. 125; Russell'V. _Vester, 46 Mich. 290; Jones
v. Lynds, 7 Paige, 301; Frazier v. Broadnax, 2 Little,
249;. -Harwood v. Railroad Co., 17 Wall. 78; Gordon v.

RICHTER v. JEROME.
Opinion of the Court.

Ross, 63 Ala. 363; .Eva'ns v. Bacon, 99 Mass. 213; &mbvury
v. Xlemm, 3 Stewart, (30 N. J., Eq.), 517; Spaulding v.
Farwell, 70 M aine, 17; Royal Bank of Liverpool v. Grand
Juntion Railroad, 125 Mass. 490; Campau v. 'Fan Dyke,
15 Mich. 371; Plymouth v. Russell ffils, 7 Allen, 438;
_farsh v. Whitrore, 21 Wall. 178; Godden v. Rimmel, 99
U. S. 201; Credit Co. v. Arkansas Cent. Railroad, 15 Fed.

Rep. 46; JcViker v. Filer, 31 Mich. 304; Srmith v..Davidson,
40 Mich. 632; Sullivan v. Portland & Kennebec Railroad,
94 UL. S. 806; C'orcoran v. Chesapeake & Ohio Canal Go.,
94 U. S.741; Shaw v. Railroad Co., 100 U. S. 605; Glenny
v. Langdon, 98 U. S. 20; Trimble v. TFoodhead, 102 U. S.
647; Phelps v. Xc.Donald, 99 U. S. 298; .Hodgsonv. Sidney,
L. R. I Ex. 313; Brobt v. Brock, 10 Wall. 519; Gilbert v.
Cooley, Walker's Ch.(Mich.) 494 Timble v. Foodhead, 102
IT. S. 650; -Dial v. Reynolds, 96 U. S. 340; C.aamberlainv.
.yell, 3 Mich. 448; Eagle Fire Co. v. Lent, 6 Paige, 635;
Banks v. Walker, 3 Barb. Ch.438; Jones v. St. John, 4 Sandf.
Ch.208; Bogey v. Stute, 4 Jones Eq. (Nor. Car.) 174; Peters
v. Bowman, 98 U. S. 56; San Francisco v. Lawton, 18 Cal.
465; S. C.79 Am. Dec. 187; Iferchants' Bank v. Thomson,
55 N. Y. 7; Banning v. Bradford, 21 Minn. 308; Pelton, v.
Farmin, 18 Wis. 222- Summers v. Bromley, 28 Mich. 125;
Graham v. Railroad Co., 102 U. S. 148; Brush v. Sweet, 38
Mich. 574; -De Hloghton v. Xloney, L. R. 2 Ch.App. 164; Hill
v. Boyle, L. R. 4 Eq. 260.
. CHIEF JusTicE WAAE, after statfig the case, delivered
the-opinion of the court.
M

We are unable to find any authority for granting the relief
which is sought in this case. The bill was not fied to set aside
the decree in the suit.' rought by the Union Trust Company
to foreclose its mortgage. On the contrary, the complainant
asks in express terms to have the benefit of that decree, so
that, as we suppose, he may keep the money he has got as his
share of the proceeds of the sale under it. Neither is it sought
to hold the Union Trust Company accountable for its alleged
misconduct and breach of faith in' the proceedings for the fore-

OCTOBER TERMN,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

closure of the mortgage. Nor is the suit brought to obtain a
specific performance of the contract between Anthony and
the Averys, Wild, and Conant, nor to recover back the money
paid by the canal company on that contract over and above
what was necessary to pay for the lands which had been
patented to Anthony, and which were actually sold under the
Union Trust Company decree for the benefit of the complainant and the other bondholders..
....
But it is, if we understand it correctly, a suit to charge the
wagon-road lands, now in the hands of the legal representatives of Ayer, *witha trust in favor of bondholders as security
for the amount due them respectively, subject only to a lien
for the moneys actually advanced to enable Anthony to complete his contract for building the road and thus become
entitled to patents.
There can be no doubt but the mortgage by the canal company conveyed to the Union Trust Company, as trustee for
the bondholders, all the interest in the lands which was conveyed to the canal company by the warranty deed of Perez J.
Nvery, Wild, and Conant; but that was no more than the
interests which those grantors acquired by the contract with
Anthony. As their deed was with covenants of'warranty, any
title which they afterwards acquired under -the Anthony contract would enure to the benefit of the bondholders through
the Trust Company as their trustee holding for their benefit,
and as their representative. All the rights the bondholders
have or ever had in the mortgage, legal or equitable, they got
through the Trust Company, to which the conveyance was
made for their security. As bondholders claiming under the
mortgage, they can have no interest in the security except
that which the trustee holds and represents. If the trustee
acts in good faith, whatever binds it in any legal proceedings
it begins and carries on to enforce the trust, to which they are
not actual parties, binds them. Jrerri om v. Stewart, 93 U. S.
155, 160 ; Corcoranv. 6]lesapeake, -c., Canal Co., 94 U. S. 741,
745; S,w
v. Railroad Co, 100 U. S. 605, 611. Whatever
forecloses the trustee, in the absence of fraud or bad faith,
forecloses them., This is the undoubted rule.

RICHTER v. JEROME.
Opinion of the Court.

Here the Trust Company began its suit for the foreclosure
of its mortgage, and has sold under the decree in that suit all
the interests, legal and equitable, which it held in the land as
trustee for the bondholders, and distributed the proceeds, the
complainant receiving his share without complaint and .with-

out objection.

All the rights which the Trust Company, as

trustee, bad in the lands at the time of the mortgage passed

to the purchaser at the sale. That sale, it is conceded, binds
the Trust Company as trustee and therefore it binds the complainant as a bondholder. If the decree or the sale under it
was in fraud of the rights of the bondholders, their remedy is
by a direct proceeding to set aside the sale or the decree, and
to proceed anew with another foreclosure of the mortgage,
and not to undertake to reforeclose what had been fully foreclosed before under a decree which remains in force. But it is said that the original foreclosure was of 'no effect,
because neither Anthony nor Ayer was a party to the suit,
and the rights of the Trust Company and its beneficiaries
under the mortgage were neither set forth with certainty in
the bill nor found in the decree. No relief was sought either
against Anthony or Ayer. The sole purpose of the bill was
to sell the interest of the mortgagee in the lands, whatever
that interest might be. To a suit for that purpose neither
Anthony nor Ayer was a necessary party,- because it was not
important to them who held the ilghts that were to be sold,
and such a sale would not affect them. The canal company,
or its assignees in bankruptcy, were parties to the suit, and
instead of objecting, as they might, to a sale of the property
without a more specific adjudication as to what was to be sold,
consented to it. The bondholders were represented in the
suit by their trustee, and are bound by the decree so long as
it stands unreversed, and is not set aside or vatated.
The argument of counsel for the appellants seems to proceed
on the ground that there are two equities growing out of the
mortgage to the Trust Company, which may be dealt with in
two separate suits as they are separate and distinct in their
character. One he calls the mortgagor's equity, consisting of
the rights of the canal company in the lands growing out of

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

the contract by Anthony for their sale to the Averys, .Wild,
and Conant. This equity, if We understand counsel correctly,
it is conceded was sold under the proceedings for foreclosure,
and now belongs to the purchaser. The other he denominates
the "bondholdes' equity," and it arises out of the purchase by
Ayer from Anthony of his rights under the contract with the
State of Michigan for building the wagon road when he (Ayer)
had knowledge of the former contract under which the canal
company could have perfected its title to the unpatented lands
included in the mortgage if he had not interfered. Under this
equity counsel say they now seek to recover for the bondholders "only the profits which Ayer made by stepping into
Anthony's shoes in the premises."
We are unable to see how these two equities, if there are
two, can be separated in the way contemplated. They both
grow out of the canal company's rights under the contract between Anthony, and the Averys, Wild, and Conant. If the
canal company could not recover from Ayer, neither the bondholders nor their trustee in the mortgage can. The title upon
which their right of recovery rests, if such a right ever existed
at all, was in the Trust Company, as the'trustee of their
security, at the time the original foreclosure Was had, and it
was part of the mortgagor's equity which was sold. It was
then what this bill seeks to make it now, part of the security
of the bondholders under the Trust Company mortgage, and
being such it passed with the rest to the purchaser at that sale.
Something is also said in the argument about the equitable
claims of the bondholders upon Ayer as the successor of Antbony, growing out of the false representations made to them
as to the title of the lands covered by the mortgage when they
paid the money and took their bonds; but all such claims
come from the' mortgage, as to which, in all proceedings for
foreclosure, they are represented by their trustee when its interests are not in conflict with theirs. All the equities now
asserted were proper subjects for adjudication in the former
suit if they existed. They formed part and parcel of the security which was then enforced, and, not being excepted from
the sale, passed by it.

SMITH AND GRIGGS MiIFG. CO. v. SPRAGUE.

249

Statement of the Case.

This makes it unnecessary to consider whether there was
such fraud on the part of Anthony as to charge the lands in
the hands of Ayer, even if the Trust Company were now proceeding against him under the mortgage.
The decree is
Afflrmed.

SMITH & GRIGGS MANUFACTURING COMPANY
v. SPRAGUE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UINITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF CONNECTICUT.
Argued October 24, 1887. - Decided November 14, 1887.
The use of his own invention by an inventor, for the purpose of testing the
machine, in order by experiment to devise additional means for perfecting
the success of its operation, is not a public use under Rev. Stat. ยง 4886,
and if a profit is derived from the sale of the product of its operation,
merely as incident to such use, the character of the use is not thereby
changed; but if the use is mainly for the purpose of trade and profit,
the experimenting being incidental only, and it is public, and is continued for a period of more than two years prior to the application for a
patent for the invention, it comes within the prohibition of that statute.
When it is clearly established that there was a public use of an invention
by the inventor for more than two years prior to his application for a
patent for it, the burden is on him to show by convincing proof that the
use-was not a public use, in the sense bf the statute, but that it was for
the purpose of perfecting an incomplete invention by tests and experiments.
Claims 1, 2, 3, 4, and 6 in letters-patent No. 228,136, dated May 25, 1880,
and Claims 2, 3, and 5 in letters-patent No. 231,199, dated August 17,
1880, both granted to Leonard A. Sprague for improvemento in machines
for making buckle-levers, are void by reason of a public use of the
invention by the patentee for a 1eriod of more than two years prior to
his application for patent No. 231,199; as to claim 5 in letters-patent
No. 228,136, and claims 1 and 4 in letters-patent No. 231,199, this court
agrees with the Circuit Court, for the reasons stated in the opinion of
the latter.

IN equity, for infringement of letters-patent. Decree in
favor of the complainant; 12 Fed. Rep. 721. From this
decree an appeal was taken. The case is stated in the opinion
of the court.

