OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Syllabus.

such apparently great expenditures, the abandonment would
doubtless be good." 12 Pet. 398.
In the same case the court quote with approval the following
language of Kent:
"The right of abandonment does not depend upon the certainty, but on the high probability of a total loss, either of the
property or of the voyage, or both. The insured is to act, not
upon certainties, but upon probabilities, and if the facts present a case of extreme hazard and of probable expense, exceeding half the value of the ship, the insured may abandon;
though it should happen that she was afterwards recovered at
a less expense." 3 Kent 0cm. 321.
In -this connection- it is assigned for error that the court
erred in ruling that the fact of the actual repair of the vessel
for less than fifty per centum of her agreed value was not
evidence relevant to the issue as to the amount of damage
done to the Alice. This statement as to the ruling of the
court. is scarcely accurate. The court refused, and properly,
to tell the jury that.the fact that the vessel was recovered
and repaired was "the best evidence" that it was practicable
to recover and repair it. That fact, however, went to the jury
as evidence, and they were at .liberty, under -the instructions,
to give it due weight in connection with all the other circumstances, in determining whether the recovery and repair of
the vessel were, within the principles announced in other
instructions, impracticable at the time of the abandonment.
Upon the whole case we ate of opinion that no error of law
was committed to the prejudice of the company, and the
judgment is
.Affirmed.

TUFTS v. TUFTS.
APPEAL FROM TEE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
Submitted October 21,1887.-:Decided October 31, 1887.

'In this suit the facts found are not materially and substantially different
from those alleged in the bill, and they will support a decree for the
relief asked for.

TUFTS v. TUFTS.
Opinion of the Court.

IN equity. Decree for complainant. Respondent appealed.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
M'. Benjami Sheeks and

r.T -Y.1awZins for appellant.

.2Jfr. Arthur Brown for appellee.
M

.Cm-F

JUSTICE Wrn

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity begun on the first of August, 1882,
by Elmira P. Tufts, then in life, against Elbridge Tufts, her
son, to set aside a deed executed by -her to him, bearing date
June 26, 1882, on the ground that it was obtained, by fraud.
The material averment in the complaint is, that "defendant
promised the plaintiff in the month of June, 1882, if
she would execute an agreement, which he then, on. or about
said June 26, 1882, had drawn up and read to plaintiff,
that the defendant would build the plaintiff, at his "own
expense, a nice brick house upon his, said defendant's, lot
of land, situated immedistely east of and adjoining on the
eastern portion of the above-described lot of land, which was
owned by the plaintiff,

.

.

and give her a life lease of

the same to use to her own benefit, free from any iand all
expense to her during her natural life, said brick building to
be commenced by defendant as soon as the plaintiff would
sign said written agreement then drawn up by the defendant;"
and that the deed was signed and executed under the belief,
induced by the false and fraudulent statements of the defendant, that it was that agreement. At the hearing the court
made, among others, the following finding of fact:
. "That at the time of the execution of said deed plaintiff did
not know that it was a deed of her property in question, but
believed it to be a life lease of property belonging to the
defendant, upon which she was agreeing to assist in building
a house; that prior to the time of the execution of said deed
there had been negotiations between the said plaintiff and the
said defendant to the effect that the plaintiff should assist
defendant with money to build a house upon lands of his own,
and that the plaintiff should have a life lease of the same;

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

that after such negotiations had taken place she directed
defendant to prepare the proper papers; that defendant, instead of preparing the papers directed by plaintiff, prepared
a warrantee deed of the land in question, and procured the signature of the plaintiff thereto; that the same was not read to
the plaintiff, and she did not know the contents thereof; that
there was no consideration for the same passed between the
parties, and that the plaintiff signed the same under the belief
that it was a paper relative to a life ledse to her of the said
land of the defendant upon which said building was to be
erected; that the signature of the plaintiff to the said deed
was procured by the fraud of the defendant; that the defendant never has attempted to build any such house as was contemplated by the agreement for the life lease."
Upon this finding a decree was entered declaring the deed
null and void, and directing the defendant to reconvey to the
plaintiff. From that decree this appeal was taken.
The objection now urged to the decree is, not that it is
wrong upon the facts found, but that the findings make a
different case from that alleged in the complaint. To this we
cannot agree. The suit was brought to set aside tfie deed
because it was executed in the belief, caused by the false and
fraudulent statements of the defendant, that it was, an agreement under which tle plaintiff was to have a life lease of
property belonging to the defendant, and not a deed conveying her own property absolutely in fee to him. That is substantially the finding of the court, and, in a suit in equity for
relief on the ground of fraud, it is enough if the facts found
are not materially and substantially different from those alleged
in the bill.
The decree is f irmed.

