DAVENPORT BANK v. DAVENPORT.
Citations for Plaintiff in Error.

DAVENPORT BANK v. DAVENPORT BOARD OF
EQUALIZATION.
ERROR TO TIlE SUPREME COURT OF IOwA.
Submitted October 11,
18S7.-

Decided October 31, 1887.

Section 5219, Rev. Stat., respecting the taxation of national banks, does not
requi e perfect equality between state and national banks, but only that
the system of taxation in a State shall not work a discrimination favorable to its own citizens and corporations and unfavorable to holders of
shares in national banks.
If a state statute creating a system of taxation does not on its face discriminate against national banks, and there is neither evidence of a legislative
intent to make such discrimination, nor proof that the statute works an
actual and material discrimination, there is no case for holding it to be
unconstitutional.

THis was a proceeding in a state court of Iowa to relieve a
national bank from an alleged excessive rate of taxation. The
judgment below for the defendant was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State on appeal. This writ of error was
sued out to review that judgment of affirmance. The case is
stated in the opinion of the court.
_Mr. A. J. Hirsckl and lfr. IW.T. JDittoe for plaintiff in
error cited: 'an Allen v. Assessors, 3 Wall. 581; Ge2,man
American Savings Bank v. Burlington, 54 Iowa, 609; Jfurray v. C]larleston, 96 U. S. 432; Hartman v. Greenhow, 102
U. S. 672; ]1orne v. Green, 52 Mississippi, 452; Board qf
%n6mzissione)-s v. Elston, 32 Ind. 27; Stuart v. Palmer, 74
N. Y. 183; Hubbard v. Seqervisors, 23 Iowa, 130; 0/do 1ife
& Trust Co. v. Debolt, 16 How. 416; Pollard v. Zuber, 65
Ala. 628; People v. Weave,, 100 U. S.539;.Adams v. 2fayor,
95 U. S.22; Chicago v. L'unt, 52 Ill. 414; Peope v. Commissioners, 4 Wall. 244; Torth v. RailroadCo., 89 Nor. Car. 291;
.AXiller v. .Yeilbron, 58 Cal. 133; Loftin v. Citizens' Bank, 85
Ind. 341; Pelton v. Iational Bank, 101 IT.S.539; San .Matko
County -v. Southeern PacXt Railroad,13 Fed. Rep. 722; Santa

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

Clara County v. Southern PaiAfe Railroad, 18 Fed. Rep.
385.
-Mr.L. .X.Fisher,.r. C. A. Ficke, and .Afr. E.E. Cook for
defendants in error cited: ZHubbard v. Supervisors, 23 Iowa,
130; Atiller v. Heilbron, 58 Cal. 133; Peope v. Weaver, 100
U. S. 539; -Evansville v. Britton, 105 U. S. 322; Stanley v.
Albany, 121 U. S.535; Supervisors v. Stanley, 105 U. S. 305;
Henkle v. KYeota, 68 Iowa, 334; .Davenprtv. Board of _Equaization, 64 Iowa, 140; _Morseman v. Younkin, 27 Iowa, 350;
Cook v. Burlington, 59 Iowa, 251; Bank v. Tennessee, 104
U. S. 493; -Farringtonv. Tennessee, 95 U. S. 687; Railroad
Co. v. Hoge, 99 U. S. 348; Davenport Bank v. 3fittelbuseher,
4 McCrary, 361; United States v. Union Pacif# Railroad,
91 U. S. 72; Lionberger v. Rouse, 9 Wall. 468; .Mercantile
Bank v. New York, 121 U. S. 138; Boyer v. Boyer, 113 U. S.,
'701; Board of Commissioners v. Elston, 32 Ind. 27; Champaign County Bank v.Smith, 7 Ohio St. 42; People v. Home
Ins. Co., 29 Cal. 533; People v. Commissioners, 4 Wall. 244;
Newark Banking Co. v. _Newark, 121 U. S. 163; Adams v.
-Mayor, 95 U. S. 19.
MR. JUSTICE MILLEn delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of
Iowa.
The question presented grows out of the allegation on the
part of the bank, which is a national bank located in Iowa,
that the shares of its stock are taxed at a rate which is in excess of the taxes levied upon other moneyed capital of the
State. The foundation of this allegation is, that the statute
of the State'on this subject taxes savings banks, one of which
is in the same town with the plaintiff, on the amount of its
paid-up capital, and does not tax the shares of those banks
held by the individual shareholders. The case, passing through
the proper stages in the state tribunals, was decided by the
Supreme Court against the plaintiff.
The proposition of counsel seems to be, that the capital of

DAVENPORT BANK v. DAVENPORT.
Opinion of the Court.

savings banks can be taxed by the State in no other way than
by an assessment upon the shares of that capital held by individuals, because, under the act of Congress, the capital of the
natiohal banks can only be taxed in that way. It is strongly
urged that in no other, mode than by taxing the stockholders
of each and all the banks can a perfect equality of taxation be
obtained. The argument is not conclusive, if -the proposition
were sound; for the act of Congress does not require a perfect
equality of taxation between state and national banks, but
only that the shares of the national banks shall not be taxed
at a higher rate than other moneyed capital in the hands of
individuals. That this does not mean entire equality is evident
from the fact that, if the capital of the national banks were
taxed at a much lower rate than other moneyed capital in the
State, the banks would have no right to complain, and the law
in that respect would not violate the provisions of the act of
Congress for the protection of national banks.
It has never been held by this court that the States should
abandon systems of taxation of their owit banks, or of money
in the hands of their other corporations, which they may think
the most wise and efficient modes of taxing their own corporate organizations, in order to make that' taxation conform to
the system of taxing the national banks upon the shaies of
their stock in the hands of their owners. All that has ever
been held to be necessary is, that the system of state taxation
of its own citizens, of its own banks, and of its own corporations
shall not work a discrimination unfavorable to the holders of
the shares of the national banks. Nor does the act of Congress require anything more than this; neither its language
nor its purpose can be construed to go any farther. Within
these limits, the manner of assessing and collecting all taxes
by the States is uncontrolled by the act of Congress.
In the case before us the same rate per cent is assessed upon
the capital of the savings banks as upon the 'shares of the
national banks. It does not satisfactorily appear from anything found in this record that this tax upon the moneyed
capital of the savings banks is not as great as that upon the
shares of stock in the national banks. It is not a necessary nor

OCTOBER TERMK,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

a probable inference from anything in this system of taxation
that it should be so, and it is not shown by any actual facts in
the record that it is so. If then neither the necessary, usual
or probable effect of the system of assessment discrimindtes in
favor of the savings banks against the national banks upon
the face of the statute, nor any evidence is given of the intention of the legislature to make such a discrimination, nor any
proof that it works an actual and material discrimination, it is
not a case for this court to hold the statute unconstitutional.
The whole subject has been recently considered by this court
in the case of Kfercantile Bank v. lNew York, 121 *U. S. 138.
In that opinion it was held that, while the deposits in the savings banks of New York constituted moneyed capital in the
hands of individuals, yet it was clear that they were not within
the meaning of the act of Congress in such a sense as to require
that because they were exempted from taxation the shares of
stock in national banks must also be exempted. The reason
given for this is that the institutions generally established
under that name are intended for the deposits of the small
savings and accumulations of the industrious and thrifty; that
to promote their growth and progress is the obvious interest
and manifest policy bf the State; and, as was said in !Tep1urn
v. School -Directors,23 Wall. 480, it could not have been the
intention of Congress to exempt bank shares from taxation because some moneyed capital was exempt.
It is unnecessary to inquire whether the savings banks of
Iowa are based upon principles similar to those of New York
which were the subject of the opinion in Mfereantile Bank
v. 1rew I-ork, for while in that case the savings banks were
exempt from taxgtion, the Iowa statute imposes a tax upon
them equal to that imposed upon the shares of the national
banks. The whole subject is so fully reviewed and reconsidered in that opinion, delivered less than a year ago, that it
would be but a useless repetition to go farther into the question.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Iowa is
Affinmed.

