HENDERSON v. LOUISVILLE, &c., RAILROAD.

61

Syllabus.
AIR.

IIrEF JUSTICE WAITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

The judgment in this case is affirmed on the authority of
Crow v. Oxford, 119 U. S. 215. See also Post v. .Supervisors,
105 U. S. 667, 691. It appears on the face of the bonds sued
for that the subscription was made under and by virtue of
the act of February 18, 1857, and that the vote of the town
was taken at a special town meeting called upon the "application in writing of fifty legal voters of said town," which is
in accordance with the provisions of that act. The act of
March 6, 1867, which the plaintiff now claims is sufficient to
support the bonds, requires that the application for the town
meeting shall be made by "twenty votets and tax-payers."
The record does not show that any of those who signed the
application for the meeting at which the vote was taken were
tax-payers. It thus appears from the bonds themselves not
only that they were issued under the act of 1857, but that
they were not issued under that of 1867.

Airmed.

HENDERSON v. LOUISVILLE AND NASHVILLE
RAILROAD.
ERROR

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF
EASTERN

TIE UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

Argued October 21, 1887.-Decided October 31, 1887.

A railroad company is not responsible for the loss of a bag containing
money and jewelry, carried in the hand of a passenger and by him accidentally dropped through an open window in the car, although, upon
notice of the loss, it refuses to stop the train, short of Q usual station,
to enable him to recover it.
Under the practice in Louisiana, the Circuit Court of the United States,
after ordering a petition to be dismissed ds showing no cause: of action,
but with leave to file an amended petition, may, at the hearing on the
amended petition, amend the order allowing it to be filed, by providing
that it shall be treated as a mere amendment to the original petition, and
thus preclude the plaintiff from contesting a material fact, *within his
own knowledge, averred in that petition.

OCTOBER TERMA,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

THis was an action against a railroad company. Judgment
for defendant. Plaintiff sued out this writ of error. The
case is stated in the opinion of the court.
31r. 0. B. Sansum for plaintiff in error, cited: First National Bank v. Afarietta Railroad,20 Ohio St. 259, 279;
Butcher v. London, Railway, 16 0. B. 13, 15; Richards v.
Iondon Railway, 7 0. B. 839; Robinson v. Dunmore, 2 Bos.
& Pul. 416.

-Mr. Tnomas I.Bayne (2Ur. George Denegre was with him
on the brief) for defendant in error, cited: Clark v. Burns,
118 Mass. 275; Crystal Palacev. Vanderpool, 16 B. Mon. 302;
Tower v. Utica & Schenectady Railroad, 7 Hill, 41 [. C.
42 Am. Dec. 36]; Abbot v. Bradstreet,55 -Maine, 530; TFeek's
v. Hrew York, Hfew I-aven, & Hartford Railroad., 72 N. Y.
50; Del Valle v. Richmond, 27 La. Ann. 90; Stilley v. Stilley,
20 La. Ann. 53; Case v. WVatson, 22 La. Ann. 350; Hart v.
Bowie, 34 La. Ann. 323.
MR. JusTicE GIRAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action against a railroad corporation by a passenger to recover for the loss of a handbag and its, contents.
The plaintiff, a married woman suing by authority of her husband, alleged in the original petition that on October 25, 1883,
the defendant, being a common carrier of goods and persons
for hire, received her into one of its cars as a passenger from
her summer residence at Pass Christian in the State of Mississippi to her winter residence in New Orleans, having in her
hand, and in her immediate custody, possession and control,
a leathern bag of a kind usually carried by women of her condition and station in society, containing $5800 in bank bills,
and jewelry worth $4075; that while the plaintiff, holding
the bag in her hand, was attempting to close an open window
next her seat, through which a cold wind was blowing upon
her, the bag and its contents, by some cause unknown to her,
accidentally fell from her hand through the open window upon
the railroad ; that she immediately told the conductor of the
train that the bag contained property of hers of great value,

HENDERSON v. LOUISVILLE, &c., RAILROAD

62.

Opinion of the Court.

and requested him to stop the train, and to allow her to leave
the car and retake the bag and its contents; but he refused to
do so, although nothing hindered or prevented him, and,
against her protestations, caused the train to proceed at great
speed for three miles to Bay St. Louis, where he stopped the
train, and she despatched a trusty person to the place where
the bag had fallen; but before he arrived there the bag with
its contents was stolen and carried away by some person or
persons to the plaintiff unknown, "and was wholly lost to the
plaintiff by the gross negligence of the defendant as aforesaid."
The further averments of the petition, undertaking to define
specifically the nature and effect of the obligation assumed by
the defendant to the plaintiff, are mere conclusions of law, not
admitted by the exception, in the nature of a demurrer, which
was filed by the defendant, in accordance with the practice in
Louisiana, upon the ground that the petition set forth no cause
of action. The Circuit Court sustained the exception, and
ordered the petition to be dismissed. 20 Fed. Rep. 430.
On the day the judgment was rendered, and before it was
signed, it was amended, on the plaintiff's motion, by adding
the words "unless the plaintiff amend her petition so as to
state a cause of action within five days."
Within that time the plaintiff filed an amended petition,
alleging that the defendant received the plaintiff as a passenger, and the bag and its contents as part of her luggage, to
be safely kept and carried by the defendant as a common carrier to New Orleans, and there delivered to the plaintiff; that
the defendant did not so carry and deliver; and that the things
were lost by the negligence ind improper conduct of the defendant, and not by any want of care on the part of the plaintiff.
The defendant excepted to the amended petition, because
the plaintiff had no right to fie one after the original petition
had been dismissed as aforesaid, and because the amended
petition was inconsistent with the original petition, especially
in that the original petition alleged that the bag and its contents were held and kept by the plaintiff in her immediate
possession, control and custody, whereas the amended petition
alleged that the defendant received them as her luggage.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

After argument on this exception, the order allowing the
plaintiff to file an amended petition was modified by the court
so as to provide that the amended petition should be deemed
and should have effect only as an addition to the original petition; and the exception to the amended petition was sustained
and the action dismissed. The plaintiff sued out 'this writ of
error.
The mere statement of the case is sufficient to demonstrate
the correctness of the judgment below.
The facts alleged in the original petition constitute no
breach or neglect of duty on the 'part of the defendant towards
the plaintiff. She did not entrust her bag to the exclusive
custody and care of the defendant's servants, but kept it in
her own immediate possession, without informing the defendant of the value of its contents, until after it had dropped
from her hand through the open window. Even if no negligence is to be imputed to her in attempting to shut the window
with the bag in her hand, yet her dropping the bag was not
the act of the defendant or its servants, nor anything that
they were bound to foresee or to guard against; and after it
had happened, she had no legal right, for the purpose of relieving her from the consequences of an accident for which they
were not responsible, to require them to stop the train, short
of a usual station, to the delay and inconvenience of other
passengers, and the possible risk of collision with other trains.
This action being on the common law side of the Circuit
Court, the pleadings and practice were governed by the law
of the State. Rev. Stat. ยง 914. By article 419 of the Code
of Practice of Louisiana, "after issue joined, the plaintiff may,
with the leave of the court, amend his original petition;
provided the amendment does not alter the substance of his
demand by making it different from the one originally
brought." An amendment wholly inconsistent with the allegations of the original petition cannot be allowed. Barrow
v. Bank of Louisiana, 2 La. Ann. 453. It is by no means
clear that a petition, which .has been dismissed as showing no
cause of action, can be afterwards amended in matter of substance. -Hartv. Bowie, 84 La. Ann. 323. But if the order

SUN INSURANCE CO. v. KOUNTZ LINE.
Statement of the Case.

allowing an amended petition to be filed could be lawfully
made in this case, so long as final judgment had not been
entered, it was equally within the power of the court to
modify that order so as to treat the amendment as a mere
addition to the original petition, and- thus to preclude, the
plaintiff from contesting a material fact, within her own
knowledge, which she had once solemnly averred.
Judgment aflirmed.

SUN INSURANCE CO. v. KOUNTZ LINE.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Petition for rehearing. Presented October 11, 18S7. Decided October 24, 1887.

Eie mandate in Sun Insurance Co. v. Z.ountz Line, 122 U. S. 583, is modified in manner as shown in the order herein announced.

Tins cause was decided at the last term of court, and is reported at 122 U. S. 583 et seq. After the opinion of the court
was handed down, and on the same day, the counsel of the
plaintiff in error moved for a stay of the mandate, and for
leave to file a petition for a rehearing. Both motions were
granted.
During vacation the petition was lodged in the
office of the Clerk of the Court, and, on the opening of the
court at the present term, it was presented to the Chief Justice and the Associate Justices. The petition was as follows:
"Come the appellees, by counsel, and move the court (leave
therefor being obtained) to grant a rehearing in this cause on
behalf of the appellees, for the following reasons:
"F"ir..st. That there is no such legal evidence in the record
as would sustain the conclusion that the several transportation
companies are jointly liable with the II. C. Yeager Transportation Company for the loss of the produce and merchandise shipped on the steamboat Henry C. Yeager at St. Louis
on the 21st May, 1880, or that it was ever the intention of
the respective owners of said boats to be partners, or to hold
VOL. cxxim-5

