ANDREWS v. E1O1VEY.
Counsel for Parties.

228,136, and the 1st and 4th claims of patent INo. 231,199, we
agree with the conclusions of the Circuit Court for the reasons
stated in its opinion, which it is not necessary here to repeat.
Sjjrague v. Smith & Griggs Affg. Co., 12 Fed. Rep. '721.
As we find the decree of the Circuit Court to be erroneous
in respect to the other clains, it must be
Reversed, an the cause remanded with ihstructions to take
further proceedings therein, in conformity with this opin-

in.

A1NDREWS v. HOVEY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
Argued October 18, 19, 1887. -Decided

November 14, 185S7.

Reissued letters-patent No. 4372, granted to Nelson W. Green, May 9th, 1871,
for an "improvement in the method of constructing artesian wells," the
original patent, No. 73,425, having been granted to said Green, as inventor, January 14th, 1868, on an application filed March 17th, 1866, are invalid, because the invention was in public use by others than Green more
than two years prior to his application for the patent.
The proper construction of § 7 of the act of March 3d, 1839, (5 Stat. 354;)
is, that if, more than two years before the application for a patent, the
invention covered by it was in public use, whether with or without the
consent of the subsequent patentee) the patent was rendered invalid.

LI equity; for alleged infdingement of letters-patent. Decree dismissing the bill, from which complainant appealed.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
-Yr. Toseph C. Glayton and _Yr Anthony
appellants.

XD. Jed Lake for appellee.
him on the brief.

Xr. 2

Q. E-easbey for

T. Harmon was with

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

TMIZ. JUSTICE BLATHIT

ORD delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity brought by the appellants for the
infringement of reissued letters-patent No. 4372, granted to
Nelson W. Green, one of the appellants, May 9, 1871, for
an "improvement in the method of constructing artesian
wells," the original patent, No. 73,425, having been granted
to said Green, as inventor, January 14, 1868, on an application filed March 17, 1866.
This patent was before this court in the cases of Eames v.
Andrews and Beedle v. Bennett, at October Term, 1886, reported in 122 U. S. 40 and 71. In those cases, this court sustained the validity of the reissued patent and affirmed the
decrees of the Circuit Courts. In the present case, the decree
of the Circuit Court was against the validity of the patent,
and the bill was dismissed. 5 McCrary, 181. From that
decree the plaintiffs have appealed.
The patent is familiarly known as the "driven well" patent.
The specifications and drawings of the original and reissued
patents are set forth in the opinion of this court in Eames v.
Andrews. Numerous defences are set up in the answer in the
present case, and voluminous proofs have been taken in respect
to those defences; but it is necessary to consider only one of
them, which, in our view, is fatal to the.validity of the patent,
and that is, that the invention was used in public, at Cortland,
in the State of New York, by others than Green, more than
two years before the application for the patent.
The brief of the appellants concedes that it is shown in this
case that other persons than Green put the invention into public use more than two years before his application was filed.
It is contended for the appellants that this was done without
his knowledge, consent, or allowance. The appellee contends
that such knowledge, consent, or allowance was not necessary
in order to invalidate the patent, while the appellants contend
that it was necessary. The whole question depends upon the
proper construction of § 7 of the act of March 3, 1839, 5 Stat.
354, interpreted in connection with §§ 6, 7, and 15 of the act of
July 4, 1836, 5 Stat. 119, 123.

ANDREWS v. HOVEY.
Opinion of the Court.

A list of the various cases decided in the Circuit Courts,
brought on the reissued "driven well" patent, is given ii the
case of Earnes v. Andrews, at page 47. In none of those cases,
except the present one and those heard at the same time with
it, did the questi6n thus presented arise. In Andrews v. Carmvan, 13 Blatchford, 307, 324, the question involved and considered by the court was that of a dedication and abandonment
to the public of his invention by Green prior to his application,
founded upon acts done by him. The conclusion of the court
was, that there was no evidence of any use or sale of the invention by Green prior to his application for a patent, nor any
direct proof of knowledge on his part of any use or sale of the
invention by others within two years prior to his application,
nor sufficient evidence from which to properly infer that he
had such knowledge. The question of the use of his invention
by others more than two years prior to his application does
not appear to have been raised.
Nor was it raised in Andrews v. Cross, 19 Blatchford, 294.
One of the defences set up in the answer in that case was
"that the claim of Green as inventor was barred because the
improvement was in use more than two years prior to the
granting of his patent," and, as was said in the opinion in that
case, there was "no allegation that the invention was in public
use in the United States for more than two years before Green
applied for his original patent, or that any use was with his
consent or allowance, or that he abandoned the invention to
the public int fact, or otherwise than inferentially from the fact
alleged, that it-was in use for more than two years before his
original patent was granted." The conclusion of the Circuit
Court, in Andrews v. Cross was, that no abandonment or dedication of the invention to the public by Green was shown;
and that there was no evidence of any use or sale of the invention by Green before his application, and no sufficient evidence
from which to conclude that any use of any driven well by
others before his application was consented to or allowed by
him. The use by others thus referred to was, as in Andrews
v. Camnan, a use within two years prior to the application.
The point was not presented in Eames v. A ndrews or in

OCTOBER TERMI,

1887.

"

Opinion of the Court.

Beedle v. Benfnett, and in the opinion in the latter case, it was
said (p. 77): "There is no evidence in the record of any use
or sale of the invention by Green before his application for a
patent, and no evidence from which to conclude that any use
of any driven well by others before his application was consented to or allowed by him, except in the instances mentioned
at Cortland, which were merely experimental tests, made by
himself. Much less is there any evidence to show that there
was any use of the invention by others for more than two
years prior to his application."
The question involved has never been decided by this court.
In Egbertv. .ilp)rnan, 104 U. S. 333, 334, it was said: "Since
the passage of the act of 1839, it has been strenuously contended that the public use of an invention for more than two
years before such application, even without his," the inventor's,
"consent and allowance, renders the letters-patent therefor
void. It is unnecessary in this case to decide this question,
for the alleged use of the invention covered by the letterspatent to lBarnes is conceded to have been with his express
consent." In that case, the Circuit Court had, in .Egyert v.
Li2 pznan', 15 Blatchford, 295, held that the effect of the act
of 1839 was to require that the inventor should not permit
his invention to be used in public at a period earlier than two
years prior to his application for a patent, under the penalty
of having his patent rendered void by such use; and that
consent and allowance by the inventor were* not necessary to
such invalidity. The Circuit Court said, that the policy introduced by the act of 1839, and continued by §§ 24 and 61 of
the act of July 8th, 1870, 16 Stat. 201, 208, now §§ 4886 and
4920 of the :Revised Statutes, was, "that the inventor must
apply for his patent within two years after his invention is in
such a condition that he can apply for a patent for it, and
that, if he does not apply within such time, but applies after
the expiration of such time and obtains a patent, and it
appears that his invention was in public use at a time more
than two years earlier than the date of his application, his
patent will be void, even though such public use was without
his knowledge, consent, or allowance, and even though he was

ANDREWS

v. HOVEY.

Opinion of the Court.

in fact the original and first inventor of the thing patented
and so in public use." The Circuit Court, in that case, appears
to have decided the question on the view that the defence set
up in the answer was that the invention had been known and
in use in the United States more than two years before the
application, and that there was no issue as to whether the
public use for more than two years was with the consent or
allowance of the patentee; but this court decided. the case on
the question of the consent of the patentee to the use for more
than two years before the application.
The original patent in the present case having been applied
for and issued prior to the passage of the act of 1870, is to be
governed by the provisions of the acts of 1836 and 1.839.
Section 6 of the act of 1836 provided for the issuing of a
patent to an inventor for an invention not known or used by
others before his discovery or invention thereof, "and not, at
the time of his application for a patent, in public use or on
sale, with his consent or allowance, as the inventor or discoverer." Section 7 of the same act provided for the issuing of
a patent if, on examination, it should not appear to the Commissioner that the invention had been made by any other
person in this country prior to its being made by the applicant,
or that it had been patented or described in any printed
publication in: this or any foreign country, "or had been in
public use or on sale with the applicant's consent or allowance
prior to the application." Section 15 of the same act provided
that the defendant, in an action for the infringement of a
patent, might show, among other things, that the thing patented "had been in public use, or on sale, with the consent
and allowance of the patentee, before his application for a
patent;" and that, if that was shown, judgment should be
rendered for the defendant.
The seventh section of the act of 1839 was in these words:
"That every person or corporation whao has, or shall have,
purchased or constructed any newly invented machine, manufacture, or composition of matter, prior to the application of
the inventor or discoverer for a patent, shall be held to possess
the right to use, and vend to others to be used, the specific

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

machine, manufacture, or composition of matter so made or
purchased, without liability therefor to the inventor, or any
other person interested in said invention; and no patent shall
be held to be invalid by reason of such purchase, sale, or use
prior to the application for a patent as aforesaid, except on
proof of abandonment of such invention to the public; or that
such purchase, sale, or prior use has been for more than two
years prior to such application for a patent."
The act of July 8, 1870, repealed the act of 1839, but
provided, § 111, that such repeal should not affect, impair, or
take away any right existing under the act of 1839. Section
24 of the act of 1870, now embodied in § 4886 of the Revised
Statutes, was in these words: "That any person who has
invented or discovered any new and useful art, machine, manufacture, or composition of matter or any new and useful
improvement thereof, not known or used by others in this
country, and not patented, or described in any printed publication in this or any foreign country, before his invention or
discovery thereof, and not in public use or on sale for more
than two years prior to his application, unless the same is
proved to have been abandoned, may, upon payment of the
duty required by law, -md other due proceedings had, obtain
9 patent therefor."'
Section 37 of the act of 1870, now embodied in § 4899 of
the Revised Statutes, provided as follows: "That every
person who may have purchased of the inventor, or with his
knowledge and consent may have constructed any newly
invented or discovered machine, or other patentable article,
prior to the application by the inventor or discoverer for a
patent, or sold or used one so constructed, shall have the right
to use, and vend to others to be used, the specific thing so
made or purchased, without liability therefor."
In § 61 of the act of 1870 it was enacted, that, in any
action for infringement, the defendant might prove on the
trial, as a defence, among other things, that the thing patented
"had been in public use, or on sale in this country, for more
than two years before his application for a patent, or had
been abandoned to the public," and that, if such special matter

ANDREWS

v.

HOVEY.

Opinion of the Court.

alleged should be found for the defendant, judgment should
be rendered for him. This provision is now found in § 4920
of the Revised Statutes.
It is very plain, that, under the act of 1836, if the thing
patented had been in public use or on sale with the cohsent or
allowance of the applicant for any time, however short, prior
to his application, the patent issued to him was invalid. Then
came § 7 of the act of 1839, which was intended as an amelioration in favor of the inventor, in this respect, of the strict
provisions of the act of 1836. The first clause of that section
provides for the protection of a person who, prior to the
application for the patent, purchases or constructs a specific
machine or article, and declares that he may use and sell such
specific machine or article after the patent is issued, without
liability to the patentee. The section does not require, in
order to this protection, that the purchase or construction
shall have been with the consent or allowance of the person
who afterwards obtains the patent and seeks to enforce it
against such purchaser or constructor. The words "consent
or allowance" are not found in the provision. The only
requirement is, that the specific machine or article shall have
been purchased or constructed at some time prior to the application for a patent. The second clause of the section then
passes to consider the effect upon the validity of the patent
"of such purchase, sale, or use prior to the application" for
the patent, and declares that "no patent shall be held to be
invalid by reason of such purchase, sale, or use prior to the
application for a patent as aforesaid, except on proof of abandonment of such invention to the public, or that such purchase, sale, or prior use has been for more than two years
prior to such application for a patent." The expression "such
purchase" clearly means the purchase from any person, and
not merely from the person who becomes the patentee of the
machine or artidle. The expression "such sale or use" clearly
refers to the use or sale by the person who has purchased or
constructed the machine or article, the right to use and sell
which is given to him by the first part of the section. That
right is given to a person who has constructed the machine or
VoL. cMx-:--18

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

article, as well as to one who has purchased it; and the plain
declaration of the second part of the section is, that, where
the purchase or construction of the machine or article took
place more than two years prior to the application for the
patent, or where the use or sale by the person who so purchased or constructed the machine or article took place at a
time more than two years prior to the application, the patent
becomes invalid. It is not possible in any other way to give
full effect to the word "constructed," in the first part of the
section. The word "purchased" and the word "constructed'
are used in the same connection, and in connection with the
words "so made or purchased," which occur afterwards; and
the word "purchased" cannot be limited to a purchase from
the applicant for the patent, nor can the word "constructed"
be limited to a construction with the consent and allowance
of such applicant, without interpolating into the statute the
words "consent or allowance." We can find no warrant for
doing this. The evident purpose of the section was to fix a
period of limitation which should be certain, and require only
a calculation of time, and should not depend upon the "uncertain question of whether the applicant had consented to or
allowed the sale or use. Its object was to require the inventor
to see to it that he ified his application within two years from
the completion of his invention, so as to cut off all question of
the defeat of his patent by a use or sale of it by others more
than two years prior to his application, and thus leave open
only the question of priority of invention. The evident
intention of Congress was to take away the right (which
existed under the act of 1836) to obtain a patent after an
invention had for a long period of time been in public use
without the consent or allowance of the inventor; it limited
that period to two years, whether the inventor had or had
not consented to or allowed the public use. The right of an
inventor to obtain a patent was in this respect narrowed, and
,the rights of the public as against him were enlarged, by the
act of 1839. -The language of § 21 of the act of 1870, now
§ 4886 of the Revised Statutes, is to the same effect, and
cariies out the poli~y inaugurated by the act of 1839., It

ANDREWS v. HOVEY.
Opinion of the Court.

allows a patent to be granted only for an invention which
was not in public use or on sale for more than two years
prior to the application for the patent, subject to the defence
of abandomnent within such two years, which is also the
requirement of § 61 of the same act; while § 37 of that act
requires that a person, in order to have the right to use and
sell, without liability, a specific thing made or purchased
prior to the application fo the patent, shall have purchased it
of the inventor or constructed it with his knowledge and consent.
In view of the fact that § 37 of the act of 1870 reenacts
the first part of § 7 of the act of 1839, with the addition, ex
tindustria, of the requirement, in order to confer the right to
use the specific thing in question, that the purchase of it
should have been from the inventor or the construction of it
should have been with his knowledge and consent, and of the
further fact that § 241 of the act of 1870 reenacts the second
part of § 7 of the act of 1839, and does not contain a requirement that the.public use or sale for more than two years prio
to the application shall have been with the consent or allowance of the patentee, miorder to invalidate the patent, it may
fairly be said, that it Was the view of Congress, that § 7 of
the act of 1839 did not require, as an element, the knowledge,
consent or allowance of the applicant.
Views are to be found in decisions of Circuit Courts, not in
harmony with the construction we have thus put upon § 7 of
the act of 1839. That construction was upheld in the very full
opinion given by Judge Love, one of the judges who sat in the
present case in the Circuit Court. 5 McCrarly, 204. It was
indicated as the proper construction in the opinion of this
court in IElizabetk v. Pavement,Co., 97 U. S. 126, 134, which
was the case of a patent issued under the act of 1839, and
where this court, speaking by Mr. Justice Bradley, said, in
regard to that act: "An abandonment of an invention to the
public may be evinced by the conduct of the inventor at any
time, even within the two years named in the law. The effect of
the law is, that no such consequence will necessarily follow
from the invention being in public use or on sale, with the in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

ventor's consent and allowance, at any time within two years
before his application; but that, if the invention is in public
use or on sale prior to that time, it will be conclusive evidence
of abandonment, and the patent will be void."
The decree of the Circuit Court is
Afflrmed.

SIEMENS'S ADMINISTRATOR v. SELLERS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNrSYLVANIA.
Argued October 17, 1887.-Decided November 14, 1887.

The English letters-patent dated January 22, 1861, and sealed July 19, 1861.
issued to Charles William Siemens and Frederick Siemens for "improvements in furnaces," and the American letters-patent No. 41,788, dated
March 1, 1864, issued to C. W. and F. Siemens for "improved regenerator furnaces" describe the same furnace, in all essential particulars.
and are substantially for the same invention.
When American letters-patent are issued covering the same invention
described in foreign letters-patent of an earlier date, the life of the
American patent is not prolonged by the fact that it also covers hnprovements upon the invention as patented in the foreign country.
The condition imposed by the act of July 4, 1836, 5 Stat. .117, that the
term of a patent for an invention which has been patented in a foreign
country shall commence to run from the time .of publication of the
foreign patent, was not repealed or abrogated by the act of larch 2,
1861, 12 Stat. 246.
In the construction of a statute, although the voids of the act are ge'nerally to have a controlling effect, yet the interpretation of those words
-must often be sought from the surrounding circumstances and previous
history.

ty for an account, and for an injunction to restrain
ement of letters-patent. Decree dismissing the bill
froma which the complainants appealed. After the cause was
docketed in this court, one of the appellants died, and his
administrator with the Will annexed appeared and prosecuted
his appeal. The following is the case as stated by the court.
This is a suit on a patent granted to the appellants, Charles

