OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

THE EXCELSIOR.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.

Submitted October 11, 18S7.-Decided October 24, 1887.
In this case the services rendered by a corporation whose business was
that of a wrecker and salvor, to a vessel in distress were held to be
salvage services of a meritorious character.
No agreement having been made for a fixed sum to be paid, nor any binding
engagement to pay at all events, although there was an agreement to
submit to arbitration the amount to be received for the service, in case
the two principals could not agree upon a stum, it was held that there
was no bar to the claim for salvage.
Comments upon the effect of a conversation at the time between the masters
of the two vessels.
The effect of the agreement to submit to arbitration considered.
A salvage of 5$5600 having been awarded by the Circuit Court on the basis
of 3& per cent on 5160,000 of value saved, this court, not being able to
say, as a question of law, that the allowance was excessive, affirmed the
decree.

THIs was a libel in rem, in admiralty, in a cause of salvhge.
filed by the Baker Salvage Company, a corporation of Virginia, against the steamer Excelsior and her cargo, in the
District 'Court of the United States for the Eastern District
of Virginia. That court awarded to the libellant, by a decree
made on the 21st of February, 1884, the sum of $5600, as
salvage, being 34 _per cent, on $160,000, the value of the
Excelsior having been found at $150,000, and the value of her
cargo at $10,000. 19 Fd.Rep. 436. The. claimant appealed
to the Circuit Court, which, on the 19th of May, 1884, affirmed the decree of the District Court, with interest on the
$5600 from the date of the decree of the District Court, until
paid, at the rate of six per cent _per annum, and the costs of
suit.
The Circuit Court found the following facts and conclusions
of law:
"On the afternoon of the fourth of December, 1882, at five
o'clock, the steamer Excelsior, Captain T. E. Baldwin, of the

THE EXCELSIOR.
Statement of the Case.

Potomac Steamboat. Company, plying between Norfolk, Va.,
and Washington, D. C., touching at Old Pbint, Fortress Monroe, left her dock at Norfolk, steamed down the Elizabeth
River and into Hampton Roads, heading the usual course to
make a lauding. at Old Point wharf. She had on board a
competent crew and an average number of passengers, the
agreed value of the steamer being one hundred and fifty
thousand dollars and of her cargo ten thousand dollars.
"As the Excelsior was heading the aforesaid course in
Hampton Roads, at or near six P.m., the United States steam
tug Fortune came into collision with her, by an accident.
The Fortune struck the Excelsior, which is of wood, on the
starboard bow, making a hole in her hull at least 8 by 10 feet;
and, it being apparent that the Excelsior must otherwise sink
in deep water, from the quantity she was making in her hull
through the hole in her bow, she was promptly headed for
the shore, going ashore on the south side of Hampton bar, at
about its middle point, about two miles from Old Point wharf,
three or four miles from Sewell's Point, between half a mile
and a mile from the Soldiers' Home shore, the nearest shore,
and within a hundred yards of the channel, where she sank,
full of water, with a hole extending from her hurricane deck
far down under water, lying almost head on to the shore, in
water ranging in depth from six to seven feet at her bow to
from ten to twelve feet at her stern.
"After ascertaining the above soundings and landing his
passengers at Old Point Comfort, Captain 3aldwin, of the
Excelsior, proceeded to the same point and sent the following
telegram to The Baker Salvage Company, at Norfolk, Va.:
"'Dbcember 4th, 1882.
"'Send assistance, with steam pumps, to Excelsior, on
Hampton bar. Get here by low water.'
"Subsequently, Captain Baldwin sent another. telegram, as
follows:
"'Dec. 4th, 1882.
"1Del'y guaranteed. Bring steamer Resolute, a diver, with
appliances.'

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

"The first of these telegrams was received at the telegraph
office, in Norfolk, at 8.2 P.m., and the other at 9.15 P.m., on
the evening of the collision.
"The Baker Salvage Compny,through the agency of its
superintendent and general manager, Captain E. 'M. Stoddard,
at once, and vigorously, set to work in response to the telegrams, to render the aid asked for; and, at or about ten r.r..
a fully equipped expedition, under the command of Captain
Stoddard, left Berkeley, opposite Norfolk, at the intersection
of the southern and eastern branches of the Elizabeth River,
where the wharves of The Baker Salvage Company are
located, for the purpose of relieving the Excelsior. The expedition consisted of the powerful wrecking steamer Resolute,
fhobbs, master, with her stationary steam pump, capable of
pumping four hundred tons per hour, with the schooner Scud
in tow, having on board a portable steam pump capable of
pumping one hundred tons per hour, and a full complement of
wrecking material and appliances, the whole manned by a
crew of ten seamen experienced in wrecking operations, and
accompanied by a skilled diver, with diving apparatus. Captain Stoddard, making all reasonable haste, and in the exercise
of his judgment, did not attempt to go alongside of the Excelsior that night, not knowing her exact position on Hampton
bar, and being unable to identify her lights, but went directly
to Old Point wharf, where he arrived about one o'clock on
the morning of December 5th, when it was flood tide there.
Between that hour and daylight he secured the services of a
number of laborers at Old Point, whose services he anticipated
would be needed to remove the cargo, thus materially advancing the work for which he had come. At daylight on the
morning of the 5th of December, Captain Stoddard, with the
expedition above described, went to the Excelsior, and found
her lying, as above described, submerged to her main deck,
with a hole in her bow, and full of water, water standing on
her main deck aft at high tide, and about two feet below her
guards at low tide.
"The Excelsior's cargo had not been reached by the water,
being stored about amidships, which was higher than the stern.

THE EXCELSIOR.
Statement of the Case.

Captain Stoddard at once bad an interview with Captain
Baldwin, in the presence of the purser of the Excelsior. Captain Baldwin asked what it was going to cost to get the ship
off and deliver her at the railroad. Stoddard replied: It do
not know ;' to which Baldwin replied: ' This is not a salvage
service;' to which Stoddard replied: ' Call it what you please,
so I get my pay;' to which Captain Baldwin replied: 'It is
no salvage service;' and they both agreed to submit to arbitration the amount to be received for the service by The
Baker Salvage Company, in case the two companies could not
agree upon a sum.
"At this point, viz., about seven o'clock on the morning of
the 5th, Captain Stoddard began the direct operations upon
the Excelsior and her cargo, for their relief. He brought the
Scud alongside the Excelsior, for the purpose of removing the
steamer's cargo to Old Point wharf, and, placing the diving
apparatus aboard the Excelsior, set the diver to work to ascertain minutely the exact extent of the wound that had been
sustained by the steamer in the collision; and, while this was
going on, he returned to Old Point wharf in the Resolute, and
brought off the laborers above mentioned, who had been
employed to assist in the removal of cargo, and lumber to be
used by the diver in battening up the hole.
"The work of removing the cargo to Old Point wharf was
continued throughout the day, until, after three trips of the
Scud, in tow of the Resolute, it was successful between four and
five o'clock of the afternoon of the 5th of December, without
loss, the work being done under the management and at the
risk of The Baker Salvage Company, the second officer of the
Excelsior supervising the same, hurrying up the laborers, keeping their time, and seeing that nothing was stolen.
"The diver, who began his operations about seven A.M. of
the 5th of December, as aforesaid, worked,, steadily until the
night of that day, battening up the hole with plank.and covering the same with canvas. Resuming his work at an early
hour the next morning, he completed it-by one P.M. of the
same day, the 6th.
"On the afternoon of the 5th, after the removal of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

cargo to Old Point wharf had been completed, and the Scud
anchored for safety inside Hampton bar, with but one man
left aboard of her as a guard, the Resolute came alongside the
Excelsior on her starboard or weather side, put out fenders,
made fast so as to be in position to use her stationary pump,
and began to assist in the work of setting up the portable
pump on board of the Excelsior. The work of setting up this
portable pump was continued until nine P.M., the pump and all
attachments being furnished by The Baker Salvage Company,
only the steam for running it being supplied by the donkey
engine of the Excelsior, while the Resolute was lying on the
Excelsior's starboard side or windward side, as aforesaid. Between seven and eight o'clock on December 5th it began to
blow a fresh or strong breeze from the east or southeast, so as
to induce the master of the Excelsior to request that the Resolute lie alongside of the steamer, for the protection of the lives
of those aboard of her, in case her joiner work should be carried away and she should begin to break up. The Resolute
thus continued to lie bn the starboard or weather side of the
steamer, it being impracticable to shift her position to the lee
side in such a breeze and with such a sea on; and, while lying
thus, she afforded considerable protectidn to the Excelsior,
acting as a breakwater to her, and incurred considerable risk
herself. This wind, which produced quite a rough sea, lasted
from between seven and eight o'clock in the evening of
December 5th until about one o'clock on the following morning, during which time a portion of the crew of the Resolute
had to be constantly at work putting in new fenders between
the steamers as others would be crushed by the chafing, and
keeping them in position; to do which it was necessary to go
between the two steamers upon their guards, with no little
danger to life or limb, Steam was also kept up on the
Resolute all night, for immediate use, in case of emergency.
"Soon after daylight on the morning of the 6th work
was resumed; the diver and gang battening up the hole,
the crew of the Resolute, under the superintendence of Captain Stoddard, getting ready the stationary pump on board
the Resolute, and completing the work of setting up the port-

THE EXCELSIOR.
Statement of the Case.

able pump on board the Excelsior that had been begun the
previous evening. The latter was completed about nine A.M.,
of this day, the 6th, as aforesaid, and was set to work to lower
the water in the hold of the steamer, and thus assist the diver
in his work of covering the planking with canvas, by drawing
the canvas in. The stationary pump was ready by 12 M.;
and, the diver completing his work of battening soon after
that, both pumps were set to work at their full capacity, so
that, at or near 2.3 P.M., the hull of the Excelsior had been
so far freed from water, that the tug Olive Baker, that had
been previously engaged to assist in the work, and had a line
attached, hauled the steamer afloat. Captain Stoddard at
once started to Norfolk with the Excelsior, having her in tow
of the steam tugs Olive Baker and Olive Branch, and the
wrecking steamer Victoria J. Peed, while the :Resolute kept
alongside, pumping every twenty minutes, to keep the hull
free from water. Great care was exercised in towing the
the steamer across Hampton Roads and up the river to Norfolk, as the hole in her bow was only covered with pine
boards, one inch thick, and one thickness of No. 1 canvas,
which might be knocked off by any hard substance floating in
the water, that might come in contact with it. The work was
successfully accomplished, however, and by five P.Ar., of December 5th, 1882, the Excelsior had been safely docked in Norfolk.
"The salvage service was thus successfully completed within
less than 45 hburs after the aid of the salvors had been invoked,
and that without a single error of omission or commission on
their part. The work was d6ne with an energy, skill, fidelity,
and courage that admit of no question. The officers and crew
of the Excelsior rendered all the aid in their power to the
salvors."
"The point at which the Excelsior was lying is on the south
side of Hampton bar, about midway between its northeastern
and southeastern extremities, and on the northern border of
Hampton Roads; the locality, an exposed one, vessels ashore
there being exposed to all winds from the east round to the
southwest, and winds from the east come- right in from the
Atlantic Ocean, through the Capes on to the 'bar, with no

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

breakwater, except that furnished by the rip-raps and the
small shoals about it. The weather, as it actually existed
during the greater portion of the time of the salvage service
was moderate, 'ith light winds and no very heavy sea; but,
on the evening of the 5th of December, a strong breeze set in
from the east or southeast, between seven and eight o'clock,
which lasted until one o'clock on the morning of the 6th,
causing the water to be rough, and creating considerable
apprehensions for the safety of the Excelsior. This constantly
threatened danger was increased by the fact that the Excelsior
is an expensively furnished bay and river steamer, standing
very high out of the water, and composed almost entirely,
above her main deck, of light joiner work, liable to be carried
away by winds and waves, with guards from two to three feet
wide at her stern to ten or twelve feet wide at her wheelhouses, under which, in her then present position, the waves
struck with great force, since she could not rise with them,
liable to tear up her guards, and to cause her slender joiner
work to give way and the steamer to break up. These things
rendered despatch necessary.
"The Baker Salvage Company, the libellant, is a body politic
and corporate, with its principal office located at N7orfolk, in
the State of Virginia. Its business is that of wrecker and
salvor, in which it is extensively engaged, its operations being
conducted in the Atlantic Ocean and Gulf of Mfexico, and
along the coasts, of those waters and the waters tributary
thereto, wherever its services may be needed. The capital
embarked in the said business is about one hundred thousand
dollars, and it keeps constantly on hand, and in readiness for
immediate use in its business, a number of powerful steamers
and sailing vessels, proper for wrecking services, with a full
equipment of the best and most improved wrecking apparatus
and gear, such as steam pumps and connections, diving apparatus and gear, hoisting engines-, anchors, chains, and cables
of unusual size, falls, with a competent force of seamen,
navigators, and divers, who have attained skill from their
experience in wrecking operations. This immense equipment
is kept up at an average expense of five thousand dollhrs per

THE EXCELSIOR.
Statement of the Case.

month during the busy months -say, eight months in the
year - and at an average of two thousand five hundred dollars during the balance' of the year, and that, exclusive of
interest on the large amount of capital invested, being the
mere running expenses.
"In addition to the wrecking steamers Resolute and Victoria
J. Peed, and the schooner Scud, with all the wrecking appliances and apparatus its own property, which The Baker
Salvage Company had employed in this service, it had also
chartered, and used to assist in the work, the steam tugs Olive
Branch, Olive Baker, and Nettie. The Baker Salvage Company had exposed to dangers incident to this salvage service
at least fifty thousand dollars' worth of its valuable property,
which, in the case of destruction, must have been a total loss,
since insurance companies will only insure property so engaged
at exorbitant rates, if at all. And the court finds that the
libellant is entitled, for its salvage service in this cause, to the
sum of five thousand six hundred dollars, with interest thereon
from the 21st day of February, 1884, until paid;" "and the
court finds the law to be, that this is a case of salvage; " that
the alleged contract which the claimant attempts to set up is
no bar to a meritorious claim for salvage, in adniralty; that the
libellant, the salvor, is entitled to be rewarded for the salvage
service in proportion to the personal risk run by its employes
while engaged in this salvage service, to the danger to which
its valuable wrecking equipment was exposed while engaged
in this service, to the danger from which the large and valuable property of the claimant has been relieved, to the labor
expended by the salvors in rendering the salvage services, and
the promptness, skill, and energy with which those services
were rendered."
The claimant of the Excelsior and her cargo appealed to
this court, and assigned for error, (1) that the Circuit Court,
in its finding of facts, had ascertained and stated as proved,
an agreement between the libellant and the claimant for a
gan~twu meruit for the work and labor done by the libellant,
and ought not to have decreed salvage therefor; (2) that the
award 'was excessive in amount.

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Argument for Appellant.

.M'. Theodore S. Garnett for appellant.
I. While it is not contended that the libellant should not
receive a proper'compensation for the work done by him, yet
it is submitted that the question of salvage was here fairly
raised and settled between the parties before any work was
(lone on the vessel.
It was distinctly expressed by Captain Baldwin that this
service was not to be charged for as salvage, and that view
was assented to by the libellant's agent when he said, "Call it
what you please, so I get my pay," and accepted the service.
There was a distinct announcement that at all events he
must be paid, and there was immediate assent to that proposal by Captain Baldwin, for the work was at once allowed
to proceed.
Iere there was a stipulation for payment at all events, not
conditioned upon success, but to be paid at all events, and
such a bargain is inconsistent with the claim of meritorious
salvage.
Upon this point, counsel would adopt the language of the
court in the case of Tie Independence, 2 Curtis, 350, 355.
"In my judgment, a contract to be paid at all events, either
a sum certain or a reasonable sum for work, labor and the
hire of a steamer or other vessel, in attempting to relieve a.
vessel in distress, without regard to the success or failure of
the efforts thus pr.iocured is inconsistent with a claim for salvage ; and when such contract has been fairly made, it must
be held' binding by a Court of Admiralty and any claim for
salvage disallowed."
"When the owner or his representative, or both, become
personally liable by the contract to pay either an agreed sum
or a quctntuim meruit for the labor and service rendered, without regard tQ its results, the parties do not contemplate nor
engage in a salvage service, but quite a different service.
I do not perceive how a Court of Admiralty can, after
the property has been saved, set aside such a contract and declare that a salvage service was performed."
II. The award is plainly and grossly excessive.

THE EXCELSIOR.
Opinion of the Court.

If it be found that the parties were contracting for services
which were to be paid for without regard to success or failure,
then it is plain that the court erred in decreeing compensation
as salvage. The reward should have been in proportion to the
character and amount of the service rendered.
.r.

JHC.Ellis for appellee.
H.

MxR. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD, after stating the case as above
reported, delivered the opinion of the court.
(1) It is contended, on the facts found, that the question of
salvage was fairly raised and settled between the parties
before any work was done on the vessel; that what passed
amounted to an announcement by Captain Stoddard, the master of the libellant's wrecking steamer, that he must be paid
for his services at all events; that this proposal was assented
to by the master of the Excelsior; that the work proceeded
under that arrangement; and that, therefore, there could be
no claim for salvage.
It is very clear that the services rendered by the libellant to
the Excelsior constituted a salvage service of a meritorious
character. The telegrams sent to the libellant, by virtue of
which it entered upon the service, summoned it as a salvor;
and the services detailed in the finding of facts constituted
salvage services. No agreement was made for a fixed sum to
be paid, nor any binding engagement to pay at all events,
although there was an agreement to submit to arbitration the
amount to be received by the libellant for the service, in case
the two companies could not agree upon a sum. It was, however, held by this court, in the case of Th'e CarmancAe, 8 Wall.
448, 477, that "nothing short of a contract to pay a given sum
for the services to be rendered, or a binding engagement to
pay at all events, whether successful or unsuccessful in the
enterprise, will operate as a bar to a meritorious claim for
salvage."
Nor was there in this case any agreement for a quantur
mneruit for the work and labor to be done by the libellant. In
the case of The Independenee, 2 Curtis, 350, 357, the proper
VOL. cm=--4

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

rule on the subject was laid down by Mr. Justice Curtis, in
these words : "To bar a claim for salvage, where property in
distress on the sea has been saved, it is necessary to plead and
prove a binding contract to be paid at all events for the work,
labor, and service, in attempting to save the property, whether
the same should be lost or saved." A binding contract of that
character is not proved by such a conversation as took place
between the respective parties in the present case. In Th/e
Salacia, 2 Hagg. Adm. 262, 265, it was shown that the master
of the salvor vessel declared at first "that he should not
demand any salvage, but' that his crew would not work unless
paid for their labor, and that they declined taking a dollar a
day, but would take two." As to this, Sir Christopher Robinson said: "It is probable that some such conversation may
have passed at the beginning of this service, but it might not
be known what would be the extent of it; and the court is
not in the habit of considering such loose conversations as
conclusive of the merits of any case, when brought regularly
before it." In the present case, there was no assent by Captain Stoddard to the statement of Captain Baldwin that the
service was not a salvage service, and the assertion by Captain
Stoddard that the name of the service was immaterial, so long
as he should get his pay, was fairly a statement that he should
insist on his pay for the services according to their actual
'character.
The answer sets up an agreement between the masters of
the respective vessels, after the Resolute had arrived at the
place where the Excelsior was, that no salvage would be
claimed by the libellant. Not only is it not found by the
Circuit Court that any such agreement was made, but, on the
facts found, the question was left open as to whether the services were to be paid for as salvage services, in case of success.
Moreover, at the time of the conversation between the masters, the salvage service had been partly rendered, because the
expedition had been fitted out, and the Resolute and her
accompanying schooner, and the steam pumps and other appliances, and the diver, had been taken to where the Excelsior
was, in compliance with the smunmons of her master.

THE EXCELSIOR.
Opinion of the Court.

Nor can the agreement for arbitration affect the question of
a salvage service.

In the case of

ie Baisby, 10 P. D. 114,

there was an agreement to tow a ship in distress, "the matter
of compensation to be left to arbitrators at home, to be appointed by the respective owners." As to this, Sir James
Hannen said: "This, however, was valueless as an agreement.
It could not have been pleaded as any answer to an action for
salvage brought in the ordinary way in the Admiralty Division, and if effect could have been given to it at all, it would
only have been by bringing an action upon it for not submitting to arbitration."
(2) As to the amount awarded, the case is not one where,
as a question of law, this court can say that the allowance
was excessive. On the contrary, it seems to have been reasonable and fair, at least as respects the claimant of the Excelsior
and her cargo.
In the recent case in this court of T7e Connemara, 108
U. S. 352, the question involved was so fully considered that
it is only necessary to refer to that case, as establishing the
principle, that, "since the Act of 1875, in cases of salvage, as
in other admiralty cases, this court may revise the decree
appealed from for matter of law, but for matter of law only;
and should not alter the decree for the reason that the amount
awarded appears to be too large, unless the excess is so great
that, upon any reasonable view of the facts found, the award
cannot be justified by the rules of law applicable to the case."
See, also, Die Tornao, 109 U. S. 110, and The Heper, 122
U. S. 256.
The decree of the Circuit Court is
Affirmed.

