OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Syllabus.

statute against a party, the obligation of whose contract is
sought to be impaired, the latter, in my judgment, may proceed, by suit, against such officer, and thereby obtain protection in his rights of contract, as against the proposed action
of that officer. A contrary view enables the State to use her
immunity from suit to effect what the Constitution of the
United States forbids her from doing, namely, to enact statutes impairing the obligation of her contract. If an officer of
the State can take shelter behind such immunity while he
proceeds with the execution of a void enactment to the injury
of the citizen's rights of contract, it would look as if that
provision which declares that the Constitution of the United
States shall be the supreme law of the land, anything in the
constitution or laws of a State to the contrary notwithstanding, had lost most, if. not all, of its value in respect to contracts
which a State makes with individuals.
I repeat, that the difference between a suit against officers
of .the State, enjoining them from seizing the property of the
citizen, in obedience to a void statute of the State, and a suit
enjoining such officers from bringing under the order of the
State, and in her name, an action which, it is alleged, will
result in injury to the rights of the complainant, is not a
difference that affects the jurisdiction of the court, but only
its exercise of jurisdiction. If the former is not a suit against
the State, the latter should not be deemed of that class.

SPRAUL v. LOUISIANA.
ORIGINAL MOTION

IN A CAUSE

BROUGHT

UP BY WRIT OF ERROR

TO THE SUPREME COURT OF LOUISIANA.
Submitted November 21, 1887.- Decided December 5, 1887.

A supersedeas obtained by a plaintiff in error under the provisions of Rev.

Stat. ยง 1007 does not operate to enjoin the defendant in error from bringing a new suit on a new cause of action, but arising out of the same general matter, and involving the same questions of law which are brought
here for review.

SPRAUL v. LOUISIANA.

Opinion of the Court.

Tins was a motion for a rule on J. V. Guilotte, mayor of
the city of New Orleans, and Henry Larque, lessee of the
public markets of New Orleans, to show cause why they
should not be punished for a contempt of the supersedeas in
this case. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
)I&. J. Hale Syf1er and .Afr. TFest Steever for the motion.
No one opposing.
AIR.

CmiF

JusTcE

Am delivered the opinion of the

court.
This motion is denied. The plaintiffs in error were proceeded against in the name of the State of Louisiana before
the recorder of the first recorder's court of the city of New
Orleans for an alleged violation of an ordinance of that city.
The judgment of the recorder's court does not appear in the
printed record, but the case was taken by appeal to the
Supreme Court of the State, and in the opinion of that court
it is stated that the appeal was by the defendants "from judgments rendered against them for the payment of a fine, and in
default of payment sentencing them to imprisonment for the
violation of ordinance No. 4798, A. S., which forbids the
keeping of private markets within six squares of a public market within the limits of the city of New Orleans." The order
of the Supreme Court was, "that the judgment appealed from
be affirmed with costs?'
To reverse this judgment of the Supreme Court the present
writ of error was sued out, and a supersedeas obtained, in
accordance with the provisions of ยง 1007, Revised Statutes,
May 12, 1887. The complaint now is, that with this supersedeas in force, the mayor of the city and the lessee of the
public markets have caused suits to be begun in the Civil District Court of the Parish of New Orleans to enjoin the plaintiffs in error, and each of them, "from opening, maintaining,
or carrying on a private market . . . anywhere . . . in

the city of New Orleans within six squares of a public market," and "that the grounds on which said injunctions are

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

based are the same law and city ordinance, the same defendants, and the same location of mercantile business, as that
involved in said writ of error, being the same persons and
same cause of action in said injunctions, and based on the
same law and city ordinance,, identical in every particular with
the cases involved in said writ of error."
It is not alleged that any attempt has been made to carry
the judgment which is here for review into execution. The
whole gravamen of the charge made in support of this motion
is, that the mayor and lessee of the mariets have commenced
another suit in another court upon another cause of action
growing out of violations of the same ordinance. The supersedeas provided for in ยง 100T of the Revised Statutes stays
process for the execution of the judgment or decree brought
under review by the writ of error or appeal to which it belongs.
It operates on the judgment or decree, not on the questions
involved considered apart from the particular suit in which
they were decided. The new suits now complained of are not
brought to give effect to the judgment in this case, but to
enjoin the plaintiffs in error from further violations of the
ordinance which was the foundation of the prosecution now
here for review. This judgment is -inno way connected with
or made the basis of the injunction in the Civil District
Court. Both suits may involve the consideration of the validity of the same ordinance, but the last is in no sense'-process
for the execution of the judgment in the first. It follows,
that, upon the showing made by the plaintiffs in error themselves, there is no ground for proceeding "' here against the
mayor or the lessee of the market, and that the rule ought not
to issue.
________Den'ied.

M

. CniEF JusTicE WAITE.

We understand that the motions in

HUG v. LousIANA (No. 1272) ; Roucun v. LouIslAwA (No. 1273) ;
and SPRAuL v. LOUISIANA (No. 1274) ; involve precisely the same

question, and they are consequently also
.Denied.

