OCTOBER TERM1,

1887.

Argument for Appellee.

UNITED STATES v. LOUISIANA.
APPEAL FR01M THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Submitted October 11, 1SS7.-Decided October 24, 1SS7.

The Court of Claims has jurisdiction of an action by a State against the
United States for a demand arising upon an act of Congress.
The action of a State in the Court of Claims to recover moneys received by
the United States from-sales of swamp lands granted to the State by the
act of September 28, 1850, is not barred by the statute of limitations
until six years after the amount is ascertained from proofs of the sales
before the Commissioner of the General Land Office.
The direct tax laid by the act of Augnist 5, 1861, did not create any liability
on the part of the States, in which the lands taxed were situated, to pay
the tax.-

THE base is stated in the opinion of the court.
.Jlf. Attorney General and XYr. ]Te'ber J. .Jfy for appellant,
cited: Ukdted States v. Pavara, 2 Dall. 298; Spear Fed.
Judiciary, 252.; Agmes v. ansas, 111 U. S. 449; -E parte
Rwusell; 13 Wall. 66-; United States v. re1Dougall's Adminis/ttor, 121 U. S. 89; State qf Texas Case, 7 C. Cl. 301;
State qf linois Case, 20 0. Cl. 342; (S'ate qf .1eNw HTamjpoAire ase, 20 C. Cl. -394; Rice v. U;ited States, 122 U'. S.
11l; lVJ'igjht v. Roseberey, 121 U. S. 488; Five Per Cent
Cases, 110 U. S. 471; Darshall's Case, 24 C. Cl. 308;
Rainsay's Case, 14 0. 01. 367; WVoolner's Case, 13 C. C1. 355;
Portlanc Company's Case, 6 C. Cl. 441; 1.7ehols v. United
State,',7 Vall. 122; Davidson's Case, 21 C. C1. 298, and
cases therein cited.

2g.. IUlwa m . Earle for appellee, cited: Turner v. Smith,
14 Wall. 553; Beauregard v. O6ase, 91 U. S. 134; Baldwin v.
Stark, 107 U. S. 463; _2ifarquez v. -TrbZ?*s, 101 U. S. 473;
Skepey v. Cowan, 91 U. S. 330; 6peidel v. lIenriei, 120 U. S.
:377; Einigrant Co. v. County qf W'ight, 97 U. S. 339; ff grant Co. v. County of Adams, 100 U. S. 67; ills County v.
Railroad Companies, 107 U. S. 557; Ames v. Yansas, 111

UNITED STATES v. LOUISIANA.
Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 449; Birs v. Preston, 111 U. S. 252; Five Per Cent
Cases, 110 U. S. 471; Tennessee v. Davis, 100 U. S. 257; State
(f Texas Case, 7 C. Cl. 301; State of Illinois Case, 20 C. C1.
:342; State of Vew Harmpshire Case, 20 C. Cl. 394.

Mln.

JUSTICE FIELD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought in the Court of Claims by the State
of Louisiana against the United States, to recover two demands, amounting in the aggregate to the sum of $71,385.83.
The first of these demands arises upon the act of Congress of
February 20, 1811, 2 Stat. 641, c. 21, "to enable the people of
Orleans to form a constitution and state government," the
fifth section of which declared that five per cent of the' net
proceeds of the sales of lands of the United States, within her
limits, after the first day of January next ensuing, should be
applied to laying out and constructing public roads and levees
Pursuant to
in the State, as its legislature might direct.
the authority thus conferred, the people of the Territory of
Orleans, represented in a convention called for that purpose,
formed themselves into a State, by the name of Louisiana, and
adopted a constitution under which the State was admitted
into the Union. The five per cent of the net proceeds of
sales of lands of the United States, made between July 1,
1882, and June 30, 1886, and due to the State by the United
States, as found by the Commissioner of the General Land
Office, amounted to $47,530.79.
The second of these demands arises upon the act of Congress of September 28, 1850, 9 Stat. 519, c. 84, "to enable the
State of Arkansas and other States to reclaim the swamp lands
within their limits," and the act of M1arch 2, 1855, 10 Stat.
634, c. 147, "for the relief of purchasers and locators of swamp
and overflowed lands." The act of September 28, 1850, granted
to the States then in the Union all the swamp and overflowed
lands, made unfit thereby for cultivation, within their limits,
which at the time remained unsold. The second section made
it the duty of the Secretary of the Interior, as soon as practicable after the passage of the act, to prepare a list of the lands
VOL. cxxm-3

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

described and transmit the same to the Governor of the State,
and at his request to cause a patent to be issued therefor. It
would seem that this duty was not discharged; and, notwithstanding tile grant was one in _piewe8eti, many of the lands

falling within the designation of swamp and overflowed lands
were sold to other parties by the United States. The act of
March 2, 1855, was designed to correct, among other things.
the wrong thus done to the State; it provided that, upon due
proof of such sales, by the authorized agent of the State, before the Commissioner of the General Land Office, the purchase money of the lands should be paid over to the State,
Such proof was not made, but equivalent proof was submitted
to the Commissioner as to the character of the lands from the
field notes of the Surveyor General of the State. This modo
of proof was accepted by the Commissioner in other cases as
early as 1850. The amount found in this way by the Commissioner on the 30th of June, 1885, to be due to the State
from the United States, on account of sales of swamp lands to
individuals, made prior to March 3, 1857, was $23,855.04.
It does not appear that there was any serious contest ijn the
Court of Claims, either as to the validity or the amount of
these demands; but it was objected that the demand arising
upon the acts of September 28, 1850, and of March 2, 1855,
ivas barred by the statute of limitations, and that both demands were set off by the unpaid balance of the direct tax
levied under the act of August 5, 1801, 12 Stat. 292, which
was apportioned to the State of Louisiana. The First Comptroller of the Treasury had, at different times previous to the
commencement of this action, admitted and certified that the
sums claimed were due to the State on account of the five per
cent net proceeds of sales of the public lands, and on account
of sales of swamp lands within the State purchased by individuals; but had directed the amounts to be credited to the State
on account upon the claim of the United States against her for
the unpaid portion of the direct tax mentioned.
It was, also, objected in the Court of Claims, and the objection is renewed here, that that court had no jurisdiction,
under the Constitution and laws of the United States, to hear

UNITED STATES

v. LOUISIANA.

Qpinion of the Court.

and determine a cause in which the State is a party in a suit
against the United States. This objection, therefore, must
first be examined ; for, if well taken, it will be unnecessary to
consider the other questions presented.
The Constitution declares that "the judicial power of the
United States shall be vested in one Supreme Court, and such
inferior courts as Congress may from time to time ordain and
establish," and "that the judicial power shall extend~to all
cases in law and equity arising under this Constitution, the
laws of the United States, and treaties made or which shall be
made under their authority; to all cases affecting ambassadors,
other public ministers, and consuls; to all cases of adiniralty
and maritime jurisdiction; to controversies to which the
United States shall be a party; to controversies between two
or more States ; between a State and citizens of another State ;
between citizens of different States ; between citizens of the
same State claiming lands under grants of different States;
and between a State or the citizens thereof and foreign States,
citizens, or subjects." This clause was modified by the Eleventh Amendment, declaring that "the judicial power shall not
be construed to extend to any suit in law or equity, commenced
or prosecuted against one of the United States by citizens of
another State, or by citizens or subjects of any foreign State."
As thus modified, the clause prescribes the limits of the
judicial power of the courts of the United States. The action
before us, being one in which the United States have consented
to be sued, falls within those designated, to which- the judicial
power extends; for, as already stated, both of the demands in
controversy arise under laws of the United States. Congress
has brought it within the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims
by the express terms of the statute defining the powers of that
tribunal, unless the fact that a State is the petitioner draws it
within the original jurisdiction of the Supreme Court. The
same article of the Constitution which defines the extent of
the judicial power of the courts of the United States, declares,
that "in all cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers.
and consuls, and those in which. a State shall be party, the
Supreme Court shall have original iurisdiction. In .all other

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

cases," "the Supreme Court shall have appellate jurisdiction,
both as to law and fact, with such exceptions and under such
regulations as the Congress shall make." Although the original
jurisdiction of the Supreme Court, where a State is a party, as
thus appears, is not in terms made exclusive, there were some
differences of opinion among the earlier judges of this court
whether this exclusive character did not follow from a proper
construction of the article. In a recent case, Ames v. .Ensas,
111 U. S. 449, this question was very fully examined, and the
conclusion reached that the original jurisdiction of the Supreme
Court, in cases where a State is a party, is not made exclusive
by the Constitution, and that it is competent for Congress to
authorize suits by a State to be brought in the inferior courts
of the United States. In that case, it is true, the action was
commenced by the State in one of her own courts, and, on
motion of the defendant, was removed to the Circuit Court of
the United States, and the question was as to the validity of
this removal. The case having arisen under the laws of the
United States, it was one of the class which could be thus
removed, if the Circuit Court could take jurisdiction of an
action in which the State was a party. It was held that the
Circuit Court could take jurisdiction of an action of that character, and the removal was sustained. The judiciary act of
1789, it is true, declares that "the Supreme Court shall have
exclusive jurisdiction of all controversies of a civil nature
where a State is a party, except between a State and its citizens, or between a State and citizens of other States, or aliens,
in which latter cases it shall have original but not exclusive
jurisdiction." This clause, however, cannot have any application to suits against the United States, for such suits were not
then authorized by any law of Congress. There could, then,
be no controversies of a civil nature against the United States
cognizable by any court where a State was a party. The act
of March 2, 1875, in extending the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court to all cases arising under the Constitution or laws of the
United States, does not exclude any parties from being plaintiffs. Whether the State could thereafter prosecute the United
States upon any demand in the Circuit Court, or the Court

UNITED STATES v. LOUISIANA.
Opinion of the Court.

of Claims, depended only upon the consent of the United
States, they not being amenable to suit except by such consent. Hlaving consented to be sued in the Court of Claims,
upon any claim founded upon a law of 'Congress, there is no
more reason why the jurisdiction of the court should not be
exercised when a State is a party, than when a private person
is the suitor. The statute makes no exception of this kind, and
this court can create none.
The statute of limitations does not seem to us to have any
application to the demand arising upon the swamp-land acts.
The act of 1850 contemplates that the Secretary of the Interior
will identify the lands described, and although the State could
not be deprived of her rights by the inaction of that officer,
lright v. Roseberry, 121 U. S. 488, 501, she was not obliged to
proceed in their assertion in the absence of such identification.
By the act of 1855, which provided for the payment to the
State of moneys received by the United States on the sales of
swamp lands. within her limits, the payment was made- to.
depend upon proof of the sales by the authorized agent of the
State before the Commissioner of the General Land Office.
No such proof was ever made or offered, and, therefore, until
in some other equally convincing mode the swampy character
of the lands sold was established to the satisfaction of the
Commissioner, no definite ascertainment of the amount due
to the State was had, so as to constitute a ground of action
for its recovery in the Court of Claims. The method of
proving the character of such lands by having recourse to the
field-notes of the public surveys of the Surveyor-General of
the State was adopted by the Commissioner as early as 1850,
and was followed by him in this case in 1885. On the 30th
of June of that year, he found in this mode and certified that
there was due to the State from such sales the amount stated
above. From that date only the six years within which the
action could be brought in the Court of Claims began to run;
and this action was commenced in September of the following
year.
Nor do we regard the unpaid portion of the direct tax laid
by the act of Congress of August 5, 1861, which was appor.

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

tioned to Louisiana, as constituting any debt to the United
States by the State in her political and corporate character,
which can be set off against her demands. 12 Stat. 292, c. 45.
That act imposed an annual direct tax of twenty millions
"upon the United States," and apportioned it to the several
States of the Union. It directed that the tax should "be
assessed and laid on the value of all lands and lots of ground,
with their improvements and dwelling houses." (Sec. 13.)
It was assessed and laid upon the real property of private
individuals in the States. Public property of the States and
of the United States was exempted from the tax. Its apportionment was merely a designation of the amount which was
to be levied upon and collected from this property of individuals in the several States, respectively. The provisions of the
act are inconsistent with any theory of the obligation of the
States to pay the sums levied. It provides for the appointment of officers to assess the property to the different holders,
and to collect the tax, and directs with minute detail the proceedings to be taken to enforce the collection, either by a distraint and sale of the personal property of the owners, or, that
failing, by a sale of the real property taxed. It allows, it is
true, the different States to assume the amounts apportioned
to them respectively, and to collect the same in their own
way by their own officers. Many of the States did thus
assume the amounts, and in such cases it may well be considered that for the sums assumed they became debtors to the
United States, and, so far as any portion of those sums has
not been paid, ,that they still remain debtors. But, unless such
assumption was had, no liability attached to any State in her
political and corporate character. The liability was upon the
individual land owners within her limits. The act declares
that the amount of the taxes assessed "shall be and remain a
lien upon all lands and other real estate of the individuals who
may be assessed for the same during two years after the time
it shall annually become due and payable." (Sec. 33.) Louisiana never assumed the payment of the taxes apportioned to
her, or of any portion of them. She allowed the government
to proceed by its officers to collect the tax from the property

UNITED STATES v. LOUISIANA.
Opinion of the Court.

holders. The amount apportioned to her was 8385,886.67;
the amount collected from the owners of land was $314,500.84;
leaving only a balance of $71,385.83. It is not for us to suggest in what way this balance may be collected. After the war,
the Secretary of the Treasury was authorized to suspend the
collection of the tax in any of the States previously declared
in insurrection, until January, 1868, and subsequently this
authority was extended to January, 1869. 14 Stat. 331, c. 298,
The Secretary acted upon this
, 14; 15 Stat. 260, c. 69.
authority, and suspended the collection. It is stated that,
since 1869, no attempts have been made by the executive
department to enforce its collection in those States. Be that
as it may, it is enough for the disposition of the present case,
that the unpaid balance of the tax apportioned to Louisiana
constitutes no debt on the part of the State in her political
and corporate character to the United States.
We p, Ave no error in the judgment of the court below,
and it is, therefore,
Affirrned.
UNITED

STATES

v.

ALABAMA.

UNITED

STATES

V. MISSISSIPPI.

Appeals from the Court of Claims. 'AIR. JUSTICE FIELD. The questions presented in these cases are covered by the decision in the
case of The United States v. The State of Louisiana; and, in conformity with it, the judgments in them must be affirmed. So
ordered.
Mr. Attorney General and Mr. Heber J. May for appellant in
each case.
-Mr. Van ff. Manning for appellee in each case.

