OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

ventor's consent and allowance, at any time within two years
before his application; but that, if the invention is in public
use or on sale prior to that time, it will be conclusive evidence
of abandonment, and the patent will be void."
The decree of the Circuit Court is
Afflrmed.

SIEMENS'S ADMINISTRATOR v. SELLERS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNrSYLVANIA.
Argued October 17, 1887.-Decided November 14, 1887.

The English letters-patent dated January 22, 1861, and sealed July 19, 1861.
issued to Charles William Siemens and Frederick Siemens for "improvements in furnaces," and the American letters-patent No. 41,788, dated
March 1, 1864, issued to C. W. and F. Siemens for "improved regenerator furnaces" describe the same furnace, in all essential particulars.
and are substantially for the same invention.
When American letters-patent are issued covering the same invention
described in foreign letters-patent of an earlier date, the life of the
American patent is not prolonged by the fact that it also covers hnprovements upon the invention as patented in the foreign country.
The condition imposed by the act of July 4, 1836, 5 Stat. .117, that the
term of a patent for an invention which has been patented in a foreign
country shall commence to run from the time .of publication of the
foreign patent, was not repealed or abrogated by the act of larch 2,
1861, 12 Stat. 246.
In the construction of a statute, although the voids of the act are ge'nerally to have a controlling effect, yet the interpretation of those words
-must often be sought from the surrounding circumstances and previous
history.

ty for an account, and for an injunction to restrain
ement of letters-patent. Decree dismissing the bill
froma which the complainants appealed. After the cause was
docketed in this court, one of the appellants died, and his
administrator with the Will annexed appeared and prosecuted
his appeal. The following is the case as stated by the court.
This is a suit on a patent granted to the appellants, Charles

SIEIENS v. SELLERS.
Statement of the Case.

W. and Frederick Siemens of Great Britain on the 12th day
of January, 1869, being a reissue of a patent originally granted
to the appellants on the 1st day of Mlarch, 1861. This patent
was for an improved regenerator furnace, so called, intended
to be used where a high degree of heat is required. By the
arrangements of this invention, the products of combustion,
after passing through the furnace, and before entering the
chimney, are utilized in heating what are called the regenerators, consisting of bricks, or other refractory materials,
loosely piled up in two pair of separate chambers through
which, alternately, after being thus heated, the air and the
gases are made to pass on their way to the furnace, and thus
become raised to an intense degree of heat before entering it.
Whilst one pair of regenerators are being thus heated by the
outgoing products of combustion, or flame, the other pair are
giving out their heat to the air and gases which are passing into the furnace; and then, by a reversal of dampers,
the current is changed, and the air and gases are made to pass
through the newly heated regenerators, and the products of
combustion, or flame, through those that have become partially cooled; and so on alternately.
The apparatus has various incidental appliances necessary to
its successful operation. Thus, as the regenerator chambers
are placed underneath the furnace, spaces are formed between
them and the furnace bottom, for the purpose of admitting a
circulation of air to cool the parts and prevent their being destroyed by the intense heat. Another arrangement is that of
a separate and distinct furnace, of peculiar form, for the consumption of the raw fuel, so constructed and operated that the
gases produced thereby are carried over by a suitable flue to
one of the heated regenerators, whilst atmospheric air is admitted into the other regenerator of the same pair. The air
and gases are thus kept separate until about to enter the furnace by separate flues, when they meet and commingle and
produce a rapid combustion and a most intense heat.
This is the general nature of the invention, and this explanation will be sufficient for understanding the claims of the
patent, which are four in number, and are as follows, to wit:

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

"We claim, in combination with a furnace A, and its chimney or smoke-discharge flue P, a system or series of air and
gas regenerators BI B2 B 3 B4, constructed substantially as specified, and having conduits and dampers arranged so that air
and gas may be led into and through such regenerators and furnace and out of the chimney, in manner and so as to be operated
as and for the purpose or purposes hereinbefore described.
"We also claim the arrangement and combination of the
air space or open chamber 0 with the furnace and its system
of regenerators, arranged and applied together substantially in
manner and so as to operate as described. [The air space here
referred to is that by which the hearth of the furnace and other
parts axe cooled and prevented from destruction by the intense
heat.]
"We also claim the arrangement and combination of the
air chamber or space D, or the same and the space E, with the
furnace, regenerators, conduits, and damper chests applied
thereto, the whole being substantially as specified. [The air
chamber D admits the atmospheric air to the regenerator.]
"We also claim the combination of a furnace with one or
more regenerators or means of receiving its waste smoke and
gaseous products, and intercepting or receivingheat therefrom,
and also with means or devices by which all or a portion of
the heat so intercepted or received may be absorbed by the
influent air or gas during its passage into or to such furnace, for the purpose of improving or promoting combustion
therein."
The defendants do not deny that the appellants were the
authors of the very ingenious invention claimed by the patent;
and they do not seriously deny that they use it. The principal defence which they set up is, that the appellants took out
an English patent for the same invention, dated January 22,
1861, and sealed July 19, 1861; and that, by force of the acts
of 1839 and 1861, the American patent expired at the end of
seventeen years from the sealing of the English patent, namely, on the 19th day of July, 1878; and they deny that they
used the said invention before the last-mentioned date, and no
evidence is given that they did do so.

SIEMENS v. SELLERS.
Argument for Appellants.

iJfr. Charles S. I-itman for appellants.
I. The invention claimed in the complainants' reissued letterspatent was not "patented in a foreign country more than six
months prior to the application," because: (1) It is not claimed
in the English Letters-Patent, No. 167, of 1861. [Mr. Whitman compared the two specifications at length in support of
this contention.] (2) It is not described in the said English
patent in such full, clear, and exact terms as to enable any
person skilled in the art or science to which it appertains to
make, construct, and practise the invention patented.
A person skilled in the art of building furnaces could not
construct a furnace capable of use from the specification and
drawing of English patent No. 167. *The grant of the foreion
patent raises no presumption that the description is sufficiently
full and clear to enable this to be done. Seymour v. Osbone,
11 Wall. 516; Bill v. Evans, 6 Law Times N. S. 90; Cohn v.
United States Corset Co., 93 U. S. 366; C'ahill v. Brown, 15
Off. Gaz. 697.
The defendant, upon whom the burden of proof rests, has
introduced no testimony on that point. iNovelty can only be
negatived by proof which puts the fact beyond reasonable
doubt. CoJfln v. Ogden; 18 Wall. 120; Parliam v. A achine
Co., 4 Fish. 468, 482; Skuley v. Sanders.on, 8 Fed. Rep. 905;
Green v. Irench, 11 Fed. Rep. 591; Wood v. .Aill Co., 4 Fish.
561; 1awes v. A.tisdel, 2 B. & A. 10; Bignali v. Harvey, 5
B. & A. 636.
The commissioner having granted the extension for seventeen years from its date, it will be presumed that he acte.
within the law. Corning v. Burden, 15 How. 271; Wilder -,
XcCormick, 2 Blatchford, 31; Alden v. Dewey, 1 Story, 336,
lotcekis v. Greenwood, I McLean, 456; S. C. on appeal, 11
Hlow. 248.
For, if it was his duty to limit the term, and he has not
done so, the conclusion must be that the invention was not
described or shown in the English patent. Philadelphia&
Trenton, ailroadv. Stimpson, 14 Pet. 448.
There are two sources to which we are entitled to resorb ir

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Argument for Appellants.

construing the claims: (1) The state of the art prior to the
patentee's invention; (2) the description in the specification.
-The state of the art prior to the joint invention of 0. W. & F.
Siemens is illustrated by the patent granted to Frederick
Siemens in 1856. The scope of a joint invention and the
claims of a patent founded thereon will be ascertained and
limited in view of pre-existing devices, which were the sole
invention of one of the joint patentees. .oykins & Dickinson
Xoamufacturing Co. v. Corbin, 14 Blatchford, 396. It is not,
of course, contended that the English patent of Frederick
Siemens, above referred to,.describes or shows an invention
which may be reduced to practice, but it is submitted that it
should be considered in construing the claims of the reissue.
Letters-patent may be construed in the light of the cotemporaneous construction of the inventor. Trader v. X2essmore, 1
B. & A. 639. The application of this rule will establish that
the theories of the defendants' experts regarding the scope of
English patent 167, and also of the reissue, are erroneous, and
that they have entirely misunderstood the invention disclosed
by these patents. It will be obvious, from a perusal of their
testimony, that what they consider the primary and essential
features of the Messrs. Siemens's joint invention is the sole invention of Mr. Frederick Siemens, and is claimed by him as
such in his English patent of 1856.
II. But if it be admitted that this claim is anticipated by
the English patent of 1861, this would not invalidate the first
three claims of the patent. We maintain that a patent granted
in this country, subsequent to the act of 1861, and prior to the
act of 1870, for a term of seventeen years from the date of
issue for an invention which was also patented in a foreign
country by the same person, "more than six months prior to
his application," under the atet of 1861, "remains in force for
the term of seventeen years from the date of issue."
Under the act of 1861, the patent upon which this suit is
brought, runs, according to its tenor, and "remains in force,
for the term of seventeen years from March 1, 1861," even if
it is proved that the whole or any part of the invention claimed
in said patent was patented in England "more than six months

SIEMENS v. SELLERS.
. Argument for Appellants.

prior" to the application in this country; because the proviso of the act of 1839, "that in all such cases every such
patent shall be limited to the term of fourteen years from the
(late of publication of such foreign patent," was repealed by
the act of 1861, which provides that "all patents hereafter
granted shall remain in force for the term of seventeen years
from the date of issue," and repeals "all acts or parts of acts
heretofore passed which are inconsistent with the provisions
of this act."
If violence is to be done to the usage of the English language
in giving words a meaning which they never were supposed to
have before, and construing the 16th section of the act of 1861
to say one thing and mean another, such a departure from the
literal meaning of the words used in the statute can only be
excused on the ground that it is permissible to ascertain the
source of the intention of the legislature by a consideration of
other acts in pari materia,the mischiefs of which were the
cause of the passage of the act of 1861. Let us first consider
the acts in pan materia, which were not in force at the date
of the patent.
[Mr. Whitman then examined the statutes from 1790 to
1870, and continued:]
It is obvious that the act of 1861 introduced two new features: First. It abolished extensions, except by special act of
Congress. Second. It established a fixed and certain term of
seventeen years for all patents in lieu of a term depending
upon the discretion of the Commissioner of Patents.
That the object of the lav was to abolish extensions appears
upon its face, and also from the action of Congress. In exchange for the right of applying for a seven years' extension
it gave to the inventor an absolute and certain term of seventeen years, and as alicns and persons who had patented their

inventions abroad more than six months prior to taking out a
patent in this country, possessed the right of applying for a
seven years' extension, and as extensions were frequently
granted to such persons, it is obvious that they were also entitled to this absolute term of seventeen years. The statute
abolished the power of the commissioner to limit the term of

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

the patent, which, as we have seen, he possessed under the
act of 1836, in order to render it certain that in all cases the
patentee should enjoy the full term of seventeen years given
in lieu of the privilege of obtaining an extension.
The section under consideration provides* that "all patents
hereafte r granted shall remain in force for the term of seventeen years from the date of issue." What is the meaning of
the word "issue" ? Webster defines it as the act of sending
out or causing to go forth, delivery, the issue of an order from
a commanding officer or a court, the issue of money from the
treasury. Obviously it is used in this sense in the patent
laws. In reading the section of the act of 1861, under consideration, it strikes one forcibly that there is really nothing
to construe. The object of the law was to abolish extensions,
which, owing to the bad methods at the Patent Office, had
become unpopular, and to grant in lieu thereof a longer term
to persons who, under the former legislation, would have been
entitled to apply for an extension, including, of course, inventors who had first patented their inventions abroad. This is
universally admitted. The object and policy of the law being
known, and its language perfectly plain and unambiguous, it
would seem that there can be no construction where there is
nothing to construe. For the court to say that § 16 of the
act of 1861 applies only to a particular class of patents,
would be the exercise oX legislative power which the court
does not possess; it woiod change the terms and language of
the section, and would, in fact, make it another enactment.
JM'. S. S. ]ollingsworta and Z'. Joseph C. Fraley for appellees.

rN. JUSTIcE BrADLET, after stating the case as reported
above, delivered the opinion of the court.
The questions to be decided, therefore, are whether the
English patent (which was given in evidence) was for the
same invention as the American patent; and, if so, whether
the latter is limited to expire at the end of seventeen years

SIEMEN'S v. SELLERS.
Opinion of the Court.

from the sealing of the former. We think that both of these
questions must be answered in the affirmative.
As to the first question, we have carefully compared the
tivo patents, the English and American, and can see no essential difference between them. They describe the same
furnace in all essential particulars. The English specification is more detailed, and the drawings are more minute
and full; but the same thing is described in both. There is
only one claim in the English patent, it is true. But that
claim, under the English patent system, entitled the patentees
to their entire invention, and is at least as broad and comprehensive as all four claims in the American patent. It is in
these terms:
"Having now described the nature of our invention and the
best modes we are acquainted with of performing the same,
we wish it to be understood that we do not confine ourselves
to the precise details shown on the accompanying drawings;
but we claim as our invention the various arrangements of reIgenerative furnaces worked by the gases resulting from an
imperfect combustion of solid fuel in separate places, as hereinbefore set forth."
It is contended by the counsel of the complainants, that the
American patent contains improvements which are not exhibited in the English patent. But if this were so, it would
not help the complainants. The principal invention is in
both; and if the American patent contains additional improvements, this fact cannot save the patent from the operation of the law which is invoked, if it is subject to that law at
all. A patent cannot be exempted from the operation of the
law by adding some new improvements to the invention; and
cannot be construed as running partly from one date and
partly from another. This would be productive of endless
confusion.
We have, then, to examine the question whether the term
of the American patent was limited to run from its own date,
or from the date (or sealing - which is equivalent to the publication) of the English patent. The reissued patent sued on
is dated January 12, 1869, but the original patent, which is

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

the one to be looked at, was dated Mlarch 1, 1864. It was
issued, therefore, before the act of July 8, 1870, 16 Stat. 198,
c. 230, by which the patent laws were revised, and whilst the
acts of July 4, 1836, 5 Stat. 117; March 3, 1839, 3 Stat. 353;
and March 2, 1861, 12 Stat. 246, were in force. The act of
1836, as well as previous acts, made the term of a patent fourteen years; but it authorized an extension of the term for
seven years longer, if it should appear that the patentee, without neglect or fault on his part, failed to obtain a reasonable
remuneration for his invention. By the same act (Q7) if an
invention for which a patent was sought had been patented
in a foreign country, before the application for a patent here,
it was a bar to obtaining a patent in this country, unless (§ 8)
such foreign letters-patent had been taken out by the applicant
himself within six months previous to the filing of his specification and drawings. The act of 1839, § 6, removed the limitation of six months, and allowed a patent to be taken out here
at any time after the inventor had taken out a patent for the
same invention in a foreign country, provided it should not
have been introduced into public and common use in the
United States prior to the application for a patent here:
"And proriceci alwo, that in all cases every such patent shall
be limited to the term of fourteen years from the date or publication of such foreign letters-patent."
The act of 1861 introduced several changes in the administration of the Patent Office, and gave a right to patents for
designs. The last section (§ 16) declared as follows, to wit,
"that all patents hereafter granted shall remain in force for the
term of seventeen years from the date of issue; and all
extension of such patents is hereby prohibited."
The act of 1870, which was a revision of all previous laws
relating to patents, continued the period of seventeen years as
the term of a patent, and in case a foreign patent had been
previously issued, declared that the American patent should
expire at the same time with the foreign patent, or, if more
than one, at the same time with the one having the shortest
term; but, in no case, for a longer term than seventeen years.
This provision is substantially carried forward into the Revised
Statutes, § 4887.

SIEMENS v. SELLERS.
Opinion of the Court.

The appellants contend that the act of 1861 repealed that
portion of the act of 1839 which declared that a patent should
be limited to the term of fourteen years from the date or publication of prior foreign letters-patent for the same invention.
So far as the period of fourteen years is concerned, this is,
undoubtedly, true. Prior to 1861 all patents, as we have seen,
were granted for the term of fourteen years, with a right,
under certain circumstances, to an extension for seven years
longer. This right of extension was attended with many
inconveniences and much expense to meritorious patentees,
and Congress, by the act of 1861, cut it off, and made the
term of all patents seventeen years- a compromise between
fourteen and twenty-one years. The act had nothing to do
with the question of foreign patents, but only with the term
for which patents should ordinarily run; and the period of
seventeen years, without any privilege of extension, was
adopted in lieu of fourteen years with a provisional right of
extension. That was the sole point before the legislative
mind. Seventeen years limit was substituted for fourteen
years. That was all that was intended or thought of. We
are of opinion, therefore, that the condition imposed by the
act of 1839, that the term of a patent for an invention which
has been patented in a foreigm country, shall commence to run
from the time of publication of the foreign patent, was not
repealed or abrogated by the act of 1861. If it was, it follows
that there was a period of nine years, from 1861 to 1870, in
which our patent system presented the anomaly of allowing
patents to be taken out in this country at any lenogth of time
after the invention had been patented abroad, and without
being subject to any condition, limitation, or restriction.
This can hardly be supposed to have been the intention of
Congress.
No doubt, the words of a law are generally to have a controlling effect upon its construction; but the interpretation of
those words is often to be sought from the surrounding
circumstances and preceding history. From the. history of
the law in this case, as exhibited in previous enactments, and
from the evident object and puipose of § 16 of the act of 1861,

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Counsel for Parties.

we are satisfied that the words there used to define and limit
the term during which patents thereafter granted should
remain in force, namely, "seventeen years from the date of
issue," were only intended to change the length of the tern,
and not the point of its commencement. The latter continued
as before, at "the date of issue," as defined by previous laws
- referring either to the issue of the American patent itself,
when no foreign patent had been previously obtained, or to
that of the latter when such a patent had been obtained. This
view of the construction and meaning of the act of 1861 was
fully explained and enforced by Mr. Justice Blatchford in the
case of Do Filorez v. ]?aynolds, 17 Blatcbford, 436; S. C. 8
Fed. Rep. 434.
The decree of the Circuit Court is aflrned.

WILKINSON v. NEBRASKA, ex tel. CLEVELAND
SOCIETY FOR SAVINGS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR

THE

DISTRICT OF INEBRASRA.
Submitted November 1, 1887.-Decided -November 14, 1887.

The proviso in § 6 of the act of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 552, c. 373, concerning the jurisdiction over suits which had been removed from a state
court prior to the passage of the act, relates only to the jurisdiction of
Circuit Courts of the United States, and does not confer upon this court
jurisdiction over an appeal from a judgment remanding a cause to a state
court; but such jurisdiction was expressly taken away by the last paragraph of § 2 of the act, taken in connection with the repeal of § 5 of the
act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 470.
THIS was a motion to dismiss, united with a motion to
affirm. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

.MY,. J. Xt.

TFoolworth for the motions.

.!r. A. J. Poppleton and .Mr. John 3.f. Thurston opposing.

