OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Counsel for Parties.

we are satisfied that the words there used to define and limit
the term during which patents thereafter granted should
remain in force, namely, "seventeen years from the date of
issue," were only intended to change the length of the tern,
and not the point of its commencement. The latter continued
as before, at "the date of issue," as defined by previous laws
- referring either to the issue of the American patent itself,
when no foreign patent had been previously obtained, or to
that of the latter when such a patent had been obtained. This
view of the construction and meaning of the act of 1861 was
fully explained and enforced by Mr. Justice Blatchford in the
case of Do Filorez v. ]?aynolds, 17 Blatcbford, 436; S. C. 8
Fed. Rep. 434.
The decree of the Circuit Court is aflrned.

WILKINSON v. NEBRASKA, ex tel. CLEVELAND
SOCIETY FOR SAVINGS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR

THE

DISTRICT OF INEBRASRA.
Submitted November 1, 1887.-Decided -November 14, 1887.

The proviso in § 6 of the act of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 552, c. 373, concerning the jurisdiction over suits which had been removed from a state
court prior to the passage of the act, relates only to the jurisdiction of
Circuit Courts of the United States, and does not confer upon this court
jurisdiction over an appeal from a judgment remanding a cause to a state
court; but such jurisdiction was expressly taken away by the last paragraph of § 2 of the act, taken in connection with the repeal of § 5 of the
act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 470.
THIS was a motion to dismiss, united with a motion to
affirm. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

.MY,. J. Xt.

TFoolworth for the motions.

.!r. A. J. Poppleton and .Mr. John 3.f. Thurston opposing.

WILKINSON v. NEBRASKA.
Opinion of the Court.

Ma.CminF JusTE WAiTE delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error for the review of an order of the Circuit Court remanding a suit which had been removed from the
Supreme Court of the State of Nebraska. The suit was for a
mandamus to compel Wilkinson, the treasurer of Dakota
County, to apply certain moneys in his hands, collected for
that purpose, to the payment of past-due coupons detached
from bonds issued by the county. It was begun February 14.
1887. The defendants answered M arch 1, 1s87, denying the
validity of the bonds, and at the same time they presented
their petition for the removal of the suit to the Circuit Court
of the United States for the district of Nebraska, on the
ground that the relator was a citizen of Ohio and they were
citizens of Nebraska. The state court directed the removal
April 6, 1887, and a copy'of the record was entered in the
Circuit Court on the 19th of the same month. On the 27th of
May the relator moved to remand the suit "on the ground
that the Circuit Court was without jurisdiction to review the
said cause, and to hear and determine the same." This motion
was granted the same day, and thereupon the present writ of
error was sued out by the defendants, which the relator now
moves to dismiss for want of jurisdiction.
We have already decided at the present term, in Mforey v.
Loc.hart, a te, page 56, that since the act of March 3,
1887, 24 Stat. 552, c. 373, no appeal or writ of error lies to
this court under the last paragraph of § 5 of the act of March
3, 1875, from an order of the Circuit Court remanding a suit
which had been removed from a state court. That, however.
was a case ir) hich the suit was begun and the removal had
after the act of 1887 went into effect. Here the suit was
begun and a petition for removal filed in the state court before
the act, and this it is contended saves to these parties their
right to a writ of error under the act of 1875, 18 Stat. 470.
because of a proviso in § 6 of that of 1887, in these words:
"Provided, that this act shall not affect the jurisdiction over
or disposition of any suit removed from the court of any State,
or suit commenced in any court of the United States, before

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Syllabus.

the passage hereof except as otherwise expressly provided in
this act."
This, in our opinion, relates only to the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court and the disposition of the suit on its merits; and
has no reference to the jurisdiction of this court under the act
of 1S75 for the review by appeal or writ of error of an order
of the Circuit Court remanding the cause. That was "expressly provided" for in the last paragraph of § 2 of the act
of 1887, in which it was enacted that "whenever any cause
shall be removed from any state court into any Circuit Court
of the United States, and fhe Circuit Court shall decide that
the cause was improperly removed, and order the same to be
remanded to the state court from whence it came, such remand
shall be immediately carried into execution, and no appeal or
writ of error from the decision of the Circuit Court so remanding such cause shall be allowed." This provision, when taken
in connection with the repeal by § 6 of the last paragraph of
§ 5 of the act of 1875, shows umnistakably an intention on
the part of Congress to take away all appeals and writs of
error to this court from orders thereafter made by Circuit
Courts, remanding suits which had been removed from a state
court, and this whether the suit was begun and the removal
had before or after the act of 1887.
The motion to dismiss is granted.

SANDS v. MANqISTEE RIVER IMPROVEMENT COM1PANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
Argued October 31, 1837.-Decided November 14, 1887.

The exaction of tolls, under a state statute, for the use of an improved natural waterway is not within the prohibition of the Constitution of the
United States that no State shall deprive a person of his property without due process of law.
The internal commerce of a State, that is, the commerce which is wholly

