OCTOBER TERIT,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

JEWELL v. KNIGHT.
APPFEAL

ROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
Argued November 3, 4, 1887. -Decided

December 5,1887.

Questions certified to this court upon a division of opinion of two judges
in the Circuit Court must be distinct points of law, clearly stated, so that
they can be definitely answered, without regard to other issues of law or
of fact; and not questions of fact, or of mbxed law and fact, involving
inferences of fact from particular facts stated in the certificate; nor yet
the whole case, even if divided into several points.
Whether a sale and delivery of a debtor's stock of goods, by way of preference of a bona fide creditor, is fraudulent against other creditors,
involves a question of fact, depending upon all the circumstances, and
cannot be referred to this court by certificate of division of opinion.
BILL IN EQUITY by general creditors of John Knight against
him, his wife, Stoughton A. Fletcher and Francis M. Churchman. After a hearing upon pleadings and proofs before the
Circuit Judge and the District Judge, the bill was dismissed,
and they signed the following certificate of division of opinion:
"The defendant John Knight was a merchant engaged in
the railway-supply business at Indianapolis. Lie had been
engaged in such business for several years prior to May 3,
1879. The defendants Fletcher & Churchman were his bankers, and the defendant Eliza J. Knight is his wife.
"The complainants are Eastern manufacturers or merchants,
residing at Hartford, Connecticut, and Pittsburgh, and have
sold goods to Knight for which they have never been paid.
"In December, 1878, Knight borrowed from his wife $10,000, which she raised by mortgaging her separate real estate.
Ie gave her a note at the time of the loan, evidencing the
indebtedness. There is no evidence impeaching the bona Xtdes
of this transaction between Knight and his wife. The money
so raised was used by Knight in his business.
"Knight was also indebted to Fletcher & Churchman, in the
sum of $10,000, which indebtedness was evidenced by various
promissory notes, of which a note for $4000 matured March

JEWELL v. "KNIGHT.
Statement of the Case.

6, 1879, and othe notes for $6000 matured at different dates
up to April 18, 1879.
"Afterwards, on March 1, 1879, a note due one day after
date was given by Knight to Fletcher & Churchman as collateral security for the Qther notes. The object of giving this
note was to put it in the power of Fletcher & Churchman to
sue and obtain judgment at any time they desired.
"Besides these, Knight owed mercantile debts to manufacturers and dealers living in other cities to a considerable
amount, to wit, about $12,000. He was also indebted to
George P. Bissell, trustee, for borrowed money to the amount
of $45,867.85, which was secured by a mortgage upon real
,estate, and default had been made in payment of interest .on
this mortgage'debt, but of this debt Knight was personally
bound for the payment of $28,770.90 only. Knight and
Churchman then supposed that Knight was personally liable
for the whole debt.
"Foreclosure proceedings had been commenced by Bissell in
January, 1879, and Knight, about that time, had some negotiations with Bissell, the object of which was to induce him to
agree to take the mortgaged property in full satisfaction of the.
mortgage debt, and exonerate Knight's personal estate. Bissell
refused, and pressed his suit with the purpose, as he informed
Knight, of taking personal judgment against Knight, collecting
what he could by levy and sale of his personal property, and
enforcing his mortgage lien for the balance.
"Fletcher & Churchman were apprised of Bissells suit, and
of his purpose to take personal judgment against Knight and
levy upon his personal property, and they were also apprised
of Knight's efforts to settle with Bissell, and informed Knight
that if those efforts were fruitless they would protect themselves, and requested Knight to execute for them a cognovit
upon which they could take judgment at any time they saw
fit. Mrs. Knight insisted that she -should be put on an equal
footing with Fletcher & Chuichman, and it was finally agreed
that the cognovit should include her debt also, and it was so
made and executed on March 17, 1879, and delivered into
Churchman's custody to take judgment when he saw fit. By

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

this arrangement it was in the power of Fletcher & Churchman
and Mrs. Knight at any time to take judgment; it was left
wholly to them to determine when judgment should be taken,
though Knight begged them to postpone as long as they could,
saying he still had hopes of settling with Bissell. Fletcher &
Churchman did not agree to delay, but it was understood
between them and Knight that unless it became necessary for
their protection against Bissell or any other person (there
being, however, no expectation of suit by any other person,
nor that there would be any necessity for the use of the cognovit.if Bissell could be persuaded to take the property covered
by his mortgage in satisfaction of his demand), they would not
take judgment until Knight could see Bissell again; and accordingly they did wait until May 1, 1879, before they took any
steps to put their claim in judgment. Knight did not see or
communicate with Bissell until April 28, 1879, when, as Knight
had expected, Bissell came out to Indianapolis. Knight then
saw him, and again requested ]Bissell to take the mortgaged
property for the debt, but Bissell refused to do so, and Knight
made no further effort to induce him to make that arrangement. :Meanwhile, from the date of the cognovit to May 1,
a period of six weeks, Knight held himself out as a solvent merchant worthy of credit, and, with the knowledge of the other
defendants, went on with his business as usual, buying and
selling goods.
"His standing as a business man was good, and be could
buy goods on credit for any reasonable amount during that
time, and did buy to replenish his stock as he had been in the
habit of doing; during which time his purchases amounted to
$4113.94, and his sales amounted to $ 5249.64.
"Knight had been dealing with the complainants, Spang,
Chalfant & Co., during a period of four years, and with the
complainants, Pliny Jewell & Sons, for eighteen months prior
to May 1, 1879. The goods for which he owed Jewell & Sons
were purchased as follows: February 19, 1879, $379.36 ; April
22, 1879, $45.57; for which February purchase, on April 14,
1879, he gave them his acceptance, payable July 2, 1879. The
goods for which he owed Spang, Chalfant & Co. were pur-

JEWELL v. KNIGHT.
Statement of the Cas.

chased as follows: December 17, 1878, $75.94; April 7, 1879,
$849.80, on 90 days' credit. No part of either debt was paid.
"On or abo .t May 1, 1879, Churchman, of Fletcher &
Churchman, heard that Bissell was pressing his suit to judgment, and he therefore requested Ayres, the attorney named
in the cognovit, to proceed at once to take judgment, and judgment was entered upon the cognovit in the Superior Court of
Marion County May 1, 1879, for $20,352.22, the amount due
Fletcher & Churchman and Mrs. Knight. Execution was
promptly issued and came to the hands of the sheriff XMay 1,
1879. No levy was made, though the lien of the execution
attached to the personal property of Knight when the 'writ
came to the sheriffs hands, provided that such a writ, issued
upon a judgment so obtained, could create a lien.
"On May 3, 1879, Knight suggested to, Fletcher & Churchman and Mrs. Knight that more money could be 7ealized out
of his stock of goods by selling them out from the store in the
usual way than by sale on execution. He gave it as his opinion that the stock was worth $20,000. * Ayres, who was Mrs.
"Knight's counsel, was thereupon consulted about the sale of
the goods to Fletcher & Churchman and Mrs. Knight, and
advised it. Thereupon an agreement was made between
Knight and Fletche& & Churchman and Mrs. Knight that
Knight should turn over the goods to them in satisfaction of
their judgment against him and of his debts to them. The
stock on hand was really not worth $20,000, but was $5000 or
$6000 short of that, as shown by subsequent invoice and sales
after the arrangement was made. Fletcher & Churchman and
Mrs. Knight took possession of the stock of goods on May 3,
1879, and put Knight in to sell out the stock as their agent in
the ordinary course of business. There was no agreement as
to his salary, though he took out of the proceeds of saled ten
to fifteen dollars per week for his services.
"The business was 6arried on by Fletcher & Churchman and
Mrs. Knight in this way until August 12, 1879, when Iletcher
& Churchman became dissatisfied and the partnership was
dissolved. The goods and proceeds of sales were divided between Fletcher & Churchman and Mrs. Knight equally, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

Fletcher & Churchman's share of the goods was removed from
the store. The goods on hand amounted to $9449.88. The
Mrs.
money realized from sales amounted to $5156.52.
Knight's half of these amounts was applied in payment of
the indebtedness of Knight to her, and Fletcher & Churchman's share on thelindebtedness of Knight to them. But as
the amount received by Fletcher & Churchman fell short of
paying his debt to them in the sum of $2805, they demanded
of Knight that he should give them a new note for this sum,
on the ground that he had overstated the amount of goods at
the time they purchased them. Knight thereupon gave them
a note for this balance.
"The conplainants, Jewell & Sons, recovered judgment
against John Knight in the Superior Court of Marion County
on March 23, 1881, for $440.20 and costs; and the complainants, Spang, Chalfant & Co., recovered judgment against
Knight in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Indiana for $1032 on May 3, 1881. Execution
was issued on the judgment in favor of P. Jewell & Sons on
April 21, 1881; and on April 22, 1881, it was returned Aulla
bona. Execution was issued on the judgment i, favor of
Spang, Chalfant & Co. on May 4, 1881, and retur d on the
,id upon
same day nul4a bona. And nothing has since been
either of these judgments.
"After this transfer of the goods by Knight to Fletcher &
Churchman and Mrs. Knight, Knight had no property subject
to execution, and was insolvent. The plaintiffs sold goods to
Knight as stated, believing him solvent and in ignorance of
the execution of said cognovit.
"That upon the hearing of the said cause before the Honorable Thomas Drummond, Judge of the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of Indiana, and the Honorable William A. Woods, District Judge of the United States
for said district, sitting with said circuit"judge, the above facts
were found, and thereupon it became a question "1st. Whether or not the delay from March 17 to May 1,
1879, in taking judgment upon the warrant of attorney, had
the effect to render the purchase which was thereafter made

JEWELL v. KNIGHT.
Counsel for Parties.

by the defendants Fletcher & Churchman and Mrs. Knight
of the stock of goods of said John Knight voidable by the
plaintiffs?
"Second. The bona $des of the original indebtedness of
Knight to Fletcher & Churchman and Mrs. Knight not being
questioned, whether or not, to render said sale void as to the
complainants or other creditors, it must not also appear that
the same was made by said John Knight with the fraudulent
intent to cheat, hinder and delay said creditors, and that said
Fletcher & Churchman and Mrs. Knight had knowledge of
that fact at the time they made the purchase.
"Third. Whether or not, if such sale is voidable by the
plaintiffs, it can be avoided by them for the payment of the
entire indebtedness of said John Knight to them, or only for
the payment of so much of said indebtedness as was contracted
after the execution of said warrant of attorney.
"Fourth. Whiether or not under the circumstances the sale
by Knight to the other defendants was fraudulent as to tho
complainants' clainis for goods sold during the time the cognovit was held-March 17 to May 1, 1879.
"Fifth. Whether under the circumstances the sale by
Knight to the other defendants was fraudulent as to the
complainants' claims for goods sold prior to March 17, 1879.
"Upon each and all of the above questions the opinions of
said judges are and were opposed; and that the points upon
which they so disagree may be ruled upon by the Supreme
Court, in pursuance of the statutes in such case made and
provided, the said judges have caused the above points upon
which -they have disagreed and are so opposed to be stated
under their direction, with the facts so found upon which thQ
disagreement occurred, and that the samp be certified and be
made part of the record in this cause, which is done accord,
ingly."
.Mr. Benjamin Harrisonand -Mr. Horace Bpeed for appellants.
.iXr. Joseph . -fYeDonald and .Ar. FerdinandWinter for
appellees. .MXr. John X. Butler was with them on the brief.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

MfR. JusTicEGRAX delivered the opinion of the court.
The claim of each plaintiff being for less than $5000, the
amount in dispute, as was admitted at the bar, is insufficient of
itself to give this court jurisdiction. Stewart v. Dunham, 115
U. S.61 ; Gib.son, v. Slufeldt, 122 U. S. 27.
The jurisdiction of this case therefore depends upon the
statutes which provide that when, on the trial or hearing of
any civil suit or proceeding before the Circuit Court held by
the Circuit Judge and the District Judge, or by either of them
and a Justice of this court, any question occurs upon which
the opinions of the judges are opposed, the opinion of the
presiding judge shlall prevail and be considered as the opinion
of the court for the time being; "the point upon which they
so disagreed shall, during the same term, be stated under
the direction of the judges, and certified, and such certificate
shall be entered of record;" and the final judgment or decree
"may be ieviewed, and' affirmed or reversed or modified, by
the Supreme Court, on writ of error or appeal." Rev. Stat.

§§ 650, 652, 693.
Under these statutes, and the earlier ones authorizing questions upon which two judges 6f the Circuit Court were divided
in opinion to be certified to this court, it has been established
I)y repeated decisions that each question so certified must be
a distinct point or proposition of law, clearly stated, so that
it can be definitely answered, without regard to other issues
of law or of f et in the case.
The points certified must be questions-of law only, and not
questions of fact, or of mixed law and fact-1"not such as
involve or imply conclusions or judgment by the court upon
the weig t or effect of testimony or facts adduced in the
cause." Dennietoum v. Stewart, 18 How. 565, 568; Wilson v.
,Barnunv,8 How. 258; Silliman v. Iludson River Bridge Co.,
I Black, 582; .Daniels v. Railroad Co., 3 Wall. 250; Brobst
v. B,'robst, 4 Wall. 2; Teeth v. ZNew England -Jvortgage Co.,
106 U. S. 605; Califoria Paving Co. v. .Aolitor, 113 7. S.
609; Wfraterville-v. Van Slyke, 116 U. S. 699; Williamport
Bank v. -nap, 119 U. S.357. The question of fraud or no

JEWELL v. KNIGHT.
Opinion of the Court.

fraud is one necessarily compounded of fact and of law, and
the fact-must be distinctly found before this court can decide
the law upon a certificate of division of opinion. Ogilvie v.
Knoxo Ins. Co., 18 How. 577, 581; United States v." City Bank,
19 How. 385; Havemeyer v. Iowa County, 3 Wall; 294:;
Matson v. Taylor, 21 Wall. 378.
The whole case, even when its decision turns upon matter
of law only, cannot be sent up by certificate of division.
Saunders v. Gould, 4 Pet. 392; United States v. Bailey, 9
let. 267; Harris v. Elliott, 10 Pet. 25; White v. Turk, 12
Pet. 238; United States v. Briggs, 5 How. 208; Sadler v.
.Hobver, 7 How. 646; United States v. .Aorthway, 120 U. S.
327; State Bank v. St. Louis Co., 122 U. S. 21. Nor can a
splitting up of the whole case into the form of several questions enable the court to take jurisdiction. White v. Turk,
above cited; ]Vesmith v. Sheldon, 6 How. 41; -Lutherv. Borden, 7 How. 1, 47; We'ebster v. Cooper, 10 How. 54.
In YWebster v. Cooper, decided at December term, 1850, it
appearing by the record that the whole case had been divided
into points and sent up to this court, and that several of the
latter points could not have arisen until the previous ones had
been first decided, this court declined to take jurisdiction, and
Chief Justice Taney said: "This court has frequently said
that this practice is irregular, and would, if sanctioned, convert this court into one of original jurisdiction in questions of
law, instead of being, as the'Constitution intended it to be, an
.appellate court to revise the decisions of inferior tribunals.
Indeed, it would impose upon it the duty of deciding in the
first instance, not only the questions, of law which properly
belonged to the case, but also questions merely hypothetical
and speculative, which might or might not arise as previous
questions were ruled the one way or the other." 10 How. 55.
As the Chief Justice there observed, in some earlier instances,' questions irregularly certified had been acted upon
and decided. But the later decisions already referred to show
that this court has since been careful not to exceed its lawful
jurisdiction in this class of cases; and that under the existing
statutes, as under those which preceded them, whenever the
VOL. c x-xm-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

jurisdiction of this court depends upon a certificate of division
of opinion, and the questions certified are not such as this
court is authorized to answer, the case must be dismissed.
In the present case, general creditors of Knight seek to set
aside, as fraudulent against them, a warrant of attorney to
confess judgment, executed by Knight to secure the payment
of money lent to him in good faith by his wife and his bankers.
and a subsequent sale of his stock of goods to satisfy those
debts.
The statement (embodied in the certificate and occupying
three closely printed pages in the record) of what the judges
below call "the facts found" is in truth a narrative in detail
of various circumstances as to the debtor's pecuniary condition.
his dealings with the parties to this suit and with other persons, and the extent of the preferred creditors' knowledge of
his condition and dealings. It is not a statement of ultimate
facts, leaving nothing but a conclusion of law to be drawn;
but it is a statement of particular facts, in the nature of matters of evidence, upon which no decision can be made without
inferring a fact which is not found.
The main issue in the case, upon which its decision must
turn, and which the certificate attempts in various forms to
refer to the determination of this court, is whether the sale of
goods was fraudulent as against the plaintiffs. That is not a
pure question of law, but a question either of fact or of mixed
law and fact.
In the absence of any bankrupt or insolvent law, a debtor
may lawfully give a preference to one of his creditors, if he
does not thereby intend to defraud the others; and a sale and
delivery of goods in satisfaction of an honest debt cannot be
avoided by other creditors, unless made and received with intent in fact to defraud them. This is well settled by the decisions of this court, as well as by those of the highest court of
the State of Indiana, where these transactions took place.
Buckingham v. .AXclearn, 13 How. 151, 167; WVarner v. Norton,
20 How. 448; Robinson v. Elliott, 22 Wall. 513, 520; Medsker v. Bonelwake, 108 U. S. 66; Stewart v. Dunham, 115
U. S. 61; Jones, v. Simpson, 116-U. S. 609; Peope's Savings

JEWELL v. KNIGHT.
Opinion of the Court.

Bank v. Bates, 120 U. S. 556; luiskamrp v. 3.fol-Ine Wagon
Co., 121 U. S. 310, 319; Pence v. Croan., 51 Indiana, 336;
Leasure v. Co3urn, 57 Indiafia, 274; ]FlRdis v. Tlwropson, 93
Indiana, 62. The fact that one of the creditors preferred was
the debtor's wife does not affect the question. .Magniacv.
Thompson, 7 Pet. 348; Bean v. Patterson, 122 U. S. 496.
Mfany of the cases cited in the learned arguments at the bar
were of voluntary conveyances, or arose under a bankrupt
act, or presented the question whether there was sufficient
evidence of fraudulent intent to be submitted to a jury, or
were decided by a court authorized to pass upon the facts as
well as the law, and therefore have no direct or important
bearing upon this case.
Not one of the questions certified presents a distinct point
of law; and each of them, either in express terms or by necessary implication, involves in its decision a consideration of all
the circumstances of the case. The first question, whether the
six weeks' delay in taking judgment upon the warrant of attorney made the subsequent sale voidable by the plaintiffs, as
well as the second question, whether evidence of the debtor's
fraudulent intent and of the preferred creditors' knowledge of
that intent Was requisite to render "said sale" void as against
the plaintiffs, could not be determined except upon a view of
all the attendant circumstances. The third question, whether
"such sale," if fraudulent, would be voidable in favor of the
whole or of part only of the plaintiffs' debts, could not arise
until the sale had been decided to be fraudulent. The fourth
and fifth questions frankly submit in'two subdivisions the general question, whether "under the circumstances" the sale
was :fraudulent as against the.plaintiffs.
As was recently said by this court, speaking of questions
certified in similar form, "They are mixed propositions of law
and fact, in regard to which the court cannot know precisely
where the division of opinion arose on a question of law alone;"
and "It is very clear that the whole case has been sent here
for us to decide, with the aid of a few suggestions from the
circuit judges of the difficulties they have found in doing so."
Wate2-vifle v. Van iS7yke, 116 U. S. 699, 704.

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

Upon this record, therefore, this court cannot decide, either
that the decree of the Circuit Court should be affirmed, or that
it should be reversed or modified, but must order the
Appeal to be dismissed.

SMITH v. C2RAFT.
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
Argued November 4, 1887. - Decided December 5,1887.

Whether an agreement to prefer a bona fide creditor is so fraudulent against
other creditors, as to avoid a subsequent preference of the former, involves, a question of fact, depending upon all the circumstances, and cannot be referred to this court by certificate of division of opinion.
A bill of sale of a stock of goods in a shop, by way of preference of a bona
fide creditor, is not rendered conclusively fraudulent, as matter of law,
against other creditors, by containing a stipulation that the purchaser
shall employ the debtor at a reasonable salary to wind up the business.
Jewnell v. Knight, ante, 426, followed.

BILL IN EQUITY by general creditors of Craft against him,
Fletcher and Churchman. After a hearing upon pleadings
and proofs before the Circuit Judge and the District- Judge,
the bill was dismissed, and they signed a certificate of division
of opinion, the formal parts of which were like those of the
certificate in Jewell v. ]night, ante, 426, and the rest of which
was as follows:
"On April 5, 1879, William H. Craft, one of the defendants,
was indebted to Fletcher and Churchman, under the firm name
of S. A. Fletcher & Co., known as Fletcher's Bank, in about
the sum of $33,000. He was also indebted to William Smith
and others, the complainants, and other eastern creditors, in
about the sum of $16,000. Craft had been for many years a
dealer in watches and jewelry in the city of Indianapolis, and
had enjoyed good credit, both at Indianapolis and in the eastern cities, among manufacturers and wholesale dealers. By an

