OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Syllabus.

collector in that matter.to Harshman. llarshman is a creditor
of the county of Knox. He has no more right to interfere
between that county and its collector as to the manner in which
that official shall discharge his duties, except perhaps in case
of fraud or conspiracy, or by way of mandamus, than he would
have as a creditor of any individual to interfere between him
and his debtors. Where such things are permitted at all it is
by way of a garnishee process or attachment, which is regulated
by statute, or by a bill in chancery. The proceeding here has
nothing of that character. The want of privity between
larshman and the obligors in the bond on which they are
sued is established by the decision of this court in. Savings
Bank v. Wizard, 100 U. S. 202.
It does not appear that if all the taxes had been paid in
money which the plaintiff alleges were erroneously paid in
warrants, that when that money was paid into the treasury
the relator would have been entitled to any of it. The discretion of the county court, and indeed its obligation to provide for the current necessities of the county, could not be
interfered with by any one to direct the payment of this
money to that particular debt. We do not see, therefore,
that he was damaged, certainly not damaged in a manner
which the law can recognize, by the collection of these taxes
in warrants instead of money. East St. Louis v. Zebley, 110
U. S. 321; Clay County v. .3fcAleer,115 U. S. 616.
The judgment of the Circuit Court for the Eastern District
of Missouri is
Affirmed.

HOARD v. CHESAPEAKE AND OHIO RAILWAY.
APPEAL FROMI

THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.
Argued October 19, 20, 1887. -Decided November 7,1887.

The relief prayed for in this case was the construction and maintenance of
a piece of railway in specific performance of a contract attached to the
bill as an exhibit; but upon examination it appeared that the contract
did not call for its coustruction and maintenance.

HOARD v. CHESAPEAKE AND OHIO RAILWAY. 223
Opinion of the Court.
If a railway company abandons part of its line and ceases to maintain a
piece of track which it had contracted to maintain, it has the right to do
so, subject to the payment of damages for the violation of the contract;
to be recovered, if necessary, in an action at law.
A railway company organized to receive, hold and operate a railroad sold
under foreclosure of a mortgage, in the absence of a statute or contract.
is not obliged to pay the debts and perform the obligations of the corporation whose property .he purchasers buy.

IN equity. Respondents demurred. The demurrer was
sustained, and the bill dismissed. Complainants appealed.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.Mr..Enock Totten for appellants.
Hr. TYilliam J. Jobertson, for appellee.
AE_.

JUSTICE MILL-Er. delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in chancery brought by Charles B. Hoard
against the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Company in the
District Court of the United States for the District of West
Virginia.
The main object of the bill, so far as it can be ascertained,
is to enforce specifically the contract set out in writing between the complainant and the Chesapeake and Ohio Rail'oad
Company, which is made an exhibit to the bill, and purports
to have' been executed on the 28th of July, 1873. The first
part of the instrument professes to be a deed of conveyance,
whereby, in consideration of the sum of one thousand dollars
in hand paid, the receipt of which is acknowledged, the complainant sold and conveyed to the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad Company several pieces of land in the town of Ceredo,
in the State of West Virginia, which are minutely described,
and which seem to be parts or parcels of land laid out in town
lots by the plaintiff, through which it was expected the road
of the company would be located. This grant is expressed
to be on the condition that in the event the property so conveyed should cease to be used for railroad purposes by the
company, its successors or assigns, the estate thereby granted
shall revert to the grantor, his heirs or assigns.

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

There was also a covenant that the complainant was to
hlave leave and permission to connect a single siding or branch
with the track of the railroad at a point, near the Ceredo
Hotel, owned by him, and that the company would erect
lawful fences and protect said tracks. Thc-e is no contract
or covenant in this agreement, although it is signed by the
railroad company, that it would build its road along and
through the property so conveyed, and certainly no contract
that it would continue it there, because one of the conditions
is that if it should cease to use the road there the title to the
land should revert to the grantor. Yet the main foundation
of the relief sought in this action is based upon the allegation
of a covenant in thi contract, that the railroad company
would build their road over the grounds designated in this
conveyance, and the relief asked is that the .awhlay company
shall now be compelled, although they have for ten or twelv9
years been using the track through other grounds than these,
to abandon that and construct their road through the lots
mentioned in this contract and continue the same.
The pra yer of the bill for relief is "that the Chesapeake
and Ohio Railway Company be made a party defendant to
this bill; that process may issue; that defendant may be compelled to answer the same; that the contract of 28th July,
1873, be specifically enforced; that the defendant may be
compelled to permanently maintain, establish, and run its
road through the village of Ceredo, as specified in the contract, and to erect and maintain a depot and place for the
convenient and regulr receipt and delivery of freight and
passeng'rs in the town of Ceredo, near Ceredo Hotel; that it
may be decreed to pay to the complainant the sum of $1000,
with interest from the date of the contract; that it may le
decreed to do and perform all and everything covenanted to
be done and performed by the railroad company by the
contract aforesaid; that the defendant may be inhibited,
restrained, and enjoined from all further proceedings in t~e
condemnation case pending in this court in the name of TLO
Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Company v. Hoard and als ;
and after the answer shall have come in, and the cause shall

HOARD v. CHESAPEAKE AND OHIO RAILWAY. 225
Opinion of the Court.

have been fully heard, that defendant be perpetually enjoined,
inhibited, and restrained from rhuning its cars, engines, and
trains over the complainant's land on the present location of
their road, and as now constructed."
It will be perceived by this statement of the case that the
defendant in this suit is not the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad Company with whom the plaintiff made his contract,
but the allegation of the bill on this subject is that the
"Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad Company" was sold out under
a m6rtgage foreclosure, and that the purchasers by virtue
of the law of West Virginia became a corporation by the
name of "The Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Company," the
present defendant, "and entitled to all the works, property,
estate, rights, franchises, and privileges theretofore owned
and possessed by the Chesapeake and Ohio RailroadCompany,
and subject to all the restrictions imposed by law upon said
last-named company."
The bill also contains allegations that, while the first company never built its road through any part of the town of
Ceredo, the present company defendant did build its road
through that town, but selected a route somewhat different
from that which embraced the lots conveyed by plaintiff to
the first corporation; that afterwards the second corporation
instituted proceedings in the proper court for the condemnation
of the land over which its line did run, which proceeded to
a report of the commission ordered to examine and assess the
value of the land taken, and the damages; that this assessment
was reported at $1075.00 in favor of the plaintiff in this suit
for land taken by the new company for the new route, and
that this sum was paid into court. It appears that the plaintiff in this suit had notice of these matters, and, as the exhibits
show, consented to the appointment of the assessors, but that
after the report was made he objected to it, and demanded a
jury. He also filed a pleading, in which he set up the contract
already mentioned as a bar to the condemnation or taking of
the property under the authority of the action of the commission. In this condition of affairs the case for condemnation
was removed on the application of the railway company into
VOL. CXXM-15

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

the District Court of the United States, where, after some
additional proceedings, the present bill was filed.
It also appears that the present defendant deposited the sum
awarded to Hoard with the clerk of the state court, under the
jurisdiction of which the condemnation was had, and that this
money has, by order of the United States court, been placed
in the hands of the clerk of that court, and that the defendant
has built and been using its road over the property thus condemned for ten or twelve years. The bill also contains an
allegation that the one thousand dollars recited in the contract
as the consideration for the conveyance was never actually
paid, although the deed acknowledges its receipt.
A demurrer was filed to this bill, which, on hearing, was
sustained, and the bill dismissed, and from this decree of dismissal the present appeal is taken.
It is very clear that the bill presents no feature which justifies or requires the interposition of a court of equity.
First. The contract with the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad
Company contains no such covenant for laying the track of
that company through the lands purchased of plaintiff as his
bill alleges. Therefore, if even that company was defendant
in this suit, there is nothing which the court could specifically
compel it to do found in this contract.
Second. If there were such a contract, both the law and
this contract contemplate the right of the railroad company
to change its route before being built, and to abandon it afterwards, and if the plaintiff is injured by this change, the remedy
is clearly by an action at law for damages.
Third. The present defendant, the railway company, is not
shown to be under any obligation to perform the covenant of
its predecessor, the railroadcompany, which is set up here as
a matter of specific performance. The persons who purchased
the railroad at the mortgage foreclosure sale did not thereby,
under any statute of the State, act of February 1, 1871, Session
Laws, p. 91, or any contract of which we are aware, become
obliged to pay the debts and perform the obligations of the
railroad company. Railroad Co. v. .Miller, 114 U. S. 176.
They bought the property of that company and its franchises;

FINN v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

but if, as such purchasers, they thereby became bound to pay
all the debts and perform all the obligations of the corporation
whose property they bought, it would put an end to purchases of railroads. The plaintiff provided his own remedy for
what has happened by the condition in his conveyance, that the
land should revert to him, his heirs or assigns, in the event of
which he now complains.
As regards the sum to which he would be entitled for the
taking of the lots or parts of them where the railroad now
runs by the defendant company, the law has provided him
with the remedy, which is still in the hands of the court in
the proceedings for condemnation. If the money paid into
court is insufficient, he is probably entitled to a further trial
by jury. If it is a sufficient compensation, the money awaits
him when he is ready to accept it.
The bill makes no case for the interposition of a court of
equity, and the decree of the court dismissing it is therefore
Affinmd.

FINN v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF OLAIMS.
Submitted October 17, 1887. -Decided

October 31,1887.

It is a condition or qualification of the right to a judgment against the
United States in the Court of Claims, that the claimant, when not laboring under one of the disabilities named in the statute, voluntarily put his
claim in suit, or present it at the proper department for settlement,
within six years after suit could be commenceh thereon against the United
States.
The general rule thAt limitation does not operate by its own force as a bar,
but is a defence which must be set up, to be availed of, does not apply
to suits in the Court of Claims against the United States; and it is the
duty of that court to dismiss the petition of its own motion, when it appears that the claim is barred, although the statute may not have been
pleaded.

TFm following is the case, as stated by the court.
The plaintiff seeks judgment in this case against the United

