UNITED STARES v. ALLEN.
Statement of the Case.

We do not think that any of the alleged errors are well
founded.
The decree of the District Court is affirmed.
This decision merely confirms the validity of the grants, but
(toes not entitle the parties to possession. If the government
has sold the lands in whole or in part, or if the surveyor general shall ascertain that they cannot be surveyed and located,
the petitioners, under ยง 6 of the act of 1860, will be entitled to
scrip for other public lands of equal extent, to those so sold,
&c.
Affir med.

UNITED STATES v. ALLEN.
APPEAL FROM TIE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Submitted October 26, 1837. -Decided

November 7, IS87.

The percentage allowed to officers of the N'avy under General Order No. 75
of 'May23, iis;, in lieu of all allowances except for mileage or travelling
expenses, is to be calculated on the amount statedly received by the
officer as statutory pay at the time the order was in force, and is not to be
increaqsed by the additional compensation allowed by the act of March 3.
1883, 22 Stat. 473.
Unfted Stats v. Pdhilbrick, 120 U. S. 52, explained.
ApPEAL from the Court of Claims. The following were the
findings of fact.
This case having been heard by the Court of Claims, the
court, upon the evidence, finds the facts to be as follows:
First. 'Robert W. Allen is an officer of the Navy, to wit, a
paymaster thereof, and he has served as such since the 1st
day of February, 1S08.
Second. In the adjustment of his claim for the benefits of
the act of March 3, 1883, the accounting officers of the Treasury deducted from the settlement made in his favor the sum
of $1112.75, being the amount paid him, under General Order
No. 75, issued by the Secretary of the Navy, May 23, 1866.
Third. Said accounting officers refused in the settlement of

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Counsel for Parties.

said claim to allow claimant the further sum of $206.04,
which said amount would have accrued to him, if he had
been credited, at that time, with his service prior to the date
of his commission as paymaster.
Fourth. The following is General Order No. 75, referred to
in Finding II:
[General Order No. 75.]
"NAvy

DEPARTMENT, 2fay 23,

1866.

"Congress having, in view of the call for increased compensation for officers of the Navy, repealed the law which prohibited
any allowance to them 'for rent of quarters or to pay rent for
furniture, or for lights and fuel, &c.,' the Department, in
order to prevent a recurrence of the irregularities, abuses, and
arbitrary allowances which occasioned the prohibition, deems
it proper to establish a fixed rate of compensation in lieu of
the extra allowances which were prohibited by the law now
repealed. Accordingly, from and after the first day of June
proximo, officers who are not provided with quarters on shore
stations will be allowed a sum equal to 33 per centum of their
pay in lieu of all allowances, except for mileage or travelling
expenses under orders; and those provided with such quarters,
20 per centum of their pay in lieu of said allowances.
"The act of March 3, 1865, having increased the pay of midshipmen and mates, the allowances hereby authorized will not
be extended to them.
"GiDEON

WELLES,

"Secretary of tMe _LVa."
On these facts the court gave judgment against the defendant for $1318.79, from. which judgment this appeal was taken.

3Jfr.

Attorney General, Mr1l. As'istant Attorney General

floward, and .Mr1.. F P. .Dewees for appellant.
Xr.Jokn Paul Jones and 21r. Robert B. -Unes for appellee.

UNITED STATES v. ALLEN.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.

JUSTiCE

IlArLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

The appellee is a paymaster in the Navy, having served in
that capacity since February 1, 1868. In the adjustment of
his claim for the benefits of what is known as the Longevity
Act of March 3, 1883, 22 Stat. 473, the accounting officers of
the Treasury deducted the sum of $1112.75, the amount paid
the claimant under General Order No. 75, issued by the Secretary of the Navy, under date of May 23, 1866, in relation to
allowances "for rent of quarters or to pay rent for furniture, or
for lights and fuel," &c. The object of the order, as appears
upon its face, was to establish a fixed rate of compensation in
lieu of the extra allowances prohibited 1y the act of March 3,
1835, 4 Stat. 753, which last act was repealed by that of April
17, 1866, 14 Stat. 33, 38. That order made an allowance to
officers, not provided with quarters on shore stations, of "a sum
equal to 33* per centum of their pay in lieu of all allowances,
except for mileage and travelling expenses under orders; and
those provided with such quarters, 20 per centum of their pay
in lieu of said allowances." It also stated: "The act of March
), 1865, having increased the pay of midshipmen and mates,
the allowances hereby authorized will not be extended to
them."
The findings of fact further state that "said accounting officers refused, in the settlement of said claim, [under the act of
1883,] to allow claimaht the further sum of $206.04, which
'aid amount would have accrued to him if lie had been credited,
at that time, with his service prior to the date of his conmmission as paymaster." The court below, following the decision
in United Statc.s v. Phdilbick, 120 U. S. 52, which sustained
the validity of the said general order, held the deduction of
$1112.75, to be unauthorized by law ; and, without considering
the merits of the question made as to the item of $206.04, adjudged -upon the ground that, in its opinion, the decision in
Philbrick's case re(laired it to be done-that the alpellee
should also have been allowed the latter sum in the settlement
of his claim under the act of 1883.
It is possible that the findings in Philbrick's case, although

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

very meagTe and obscure, involved the question now presented.
But no such point was suggested by counsel, and it was not
considered by this court. The only question actually disputed
m that case was as to the validity of General Order No. 75;
and this court was led to believe that if that order was sustained as a proper exercise of authority by the Secretary of
Navy, the affirmance of the judgment below would follow as
a matter of course.
We are not at all 'ertain from the pleadings and findings in
the present case what is the precise question raised in respect
to the item of $2063.01. The act of Mlarch 3, 1,S3, provides
that "all officers of the Navy shall be credited with the actual
time they may have served as officers or enlisted men in the regular or volunteer Army or Navy, or both, and shall receive all
the benefits of such actual service, in all respects, in the same
manner as if all said service had been continuous and in the
regular Navy in the lowest grade having graduated pay held
by such officer since last entering the service: P 'ovided, That
nothing in this clause shall be so construed as to authorize any
change in the dates of commission or in the relative rank of
such officers: Provi,(lfut-thei, That nothing herein contained
shall be so construed as to give any additional pay to any such
officer during the time of his service in the volunteer Army or
Navy." 22 Stat. 473, c. 97. The question which counsel for
the appellee contend is presented by the record is, whether
appellee is entitled, in the settlement of his account under the
act of 1883, "to the longevity increment of his 33- per cent
of salary allowed in lieu of fuel, quarters, &c., under Navy
General Order No. 75, of May 23, 186G." It is perfectly clear,
they argue, that if the act of 1883 had been in force in 1866,
the salary of appellee would have been larger than it actually
was by reason of the credit for prior service, which the act of
18S3 now directs to be given to them ; that is, their salaries
being larger, the 33- per cent allowance would have been correspondingly larger, and they should now receive the difference
in that item.
We do not concur in this interpretation of the statute. The
allowances provided for in the General Order of 1866 were

THE MAGGIE J. SMITH.
Syllabus.

made pursuant to rules and regulations established for the
apportionment from time to time of sums appropriated in
agross by Congress for specific objects connected with the
naval seivice. They constituted no part of the pay proper
of officers, and were designed to meet certain expenses they
would necessarily incur in the discharge of their duties. The
Secretary used their regular pay simply as a basis upon which
to calculate the percentage allowed for commutation of quarters, &c. That percentage is to be ascertained by reference
to the amount statedly received by the officer, as statutory
pay, at the time General Order No. 75 was in force, and is not
to be increased by the additional compensation allowed bk the
act of 1883, as the result of giving him the benefits of actual
service, as if it "had been continuous and in the regular Navy
in the lowest grade having graduated pay held by such officer
since last entering the service."
These views lead to a reversal, with directions to enterjudgment infavor of the claimant,only for the sun? of $1112.75.

THE MAGGIE J. SMITH.
WALIER v. DUN.
]'PEALS FROM TIE

CIRuI

COURT OF THE U ITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF

LARYLANSD.

Argued November 10, 11, 187.-Decided November 21, 1887.

The findings of fact in a cause in admiralty under the act of February 16,
1875, 18 Stat. 315, have the same effect as a special verdict in an action
at law.
Rule 24 in ยง 4233 Rev. Stat. applies only when there is some special cause
rendering a departure necessary to avoid immediate danger, such as the
nearness of shallow water, or a concealed rock, the approach of a third
vessel, or something of that kind. [See p. 353 for this -gule.]
Where one ship has, by wrong manoeuvres, placed another ship in a position
of extreme danger, that other ship will not be held to blame, if she has
done something wrong, and has not been manoeuvred with perfect skill
and presence of mind.

