THE MAGGIE J. SMITH.
Syllabus.

made pursuant to rules and regulations established for the
apportionment from time to time of sums appropriated in
agross by Congress for specific objects connected with the
naval seivice. They constituted no part of the pay proper
of officers, and were designed to meet certain expenses they
would necessarily incur in the discharge of their duties. The
Secretary used their regular pay simply as a basis upon which
to calculate the percentage allowed for commutation of quarters, &c. That percentage is to be ascertained by reference
to the amount statedly received by the officer, as statutory
pay, at the time General Order No. 75 was in force, and is not
to be increased by the additional compensation allowed bk the
act of 1883, as the result of giving him the benefits of actual
service, as if it "had been continuous and in the regular Navy
in the lowest grade having graduated pay held by such officer
since last entering the service."
These views lead to a reversal, with directions to enterjudgment infavor of the claimant,only for the sun? of $1112.75.

THE MAGGIE J. SMITH.
WALIER v. DUN.
]'PEALS FROM TIE

CIRuI

COURT OF THE U ITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF

LARYLANSD.

Argued November 10, 11, 187.-Decided November 21, 1887.

The findings of fact in a cause in admiralty under the act of February 16,
1875, 18 Stat. 315, have the same effect as a special verdict in an action
at law.
Rule 24 in § 4233 Rev. Stat. applies only when there is some special cause
rendering a departure necessary to avoid immediate danger, such as the
nearness of shallow water, or a concealed rock, the approach of a third
vessel, or something of that kind. [See p. 353 for this -gule.]
Where one ship has, by wrong manoeuvres, placed another ship in a position
of extreme danger, that other ship will not be held to blame, if she has
done something wrong, and has not been manoeuvred with perfect skill
and presence of mind.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statemcnt of the Case.
The allowance of interest and costs in a cause in admiralty rests in the
discretion of the court below, and its action will not be disturbed on
appeal.

TnlE following is the case as stated by the court.
This case comes before us from the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Maryland. It is a libel
against the vessel Maggie J. Smith, for damages caused by
her collision with the schooner Enoch Robinson, which resulted in sinking the latter, and in the entire loss of both
vessel and cargo. The libellants are the owners of the Enoch
Robinson. The petitioners are the owners of the property on
board, who have intervened for their interest. The claims of
libellants and petitioners exceeded the value of the Maggie J.
Smith and her freight, 'and thereupon the owners of that
vessel instituted proceedings for the benefit of the limited
liability provisions of the Revised Statutes, § 4283-4289,
under which the value of the vessel was appraised at $32,000,
to which amount their liability was accordingly limited. A
stipulation for that amount was thereupon given by sufficient
sureties, with the condition that the claimants would perform
the final order and decree in the case, or that execution might
issue against the goods, lands, and tenements of the stipulators
wherever found.
On the trial before the District Court a decree was entered
for the claimants, and the libel dismissed. On appeal, the
Circuit Court reversed the decree, and adjudged that the
libelants and petitioners were entitled to recover certain
specified sums, which, in the aggregate, exceeded the $32,000;
that the stipulators should pay that amount into the registry
of the court, and that the clerk, after deducting the costs of
the circuit and district courts, should pay the balance to the
libellants and petitioners ,p'o 'ata; that is, in proportion to
their respective claims as allowed. From this decree the
claimants have appealed to this court. Subsequently the
libellants and petitioners applied to the Circuit Court for a
further decree, directing the claimants to pay interest on the
amount of the stipulation from its date, and the costs of the

THE MAGGIE J. SMITH.
Citations for Appellees.

district and circuit courts, but the application was refused.
From this refusal they have appealed to this court.
I

.Xr. John ff. [rThomas and X2b. Robert ff. Smith, for appellants, cited: The Benefactor, 103 U. S. 239; The Palmyra,
12 Wheat. 1; The Steamer Webb, 14 Wall. 406 ; United States
v. Ames, 99 U. S. 35; Ex parte Baltimore & Ohio Railroad
106 U. S. 5; Shields v. Tham as, 17 How. 3; tarket Co. v. Hoffman, 101 U. S. 112; The Connemara, 103 IT. S. 754; The
.famie, 105 U. S. 773; Farmers' Loan & Trust Co. v. Waldemar, 106 U. S. 265, 270; Fhitney v. Cook, 99. U. S. 607;
The S. C. Tryon, 105 U. S. 267; The Lucy, 8 Wall. 307:
United States v. Brig .3falek Adhel, 2 How. 210; 7te
Sa" hire, 18 Wall. 51, 56; Providence & lNew York Steamship Co. v. 11ill Xfg. Co., 109 U. S.578 ; The N5ichols, 7 Wall.
656, 664; The -Dexter, 23 Wall. 69, 75.

211r. William W. fa(farland filed a brief for appellants.
citing: The America, 3 Ben. 421; The Adriatic, 107 U. S.
512; The Elizabeth Jones, 112 U. S. 514; The Fortigern.
Swabey, 518; The Scotland, 118 U. S. 507.
.31r. JolA -Lathropand .Mr. Sebastian Brown, for appellees.
cited: Rich v. -Lambert,12 How. 347; Ex parte Baltimore &
Ohio Railroad, 106 U. S. 5; Farmers' Loan & Trust Co. v.
Waterman, 106 U. S.265; Adans v. Crittenden, 106 U. S.
576; hfawley v. Fairbanks, 108 U. S. 543; Ttiper v. Wise.
110 U. S. 398; Gibson, v. Shufeldt, 122 U. S. 27; The Dexter,
23 Wall. 69; The Annie -Lindsley,104 U. S.185; The .'rortli
Star, 106 U. S. 17; The Brager,14 Law Times (N. S.), 258;
The Fingal, 13 Law Times (N. S.), 611; The Radama, 2 Cliff.
551; The S. B. Wheeler, 4 Cliff. 189; Th7e Agra, 4 Moore,
P. 0. (N. S.) 435; The Spring, L. R. 1 A. & E. 99; The
Aura, Holt's RTle of the Road, 255; The OJxopatra, Swabey,
135; T&,, Beryl, 9'fD. 137; -Ytew York & Liverpool Steamship Co. v. Rumball, 21 How. 372; The 2 ichols, 7 Wall. 656;
United States v. Carey, 110 U. S. 51; The Adriatic, 107 U. S.
512; 31eKinlay v. -Yorrish, 21 How. 343; The Carpofl, 8

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

WTall. 302; Te Fairbanks,9 Wall. 420; -The City of Paris,
9 Wall. 634; Tte S. C. Tryon, 105 U. S. 267; T]ie Bywell
Castle, 4 P. D. 219; Die Eizabeth Jones, 112 U. S. 514; 17te
TFanata, 95 U. S. 600; The 3.anitoba, '122 U. S. 97; The
Favorite, 12 Fed. Rep. 213; Walsh v. 3layer, 111 U. S. 31
The Scotland, 118 U. S. 507, 519.
frM.JUSTICE FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The Circuit Court having found -the facts respecting the collision, our examination will first be directed to a consideration
of their sufficiency to sustain the decree. The findings, under
the act of February 16, 1875, have the same effect as a special
verdict in an action at law. 18 Stat. 315, c. 77; Te Adriatic,
107 U. S. 512. The bills of exception of the claimants in the
record embrace only the refusal of the court below to find certain propositions of law, which can as well be presented to the
court upon the present findings.
The findings of fact, with the facts admitted by the pleadings, disclose the following case: On the evening of February 26, 1883, the Aiaggie J. Smith, a three-masted schooner
steamer, under sail only, ran into and sunk the three-masted
schooner Enoch Robinson, off the coast of New Jersey. The
night was clear and starlight ; the wind was about northwiest,
and blowing a whole-sail breeze, and the sea was smooth.
The Smith was on a voyage from New York to Newport
News, Virginia; her cou'se was southwest; her first mate,
and her engineer, who was acting as second mate, were on
deck; one man was at the wheel, and another was stationed
forward on the lookout; her regulation lights were set; and
she had the wind on her starboard side.
The Enoch Robinson was on a, voyage from Baltimore to
"Providence, Rhode Island, with a cargo of coal. When the
Maggie J. Smith was first seen by those on board the Robinson the latter vessel was on her regular course, heading northeast, and had the wind on her port. Her regulation lights
were set and burning brightly; her master and second mate

THE MAGGIE J. SMITH.
Opinion of the Court.

were. on deck; a competent seaman was on the lookout forward on the top-gallant forecastle; and one was at the wheel.
The court finds that when the vessels were first seen from each
other, they were about two miles apart; that they were approaching each other "end on, or nearly so, and on courses
involving risks of collision;" that the wheel of the Robinson
was put to port almost immediately after the position of the
Smith was discovered, and that the Smith starboarded her
wheel, and that this starboarding was the direct cause of the
collision. The court also finds that when those in charge of
the Robinson perceived that the Smith was falling off and. that
the vessels were approaching in dangerous proximity, they put
the wheel of the Robinson hard-a-port, and let go the spankersheet; and that -a few seconds before the collision the wheel
of the Smith was first put to port, and then hard-a-port,
but the head sheets were not let go,, and before the changes to
port materially affected the course of the Smith the .two vessels came together, the Smith striking the Robinson a square
blow on the port side near the nizzen rigging. And the court
finds as a conclusion of law, that the Smith was in fault in
not porting her wheel when the Robinson was first seen approaching her end on, or nearly end on, and. was in fault foi'
putting her wheel to starboard, and that this was the immediate cause of the collision.
Upon these findings, there could be but one conclusion as to
the liability of the Smith under the sixteenth rule of navigation adopted by Congress, which is as follows: " If two sail
vessels are meeting end on, or nearly end on, so as to involve
risk of collision) the helms of both shall be put to port-so that
each may pass on the port side of the other." Rev. Stat. §
4233, 2d ed, p. S17.
Three cases in this court are cited by the counsel fdr the
libellants in which this rule has been applied, under circumstances not materially different from those in the present case:
The Nichols, 7 WalL 656 ;'The .Dexter, 23 Wall. 69 ; and The
Annie. Lind&ey, 104 U. S. 185. In the case of The .ichols, a
schooner and a bark sailing on Lake Erie in, nearly opposite
directions came into collision by which the schooner was sunk.
VOL. cxxi--23

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

Each vessel was seen from the other, when two or three miles
apart. The schooner had the wind free and on her starboard side; the bark was close hauled, with the wind on her
port side. The vessels approached each other on lines that
diverged not more than half a point, and at a combined speed
of twelve miles an hour. The schooner starboarded her heln;
the bark ported. The owner of the schooner filed a libel
against the bark, but the court held that the schooner had
violated the rule of navigation in not porting also, and therefore the owner had no claim for damages.
In the case of Te .Dexter,two schooners came into collision
on Chesapeake Bay, by which one was totally lost. When
within a half-mile of each other, they were approaching from
opposite directions, end on, or nearly so. One ported and
the other starboarded. It was held that the latter, which was
lost, had violated the rule of navigation, and therefore was in
fault, and that her owner could not maintain a libel for damages; and the libel filed by him was accordingly dismissed.
In the case of The -Annie Lindsley, there was a collision
on Long Island Sound between a brig and a schooner, which
resulted in the sinking of the schooner and the total loss of
the vessel and cargo. The two vessels approached each other
nearly end on, on courses involving risk of collision; the
schooner put her helm to port; the brig put her heln to
starboard, thereby violating the sixteenth rule of navigation.
and a collision followed. It was held that the brig was liable
for the loss.
Some reliance was placed by claimants' counsel on
the
twenty-fouwth rule, which provides that, in construing and
obeying the rules of navigation, "due regard must be had to
all dangers of navigation, and to any special circumstances
which may exist in any particular case, rendering a departure
from them necessary in order to avoid immediate danger."
Important as this qualification of the rules is, it has no application to the case at bar, where the vessels saw each other
about two miles apart. It applies only where there is some
special cause rendering a departure necessary to avoid immediate danger, such as the nearness of shallow water, or a con-

THE MAGGIE J. SMITH.
Opinion of the Court.

cealed rock, the approach of a third vessel, or something of
that kind.
The contention that if the Smith starboarded her helm
when the two vessels, though approaching each other end on,
or nearly so, were about two miles apart, her fault is not such
as to make her responsible for the damages claimed, does not
require consideration, for there is nothing in the record to
show that when the Smith starboarded her helm the vessels
were that distance apart. It'is not stated what the distance
then was, nor is. the speed of the vessels given, from which
such distance could be estimated. The contention assumes,
without any foundation, that the vessels were then about two
miles apart. The libel alleges that the vessels were running
red to red three or four minutes before the Smith fell off her
course and showed both her lights; and the answer states that
the vessels had been in sight of each other some time when
the Smith starboarded her helm, and that the vessels were
then from a quarter to a half mile apart.
Nor is there anything in the position that, where two vessels
are approaching in opposite directions so as to involve risk of
collision, and one of them violates a rule of navigation in
directing its helm, and the other vessel sees it, she will be in
fault if she does not also turn her helm so as to avoid the consequences of such departure from the rule. Whether it would
have been more prudent for the Robinson to take a different
course in consequence of the dangerous position in which she
was placed by the disregard of the statutory rule on the part
of the Smith, must depend upon the angle at which the vessels
were approaching, their distance apart at the time, and their
combined speed - circumstances not disclosed in the record.
The rule is well stated by counsel, that "if one vessel is
brought into immediate jeopardy by the fault of another,
the fact that an order other than that which was given might
have been more fortunate will not prevent the recovery of
full damages;" or, as stated by the Court of Appeal of
England, in the case of Ti Bywell Clatle, 4 P. D. 219, as
quoted in the case of The Elizabeth Jones, 112 U. S. 514, 526,
"Where one ship has, by wrong manceuvres, placed another.

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Counsel for PFrties.

ship in a position of extreme danger, that other ship will not
be held to blame if she has done something wrong, and has
not been manceuvred with perfect skill and presence of mind."
As to the second appeal from the refusal to allow interest
against the claimants upon the amount of the stipulation from
the day it was filed in court, and the costs of the circuit and
district courts, it is sufficient to say that the allowance of such
interest and costs rested in the discretion of the court below,
and its action will not be disturbed on appeal.
Decree affirmed.

OELBERMANN- v. MERRITT.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued November 3, 1887. -Decided

November 21, 1887.

Under § 2930 of the Revised Statutes, the merchant appraiser must be a
person familiar with the character and value of the goods; and under
§ 2901 he must open, examine and appraise the packages designated by
the collector and ordered to be sent to the public stores for examination.
In a suit to recover back duties paid under protest, an importer has a right
to show that those provisions of the statute have not been complied
with.

For that purpose the merchant appraiser is a competent witness.

THIs was an action against the collector of the port of
New York, to recover back duties alleged to have been illegally exacted. Judgment for defendant. Plaintiff sued out
this writ of error. The case is stated in the opinion of the
court.
_1&. D. H. Chkamberlain and .hfr. Eugene IT Lewis for
plaintiffs in error. .rA. IF B. Hornblower was with them
on the brief.
XP. Solicitor General for defendant in error.

