MUGLER v. KANSAS.
Syllabus.

YrUGLER v. KANSAS.
SAME v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
Argued April 11, 1887.-Decided December 5,1887.

KANSAS v. ZIEBOLD.
APPTA

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
THE DISTRICT OF KANTSAS.

STATES FOR

Argued October 11, 1887.-Decided December 5,1887.

State legislation which prohibits the manufacture of spirituous,, malt,*
vinous, fermented, or other intoxicating liquors within the limits of the
State, to be there sold or bartered for general use as a beverage, does
not necessarily infringe any right, privilege or immunity secured by the
Constitution of the United States, or by the Amendments thereto.
The prohlibition by the State of Kansas, in its Constitution and laws, of
the manufacture or sale within the limits of the State of intoxicating
liquors for general use there as a beverage, is fairly adapted to the end
of protecting the community against the evils which result from excessive use of ardent spirits; and is not subject to the objection that, under
the. guise of police regulations, the State is aiming to deprive the citizen
of his constitutional rights.
Lawful state legislation, in the exercise of the police powers bf the State,
to prohibit the manufacture and sale within the State of spirituous, malt,
vinous, fermented, or other intoxicating liquors, to be used as a beverage,
may be enforced against persons who, at the time, happen to own property whose chief value consists in its fitness for such manufacturing
purposes, without compensating them for the diminution in its value
resulting from such prohibitory enactments.
A prohibition upon the use of property for purposes that are declared by
valid legislation to be injurious to the health, morals or safety of the
community, is not an appropriation of property for the public benefit,
in the sense in which a taking of property by the exercise of the State's
power of eminent domain is such a taking or appropriation.
The destruction, in the exercise of the police power of the State of property used, in violation of law, in maintaining a public nuisance, is not a
taking of property for public use, and does not deprive the owner of It
without due process of ,law.
A State has constitutional power to declare that any place kept and main-

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Mugler Cases.
tained for the illegal manufacture and sale of intoxicating liquors shall
be deemed a common nuisance, and be abated; and at the same time to
provide for the indictment and trial of the offender.
There is nothing in the 'provisions of § 13 of the statute of the State of
Kansas of March 7, 1885, anendatory of the act of February 19, 1881, so
far as they apply to the proceedings reviewed in these cases, which is
inconsistent with the constitutional guarantees of liberty and property;
and the equity power conferred by it to abate a public nuisance without
a trial by jury is in harmony with settled principles of equity jurisprudene.
If the provision that in a prosecution by indictment or otherwise the State
need not, in the first instance, prove that the defendant has not the permit
required by the statute has any application to the proceeding in equity
authorized by the statute of Kansas of 1881, as amended in 1885, it does
not deprive him of the presumption that he is innocent of any violation
of law; and does him no injury, as, if he has such permit, he can produce it.
The record does iot present a. case which requires the court to decide
whether the statutes of Kansas forbid the manufacture of intoxicating
liquors tO be exported Or carried to other States; or whether they are
repugnant upon that ground to the. clause of thl Constitution of the
United States giving Congress' power to regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the several States.

THE constitution of the State of Kansas contains the following article, being art. 15 of § 10, which was adopted by the
people November 2,1 ISSO:
"The manufacture and sale of intoxicating liquors shall be
forever prohibited in this State, except for medical, scientific,
and mechanical purposes."
The legislature of Kansas enacted a statute to carry this
into effect, the provisions of which are set forth by the court
in its opinion in this case, to which reference is made. This
statute took effect on the 1st of May, iS1.
The plaintiff in error, Mugler, the proprietor of a brewery
in Saline County, Kansas, was .indicted if the District Court
in that county in November, 1881, for offences against this
statute.
The first indictment against him contained five counts charging that he, on five different specified days in November, 1881,
in the county of Saline "unlawfully did sell, barter, and give
away spirituous, malt, vinous, fermented, and other intoxicating

liquors," he "not having a permit to sell intoxicating liquors,

MUGLER v. KANSAS.
Statement of the Mugler Caies.

as provided by law, contrary to the statutes," &c.; and a
sixth count charging that in Saline County, at a time named
in that month, he "did unlawfully keep and maintain a certain
common nuisance, to wit:" his brewery, then and there "kept
and used for the illgal selling, bartering, and giving away,
and illegal keeping for sale, barter, and use of intoxicating
liquors, in violation of the provisions of an act," &c.
The parties made an agreed statement of facts, which was
all the evidence introduced in the case, and which was as follows:
"Itis hereby stipulated and agreed that the facts in the
above-entitled case are, and that the evidence would prove
them to be, as follows:
."That the defendant., Peter Mugler, has been a resident of
the State of Kansas continually since the year T872; that, being foreign born, he in that year declared his intention to become a citizen of the United States, and always since that time
intending to become such citizen, he-did, in the month of June,
1881, by the judgTnent of the District Court of Wyandotte
County, Kansas, become a full citizen of the United States, and
since that time has been a citizen of the United States and of
the State of Kansas.
"That in the year 1877 said defendant erected and furnished
a brewery on lots Nos. 152 and 151 on Third Street, in the
city of Salina, Saline County, Kansas, for use"in the manufacture of a malt liquor commonly known as beer; that such
building was specially constructed and adapted for th6 manufacture of such malt liquor, at an 'actual cost' and expense to
said defendant of ten thousand dollars, and was used by him
for the purposes for which it was designed and intended after
its completion in 1877 and up to May 1, 1881.
"That of the beer so manufactured and on hand -prior to
February 19, 1881, said defendant made one sale since May 1,
1881, which is the sale charged in the first count of the indictment, said sale being made on the above-described premises;
that the beer so sold was in the original paclages in which it
was placed after its manufacture, and 'was not sold for use nor
used on said premises, and that at the time of such ' sale said
VOL. cxxM-40

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Mugler Cases.

defendant had no permit to sell intoxicating liquors, as'provided by chapter 128 of Laws of 1881."
"Mugler was adjudged to be guilty, and was sentenced to
pay a fine of one hundred dollars and costs, and motions for a
new trial and in arrest of judgment were overruled. This judgment being affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State on
appeal, the cause was brought here by writ of error on his
motion.
The indictment in the second case charged that, on the first
day of November, 1881, in Saline County he "did unlawfully
manufacture, and aid, assist, and abet in the manufacture of
vinous, spirituous, malt, fermented, and other intoxicating
liquors, in violation of the provisions of an act," &c., he then
and there "not having taken out and not having a permit to
manufacture. intoxicating liquors as provided by law, contrary
to the statutes," &c.
The parties made the following agreed statement of facts
which was all the evidence introduced in the case.
"It is hereby stipulated and agreed that the facts in the
above-entitled case are, and that the evidence would prove
them to be, as follows:
"That the defendant, Peter Mugler, has been a resident of
the State of Kansas continually since the year 1872; that, being
foreign born, he in that year declared his intention to become
a citizen of the'United States, and always since that time intending to become such citizen, he did, in the month of June,
1881, by the judgment of the District Court of Wyandotte
County, Kansas, become a full citizen of the United States and
of the State of Kansas.
"That in the year 1877 said defendant erected and furnished
a brewery on lots Nos. 152 and 154 on Third Street, in the
city of Salina, Saline County, Kansas, for use in the manufacture of an intoxicating malt liquor commonly known as
beer.
"That such building was specially constructed and adapted
for the manufacture of such malt liquor, at an .actual cost and
expense to said defendant of ten thousand dollars, and was
used by him for the purposes for which it was designed and

MUGLER v. KANSAS.
Statement of the Mugler Cases.

intended after its completion in 1877 and up to May 1st, f881.
That said brewery was at all times after its completion and on
May 1, 1881, worth the sum of ten thousand dollars for use in
the manufacture of said beer, and is not worth to exceed the.
sUm of twenty-five hundred dollars for any other purpose.
That said defendant, since October 1, 1881, has used said
brewery in the manner and for the purpose for which it -Was
constructed and adapted by the manufacturing therein of such
intoxicating malt liquors, and at the time of such mahufactur.
of said malt liquors said defendant had no permit to manufacture the same for medical, scientific, or mechanical purposes,
as provided by chapter 128 of Laws of 1881."
The defendant was adjudged to be guilty, and was fined one
hundred dollars and costs, and, as in the other case, motionsfor a new trial and in arrest of judgment were overruled, andthe judgment being affirmed by the Supreme Court of the
State of Kansas on appeal, the defendant sued out a writ of
error to review it.
The assignment of errors in the first of these cases was as
follows:
"_First. Said court erred in affirming the judgment of th;
district court of Saline County, Kansas, that the defendant,
Muougler, pay a fine of one hundred dollars for the alleged violation of a statute of said State, prohibiting the sale or baxter
of spirituous or malt liquors, except for medical, scientific, and
mechanical purposes; said statute being in violation of Article
14 of the Constitution of the United States, which provides
that 'no State shall make or enforce any law which shall
abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United
States; nor shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty,
or property, without due process of law; nor deny any person
within its jurisdictioi the equal protection of.the laws.'
"ASecond. Said court erred in affirming the judgment of the
district court of Saline County, Kansas, overruling the motion
of defendant, Tfugler, for a new trial, and in arrest of judg
ment, which motions should have been sustained."
In the second case the assignment was as follows:
" First. Said court erred in affirming the judgment of the-

62S '

OCTOBER TEikM, 1887.
Mr. Vesf's Argument for Mugler.

district court of Saline County, Kansas, that defendant Mugler, pay a fine of one hundred dollars for the alleged violation
of a statute of Kansas, prohibiting the manufacture of spirituous or malt liquors by any person without having a permit
to manufacture such liquors for medical, scientific, and mechanical purposes; said statute being in violation of Article
14 of the Constitution of the United States, which provides
that 'no State shall make or enforce any law which shall
abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United
States; nor shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty
or property without due process of law; nor deny any person
within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.'
"Second. Said court erred in afflrming the'judgment of the
district court of Saline County, Kansas, overruling the motions
of "defendant, Iiugler, for a new trial and in arrest of judgment, which motions should have been sustained, the statute
under which said defendant was convicted being unconstitutional in that it attempts to deprive said defendant pf the
right to manufacture beer even for his own use, or for storage
or transportation out of the State of Kansas, and also deprives
defendant of his right to use his property for the manufacture
of beer; without due process of law."
The causes were argued and submitted together at October
Term, .1886.
.MXr. George G. Yest, for plaintiff in error.
I. The statute of Kansas is in conflict with the 14th Amendment to the Constitution, where it declares that "no State
shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States; nor shall
any State deprive any Fprson of life, -liberty, or property,
without due process of law ; nor deny to any person within its
jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws."
The defendant was indicted for manufacturing beer, without
having a license to manufacture for "medical, scientific, and
mechanical purposes." There was no allegation in the indictment, and no proof or attempt to prove, that the beer was
manufactured for sale or barter.

MUGLER v., KANSAS.
Mr. Vest's Argument for Mugler.

The naked proposition contained in the Kansas constitution
and statute, is, that no citizen shall manufacture even for his

own use, or for exportation, any intoxicating liquors.
The State has unquestionably the power to prohibit the
manufacture, for sale or barter, of intoxicating liquors within
its limits; it has the power' to prohibit the manufacture of
explosive substances, such as dynamite or nitro-glycerine,
which from their nature are dangerous to the lives or property
of others, but no convention or legislature has the right, under
our form of government, to prohibit any citizen from mann'facturing for his own use, or for export, or storage, any article
of food or drink not endangering or affecting the rights of
others.
In the implied compact between the State and citizen, certain rights are reserved by the latter, with which the State
cannot interfere. These rights are guaranteed by the Federal
and State Constitutions in the provisions of those instruments
whichl protect "life, liberty, and property."
The doctrines of the Commune give to the State the right
to control the tastes, appetites, andl habits of the citizen: his
dress, food, drink, domestic relations are controlled and regulated by the State. "The State is everything, the individual
nothing." In order to make him a useful citizen and tax-payer,
the State exercises a surveillance over all. that lie is and has.
On the other hand, our system of governnent, based upon
the individualitv and intelligence of the pcol)le, does not claim
to control the citizen, except as to his conduct to others, leavintr him the sole ju(lge as to all that only affects himself.
The right to manufacture for his own use either food or
drink is certainly an absolute or natui'al' right, reserved to
every citizen - one guarante, by the Fourteenth Amendment, and when, under the laws of Kansas he is punished for
manufacturing beer, it "abridges his privileges as a citizen of
the United States," it I"de i rives him -f liberty 4nd property
without due process of law," and it denies him . the equal protection of the laws."
Civil liberty is defined by Blackstone to be "that of a member of society, and is no other than natural liberl', so far re

OCTOBER TERMI,

1887.

Air. Vest's Argument for MNugler.

strained by human laws (and no further) as is necessary and
expedient for the general advantage of the public."
If the constitution and prohibitory statute of Kansas leave
any residuum of natural liberty remaining anywhere, it will
require microscopical inquiry to find it. If a State convention
or legislature can punish a citizen for manufacturing beer, or
wine, or bread, not to be sold or bartered or even given away,
but for his own use, then instead of civil liberty, we are living under the most unlimited and brutal despotism known in
history.
If a convention or legislature can enter into every man's
house, and prescribe what he shall or shall not manufacture,
ignoring entirely the question of whether he proposes to dispose of the article manufactured to others, or whether its
manufacture is dangerous in the process of manufacturing to
the lives or property of others, then it follows logically that
the same power can prescribe the tastes, habits, and expenditure of every citizen.
In the Sl&aughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 36, NMr. Justice
Miller, in delivering the majority opinion, quotes approvingly
Chancellor Kent's definition of the police power of the States.
See also the opinions of Justices Bradley and Field, in
Butchers' Union Co. v. C'escent City Co., 111 -U. S. 746;
Commonwealth v. Alger, 7 Cush. 53.
Broad and comprehensive as this power is, it cannot extend
to the individual tastes and habits of the citizen, which are
confined entirely to himself and have no effect upon others.
License Cases, 5 Hlov. 504, 583. Whatever may be the injurious results .from the intemperate use of beer, or whatever
the difference of opinion as to its sanitary qualities, it cannot
be contended that there is anything in the process of manufacturing it which endangers the lives or property of others.
Corfield v. CoryeZl, 4 Wash. C. C. 371. The constitution and
statute of Kansas can only be defended on the ground that
the State can take possession of the persons and property of its
citizens absolutely, and so regulate and reform them as to
produce the ideal father, husband, and tax-payer of the
Commune.

MUGLER v. KANSAS.
Mr. Vest's Argument for Mugler.

Without entering into the questions so fully discussed in the
Slaughter-House Cases as to the proper construction of the
first clause of the Fourteenth Article of Amendment, the
plaintiff in error confidently submits his case upon the contention that the prohibition statute of Kansas deprives him of
"liberty and property without due process of law."
If we are right in the assumption that the citizen stands
before the law in a dual character, both as an individual and
a member of society; that in the former status he has certain
natural rights not surrendered to society, but reserved to himself and necessary to his pursuit of happiness, and which the
law cannot take away; that his right to manufacture any
article of food or drink or apparel, provided the process of
manufacturing does not endanger the lives or property of others, is one of these reserved or natural rights, then the statute
of Kansas now in question is not "due process of law." .As to
what is "due process of law" see Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, 356; W'yneamer v. People, 13 N. Y. 378; State v.
Allen, 2 McCord, Law, 55; Sears v. Cottrell, 5 Mich. 251;
Taylor v. Porter,4 Hill, 140; 5. C. 11 Am. Dec. 274; iloke
v. Henderson, 4 Dev. 1; . C. 25 Am. Dec. 677; Janes v.
Reynolds, 2 Texas, 251; .- ennard v. Louisiana, 92 IT. S. 480;
fHurray v. IIoboken Co., 18 How. 272; Mr. Webster's argument in _Dartnouth College v. Woodward, 4 Wheat. 518;
Brown v. .utm2rell, 6 Penn. St. 86; -Norman v. Heist, 5 W.
& S. 171; 5. . 40 Am. Dec. 493.
The general laws governing society guarantee to ithe citizen
his right to manufacture beer, and until he attempts to sell or
barter he cannot be punished. In this case the State of Kansas, by a legislative enactment, deprives the citizen of a right
existing in all free governments, and only denied in unlimited
despotisms. This cannot be "due process of law."
If it be said'that the citizen is indicted,, arrested, and tried
by jury, before conviction, and that this constitutes "due
process of law," our reply is that this is the mere machinery
to enforce an unconstitutional statute. The mandate of the
legislature is imperative, and robs the citizen of a privilege
which, in a free government, cannot be denied. No discretion

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Mr. Vest's Argument for Mugler.

is given the courts, but the constitution of Kansas, and the
statute made to furnish the means for enforcing it are qtbsolute and mandatory. They declare that "1the manufacture of
intoxicating liquors shall be forever prohibited in the State,
except for medical, scientific, and mechanical purposes."
Under the humane and just laws which obtain in all free
governments, every reasonable intendment is made in favor of
the accused, and the burden of proving his guilt rests upon
the State. If all that is charged in the indictment be granted.
what offence has been committed under the laws of any free
people? For all that appears in the case the plaintiff in error
manufactured the beer for his own use, or to 1)o exported, or
for storage. There is no evidence that lie intended to sell or
barter, or give to any citizen of Kansas. AVhat right, then,
or power existed in the authorities of that State to inflict punishment?
There. has never been, and can never be, any question more
important or more vital to the dxistence of civil liberty than
that involved in this case. It is the question of the centuries.
over and about which men have fought and suffered and died.
until out of the dark and dreary struggle the great truth
has been established that "the only freedom which deserves
the name is that of pursuing our own good in our own way.,
so long as we do not attempt to deprive others, or impede
their efforts to 6btain it. Each is the proper guardian of his
own health, whether bodily, mental, or spiritual. Mankind
are greater gainers by suffering each other to live as seems
good to them.elves, than by compelling each to live as seems
good to the rest." John Stuart M[ill "On Liberty," 28, 29.
See Oelder v. Bu'll, 3 Dall. 386; hPetcher v. Peek, 6 Cranch,
87, 135 ; JOai,v. ;D'Hi
Jl,'clc, 7 Johns. 477; . C. 5 Am. Dec.
291 ;- Taqlor v. Porcl-, above cited ; Goc]ien v. Stonington, 4
Conn. 209, 2 ,5; A. ( 10 Am. Dec. 121.
The claim that any legislative body in this country can
absolutely destroy private rights and personal liberty, as in
this case, is 'a monstrous assumption, at war with the established and axiomatic principles of free government.
No protest is made by the plaintiff in error against the

MUGLER v. KANSAS.
Mr. Vcst's Argument for MIugIcr.

exercise of its constitutional discretion by the legislature.
The courts are ilot asked to invade the legitimate province
of the legislative department in its exercise of the police
power. No claim of visionary and speculative natural rights
outside of the written constitution is set up. Our contention
is simply that no legislature has, under bur form of government, the power to prohibit the citizen from manufacturing
beer, unless that manufacture be for sale or barter to others,
and when the citizen is deprived of such right by a mere legislative enactment it is not "due process of law."
IL The prohibition statute of Kansas deprives the plaintiff
in error, directly and absolutely, of his property, without
"due process of law." His brewery was built in 187', for
the purpose of manufacturing beer to be used as a beverage,
a legitimate industry, then undjer the protection of law. By
the statutory enactment of 1881 this property, worth $10,000
for the purpose to which it was adapted, is reduced to $2500
in value, not indirectly, or consequentially, but by direct .prohibition of the real and primary use of the property. This
question has never been directly adjudicated by this court.
In Bartemeyer v. Iowa, IS Wall. 129, an attempt was made
to secure a ruling, but the court declined to consider the question.
May,
Prior to the constitutional amendment, and prior to M
1881, when the prohibition law -took effect, Mugler had the
right to manufacture beer without restriction as to the purpose for which it was to be sold or used. After that date the
manufacture was forbidden, except for specified purposes, and
the manufacturer was required to obtain a permit. It is admitted that he had no such permit, when he made beer after
M[ay 1, 1881. Had the legislature the constitutional power to
take from him without compensation the use of Lisp-roperty,
except for certain limited and specified purposes?
The majority of the Supreme Court of Kansas seem to have
been impressed with the idea that so long as he was permitted
to use his brewery for any purpose, no matter how restricted.
he was not deprived of his property.' This is a singular position. Every fair and candid mind will admit that the ordi:

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Mr. Vest's Argument for AMugler.

nary, usual, and principal use of beer is as a beverage, and
that its use for medical, scientific, or mechanical purposes i3
exceptional and rare. See Tynkarner v. People, above cited.
As well might it be claimed, that a hotel-keeper, who has
constructed a valuable building for the entertainment of the
public, is not deprived of his- property, or its use, when forbidden by the legislature to entertain any guest unless an
invalid. Such cavils are unworthy the importance of the
question. Every intelligent observer knows that the statute
of Kansas was enacted simply and solely to destroy the use of
beer as a beverage, and for its supporters to take refuge behind
the pretext that there was any other purpose, is an unfair and
unworthy subterfuge. There is no pretence or claim that the
legislature has not the right to prohibit the sale of beer, or its
manufacture for sale or barter in the future, but that is very
different from the question here presented, as to the power of
the legislature to destroy the value of Vested rights by legislative enactment without compensation, and without "due
process of law."
1ot satisfied with legislating for the future, the Kansas
legislature. has attempted to destroy property rights already
vested, and created under laws enacted by, the same authority.
"That government can scarcely be deemed to be free where
the rights of property are left wholly dependent upon the will
of a.legislative body without any restraint. The fundamental
maxims of a free government seem to require that the rights
of personal liberty and private property should be held sacred."
Wilkinson v. Leland, 2 Pet. 627. See also Mr. Justice Field's
opinion iii 'unn v. Illinois, 94: U. S.113; Mr. Justice Bradley's concurrinig opinion in Bartemeyer v. Iowa, above cited;
Beer Company v. .1assachusetts, 97 U. S.25.
That private property cannot be taken for public purposes,
without just compensation to the owner, needs no argument
or array of authorities. It is a fundamental maxim of all free
governments, and essentially so of ours, that whenever the'
necessities of the public require that the property of a citizen
shall be taken or destroyed, compensation must be made for
the loss. The very nature of a government based upon the

MUGLER v. KANSAS.
Mr. Vrest's Argument for Mugler.

idea that its citizens are equal participants in all its benefits
and burdens implies this great truth.
The question was effectually disposed of by this court in
Piornpelly v. Green Bay Co., 13 Wall. 166.

The Supreme Court of Kansas, or a majority of the court,
came to the conclusion that the damages to plaintiff in error
were so consequential, and remote that the case caine within
the class of cases described by Justice Strong in T';,ansPoWtatan Co. v. C'icago, 99 U. S. 635.
In the work of Judge Cooley the result of all the authority,
pn'o and con, is stated by him, as follows: "Any proper exercise of the powers of government which does not directly encroach upon the property of an individual, or disturb him in
its possession or enjoyment, will not entitle him to compensation."
There is no disposition to controvert this rule, and it is
evident that it does not affect the case now before the court.
The property of plaintiff was neither taken under a proper
exercise of governmental power, or indirectly. The right of
plaintiff to manufacture beer as a beverage, vested in him by
existing law, is taken away directly and absolutely by'legislative enactment. Whilst he is left in possession of his brewery he is forbidden to use it for the principal, and in fact the
only, purpose for whiell it was erected. By a simple act of
the legislature, without judicial proceedings, he is deprived of
three-fourths the value of his property, and is told by the
State which invited him, with the pretext of equal and just
laws, that the industry in which he has invested the savings
of a life is illegal and immoral. There is no question here of
consequential and remote damages. N~othing in the shape of
legislation can be more direct or even brutal than the law
of Kansas. It gives no time for preparation-no day in
court-but sweeps away his right to manufacture by one
single enactment.
It is deemed unnecessary to discuss further the meaning of
the term "due process of law." That has been done in the
first part. of this argument, and nothing can be added to what
is so forcibly expressed by Judge Brewer. That the questions

OCTOBER TER%1, 1887.
Mr. Vest's Argument for Mugler.

presented are of the gravest nature, and that great difference
of opinion has arisen in regard to them admit of no doubt.
Even so eminent and experienced a jurist as Judge Cooley,
says: "Perhaps there is no instance in which the power of
the legislature to make such regulations as may destroy the
value of property, without compensation to the owner, appears
in a more strikig light than in the case of these statutes.
The trade in alcoholic drinks being lawful, and the capital
employed in it being fully protected by law, the legislature
then steps in and by an enactment based on general principles
of public utility annihilates the traffic, destroys altogether
the employment, and reduces to a nominal value the property
on hand. Even the keeping of that for the purpose of sale
becomes a criminal offence, and without any change whatever
in his own conduct or employment the merchant of yesterday
becomes the criminal of to-day, and the very building in which
he lives and conducts the business, which to that moment was
lawful, becomes the subject of legal proceedings, if the statute
shall so declare, and liable to be proceeded against for a forfeiture. A statute which can do this -must be justified upon
the highest ieasons of public benefit, but whether satisfactory
or not they address themselves exclusively to the legislative
wisdom."
The high character of the writer of the above as a jurist
and connentator forbids the suspicion that lie meant to declare that the legislature could so exercise the police power
as to destroy vested rights of property without compenstion,
and that the citizen is left without redress in the courts. It is
-truethat the legislature mly, in its discretion, enact such laws
as it may deem proper, but its power is limited by constitutional provisions, and there are personal and property rights
beyond and above its control.
It is not claimed that the plaintiff in error, in the language
of the learned judge who delivered the opinion of the Supreme
Court of Kansas, "could go on with or without legislation.
and with or without a license, manufacturing beer forever,"
or that, "lie founds his right to continue to manufacture beer
solely and exclusively upon his supposed vested right to oper-

MUGLER v. KANSAS.
Statement of Ziebold's Case.

ate his brewery in undisturbed tranquillity forever." No such
claim has ever existed, except in the judicial imagination.
But the plaintiff does claim, most earnestly-and confidently,
that his right to operate his brewery as vested in him by the
laws of Kansas, cannot be taken away by the State without
just compensation. For an exhaustive discussion of the question, see f'ynehiamer v. People, above cited; Beebe v. State, 6
Ind. 501; . C. 63 Am. Dec. 391; In Me matter of Jacobs
(Tenement House Cigar C~ae), 98 N. Y. 98.
X3h. B. S. Bradford, .Attorney General of the State of
Kansas, -31r. George 1R. Peck, .Mr. J. B. John.qon, and .Mr.
George J.Barvker for defendant in error, submitted on their
brief.
On the 7Tth March, 1885, the legislature of Kansas passed an
act "amendatory of and supplenental to" the act of 1831.
Among other changes made, § 13 was amended so as to read.
as shown in the footnote.'
1 For convenience this section is reprinted here, although it will be
found ifta, in the opinion of the court.
"Svc. 13. All places where intoxicating liquors are manufactured, sold,
bartered, or given away in violation of any of the provisions of this act,
or where intoxicating liquors are kept for sale, barter, or delivery in'violation of this act, are hereby declared to be connnon nuisances, and upon
the judgment of any court having jurisdiction finding isuch a place to be a
nuisance under this section, the sheriff, his deputy, or under sherl, or any
constable of the proper county, or nmarhal of any city where the salne i
located, siall be directed to shut up and abate such lJace by takin.g possession thereof and destroying all intoxicating liquors found therein, together
with all signs, screens, bars, bottles, glasses, and other property used in
keeping and inaintauning said nuisance, and the owner or keeper thereof
shall; upon conviction, be adjudged guilty of maintaining a comnnon nuisance, and shall be punished by a fine of not less than one hundred do!lars nor more than five hundred dollars, and by imprisonment in tile county
jail not less than thirty days nor more than ninety days. The attorney
general, county attorney, or any citizen of the county where such nulisace
exists, or is kept, or is maintained, may maintain an action in the name of
the State to abate and perpetually enjoin the same. The Injunction shall
be granted at the commencement of the action, and no bond shall he required. Any person violating the terms of any injunction granted in such
proceeding, shall be punished as for contempt, by.a fine of not less than

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Mr. Choate's Argument for Ziebold.

On the 13th August, 1886, there was filed in the office of
the District Court for the County of Atchison, Kansas, an
information against Ziebold and his partner, who were proprietors of a brewery there. The 4nformation prayed that the
brewery might be adjudged to be a common nuisance; that
it be ordered to be shut upi and abated; that the defendants
be enjoined from using or permitting to be used the premises
as a place where intoxicating liquors were sold, bartered, or
given away, or were kept for batter, sale, or gift, otherwise
than by authority of law; and that the defendants might be
enjoined from keeping the brewery open, and from selling,
bartering, or giving away, or keeping for sale, barter, gift, or
use in or about the premises, or manufacturing for barter, sale,
or gift in the State of Kansas, any malt, vinous, spirituous,
fermented, or other intoxicating liquors, and from permitting
such liquors to be sold, &c.,. or kept for sale, &c., or manufactured for sale, &c., in the State of Kansas. On the defendants' motion this case was removed to the Circuit Court of the
United States, where an amended bill in equity was filed,
praying for the relief asked for in the state court. After
joinder of issue and hearing the Circuit Court dismissed the
bill, from which decree the State appealed.
X.. S. B. Btadford,Attorney General of the State of Kansas, -)'. Edwitn A. Austin, Assistant Attorney General of that
State, and M'. J. . TT ts, Assistant Attorney General for
Atchison County, Kansas, for appellant submitted on their
brief. October 25, 1887, 311r. Bragford moved the court to
reopen the cause and reassign it for argument. October 26,
1887, the court denied the motion.
XJfq.. Joseph 17. Choate for appellee. -31r. Robert X. Eaton
and X2r1.John C. Tondinson were with him on his brief.
I. The entire scheme of the thirteenth section which attempts by mere legislative enactment to convert the building
one hundred nor more than five hundred dollars, or by imprisonment in
the county jail not less than thirty days nor more than six months, or by
both such fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of the court."

MUJGLER v. KANSAS.
Mr. Choate's Argument for Ziebold.

and machinery of the appellees into a common nuisance, and
to compass their destruction, and also attempts to execute the
criminal law against the persons of the appellees, by equitable
proceedings instead of a common law trial, is an attempt to
deprive these persons of their property and their liberty without "due process of law," and is therefore absolutely void;
and the Circuit Judge wds right in refusing to exercise the
equity powers vested in the Circuit Court for either of such
purposes.
A careful examination of the thirteenth section, in connection with the rest of the act, discloses that it is a distinct legislative scheme, additional to the ordinary methods of trial,
conviction and punishment, provided by the other sections of
the act, and strikes by novel methods at the property of those
engaged in the manufacture, thus presenting a question which,
sotfar as we can find, has itever been considered by this court.
By this section the legislature, finding a brewery within the
State in actual operation, -which up to the time of the passage
of the act was a lawful and protected industry, - instantly,
without notice, trial or hearing, by the mere exercise of its
arbitrary caprice, declares it to be a common nuisance, and
then prescribes the consequences which are to follow inevitably
by judicial mandate commanded by the statute, and involving
and permitting the exercise of no judicial discretion or judgment. The brewery being found in operation, the court is not
to determine whether it is a common nuisance, but under the
strict behest of the statute is to find it to be one. It is not the
liquor made or the making of it which is thus enacted to be a
common nuisance, but the place itself, including all the property used in keeping and maintaining the common nuisance embracing the building, machinery, instruments and material
without distinction. The judge having thus signed without
inquiry- and it may be against the fact and against his own
judgment-the edict of the legislature, the court is commanded, by its officers, to take possession of the place and
shut it up; and, lest the possession of the court and the closing of the establishment should not be sufficient security
against the continuance of the business, the abatement of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Mr. Choate's Argument for Ziebold.

nuisance is to be completed by the destruction, by the marshal,
of all the property; and he has no discretion but to destroy
the whole. iHe cannot stop short at the liquor, or the glasses,
or the kegs, but must demolish all property used in keeping
and maintaining the nuisance. Nor is all this destruction of
property, by legislative edict, to be made as a forfeiture consequent upon conviction of any offence, but without the inter
vention of any real judicial action, and merely because the
legislature so conmnands.
So wnch of the scheme of the section is directed against the
property of the brewers, but What follows, directed against
their personal liberty, is equally extraordinary.
By the lth, Sth and 9th sections of the act, complete provision is made for the punishment qfter canvietiom of all who
shall either manufacture or sell without a permit, or, having a
permit, shall sell for any but the excepted purposes. But the
thirteenth section provides that in an equitable action, commenced for the abatement of the nuisance, which may be instituted by the Attorney General, county attorney, or any citizen
of the county where the nuisance exists, an injunction shall
issue at the commencement of the action, which of course can
only be an injunction against the crimes of manufacturing and

selling; and as all liquors that are manufactured or sold must
be manufactured or sold in some place, it may apply to any
offenders. And for a violation of the ii~junction, that is, for
the crime of manufacturing or selling, punishment as for contempt, by the process of a court of eq uity, is to follow, which
inay be a .much moe severe penalty than i,? ieselibeZ as the
p~enalty upoi trial and conviction, for keeping or maintainifig

the nuisance, for the latter may be a fine of five hundred dollars and imprisonment in the county jail, not more than ninety
days, while the former may be an equalfne and imprisonment
for sie mnonths.

The act does not make the trial and conviction for keeping
and maintaining the nuisance a condition precedent to its
abatement, or to the suit in equity in which these penalties
may be inflicted; but, as in the case of these appellees, equity
ws invoked at the outset, to register the edict of th.e legislature,

MUGLER v. KANSAS.
Mr. Choate's Argument for Ziebold.

that the place is a common nuisance, to take possession of the
property and destroy it, and to.uni A the criminals by fine
and imprisonment.
As to the proceedings in rem- for the condemnation, forfeiture, and destruction of the property as a punishment for the
crime of using it for the manufacture of beer, if the legislature
really intended to accomplish that purpose, as the present case
assumes, without any conviction first had, or any trial in a
form known to the law, by the intervention of a court of
equity, in a bill filed against the owners, we submit that it is a
clear case of depriving the owners of their property without
due process of law; and this, assuming that it is within the
proper province of the legislature to prohibit within the State
'all traffic in intoxicating liquors, and to declare the manufacture and sale of them to be nuisances.
In connection with § 13, and as regulating the proceedings:.
which are provideid by it,, to culminate, in the confiscation
and destruction of the property, it is to be especially noted%
that § 14, amending original § 21, expressly provides for all
cases that 1"it shall not be necessary in the -first instance for
the State to prove that the party charged did not have a permit to sell intoxicating liquors for the excepted purposes;" i.e.,
that the State shall not- be required to prove the -one fact
which constitutes, the offence intende to be punished by the
act by loss of liberty and of property; -and the presumption
of innocence is thus taken away from the party charged.
In .Fisher v. XeGiqrr, 1,Gray, 1, . C. 61 Am. Dec. 381,
which brought under review the prohibitory act of Massachusetts of 1852, principles are laid down in the unanimous opinion of the Court, delivered by Shaw, 0. J., which are entirely,
applicable to the case at bar.
And there the ofily attempt of the legislature was to' confiscate and destroy the property as a forfeiture and penalty by
way of punishfiient, after trial and conviction of the-owner.
Hfere the proposition is, that, without any proceeding at common /awto charge the owner or keeper with a violation of the
statute, in a proceeding begun by a bill in equity, in: which it
shall not be necessary to allege,' or on the trial in equity to
VOL. CXx--41

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Mr. Choate's Argument for Ziebold.

prove, the one indiyensalefact constituting the offence to be
punished, viz.: "That the party charged did not have the permit to sell intoxicating liquors for.the excepted purposes," the
punishment of forfeiture and destruction of property may be
inflicted by the decree of a court of equity.
Surely this is a novel mode of administering criminallaw.
And that it is criminal law that is here being administered
there can bq no doubt. See also Greene v. Briggs, 1 Curtis,
311, 328; Hffibard v. The People, 4 Iich. 126, 129; .Yeitzell
v. Concordia,. 14 Kansas, 443; Bgyd v. United states, 116
U. S.616.
We submit, therefore, tha t it was not within the power of
the legislation of Kansas, by resorting to the device of enacting a brewery in operation to be: a nuisance, to enable a court
of equity by its decree to convict a citizen of a crime; and to
punish him by the confiscation and destruction of his property.
Rights of property cannot be in this way "arbitrarily or
capriciously destroyed or injured." Yates v. Milwaukee, 10
Wall. 497, 504, 505; Irutton v. Camden, 39 N'. J. Law (10
Vroom), 122, 129, 130 ; Cooley on Const. Lin. (6th ed.), p. 110,
and cases cited. -Lowrey v. Rainwater, 3 Mis~ouri App., 563;
S. C. 70 MIkissouri, 152; leek v. Anderson, 57 Cal. 251.
Such a legislative determination would also be void, because,
where the fact of injury to public health or morals did not
exist, as here, it would be an interference with the absolute
right of every American citizen to adopt and follow such pursuit as he sees fit, provided it be vot, in.fact, "injurious to tte
community." -people v. X,aroe, 99 1N. Y. 377,-386, and cases
cited.
Hlere, the legislative edict is to be carried out, not through
the instrumentality or machinery of a municipal government,
.but through the agency of a court of equity, which is to aqt,
ot as a court of justice, but simply as a legislative agent, to
register the decrees of a legislative body. Such legislation
has been held to be unconstitutional. Quintini v. St. Louis,
I Southern Rep. 625.
As to the proceedings against the person, the provisions of
the thirteenth section are in equally flagrant violation of the

MUGLER v. KANSAS.
Mr. Choate's Argument for Ziebold.

constitutional mandate that no State shall." deprive any person of life, liberty or property without due process of law."
They are simply a method contrived to punish crime, without
a trial, by the intervention of a court of equity.
It is a clear case of fine and imprisonment inflicted by statute for crime committed, but all safeguards known to the
common law for the protection of innocence denied, and the
office of imposing it conferred upon a court of equity, so as to
avoid a trial by jury. As well might the State assume to
treat and punish any other crime in the same fashion; and
what would be thought of an act of the state legislature
authorizing a court of equity to issue an injunction against
theft or burglary and to punish the offence, when committed
as a contempt, by fine and imprisonment, the amount and
term of which was measured out by the statute?
As applicable both to proceedings against the property and
to those against the person, under thi%thirteenth section, it
may be stated as a general proposition, requiring little argument for its support, that the criminal law cannot be administered by or through courts of equity. The jurisdiction of a
court of equity in cases of public nuisance, properly so called,
is exceptional, and extremely limited in its application. Even
in cases where the jurisdiction can be invoked "the question
of nuisance or not must, in cases of doubt, be tried byajury;
and the injunction will be granted or not as that fact is decided." 2 Story's Eq. Jur. § 923, In practice, this jurisdiction is applied almost exclusively to nuisances in the nature of
.puipresturesupon public rights and property, as, for instance,
encroachments upon highways, public fivers, streets, squares,
bridges, docks and other public accommodations, and is exercised chiefly through an information at the suit of the Attorney General. 2 Story's Eq. Jur. §§ 921-924. But this jurisdiction is no.t exercised on any idea that the nuisance in question is a crime, or with a view of preventing or punishing a
criminal act. 1 Bish. Grim. Proc. § 1417. And this is so
for the very reason that, as Lord Eldon said, a court of equity
"has no jurisdictionin matters of crime." .Lazwrencev. Smith,
Jacob, 471, 473. See also Hudson v. Thorne, 7 Paige, 261;
Davis v. American Society, &c., '5.1. Y. 362.

OCTOBER TERM; 1887.
Mr. Choate's Argument for' Ziebold.

With these general principles in mind as constituting "the
settled course of judicialproceedings," -that; is, "due process
of law," Murray v. Hoboken Co., 18 How. 272, 280; Walker
v. Sauvinet, 92 U. S. 90, 93, the Fourteenth Amendment to
the Federal Constitution was adopted, providing that no State
shall "deprive any person of life, liberty or property without
due process' of law." "On principle, therefore," as Bishop
-says, "this provision, secures jur.y trial in the States' in all
cases in which at the time of its adoption. such trial was
deemed a fundamental right." 1 Bish. Crim. Proc. § 891.
Accepting in its narrowest sense this court's definition of
"due process of law" in Walker v. Sauvinet, 92 U. S. above
cited, we find that it was settled in Kansas when these pro,ceedings were commenced that "thi settled course of judicial
proceedings" involved the right to a trial by jury. in every
criminal case. Such a trial was provided for in the constitu,tion of the State, §§ 5 and 10 of the Bill of Rights, and the
'Supreme Court of that State has held that no legislation is
valid which conflicts with those provisions. Atchison Street
]?ailway v. .Aissouri Pacific Railway, 31 Kansas, 660.
It is also firmly established in that State, as 'elsewhere, that
these provisions mean that "A jury trial is preserved in all
cases in which it existedpriorto the adoption of the constitution.
It does not extend the tri.al by jury, it simplypreserves it: It
remains inviolate;, that'is, not disturbed or limited.". In re
Rolf's Petitioner,30 Kansas, 758, 762 ; E-imball v. Connor, 3
Kansas, 414, 432; Ross v. Commissioners, 16 Kansas, 411,
418; and that a prosecution for a matter made .penal by the
laws of the State, a for selling liquor without a license, is
" 'zquestionably a criminal action." NVeitzell v. Concordia, 14
Kansas, 446; In re Bof, above cited.
It would seem that nothing more need be said. If the
legislature "cannot accomplish indirectly what it cannot do
directly, how is it possible for it to deprive a party of his
right to a jury trial simply by avthorizing a court of equity to
take jurisdiction of the particular case? It is submitted, therefore, that there is not the slightest doubt that, by the statute
in question, the legislature of Kansas has violated fundamen-

M1UGLER v. KANSAS.
Mr. Choate's Argument for Ziebold.

tal principles, the "settled course of judicial proceedings," and
the law of the land, and that the statute is therefore unconstitutional and void.
If the propositions already expressed should meet with the
approval of the court, they would necessar4y- be decisive of
the case, and require the airman6e of the decree appealed
from. As a law of criminal procedure applied to the punishment of offenders against its provisions, it would be held to be
a fatal departure froiji "due process of law," and therefore
void.
And, .upon the one point, that the provision of the fourteenth section, which "in all cases" dispenses with proof in
the first instance on the part of the State, that the party
charged did not have a permit, which is "the one indispensable fact " constituting crime under the act, thereby taking
away the presumption of innocence, which is the fundamental
right of every persoi charged with crime, not only is the thirte6nth section unconstitutional and void, but all other parts of
the act are equally so.
SI. Within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment this
act deprived the appellees of their liberty and property with-.
out due process 6f law, and abridged the privileges and immunities of the appellees as citizens of the United States.
We claim also as part of this proposition, and in support of
it, that at the time of the passage of the act, it was one of the
fundamental rights of the appellees as citizens to pursue their
calling of manufacturing beer and to use their brewery for that
purpose, and that the State could only restrain the exercise of
this right by virtue of the police power; that that power could
only be exercized to the,extent reasonable and necessary for
the promotion of the object for which it was exercised, viz.,
the preservation and promotion of the morals and the health
of the people of Kansas; that this act goes far beyond wh~t is
so necessary and reasonable, and that in such excess it invades
the rights of the appellees and deprives them of their property;.
that it destroys their property for the public use other than for
police purposes; that it does this without compensation,;' that
such destruction, not demanded by any legitimate exercise of

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Mr. Choate's Argument for Ziebold.

the police power; is depriving them of their property without
due process of law.
At the outset, it should be borne in mind that," constitutional
provisions for the security of person and property should be
liberally construed," It is the duty of the courts to be watchful of constitutional rights and "against any stealthy encroachments thereon." Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 635. As
to the general intent of the Fourteenth Amendment, "that
there should be no arbitrarydeprivaiion of life or liberty, or
arbitrarysjoliatiom of property," see Barbier v. Connolly, 113
U. S.27, 31; Tic Wro v. fopkins, 118 'U. S. 356.

Assuming the question presented in this case to be wholly
open, we submit with deference that the only principle that
saves from condemnation, as abridging the privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States, or depriving persons
of their property without due process of law, state statutes
which invade the peaceful occupations of citizens and the use
by them of their property for purposes theretofore permitted
and lawful, is the proper exercise of the police power by legitimate and constitutionalmethods; that, so far as such statutes

do go beyond such proper exercise and outside of such methods, at any rate, they do still violate the Fourteenth Amendment, and entitle citizens, whose privileges are thereby abridged,
to protection; that, when citizens are thereby deprived of their
property, they are still deprived of it without due process of
law, even though the power working that deprivation be called
the police power; and that the present statute of Kansas, so
far, at any rate, as it prohibits the use by the appellees of their
brewery for the manufacture of beer, and enacts their building
and machinery to be a public nuisance, and dooms it to destruction by the mere fiat of the legislature, does transcend any
. legitimate exercise of the police power inregulating or prohib-'
iting the trafl c in intoxicating liquors, and is therefore void.
That there is a limit to the exercise of the police power in
invading business and property in any given case, and that
that limit is found in what is necessary and reasonable for'
guarding against the evil which injures or threatens the public
welfare in the given case, and that the legislature
cannot,
-

MIUGLER v. KANSAS.
Mr. dhoate's Argument for Ziebold.

under the guise or pretext of a police regulation, go beyond
that limit, and strike down innocent occupations and invade
private property, the destruction and invasion of which are not
reasonably necessary to accomplish the needed relief or the
needed reform, are propositions sustained by abundant authority; and this, though allowing the legislature to be in each
case the judge of the extent to which the existing evil is to be
regulated or prohibited.
Now, allowing the legislature of Kansas to be the sole judge
of how'far they shall go in reforming the morals and the habits and regulating the appetites and prescribing the food and the
drink of the people of Kansas, they certainly are not to be permitted to regulate the morals and the habits or the food and
drink of the rest of the people of the United States, or the rest
of mankind; and when, under guise of a liquor law for their
own people, they strike down occupations and deprive persons
of property, which have no tendency even to affect the temperance of the inhabitants of Kansas, they do exceed their
recognized powers, and come in conflict with the Fourteenth
Amendment.
Where the occupation or property is in itself immoral or
noxious to health or to safety, we make no question of the
power of the legislature to lay its hand upon them, and even
in a proper case, to put them out of the way, and, where
necessary, to destroy them.
Nor do we need to gainsay any of the familiar propositions
of law cited, and relied upon in the brief on the part of the
State.
But, in the light of the decisions in -Fletcherv. Peck, 6
Cranch, 87, 135; Calder v. Bull, 3 Dall. 386; Iake View v.
Pose Till lemetey Co., 70 Ill. 191.; Railway Co. v. Jacksonville, 67 I1. 37 ; Brewer, J., in Intoxieating Liquor Case8, 25
Kansas, 751, 765; Tenement Hlouse Cigar Case, 98 N. Y. 98;
and People v. Marx,above cited, we respectfully insist that
the prohibitory statute of Kansas, so far as it goes beyond
everything that can fairly tend to protect the morals and the
habits of the people of Kansas, and absolutely prohibits the
appellees from manufacturing beer at their brewery for sale

OCTOfBER 'TERM, '1887.
Mr. Choate's Argument for Ziebold.

in other States and countries, and especially so far as it enacts
their buildings and machinery to be a common nuisance, and
condemns -them to confiscation and destruction, exceeds the
bounds of any proper exercise of the police power, and has
gone beyond the utmost verge of constitutional power, and to
that extent, at least, deprives the appellees of their property
without "due process of law," and abridges their rightful
privileges and immunities as citizens.
It will not be pretended that the mere existence of the
brewery in operation, or the mere existence of beer therein in
the vats or in the original packages, not intended for sale or
consumption in the State, is in. any way detrimental to the
safety, the health, or the morals of the people of Kansas, or
tends in the remotest degree in that direction; or that its
destination to the other markets of the country, or the world,
is 'not entirely consistent with the complete and perfect prevention of its sale and consumption within the State.
Nor is there anything in the conduct of the busihess of
brewing, or the presence of the beer in vats, or in the original
packages in the brewery, not intended for sale or consumption within the State, which is in the least akin to the unwholesome trades and occupations cited by Chancellor Kent
in the passage so often referred to; nor can it be said that
there is anything immoral in the business of brewing, or in its
product. On the -contrary, the legislature of Massachusetts
in June, 1789, passed "An act to encourage the manufacture
and consumption of strong beer, ale, and other malt liquors."
There can be no doubt that the absolute prohibition by
statute of the use of the appellee's brewery, which was owned
by, them before the enactment, does in the sense of the law
actually deprive them of their property as completely as if the
fee in nine-tenths of it were destroyed and blotted out of existence by the same enactment. The proofs show this, and it
is practically conceded by the brief on the part of the State.
It destroys fifty-five thousand dollars out of' their sixty thou-

qand of property.

This can hardly bo an open question in this court sipnce its
decision in the case of Punpelly v. Green Bay Company, 13

MUGLER v. KANSAS.
Mr. Choate's Argument for Ziebold.

Wall. 166, 177, where the question of what amounts to " depriving a person of property", was plumply decided.
In that case, it was held that the floodingof the plaintiff's
lands by a dam erected by the, defendant company, was in
effect and n law, a taking of his property. And though there
may be a great difference between "taking property" without.
compensation, and "depriving a person of his property without due process of law," in many points of view there can be
no doubt that "taking a man's property" is "depriving him
of it," and that the same language must have been'fused by
the court and the same result reached if it had been applying
the constitutional provision against the latter wrong as it did
use in applying lihat provision against the former. See also
Ahunn v. Illinois,94: U. S. 113, 141; Babcock v. Bu-lo, 56
N. Y. 268; Chenango Bridge Co. v. Paige,83 N. Y. 178, 189.
If, then, we have established that the act, so far as it exceeds the legitintte and necessary exercise of the police' power,
by prohibiting the use of the defendants' brewery for the,
manufacture of beer to be sold without the State, is uncofistitutional, because it deprives the appellees of their previously
acquired property without due process of law, it must follow
that the entire prohibitions of the act, as against manufacture,
are invalid because it makes no distinction between the prohibition which it is within the power of the State to impose,
and that which is in excess of its lawful authority. The
courts cannot be left to determine in each case whether the
implicated brewer or brewery is within the intent of the act,
or make guilt or innocence depend upon an intent on which
the act does not itself make it dependent, viz., the intent'to sell
the beer within or without the State.
The case is not one where the part of the statute as to manufacture which is constitutional can operate independently of
that part which is unconstitutional. But a vital part of the
prohibition of the act being unconstitutional, and'the act itself
affording no means of discriminating them from the rest, the
whole must fall together. See Wynehamer v. People, 13 N. Y.
(3 Kern.) 378.
III. But if the power and authority- of the state legislature

OCTOBER TERM, 11881.
Mr. Choate's Argument for ZieboId.

to prohibit the manufacture of beer, whether for sale outside
of the State, or within it, shall be held to be absolute and
-unlimited, then we submit, upon the doctrines maintained by
the Court of Appeals of New York in the case of WVynehamer
v. People, supra, and by the Circuit Judge below, that in
its application to the appellees' brewery, owned, possessed
and used by them when the act took effect, the statute of
Kansas violates the Fourteenth Amendment, because it deprives them of their property "without due process of law."
Assuming the act to be an absolute prohibition of brewing,
and upholding it as such at the moment of its passage, it did
deprive the appellees of their property by destroying the only
use for which it was designed, and of which it was capable,
which was as complote a deprivation as if the fee itself had
been forfeited to the State. By the. immediate operation of
the statute, withQut any act committed by the appellees in
violation of its provisions, the legal existence which the law
and the Constitution designate as property is destroyed, and
the private injury is as completely effected as if the thing itself
were physically taken away.
When this law was passed, the brewery, and its use for the
only purpose of which it was susceptible, was property in the
most absolute and unqualified sense of the term, and as such
as much entitled to the protection of the Constitution as lands,
houses, or chattels of any description. The Constitution makes
no discrimination between different kinds of property, and if
protected by the Constitution from such legislation as we are
now considering, it is protected because it is property innocently acquired under existing laws, and not upon any theory
of its comparative utility.
If the good of the community requires the owner to be
deprived of it for any purpose of public benefit, no matter
what, common justice requires that compensation should be
made for it, and any statute which does directly take it away
from the owner for the uses of the public without compensation, deprives him of it without due process of law.
What Sir William Blackstone wrote a century ago is certainly as applicable now to property which exists under the

:MUGLER v. KANSAS.
Mr. Choate's Argument for Ziebold.

protection of this constitutional provision as it was then to
property in England, which had no such shield against legislative encroachment: "So great 'is the regard of the law for
private property that it will not authorize the least violation of it; no, not tver, for the general good of the whole
cornmunty. In vain may it be urged that the good of the
individual ought to yield to that of the community, for it
would be dangerous to allow any private man or even any
public tribunal to be thejudge of this common good and to
decide whether it be expedient or not. Besides,-the public
good is in nothing more essentially interested than in the pro-,
tection of every individual's private rights as modelled by the
municipal law. The legislature alone can and frequently does
interfere and compel the individual to acquiesce. But how
does it interpose and compel?
Ar'ot by absolutely stripping the
subject of hiqpropertyin an arbitrary manner, but by giving
him a full indermilty and equivalent for the injury thereby
sustained." (1 Bl. Com. 139.)
For all the purposes of the present argument the act should'
be construed as if it read: "To enable the State to administer
and enforce its other laws against the use of intoxicating li-,
quors, every brewery in the State from and after the date when
this act takes effect shall be at-once and forever closed." From
the moment the act took effect the brewery of. the appellees
could not be kept open for a single intant with a view to its
use for any purpose except the practically impossible one of a
brewing for medical, scientific, or mechanical purposes. Je
Minimis non ourat lew. The infinitesimal exception establishes
the sweeping universality of the prohibition of the act.
. The effect of the statute attempted in New York on manufactured liquor existing at the time of its passage, all right of
sale or use of which was taken away, although the title and.
possession was left with and in the owner, was demonstrated
by Judge Comstock in his opinion td: be depriving the' bwner
of his property "without due process of law," and no successful answer has ever been made, nor can any as we believe be
made to this argument. His definition of "due process of
law," as used in the Constitution and as applicable to such
cases, has never been surpassed. 13 N. Y. (3 Kern.) p. 392.

OCTOBER TERM; 1887.
Mr. Vest's Argument for Ziebold.

See -also .Normn v. ieist, 3 W. & S. 171 ; Taylor v. Port,
4 Hill. 140; S. C. 11 Am. Dec. 274; Hoke v. Zen&rqon, 4

Devereaux Law, 1; S.C. 25 Am. Dec. 677.
Tested by these authoritative definitions the statute of Kansas, as it operates upon the appellees' brewery without awaiting any act or violbti6n of law on their part, cannot itself- be
set up as "due process of law." By the mere operation of the
law itself, without anything more, the actual and commercial
value of the property is annihilated. It cannot be used; it is
made unlawful to use it; for a single moment's use attempted
after the act*takes effect all legal protection is withdrawn
from it; it becomes a public nuisance and is doomed to actual
destruction.
According to the doctrine so emphatically laid down by this
entire court in the Pumpelly case, and repeated in substance
by Mr. Justice Field in the case of -Munn v. Illinois- all that
is beneficial in property is the use and enjoyment of it; the
use is the property, and if that. is taken away, it matters not
that the empty husks of title and possession are left with him
who was once the owner.
.-.
George G.Fest for appellees, in addition to the points
made by him in .fugler's Case, contended as follows: If the
constitutional amhendment and statutes of Kansas prohibit the
manufacture of beer, for exportation or storage or personal
use, they violate the Federal Constitution by denying rights
which belong to every citizen as a citizen of the United States.
It will not do for opposing counsel to say that "if the property used by the defendants is of undiminished value if used
for the purpose' of nanufacturing for'bater, sale, and gift in
other parts of the sovereignty of the United States, and if, by
these proceedings, the defendants are not restricted in the use
and enjoyment of these premises for such purposes, then they
are not deprived of their property or of the use of it or of any
value within the guarantee of the Fourteenth Amendment."
The constitutional amendment and statutes of Kansas, which
constitute the basis of this action, and without which it qannot
exist, do not stop at prohibiting the manufacture of beer for

MUGLER v. .KANSAS.
Opinion of the Court,

barter and sale in Kansas, but they absolutely prohibit the
manufacture in the State except for three, specified' objects, .in
which the manufacture for sale and barter in other States is
not included.
These enactments must stand or fall upon their own legal
effect, and not upon the changing and uncertain pleadings of
prosecuting officers.
We concede freely that the Fourteenth Article of the Federal Constitution is intended to protect the rights of individuals
as citizens of the United States, but no State has the power
to deprive any such citizen of thi right to manufacture any
article, unless its manufacture endangrers or injures the lives
or property of others.
The'police power is given the States to protect the health
and morals of its citizens; but no convention or legislature
can, under the guise of exercising this power, take from the
citizen his right to manufacture beer, unless the process of its
manufacture or the existence of the beer afterwards injuriously
affects others. It is not pretended that these effects follow;
and, without them, the power does not exist.
MRu. JusTicE HARL"A

delivered the opinion of the court.

These cases involve an inquiry into the validity of certain
statutes of Kansas relating to the manufacture and sale of
intoxicating liquors.
The first two are indictments, charging Mugler, the plaintiff
in error, in one case, with having sold, and in the other, with
having manufactured, spirituous, vinous, malt, fermented, and
other intoxicating liquors, in Saline County, Kansas, without
having the license or permit required by the statute. The
defendant, having been found guilty, was fined, in each case,
one hundred dollars, and ordered to be committed to the
county jail until the fine was paid. Each judgment was
affirmed by the Supreme Court of Kansas, and thereby, it is
contended, the defendant was denied rights, privileges, and
immunities guaranteed by the Constitution of the United
States.

OCTOBER T 1m, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

The third case- Ka'nsas v.ZeboUd & HageZin -,was commenced by petition filed in one of the courts-of the State.' The
relief sought is: 1. 'That the group of buildings in Atchison
County, Kansas, constituting the brewery of the defendants,
partners as Ziebold & Hagelin, be adjudged a common nuisance, and the sheriff or other proper officer directed to shut up
and abate. the same. 2. That the defendants be enjoined
from using, or permitting to be used, the said premises as a
place where intoxicating liquors may be sold, bartered, or
given away, or kept for barter, sale, or gift, otherwise than by
authority of law.
The defendants answered, denying the allegations of the
petition, and averring: _First. That said buildings were erected
by them prior to the adoption, by the people of Kansas, of the
constitutional amendment prohibiting the manufacture and
sale of intoxicating liquors for other than medicinal, scientific,
and mechanical purposes, and before the passage of the pr'ohibitory liquor statute of that State. Second. That they were
erected for the purpose of manufacturing beer, and cannot be
put to any other use; and, if not so used, they will be of little
value. Tided. That the statute under which said suit is brought
is void under the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution
of the United. States.
. Upon the petition and bond of the defendants the cause was
removed into the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kansas upon the ground that the suit was one arising under the Constitution of the United States. A motion to
remand it to the state court was denied. The pleadings were
recast so as to conform to the equity practice in the courts of
the United States; and, the cause having-been heard upon bill
and answer, the suit was dismissed.- From that decree the
State prosecutes an appeal.
By a statute of Kansas, approved March 3, 1868, it was
made a misdemeanor, punishable by fine and imprisonment,
for any one, directly or indirectly, to sell spirituous, vinous,
fermented, or other intoxicating liquors, without having a
dram-shop, tavern, or grocery license.. It was also enacted,
among other things, that every place where intoxicating liquors

MUGLER v. KANSAS.Opinion of the Court.

were sold in violation of the statute should be taken, held,
and deemed to be a common nuisance; and it was required
that all rooms, taverns, eating-houses, bazaar's, restaurants,,
groceries, coffee-houses, cellars, or other places of public resort
where intoxicating liquors were sold, inviolation of law, should
be abated as public nuisances. Gen. Stat. Kansas, 1868, c. 35,

§ 6.
But, in 1880, the people of Kansas adopted a more stringent
policy. On the 2d of November of that year, they ratified an
amendment to the state constitution, which declared that the
manufacture and sale of intoxicating liquors should be forever
prohibited in that State, except for medical, scientific, and
mechanical purposes.
In order to give effect to that amendment, the legislature
repealed the act of 1868, and passed an act, approved February
19, 1881, to take effect :May 1, 1881, entitled "An act to prohibit the manufacture and sale of intoxicating liquors, except
for medical, scientific, and mechanical purposes, -,and to regulate the manufacture and sale thereof for such excepted purposes." Its first, section provides "that any person or persons
-who shall manufacture, sell, or barter any spirituous, malt,
vinous, fermented, or other intoxicating liquors shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor: P'ovided,hlowever, That such liquors may
be sold for medical, scientific, and mechanical purposes, as provided in this act." The second section makes it unlawful for
any person to sell or barter for either of such excqpted purposes any malt, vinous, spirituous, fermented, or other in'toxicating liquors without having procured a druggist's permt
therefor, and prescribes the conditions upon which such permit
may be granted. The third section relates to the giving by
physicians of prescriptions for intoxicating liquors to be used
by their patients, and the fourth, to the sale of such liquors bydruggists. The fifth section forbids any person from manufacturing or assisting in the manufacture-of intoxicating liquors
in the StAte, except for medical, scientific, and mechanical purposes, and makes provision for the granting of licenses to
engage in the business of manufacturing liquors for such
excepted purposes. The seventh section declares it to be a'

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

misdemeanor for any person, not having the recluired permit.
to sell or barter, directly or indirectly, spirituous, malt, vinous,
'fermented, or other intoxicating liquors; the punishment prescribed being, for the first. offence, a fine not less than one
hundred nor more than five hundred dollars, or imprisonment
-in the county jail not less than twenty nor more than ninety
day's; for the second offence, a fine of not less than two hundred nor moie than five hundred dollars, or imprisonment in
the county jail not less than sixty days nor more than six
-months; and for every subsequent offence, a fine not less than,
five hundred nor more than one thousaild dollars, or imprisonment in the county jail not less -than three months nor more
than one year, or both such fine and imprisonment, in the discration of the court. The eighth section provides for similar
fines -and punishments against persons who manufacture, or
aid, assist, or abet the manufacture of any intoxicating liquors
without having the required permit. The thirteenth section
declares, among other things, all places where intoxicating
liquors are manufactured, sold, bartered, or given away, or are
kept for sale, barer,:or use, in violation of the act, to be common nuisances; and provides that upon the judgment of any
court having jurisdiction finding such place to be a nuisance,
the proper officer shall be directed to shut up and abate the
same.
Under that, statute, the prosecutions against Mugler were
instituted. It contains other sections in addition to those
above referred to; but as they embody merely the details
of the general scheme adopted by the State for the prohibition of the manufacture and sale of intoxicating liquors, except
for the purposes specified, it is unnecessary to set them out.
On the 'th of March, 1885, the legislature passed an act
amendatory and supplementary to that of 1881. The thirteenth section of the former act, being the one upon which the
suit against Ziebold & Hagelin ig founded, will be:given in
full in.
a subsequent part of this opinion.
The 'facts necessary to a clear understanding of the questions, common to these cases, are the following: lvlugler and
Ziebold & Hagein were engaged in manufacturing beer at

MUGLER v. KANSAS.
Opinion of the Court.

their respective establishments, (constructed specially for that
purpose,) for several years prior to the adoption of the constitutional amendment of 1880. They continued in such business
in defiance of the statute of 1881, and without having the
required permit. Nor did Mugler have a license or permit to
sell beer. The single sale of which he was found guilty
occurred in the State, and. after May 1, 1881, that is, after the
act of February 19, 1881, took effect, and was of beer manufactured before-its passage.
The buildings and machinery constituting these breweries
are of little value if not used for the purpose of manufacturing
beer; that is to say, if the statutes are enforced against the
defendants the value of their property will be very materially
diminished.
The general question in each case is, whether the foregoing
statutes of Kansas are in conflict with that clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, which provides that "no State shall make
or enforce any, law which shall abridge the privileges or
immunities of citizens of the United States; nor shall any
State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without
due process of law."That legislation by a State prohibiting the manufacture
within her limits of intoxicating liquors, -to be there sold or
bartered for general use as a beverage, does not necessarily
infringe any right, privilege, or immunity secured by the Constitution of the United States, is made clear by the decisions
of this court, rendered before and since the adoption of the
Fourteenth Amendment; to some of which, in view of questions to be presently considered, it will be well to refer.
In the Licene Caes, 5 How. 504, the question was, whether
certain statutes of Massachusetts,-IRhode Island, and New
Hampshire, relating to the sale of spirituous liquors were
repugnant, to the Constitution of. the United States. In determining that question, it became necessary to inquire whether
there was any conflict between the exercise by Congress of its
power to regulate commerce with foreign countries, or'among
the several States, and the exercise by a State of what are
called police powers. Although the members of the court did
VOL. CXXi-42

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

not fully agree as to the grounds upon which the decision
should be placed, they were unanimous in holding that the
statutes then under examination were not inconsistent with
the Constitution of the United States, or with any act of
Congress. Chief Justice Taney said: "If any State deems
the retail and internal traffic in ardent spirits injurious to its
citizens, and calculated to produce idleness, vice, or debauchery, I see nothing in the Constitution of the United States to
prevent it from regulating and restraining the traffic, or from'
prohibiting it altbgether, if \it thinks proper." (p. 577.) Mr.
Justice McLean, among other things, said: "A State regulates its domestic commerce, contracts, the transmission of
estates, real and personal, and acts upon all internal matters
which relate to its moral and political welfare. Over these
subjects the Federal government has no power.

.

.

.

The

acknowledged police power of a State extends often to the
destruction of property. A nuisance may be abated. Everything prejudicial to the health or morals of a city may be removed." (pp. 588, 589.) Mr. Justice Woodbury observed:
"How can they [the States] be sovereign within their respective spheres, without power to regulate all their internal commerce, as well as police, and direct how, when, and where it
shall be conducted in articles intimately connected either with
public morals, or public safety, or the public prosperity'?"
(p. 628.) Mr. Justice Grier, in still more emphatic language,
said: "The true question presented by these cases, and one
which I am not disposed to evade, is whether the States have
a right to prohibit the, sale and consumption of an article of
commerce which they believe to be pernicious in its effects,
and the cause of disease, pauperism, and crime.

.

.

.

With-

out attempting to define what are the peculiar subjects or
limits of this power, it may safely be affirmed, that every law
for the restraint and punishment of crime, for the preservation
of the public peace, health, and morals must come within this
category.

.

.

It is not necessary, for the sake of justifying

the state legislation now under consideration, to array the
appalling statistics of misery, pauperism, and crime, which
have their origin in the use or abuse of ardent spirits. The

MUGLER v. KANSAS.
Opinion of the Court.

police power, which is exclusively in the States, is alone competent to the correction of these great evils, and all measures
of restraint or prohibition necessary to effect the purpose are
within the'scope of that authority." (pp. 631, 632.)
. In Bartemeyer v. Iowa, 18 Wall. 129, it was said that prior
to the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment, state enactments, regulating or prohibiting the traffic in intoxicating
liquors, raised no question under the Constitution of the
United States; and that such legislation was left to the discretion of the respective States, subject to no other limitations
than those imposed by their own constitutions, or by the general principles supposed to limit all legislative power. Referring to the contention that the right to sell intoxicating liquors
was secured by the Fourteenth Amendment, the court said
that "so far as such a right exists, it is not one of the rights
growing out bf citizenship of the United States." In Bear
Co. v. -Yassachusetts,97 U. S. 25, 33, it was said, that, "as a
measure of police regulation, looking to the preservation' of
public morals, a state law prohibiting the manufacture and
sale of intoxicating liquors is not repugnant to any clause of
the Constitution of the United States." Finally, in Foster v.
ansas, 112 U. S. 201, 206, the court said that the question as
to the constitutional power of a State to prohibit the manufacture and sale 6f intoxicating liquors was no longer an open
one in this court. These cases rest upon the acknowledged
right of the States of -the Union to control their purely internal affairs, and, in so doing, to protect the health, morals, and
safety of their people by regulations that do not interfere with
the execution of the powers of the general government, or
violate~rights secured by the Constitution of the United
States. The power to establish such regulations, as was said
in Gibbons v. -Ogde, 9 Wheat. 1, 203, reaches everything
within the territory of a State not surrendered to the national
government.
It is, however, contended, that, although the State may prohibit the manufacture of intoxicating liquors for sale or barter
within her limits, for general use as a beverage, "no convention or legislature has the right, under our form of govern-

OCTOBER -TERM, i887.
Opinion of the Court.

ment, to prohibit any citizen from manufacturing for his own
use, or for export, or storage, any article of food or drink not
endangering or affecting the rights of others." The argument
made in support of the first branch of this proposition, briefly
stated, is, that in the implied compact between the State and
the citizen certain rights are reserved by the latter, which are
guaranteed by the constitutional provision protecting persons
against being deprived of life, liberty, or property, without
due process of law, and with which the State cannot interfere; that among those rights is that of manufacturing for
one's use either food or drink; and that while, according to
the doctrines of the Commune, the State may control the
tastes, appetites, habits, dress, food, and drink of the people,
our system of government, based upon the individuality and
intelligence of the citizen, does not claim to control him, except as to his conduct to others, leaving him the sole judge as
to all that only affects himself.
It will be observed that the proposition, and the argument
made in support of it, equally concede that the right to manufacture drink for one's personal uie is subject to the condition
that such manufacture does not endange- or affect the rights
of others. If such manufacture does prejudicially affect the
rights and interests of the comminity, it follows, from the
very premises stated, that society has the power to protect
itself, by legislation, against the injurious consequences of that
business. As was said in .Mun v. 1llnoi&, 94 IT. S. 113, 124,
while power does nbt exist with the whole people to control
rights that are purely and exclusively private, government
may require "each citizen to so conduct himself, and so use
his own property, as not unnecessarily to injure another."
Put by whom, or by what authority, is it to be'determined
whether the manufacture of particular articles of drink, either
for general use or for the personal use of the maker, will inju-i
riously affect the public? Power to determine such questions,
so as to bind all, must exist somewhere; else society will be at
the mercy of the few, who, regarding only their own appetites
or passions, may be willing to imperil the peace and security
of the many, provided only they are permitted to do as they

RtUGLER v. KANSAS.
Opinion of the Court.

please. Under our system that power Js lodged with the legislative branch of the government. It belongs to that department to exert what are known as the police powers of the
State, and to determine, primarily, what measures are appropriate or needful for the protection of the public morals, the
public health, or the public safety.
It does not at all follow that every statute enacted ostensibly for the promotion of these ends, is to be accepted as a
legitimate exertion of the police powers of the State.. There
are, of .necessiiy, limits beyond which legislation cannot rightfully go. While every possible presumption is to be indulged
in favor of the validity of a statute, 8Z'ing PFiel Cases, 94)
IT. S. 700, 718,, the courts must obey the Constitution rather
than the law-making department of government, and must,
upon their own responsibility, determihe whether, in any particular case, these limits have been passed. "To what, purpose," it was said in ilfarlbaryv. Afadison, 1 Cranch, 137, 176,
"are powers limited, and to what purpose is that limitation
committed to writing, if these limits may, at any time, be
passed by those intended to be restrained? The distinction
between a government with limited and unlimited powers is
abolished, if those limits do not confine the persons on whom
they are imposed, and if acts prohibited and acts allowed are
The courts are not bound by mere
of equal obligation,"
forms, ,.or are they to be misled by mere pretences. They
look
are at liberty -indeed, are under a solemn duty -to
at the substance of things, whenever they enter upon the
inquiry whether the legislature has transcended the limits of
its authority. If, therefore, a statute purporting to have been
enacted to protect the public health, the public morals, or the
public safety, has no real or substantial relation to those
objects, or is a palpable invasion of rights secured by the
fundamental law, it is the duty of the courts to so adjudge,
and thereby give effect to the Constitution.
Keeping in view these principles, as governing the relations
of the judicial and legislative departments of government
with each other, it is difficult to perceive any ground for the
judiciary to declare that the prohibition by Kansas of the

OCTOBER TERMI,

1887.

Opinion of the Court. -

manufacture or sale, within her limits, of intoxicating liquors
for general use there as a beverage, is not fairly adapted to
the end of protecting the community against the evils which
confessedly result from the excessive use of ardent spirits.
There is no justification for holding that the State, under the
guise merely of police regulations, is here aiming to deprive
the citizen of his constitutional rights; for we cannot shut
out of view the fact, within the knowledge of all, that the
public health, the public morals, and the public safety, may be
endangered by the general use of intoxicating drinks; nor
the fact, established by statistics accessible to every one, that
the idleness, disorder, pauperism, and crime existing in the
country axe, in some degree at least, traceable to this evil.
If, therefore, a state deems the absolute prohibition of the
manufacture and sale, within. her limits, of intoxicating
liquors for other than medical, scientific, and manufacturing purposes, to be necessary to the peace and security of
society, the courts cannot, without usurping legislative functions, override the will of the people as thus expressed by
their chosen representatives. They have nothing to do with
the mere policy of legislation. Indeed, it is a fundamental
principle in our institutions, indispensable to the preservation
of public liberty, that one of the separate departments of
government shall not usurp powers committed by the Constitution to another department. And so, if, in the judgment of
the legislature, the manufacture of intoxicating liquors for
the maker's own uge, as a beverage, would tend to cripple, if
it did not defeat, the effort to guard the community against
the evils attending the excessive -use of such liquors, it is not
for the courts, upon their views as to what is best and safest
for the community, to disregard the legislative determination
of that question. So far Irom such a regulation having no
relation to the general end sought to be accomplished, the
entire scheme of prohibition, as embodied in the constitution
and laws of Kansas, might fail, if the right of each citizen to
manufacture intoxicating liquors for his own use as a beverage
were recognized. Such a right does not inhere in citizenship.
Nor can it be said that government interferes with or impairs

MUGLER v. IANSAS.
Opinion of the Court.

any one's constitutional rights of liberty or of property,
when it determines that the manufacture and sale of intoxicating drinks, for general or individual use, as a beverage, are,
or may become, hurtful to society, and constitute, therefore, a
business in which-no one may lawfully. enfgage. Those rights
are best secured, in our government, by the observance, upon
the part of all, of such regulations as are established by competent authority to promote the common good. No one may
rightfully do that which the law-making power, upon reasonable grounds, declares to be prejudicial to the general welfare.
This conclusion is unavoidable, unless the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution takes from the States of the
Union those powers of-police that were reserved at the time the
original Constitution was adopted. But this court has declared,
upon full consideration, in Barbierv. Connolly, 113 1U. S. 27,
:31, -that the Fourteenth Amendment had no such effect.
After -observing, among other things, that that Amendment
forbade the arbitrary deprivation of life or liberty, and the
arbitrary spoliation of property, and secured equal protection
to all under like -circumstances, in respect as well to their personal and civil rights as to their acquisition and enjoyment of
property, the court said: "But neither the Amendmentbroad and comprehensive as it is-nor any other amendment,
was designed to interfere with the power of the State, sometimes termed its police power, to prescribe regulations to promote the health, peace, morals, education, and gdod order of
the people, and to legislate so as to increase the industries of
the State, develop its resources, and add to its wealth and
prosperity."
Undoubtedly the State, when providing, by legislation, for
the protection of the public health, the public morals, or the
public safety, is subject to the paramount authority of the
Constitution of the United States, and may not violate rights
secured or guaranteed by -that instrument, or interfere with
the execution of the powers confided to the general government. Henderso v. -Mayor of Zew York, 92 U. S. 259;
-RilroadCo. v. Husen, 95 U. S.465; Naw Orleans Ga C.
v. Louisianaz Light Co., 115 U. S.650; Walling v. -Michigan,

OCTOBER TER.M, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

116 U. S. 446; Yick To v. Iopkins, 118 U. S.356; .Xarganes

Steamship Co. v. ZouisianaBoardof Hfealth, 118 U. S. 455.
Upon this ground -if
we do not misapprehend the position
of defendants - it is contended that, as the primary and
principal use of beer is as a beverage; as their respective
breweries were, erected when it was lawful to engage in the
manufacture of beer for every purpose; as such establishments
will become-of no value as property, or, at least, will be materially diminished in value, if not employed in the manufacture
of beer for every purpose; -the prohibition upon their being so
employed is, in effect, a taring of property for public use without compensation, and depriving the citizen of his property
without due process of law. In other words, although the
State, in the exercise of her police powers, may lawfully prohibit the manufacture and sale, within her limits, of intoxicating liquors to -be used as a beverage, legislation having that
object in view' cannot be enforced against those who, at the
time, happen to own property, the chief value of which consists in its fitness for such manufacturing purposes, unless coipensation is first made for the diminution in the value of their
property, resulting from such prohibitory enactments.
This interpretation of the Four'teenth Amendment is inadmissible. It cannot be supposed that. the States intended, by
adopting that Amendment, to impose restraints upon the exercise of their powers for the protection of the safety, health,
or morals of the community. In respect to contracts, the
obligations of which are protected against hostile state legislation, this court in Butchers' Union. Co. v. Crescent City Co.,
111 U. S. '46, 51, said that the State could not, by any contract, limit the exercise of her power to the prejudice of the
public health and the public morals. So, in Stone v.,Xississippi, 101 IT. S. 814, 816, where the Constitution was invoked
against the repeal by the State of a charter, granted to a private corporation, to conduct a lottery, and for which that corporation paid to the State a valuable consideration, in money,
the cpurt said: "No legislature can bargain away the public
health or the public morals. The people themselves cannot do
it, much less their servants. . . . Government is organized

MUGLER v. IANSAS.
Opinion of the Court.

with a view to their preservation, and cannot divest itself of
the power to provide for them." Again, in -NVew Orleans Gas
'Co. v. Iouisiana Lgl Co., 115 U. S. 650, 672: "The constitutional prohibition upon state laws impairing the obligation
mr contracts does not restrict the power of the State to protect
the public health, the public morals, or the public safety, as
the one or the other may be involved in the execution of such
contracts. Rights and privileges arising from contracts with
a State axe subject to regulations for the protection of the
public health, the public morals, and the public safety, in the
same sense, and to the same extent, as are all contracts-and all
property, whether owned by natural persons or corporations."
The principle, that no person shall be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law, was embodied,
in substance, in the constitutions of nearly all, if not all, of the
States at the time of the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment; and it has never been regarded as incompatible with
the principle, equally vital, because essential to the peace and
safety of society, that all property in this country is held
under the implied obligation that the owner's use of it shall
not be injurious to. the community. Beer Co. v. Zkassaohusett,
97 U. S. 25, 32; Commonwealth v. Alger, 7 Cush. 53. An
illustration of this doctrine is afforded by Pattersonv. KenPclk., 97 U. S. 501. The question there was as to the validity
of a statute of Kentucky, enacted in 1874, imposing a penalty
upon any one selling or offering for sale oils and fluids, the
product of coal, petroleum, or other bituminous substances,
which would burn or ignite at a temperature below 130'
Fahrenheit. Patterson having sold, within that commonwealth, a certain oil, for which letters-patent were issued in
1867, but which did not come up to the standard required by
said statute, and having been indicted therefor, disputed the
State's authority to prevent or obstruct the exercise of that
right. This court upheld the legislation of Kentucky, upon
the groind, that while the State could not impair the exclusive right of the-patentee, or of his assignee in the discovery
described in the letters-patent, the tangible property, the fruit
of the discovery, was not beyond control in the exercise of her

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

police powers. It was said: "By the settled doctrines of this
court the police power extends, at least, to the protection of
the lives, the heqlth, and the property of the community
against the injurious exercise by any citizen of his own rights.
State legislation, strictly and legitimately for police purposes,
(toes not, in the sense of the Constitution, necessarily intrench
upon any authority which has been confided, expressly or
by implication, to the national government. The Kentucky
statute under examination manifestly belongs to that class of
legislation. It is, in the best sense, a mere police regulation,
deemed essential to the protection of the lives and property
of citizens." p. 504. Referring to the numerous decisions of
this court .guarding the power of Congress to regulate commerce against encroachment, under the guise of state regulations, established for the purpose and with the effect of
destroying or impairing rights secured by the Constitution, it
was further said: "It has, nevertheless, with marked distinctness and uniformity, recognized the necessity, groling out of
the fundamental conditions of civil society, of upholding state
police regulations which were enacted in good faith, and had'
appropriate and direct connection with that protection to life,
health, and property which each State owes to her citizens."
See also United States v. Dewitt, 9 Wall. 41; L-icense Tax
Cases, 5 Wall. 462; Pervear v. Commonwealtk, 5 Wall. 475.
Another decision, very much in point upon this branch of
the case, is Fertilizing Co. v. Hfyde Park, 97 U. S. 659, 667,
also decided after thie adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The court there sustained the validity of an ordinance of the
village of Hyde Park, in Cook County, Illinois, passed under
legislative authority, forbidding any person from transporting
through that village offal or other offensive or unwholesome
matter, or from maintaining or carrying on an offensive or
unwholesome business or establishment within its limits. The
Fertilizing Company had, at large expense, and under authority exTressly conferred by its charter, located its works at
a particular point in the county-. Besides, the charter of the
village, at that time, provided that it should not interfere with
parties engaged in transporting animal matter from Chicago,

MUGLER v. KANSAS.
Opinion of the Court.

or from manufacturing it into a fertilizer or other chemical
product. The enforcement of the ordinance in question operated to destroy the business of the company, and seriously to
impair the value of its property. As, however, its business
had become a nuisance to the community in which it was conducted, producing discomfort, and often sickness, among large
masses of people, the court maintained the authority of the
village, acting under legislative sanction, to protect the public
health against such nuisance. It said: "We cannot doubt
that the police power of the State was applicable and adequate to give an effectual remedy. That power belonged to
the States when the Federal Constitution was adopted. They
did not surrender it, and they all have it now. It extends to
the entire property and business within their local jurisdiction.
Both are subject to it in all proper cases. It rests upon the
fundamental principle that every one shall so use his own as
not to wrong and injure another. To regulate and abate
nuisances is one of its ordinary functions."
It is supposed by the defendants that the doctrine for which
they contend is sustained by Pumpelly v. Green Bay Co., 13
Wall. 166. But in that view we do not concur. That was an
action for the recovery of damages for the overflowing of the
plaintiff's. land by water, resulting from the construction of a
dam across a river. The defence was that the dam constituted a part of the system adopted by the State for improving the navigation of Fox and Wisconsin rivers; and it was
contended that as the damages of which the plaintiff complained were only the result of the improvement, under legislative sanction, of a navigable stream, he was not entitled to
compensation from the State or its agents. The case, therefore, involved the question whether the overflowing of the
plaintiff's. land, to such an extent that it became practically
unfit to be used, was a taking of property, within the meaping of the constitution of Wisconsin, providing that "the
property of no person shall be taken for public use without
just compensation therefor." This court said it would be a
very curious and unsatisfactory result, were it held that, "if
the government refrains from the absolute conversion of real

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

property to the uses of the public, it can destroy its value
entirely, can inflict irreparable and permanent injury to any
extent, can, in effect, subject it to total destruction, without
making any compensation, because, in the narrowest sense of
that word, it is not taken for the public use. Such a construction would pervert the constitutional provision into a restriction upon the rights of the citizen, as those rights stood at the
common law, instead of the government, and make it an
authority for the invasion of private right under the pretext
of the public good, which had no warrant in the laws or
practices of our ancestors." pp. 177, 178.
These principles hav no application to the case under consideration. The question in Punpelly v. Green Bay Co,pany arose under the State's power of eminent domain; while
the question now before us arises under what are, strictly, the
police powers of the State, exerted for the protection of the
health, morals, and safety of the people. That case, as this
,court said in Tranportation Co. v. MJkicago, 99 U. S. 635, 642,
was an extreme qualification of the doctrine, universally
held, that "acts done in the proper exercise of governmental powers, and not directly encroaching upon private property, though these consequences may impair its use," do not
constitute a taking within the meaning of the constitutional
provision, or entitle the owner of such property to compensation from the State or its agents, or give him any right of
action. It was a case in which there was a "permanent
flooding of private property," a "physical invasion of thd
real estate of the private owner, and a practical ouster of his
possession." His property was, in effect, required to be
devoted to the use of the public, and, consequently, he was
entitled to compensation.
As already stated, the present case must be governed by
principles that do not involve the power of eminent domain,
in the exercise of which property may not be taken for public
use without compensation. A prohibition simply upon the
use of property for purposes that are declared, by valid legislation, to be injurious to the health, morals, or safety of the
community, cannot, in any just sense, be deemed a taking or

MUGLER v. KANSAS.
Opinion of the Court.

an appropriation of property for the public benefit. Such
legislation does not disturb the owner in the control or use of
his property for lawful purposes, nor restrict his right to dispose of it, but is only a declaration by the State that its use
by any one, for certain forbidden purposes,. is prejudicial to
the public interests. Nor can legislation -of that character
come within the Fourteenth Amendment, in any case, unless
it is apparent that its real object is not to protect the community, or to, promote the general well-being, but, under the
guise of police regulation, to deprive the owner of his liberty
and property, without due process of law. The power which
the States have of prohibiting such use by individuals of their
property as will be piejudicial to the health, the morals, or
the safety of the public, is not -and, consistently with the
existence and safety of organized society, cannot be- burdened with the condition that 'the State must compensate
such individual -owners for pecuniary losses they may sustain,
by reason of their not being permitted, by a noxious use of
their property, to inflict injury upon the community. The
exercise of the police power by the destruction of property
which is itself a public nuisance, or the prohibition of its use
in a particular way, whereby its value becomes depreciated, is
very different from taking property for public use, or from
depriving a person of his property without due process of
law. In the one case, a nuisance only is abated; in the other,
unoffending property is taken away from an innocent owner.
It is true, that, when the defendants in these cases purchased
or erected their breweries, the laws of the State did not forbid
the manufacture of intoxicating liquors. But the State did
not thereby give any assurance, or come tnder an obligation,
that its legislation upon that subject would remain unchanged.'
Indeed, as was said in .&'tone v. Mis&issippi, above cited, the
supervision of the public health and the public morals is a
governmental power, "continuing in its nature," and "to be
dealt with as the special exigencies of the moment may re
quire ;" and that, "for this purpose, the largest legislative discretion is allowed, and the discretion cannot be parted with
any more than the power itself." So in Beer Co.v. .a~sach -

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

sets, 97 'U. S. 32: "If the public safety or the public morals
tequire the discontinuance of any manufacture or traffic, tihe
hand of the legislature cannot be stayed from providing for
its discontinuance by any incidental inconvenience which individuals or corporations may suffer."
It now remains to consider certain questions relating particulaxly to the thirteenth section of the act of 1885. That section- which takes the place of § 13 of the act of 1881- is as
follows:
"S~c. 13. All places where intoxicating liquors are manufactured, sold, bartered, or given away in violation of any of
the provisions of this act, or where intoxicating liquors are
kept for sale, barter, or delivery in violation of this act, are
hereby declared to be common nuisances; and upon the judgment of any court having jurisdiction finding such place to be
a nuisance under this section, the sheriff, his deputy, or un'1 er
sheriff, or any constable of the proper county, or marshal of
any city where the same is located, shall be directed to shut
up and abate such place by taking possession thereof and destroying all intoxicating liquors found therein, together with
all signs, screens, bars, bottles, glasses, and other property
used in keeping and maintaining said nuisance; and the owner
or keeper thereof shall, upon conviction, be adjudged guilty
of maintaining a common nuisance, and shall be punished by
a fine of not less than one hundred dollars nor more than five
hundred dollars, and by imprisonment in the county jail not
less than thirty days nor more than ninety days. The attorney general, county attorney, or any citizen of the county
where such nuisance exists, or is kept, or is maintained, may
maintain an action in the name of the State to abate and perpetnaUly enjoin the same. The injurction shall be granted at
the commencement of the action, and no bond shall be required. Any person violating the terms of any injunction
granted in such proceeding, shall be punished as for contempt,
by a fine of not less than ono hundred nor more than five
hundred dollars, or by imprisonment in the county jail not less
than thirty days nor more than six months, or by both such
fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of the court."

MUGLER v. KANSAS.
Opinion of the Court.

It is contended by counsel in the case of -'aYas

v. Ziebold

& iagelin,that the entire scheme of this section is an attempt
to deprive persons who come within its provisions of their
property and of their liberty without due process of law:
especially, when taken in connection with that clause of § 14
(amendatory of § 21 of the act of 1881) which provides that
"in prosecutions under this act, by indictment or otherwise, . . . it shall not be necessary in the first instance
for the State to prove that the party charged did not have a
permit to sell intoxicating liquors for the excepted purposes."
We are unable to perceive anything in these regulations
inconsistent with the constitutional guarantees of liberty and
property. The State having authority to prohibit the manufacture and sale of intoxicating liquors for other than medical,
scientific, and mechanical purposes, we do not doubt her power
to declare that any place, kept and maintained for the illegal
manufacture and sale of such liquors, shall be deemed a common nuisance, and be abated, and, at the same time, to provide for thb indictment and trial of the offender. One is a
proceeding against the property used for forbidden purposes,
while the other is for the punishment of the offender.
It is said that by the thirteenth section of the act of 1885, the
legislature, finding a brewery within the State in actual operation, without notice, trial, or hearing, by the mere exercise of'
its arbitrary caprice, declares it to be a common nuisance, and
then prescribes the consequences which are to follow inevitably by judicial mandate required by the statute, and involving
and permitting the exercise of no judicial discretion or judgment; that the brewery being found in operation, the court
is not to determine whether it is a common nuisance, but,
tinder the command of the statute, is to JAzd it to be one:
that it is not the liquor made, or the making of it, which is
thus enacted to be a common nuisance, but the place itself.
including all the property used in keeping and maintaining
the common naisance; that the judge having thus signed
without inquiry- and, it may be, contrary to the fact and
against lis own judgment - the edict of the legislature, the
court is commanded to take possession by its officers of the

1672

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

place and shut it up; nor is all this destruction of property,
by legislative edict, to be made as a forfeiture consequent
upon conviction of any offence, but merely because the legislature so commands; and it is done by a court of equity, without any previous conviction first had, or any trial known to
the law.
This, certainly, is a formidable arraignment of the legislation of Kansas, and if it were founded upon a just interpretation of her statutes, the court would have no difficulty in
declaring that they could not be enforced without infringing
the constitutional rights of the citizen. But those statutes
have no such scope and are attended with no such results as the
defendants suppose. The court is not required to give effect
to a legislative "decree" or "edict," unless every enactment
by the law-making power of a State is to be so characterized.
It is not declared that every establishment is to be deemed a
common nuisance because it may have been maintained prior
to the passage of the statute as a place for manufacturing
intoxicating liquors. The statute is prospective in its operation, that is, it does not put the brand of a common huisance
upon any place, unless, after its passage, that place is kept
and maintained for purposes declared by the legislature to be
injurious to the commnunity. Nor is the court required to
adjudge any place to be a common nuisance simply because it
is charged by the State to be such. It must first find it to be
of that character; that is, must ascertain, in some legal mode,
whether since the statute was passed the place in question has
been, or is being, so used, as to make it a common nuisance.
Equally untenable is the proposition that proceedings in
equity for the purposes indicated in the thirteenth section of
the statute are inconsistent with due process of law. "In regard to public nuisances," Mr. Justice Story says, "the jurisdiction of courts of equity seems to be of a very ancient date, and
has been distinctly traced back to the reign of Queen Elizabeth.
The jurisdiction is applicable not only to public nuisances,
strictly so called, but also to purprestures upon public rights
and property.

.

.

.

In case of public nuisances, properly

so called, an indictment lies to abate them, and to punish the

MUGLER v. KANSAS.
Opinion of the Court.

offenders. But an information, also, lies in equity to redress
the grievance by way of injunction." 2 Story's Eq. § 921,
922. The ground of this jurisdiction in cases of purpresture,
as vell as of public nuisances, is the ability of courts of equity
to give a more speedy, effectual, and permanent remedy, than
can be had at law. They can not only prevent, nuisances that
are threatened, and before irreparable mischief ensues, but
arrest or abate those in progress, and, by perpetual injunction,
protect the public against them in the future; whereas courts
of law can only reach existing nuisances, leaving future acts
to be the subject of new prosecutions or proceedings. This is
a salutary jurisdiction, especially where a nuisance affects the
health, morals, or safety of the community. Though not frequently exercised, the power undoubtedly exists in courts of
equity thus to protect the public against injury. .District
Attorney v. Zynn and Boston Railroad Co., 16 Gray, 242,
245 ; Attorney General v. .New Jersey Railroad, 2 Green, Ch.
139; Attorney General v. Tior Ice Co., 104 Mfass. 239, 244;
State v. Mayor, 5 Porter (Ala.), 279, 294; Hooe v. Attorney
General, 22 Ala. 190, 194; Attorney General v. Hunter, 1
Dev. Eq. 12; Attorney General v. Forbes, 2 IXyl. & Cr.
123, 129, 133; Attorney General v. Great NSorthern Railway
Co., 1 Drew. & Sm. 154, 161; Eden on Injunctions, 259; Kerr
on Iiijunctions (2d ed.), 168.
As to the objection that the statute makes no provision for
a jury trial in cases like this one, it is sufficient to say that
such a mode of trial is not required in suits in equity brought
to abate a public nuisance. The statutory direction that an
injunction issue at the commencement of the action is not to
be construed as dispensing with such preliminary proof as is
necessary to authorize an injunction pending the suit. The
court is not to issue an injunction simply because one is asked,
or because-the charge is made that a common nuisance is
maintained in violation of law. The statute leaves -the court
at liberty to give effect to the principle that an injunction
will not be granted to restrain a nuisance, except upon clear
and satisfactory evidence that one exists. Here the fact to be
ascertained was, not whether a place, kept and maintained for
voL. cxxm-43

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

purposes forbidden by the statute, was, per se, a nuisancethat fact being conclusively determined by the statute itself but whether the-place in question was so kept and maintained.
If the proof upon that point is not full or sufficient, the
court can refuse an injunction, or postpone action until the
State first obtains the verdict of a jury in her favor. In
this case, it cannot be denied that the defendants kept and
maintained a place that is within the statutory definition of a
common nuisance. Their petition for the removal of the cause
from the state court, and their answer to the bill, admitted
every fact necessary to maintain this suit, if the statute, under
which it was brought, was constitutional.
Touching the provision that in prosecutions, by indictment
or otherwise, the State need not, in the first instance, prove
that the defendant has not the permit required by the statute,
we may remark that, if it has any application to a proceeding
like this, it does not deprive him of the presumption that he is
innocent of any violation of law. It is only a declaration that
when the State has proven that the place described is kept
and maintained for the manufacture or sale of intoxicating
liquors - such manufacture or sale being unlawful except for
specified purposes, and then only under a permit -the prosecution need not prove a negative, namely, that the defendant
has not the required license or permit. If the defendant has
such license or permit, he can easily produce it, and thus overthrow the _p inafacie case established by the State.
A portion of the argument in behalf of the defendants is to
the effect that the statutes of Kansas forbid the manufacture
of intoxicating liquors to be exported, or to be carried to other
States, and, upon that ground, are repugnant to the clause of
the Constitution of the United States, giving Congress power to
regulate commerce wilah foreign nations and amnong the several
States. We need only say, upon this point, that there is no intimation in the record that the beer which the respective defendants manufactured was intended to be carried out of the State
or to foreign countries. And, without expressing an opinion as
to whether such facts would have constituted a good defence,
we observe that it will be time enough to decide a case of that
character when it shall come before us.

MUGLER v. KANSAS.
Separate Opinion of Mr. Justice Field.

For the reasons stated, we are of opinion that the judgments
of the Supreme Court of Kansas have not denied to .Mugler, the plaintiff in error, any right,privilege, or inmunity
secured to Atim by the Constitution of the United States,
and its judgment, in each case, is, accordingly, ffrmed.
We are, also, of opinion that the Circuit Court of the
United States erred in dismissing the bill of the State
against Ziebold & Hagelin. The decree in that case is reversed, and the cause reemanded, with directions to enter a
decree granting to the State such relief as the act of lfarch
7, 1885, authorizes.
Rah.JUsTiC.

FIELD

delivered the following separate opin-

ion.
I dissent from the judgment in the last case, the one coming
from the Circuit Court of the United States.
I agree to so much of the opinion as asserts that there is
nothing in the Constitution or laws of the United States
affecting the validity of any act of Kansas prohibiting the
sale of intoxicating liquors manufactured in the State, except
under proper regulations for the protection of the health and
morals of the people. , But I am not prepared to say that
the State can prohibit the manufacture of such liquors within
its limits if they are intended for exportation, or forbid
their sale within its limits, under like regulations, if Congress has authorized their importation, though the act of
Kansas is broad enough to include both such manufacture and
sale. The right to import an article of merchandise, recogiiized as sueh by the coimnercial world - whether the right be
given by act of Congress or by treaty with a foreign country
- would seem necessarily to carry the right to sell the article
when imported. In Brown v. -Maryland,12 Wheat. 447,
Chief Justice Marshall, in delivering the opinion of this
court, said as follows: "Sale is the object of importation,
and is an essential ingredient of that intercourse of which
importation constitutes a part. It is as essential an ingredient, as indispensable to the existence of the entire thing,

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Separate Opinion of Mr. Justice Field,

then, as importation itself. It must be considered as a component part of the power to regulate commerce. Congress
has a right, not only to authorize importation, but to authorize the importer to sell."
If one State can forbid the sale within its limits of an
imported article, so may all the States, each selecting a different article. There would then be little uniformity of regulations with respect to articles of foreign commerce imported into
different States, and the same may be also said of regulations
with respect to artioles of interstate commerce. And we
know it was one of the objects of the formation of the
Federal Constitution to secure uniformity of commercial regulations against discriminating state legislation. The construction of the comnercial clause of the Constitution, upon
which the License cases in the 7th of Howard were decided,
appears to me to have been substantially abandoned in later
tall v. De Cuir, 95 U. S. 485; TFelton v. State of
decisions.
Afissouri, 91 U. S. 275; County of .Mfob'ile v. Kfimball, 102
U. S. 691; TY'an'ioortationCo. v. ParkersburgA,107 U. S.691;
Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania,114 U. S.196; Wabash,
St. Louis & Pacifc Railway Co. v. Illinois, 118 U. S. 557.
I make this reservation that I may not hereafter be deemed
concluded by a general concurrence in the opinion of the
majority.
I do not agree to what is said with reference to the case
from -the United States Circuit Court. That was a suit in
equity brought for the abatement of the brewery owned by
the defendants. It is based upon clauses in the thirteenth
section of the act of Kansas, which are as follows:
"All places where intoxicating liquors are manufactured,
sold, bartered, or given away in violation of any of the provisions of this act, or where intoxicating liquors are kept for
sale, barter, or delivery in violation of this act, are hereby
declared to be common nuisances; and upon the judgment of
any court having jurisdiction finding such place to be a nuisance under this section, the sheriff, his deputy, or under
sheriff; or any constable of the proper county, or marshal of
any city where the same is located, shall be directed to shut

MIUGLER v. KANSAS.
Separate Opinion of 3Mr. Justice Field.

up and abate such place by taking possession thereof and
destroying all intoxicating liquors found therein, together
with all signs, screens, bars, bottles, glasses, and other property used in keeping and maintaining said nuisance; and the.
owner or keeper thereof shall, upon conviction, be adjudgedguilty of maintaining a common nuisance, and shall be punished by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars nor more
than five hundred dollars, and by imprisonment in the county
jail not less than thirty days nor more than ninety days.
The Attorney General, county attorney, or any citizen of
the county where such nuisance exists, or is kept, or is maintained, may maintain an action in the name of the State to
abate and perpetually enjoin the same. The injunction shall
be granted at the commencement of the action, and no bond
shall be required."
By a previous section all malt, vinous, and fermented liquors
are classed as intoxicating liquors, and their manufacture, barter, and sale are equally prohibited. By the thirteenth section,
as is well said by counsel, the legislature, without notice to the
owner or hearing of any kind, declares every place where such
liquors are sold, bartered, or given away, or kept for sale, barter, or delivery - in this case a brewery, where beer was
manufactured and sold, which, up to the passage of the act,
was a lawful industry- to be. a common nuisance; and then
prescribes what shall follow, upon a court having jurisdiction finding one of such places to be what the legislature has
already pronounced it. The court is not to determine whether
the place is a common miisance in fact, but is to find it to be
so if it comes within the definition of the statute, and, having
thus found it, the executive officers of the court are to be
directed to shut up and abate the place by taking possession
of it; and, as though this were not sufficient security against
the continuance of the business, they are to be required to destroy all the liquor found therein, and all other property used
in keeping and maintaining the nuisance. It matters not
whether they are of such a character as could be used in any
other business, or be of value for any other purposes. No
discretion is left in the judge or in the officer.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Separate Opinion of Mr. Justice Field.

These clauses appear to me to deprive one who owns a brewery and manufactures beer for sale, like the defendants, of
property without due process of law. The destruction to be
ordered is not as a forfeiture upon conviction of any offence,
but merely because the legislature has so commanded. Assuming, which is not conceded, that the legislature, in the exercise
of that undefined power of the State, called its police power,
may, without compensation to the owner, deprive him of the
use of his brewery for the purposes for which it was constructed under the sanction of the law, and for which alone
it is valuable, I cannot see upon what principle, after closing
the brewery, and thus putting an end to its use in the future
for manufacturing spirits, it can order the destruction of the
liquor already manufactured, which it admits by its legislation
may be valuable for some purposes, and allows to be sold for
those purposes. Nor can I see how the protection of the
health and morals of the people of the State can require the
destruction of property like bottles, glasses, and other utensils,
which may be used for many lawful purposes. It has heretofore been supposed to be an established principle, that where
there is a power to abate a nuisance, the abatement must be
limited by its necessity, and no wanton or unnecessary injury
can be committed to the property or rights of individuals.
Thus, if the nuisance consists in the use to which a building
is 1t)t, the remedy is to stop such use, not to tear down or to
demolish the building itself, or to destroy property found
within it. Babcock v. City of Bufalo, 56 N. Y. 268; £'kenaigo B'ridge Co. v. Paige, 83 N. Y . 178, 189. The decision
of the court, as it seems to me, reverses this principle.
It is plain that great wrong will often be done to manufacturers of liquors, if legislation like that embodied in this
thirteenth section can be upheld. The Supreme Court of Kansas admits that the legislature of the State, in destroying the
values of such kinds of property, may have gone to the utmost
verge of constitutional authority. In my opinion it has passed
beyond that verge, and crossed the line which separates regulation from confiscation.

