STRYKER v. GOODNOW.
Syllabus.

the court is to decide. We cannot go beyond it and collect
other facts which must have been in the mind of the party,
and the insertion of which in this bill of exceptions could alone
have sanctioned the opinion as prayed for." To the same
effect is Worthington,v. MATason, 101 U. S. 149, 152, where this
appears: "As we understand the principles on which judgments here are reviewed by writ of error, that error must appear by some ruling on the pleadings, or on a state of facts
presented to this court. Those facts, apart from the pleadings,
can only be shown here by a special verdict, an agteed statement duly signed and submitted to the court below, or by bill
of exceptions. When in the latter, complaint is made of the
instructions of the court given or refused it must be accompanied by a distinct statement of testimony given or offered
which raises the question to which the instructions apply."
"The proof of the facts which make the charge erroneous
must be distinctly set forth, or it must appear that evidence
was given tending to prove them." See also United States v.
M7korgan, 11 How. 153, 158; .Reed v. Gardner,17 Wall. 409;
Jones v. Buck-ell, 104 U. S. 554; P/ en.- Life Ins. Co. v. Baddin, 120 U. S. 183, 196.
Upon the record as it comes to us we find no error, and the
judgment is consequently
Affirmed.

STRYKER v. GOODN OW'S ADINISTRATOR.
CHAPMAN v. SAME.
WELLES v. SAME.
LITOHFIELD v. SAME.
LITOHFIELD v. SAlJE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
Argued November 1, 18S7.-Decided December 5, 1837.

Upon the record in this case, the question whether the lands of the plaintiffs in error were taxable is not a Federal question, but is one on which

OCTOBER TERMI,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.
the decision of the highest court of the State of Iowa is conclusive; and
it is not reviewable here.
Homestead Company v. Valley Railroad, 17 Wall. 153, is a judicial precedent,
which might have been referred to as a reason for holding that taxes
paid, under the circumstances in which the payments of taxes in contention in these suits were made, cannot be recovered by the party paying
them from the true owners of the land; but it is no bar, as an estoppel,
to the recovery in these cases.
The judgment of this court in Wolcott v. Des Mfoines Company, 5 Wall. 681,
while i may be referred to by the parties in this suit as a judicial precdent, does not operate as an estoppel against the defendant in error.
The filing of a brief in a suit by a person interested in the question to be
decided, but not a party to the suit, does not estop him in a suit of his
own from presenting the same question.

L equity, in a state court of Iowa, to recover from the
plaintiffs in error, defendants below, sums of money alleged
to have been paid by defendant in error on lands in Iowa
adjudged to be the property of the plaintiffs in error; and
also to have the several amounts of the taxes decreed to be
special liens on the lands. Decrees - warding the relief asked
for by the plaintiff below, to review which these writs of
error were sued out. 'The case, and what was claimed to
make the Federal question, are stated in the opinion.
.

. C. H. Gateh for plaintiffs in error.

.A&. Villiam Con.

nor was with him on the brief.
Mr. George Crane for defendant in error.
Mr. CiimF
court.

JUSTICE

WArrE delivered the opinion of the

These suits all grew out of the delay which attended the
settlement of the controversies in reference to the Des ioines
River improvement land grant made by Congress to the Territory of Iowa, August 8, 1846, which will be hereafter referred
to as the river grant. 9 Stat. 77, c. 103. The character of
those controversies may be seen by referring to the cases of
Dubuyue and Pacifc Railroad v. Litck/ield, 23 How. 66;
Wolcott v. -Des Moines Company, 5 Wall. 681; lilliarns v.

STRYKER v. GOODNOW.
Opinion of the Court.

Baker, 17 Wall. 144; Hornes" . Comnoczny v. Valley 1?ailroad,
17 Wall.153; and Wolsey v. Chaprman, 101 U. S. 755. At
first it was supposed, both by the officers of the United States
and of the State, that the grant embraced lands above the
Raccoota Fork of the river, and the State of Iowa made conveyances to the Des Moines Navigation and Railroad Company, under which John Stryker, Richard 3. Chapman, Grace
H. Litchfield, Edwin C. Litchfield, J. B. Plumb, and William
B. Welles each claimed title to separate tracts in that locality
as bonajdqe purchasers.
On the 15th of May, 1856, Congress made another grant of
lands to the' State to aid in the construction of railroads. 11
Stat. 9, c. 28. This grant conflicted with the river grant if
the last-named grant extended above the Raccoon Fork. The
title of the State under the railroad grant to some of the lands
above the Fork,. was transferred to the Dubuque and Pacific
Railroad Company, and that company, on the 25th of October,
1859, began a suit in ejectment against Edwin C. Litchfield to
recover possession of one of the tracts. In that suit it was decided by this court, April 9, 1860, that the river grant did not
extend above the Fork. -Dubuque and Pacic Railroad v.
Litehfield, wt3i supgra. Thereupon Congress, on the 2d of
March, 1861, passed a joint resolution relinquishing the interest of the United States in the lands above the Fork to the
State for the benefit of bona flde purchasers under the river
grant.
The Des Moines Navigation and Railroad Company, holding
title from the State to the lands above the Fork under the
river grant, conveyed one of the tracts, on the 8th of August,
1859, to Samuel G. Wolcott, by deed, with full covenants of
warranty. In 1865, Wolcott brought suit against the Navigation and Railroad Company in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of New York to. recover damages for a breach of the covenants in that deed, alleging that
the title had failed. In that case it was decided by this court,
May 13, 1867, that the railroad grant in 1856 did not include
any of the lands above the Raccoon Fork which had been
claimed 'under the river grant, and that the title of Wolcott
voL. Cxxm-34

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

under his deed from the Navigation and Railroad Company
had not failed. Wolcott v. -Des Xoines Co., ubi supra. While
that case was pending in this court, the attorney of the Dubuque and Pacific Railroad Company was allowed to file a
brief in support of the claim of Wolcott that the title was in
that company and not in the Navigation Company.
The title which the Dubuque and Pacific Railroad Company
claimed from the State under the railroad grant passed to the
Dubuque and Sioux City Railroad Company in the month of
August, 1861, and that company afterwards paid the taxes
assessed and levied on the lands in dispute for the years 1861,
1862, and 1863. Those for the year 1861 were paid October
31, 1866; those for 1862, December 9, 1863; and those for
1863, January 20, 1864. On the 12th of November, 1863, the
Railroad Company conveyed to the Iowa Homestead Company,
an Iowa corporation, its title to the lands in dispute between
the Railroad Company and the claimants under the river
grant. The Homestead Company afterwards paid the taxes
on the lands for the years 1864, 1865, 1866, 1867, 1868, 1869,
1870, and 1871.

On the 12th of October, 1869, the Homestead Company
began a suit in equity in the District Court of Webster County,
Iowa., to quiet its title to the lands, making the Des Moines
Navigation and Railroad Company, Samuel G. Wolcott, William B. Welles, Roswell S. Burrows, Edwin C. Litchfield, William J. McAlpine, Richard B. Chapman, Albert II. Tracy,
Francis W. Tracy, Harriet Tracy, Electus B. Litchfield, Edward Wade, John Stryker, the Des Moines Valley Railroad
Company, Thomas Colter, Jacob Crouse, and John P. McDermott, defendants. In the bill it was alleged that the Hemestead Company had been in possession of the lands since 1861,
and that "they have paid taxes thereon to the State of Iowa
since, . . . and if their title has failed they are entitled to
have their taxes refunded since 1861 by the holder of the legal
title, who has not paid them."
As to the defendants Wolcott, Welles, Burrows, Edwin C.
Litchfield, McAlpine, Chapman, Albert H. Tracy, Francis W.
Tracy, Harriet Tracy, Electus B. Litchfield, Wade, and Stryker,

STRYKER -v. GOODNOW.
Opinion of the Court.

it was alleged that they held title to certain parcels of the
lands under the river grant. The defendants Colter, Orouse,
and McDermott were alleged to be preemption claimants.
The Des Moines Navigation and Railroad Company was the
corporation to which the State transferred the river grant, and
from which the other defendants, who hold under that grant,
got their respective titles. The Des Moines Valley Railroad
Company was made a defendant because of its claim of title
to lands involved in the suit but which did not pass to the
Des Moines Navigation and Railroad Company under the
river grant. The prayer of the bill as to the several claimants
under the river grant was, that the Homestead Company
might be quieted in its title, and "that, in the event of "a
decree that the plaintiff's present title, or any part of it, has
failed, the Des Moines Navigation and Railroad Company
and its assigns may be decreed to repay to the plaintiff all
taxes which he has paid on said lands, and interest thereon."
Afterwards, on the 13th of October, 1868, Edwin C. Litchfield, Electus B. Litchfield, and John Stryker, three of the
defendants, and citizens of New York, filed their petition for
the removal of the suit. to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Iowa, under the act of M arch 2,
1867 (14 Stat. 558, c. 196), on the ground of "prejudice or
local influence." This petition was accepted by the state
court and an order entered "that. this cause be transferred to
the said Circuit Court

.

.

.

as to said defendants in e."

Under this order the petitioning parties entered a copy of the
record in the Circuit Court on the 17th of March, 1869, and
during the summer or fall of that year the defendants, the
Des Moines Navigation and Railroad Company, the Tracys,
the Litchfields, Wolcott, Chapman, McAlpine, Welles, Wade,
and Stryker, all answered, setting up their titles under the
river grant'to the specific tracts of land held by them respectively, and, as to the taxes paid by the Homestead Company,
averring that they were -paid "voluntarily, with a knowledge
of all the facts, and that the complainant is not entitled to
have the same or any part thereof refunded."
On the 13th of May, 1870, the following entry was made
by the Circuit Court in the cause:

OCTOBER TERMA,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

"The Iowa Homestead Company, Complainant,
V.

"The Des Moines Navigation & Railroad Company, Samuel
G.'Wolcott, Win. B. Welles, Roswell S. Burrows, Edwin
C. Litchfield, Win. J. McAlpine, Richard B. Chapman, Albert H. Tracy, Francis W. Tracy, Harriet Tracy, Electus
B. Litchfield, Edward Wade, John Stryker, et al, Defendants.
"This action was commenced in the District Court of Webter County, Iowa, at the October term of said District Court.
The defendants, Edwin C. Litchfield, Electus B. Litchfield,
and John Stryker, filed their affidavit, bond, and petition asking the removal of this action from said District Court to this
court, under the provisions of the act of Congress approved
March 2d, 1867, entitled 'An act to amend an act for the
removal of causes in certain cases from the state courts,'
approved July 27, 1866.
"And it appearing to said District Court that said Edwin C.
Litchfield, Electus B. Litchfield, and John Stryker were nonresidents of the State of Iowa and residents of the State of
New York, and that their application for the removal of this
cause to this court in all respects conformed to the requirements of said act of Congress, the said District Court, at the
October term thereof, in the year 1868, made the usual order
transferring and removing this cause to this court as to the
defendants Edwin C. Litchfield, Electus B. Litchfield, and
John Stryker, and this cause as to said defendants was removed to this court for trial.
"And it appearing that the defendants, Samuel G. Wolcott,
Win. B. Welles, Roswell S. Burrows, Win. J. McAlpine, Richard B. Chapman, Albert H. Tracy, Francis W. Tracy, Harriet
Tracy, and Edward Wade, are, each and every of them, nonresidents of the State of Iowa and district of Iowa, and under
the statute above referred to are also entitled to a removal of
this cause from the state court., and that said defendants,
with the express consent and approval of the plaintiff, have
appeared and answered the bill herein, and asked to be made

STRYKER v. GOODNOIV.
Opinion of the Court.

parties defendant, and that their rights may be heard and
determined in this court and on the trial of this action.
"And it further appearing to this court that the defendants
so asking to be made parties defendant hold under the same
title as the defendants Edwin C. Litchfield, Electus B. Litchfield, and John Stryker, and that their defence is in all respects idontical,'with the said plaintiff consenting, it is ordered
that said Samuel G. Wolcott, Win. B. Welles, Roswell S. Burrows, Win. J. McAlpine, Richard B. Chapman, Albert H.
Tracy, Francis W. Tracy, Harriet Tracy, and Edward Wade,
and. each and every of them, be made parties defendant
herein; that the answer filed by said persons be taken and
deemed their answer to the complainant's bill; and that by
their appearance and answer herein the said persons be
deemed and treated as defendants herein and their rights in
the premises adjudicated in and by this court in this action."
Afterwards the case came to this court in due course on
appeal, where, on the 28th of April, 1873, it was decided that
the defendants holding under the river grant had the better
title, and that the Homestead Company could not recover for
the taxes because they were paid voluntarily, without any
request from the owners of the land and with a full knowledge of all the facts. A decree was thereupon entered affirming a decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill. Homestead Company v. Valley _Railroad, 17 Wall. 153.
The Dubuque and Sioux City Railroad Company assigned
to Edward K. Goodnow, then in life, all its claims against the
owners of the lands in dispute for taxes paid, and he, on the
26th of July, 1880, brought suits in the Circuit Court of Webster County, one against John Stryker, one against the executor of Edwin C. Litchfield, one against Richard B. Chapman,
one against Grace H. Litchfield, and, on the 30th of June,
1881, another against the executor and grantees of William
B. Welles, to recover from them respectively the amounts due
for the taxes of 1861, 1862 and 1863, paid by the Railroad
Company on their several tracts of land.
As defences to the actions each of the defendants set up in
his answer:

53 :

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

1. That, as to the taxes of 1861 and 1862, the lands belonged
at the time of the levies respectively to the United States;
"that the title thereto was in the United States, and that. said
lands were not subject to taxation by Webster County for any
purpose for said years, and that if any taxes were assessed and
levied thereon for the years aforesaid the same were not a valid
or binding lien upon said lands."
2. That Goodnow and his assignor were estopped by the
decree in the suit of the Homestead Company against the Des
Moines Navigation and Railroad Company and others from a
recovery ,in this action, that suit having been brought, among
other things for the same taxes, and having been prosecuted
under the advice and direction of the Dubuque and Sioux City
Railroad Company before its assignment to Goodnow.
In the suits against Chapman, Welles, the executor of Edwin
C. Litchfield, and Grace H. Litchfield, an additional defence
was made, to wit, that the decision of this court, at December
term, 1866, in the case of T olcott v. Des 317oines Company, 5
Wall. 681, was a final determination, of the disputed questions
as to the title and ownership of the lands above the Raccoon
Fork in controversy between the Dubuque and Sioux City
Railroad Company and the Des Moines Navigation and Railroad Company and its grantees under their respective claims,
and that, as these suits were not brought within either five or
six years after that decision, they were barred by the statute
of limitations.
The Supreme Court of Iowa, on appeal from the decree of
the Webster Circuit Court in each of the cases, overruled these
defences, denied to the defendants the rights, privileges, and
immunities by them respectively set up and claimed under the
laws and authority of the United States, and gave judgment
against them for.the taxes sued for. To reverse those judgments these writs of error were brought. The cases are
reported as Goodnow v. Snyker, 62 Iowa, 221; Goodnow v.
Ck apmnn, 64 Iowa, 602; Goodnow v. Litchfeld, 67 Iowa, 691;
Goodnow v. Wells, 67 Iowa, 654.
The Federal questions relied on in argument are:
1. That as the title to the lands remained in the United

STRYKER v. GOODNOW.
Opinion of the Court.

States until March 2, 1861, and as by the act of March
3, 1845, c. 48, ยง 7, 5 Stat. 743, admitting Iowa into the Union
as a State, it was provided that the State should not levy any
tax on public lands within its limits "whilst the same remained
the property of the United States," the taxes for the year 1861
were illegal and void, because levied in violation of that act of
Congress.
2. That the decree in the case of Homestead Company v.
T;alley Railroad was in its legal effect a bar to the recovery in
this action, and as the Supreme Court of the State decided
otherwise it failed to give full faith and credit to the judicial
proceedings of this court acting under the authority of the
United States.
3. That the judgment of this court in the case of "Folcotev.
Des .3roinesConpany was a final determination on the 13th of
May, 1867, against the right of the Dubuque and Sioux City
Railroad Company to claim the lands on which the taxes were
levied in these cases, and that the legal effect of that judgment was to bar the right of the railroad company, and Goodnow as its assignee, to recover in this action, because the
action was not commenced within the time prescribed by the
statute of limitations after the rendition of that judgment.
These will be considered in their order.
1. As to the taxes of 1861. It is not contended that these
taxes were actually levied upon.the lauds until after the title
had passed out of the United States; -but the claim is, that, by
the laws of Iowa in force at the time, "government lands
entered or located, or lands purchased from the State, shall
not be taxed for the year in which the entry, location, or purchase was made," and that, as these taxes were levied within
the year after the title passed out of the United States, they
were illegal.
Whether the lands were taxable within a year after the title
passed out of the United States is not a Federal question.
There was nothing in the act of Congress admitting Iowa into
the Union, or in any other act of Congress to which our attention has been directed, which .in any manner interfered with
the power' of the State to tWx lands as soon as they ceased to

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

be the property of the United States. The only prohibition
was against taxation whilst the United States were the owners.
The Supreme Court of Iowa has decided that the statute of
the State referred to does not apply to these cases, because
these lands were neither "entered" nor "located" within the
meaning of those terms as applied to the acquisition of lands
from the government. Consequently there was nothing in the
laws of Iowa to prevent the levy of the taxes for 1861 as soon
*as the resolution of March 2d, 1861, went into effect. Goodnow
v. Wells, 67 Iowa, 654:. This, it was said, is in accordance with
previous cases bearing on the same question, among which
Stryke, v. Polk ยฃ'ounty, 22 Iowa, 131, and Litchfteld v. County
of Hfamilton, 40 Iowa, 66, were referred to. With the correctness of this decision we have nothing to do. It relates only
to the construction of a State statute which is in no way in
conflict with the Constitution or any law of the United States.
The judgment of the state court on that question is final, and
not reviewable here.
. We are referred, however, to Litchfield v. County of Harmilton, 101 U. S. 781, as an authority to the contrary of this.
That was a suit in equity brought by Edwin C. Litchfield
against the County of Hamilton, in a court of the State, to
restrain the collection of taxes for the years 1859, 1860, 1861,
1862, 1863, 1864, and 1865 on lands owned by him. in that
county, and held under a title similar to that in these cases.
The Supreme Court of the State dec'ded (litcfield v. County
of Hamilton,40 Iowa, 66) that the taxes for all the years were
collectible, and to reverse a decree to that effect the case was
brought here upon a writ of error. It was submitted on
printed arguments when it was reached in the regular call of
the docket. A few days before this submission was made an
appeal in the suit of Edwin C. Lite/feld v. County of Webster,
brought in the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of Iowa, to enjoin the collection of taxes levied by the
county of Webster, for the same years, on lands similarly situated in that county, was submitted under Rule 20, and the
two cases were before us for consideration at the same P'me.
We decided unanimously that the lands were not taxable for

STRYKER v. GOODNOW.
Opinion of the Court.

the years 1859, 1860, and 1861, and the principal opinion was
pre4pared in the case of Webster County, (101 U. S. 773,)
which, being here on appeal from the Circuit Court, was open
for consideration upon its merits, without any reference to the
limitation of our authority for the review of the judgments of
the courts of the States. There was no doubt of our jurisdiction in that case to decide as to the taxes of 1861, and in doing
so we held that, as under the statute of Iowa govermnent lands
could not be taxed during the year they were entered or
located, these lands were exempt for that year. The case of
Hamilton County involved precisely the same questions in the
state courts as did that of Webster County in the Circuit
Court. The two cases were argued here substantially in the
same way, and in that of Hamilton County our attention
was not special3 y directed to any difference in the Federal
question presented by the tax for 1861 from that involved in the taxes for 1859 and 1860. The ground of
decision in the court below was the same for all the years,
and, without noticing the distinction which is now made as to
our right to decide ili that case upon the validity of the tax of
1861, we allowed the judgment to follow that in the case of
Webster County, the two cases being exactly the same on
their merits. It now appears we were in error in taking jurisdiction and reversing the judgment in the Hamilton County
case for the tax of 1861. The Supreme Court of the State
has also decided in the case of Goodnow v. MVells, ubi s Tpa,
that we.erred in the decision of the question involved in the
tax of 1861 on its merits, because we held that lands acquired
from the United States by the title which was then and now
under consideratiofi came within the statutory exemption
from taxation in the State for one year after the United States
ceased to be the owners, having been misled, as is supposed,
by an incorrect statement of the law in AfeGregor, &e., Railroad Co. v. Brown, 39 Iowa, 655, to the effect that "government lands are not taxable until a year after they are
patented." We may remark also, that, in our opinion, the
conclusion then reached by us received further support from
the cases of the Iowa Falls and Sioux City Railway v. Che-o-

OCTOBER TERI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

AXee County, 37 Iowa, 483; Goodrich v. Beaman, 37 Iowa., 563;
and Iowa Falls and Sioux City Railway v. lfoodbury Couhty,
38 Iowa, 498. But whether we were right then on this question
or not, it is unnecessary now. to consider, as upon the present
record we are clearly of opinion that the decision of the
court below, to the effect that the lands were taxable for the
year 1861, is not reviewable here. That question is one on
which the decision of the highest court of the State is conclusive.
2. As to the estoppel by the decree in the case of the Homestead Company v. Valley Railroad.
That suit did not embrace the taxes for the years 1861, 1862,
and 1863 paid by the Dubuque and Sioux City Railroad Company. The Homestead Company did not acquire title to the
lafids until November 12, 1863, and-it only paid the taxes for
1864 and thereafter. The conveyance by the Raih'oad Company to the Homestead Company did not profess to transfer
the claim of the Railroad Company against the holders of the
river grant title for taxes paid or to be paid. The suit of the
Homestead Company was for the land, or the taxes 'it had paid.
There was no reference in the pleadings to taxes paid by the
Railroad Company, and no claim was made for anything except the payments by the Homestead Company itself. The
Homestead Company did not profess to sue as trustee for
the Railroad Company. It is true that the Railroad Company, as warrantor of the title of the Homestead Company,
aided in the prosecution of that suit, and that the decree
may be conclusive evidence of a failure of title in a suit
brought by the Homestead Company against the Railroad
Company to recover damages for a breach of the covenants of
warranty in the deed for the lands; but as the taxes paid by
the Railroad Company were in no way involved in the suit,
neither the Railroad Company nor the defendants in that suit
were concluded as to them by anything contained in the decree. The decision may be referred to as a judicial precedent
for holding that taxes paid under the circumstances in which
these were paid could not be recovered -by the party paving
them from the true owners of the land, but it is in no sense a

STRYKER v. GOODNOW.
Opinion of the Court.

judgment in a suit between the same parties upon the same
cause of action as is here involved, and therefore a bar to the
recovery in these cases. In our opinion the court below did
not fail in its decision to give full faith and credit to that
decree.
3. As to the effect of the judgment in TVoleott v. Des .toines
(:ompany upon the operation of the statute of limitations in
these cases.
That was a suit between a purchaser of a single half section
of the river lands above the Raccoon Fork against his vendor,
the Des Moines Navigation and Railroad Company, to recover
damages for a breach of the covenants of warranty in the deed
of conveyance to him. There was no party to the suit except
Wolcott and the Navigation Company. Wolcott claimed
nothing under the railroad grant or under the Railroad Company. It is true that the ground of his action was the superior
title of the Railroad Company as against that of the Navigation Company at the time of the conveyance of the latter
company to himself, but ]he was neither suing for the Railroad
Company nor representing it in the action, so far as anything
appears in these records or in that. His suit was nothing more
or less than to recover damages from the Navigation Company
for a breach of covenants of warranty with himself, in which
neither the Railroad Company nor any one claiming under it
had any interest. The judgment in the action was conclusive
as between him and the Navigation Company upon the cause
of action involved, but as to no one else. It settled no title
between the Navigation Company or its grantees and the Railroad Company or those claiming under that company. That
decision is indeed referred to in the case of Homestead Company v. falley Raiboad, ubi supra, as "settling" "the question of title to the Des Moines River lands," but that was only
in the way of judicial authority as a precedent, and not as an
estoppel. The legal operation and effect of the judgment as
an estoppel was confined to the title of the parties in that suit
to the particular half section of land then in controversy. As
to any other tract of the river lands and as to any other parties, it stood, in the language of Mr. Justice Miller in William8

OCTOBER TERM1, 1887.
Syllabus.

v. Baker, 17 Wall. 144, only as "an authoritative exposition"
of the views of the court on a question which "was argued
fully by parties deeply interested on both sides" and which
"received attentive consideration," and was, therefore, "entitled to the same weight as other well-considered cases." The
judgment can be referred to by the parties to this suit as a
precedent, but not as an estoppel.
We have not overlooked the fact that a brief was filed at
the hearing in this court on behalf of the Railroad Company
to support the claim of Wolcott that the title of that company
was the best. Such a proceeding did not make the Railroad
Company a party to the suit, or bind it by the decree. Being
interested in the question to be decided, the company was
anxious to secure a judgment that could not be used as a
precedent against its own claims in any litigation that might
thereafter arise in respect to its own property. It is not an
uncoimnon thing in this court to allow briefs to .be presented
by or on behalf of persons who are not parties to the suit, but
who are interested in the questions to be decided, and it has
never been supposed that the judgment in such a case would
estop the intervenor in a suit of his own which presented the
same questions. It could be used as a precedent, but not as
an estoppel in the second suit.
We find no error in the decisions of the Supreme Court of
Iowa upon any of the Federal questions involved in these
cases, and each of the judgments is consequently

-A~fflred.

CHAPMAN v. GOODNOW'S ADMINISTRATOR.
STRYKER v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF IOWA.
Argued November 1, 1887. - Decided December 5, 1887.

While the judgment of this court in Wolcott v. Des Mioines Company, 5
Wall. 681, may be referred to by parties as a judicial precedent, it is not

