HITZ v. JENKS.
Syllabus.

their depth. For outlays caused by such works the State may
exact reasonable tolls.' 119 U. S. 548. And again: "By the
terms tax, impost, and duty, mentioned in the ordinance, is
meant a charge for the use 6f the govermnent, not compensation for improvements." Ibid. 549.
We perceive no error in the record, and
The judgment of the Sup'reme Court of Afticldgan must be
aJfirmed; and it is so ordered.

RUGGLES V. MANISTEE RIVER

Error to the

IMPROVE)IENT Co.

Supreme Court of the State of Michigan.
The same questions are presented as in Sands v. The Ilfanistee
River Imlprovement Co.; and, in conformity with the decision there
rendered, the judgment herein is
Afflrmed.
Mr'. X. J. Smiley for plaintiff in error.
AIR.

JUSTICE FIELD:

11r. T. J. Bamsdell for defendant in error.

HITZ v. JENKS.
SAME v. SAME.
APPEALS FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUIBIA.
Argued October 21, 18S7. -Decided

November 14, 18S7.

Real estate in the District of Columbia, belonging to a mar "led woman before the act of April 10, 1869, c. 23, may be conveyed, by ueed voluntarily
executed and duly acknowledged by her husband and herself, to secure
the payment of a debt of his.
Under §§ 450-452 of the Revised, Statutes of the District of Columbia, a

certificate of the separate examination and acknowledgment of a married
woman, made in the prescribed form, and recorded with the deed exe-

cuted by her, cannot be controlled or avoided, except for fraud, by extrinsic evidence of the manner in which the magistrate performed his
duty.
A receiver of a national bank, appointed by the comptroller of the currency,
is not tqccountable in equity to the owner of real estate for rents

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.
thereof received by him as such receiver, and paid by him into the treasury of the United States, subject to the disposition of the comptroller
of the currency, under § 5234 of the Revised Statutes.
Accruing rents, coliected and paid into court by a receiver appointed on a
bill in equity against the mortgagor and a second mortgagee to enforce
a first mortgage, which appears to have been satisfied and discharged,
belong to the second mortgagee, so far as the land is insufficient to pay
his debt.

IN equity.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

-Mr. Eock Totten for appellant.
A&. "Walter .D. Davidge and .fr. R?.
appellees.

MR.

JusTicE

-D. Mllussey for

GR.Y delivered the opinion of the court.

The original suit was a bill in equity, filed January 10, 1879,
by Keyser, as the receiver of the German American National
Bank, against iHitz and wife, Donaldson, Prentiss, Chipley,
Halstead, Crane, Tyler and Jenks, to enforce a deed, in the
nature of a mortgage, dated January 26, 1876, by which Hitz
and wife conveyed land in Washington to Donaldson and
Prentiss, in trust to secure the payment of promissory notes
for $20,000, made by Chipley, indorsed by Halstead and held
by the bank; as well as to set aside, as made in fraud of the
bank, the following conveyances of the same land: 1st. A release, dated June 16, 1877, from Donaldson and Prentiss to
Mrs. Hitz. 2d. A deed, of the same date, from Hitz and wife
to Crane. 3d. A deed, dated June 18, 187?, from Crane to
Tyler, in trust to secure the payment of Crane's promissory
notes for $20,000, payable to Hitz and by him indorsed to
Jenks.
Mrs. Hitz filed a cross-bill against Keyser and her codefendants, alleging that she was induced to execute the conveyance
to Crane by fraud and in ignorance of its contents; and praying for a cancellation both of that conveyance and of the deed
of trust from Crane to Tyler, and for an account of rents and

HITZ v. JENKS.
Opinion of the Court.

profits. By leave of court, she afterwards amended her bill
so as to allege that the deed to Crane was fraudulently altered
after she executed it.
After a hearing upon pleadings and proofs, it was adjudged
at the special term, by a decree made November 28, 1881, and
amended December 15, 1881, that these two deeds were valid
against Hitz, but void as against his wife; that the former
deed of trust had been discharged by payment and release;
and that Keyser account for the rents and profits previously
received by him, and collect and pay into court all rents subsequently accruing. From that decree Mrs. Hitz, Jenks and
Keyser each appealed to the general term, which on December 11, 1883, reversed the decree of the special term, and dismissed both bills, save that the cause was retained to take an
account of the rents and profits received or which should have
been received by Keyser, and to determine the right to those
rents and profits, which were claimed by Jrs. .Hitz as her
separate property, by JXenks as part of the security afforded
by the deed of trust to Tyler, and by Keyser under judgments
recovered against Hitz. 2 Mackey, 513. On July 13, 1885,
a further decree was entered in general term, denying the
right of Mrs. Hitz to any part of those rents and profits.
4 Mackey, 179. From each decree of the general term she
alone appealed to this court.
The principal matter to be determined is the validity, as
against Mrs. Hitz, of the conveyance from her husband and
herself to Crane, and of the deed of trust from Crane to
Tyler. The evidence establishes the following facts:
Mr. and Mrs. litz were married in 1856, children were
born to them, and she inherited the land in question from her
father, before the passage of the act of Congress, providing
that "in the District of Columbia the right of any married
woman to any pro Jerty, personal or real, belonging to her at
the time of marriage, or acquired during marriage in any
other way than by gift or conveyance from her husband, shall
be as absolute as if she were feme sole, and shall not be subject to the disposal of her husband, nor be liable for his debts;
but, such married woman may convey, devise and bequeath

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

the same, or any interest therein, in the same manner and
with like effect as if she were unmarried." Act of April 10,
1869, c. 23, § 1, 16 Stat. 45; Rev. Stat. D. C. §§ 727, 728.
Chipley and Halstead were men of no means, and the real
object of the deed of trust from Hitz and wife to Donaldson
and Prentiss was to secure certain liabilities of Hitz to the
bank, of which he was then president. The object of making the deeds from Hitz and wife to Crane and from Crane to
Tyler was to secure the payment of money actually advanced
lty Jenks to Hitz, and by Hitz applied to the payment of the
notes secured by the former deed of trust.
The evidence satisfactorily proves that no fraud was practised upon Mrs. Hitz, and that the deed from herself and her
husband to Crane was put in its present form before it was
signed by either of them. As these are pure matters of fact,
and the evidence relating to them is well summed up in the
opinion of the court below, they need not be enlarged upon.
2 Mackey, 521-526.
There can be no doubt that by a deed, voluntarily executed
and duly acknowledged by the husband and the wife, the
entire title of both might be conveyed to secure the payment
of his debt, notwithstanding that the act of 1869, as construed
by this court, exempted the land, or any interest therein, from
being taken on execution against him. Hfitz v. .Vational
.Metropolitan Bank, 111 U. S. 722; Mattoon v. .icGrew, 112
U. S.713.
The more important question is, whether the appellant has
shown by competent and sufficient proof that her acknowledgment of the deed to Crane did not fulfil the requirements
of the Revised Statutes of the District of Columbia upon the
subject, which are as follows:
By § 441, acknowledgments of deeds may be made before
any judge of a court of record and of law, or any chancellor
of a State, or a judge of a court of the United States, or a
justice of the peace, or a notary public, or a commissioner of
the circuit court of the district.
By § 450, "when any married woman shall be a party
executing a deed for the conveyance of real estate or interest

HITZ v. JENKS.
Opinion of the Court.

therein, and shall only be relinquishing her right of dower, or
when she shall be a party with her husband to any deed, it
shall be the duty of the officer authorized to take acknowledgments, before whom she may appear, to examine her privily
and apart from her husband, and to explain to her the deed
fully."
By § 451, "if, upon such privy examination and explanation, she shall acknowledge the deed to be her act and deed, and
shall declare that she had willingly signed, sealed and delivered
the same, and that she wished not to retract it, the officer
shall certify such examination, acknowledgment and declaration by a certificate annexed to the deed, and under his hand
and seal, to the following effect," that is to say, beginning
in the usual form of a certificate of acknowledgment, and
adding that "being by me examined privily and apart from
her husband, and having the deed aforesaid fully explained to
her, she acknowledged the same to be her act and deed, and
declared that she had willingly signed, sealed and delivered
the same,, and that she wished not to retract it."
By § 452, "when the privy examination, acknowledgment
and declaration of a married woman is taken and certified and
delivered to the recorder of deeds for record, in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter, the deed shall be as effectual in law as if she had been an unmarried woman," except
as to any covenants therein.
These provisions substantially reenact statutes which have
been in force ever since 1715 in the District of Columbia, and
in the State of Maryland out of which the District was
formed. Maryland Stats. 115, c. 47, § 11; 1752, c. 8; 1766,
c. 14, § 6; 1797, c. 103, § 3-all in Kilty's Laws ; Dist. Col.
Laws 1868, pp. 21, 28, 38; acts of May 31, 1832, c. 112, 4
Stat. 520 ; April 20, 1838, c. 57, § 4, 5 Stat. 227.
The conveyance of the estates of married women by deed,
with separate examination and acknowledgment, has taken
the place of the alienation of such, estates by fine in a court of
record under the law of England, though differing in some of
its effects, owing to the 'diversity in the nature of the two
modes of proceeding.

OCTOBER TERAI,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

A fine was in the form of a judgment of a court of record,
at fhist in an actual, and afterwards in a fictitious suit by the
conusee against the conusors to recover possession of the land :
and derived its very name from its putting an end to that suit
and to all other controversies concerning the same matter. 2
]l. Com. 849; Co. Lit. 262a. A party could not therefore
impeach it at law, even for infancy (except by writ of error
sued out while still under age) or for insanity. Bac. Ab.
Fines and Recoveries, Fines C; 5 Cruise Dig. tit. 35, c. 5.
§§ 41-54; Jl-irley v. Serren, 1 Per. & Day. 126; ,. C. 8 Ad.
& El. 754. Yet if any fraud or undue practice was used in
obtaining the fine, the Court of Chancery would relieve
against it, as against any other conveyance. 5 Cruise Dig.
tit. 35, c. 14, §§ 68-77 ; Blkley v. lJiTford, 2 Cl. & Fin. 102:
conrj v. Caczleld, 2 Ball & Beatty, 255.
On the other hand, the alienation of land by deed of husband and wife with her separate examination and acknowledgment is, in form as well as in fact, a conveyance by the parties.
and therefore does not, even if the acknowledgment is certified by a magistrate in the form prescribed by statute, and
recorded, bind a wife who, by reason of infancy or insanity, is
incapable of conveying. Sims v. Everhardt, 102 UT. S. 300;
Williams v. Baker, 71 Penn. St. 476' Priest v. Cuamnings, 16
Wend. 617, 631, and 20 Wend. 338, 349; lackson v. Scoonmnaker, 4 Johns. 161. In any case of fraud or duress, also, it
may be impeached by bill in equity, or, in some States, in an
action at law. Central Bank v. Copeland, 18 Maryland, 305 ;
Sc
laer v. De kcer, 9 Penn..St. 14;, Louden v. Blythe, 16
Penn. St. 532, and 27 Penn. St. 22; Hall v. Patterson, 51
Penn. St. 289; Jackson v. HMayner, 12 Johns. 469; Fisher v.
Jleister, 24 Michigan, 447; TWiley v. Prince, 21 Texas, 637.
The statute of 18-Edw. I. -De Arodo Levandi Fines enacted
that if a feme covert should be one of the parties to a fine,
then she must first be examined by certain justices, and if she
did not assent to the fine it should not be levied. Yet this
was always understood to mean that the fine ought not to be
received without her examination and free consent; but that
if it was received and recorded, neither she nor her heirs could

HITZ v. JENKS.
Opinion of the Court.

be permitted to aver that she was not examined and did not
consent; "for this," says Lord Coke, "should be against the
record of the court, and tending to the weakening of the general assurances of the realm." 2 Inst. 510, 515; Bac. Ab. ubi
The object of a statute, like that now before us, requiring
the separate examination of the wife to be taken by a judicial
officer or notary public, to be certified by him in a particular
form, and to be recorded in the registry of deeds, is twofold:
not only to protect the wife by making it the duty of such an
officer to ascertain and to certify that she has not executed the
deed by compulsion of her husband or in ignorance of its contents; but also to facilitate the conveyance of the estates of
married women, and to secure and perpetuate evidence, upon
which innocent gTantees as well as subsequent purchasers may
rely, that the requirements of the statute, necessary to give
validity to the deed, have been complied with. Lawrence v.
Heister', 3"Har. & Johns. 371, 377.
The duty of examining the wife privily and apart from her
husband, of explaining the deed to her fully, and of ascertaining that she executed it o her own free will, without coercion
or under influence of his, is a duty imposed by law upon the
officer, involving the exercise of judgment and discretion, and
thus a judicial or quasi-judicial act. The magistrate is required
to ascertain a particular state of facts, and, having ascertained
it, to certify it for record, for the benefit of the parties to
the deed, and of all others who may thereafter acquire rights
under it. And the statute expressly provides that upon the
recording of the certificate "the deed shall be as effectual in"
law as if she had been an unmarried woman."
The reasonable, if not the necessary conclusion is, that, except in case of fraud, the certificate, made and recorded as the
statute requires, is the sole and conclusive evidence of the separate examination and acknowledgment of the wife.
It has been decided by this court, in a case arising under a
similar statute of Virginia, that if the certificate, as recorded,
is silent as to these facts, the want cannot be supplied by parol
evidence that the wife was duly examined; and this for the

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

reason stated by Mr. Justice Trimble, in delivering judgment,
as follows: "What the law requires to be done, and appear of
record, can only be done and made to appear by the record
itself, or an exemplification of the record. It is perfectly immaterial whether there be an aclnowledgment or privy examination in fact or not, if there be no record made of the privy
examination; for, by the express provisions of the law, it is not
the fact of privy examination merely, but the recording of the
fact, which makes the deed effectual to pass the estate of a
feme covert." .Elliott v. Peirsol,1 Pet. 328, 340.
That the magistrate's certificate, when made in the form required by the statute, and dulyrecorded, is conclusive evidence
that he has performed his duty, has not been directly adjudged
by this court; but the course of its decisions has tended to this
conclusion. In Drury v. Foster Mr. Justice Nelson, in delivering judgment, observed: "There is authority for saying, that
where a perfect deed has been signed and acknowledged before
the proper officer, an inquiry into the examination of the feme
covert, embracing the requisites of the statute, as constituting
the acknowledgment, with a view to contradict the writing,
is inadmissible; that the acts of the Afficer for this purpose are
judicial and conclusive." 2 Wall. 24, 34. And in Young v.
Duvall, the court said that if the officer's certificate "can be
contradicted, to the injury of those who in good faith have
acted upon it, the proof to that end must be such as will clearly
and fully show the certificate to be false or fraudulent. The
mischiefs that would ensue from a different rule could not well
be overstated. The cases 6f hardship upon married women
that might occur under the operation of such a rule are of less
consequence than the general insecurity of titles to real estate.
which would inevitably follow from 6ne less rigorous." 109
U. S. 573, 5,71.
It would be inconsistent with the reasons above stated, as
well as with a great weight of authority, to hold that, in the
case of a deed actually executed by a married woman of full
age and sound mind, a certificate of her separate examination
and acknowledgmet, in the form prescribed by the statute,
and duly recorded with the deed, can afterwards, except for

RITZ v. JENKS.
Opinion of the Court.

fraud, be controlled or avoided by extrinsic evidence of the
ilanner in which the examination was conducted by the magistrate.

Camegys v. Clarke, 44 Maryland, 108; Jamison v.

faraison, 3 Wharton, 457; Williams v. Baker, 71 Penn. St.
476 ; Hlarkins v. Forsyth, 11 Leigh, 2941; Greene v. Godfrey,
44 Maine, 25 ; Baldwin v. Snowden, 11 Ohio St. 203 ; Graham,
v. Anderson, 42 Illinois, 514; .Do op v. Barney, 5 Oregon, 191;
John'stoa v. Wallace, 53 Mississippi, 331; Hartley v. Frosh, 6
Texas, 208. See also Banck v. Ollerton, 10 Exch. 168, 182.
As to such of the cases, cited by the learned counsel for the
appellant, as have not been already referred to, it may be remarked that in Rhea v. JRhenner, 1 Pet. 105, in Heyburn v.
.Dubois, 12 Pet. 345, in -Dewey v. Campau, 4 Michigan, 565,
and in O'Ferrallv. Simplot, 4 Iowa, 381, the requisite certificate was either wanting or defective upon its face; and that
Dodge'v. lRollinzshead, 6 Minnesota, 25, and Landers v. Boiton,
26 California, 393, were decided under statutes which expressly
provided that the certificate should not be conclusive, but
might be rebutted by other evidence.
In the case at bar, the recorded certificate of the notary
public who took the acknowledgment is in the form given in
the statute. The other evidence on the subject is the testimony of the appellant, and of the notary. The appellant, being
called as a witness in her own behalf, admitted her signature,
but did not recollect that she ever executed or acknowledged
the deed in question, and denied that it was ever explained to
her. The notary, being called as a witness by the appellees,
testified that in taking her acknowledgment he asked her if
she had read over the deed and understood its contents, and if
she willingly signed, sealed and delivered it, without any compulsion on the part of her husband, and wished not to retract
it, to all which she answered in the affirmative; that he did
not otherwise explain the deed to her, and did not read it himself; and that he did not think it necessary to explain a deed
if the party was already acquainted with its contents.
The appellant's signature being admitted, and there being
no proof of fraud or duress in taking or procuring her acknowledgment, the extrinsic evidence was, for the reasons and upon
VOL. c0xxH-20

OCTOBER TERAI,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

the authorities before stated, incompetent to impeach the
notary's certificate as to the manner in which .he had performed his duty.
The result is that the appellant shows no ground for reversing the principal decree, and it only remains to consider her
claim to rents and profits. This claim consists of two parts:
First. For rents received, with the consent of Hitz, by
Keyser as receiver, appointed by the comptroller of the currency, of the national bank, from the time of his appointment
as such receiver in October, 1878, to the date of the decree of
the court below in special term, December 15, 1881. But it
appears that the moneys so received were paid b him into the
treasury of the United States, subject to the order of his superior officer, the comptroller of the currency, as required by
§ 5234 of the Revised Statutes, and were distributed by the
comptroller among the creditors of the bank. They were.
The. fore rightly treated by the court below as not to be accounted for in this cause.
Second. For rents received by Keyser under his appointment as receiver by the decree of the cburt in special term on
December 15, 1881, and paid by him into the registry of the
court, pursuant to that decree, from its date until its reversal
in general term on December 11, 1883. It is argued for the
appellant that by the rule affirmed in Teal v. Walker, 111 U. S.
242, a mortgagee is not entitled to rents and profits until he
has been lawfully put in possession of the land; and that Kevser, having been admitted into possession by Hitz only, cannot
hold the rents and profits against Mrs. Hitz. The conclusive
answer to this argunent is that the accruing tents were not
received and held by Keyser by virtue of an agreement with
Hitz; but the court, through Keyser as its receiver, took possession of these rents in order to preserve them for the party
who should ultimately prevail in the suit. When it was afterwards adjudged that the first deed of trust, and the debt,
thereby secured, which Keyser's original bill sought to enforce, had been released and discharged, and that the second
deed of trust was valid as against Mrs. Hitz; and the sum
obtained for the land at a sale under the power contained in

COLORADO COAL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

this deed proved insufficient, by more than the whole of the
fund in court, to pay the debt of Hitz to Jenks, secured by this
deed; it was rightly held that Mrs. Hitz had no right as against
Jenks to any part of this fund. This view disposes of the
case, independently of the application of part of the find to
the payment of taxes accrued during the pendency of-this suit;
and even if the rents originally belonged to Mrs. Hitz, and not
to her husband as ten-ant by the curtesy, which is by no means
clear.
.itz v. "Vational.itetropolitan Bank, 111 U. S. 722.
Decrees fflrmred.

COLORADO COAL AND IRON COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAT FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.

STATES FOR

Argued November 2, 1887.-Decided November 21, 187.

To a bill in equity to cancel a patent of land from the United States to a
preamptor, solely on the gouid thiat there was no actual settlement and
improvement on the land; as falsely set out in affidavits in support of the
preEmption claim, the defence of a bona Jde purchaser without notice is
perfect.
In a suit by the United States to cancel a patent of public land the burden
of producing the proof and establishing the fraud is on the Government,
from which it is not relieved although the proposition which it is bound
to establish may be of a negative nature.
When a plaintiff's right of action is grounded on a negative allegation,
which is an essential element in his case, or which involves a charge of
criminal neglect of duty or fraud by an official, the burden is on him to
prove that allegation, the legal presumption being in favor of the party
charged.
In a proceeding in equity against an innocent purchaser to set aside a patent
of public land for fraud in which it is charged that an officer of the
United States, who was concerned in its issue, participated, the burden
of establishing his title is not cast upon the defendant by raising a suspicion, however strong, of the alleged fraud and wrongdoing of the
officer, if the officer could have been examined and was not.
In this case the United States sought to cancel a number of patents to preemptors, the lands having passed into the hands of an innocent purchaser,
on the ground that there were no actual settlements and improvemonts,

