OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Cas-e.

WHITE v. BARBER.
SAME v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE
NORTHERNI

UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

Argued November 17, 1887.-Decided December 5,1887.

A bona fide contract for the actual sale of grain, deliverable within a specified future month, the only option in which is an option in the seller to
deliver it at any time within such month, is not a gambling contract,
within the meaning of ยง 130 of chapter 38 of the Revised Statutes of
Illinois. (Iurd's ed. of 1883, p. 394; do. of 1885, p. 405.)
W. claimed to recover from B., by a suit in equity, money which he had put
into the hands of B., as a broker, to be used by him in transactions which
W. alleged were wagering contracts, because they were sales of wheat
in regard to which both W. and B. did not intend there should be any
delivery of the wheat: Held, that what W. did in connedtion with the
transactions was inconsistent with such claim; that B. had no such
understanding; that the sales of wheat were lawful; and that W. was
not entitled to recover the money which B. had paid out.
B. having paid out the money in settlement of the sales according to the
rules of the board of trade of Chicago, was not a" winner " of the money
from W., within the meaning of ยง 132 of chapter 38 of the Revised Statutes of Illinois. (Ilurd's ed. of 1883, p. 394; do. of 1885, p. 405.)
Moreover, as W. set up as the ground of recovery that the transactions
were gambling transactions, as between him and B., he could not recover
back the money.

THE case, as stated by the court, was as follows:
The first one of these cases is an action at law brought on
the 10th of May, 1883, by James B. White against George
X. Barber, in the Superior Court of Cook County, Illinois.
The declaration demanded the sum of $15,000, and declared
on the common counts. The defendant pleaded 'non aswmsit. In June, 1883, the cause was removed by the defendant
into the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern
District of Illinois. At the trial, in February, 1884, there
was a verdict for the defendant, followed by a judgment for
him, to review which the plaintiff has brought a writ of error.

WHITE v. BARBER.
Statement of the Case.

There was a bill of exceptions, the whole of which is in substance as follows:
The plaintiff introduced the following evidence. James B.
White, the plaintiff, "testified, that now, and during the time
in question, he resided at Fort Wayne, Indiana, engaged in
the business of dealing in general merchandise; that, in 1879
and prior thereto, one A. S. Maltman, of Chicago, acted as
his agent in purchasing and forwarding merchandise of various kinds; that, about September, 1879, desiring to do some
trading on the board of trade, Chicago, I asked Maltman to
recommend some good responsible broker on the board of
trade, through whom I could do business; that Maltman recommended the defendant, who then, and during the time in
question, was a broker residing in Chicago and doing business
on the board of trade; that thereupon I commenced trading
on the board, sending my orders at first to Maltman, who
communicated them to the defendant; that, about December,
1879, I came to Chicago, made the acquaintance of defendant,
and thereafter did business directly with him; that I continued to do business with defendant during the years 1879,
1880, 1881, and 1882, buying and selling on the board, through
the defendant, as broker, corn, wheat, oats, pork, and other
commodities, and that, about April 19th, 1882, I had a settlement with defendant, in which all previous dealings were adjusted; that up to this time the transactions which I had
made through defendant on the board amounted to $105,00o
in 1879; $1,718,000, in 1880; $640,000, in 1881, and $672,000.
in 1882; that, in November or December, 1879, and at other
times prior to the settlement in April, 1882, I had conversations with the defendant in which I told defendant that I was
a merchant in Fort Wayne, and did not want it known that I
was engaged in speculating on the board of trade in Chicago.
as it might affect my credit, and that the account could be
kept in the name of A. S. Maltman; that I considered it a
hazardous business, but was willing to gamble provided I
could have a fair show; that I wanted my deals placed with
responsible parties, so that I could get my money when I
made it; that I didn't want any of the property, but meant

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

simply to do a gambling business; that defendant told me
(plaintiff) that he knew what I wanted; that Maltman had
explained my situation and business; that he would deal only
with responsible parties, and the deals should be settled so as
to get the profits or losses; that defendant told me (plaintiff)
that not one bushel in a million that was bought and sold on
the board was legitimate business; that a few of the large
houses did some legitimate business, but most of it was
simply trading in differences; that he (defendant) did nothing
but business of the latter kind; that he dealt mostly for himself; that he did a good deal of 'scalping,' deals madt and
closed the same day, on the turn of the market; that he did
not let his deals r'un over night; that, up to April, 1882, I
(plaintiff never delivered or- received any of the property so
sold or bought, nor was anything ever said by defendant to
me about receiving or delivering the property or maling
arrangements to do so; that, from time to, time, defendant
rendered statements to me (plaintiff) showing the deals made,
the price per bushel, or, in case of pork, the price per 100 lbs.,
at which the commodity was bought and- sold, the difference
in ,dollars and cents,-the commissions charged, and the total
debit or credit passed to my account; that all the deals made
were in form contracts for future delivery, in which the seller
had the option of delivering at any time during some future
month; that, up to April, 1882, all trades made by defendant
for me (plaintiff) had been settled or closed by counter-trades
prior to the month in which delivery could be made; up to
April 19, 1882, rno commodities had been delivered to or received on these trades, nor had any suggestion or requirement
on the part of Ir. Barber to deliver been made; that defendant never reported to me the names of the parties with whom
trades were made on my account, and that I never knew or
inquired who such parties were; that, after the settlement in
April, I commenced selling wheat for July delivery, and, by
the last of Iay, had sold, through defendant, 100,000 bushels
for that delivery, which are the trades in question in this case;
that there was a corner in July wheat, and the price was
forced uptn
or twelve cents; that, .on the last of July, I

WHITE v. BARBER.
Statement of the Case.

came to Chicago, had an interview with defendant in the
morning, in which he (defendant) proposed to make a tender
of No. 2 red winter wheat, the kind sold being No. 2 spring
wheat; that No. 2 red winter is intrinsically more valuable
than No. 2 spring, but that, on the last of July, the former
stood at 98 cents per bushel and the latter at $1.35 to $1.37;
that I (plaintiff) knew of the tender, and I did not object;
that I met defendant later in the day, and was informed by
him that lie had borrowed warehouse receipts for ten thousand bushels No. 2 red winter wheat, and had made a tender
of the same to the several parties to whom he had sold the
-wheat, and that such tender was in every case declined, and
that said tender was made under the following rules of the
board of trade, viz.: ' On contracts for grain for future delivery the tender of the higher grade of the same kind of grain
as the one contracted for shall be deemed sufficient, provided
the higher grade of grain tendered shall not be of a color or
quality that will depreciate the value of the other,'if mixed.'
"Prior to December, 1879, I bought, through defendant,
100,000 bushels of corn for December delivery. I came to
Chicago and defendant told me the deal had gone against me
$4500, and he said I had to close it that day. The loss was
that amount, and I paid it that day. No corn was delivered
on either side. In January, 1880, I sold, through Barber,
20,000 bushels of wheat. My profit was $400. I did not tn.ke
the profit, but sold more, and the deal went against me $2000,
and I paid it up. I then commenced buying, and made $600
on March wheat bought in January. I commenced selling
wheat in March, 1880, and made a good deal of money for a
few months; recovered losses in April and commenced selling
May wheat. The May options took a sudden start up, and I
lost $8000, and I paid it. It was expressly stated by me to
Barber that I wanted no property. He knew that. ite said,
' Certainly, I know that,' and that the deals should be settled
on the margins - on the profits. Up to April, 1882, nothing
had been delivered by me or received by me, nor bad there
been any suggestion or requirement on defendant's part to
deliver made; on the other hand, it was never expected to

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

handle the property, but merely to trade in the different deals.
'Up to the close of the July deal, 1882, no demand had been
made on me by Barber for the delivery of wheat or corn, or
any other commodity.
"That I received the following statement of account from
defendant about the day of its date (which was read in evidence):
"'CHIAGO, Oct.

30th, '82.

"'A. S. M1altman (J. B. W.) in acc't with G. M. Barber,
1882.

Cr.

July

1. By balance
3. " draft.
Sept. 11. " profit as per statement rend.
12. "
" " "
"
(
27. "
" " "
"
Oct. 26. "
"
" "
"
"

.

.
.

$12,000 00
,000 00
931 25
2,018 75
318 75
300 00

"'DEIT.

July 31. To loss as per statement rend.

Aug. 11.

"

Sept. 12.

"

"

"

"

"

"

draft

Oct. 27. "loss as per statement rend.
30.

draft
To balance
"

$2,668 75
100 00
3,000 00

400 00
987 50
11,412 50

$18,568 ,5 818,568 75
Oct. 30. By balance, being diff. between price

$11,412 50

"' I have 100 'MJuly spring wh't sold for you and the settling price of same as fixed by board of trade (1.35), including
corns., ic.'
"That the item of $12,000 balance in said account consisted
of money advanced and paid to the defelidant; that the item
'July 3d, by draft $3000,' consisted of $3000 money paid the
defendant by means of a draft. Plaintiff testified further that
on April 2d, 1883, I served the following notice upon the
defendant, by delivering to him a copy thereof ; the defendant

W=HITE v. BARBER.
Statement of the Case.

read the notice, admitted he had the money in his hands, but
declined to pay it over.
"The notice was offered in evidence, and is as follows:
"'To G. ALM.
Barber, Esq.:
"' In a statement made by you, dated October 30th, 1882,
of deals made on my account on the board of trade, Chicago,
you acknowledge a balance in your hands of $11,412.50 in my
favor, being, so the statement says, the difference between
price you sold 100 MxJuly wheat for me and the selling price
of same as fixed by the board of trade, $1.35, including your
commission of -1cent; now you are hereby notified that I
claim all contracts for sale of said wheat to be illegal and void,
and forbid you to pay over any part of said money or balance
to any one, and I further demand the immediate payment
thereof to myself.
"' Dated Chicago, April 2d, 1883.

JTAnms 13. Wnml.'

"On cross-examination plaintiff testified, that, during all the
time he traded through defendant, lxialtman continued to some
extent to act as his agent in the business with defendant; that
he received some profits debited to him in the statement
offered in evidence; that defendant complied with his orders,
so far as he knows; thht he did not think defendant had any
thing to do with the corner in wheat; that he (plaintiff) had
nothing to do with the appointment of a committee by the
board to fix a selling price for July wheat; that he knew
what was going on, and talked with A. Mxi. Wright and other
members of the board of trade about the deal, but did not
enter into any agreement or arrangement with the other
brokers similarly situated to the defendant in regard to legal
proceedings to prevent the consummation of the corner; did
not employ counsel on behalf of defendant, or authorize any
steps to be taken in his name; that he (plaintiff) was an outsider and was not recognized in that matter; that he did not
agree to pay attorney's fees, but expected he would have to
do so, and did after the litigation was over; that he knew a
bill was filed; that the matter was contested and decided by

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

the Supreme Court in favor of the comerers. The litigation
was after a committee apnointed by the board had fiLed the
selling price at $1.35.
"In the progress of the case the plaintiff testified further,
among other things: I left it for Mr. Barber to put the contracts in form when I wished him, to buy or sell. I understood that he would go on the board of trade and either buy
or sell, and I understood that he did go on the board of trade
and buy and sell according to my orders. There was no disobedience of my orders, so far as I know. I have no complaint to make on the score of non-observance of my orders.
I knew that while we thought the corner in July wheat was
about to culminate, buying wheat at Milwaukee or elsewhere
to fill orders i as talked about -a great many talked of it but it was considered that parties who attempted that got
beaten, because they simply droived the grade on them. It
is possible I may have talked with Maltman about the possibility of buying wheat in ilwaukee to fill my brders, but I
never dreamed of it. I said some were doing it; some did do
it. It was generally talked that some people had done it, and
as to the propriety of doing it; it was only three cents, I think,
to bring it from Milwaukee here, and twelve, fifteen, or twenty
cents, somewhere along there, lower a bushel, and they could
fill their contracts here with it and not lose so much as they
would in the extortion of the corner. I might have said,
'Well, it could be done,' 'I wish I could do it,' or something
Qf that kind. I knew Barber, being a member of the board of
trad( and making contracts on the board for me, would be
obliged to observe the rules of the board. I understood there
was a rule that one must keep his margin good. I told him
to buy, and told him to sell, and told him to sell out, and
when to cover and when to close trades, and he observed my
orders. If there was. any corner it was not my fault, as I was
selling, and it was not from Barber's fault, so far as I know.
After he made the tender of red winter wheat on the 31st of
July, 1882, I approved of what he did. I went to see Mr. A.
M. Wright, who was one of the parties proposing to file a bill
to question the propriety or binding force of a finding of a

WHITE v. BARBER.
Statement of the Case.

committee of the board of trade fixing the settling price for
July wheat. I saw published a communication in the paper,
an interview with the reporter, in regard to this corner, or at
least he published a communication and I went to see him and
consulted with him about it. The complaint was that the
price of July wheat was put too high on the 31st of July.
Barber had spoken about the contracts being under the board
of trade rules. After the culmination of the corner I got a
copy of the rules -printed copy. He showed me the rules
under which the committee was appointed. I think the rule
is on page 51 of Rules of 1882, ยง 3. Mr. Wright believed it
was a legal tender; so did I. I believed that ' red' would be
a good tender. I went to see counsel; it was John E. Burke.
H=e was a lawyer who had charge of what he called contested
cases. There were-some thirty-two members of the board in
contested cases, and Mr. Barber joined in with them. I footed
the lawyer's bill; that was all I did. I told Mr. Burke that I
was one of the fellows that got bled in this affair, and I did
not want to stand it if he could help it. He was seemingly as
much out of humor abeut it as I was, as far ais the situation
was concerned - the unfairness of it. When it came to pay
for the expense of those legal proceedings, the bills were presented to Mr. Barber and Mr. Maltman, and I told them to
pay them, and I would pay them back; and I did. I went
with Mr. Wright to Mr. Burke. Mr. Barber was away from
home at the time. I told Mr. Burke the situation I was in,
and he said, 'Well, when your broker comes here, have him
come up and see me.' It was understood that M r. Barber was
my broker or commission merchant, and, when he returned,
he went and joined in with the others, to contest this thing.
I knew how the matter progressed after that. It. was contested in the courts in some formal way, to get into the
Supreme Court. There was a ffro foarm decision in the court
here, and the case was taken to the Supreme Court and was
there determined in favor of the cornerers. That was after
the committee of the board of trade appointed under these
rules had been appointed. The case went to the Supreme
Court. We simply had to have patience to wait until they

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

determined it. They determined it about a year ago last January - that is, in January, 1883 - before I had served notice

on him. In most cases where I bought or sold I closed before
the end of the month in some way - either sold out or covered it. If I bought wheat of a man for the month of July
he had the whole month of July in which to tender to me.
During the whole of the month of July I had an option at
what time I would deliver. The buyer has to close his trade
the first of the month, and the seller has to the last of the
.month, or, if he pleases, he can close between times.
"George 11. Barber, defendant, who, being first duly sworn,
testified as follows: That, after the notice was served upon
hhn,by plaintiff, in April, 1883, he paid over to the various
parties to whom he had owed the wheat in question, the sum
of $11,412.50, less the amount of his commissions, which were
$250; and, on cross-examination, that he made such payment
because charges had been preferred against him, and he had
to pay or be suspended from the board.
"Plaintiff here rested his case, and the defendant, to maintain the issues on his part, introduced the following:
"George K. Barber, defendant, who, being recalled, testified
that he was a commission merchant and member of the board
of trade; that he was employed by Maltman to trade for
plaintiff on the board of trade - to make trades there; that,
in executing the orders of plaintiff, he dealt with other
members of the board ; that he did not seek commission
business, but dealt mostly on his own account; that once,
when White was hanging on to a deal which had gone against
him, witness told him that witness never hung on to a deal,
but, in his own trades, generally calculated, when he went
home at night, to have an equal amount bought and sold,
so that lie would not be affected by the fluctuations of the
market, but did not say to _Mr. White that White's business
would be conducted in that way. Witness had to be governed
by White's orders, which were to do so and so; did not
recollect. plaintiff saying that he wanted to gamble on the
board; that the manner of making trades on the board is as
follows: If the order was to sell, he would go on the board

WHITE v. BARBER.
Statement of the Case.

and offer to sell so much wheat at such a price, and some
other broker would accept the offer, or some other broker
might offer to buy, and he (defendant) would accept the offer,
and thereupon both parties made a memorandum of the trade
on a card, without comparison; that such memorandum was
usually as follows, (referring to a card,) this being one of the
trades in question: '10 M, July, H. G. Gaylord, 1.25-, J. B. W.;'
that this was the only writing made in the hurry of business
on the board; that '10 MI'meant 10,000 bushels; 'July' meant
for delivery in July, at the seller's option; that No. 2 spring
wheat was understood; that 'IH. G. Gaylord' was the name
of the broker to whom the sale was made- that '1.25*'
denoted the price, and the initials 'J.. B. W.' indicated that
the sale was on account of plaintiff; that their trades were
afterwards, on the same day, entered on the books of the
respective parties, and their clerks went round and compared
and checked them off; that this was the case with the sales
of 100,000 bushels for delivery at seller's option during July,
1882 (the deals under consideration); that he had no different
agreement with any of the persons with whom he dealt for
plaintiff; that the grain was to be delivered or received; that
'puts' and 'calls,' or mere options to buy or sell, were not
recognized on the board; that it is customary where a commodity is sold to and bought of the same broker, upon different orders, for the brokers to settle their trades by paying
the difference, as the case may be. (And a rule of the board
of trade allowing such transfers was read in evidence.) That
he never told plaintiff that trading on the board was illegitimate, but may have told him many other of the trades were
settled up, or offset, without delivery. The volume of transactions was too large to make delivery practicable in all cases.
As to the conversation between witness and White, November
30, 1879, witness stated he believed it was the first time he
met White, for whom there were then to mature contracts to
buy 100,000 bushels corn, and witness told White that the
chances were strong that the corn would be delivered, and he
must either furnish the money to pay for it or order him to
sell it, so that he would have a place to put it, when delivered,
VOL. cxxm-26

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

or could make arrangements to transfer it; that, in the contracts for Mr. White, witness had received and delivered
property; had received as high as 60,000 bushels in a day;
that, at the request of plaintiff, he did not settle the deals for
July, but made default as to the 100,000 bushels. Mr. Maltman, for Mr. White, gave me the draft of $5000, June 12, 1882.
I was required to give my word that I would not buy in the
wheat unless by his orders, but would allow him to default,
and Maltman told me that White said he would settle -let
the committee fix the price and he would settle that way, if
possible, if he did not decide to buy in the wheat. White sent
witness a telegram from Fort Wayne, Aug. 5th, 1882, as
follows: ' Don't cancel the July trades. My attorneys here
believe the tender we made is good and can be enforced. J.
B. White.' (Telegram read in evidence.) There were about
thirty other brokers who made default; that a committee was
appointed in accordance with the rules of the board, who
fixed the settling price at $1.35; that thereupon the brokers
filed bills in court, to enjoin the board from suspending them
for not settling at the price fixed b3 the committee; that he
returned to the city about September 10th, 1882, after being
absent a month or more, and was informed by Maltman that
the plaintiff had made arrangements for him to join in the
injunction proceedings; that the next day he went to the
office of J. E. Burke, the attorney for the defaulting brokers,
and signed and swore to a bill for the purpose above stated
that said bill was filed; that afterwards the Supreme Court
rendered a decision adverse to the prayer of the bill, and the
bill was dismissed; that plaintiff was informed of the result,
and paid the attorney's fees and damages in the case; that
plaintiff did not suggest the making of any further contest;
that at the time plaintiff made the demand upon him, April
2d, 1883, the money in question was under his control, except
$6700, which had been deposited in the bank as margins, on
account of some of the Ieals; that he frequently received and
delivered grain; had received as high as 60;000 bushels in a day;
that he could'not recall any trade in which he bought for Mr.
White where he received any commodity, but had no doubt

WHITE v. BARBER.
Statement of the Case.

at all in all his tradings he did receive a good deal, but could
not recall any particular instance. There was a certainty that
delivery would be made, unless, after the trades were made, I
made offsets. I always do get more or less; .lo not expect it
will all be delivered. I expect I can offset trdes with a good
part of it. When the 100,000 bushels in question were sold,
witness expected it would be delivered; that he would buy
here in the market, the largest grain market in the world.
"Thomas W. Burns, being duly sworn, testified for the defendant, that, in 1882, he was a member of the firm of Ulrich,
Busch & Co., and a broker on the board of trade; that, on
Mlay 17, 1882, he bought of defendant, for his firm '5, July,
wheat, at 1.241,' No. 2 spring wheat (5000 bushels); that the
contract was made in the regular way; that there was no
secret understanding or agreement that it was not to be executed, or that it was to be'settled; that the wheat was to be
delivered at any time in July, at the seller's option.
"Abel T. Bliss, being duly sworn, testified for defendant,
that he was a member of the board -of trade, and was doing
business as a commission merchant in 1882; that in lay be
bought 10,000 bushels July wheat (No. 2 spring, deliverable at
seller's option at any time during July), of defendant, which he
never received; the wheat was to be delivered in July, at the
seller's option; that there was no agreement that the wheat
was not to be delivered, or that it was to be settled; that he
certainly expected to get the wheat.
"It was admitted that the other brokers to whom defendant
had sold the wheat in question would testify in a similar way,
as to the trades with them, respectively.
"Alexander S. Maltman, being sworn, testified for defendant, that he was of the firm of A. S. Maltman & Co., and oras
engaged in the commission business in Chicago; that he acted
as agent for plaintiff, in his transactions with defendant; iat
he never told defendant that the transactions were to be of a
gambling or fictitious ciaracter; that his instructions from
plaintiff were for the most part contained in telegrams and
letters, and these he gave or showed to defendant; that the
transactions were quite continuous; that, in July, 1882, he

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

had several conversations with plaintiff as to Barber defaulting; that, when the price was up in the thirties, plaintiff was
unwilling to advance more margins unless defendant would
agree to default, and that he procured such an agreement
from the defendant at the *request of plaintiff; that, after
default had been made, plaintiff said he was willing to leave it
with the committee to be appointed by the board; that he
went with plaintiff to the office of Burke, the attorney; that
plaintiff went there to get out an injunction to prevent the
board of trade from suspending defendant; that he paid out
for plaintiff on account of the said suit $283.50, which plaintiff
had repaid him.
"George F. Morcom, who, being duly sworn, testified for
defendant, that he was of the firm of A. S. Maltman & Co.;
that he heard plaintiff 'say that the tender of No. 2 red winter
wheat was good; that, according to their own rules, they were
bound to accept it; that plaintiff said that he desired Mr.
Barber to default on the deals and let the matter go to a committee and let them fix the price, and said that he would see
that Mr. Barber was protected.
"Deville C. Bannister, being duly sworn, testified for defendant, that, during the time in question, he was book-keeper
for defendant; that plaintiff, at the time the injunctions were
being obtained, went to Mr. Burke's office to see about the
matter, and said he wished he would take the matter into his
own hands; that Mr. Barber did not pay over the money until
it was necessary to do so in order to save himself from being
suspended from the board.
"The bill in chancery above referred to, being a bill filed in
the Superior Court of Cook County, by George M. Barber, in
the interest of or for the benefit of the plaintiff, on the 11th
of September, 1882, making the Board of Trade of the City of
Chicago party defendant, was, together with a copy of the
injunction issued in pursuance of the writ, read in evidence.
It set forth certain sections of the charter of the board of
trade, and referred to a copy of the rules of said board in force
January 1st, 1882, making such copy a part of the bill as an
exhibit, and referred also to sales of No. 2 spring wheat, made

WHITE v. BARBER.
Statement of the Case.

by defendant for delivery in July, 1882, and alleged that there
was an unlawful combination to prevent the complainant and
others situated like him from fulfilling their contracts, &c., and
set forth a certain rule of the board of trade providing, among
other things, for the appointment of a committee to determine
disputes as to the price of property, in case of supposed excessive claims for damages being made under contracts, on default,
&c., and showed that application for the appointment of such
committee was made with reference to the defaults made upon
contracts for delivery of No. 2 spring wheat in July, 1882, and
showed that the committee determined the price for settlement
at $1.35 per bushel; and the decision of the committee was
drawn in question by the bill upon various grounds, not drawing in question the validity of the contracts, but questioning
whether the board of trade had power to compel members to
abide the decision of such committee, and also questioning the
regularity of the appointment of the committee, and charging
that, in the conduct of the hearing had before the committee,
and in the finding of the committee, the spirit of the'rules of
the board of trade was violated by putting it in the power of
persons who had been concerned in cornering the market to
get excessive damages, &c. The bill pointed out certain rules
of the board of trade under which, in case a member failed to
comply promptly with the terms of any business contract or
obligation, or failed to satisfy, adjust, and settle the contract,
or failed to comply with or fulfil any award of the committee
of arbitration, or committee of appeals, made in conformity
with the rules, regulations, and by-laws of the association, he
should, upon admission or proof of the delinquency before the
board of directors, be subject to be suspended from all privileges of the association, &c.; and an injunction to prevent
suspension or expulsion, and especially to restrain and enjoin
the board from accepting, treating, or recognizing the decision
of the committee aforesaid as in force, or as having any effect,
was prayed for by the bill. Such injunction was ordered, and
was issued September 11, 1882, and was served on the board.
There was also introduced a certified transcript of the order of
said superior court, made on the 11th of October, 1882, dis-

OCT'OBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

solving the injunction, and assessing damages on account of
the issuing of the same, but showing, that, by stipulation, the
cause was to abide the final result of the case of Aner _Y.
WV"ight et al. v. Ie Board of Trade of the City of Cicago,
in the appellate court or in the Supreme Court, and that, in
case of the reversal of the decree in that case, then the decree
in the Barber case should be set aside on his motion, and the
injunction in his favor was continued. This decree was tc be
regarded as final in case the decree in the Wright case should
be affirmed, except that, in such case, the injunction was to be
dissolved, on defendant's motion. The transcript further
showed, that, on the 16th of April, 1883, the said superior
court, in the said chancery suit of Barber, vacated the order
to continue the injunction, and the bill thereupon stood dismissed under the previous order of the court, this being because
the Supreme Court had, in the case of Wright, affirmed the
decree of the superior court dismissing his bill. It appeared
that, after the decision of the Wright case, inquiry was made
of the plaintiff as to whether he wished anything further done
in reference to the prosecution of the chancery suit in the name
of Barber, and he replied, ' Further appearance not necessary.'
"It further appearing, from the testimony, that the plaintiff
paid the damages which were assessed against Barber on account of the issuing of the injunction, the testimony of the
witness Barber tended to show, that, at the tinme of the delivery by defendant to the plaintiff of the statement aforesaid,
dated October 30th, 1882, the balance of $11,412.50 therein
mentioned, that amount being the difference between the price
at which the one hundred thousand bushels of wheat were sold
for July delivery, and $1.35 per bushel, the settling price so fixed
by the committee -that h-, the difference over and above the
commissions of L of a cent per bushel charged by the defendant -was to remain with the defendant, to await the action
of the court upon the aforesaid bill in equity, seeking to impeach the decision of the committe fixing the settling price,
and that, after that matter had been litigated in the courts,
through the suit so brought in favor of Wright, which was
made a test case, complaints were made before the board of

WHITE v. BARBER.
Statement of the Case.

directors of the board of trade, against the defendant, on account of default on his part in performing or settling the contracts for the sale of the said one hundred thousand bushels of
wheat, notice of one or more of which complaints were given
by defendant to plaintiff, and the defendant appeared before
the directors to make defence, but did not succeed in making
any defence, and, being about to be suspended unless he settled,
did thereupon settle by paying according to the decision of
the committee declaring $1.35 per bushel to be the settling
price, so that the moneys paid out by defendant, together with
his commission, exhausted the said sum of $11,412.50 ; and this
was prior to the commencement of this suit, but after the
notice of April 2d, 1883, above set forth; the testimony tended
to show that this money was left in defendant's hands by M r.
White, when the aforesaid statement of account stating said
balance, &c., was given by defendant to the plaintiff, and was
so left for the protection of the defendant, as to the contracts,
with reference to the litigation arising as to whether the decision of the committee should be allowed to be binding in regard to the settling price."
On the foregoing evidence, the plaintiff claimed to recover
the before named sum of $11,412.50, as money placed by him
in the hands of the defendant for the purpose of dealing in
gambling contracts at the Chicago Board of Trade, and which
contracts, it was asserted, were made illegal by a statute of
Illinois.
The court charged the jury among other things, as follows:
"The question of !act for you to determine, under the proof
is, whether these dealings made by the plaintiff on the board
of trade, through the defendant, as his broker, were gambling
contracts, within the meaning of the law. The statute of
the State of Illinois upon the subject I will now read you:
Section 130 of c. 38" (Rev.Stat. of Illinois, by Hurd, ed.
of 1883, p. 394; ed. of 1885, p. 405,) "reads as follows: ' Whoever contracts to have or give to himself or another the option
to sell or buy, at a future time, any grain, or other commodity,
stock of any railroad or other company, or gold, or forestalls
the market by spreading false rumors to influence the price

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

of commodities therein, or corners the market, or attempts to
do so in relation to any of such commodities, shall be fined
not less than $10 nor more than $1000, or confined in the
county jail not exceeding one year, or both; and all contracts
made in violation of this section shall be considered gambling
contracts, and shall be void.' The plaintiff contends that the
contracts in question, made by the defendant for him and in
his behalf, were gambling contracts, within the meaning of
this law. The question then arises, What kind of contracts
are prohibited by this statute? You will notice the language
is, 'Whoever contracts to have or give to himself or another
the option to sell or buy, at a future time '-an option to sell
or buy at a future time. The courts have construed to some
extent the meaning of this statute, and I will read from a case
decided by the Supreme Court of this State the construction
which is there given upon it: ' The evidence in this record is
by no means conclusive that the contracts for grain, made by
defendants for plaintiff, were unlawful. They were made in
the regular course of business, and, for anything that appears
in this record, they could have been enforced in the courts.
It is true, they were time contracts- that is, the seller had
all of the month in which to deliver the grain; but the testimony of Wolcott is, they were bona JX& contracts for the
actual purchase of the grain. The only option the seller had
was as to the time of delivery. The obligation was, to deliver
the grain at all events, but it was the sell6r's privilege or option
to deliver it at any, time before the closing of business on the
last day of the month. Time contracts, made in good faith,
for the future delivery of grain or any other commodity, are
not prohibited by the common law nor any statute of this
State, nor by any policy beneficial to the public welfare.
Such a restraint would limit commercial transactions to such
a degree as could not but be prejudicial to the best interests
of trade. Our present statute was not in force when these
dealings were had; consequently, the rights of the parties
are not affected by it. What the law prohibits, and what is
deemed detrimental to the public interests, is, speculations in
differences in market values, called, perhaps, in the peculiar

WHITE v. BARBER.
Statement of the Case.

language of the dealers, "puts" and "calls," which simply
means a privilege to deliver or receive the grain, or not, at
the seller's or buyer's option. It is against such fictitious
gambling transactions, we apprehend, the penalties of the
law are levelled."' The above extract is taken from the
opinion of the Supreme Court of Illinois in WVolcott v. ffeatli,
78 Ill. 433. The Circuit Court then proceeded in its charge
as follows: " ow, the question is, in the light of the testimony in this case, whether the contracts in question in this
case were contracts to buy or sell at a future day, or whether
they were simply absolute sales, in which the seller had the
entire month, the month specified, in which to perform his
contract. This court has found it necessary, on several occasions, to construe this statute, and has held, with the case
which I have just read, that the statute is levelled against
what are called puts and calls, that is, the right or the privilege which a party may have to buy or sell of you at a future
day, not an absolute agreement now to sell, but where one
man pays another $5 or $10 for the privilege of delivering to
him 1000, 5000, or 10,000 bushels of grain at a future time, or
pays him a similar amount for the privilege of buying or
accepting from him grain at a future time -a contract which
cannot be enforced in terms, because it is wholly at the option
of the party holding the option whether he will call for the
grain or not. This is what is termed a gambling contract,
or a put or call, or an option to buy or sell at a future time,
within the meaning of the Illinois statute."
The bill of exceptions further says: - And the court further
exl)lained to the jury that the 'option to buy or sell,' prohibited by ยง 130, c. 3,% of the Revised Statutes, means a privilege which the buyer or seller may or may not exercise at
his option, and that a contract by which the seller absolutely
agrees to deliver a certain commodity to the buyer within a
specified time, when the only option is as to the delivery
within a certain time, such as within the whole of some
month named, is not a gambling contract, within the meaning of this statute."
There were other instructions to the jury, the entire charge

OCTOBER T.ERAI,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

coveriag nearly seven printed pages of the record. The bill
of exceptions states that the plaintiff excepted to all of the
instructions given, and especially to those hereinbefore set
forth.
The second case above named is a suit in equity, brought on
July 24, 1S83, in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois,
by the Bank of British North America, a corporation of Great
Britain, against James B. White and George Ar. Barber. The
bill alleges that the bank has on deposit, in its office at Chicago, Illinois, $6700, standing to the credit of Barber, the same
having been deposited by him as security for certain trades or
deals in wheat with members of the board of trade of Chicago, the money having been turned over to the plaintiff by
the Merchants' Bank of Canada, to whose business at Chicago
the plaintiff succeeded; that White claims that said money
belongs to him, and claims that Barber, in depositing it, acted
merely as the agent of him, White; that, on April 2, 1883,
White made a demand upon the plaintiff for the money, and
forbade it to pay the money, or any part thereof, to any person except upon the order of him, White; that White had
commenced an action against the plaintiff to recover the
money; and that Barber had demanded of the plaintiff that
it should pay the money to him. The bill prays that the defendants may interplead and settle the controversy, and that
the plaintiff may be allowed to pay the money into court.
Both of the defendants appeared in the suit. White put in an
answer setting up that the $6700 was part of a larger sum of
money placed by him in the hands of Barber to be used by
Barber as margins in gambling contracts which Barber was to
make for him on the board of trade in Chicago; that Barber,
in pursuance of such employment, and in April, May, and
June, 1882, made certain ganbling contracts with members of
the board of trade, which contracts were ostensibly for the
sale of certain quantities of wheat by Barber to such members,
o be delivered at any time in July, 1882, at the option of the
pretended purchaser, but such pretended contracts were a mere
form and cover, and the real intention of all the parties was to
settle them by a payment of the difference between the price

WHITE 'v. BARBER.
Statement of the Case.

for which the wheat was sold and the market price of the same
when delivery thereof should be called; that Barber took
$6700 of the money of White, so placed in his hands, and
deposited the same with the Merchants' Bank of Canada, as
security for certain of such pretended contracts, being the
same $6700 turned over to the plaintiff by the Merchants'
Bank; and that, while the money was still in the possession
of the plaintiff, and on April 2, 1883, White notified both the
plaintiff and Barber not to pay the same to any one but
White.
Barber also answered the bill, and in his answer made the
following allegations: He was not the agent of White in depositing the $6700. As a commission merchant at Chicago,
he made certain sales and purchases of grain and pork, for
future delivery, at the instance and request of White, being,
as between himself and those with -whom he made the contracts, responsible for the performance of them on his part.
A large number of such transactions occmred in May, June,
July, August, September, and October, 1882. Barber was
doing business on the Boarn' of Trade of Chicago, of which he
was a member, and White was living at Fort Wayne, in Indiana. The contracts were made with reference to the rules and
regulations of the board of trade, and to the usages of business on that board; and, by those rules, the persons with
whom Barber made such contracts were authorized to demand
margins and deposits, as security for the performance of the
contracts by Barber, and in various instances such demands
were made, and it became necessary for Barber to make deposits for margins or security with reference to the contracts.
Those rules provided, that, on time contracts, purchasers
should have the right to require of sellers, as security, ten per
cent margins, based upon the contract price of the property
bought, and further security, from time to time, to the extent
of any advance in the market value above that price; also,
that sellers should have the right to require as security from
buyers, ten per cent margins on the contract price of the
property sold, and, in addition, any difference that might exist
or occur between the estimated value of said property and the

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

price of sale. The rules also provided, that securities or margins should be deposited either with the treasurer of the board
of trade, or with some bank authorized to receive the deposits.
The rules also prescribed the form of certificate to be used by
the-bank, which form was adopted by the Merchants' Bank of
Canada and by the plaintiff. In accordance with those rules,
the certificates showing the deposits were issued in duplicate
in each case, one being marked "original" and the other "duplicate," and both being marked "not negotiable or transferable." The certificates were not made with express reference
to any particular contract, and the deposits were subject to be
treated as security for the fulfilment of any contracts made
between the parties to the respective certificates, during the
time the deposit remained unpaid. During May, 1882, Barber,
at the instance and request of White, made contracts for the
sale and delivery by Barber to divers persons, members of such
board of trade, of large quantities of No. 2 spring wheat, for
delivery at seller's option during July, 1882, at certain prices
specified in the various contracts, ranging from $1.22- per
bushel to $1.25* per bushel, which wheat was to be delivered
in lots of 5000 bushels. White did not put Barber in funds to
buy wheat for delivery according to the contracts. While Barber remained liable upon the contracts, he was, from time to
time, called upon to deposit margins on account of the contracts, to secure their performance, and did, in accordance with
the rules of the board of trade, and in compliance with his
duties under the contracts, make deposits of money and procure certificAtes therefor from the Merchants' Bank of Canada.
The answer then gives the particulars of twelve different certificates for such deposits on various contracts, amounting in
the aggregate to $6700. The contracts for the delivery during
July, 1882, of No. 2 spring wheat were not performed by
White. The moneys deposited as margins were furnished by
Barber in large part from his own means, for the purpose of
keeping the contracts open, as was desired by White. Barber
also, in order to avoid loss by White and to protect the interests of White, made, before the close of July, 1882, a tender
of No. 2 red winter wheat under the contracts, which wheat

WHITE 9. BARBER.
Statement of the Case.

was of greater intrinsic value,, as Barber believed, than :No. 2
spring wheat; but the tender --as rejected by the purchasers,
on the ground that the wheat tendered -as not of the kind
and grade contracted to be delivered, nor such as, under the
rules of the board of trade, was necessary to be delivered.
The parties with whom the contracts had been made, and who
had the right to call for delivery, made large claims for damages against Barber, and insisted that the tender was irregular
and insufficient; and White desired Barber to object to the
payment of such claims, and to reduce the same, if he could.
With this object in view, Barber, at the instance of White,
filed a bill in chancery, in the Superior Court of Cook
County, on September 11, 18S2, against the board of trade,
seeking by the bill to impeach the regularity and fairness
of an award or decision of a committee which had been
appointed, under the rules of the board of trade, to determine the settlement price under contracts such as those
which were so made by Barber, and which committee had
determined that such settlement price should be $1.35 per
bushel. The bill also sought to restrain the board of trade
from enforcing such award or disciplining Barber on account
An injunction was tempoof non-compliance therewith.
rarily granted on the bill. The award made Barber li, ble
to pay, as damages, to the parties with whom he had made
the contracts, the difference between the contract price and
the settlement price of $1.35 per bushel. The Superior Court
of Cook County adjudged, in the suit, that Barber was not
entitled to any relief on account of any of the matters stated
in the bill, and the injunction was dissolved on April 16, 1883.
The bill was drawn up by counsel employed by White, White
knowing that if the injunction should be dissolved Barber
would be required to settle on the basis of the award of the
committee. With reference to that basis, White drew from
Barber, on October 30, 1882, $987.50, as an excess of money,
including profits, due to him from Barber after reserving
enough to pay damages at that tate. Prior to the bringing
of the suit in chancery, it was the right of the parties with
whom Barber had entered into the contracts, to have the

OCTOBER TERAI, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

moneys which had been deposited as margin or security under
the contracts, paid over to them on the order of the president
of the board of trade, they holding, respectively, duplicates
of the certificates; and Barber, on making default as to the
delivery, became amenable to discipline under the rules of the
board- of trade, for not complying with the terms of the contracts. One of those rules provided, that, when any member
of the association failed to comply promptly with the terms
of any business-contract or obligation, and failed to equitably
and*satisfactorily adjust and settle the same, he should, upon
admission or proof of such delinquency before the board of
directors, be by them suspended from all privileges of the
association until all his outstanding obligations to members of
the board of trade should be adjusted and settled. The parties who were entitled to delivery of the wheat under the contracts for delivery in July, 1882, were, by those rules, entitled
to settlement with Barber at the average market price of the
commodity on July 31, 1882, the day of the maturity of the
contracts, and the damage or loss due to such purchasers by
reason of the required settlement became thereupon immediately due and payable by Barber to such purchasers; but the
payment was delayed because of difference of opinion as to
the amount of damages, and in order to enable White to
obtain, if possible, a reduction of them; and tis was the
object of the suit in chancery against the board of trade. It
was also, under those rules, the right of such purchasers, after
a failure for three business days succeeding the maturity of
the contracts, to cause to be submitted to a select committee
of three members of the board any dispute between Barber
and such purchasers, with reference to any deposit of moneys
applicable to the contracts; and the decision of a majority of
the committee, reported to the president of the board, would
have determined in what manner and to whom the deposit
should be paid; and thereupon the president would have been
authorized by the rules, to make an order for the payment of
the deposit in accordance with the decision of the committee,
which order would have been a sufficient warrant to the bank
by which the certificates were issued, to pay the money in

WHITE v. BARBER.
Statement of the Case.

accordance with the order; but action before the board, as
against Barber, was postponed because of the injunction, and
the certificates of deposit for margin and security, so issue&,
having reference to such wheat contracts, were held over in
view of the injunction. After its dissolution, the payment of
the margins or security moneys represented by the certificates
was subject to be enforced under the rules of the board of
trade, and Barber was in danger of being suspended from the
privileges of the board because of the non-settlement of the
contracts. White had due notice of all the foregoing facts,
but failed to protect Barber or to give him any guarantee for
his protection. The liability to suspension from membership
of the board of trade was one of great consequence to Barber in a monetary point of view,,as well as with reference to
his standing and reputation as a merchant, for such suspension
would have operated as practically a forfeiture of his membership, so long as the contracts remained unsettled The fee
for membership was fixed by the rules of the board at
$10,000, and any permanent suspension of Barber from the
membership of the board would have caused a loss to him of
even more than $10,000, because it would have interfered with
his livelihood and business. He could not, consistently with
his rights or duties as a member of the board, defer an
adjustment or settlement of the contracts any longer than
was necessary to determine what he would, under the rules of
the board, be required to do in respect to such settlement. In
order to accommodate White as far as possible, Barber
delayed making settlement until after complaint was made
against him before the board in pursuance of its rules; and
he allowed the complaint to proceed to a hearing, at which
he attempted to make defence as to one of the contracts, set"tingup, among other matters, such tender of No. 2 red winter
wheat; but the board ruled against him and was about to
direct his suspension from membership unless he made settlement. Thereupon, on the 24th of April, 1883, he settled such
of the contracts as were then outstanding, maldng such settlement in accordance with the rules of the board, and, on his
making it, the deposits for margins and security, pertaining to

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Statement of the, Case.

the contracts, were liberated, and, on the return to the bank
of the original margin certificates, so issued by the Merchants'
Bank of Canada, the certificates being endorsed to the bank,
it gave to Barber credit for the moneys on his account as a
depositor in the bank. White caused Barber to make the
contracts and to become bound. for their performance, and
made it necessary for Barber to put up margins and security,
and thus placed it out of the power of Barber to control such
margins and security in any other way than according to the
rules of the board of trade, and also so involved Barber, in
causing him to become amenable to discipline by or suspension
from the board of trade, that White could not legally or
equitably revoke the authority of Barber to make settlement
of the contracts or pay over the moneys when it became necessary to settle the contracts. The contracts were legal, and
the provisions of the rules of the board of trade, applicable
thereto, were binding upon Barber, and were necessary and
proper to be considered with reference to his duties and rights,
as between himself and the other contracting parties, and as
between himself and White. Barber avers that it was his right
to pay damages or differences on default under the contracts,
when such damages became due according to the rules of the
board of trade ; that such right enured to him by direct
authority from White, when the contracts were made at the
instance of White and the moneys were paid or advanced to
Barber; and that thereafter there was no time when White
had any right or authority to revoke the power to pay over
the moneys, when, in the course of trade, or in accordance
with the rules of the board of trade, it became necessary to
pay them over, in making settlement of the contracts on
which White defaulted, and which it became necessary for
Barber to adjust, because he had become a party thereto at
the instance of White; that the contracts in question were
but a small part of the dealings which were had by White
through Barber, as his commission merchant, with various
members of the board of trade; that, in many of those
dealings, which were carried on contemporaneously with the
dealings in question, there was profit to White, and White

WHITE v. BARBER.
Statement of the Case.

received from Barber, on account thereof, large sums of
money, representing such profits; and that it would be inequitable for White to claim that he should be relieved at the
expense of Barber from the effects of the contracts for the
delivery of No. 2 spring wheat in July, 1882, which remained

open at the close of that month because of the non-fulfillment
thereof on- the part. of White, while White had received
profits from other contracts of a similar character, made for
him by Barber, which White chose to have settled and closed,
when the same resulted in profits which were to be paid to
White by Barber.
Replications were put into these two answers, and, in January, 1884, the suit was removed by Barber into the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois. Afterwards, it was stipulated that the money might
remain in the hands of the bank until the final disposition of
the cause, subject to like order by the court as if the money
were paid into the registry of the court, and an order was
made dismissing the bank from the litigation, as well in the
suit at law commenced against it by White, as in the inferpleader suit.
By a further stipulation, made in May, 1884, the testimony
taken in the suit at law before mentioned, of White against
Barber, to recover the $11,412.50, at the trial which took place
in February, 1884, was used and introduced by the party
taking the same, as his testimony on the trial of the suit in
equity. Such testimony consisted of the detailed examination
of the witnesses examined on the trial of the suit at law, and
of documentary testimony, the substance of which examinations and documentary testimony is given in the bill of exceptions in the suit at law, and is hereinbefore recited. To this
were added, in the suit in equity, the further depositions of
White and Barber, taken therein in May, 184. In these supplementary depositions, each party goes over with greater particularity the matters previously testified to by him, as set forth
in the bill of exceptions; but nothing is substantially added
throwing light upon the merits of the dispute. By the same
stipulation there was put in, as part of the testimony on behalf
vOL. cxxm-27

OCTOBER TERMT, 1887.
Citations for Defendant in Error.

of Barber, a copy of the proceedings and judgment in the suit
at law above mentioned, brought by White against Barber, to
recover the $11,412.50.
In May, 1884, a final decree was made in the suit in equity,
adjudging that Barber -vas entitled to the $6700, and ordering that it be paid to him. From tht decree White has
appealed to this court.
ir. E. Xt. .Vh'inde for plaintiff in error cited in both cases:
Tenney v. Foote, 95 Ill. 99; P ievkeing v. Cease, 79 Ill. 328;
Beveridge v. IHewitt, 8 Bradw. App. Ill. 467; Lyon v. Calbertson, 83 Ill. 33; Calderwocd v. JfeRe&, 11 Bradw. App. Ill.
543; 3T)ojth v. Phillips,89 Penn. St. 250; Barnardv. Backhaus, 52 Wis. 593; Cobb v. Prell,15 Fed. Rep. 774; S. C. 5
AMeCrary, 80; Grizewood v. Blane, 11 C. B. 526, 538; Bmun'.
Appeal, 55 Penn. St. 294, 298;
irkpatrik v. Bonsall, 72
Penn. St. 155 ; Lyons l'at.Bank v. Oskaloosa Paking Co..
66 Iowa, 41; Gregory v. Wattowa, 58 Iowa, 711; Xqtrry v.
Ocheltree, 59 Iowa, 435; Pearce v. Foote, 113 ]1l. 228; Flagg
v. Baldwin, 38 N. J. Eq. (11 Stewart) 219; Love v. Marmey,
114 Mass. 80.
_Mr. Thomas Dent in the case at law cited: United States v.
Central Pacifo Railroad,118 U. S. 285; Lehmnan v. Strasberger, 2 Woods, 554; Gregory v. lMenddl, 40 Mich. 432; lfill'iar
v. h'win, 11 Bissell, 57; Iwin v. Jilliar,110 U. S. 499, 508:
Clarke v. Foss, 7 Bissell, 540; K-ent v. _Jfiltenberger, 13 Missouri App. 533; Pennock v. .Dialogae, 2 Pet. 1, 16; _TPCrs
Conipany v. -Yountze, 8 Wall. 842; Z1olliday v. Rheem, 18 Penn.
St. 465; S. C. 57 Am. Dec. 628; .Deal v. Bogue, 20 Penn. St.
228; S. C 57 Am. Dec. 702; TValbrun v. Babbitt, 16 Wal].
577; -Decatur)Bank v. St. Louis Bank, 21 Wall. 294; Shutte v.
Thompson, 15 Wall. 151; WVaven, v. Blewitt, 45 Geo. 501;
1Vynian v. Fiske, 3 Allen, 238 ; S. C. 80 Am. Dec. 66 ; Thacker
v. Hardy, 4 Q. B. D. 685; -Readv. Anderson, 10 Q. B. D. 100;
Denton v. Jackson, 106 Ill. 433; Wright v. Board of Trade.
15 Chicago Legal N~ews, 239; ]Y7ovne v. Pirentis,83 Ill. 99;
Yickalls v. i1ferry, L. R. 7 II. L. 530, 539; Patterson v.
Clark, 126 X ass. 531; Yates v. Foot, 12 Johns. 1; R'uekman

WHITE v. BARBER.
Opinion of the Court.

v. Pitcher,1 Comst. 392, 402 ; Love v. Hlarvey, 114 Mass. 80
]folcott v. Heath, 78 I1. 433; and, in the Equity cause, in
iparte R~ogers, 15 Ch. Div. 207; Kirk-patrcTk v.
addition, R7r
Atlyms, 20 Fed. Rep. 287; Bangs v. Hornick, 30 Fed. Rep.
97; Poundtree v. Snmith, 108 _U. S. 269; Gilbert v. Gauges 8
Bissell, 214; Jackson v. -Foote,12 Fed. Rep. 37; Higgins v.
.AcCea, 116 U. S. 671.

Mr.. JusTIcE BLATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
The only question involved in the suit at law is as to the
correctness of the charge to the jury in the particulars specially excepted to. The proper construction of the statute of
Illinois, ยง 130 of c. 38 of the Revised Statutes, was determined by the Supreme Court of Illinois, in Wolcott v.
_leath, 78 Ill. 433, in the passage from the opinion in that
case quoted by the Circuit Court in its charge to the jury.
According to that construction, the contracts for the sale of
No. 2 spring wheat, deliverable in July, 1882, made by Barber, were not void as gambling contracts, if they were bona
fide contracts for the actual sale of grain, and if the only
option the seller had was as to the time of delivery, the obligation assumed by Barber being to deliver the grain at all
events, with the option only to deliver it at any time before
the close of business on the last day of July, 1882. That the
contracts made by Barber were of that character, and were
not such gambling contracts as the statute denounces, must be
held to have been found by the jury under the portions of the
charge specially excepted to, and under other portions of the
charge contained in the record. The plaintiff did not pray
for any instructions to be given to the jury, nor did he present
to the court any propositions of law which he maintained the
court should lay before the jury as guides to a proper solution
of the questions in controversy. The general exception to the
whole of the charge cannot be regarded, as it is a violation of
Rule 4 of this court.
In its charge to the jury, the Circuit Court explained fully
to them the theory of White, that the dealings on account of

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

which Barber paid out the moneys in question were, as between White and Barber, gambling or wager contracts and,
therefore, illegal. It presented fairly to them a statement of
the testimony on both sides of that question, as set forth in
the bill of exceptions. It also submitted to them the question
whether, in view of the testimony, the contracts in question
were contracts to buy or sell at a future day, or whether they
were absolute sales, in which the seller had the entire month
of July, 1882, in which to perform his contracts; and it
instructed them that if they should find that the dealings by
the defendant for the plaintiff were options to buy or sell at
a future day, their verdict should be for the plaintiff, but that
if, on the contrary, they should find that such dealings were
contracts by which the grain was to be absolutely delivdred
during the month of July, 1882, the only option being the
time when, during the month, the delivery should be made,
their verdict should be for the defendant. This charge was
very favorable to the plaintiff, for it necessarily involved an
affirmation of the propositions, that the plaintiff had a right
to revoke his action in advising the tender of the No. 2 red
winter wheat in fulfillment of the contracts, and had a right
to revoke his express or implied assent to the appointment of
the committee, under the rules of the board of trade, to determine what was a fair settling price for the wheat on tlie
:31st of July, 1882, and had a right to recall his connection
with the chancery suit brought by Barber against the board
of trade, in which the validity of the contracts was recognized, and had a right to ignore the fact that he had placed
Barber in the position in which, at the time of the giving of
the notice of April 2, 1883, by White to Barber, Barber was
not at liberty to refuse payment of the damages arising out of
the non-fulfillment of the contracts, but was in danger of being
expelled from the board of trade, if he persisted in such
refusal.
The jury must have found, on the testimony, that the contracts made by Barber for the plaintiff at the board of trade
were valid contracts, and that Barber was liable on them to
either deliver the grain or pay the damages in case he failed

WHITE v. BARBER.
Opinion of the Court.

to deliver, because the court charged the jury, that, if the proof
satisfied them that, by the contracts, Barber was liable to
either deliver the grain or pay the damages, then the contracts were not gambling contracts, and they should find for
the defendant.
We find no error in the record in the suit at law, and the
judgment is affirmed.
In the suit in equity, the contention on the part of White is,
that the contracts and transactions between Barber and himself were wagering contracts and, therefore, void, and that the
$6700 was subject to the demand of White, if such contracts
were void. It is urged on the part of White, that the wheat
was sold by Barber for him without any intention on the part
of either of them that there should be any delivery thereof,
but with the intention that the transactions should be settled
by the payment of the differences between the prices at which
the wheat was sold and its prices at the times stipulated for its
delivery. White testifies that such was his understanding,
communicated to Barber before Barber made the contracts of
sale. Barber testifies that he has no recollection of anything
of the kind. The evidence as to what White did in connection
with the transactions is inconsistent with White's version, and
it clearly appears that Barber had no such understanding.
The defence set up in the answer of Barber is proved to
every substantial intent, and the facts therein set forth constitute a valid bar to the suit of White. The evidence shows
that White in advance required that Barber should trade with
parties whom he knew to be responsible; that, in each case,
he gave special directions to Barber to buy or to sell, as the
case might be, and left it to Barber to put the contract in
form, these directions being generally given by telegrams
from 'White at Fort Wayne to Barber at Chicago; that it was
understood between them that Barber should buy or sell at
the Chicago Board of Trade; that Barber, in all cases, obeyed
the orders of White; that White controlled the trades which
Barber made; that, unless the margin was exhausted, Barber
was not to close out White's trades until White directed him
to do so; that it was understood that Barber was to observe

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

the rules of the board of trade; that White knew that Barber, as a member of such board, making such contracts on the
board for White, would be obliged to observe those rules;
that White directed Barber when to cover and when to close
trades, and that Barber observed his orders; that White acted
on his own judgment in making the sales of wheat for delivery
in July, 1882; that, when the contracts for those sales had
matured, White approved of the tender being made of No. 2
red winter wheat; that, subsequently, on Augus 5, 1882,
White telegraphed to Barber from Fort Wayne, directing
him not to cancel the July trades, and saying that White's
attorneys at Fort Wayne believed that such tender was good
and could be enforced; and that, on the 15th of August, 1882,
White, in a letter to Barber, stated that his attorney at Fort
Wayne had examined the subject of the. Suly deals, in connection with the rules of the board of trade, and had concluded
that the delivery which Barber had tendered was good and
was "binding on the buyer, and that we can collect the difference in court." It also appears that Barber was unwilling to
default on the contracts lest it should injure his reputation on
the board of trade, and that he defaulted on them because
White insisted that he should do so. White knew of the rule
of the board of trade under which a committee could be
appointed to determine what was a fair price for property to
be delivered, and was willing to leave it to such committee.
After the committee had fixed the price at $1.35 per bushel,
White was advised of this action and determined that legal
proceedings should be taken to set aside the award of the committee. It was in pursuance of the wish of White that the
chancery suit was brought by Barber against the board of
trade, to enjoin all action under such award. In that suit,
an injunction was obtained to restrain such action, which
injunction remained in force until the determination by the
Supreme Court of Illinois of a suit brought by one Wright
against the Board of Trade, 15 Chicago Legal INews, 239, it
having been stipulated that the suit of Barber against the
board of trade should abide the final result of the Wright
suit. The latter suit was decided in favor of the board of

WHITE v. BARBER.
Opinion of the Court.

trade. After all this had occurred, White determined to
repudiate his obligations to Barber, and, on the 2d of April,
1883, he served on Barber the written notice, claiming that
the contracts for the sale of the wheat were illegal and void,
and forbidding Barber to pay over any part of the $11,412.50
to any one but White, and demanding the immediate payment
of it to him. On the 20th of April, 18S3, Barber, having been
notified of complaints made against him before the board of
trade, under its rules, which provided for the hearing of complaints and for suspension or expulsion in case of non-compliance with contracts, notified White, in writing, of these facts.
and asked White if he could protect him (Barber) in any way.
Not receiving such protection, Barber, on the 24th of April,
1883, paid out the moneys necessary to satisfy the damageson the contracts, and thereby relieved himself from being suspended from membership in the board of trade. He had no
alternative but to pay the money or lose his business, and also
lose a sum of money, in the value of his membership in the
board of trade, equal to, if not greater than the amount in
controversy in this suit. He had acted strictly according to
the instructions he had received from White. White had left
the money in his hands for the express purpose of paying such
damages as the committee of the board of trade should find
to be due. Barber retained the money in order to allow White
to obtain some benefit if he could from the suit in chancery
brought by Barber. By that suit and by the suit of Wright
all le gal means were exhausted, leaving the rights of the purchasers under the contracts of sale to be enforced according to
the rules of the-board of trade under which they were made.
The payment of the money by Barber in satisfaction of those
damages was, under the circumstances, demanded by every
principle of law and of equity, and no right was left in White to
claim the $6700.
White had no right to forbid the payment of the money
by Barber, or to recall it from its destination. The money is
to be regarded as having been, for all practical purposes,
irrevocably set apart by both White and Barber for the payment of such damages, prior to the giving of the notice by

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

White to Barber on the 2d of April, 1883. White had caused
Barber to make the contracts and to become bound for their
performance, and had made it necessary that Barber should
put up the margins and security, and had thus placed it out
of the power of Barber to control the margins and security in
any other way than according to the rules of the board of
trade, in subordination to which White as well as Barber had
acted throughout. It was obedience to the orders of White
which had made Barber subject to suspension or expulsion by
the board of trade. The $6700 had been put up by Barber
as margins, *under the rules of the board of trade, prior to
the giving of the notice of April 2, 1883, and thus had been
before that time devoted by White as well as Barber to the
purpose of paying the damages under the rules of the board
of trade.
For the reasons thus stated, we are of opinion that the
claim of White, sought to be enforced in this suit in equity,
cannot be allowed.
A claim is made on the part of White, that he can recover
this money under the provisions of ยง 132 of c. 38 of the
Revised Statutes of Illinois. Rev. Stat. by Hurd, ed. of 1883,
p. 394:; ed. of 1885, p. 405. That section provides that "any
person who shall at any time . . . by any wager or bet
upon any . . . unknown or contingent event whatever,
lose to any person so . . . betting, any sum of money

amounting in the whole to the sum of $10, and shall
pay . . . the same or any part thereof, the person so
losing and paying . . . the same, shall be at liberty to
sue for and recover the money . . . so lost and paid . .
or any part thereof, . . . by action of debt, . .
from

the winner thereof, with costs, in any court of cmpetent
jurisdiction." It is a sufficient answer to this claim to say
that Barber was not the "winner" of any money from White.
There is a further view applicable to this case, arising out
of the decision of this court in Higgin= v. X3cCrea, 116 U. S.
671. In that case, Higgins, the broker of MfcCrea, sued him
to recover moneys which Higgins had paid for the purchase,
at the Chicago board of trade, of pork and lard, on the

WHITE v. BARBER.
Opinion of the Court..

instruction of McCrea, in May, 18S3, deliverable in August,
18S3, on such day as the seller might elect. In his answer.
McCrea set up that he had engaged with the plaintiff in
gambling transactions, and that the contracts which the plaintiff had made were not contracts for the actual delivery of
any merchandise, but were pretended purchases and mere
options, and that it was the understanding of all the parties
to the transactions that no merchandise should be delivered
on the contracts, but that the same should be settled upon the
differences between the contract prices and the market prices.
On this basis, McCrea claimed, by way of counterclaim, to
recover judgment against the plaintiff for the sum of nearly
$20,000, which he alleged he had paid to the plaintiff to carry
on such gambling transactions and to purchase option contracts. The plaintiff denied the version thus given by the
defendant of the transactions. The Circuit Court had instructed
the jury that the defendant was entitled to recover upon his
counterclaim, and he had a judgment accordingly. This
court held that the case of the defendant, as stated by himself in his answer and counterclaim, was, that the money was
advanced by him to carry on a gambling transaction, that
with his concurrence the money so advanced was used in such
gambling transaction, and that, by the statute of Illinois,
where the contracts were made, they were treated as gambling
contracts and were void; that the counterclaim thus stated
was supported by the testimony of the defendant, given on
the trial; that there was no statute of Illinois to authorize
the recovery of money paid on such contracts; and that no
recovery could be had by the defendant. This court said, in
its opinion: "We do not see on what ground a party, who
says in his pleading that the money which he seeks to recover
was paid out for the accomplishment of a purpose made an
offence by the law, and who testifies and insists to the end
of his suit that the contract on which he advanced his money
was illegal, criminal, and void, can recover it back in a court
whose duty it is to give effect to the law which the party
admits he intended to violate."
Te decree of t]te Circuit Court is afrned.

