MUSTIN v. CADWALADER.
Counsel for Plaintiffs in Error.

gess (before cited), it was held, as we have seen, that the appraisement was vitiated by proof of a failure to open, examine,
and appraise the packages designated by the collector, or to
do what was an equivalent for such an examination.
We are also of opinion, for the reasons before stated, that
Mr. Bates was a competent witness to prove the extent and
character of the examination which he made of the goods in
question. He may have been the only witness who could testify as to such examination, and certainly there was no witness
who could kmow more on the subject.
We do not consider it necessary or proper to express an
opinion upon any of the other questions raised by the counsel
for the plaintiffs in error.
Die judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the case
is remanded to that court,with a direction to award a new

MUSTIN v. CADWALADER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENN SYLVANIA.
Submitted November 3, 1887. -Decided

November 21,1887.

Under § 2930 of the Revised Statutes, the merchant appraiser must be a
person familiar with the character and value of the goods.
In a suit t6 recover back duties paid under protest, an importer has a right
to show that that provision of the statute has not been complied with.
Oelbernannv. Merritt (ante, p. 356), affirmed.

THIs was an action against the collector of the port of Philadelphia, to recover back duties alleged to have been illegally
*exacted. Judgment for defefidant. Plaintiff sued out this
writ of error. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.Mr. Eenry Edwin Tremain, AXr. 3ason T. Tyler, -Mr.
Alexander P. Ketchum, and -Yr. Frank P. Pqichard,for
plaintiffs in error.
VOL. cxxm=-24

OCTOBER TERI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

.ir. Solicitor General for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action at law brought in the Court of Common Pleas for the County of Philadelphfia, in the State of
Pennsylvania, by the members of the copartnership firm of
Thomas J. Mustin & Co., against the collector of the port
of- Philadelphia, and removed into the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, to
recover the sum of $346.09, alleged to have been illegally
exacted by the collector as duty on worsted yarn imported
by the plaintiffs from Bremen, and entered at the custom
house July 1, 1886. There was a protest, an appeal to the
Secretary of the Treasury, and a decision by him, before the
suit was brought. The statute in force at the time, applicable
to the goods in question, was Schedule K of § 2502 of the
Revised Statutes, as enacted by the act of March 3, 1883, c.
121, 22 Stat. 509, which imposes a. duty on worsted yarns
valued at above 40 cents per pound and not exceeding 60 cents
per pound, 18 cents per pound, and in addition 35 per cent
ad valorem; and on the same article valued at above 60 cents
per pound and not exceeding 80 cents per pound, 24 cents
per pound, and in addition 35 per cent ad valorem. The
goods in question were entered as having cost not more than60 cents per pound and as being dutiable at 18 cents per pound
and 35 per cent ad valorem, making the dutiable value $922,
and tfheamount of duty, $611.42, corresponding with the
invoice. The appraiser advanced the valuation from $922 to
$1041, the increase changing the rate of duty from 18 cents
per pound -tp 24 cents per- pound, and resulting in a total
duty of $749.31, instead of $611.42, and in an additional duty
of 20 per cent under § 2901 of the Revised Statutes, on the
$104:1, or $208.20, making a total duty of $957.51, or $346.09
more than the amount stated by the plaintiffs on the entry as
the proper duty. After the invoice had been advanced in
value by the appraiser, the importers demanded a re-appraisement, which cook place before the general appraiser and a

MUSTIN v. CADWALADER.
Opinion of the Court.

merchant appraiser, the latter being William F. Read.' The
claims of the plaintiffs on the trial were in accordance with
the claims made in the protest.
At the trial, it appeared that, at the opening of the proceedings for the appraisement by the general appraiser* and the
merchant appraiser, the broker of the plaintiffs appeaxed
before them and presented to them a written protest against
the appointment of Mr. Read as merchant appraiser, which
stated "that the said William F. Read is not an importer *of
or dealer in the particular quality or kind of yarn in dispute,
and that he is not acquainted with the foreign market values
of the same, and that, therefore, his appointment is not in
conformity with the customs regulations on this subject." The
protest cited article 466 of the general regulations under the
customs laws, issued by the Treasury Department in 1884,
and in force at the time of the plaintiffs' importation, and
which required that the merchafit appraiser should be a "discreet and experienced merchant, a citizen of the United States,
familiar with the character and value of the goods in question,"
and referred to § 2930 of the lRevised Statutes. The plaintiffs
offered this paper in evidence, and it was objected to by the
defendant as immaterial, and also on the further ground that,
as there had been a merchant appraisement, the same was
final and conclusive as. to the value of the goods, and that it
could only be attacked upon the ground of fraud. The plaintiffs also offered to show that Mr. Read was not familiar with
the character and value of the goods. This evidence was
objected to by the defendant as immaterial and irrelevant.
All of the evidence thus offered was ruled out by the court,
on the ground that the act of Congress had confided exclusi,-1 to the collector the selection of the merchant, appraiser,
and that the importer had no right to object to such selection;
that the provisions of.the statute were simply directory to the
collector; that evidence tending to show that the person
selected had not the requisite familiar knowledge of the
subject matter of the importation to enable him to discharge
his duties 'satisfactorily could not be regarded as sufficient
ground for assailing the action of the collector; and that his

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

action in selecting a particular person to be merchant appraiser
was not subject to revision in any court where the importer
sought to recover what he claimed to be an erroneous imposition of duties. The plaintiffs excepted to these rulings. There
was a verdict and a judgment for the defendant, to review
which the plaintiffs have sued out a writ of error.
The question involved in the exclusion of the evidence offered., is the same question as that passed upon in the case of
Oelbermnann v. 2lerritt, decided herewith. For the reasons
stated in the opinion in that case, it must be held that the
evidence was erroneously excluded.
Other questions were raised by the plaintiffs at the trial,
and are discussed in the briefs of their counsel in this court,
but we do not think it necessary or proper to pass upon any
question other than the one above considered.
The Judgment of the Ci'ewit Court is reversed, and the case
is r.'6nanded to that court, with a directionr to award a new
triaz.

IN RE HENRY.
ORIGINAL.
Submitted November 10, 18S7.-Decided November 21, 1887.
Each letter or packet put in or taken out from the post-office of the United
States in violation of the provisions of Rev. Stat. § 5480 constitutes a
separate and distinct violation of th act.
Three separate offences (but not more) against the provisions of Rev.
Stat. § 5480, when committed within the same six calendar months, may
be joined, and when so joined there is to be a single sentence for all;
but this does not prevent other indictments, for other and distinct offences under the same statute committed within the same six calendar
months.

THIS was a motion for a rule to show cause why a writ of
habeas corpus should not issue. The motion for leave to move
for the rule was filed on the 11th of October, 1887. On the
17th of October leave was granted, and also leave to file a

