TALKINGTON v. DUMIBLETON.
Opinion of the Court.

Other questions have been discussed by counsel; but, as they
may not arise upon another trial, or in the precise form in
which they are now presented, we will not consider them.
For the reasons stated,
-The judgment .TtW.t be reversed, with directions.for anot/ewr
trial in accordance with the prinwiples of this opinion.
It is so ordered.

TALKINGTON v. DUIBLETON.
APPEAL FROX ThE CIRCUIT

cOURT

OF THE

STATES FOR

UNITED

ThE DISTRICT OF OREGON.
Submitted December 15, I37.

Decided December 19, 1S7.

When the value of the property in dispute is one of the questions in the
case and was necessarily involved in its determination in the court
below, this court will not. on a motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction, consider affidavits tending to contradict the finding of that court in
respect of its value.

MOTION to dismiss for want of jurisdiction.
stated in the opinion of the court.

.Xir. _Franko

The case is

. Drake for the motion.

J2L,'. John i. .AMitchell opposing.
MR. CHIEF JUSTIcE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This suit was brought on the 10th. of April, 1886, by Henrv
M. Dumbleton, the appellee, to set aside a conveyance of
lands made by hiiii to F. P. Talkington, one of the appellants.
on the 23d of February, 1885, in exchange. for the interest of
Talkington in a saloon, on the ground that the exchange was
brought about and the con veyance obtained by the false and
fraudulent representations of Talldngton as to the value of
his property. In his bill Dumbleton alleged that the value of
the land was $7000, and that Talkington represented to him

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

that the value of the property to be given in exchange therefor was of equal amount, or more.
In his answer, which was filed May 14, 1886, Talkington
denied that the land, "or complainant's interest therein, was
on February -15, 1884, or at any time since, has been of the
value of $7000, or of any greater value than $4000," and he
averred that at the time of the exchange "the said saloon,
stock in trade, and the good will thereof was of the value of
at least $4000." Upon the issue thus presented testimony
was taken by both parties, that for Dumbleton tending to
prove that the value was $7000, and that for Talkington that
it was less than $4000. A decree was entered November 8,
1886, finding that the value of the land "was and still is
$5000, and no more," and directing Talkington to reconvey on
the payment to him of the sum of $812.
From that decree Talkington and his codefendants, who
claim under him, took this appeal, which Dumbleton moves to
dismiss because the value of the matter in dispute does not
exceed $5000, that being the amount now required for our
jurisdiction on appeals and writs of error from the Supreme
Courts of the Territories in cases like this. Act of March 3,
1885, 23 Stat. 443, c. 355. To overcome the effect of the
finding of the court upon the question of value, the appellants present here the affidavits of sundry persons fending to
show that the actual value of the land at the time of the
decree was sufficient for our jurisdiction, and they ask that
these affidavits may be considered upon this motion.
Inasmuch as the appellants sought in the court below to
establish as part of their defence the fact that the land was
not worth $7000, but only $4000, and succeeded so far as to
get the court to find that it did not exceed $5000, we are not
inclined to allow the same parties, for the purpose of establishing our jurisdiction, to show by affidavits that the answer
of Talkington, the principal defendant, and sworn to by him,
was erroneogs in that 'particular, even if, under any circumstances, it would be permissible to show by affidavits that the
value appearing in the record was not the true value, which
we by no means admit. In Zeigler v. H(opkins, 117 U. S.

HEFNER v. NORTHWESTERN

LIFE INS. CO.

747

Syllabus.

683, 689, where affidavits were submitted, the findingo of the

court below as to value was not a material question in the
case upon its merits, but was more in the nature of an inquiry
for the purpose of determining whether an appeal should be
allowed, as in Iilsorn v. Blair, 119 U. S. 387. Here, however, the value of the property was one of the questions in
the case and necessarily involved in its determination.
As the value of the matter in dispute is, according to the
finding of the court below, not more than $5000,
Tha motion to dismiss is granted.

IEFNER v. NORTHWESTERN LIFE INSURANCE
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
Argued November 7, 8, 1887.-Decided December 10, 1887.

Multifariousness as to subjects or parties, within the jurisdiction of a court
of equity, does not render a decree void, so that it can be treated as a
nullity in a collateral action.
A court of equity, in a suit to foreclose a mortgage, may permnit a person.
to whom the land has been sold and conveyed for non-payment of taxes
assessed after the date of the mortgage, to be made a party, and may
determine the validity of his title.
A bill in equity by A against B and C to foreclose a mortgage from B to .A
alleged that C claimed some interest in the premises, the exact nature of
which the plaintiff was unable to set out, and prayed for a decree of foreclosure, and that the right, title and interest of each defendant be forever barred and foreclosed, and for a sale of the premises, and for
further relief. In the decree C's default was recited and confirmed, and
it was adjudged that the mortgage was a lien prior and paramount to
the lien of each defendant, and that the right, title and equity of redemption of each defendant be by a sale under the decree forever barred and
foreclosed, and that the purchaser at such sale should take the premise
by title absolute, relating back to the date of the mortgage. Under that
decree the land was sold to A. Held, that the decree was a conclusive
adjudication that C had no valid title or lien, and estopped him to set up,
in defence to an action of ejectment by A, a tax title subsejluent to the
mortgage and prior to the suit for foreclosure.

