OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

Upon this record, therefore, this court cannot decide, either
that the decree of the Circuit Court should be affirmed, or that
it should be reversed or modified, but must order the
Appeal to be dismissed.

SMITH v. C2RAFT.
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
Argued November 4, 1887. - Decided December 5,1887.

Whether an agreement to prefer a bona fide creditor is so fraudulent against
other creditors, as to avoid a subsequent preference of the former, involves, a question of fact, depending upon all the circumstances, and cannot be referred to this court by certificate of division of opinion.
A bill of sale of a stock of goods in a shop, by way of preference of a bona
fide creditor, is not rendered conclusively fraudulent, as matter of law,
against other creditors, by containing a stipulation that the purchaser
shall employ the debtor at a reasonable salary to wind up the business.
Jewnell v. Knight, ante, 426, followed.

BILL IN EQUITY by general creditors of Craft against him,
Fletcher and Churchman. After a hearing upon pleadings
and proofs before the Circuit Judge and the District- Judge,
the bill was dismissed, and they signed a certificate of division
of opinion, the formal parts of which were like those of the
certificate in Jewell v. ]night, ante, 426, and the rest of which
was as follows:
"On April 5, 1879, William H. Craft, one of the defendants,
was indebted to Fletcher and Churchman, under the firm name
of S. A. Fletcher & Co., known as Fletcher's Bank, in about
the sum of $33,000. He was also indebted to William Smith
and others, the complainants, and other eastern creditors, in
about the sum of $16,000. Craft had been for many years a
dealer in watches and jewelry in the city of Indianapolis, and
had enjoyed good credit, both at Indianapolis and in the eastern cities, among manufacturers and wholesale dealers. By an

•SMITH v. CRAFT.
Statement of the Case.

invoice taken about the date above named, it became known
to him that his entire assets amounted to about $33,000. The
indebtedness to the bank of S. A. Fletcher & Co. was evidenced by two promissory notes of $12,500 each, dated December 27, 1878, and due in thirty and sixty days respectively,
and one note of $7313.19, dated August 17, 1877, which, with
accrued interest, amounted to $8085.35, payable to F. f.
Churchman. The notes for'$12,500 each were for money
borrowed of the bank as follows, to wit': in November, 1876,
$7000; in February, 1877, $6000; in August, 1877 $2500; in
October, 1877, $6500 ; and other sums, making the total amount
due in December, 1878, $25,000. The loans were made upon
90 days' time, and ten per cent annual interest deducted in
advance at the time of the loan and of each renewal, the
renewals having been regularly and promptly made every 90
days until December 28, 1878, at which time some of the notes
were overdue. No further renewals were made. The note
for $7313.19 was executed August 17, 1877, the money having been used by Craft in making the last payment on a stock
of jewelry purchased by Craft at the date of the execution of
said note.
"The debts owed by Craft to his eastern creditors were for
stock purchased from time to time for the purpose of replenishing his store, and his eastern debts were'about fifty thousand dollars in 1876, when he began to borrow money from
the Fletcher Bank.
"At the time the notes for $12,500 each were given, it was
understood between Craft and the bank that Craft should not
buy so heavily as he had been doing theretofore, and carry a
less stock and apply his sales (as far as practicable) in reducing
the debt to the bank. At that time Craft represented his stock
as being worth $60,000.
"On the said 5th day of April, after completing his inventory and finding from it his inability to pay all his debts, he
went to the office of IRitter & Ritter, attorneys, *they being
his legal advisers, to counsel with them in regard to his affairs,
and thence sent for F. M. Churchman, the business manager
of Fletcher's Bank, and made known to Churchman his finan-

OCTOBER TERM, 1987.
Statement of the Case.

cial condition, intimating at the same time an intention to
make an assignment for the benefit of his creditors. This was
the first information that Churchman or the bank had of the
insolvency of Craft.
"Churchman reminded Craft of the many conversations
they had had together, and that Craft had always said he
would protect the bank if anything ever occurred by which he
was not able to pay his debts; if he met with any losses or
anything of the kind, he would secure the bank, if the bank
would loan him the money from time to time. Craft said he
had made these promises, and believed he was solvent all the
time and able to pay the bank, and intended to pay it and
wanted to secure the bank debt. Churchman then told him
he did not know of but one way to do it, and that was for the
bank to buy the stock. This Craft finally agreed to, and the
following bill of sale was drawn up and signed by Craft:
"' Whereas William H. Craft, of the city*of Indianapolis,
Marion County, State of Indiana, is indebted to Francis M.
Churchman, of said city, in about the sum of thirty-one thousand dollars, evidenced by three certain promissory notes,
dated respectively each December 27, 1878,two for the sum of
$12,500 each and the other for the sum of $7363, due respectively in thirty and two in sixty days after date, and signed by
W. I.Craft, now, in consideration of the full payinent,.satisfaction and surrender of said indebtedness and notes, said Craft
does hereby bargain, sell and deliver to said Churchman all his
stock of watches, diamonds, jewelry, silverware, fixtures and
property of every kind, now owned and used by said Craft in
his business at No. 24: East Washington Street in said city;
also all the interest of said Craft in the lease held by him to
said premises; and the further consideration that said Churchman shall employ said Craft in said business at the rate of one
hundred and fifty. dollars per month so long as said Churchman shall carry on or continue said business. In witness
whereof I have'hereunto set my hand and seal this fifth day
of April, 1879.
"'

WILIAM[ H=. CRAFT.'"

SMITH v. CRAFT.
Statement of the Case.

"The complainants are merchants and manufacturers in
Ea stern cities, who had for many years dealt with the defendant Craft, selling him goods on credit, and knew nothing of
his indebtedness to the bank or of his promise to protect the
bank in the manner above found bythe court, and continued
to sell him goods on credit while he was so borrowing money."
The certificate then stated in detail the names of the plaintiffs, the amounts of their debts (each being for less than
$3000) for goods sold at various times before March 26, 1879,
and the judgments recovered thereon by them in the Superior
Court of Marion County, at different dates from September
18, 1879, to June 9, 1881; that executions were issued upon
those judgments, and returned nulla bona; and that all of
those judgments are in full force, unpaid and unsatisfied; and
continued as follows:
"Upon the execution and delivery of the said bill of sale,
which was for the use -and benefit of the bank, the three
notes above mentioned held by the bank were delivered up to
the said Craft as paid and satisfied, and Churchman, for the
bank, took possession of the property, stock of jewelry and
lease mentioned in the bill of sale, and, with Craft ag manager,
carried on the said business, reducing the stock as rapidly as
possible, with a view to closing it out, for about six months,
when the balance of the stock was sold out at auction. The
bank realized for the entire stock $20,000. Craft received,
during the time he was so employed as manager, the sum of
$150 per month, as stipulated in the said bill of sale, and had
no interest, either directly or indirectly, except as appears by
said bill of sale, in the stock of jewelry or the lease or in the
proceeds of either after the date of said sale."
The certificate then stated that upon th6 hearing of the
said cause the following questions arose, upon each and all of
which the opinions of said judges were opposed, to wit:
"First. Whether the understanding between the said
Churchman, representing the said bank, and the said Craft,
that if the said bank would loan the said Craft money from
time to time, and that if anything should occur by which he,
the said Craft, was not able to pay his debts, he would secure

OCTOBF

-

ERM, 1887.

Opinion of the Court.

the bank, constituted a fraud upon the said Smith & Co. and
other creditors named in the said bill of complaint, so as to
invalidate and render void the said sale of the said stock of
jewelry and the assignment of the lease so afterwards made
to the said Churchman for the use of the said bank.
"Second. Whetler the 'further consideration,' mentioned
in said bill of sale, by which the said Craft was employed in
said business for a compensation at the rate of $150 per month
so long as the said Churchman for the said bank should continue or carry on said business, was fraudulent as to the said
Smith & Co. and the other creditors of the said Craft, and
whether said stipulation vitiated and rendered void said sale
made to the said Churchman for the said bank, as to the said
other creditors of the said Craft.
"Third. Whether, as a conclusion of law from the above
facts which are found by the court, the said sale by the said
Craft to the said Churchman for the use of the said bank was
and is fraudulent and void, and made to Churchman for the
bank with the intent to hinder or delay the said Smith & Co.
and the other complaining creditors of the said Craft."
_ .Benjamin, Harriso and .r.
lants.
Y}r. Joseph

Hrorace Speed for appel-

. Mc21Donaild for appellees.

AtX.

John _M.

Butler was with him on the brief.
m.

JUSTICE

GAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This case, also, comes before the court upon a certificate of
division of opinion, and resembles in many respects that of
Jewell v. _7;night, ante, 426, argued with it, and just decided.
It is a bill in equity by several creditors, each of whose
claims is for less than $5000, to set aside as fraudulent a sale
made by their debtor, Craft, a dealer in watches and jewelry,
of his whole stock in trade to Fletcher and Churchman, a banking partnership, known as Fletcher's Bank.
the first question certified is, whether the understanding

SMITH v. CRAFT.
Opinion of the Court.

between the bank and Craft., that if the bank would lend him
money from time to time, and that if anything should occur
by which he was not able to pay his debts, he would secure
the bank, constituted a fraud upon his other creditors, so as to
invalidate the subsequent sale of his stock.
What the understanding here referred to was, or how long
it had existed, can only be gathered from the statement of a
different understanding at the time of the giving of the latest
notes by Craft to the bank from the recital of a conversation
between Craft and Churchman on the very day when the bank
was first informed of Craft's insolvency and when the bill of
sale was executed ; and from the other circumstances set forth
in the certificate of division.
As the debtor might lawfully prefer one of his creditors if
there was no actual fraud, it cannot, in the absence of any
finding upon that point, be said, as matter of law, either that
the previous agreement to prefer was fraudulent, or that it
was not; but the question of fraud or no fraud involved a
question of fact, which, if this case had been on the common
law side of the court, and either party had desired it, must
have been submitted to a jury. Bank of -Leavenworth v.
Iunt, 11 Wall. 391; National Park Bank v. TFkitrore, 104
N. Y. 297.
The second question certified is, whether the bill of sale was
rendered void as to other creditors by containing a stipulation
that the bank should "employ said Craft in said business at
the rate of $150 per month so long as" the bank should "carry on or continue said business."
But whether such a stipulation is valid or invalid depends
upon its intention. If its object appeared on its face to have
been to secure a benefit to the debtor or his family, it would
be fraudilent in law. Lukins v. Aird, 6 Wall. 78; .X Clurg
v. Lecky, 3 Penrose & Watts, 83,; llar is v. Sumner, 2 Pick.
129. But if its sole purpose was to obtain services necessary
to wind up the business and turn the goods into money .
promptly and economically as possible, for the benefit of the
other party, it is valid. Wilcoxom *. Annesley, 23 Indiana.
285; Baxter v. Wheeler, 9 Pick. 21; Strong v. Canrqer, 17

. OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

Conn. 319. As was well said by the Supreme Court of Indiana in Wleoxon v. Annesley, "Where, as in this case, the
purchase was of a stock of goods in a store, and an established
trade existing, it seems but reas6nable that, at a fair salary,
the grantor might be employed, for a time at least, to continue
in charge of the business, and that circumstance will not in
itself prove the transaction fraudulent." 23 Indiana, 295.
The only facts stated in the certificate, (other than the bill
of sale itself,) directly bearing upon the validity of the stipulation, are that the bank, with Craft as manager, carried on
the business, reducing the stock as rapidly as possible, "with
a view to closing it out," for about six months, when the stock
remaining was sold by auction; that the bank realized for the
entire stock $20,000; and Craft received the siim of $150 a
month, or about $900 in all, and, since the bill of sale, had no
other interest, direct or indirect, in the stock of goods or its
proceeds. It cannot be concluded as matter of law, either on
the face of the bill of sale, or with the aid of this evidence of
what was done under its provisions, that the compensation was
unreasonable, or that the stipulation in question was fraudulent. Whether, taken in connection with all the previous
transactions between the parties, it was fraudulent in fact,
was a question to be decided by the Circuit Court.
The third question certified is clearly irregular, as avowedly
referring the whole case to the decision of this court.
For these reasons, and upon the autho- ties collected in
.Jewell v. -Knight, ante, 432, 433, this court lhas -o authority to
answer any of the questions certified, and the entry must be
Appeal dismissed.

