SUN INSURANCE CO. v. KOUNTZ LINE.
Statement of the Case.

allowing an amended petition to be filed could be lawfully
made in this case, so long as final judgment had not been
entered, it was equally within the power of the court to
modify that order so as to treat the amendment as a mere
addition to the original petition, and- thus to preclude, the
plaintiff from contesting a material fact, within her own
knowledge, which she had once solemnly averred.
Judgment aflirmed.

SUN INSURANCE CO. v. KOUNTZ LINE.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Petition for rehearing. Presented October 11, 18S7. Decided October 24, 1887.

Eie mandate in Sun Insurance Co. v. Z.ountz Line, 122 U. S. 583, is modified in manner as shown in the order herein announced.

Tins cause was decided at the last term of court, and is reported at 122 U. S. 583 et seq. After the opinion of the court
was handed down, and on the same day, the counsel of the
plaintiff in error moved for a stay of the mandate, and for
leave to file a petition for a rehearing. Both motions were
granted.
During vacation the petition was lodged in the
office of the Clerk of the Court, and, on the opening of the
court at the present term, it was presented to the Chief Justice and the Associate Justices. The petition was as follows:
"Come the appellees, by counsel, and move the court (leave
therefor being obtained) to grant a rehearing in this cause on
behalf of the appellees, for the following reasons:
"F"ir..st. That there is no such legal evidence in the record
as would sustain the conclusion that the several transportation
companies are jointly liable with the II. C. Yeager Transportation Company for the loss of the produce and merchandise shipped on the steamboat Henry C. Yeager at St. Louis
on the 21st May, 1880, or that it was ever the intention of
the respective owners of said boats to be partners, or to hold
VOL. cxxim-5

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Citations for Petitioner.

themselves out as partners, or that they actually held themselves out as partners.
"1Second. That the statutes of the United States having
fixed the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court at $5000, and the
claim of one of the appellants (the Iibernian Insurance Company) being only $4829.73, and no claim for interest or
damages being made in the libel, nor allowed by any jutdgment of court, nor allowed by the laws of Louisiana, under
such circumstances, where the libel was filed, the appeal as to
it should have been disallowed.
"Thtird. That the decree of the Circuit Court is simply
'reversed,' with directions to that court to set aside all orders
inconsistent with, and to enter such orders and decree as may
be in conformity to, the principles of this opinion, and that it
is impossible to determine whether this is as to all the parties
libellants, or which of them, as this court did not limit or
define its order of 'reversal.'"
3-fr. Attorney General, .llhr. Charles B. Singleton, and .ff.
R. I. Browne for the petitioner cited: Rich v. Lambert, 12
How. 347, 352, 353 ; Seaver v. Bigelows, 5 Wall. 208; Oliver v.
Alexander, 6 Pet. 143; Stratton v. Jarvis, 8 Pet. 4; Stewart
v. Dunham, 115 U. S. 61; Gibson, v. kltqfeldt, 122 U. S. 27 ;
Lincoln v. (laGcin, 7 Wall. 132, 139; Olney v. Steamsl;
Ffalcon, 17 How. 19; Ifemmen way v. .Fisher, 20 How. 255;
Brown v. Bessou, 30 La. Ann. 734; Citizens' Bank v.
Jrc Condran, 22 La. Ann. 53; Saunders v. Taylor, 7 Martin,
KN. S. 15; Baudin v. Conway, 2 La. 513; Thonpson v. First
-NationalBank of Toledo, 111 U. S. 537; The S. B. MTieelel,
20 Wall. 385; .3ferchants' -m. Co. v. Allen, 121 U. S. 67;
Dickinson v. Valpy, 10 B. & C. 128; Pott v. Eyton, 3 C. B.
32; .Edmundson v. Thompson, 7 H. & N. 1027; Irvin v.
Conklin, 36 Barb. 641; WYard v. .Pennell, 51 Maine, 52; .Xlar,7
ham v. Jones, 7 B. Mlon. 457; WVight v. Powell, 8 Ala. 671;
Ifefner v. Palmer, 67 Ill. 161 ; Campbell v. Bastings, 29 Ark.
512; insurance Co. v. Railroad Co., 101 U. S. 146, 149:
Briggs v. VFanderbilt, 19 Barb. 222; Bonst4 v. 'Vanderbilt,
21 Barb. 26; Brandtv. Virginia Coal & _iron Co., 93 U. S. 326.

ORIENT INSURANCE CO. v. ADAMS.
Syllabus.

MR. JUSTICE IIARLAN:
The rehearing asked is denied and the mandate is modified
so as to read as follows-:
"The decree, in so far as it dismisses the original libel of
the appellants, the Sun Mutual Insurance Company of New
Orleans and the Hibernia Insurance Company of New Orleans,
and adjudges that the M. Moore Transportation Company and

the K. P. Kountz Transportation Company, respectively,
recover from said appellants the cost and expenses of the
seizure, detention and sale of the steamboats J. B. l. Kehlor
and Katie P. Kountz, respectively, is reversed, and the cause
is remanded with directions to the court below to set aside

all orders inconsistent with the rights of said appellants as
declared in the opinion of this court, and to enter such orders

and decrees as may be in conformity therewith."

ORIENT INSURANCE
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

COMPANY v. ADAMS.
OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Argued April la, 18S7.-Decided October 24, 1887.

In the absence of fraud or design, misconduct on the part of the master of
a vessel covered by a policy of insurance will not defeat a recovery on
the policy, when the proximate cause of the loss is a peril covered by it.
A provision in a policy of insurance of a steam vessel that the insurer shall
not be liable for losses occasioned by "the derangement or breaking
of the engine or machinery or any consequences resulting therefrom"
relates to losses of which the derangement or breaking is the proximate
cause, and not to such as are a remote consequence of either.
The abandonment of a vessel for total loss, made in good faith at a time
when it was in reasonable probability impracticable to recover and
repair it, and when the damage from the perils insured against amounted
in like probability to more than fifty per cent of the value, is a valid
abandonment within the terms of a policy which provides that there
shall be "no abandonment as for a total loss," unless the injury sustained
be equivalent to fifty per cent of the agreed value;- although by a

