SPIES v. ILLINOIS.
Syllabus.

the Commissioner of the General Land Office were contained
in letters written by him to the parties interested. We think
the evidence was competent, and in fact it was uncontroverted.
We find no error in the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Ohio. It is therefore
Aflrwd.

SPIES v. ILLINOIS.
ORIGINAL.
Argued October 27, 28, 1887.-Decided November 2, 1887.
When application is made to this court, for the allowance of a writ of error
to the highest court of a State under Rev. Stat., § 709, the writ will not
be allowed if it appear from the face of the record that the decision of
the Federal question which is complained of was so plainly right as not
to require argument; especially if it accords with well considered judgments of this court.
It is well settled that the first ten articles of Amendment to the Constitution of the United States were not intended to limit the powers of the
States, in respect of their own people, but to operate on the national
government only.
Hopt v. Utah, 120 U. S. 430, affirmed to the point that when a challenge by
a defendant in a criminal action to a juror for bias, actual or implied, is
disallowed, and the juror is thereupon peremptorily challenged by the
defendant and excused, and an impartial and competent juror is obtained
in his place, no injury is done the defendant if, until the jury is completed, lie has other peremptory challenges which he can use.
Hay.s v. Missouri, 120 U. S. 68, affirmed to the point that the right to challenge is the right to reject, not the right to select a juror; and if from
those who remain an impartial jury is obtained, the constitutional right
of the accused is maintained.
A statute of Illinois passed March 12, 1874, Hurd's Stats. Ill. 1885, 752, c.
78, § 14, enacted that "in the trial of any criminal cause, the fact that a
person called as a juror has formed an opinion or impression, based upon
rumor or upon newspaper statements (about the truth of which he has
expressed no opinion), shall not disqualify him to serve as a juror in such
case, if he shall upon oath state that he believes he can fairly and impartially render a verdict therein in accordance with the law and the evidence, and the court shall be satisfied of the truth of such statement."
At a trial, had in that State, of apersonsaccused of an offence punishable,
on conviction, with death, the court ruled that, under this statute, "it is
not a test question whether the juror will have the opinion, which he has

OCTOBER TERMN,

1887.

Statement of the Case.
formed from the newspapers, changed by the evidence, but whether his
ve-dict will be based only upon the account which may here be given by
witnesses under oath." fIeld, that, as tluis interpreted, the statute did
not deprive the persons accused of a right to trial by an impaitial jury;
that it was not repugnant to the Constitution of Illinois, nor to the Constitution of the United States; and that, if the sentence of the court, after
conviction, should be carried into execution, they would not be deprived
of their lives without due process of law.
When the ground relied on for the reversal by this court of a judgment of
the highest court of a State is that the error complained of is so gross as
to amount in law to a denial by the State of a trial by an impartial jury
to one who is accused of crime, it must be made clearly to appear, in
order to obtain a reversal, that such is the fact, and that the case is not
one which leaves something to the conscience or discretion of the court.
When a person accused of crime voluntarily offers himself on his trial for
examination as a witness in his own behalf, he must submit to a proper
cross-examination under the law of the jurisdiction where he is being
tried, and the question whether his cross-examination must be confined
to matters pertinent to the testimony in chief, or whether it may be extended to the matters in issue, is not a Federal question.
In order to give this court jurisdiction under Rev. Stat § 709, because of
the denial by a state court of any title, right, privilege or immunity
claimed under the Constitution, or any treaty or statute of the United
States, it must appear on the record that it was duly set up: that the de-cision was adverse; and that that decision was made in the highest court
of the State.
Questions concerning the rights of parties under treaties of the United
States with other powers cannot be raised in this court for the first thne,
if the record does not show that they were raised in the court below.
THIS

was a petition for a writ of error, addressed in the

first instance to 21n. JUSTICE

HARLA.

The petitioners had been indicted, arraigned and tried in a
state court of Illinois for an offence punishable with death
under the laws of that State, and had been found guilty; and
the proceedings in the trial court had been sustained by the
Supreme Court of Illinois on appeal; and the petitioners had
been sentenced to death, and the 11th day of November, 1S87,
had been named as the day for their execution.
Their petition, wihich was voluminous, set forth that the
Supreme Court of Illivois bad erred in its judgment, and had
deprived them of their rights, privileges and immunities, and
that in the proceedings at their trial there was drawn in ques-

SPIES, v. ILLINOIS.
Statement of the Case.

tion the validity of certain statutes of the State of Illinois as
being repugnant to the Constitution of the United States,
which nevertheless had been adjudged by the court to be
valid.
The petition then set forth the following act of March 12,
1874, Hurd's Stats. Ill. 1885, 752, c. 78, § 14:
"It shall be sufficient cause of challenge of a petit juror
that he lacks any one of the qualifications mentioned in Section 2 of this Act; or if he is not one of the regular panel.
that he has served as a juror on the trial of a cause in any
court of record in the county within one year previous to
the time of his being offered as a juror; or, that he is a party
to a suit pending for trial in that court at that tern. It shall
be the duty of the court to discharge from the panel all jurors
who do not possess the qualifications provided in this Act, as
soon as the fact is discovered: Provided, if a person has served
on a jury in a court of record within one year, he shall be
exempt from again serving during such year, unless he waives
such exemption: Provildedfvether, that it shall not be a
cause of challenge that a juror has read in the newspapers
an account of the commission of the crime with which the
prisoner is charged, if such juror shall state on oath that he
believes he can render an impartial verdict according to the
law and the evidence: and Piovidedfarther,that in the trial
of any criminal cause, the fact that a person called as a juror
has formed an opinion or impression, based upon rumor or
upon newspaper statements (about the trath of which he has
expressed no opinion), shall not disqualify him to serve as a
juror in such case, if he shall upon oath state that he believes
he can fairly and impartially render a verdict therein in
accordance with the law and the evidence, and the court shall
be satisfied of the truth of such statement."
It was charged that "in this case the criminal court of
Cook County held that said statute controlled as to the qualifications of jurors, and that under this statute a man was
a competent and qualified juror, and not subject to challenge
for cause on account of prejudice or partiality, notwithstand-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

ing any opinion formed and expressed by him touching the
guilt or innocence of the accused, which opinion was based
on what he had heard and read touching the matter inquired
of, and notwithstanding the proposed juror stated that he still
entertained an opinion that the defendants, or some of them,
were guilty as charged, or upon the question of their guilt,
and that he still believed to be true the accounts heard and
read by him; and that his opinion was so fixed that it would.
require evidence, and even strong evidence, to change that
opinion; provided only the juror would state that he did not
know that he had expressed any opinion as to the truth of the
reports read or heard by him prior to his being called as a
juror, and that he believed he could render a fair and inpartial verdict in the cause."
The petitioners objected that the statute as thus construed
was repugnant to the provisions of Article 3, Section 2, Clause
3 of the Constitution of the United States, and of Articles 5, 6,
and Section 1 of Article 14 of the Amendments to the Constitution; and also that it was repugnant to the provisions of
the Constitution of the State of Illinois, especially those found
in Sections 2 and 9 of Article 2. Those objections were overruled at the trial, and those rulinggos were sustained by the
Supreme Court of Illinois, and it was averred that that court
"thereby denied to the accused the claim, right, privilege and
immunity of trial by an 'impartial jury,' and also by their
decision deprived petitioners of life, liberty and property without ' due process of law,' and abridged the privileges and immunities of petitioners ai citizens of the United States, contrary to and in violation of the Constitution of the United
States"
It was next averred that the petitioners claimed in said
cause the right, privilege and immunity, of the "equal protection of the law" guaranteed to them under Article 14 of the
Amendments of the Federal Constitution; and such right,
privilege and immunity were denied to them by the decision
of said Supreme Court of said State, which decision was
adverse to their claim:

SPIES v. ILLINOIS.
Statement of the Case.

(a) Because in this case the protection, privilege, right and
immunity of a previous uniform construction 1 of the constitutions of the State of Illinois relating to the impartiality of
jurors, and an opinion touching the prisoner's guilt, to remove
which evidence would be required, were denied to the defendants, whereby they were deprived of "the equal protection of
the laws," it being held in this case as against the petitioners
by said Supreme Court of the State of Illinois, but without
overruling, modifying or calling in question any of such prior
opinions and decisions of said court, that the prior opinion
of the proposed juror concerning the guile of the accused,
though firm and deeply seated, based on reports fully believed
to be true, and though said opinion was of such a natui'e as
would require evidence, and even strong evidence, for its
removal, did not render such person disqualified to sit as a
juror for the trial of this case and these petitioners.
(b)Because although the Supreme Court of Illinois had uniformly accorded to other persons accused of crime the protection in the selection of a jury of excluding from the jury, as
disqualified by reason of partiality, favor or bias, persons who
confessed a prejudice against the class of persons to which the
defendants confessedly belonged ;2 and had uniformly held
that the accused had the right to interrogate proposed jurors
fully, so as to ascertain whether such prejudice was so strong
as to probably affect their verdict; and also to advise the
accused with reference to determining whether to exercise a
peremptory challenge; 2 and although the record showed that
the petitioners claimed the same "protection of the law" in
the selection of the jury, and asked that persons be excluded
therefrom who confessed that they had a prejudice against
persons belonging to the classes or societies called Socialists,
Communists, and Anarchists, to some of which defendants
Referring to Smith v. Eames, 3 Scammon, 76; Gardnerv. People, 3 Scammon, 83; T'enn m v. llarwood, 1 Gilman, 659; Baxter v. People, 3 Gilman,
368; Neely v. People, 13 Il1. 685; Gray v. People, 26 Ill. 344; Collins v.
People, 48 Ill. 146; Chicago & Alton Railroadv. Adler, 56 Ill. 344.
2 Referring to Winnisheik Ins. Co. v. Schueller, 60 111. 465; Chicago &
Alton Railroad v. Buttoif, 66 Ill. 347; Latin v. People, 69 Ill. 303.

OCTOBER TERM1, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

belonged; and that they asked the right to interrogate persons proposed to them as jurors, as to whether their admitted
prejudice against the classes named was of such a character as
in their opinion would influence their verdict, if it should
appear that defendants belonged to such classes: yet the right
to so interrogate such proposed jurors, and the right to challenge them for cause, were alike denied to the petitioners by
the said Supreme Court of Illinois, and the decision of said
court was against the right, privilege and immunity so
claimed.
(c) Because although the Supreme Court of the State of
Illinois had theretofore uniformly held that it was improper
and illegal for the representative of the people in argument to
the jury to go outside of the record, to make unsustained charges
against tlie defendants, and to indulge in vituperation and abuse
of the accused, and had held that for such improprieties the
cause should be reversed;I yet in the case at bar, as appeared
from the record, the prosecuting attorney was allowed by the
trial court, in the face of objection made, to travel entirely
outside of the record, and to make as against the defendants on
trial for life, charges and statements having no foundation in
the evidence in the record, and was also permitted to indulge
in violently denunciatory and abusive language towards the
accused.
This, it was alleged, was assigned for error in the Supreme
Court of the State of Illinois; but that court upheld the action
of the trial court in the particulars above referred to, and
held that the action of the State's attorney in these regards
was not objectionable in this case, thereby deciding adversely
to the right, privilege and immunity claimed by the petitioners,
and denying to them that equal protection of the laws guaranteed to, and claimed by, them under the Federal Constitution.
(d) Because the counsel for the prosecution had been allowed
by the trial court, against the petitioner's objection, to refer
to the failure of some of the defendants to testify, and the
IReferring to Fox v. People, 95 IDi. 71; Ilennies v. Vrogel, 87 Ill. 242.

SPIES v. ILLINOIS.
Statement of the Case.

Supreme Court on appeal had sustained the rulings of the
court below in this respect in disregard of uniformly previous
rulings to the contrary.
It was further alleged that, under the provisions of Article
4, and Article 14, Section 1, Clause 2 of the Amenduients to
the Constitution, and under the provisions contained in Section
10 of Article 2 of the Constitution of the State of Illinois, the
petitioners claimed the right, privilege and immunity to be exempt from compulsion to testify against themselves; and that
their conviction in a case where they were compelled to give
testimony against themselves would be a conviction "without
due process of law," contrary to the guarantee of the Constitution of the United States; but that the record showed that
the petitioners were compelled to give testimony rgainst themselves.
(a)That the petitioners, Fielden, Parsons, and Spies, were
put upon the stand as witnesses in their own behalf: that
thereupon, under pretence of cross-examination, the representatives of the State were permitted, over the objection and
protest of those petitioners, to ask of them various questions,
which said petitioners were required by the -court to answer,
which questions were not by way of cross-examination, but
were upon entirely original and new matter, not referred to
nor alluded to upon the direct examination in any way whatever; whereby the said petitioners were compelled to give
testimony against themselves under such pretence of crossexamination, when on trial for a capital offence, and which
testimony said petitioners were also compelled to give, and
the same was received, as against all of the petitioners, who'
were jointly on trial, and were sought to be charged with the
crime of murder, as the result of an alleged conspiracy to
which the petitioners were claimed to be parties; that the
Supreme Court of the State of Illinois had theretofore uniformly held that an accused person who took the stand as a
witness in his own behalf was entitled to be protected in
cross-examination, and that the cross-examination must be
confined to the subject-matter of the direct examination: and

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

that by the decision of the Supreme Court in this respect the
petitioners had been denied the right, privilege and immunity
of exemption from compulsion to give testimony against themselves, claimed at the trial; had been deprived of their lives and
liberty without due -process of law; and had been denied the
equal protection of the laws, contrary to the provisions of the
Constitution of the United States.
(b) That it appeared from the record that the houses and
business places of the petitioners were forcibly and violently
entered, and searched by the officers of the State interested
in the prosecution, without any warrant whatever for such
action, such entries and searches being made long after the
alleged murder charged against the petitioners; that in connection with such forcible entries and searches, various articles
of property belonging to different of the petitioners were
seized without warrant or authority by the said representatives of the State, which articles of property were offered and
received in evidence in the trial court over the objection and
exception of the petitioners; whereby the petitioners through
such unlawful conduct upon the part of the representatives of
the State, were through their property and effects compelled
to give evidence against themselves. The petition particularly
referred in this connection to questions put to Spies with reference to a letter and postal addressed to him by Johann Miost,
which, it was alleged, had been unlawfully taken from Spies'
desk by the 'representative of the State, and it was averred
that the introduction of this letter was in contravention of
the principles laid'down by this court.' This was averred to
have been done contrary *to the provisions of the Fourth, the
Fifth, and the Fourteenth Amendments to the Constitution of
the United States, and of the 10th section of Article 2 of the
Constitution of the State of Illinois.
It was further alleged that the privileges and immunities
of the petitioners under Article 14, Clause 1, of the Amendments to the Constitution of the United States, and under
Sections 4 and 17 of Article 2 of the Constitution of the State
of Illinois had been abridged:
I Referring to Poyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616.

SPIES v. ILLINOIS.
Statement of the Case.

(d)That the act of the State of Illinois of March 27, 1874,
Hurd's ed., 1885, 427, § 274, was as follows:- 274. "An accessory is he who stands by, and aids, abets or assists, or -who,
not being present, aiding, abetting or assisting, hath advised,
encouraged, aided or abetted the perpetration of the crime.
He who thus aids, abets, assists, advises or encourages, shall
be considered as principal and punished accordingly:" that
under this act, petitioners claimed on the trial that mere
advice, not to do the particular crime charged, but advice to
a general revolutionary movement, having in view a change
in the existing order of society, by public speech, writing or
printing, could not make the petitioners guilty of a particular
murder of an individual or individuals nevbr advised nor committed by theiii; but that in order to establish their guilt in
such a case, such alleged general advice must be accompanied
by some encouragement, aiding, abetting or assisting to the
particular act; in other words, that there must be some physical act as distinguished from mere general advice, as theretofore held by the Supreme Court of the State of Illinois : but
the Supreme Court of Illinois sustained the trial court in overruling this claim of the petitioners and thus denied them their
said privileges and immunities.
(b) That the petitioners had asked the trial court to
give
certain instructions in regard to the right of peaceable assemblage which are set forth in the petition; that that court refused
to give them; and that their refusal had I.een sustained by
the Supreme Court, whereby they had denied to the petitioners the right, privilege and immunity of peaceable assemblage claimed by them, contrary to the law of the land, and
whereby was denied to them that due process of law guaranteed to them under the Federal Constitution.
There were also allegations that certain instructions of the
court relating to a conspiracy between the petitioners ; relating to the cross-examination of the defendants and their witnesses in respect to their being "Socialists,'" "Anarchists," &c.;
and in regard to the opinions which they entertained, whether
I Referring

to Cox v. People, 82 Ill. 191, at page 192.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

socialistic, communistic or anarchical, were, in view of c. 38,
§ 46, of th6 Criminal Code of Illinois expost facto law, in violation of Section 10, Article 1, of the Constitution of the United
States knd of Section 11 of Article 2 of the Constitution -of
the State of Illinois: also allegations that certain other instructions relating to the weight of evidence and the proof of
a conspiracy were given in violation of the same provisions in
the Constitution of the United States; but these points were
not pressed in the briefs or arguments.
It was also alleged that the petitioners claimed in the trial
court that the provision in c. 38, §§ 274, 275, of the Statutes of
Illinois, Hurd's ed., 1885, relating to accessories, was inconsistent with, in conflict with,,in violation of, and repugnant to,
the provisions of the Constitution of the United States and
void, as not informing the petitioners, and not within the scope
and meaning of, anc-not in compliance with the provision of
the Constitution of the rtited States, that they should be informed of the nature anc. cause of the accusation: but the
Criminal Court and the Supreme Court of the State of Illinois,
the highest court of the State in which a decision in the suit
could be had, in a final judgment passed in said court, decided
in favor of the validity of said statute.
It was also.charged that the indictments did not inform the
petitioners of the nature and cause of the accusations against
them as required by the Sixth Amendment to the Constitution,
and that consequently the prisoners had been deprived of their
liberty and were -bout to be deprived of their lives, without
due process of law.
It was also charged that on the exhaustion of the regular
panel, a person was appointed to summon the required talesmen; that the petitioners' counsel asked for instructions to
him to summon them from the body of the county; that
these were refused and that he was directed to exercise his
own judgment in getting the best class of men; that "while
summoning talesmen from among bankers, capitalists, wholesale and retail merchants, brokers, board of trade dealers,
clerks, salesmen, &c., he excluded in his selections substantially

SPIES v. ILLINOIS.
Statement of the Case.

the entire class of daily wageworkers from his special venire;"
that the petitioners duly objected-to this at the trial, and after
verdict and judgment made it the ground of a motion for a
new trial, but that the objection and the motion were overruled; that this action of the trial court was specially assigned
for error in the said Supreme Court of the State of Illinois;
but that the said Supreme Court of the State of Illinois, by
their final judgment and order in said cause, overruled the
claim asserted and advanced by petitioners in this behalf, and
denied to the petitioners in the premises the right, privilege
and immunity claimed by them respectively of trial by an
impartial jury; and by their said final judgment deprived the
petitioners respectively of life and property, and of liberty and
property, without due process of law, and also denied to the
petitioners respectively "the equal protection of the laws"
claimed by them; the said judgment and decision of said
Supreme Court of Illinois being adverse to and in denial of tbe
rights, privileges and immunities claimed by the petitioners
respectively under, and to them guaranteed by, the Constitution of the United States, as above particularly invoked and
set forth.
It was also averred that all the defendants were confined
in jail under order of court when the sentence was passed,
and none of them were allowed to be present then and there,
nor were their counsel notified to be present at said time, and
were not present, and that no notice of the determination of
the Supreme Court of Illinois of their application for a new
trial was given to them or to their counsel, or to any one of
them; and no opportunity was afforded them to mcve in arrest
of judgment before sentence was passed.
The petition prayed "for the allowance of a writ of error
herein, and for such other process as is provided by law, to
the end that the errors aforesaid done the petitioners in and
by the proceedings, judgnaent and order of said Supreme
Court of the State of Illinois in said cause, and as well by said
criminal court of Cook County, may be corrected -by the Supreme Court of the United States."

OCTOBER TERAI,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

Mn. JUSTICE .JARLAN, to whom the petition was presented
on the 21st October, 1887, said, in Chambers:

This is an application for .a writ of error to bring up for
review, by the Supreme Court of the United States, a judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of Illinois, involving
the liberty of one of the petitioners, and the lives of the others.
The time fixed for executing the sentence of death is, I am
informed, the 11th day of November.
Under the circumstances, it is my duty to facilitate an early
decision of any question in the case of which the Supreme
Court of the United States may properly take cognizance. If
I should allow a writ of error, it is quite certain that counsel
would have to repeat, before that court, the argument they
propose now to make before me. On the other hand, if I
should refuse the writ, the defendants would be at liberty to
renew their application before any other Justice of the
Supreme Court'; and, as human life and liberty are involved,
that Justice might feel obliged, notwithstanding a previous
refusal of the writ, to look into the case and determine for
himself whether a writ of error should be allowed. If he, also,
refused, the defendants could take the papers to some other
member of the court; and so on, until each Justice had been
applied to, or until some Justice granted the writ. In this
way, it is manifest that delays might occur that would be very
embarrassing, in view of the short time intervening between
this day and the date fixed for carrying into effect the judgment of the state court.
As the 6ase is one of a very serious character in whatever aspect it may be regarded, I deem it proper to make an order,
which'I now do, that counsel present this application to the
court, in open session, to the end that early and final action
may be had upon the question whether that court has jurisdiction to review the judgment in this case. There is no reason
why it mpy not be presented to the court at its session to-day.
Counsel may state that the application is made to the court
pursuant to my directions.

SPIES v. ILLINOIS.
Mr. Tucker's Argument for Petitioners.

Mr. R2oger A. Pryorfor petitioners, then presented the petition to the court on the same 21st day of October, and argued
" in support of it. The court took it under advisement, and, on
the 24th of October, 1887,
M . CmiEF JUSTIcE W.ArrE made the following announce-

ment:
Following the precedent in Iwitchell v. [Eke Commonwealth,
7 Wall. 321, we have permitted this motion to be made in
open court, at the suggestion of Mr. Justice Htarlan, to whom
the' application was first presented, on account ,of the urgency
of the case and its importance. But, as was said in that case,
"writs of error to the state courts have never been allowed as
of right," that is to say, as of course, and it is the duty of him
to wh6m an application for such a writ is made to ascertain,
from an examination of the record of the state court, "whether
any question, cognizable here on appeal, was made and decided
in the proper court of the State, and whether the case on the
face. of the record will justify the allowance of the writ."
Deeming that the proper practice, we will hear counsel mn
Thursday next, in support of thismmotion, not only upon the
point whether any Federal questions were actually made and
decided in the Supreme Court of the State, but also upon the
character of those questions, so that we may determine
whether they are such 'as to make it proper for us to bring
the case here for review.
We have caused the Attorney General of Illiiois to be informed that the motion will be heard at the time stated.
On Thursday, the 27th, and on Friday, the 28th, of October,
1887, argument was had.
Mr.. J. Rando/ph [FTweTer for all the petitioners. Ar&. XM.
Salomon) .Mr. I. P.. Blak and Mr. Roger A. Pryor were
with .him on the opening brief.
I. Was a Federal question raised and decided in the state
court? The act of 1867, 14 Stat. 385, c. 28, § , which -took
the place of the 25th section of the judiciary act of 1789, pro-

144-

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Mr. Tucker's Argument for Petitioners.

vides for a writ of error to the highest court of a State, where
is drawn in question: (1) The validity of a statute of or authority exercised under any State, on the ground that the same is
repugnant to the Constitution of the .United States, and the
decision is in favor of the validity; (2) Where a right; title,
privilege, or immunity is claimed under the Constitution of
the United States and the decision is against the right, title,
privilege, or immunity specially set up or claimed. At the
time of its passage the Fourteenth Amendment had already
been proposed by Congress, and this act was no doubt passed
in preparation for the peculiar questions which would arise
under the amendment. The terms of the act and this coincidence indicate a liberal construction of it in regard to appeals.
In .iurdock v. 3lemphis, 20 Wall. 590, the court say the law
intended to give the litigant the right, if he desired it, to have
his claim under the Constitution decided by this court. The
writ does not issue of course but of right, where this court hhs
jurisdiction. Its jurisdictidn being settled, the writ of error is
a writ of right. Conflict gives jurisdiction. Repugnancy requires reversal. Armstrong v. Treasurer,16 Pet. 281; Callan
v. Afay, 2 Black, 541, 543; Furman v. Nichol, 8 Wall. 44, 56;
Pennywitt v. EBton, 15 Wall. 380; -rall v. Jordan,15 Wall.
393; Arrowsmith v. Harmony, 118 U. S. 194; fHayes v. .Arissoui, 120 U. S. 68. The appeal is a matter of common right.
Bud v. -Fan]aess, 8 Wheat. 313. Referring then to Twitchell
v. Tue commonawealth, 7 Wall. 324, and Bohanan -v..Yebraska,
118 U. S. 231, 31. Tucker continued:
The course of decisions in this court is, I insist, uniform in
allowing a writ of error upon claim of repugnancy; and this
is laid down in the civil case of -turdock v. _Itemphis, supra,
and the same rule would infavorem vitce be upheld in a criminal case, especially a capital one. Even under the statute of
1789, § 95, the rule as to the mode in which the question
should be raised was very liberal. The special clause of the
Constitution to-which the alleged repugnancy existed need not
be stated. Bridge Proprietorsv..1Hoboken -Co., 1 Wall. 116;
Furman v. 1Vkchol, 8 Wall. 56; Walker --. Sauvinet, 92 U. S.
90. If it appears in the lbwer court of the State or in.the high-

SPIES v. ILLINOIS.
Mr. Tucker's Argument for Petitioners.

est court: Crowell v. Randell, 10 Pet. 368; Craig v. .fissouri,
4 Pet. 410; Afinnesota v. Bachelder, 1 Wall. 109; .Ikoore V.
illinois, 14 How. 13, (where point was first taken in highest
court of State,) and without clear reference to the conflict, if
necessarily inferred. Same cases; see specially Satterlee v.
.fJatthewson, 2 Pet. 380; Boughon v. Bank, 104: U." . 427. -_f
an act of Congress was applicabl. to the case, it will suffice.
Same cases; Ifiller v. Nicholls, 4 Wheat. 311; Inm. Co. v.
Treasurer,11 Wall. 204; .XAurrayv. Charleston, 96'U. S. 432;
Dugger v. Bocock, 104 U. S. 596, 603; 7furdoel v. femphis,
spra; Tennessee v. Davis, 100 U. S. 257; Chicago Life Ins.
Co. v. NYeedles, 113 U. S.574; Brown v. Colorado, 106 U. S,
95. Reference may be had to the opinion of the court. Gross
v. .ortgage .Co., 108 U. S. 477; Phila. Fire Association v.
New York, 119 U. S.110.
This court has not only never been astute to deny its jurisdiction, but has been sometimes astute to find a ground on
which to extend the protection of the Constitution to him who
claims that his rights have been defeated by its violation. How
much more so when life depends on the question: when the
question is whether a man shall die because the supreme law
has been overthrown by the judgment or law of a State ? And
if this has been the rule under the act of 1789, a fortiori,it
must be under the act of 1867. The latter act does not use the
words found in the former, which confines the jurisdiction to
cases where the question appears on %he face of the record.
.vurdock v. .Memphis, supra.
Having thus established the right to the writ of error if
the question of repugnancy be raised expressly or by fair and
just implication, I ask attention to the language of the act of
1867: A writ of error lies: (1) If the repugnancy of a statute
of a State, or of an authority exercised under any State, to the
Constitution of the United States be claimed, or (2) A right,
privilege, or immunity is claimed under the Constitution of
the United States, and the decision of %he state court is
against the claim.
I maintain, therefore, (1) If the constitutionality of a state
law was involved, or if the construction of that law by a court
VOL. Cx=-10

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Mr. Tucker's Argument for Petitioners.

exercising authority under the State, was repugnant to the
Constitution, the jurisdiction of this court attaches.

It is not

only when a law is repugnant to the Constitution, but when
the law, though constitutional, is so construed by state courts
as to make its operation unconstitutional, thata writ of error
lies. Yall v, De Cuir", 95 U. S. 485 ; United States v. ffarris,
106 U. S. 629; Firginia v. 1-ives, 100 U. S. 313; Ex
parte Virginia, 100 U. S. 339; Strauder v. West Virginia,
100 U. S. 303; Neal v. Delaware,103 U.-S. 370; Civil Rights
-Cases, 109 U. S. 3;- Yick TVo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S.356, and
cases there cited. But where the conflict between the law
or the state court, denying the right, privilege, or immunity
arises, as in this case, under the Fourteenth Amendment, a
very wide field of discussion opens before us, to which I invite
the attention of the court.
It is settled by the cases above cited from 100 U. S. and by
.Neal v. Delaware, supra, that if the legislative, executive, or
judicial departments, or any officers of a State, so exercise
their authority as to violate the personal rights secured by the
Fourteenth Amendment, it is the act of the State and is void.
The Fourteenth Amendment declares that no "State shall
deprive any person of life, liberty, or property without due
process of law." In Hurtado v. California,110 U. S.516, this
court held that those words did not necessarily require an
indictment by a grand jury in a state court in order to a
legal conviction in a capital case, but that an accusation by
a preliminary examination provided for under the state law
was equivalent to an indictment; and based its conclusion
upon the expositions of the common law prior to the Revolution, especially on the judgment of Lord Holt in Rex v.
Berchet, 1 Shower, 106, and the argument of the reporter of
that case; citing also Rex v. Ingham, 5 B. & S. 257; and also
explaining the judgment of this court in Murray v. H~oboken,
18 How. 272. The opinion further compared the same words
in the Fifth Amendment, where they are coupled with an
express provision for a grand jury in capital and infamous
crimes, with them as used in the Fourteenth Amendment,
where no such provision was made.

SPIES v. ILLINOIS.
Mr. Tucker's Argument for Fetitioners.

But I find nowhere in that opinion, nor elsewhere in the
decisions of this court, that a jury trial in criminal cases in
state courts is not required by the words "due process of
law," as the right of every man upon a trial for his life or
liberty; and it would be a waste of words to argue that these
words in the Fourteenth Amendment do secure to every
person in every State a trial by jury before his life or liberty
be taken away. The whole history of the common law as
our ancestors brought it with them to this country; the
memorable Declaration of Rights, on the 14th of October,
1774, in the first Continental Congress asserting it; the Bills
of Rights of all the young Revolutionary Commonwealths;
the arraignment of George III in the Declaration of Independence for its denial; the provision in the Ordinance of
1787, by which it was secured to every Northwestern State
as its precious heritage; the uniform and concurrent political
and judicial opinion of all jurists and -statesmen in Great
Britain and America for centuries, make it a mockery of
words to hold that this language of Magna Charta in the
Fourteenth Amendment left jury trial out of the term "due
process of law" where life or liberty were in issue. See Blackstone Com. 349; 3 Story on Const. § 1783. "Due process"
means consistency with common law right. There must be
an impartial jury. Wharton on American Law, § 566. "Due
process" means jury trial, made so by Magna Charta. 1
Kent, 612, 613, 614; Regina v. Baldry, 2 Denison, C. C. 430,
444; R egina v. Jarvis,L. R. 1, C. C. 96. So being twice put in
jeopardy is against common law right. Regiba v. Bird. 2
Denison, C. C. 94, 216.
In Xfu ray v. ffoboken, 18 low., the question was not, is
a jury within "due process of law," but, can there be "due
process" without it,
even as to property? The implicit meaning of the discussion in that case is that "due process of law"
meant jury trial as essential in criminal cases. Now, if jury
trial be secured to a person charged with crime as a part of
"due process of law," what kind of jury is he entitled to? Is
it a packed jury. or an impartial one? See Marshall,. C. J.,
in Burr's Case, Robertson, Phila. 1808. Clearly the meaning

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Mr. Tucker's Argument for Petitioners.

of trial by jury, as one of common law right, must comprehend
that it shall be composed of impartial men-men without bias
or prejudice, men fair and equal in their judgment between
the State and the accused. And we claimed in the court of
trial and in the highest court of the State, that these prisoners
will be deprived of life and liberty without "due process of
law,", if a partial jury was packed upon them by the law of
the State, or b the construction of that law by the courts
of the State. For if the law, by judicial construction, provides an improper jury - a packed one -it is unconstitutional
and void, and the judgment must be reversed; and on the
other hand, if it be constitutional as construed, and the state
court so enforces it as to make it a deprivation of life without
due process of law, still the State has done the deed, and the
judgment must be reversed.
And further: If the law, as applied to other citizens, by
the highest court, differs essentially from the rulings in this
case, so as to show that the protection afforded to others was
denied to thee prisoners, then they have been denied the equal
protection of the laws by the State itself, contrary to the
Fourteenth Amendment. And still further: If the constitution of the State, intended to protect all alike, is violated in
this case and set at naught, the State has denied the equal protection of the law to these prisoners, and the judgment must
be reversed.
One other provision of the Fourteenth Amendment will
now be considered which is more comprehensive in its protection of personal rights than the one just considered. It is that:
"cNoState shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge
the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States."
The meaning -of this clause turns chiefly on what shall be
deemed "privileges and immunities of citizens of the United
States." A privilege is a special and peculiar right. An immunity is an exemption or relief from burden or charge.
These words are used once in the original Constitution, Art.
•4, § 2; and in respect to those privileges and immunities which
are enjoyed by citizens of a State. What they are has been
judicially defined partially in the judgent of Mr. Justice

SPIES v. ILLINOIS.
31r. Tucker's Argument for Petitioners.

Washington in the case of Corftec v. Coryell, 4 Wash. C. C.
371. He says: "We have no hesitation in confining these
expressions to those privileges and immunities which are fundamental, which belong of right to the citizens of all free governments, and which have at all times been enjoyed by citizens
of the several States which compose the Union from the time
of their becoming free, sovereign, and independent." This
definition was accepted as correct by this court in the iSaumgkter-House Caes, 16 Wall. 36, by all the judges; both those
who concurred in the judgment and those who dissented. An
historic view of the question was judicially taken in that case,
and I venture to follow the same course.
When the Constitution was proposed by the Federal Convention September 111, 1787, to the several States for ratification, many of them in their conventions expressed an apprehension that by enlarged construction of the powers delegated
to the General Government, and by enforced implication, the
rights of the States and of the people would be endangered.
The preamble of the Congress proposing them to the States
shows this. It is stated that "the conventions of a number
of the States having at the time of their adopting the Constitution declared a desire, in order to prevent misconstruction
or abuse of its powers, that further declaratory and restrictive
clauses should be added," &c. Those amendments have been
held, chiefly upon the basis of this historic fact, to be confined*
to their operation as limitations on the Federal power over
States and citizens.
But when the late war closed and all slaves were made free by
the Thirteenth Amendment, the non-slave-holding States apprehended (whether justly or not is not here in question) that the
late slave-holding States would make, or enforce already existing laws abridging the rights of the African race; and, jealous of state power, as our fathers had been.jealous of Federal
power, they gave American citizenship to the former slaves,
and prohibited the States from abridging the privileges and
immunities of persons holding such citizenship. Congress
made a ratification of this amendment a precondition to the
admission of the Southern States to representation in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Mr. Tucker's Argument for Petitioners.

Union. I may say that there was nothing in a restraint on
the power of the States as to personal rights which was inconsistent even with the genius of the original Constituti&n. In
the freedom of intercourse and commerce desired and provided
for-in the intercommunication of citizenship between the
States -in the provisions for the extradition of criminals and
slaves -in the denial to the States of power to coin money,
to pass ex post facto laws and bills of attainder, or laws impairing the obligation of contracts, our fathers meant to protect a citizen of New York while in Virginia, and vice versa,
from the injurious effects of state laws on the rights of the
citizens of every member of the Union; and hence when the
Fourteenth Amendment secured the due process of law within
the States for the citizens of all the States, it only extended the
provisions already made in the original Constitution: because,
as Taney, C. J., said: "For all the great purposes for which
the Federal government was established we are one people,
with one common country; we axe citizens of the United
States." Passenger Oases, 7 Row. 283.
Looking, then, to the purpose in view in adopting this Fourteenth Amendment, and to the historic condition of things
which suggested it, and to the general consistency of its purpose with that which led to the original Constitution, I cannot
think that we can go wrong in holding, as a canon for its true
-construction, that it shall have a liberal interpretation in favor
of personal rights and liberty. If the views of the minority
of the court in the Slaughter--House Cases, 16 Wall. 36, be
adopted, the argument I shall present would only be the
stronger, but I shall rest upon that of the majority, as above
cited.
I hold the privilege and immunity of a citizen of the United
States to be such as have their recognition in or guaranty from
the Constitution of the United States. Take then the declared
object of the Preamble, "to secure the blessings of. liberty to
ourselves and our posterity," we ordain this Constitution that is, we grant powers, declare rights, and create a Union of
States. See the provisions as to personal liberty in the States
guarded by provision as to ex2postfacto laws, &c.; as to con-

SPIES v. ILLINOIS.
Mr. Tucker's Argument for Petitioners."

tract rights-

against States' power to impair them, and as'to

legal tender; the security for habeas corpus; the limits imposed
on Federal power in the Amendments and in the original
Constitution as to trial by jury, &c.; the'Declaration of
Rights-

the privilege of freedom of speech and press-

of

peaceable assemblages of the people -of keeping and bearing
arms- of immunity from search and seizure- inmunty
frorm self-acousation, from second trial - and privilege of trial
by due process of law. In these last we find the privileges
and immunities secured to the citizen by the Constitution. It
may have been that the States did not secure them to -allmen.
It is true that they did not. Being secured by the Constitution of the United States'to all, when they were not, and were
not required to be, secured by every State, they are, as said
in the Slaughter-House Cases, privileges and immunities of
citizens of the United States.
The position I take is this: Though originally the first ten
Amendments were adopted as limitations on Federal power, yet
in so far as they secure and recognize fundamental rightscommon law rights -of the man, they make them privileges
and immunities of the man as citizen of the United States, and
cannot now be abridged by a State under the Fourteenth
Amendment. In other words, while the ten Amendments, as
limitations on power, only apply to the Federal goverinent,
and not to the States, yet in so far as they declare or recogrize
rights of persons, these rights are theirs, as citizens of the
United States, and the Fourteenth Amendment as to such
rights limits state power, as the ten Amendments had limited
Federal power.
The history referred to shows that these ten Amendments
had a double purpose: first, as a declaration of fundamental
"rights,and second, to prohibit their infringement by
the Federal authority. I do not,-in this proposition, controvert the
doctrine of this court since Barron v. Balthnore, ' Pet. 243';
but I maintain that all the declared privileges and immunities
in these ten Amendments of a fundmental nuture and of common law right, not in terms applicable to Federal authority
only, are privileges and immunities of citizens of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Mr. Tucker's Argument for Petitioners.

States, which the Fourteenth Amendment forbids avery State
to abridge. 7aughter-House Cases, at pages '79, 89, 93, 97, 98,
and 118 ; Bartemeyer v. Iowa, 18 Wall. 129; United States v.
Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 542. These declarations of the court
show that the rights declared in the first ten Amendments are
to be. regarded as privileges and immunities of citizens of the
United States, which, as I insist, are protected as such by the
Fourteenth Amendment.
It will be objected that Hurtado v. (alifornia is contrary
to this view. It is not. That was decided on a clause of the
Fifth Amendment, which in its terms applied only to Federal
courts-that is, it referred to cases in the laud and naval
forces, which belong only to the United States' jurisdiction.
ifoscitur a sociis. So, in Walker v. Sauvinet, 92 U. S. 90, as
'to the Seventh Amendment. In terms it applies to Federal
courts - and yet in that case Field and Clifford, JJ., dissented.
Presserv. P71inois,116 U. S. 252, did not decide that the right
to keep and bear arms was not a privilege of a citizen of the
United States which a State might therefore abridge, but that
a State could under its police power forbid organizations of
armed men, dangerous to the public peace.
This conclusion is confirmed by the consideration that the
propounders of the Fourteenth Amendment were looking to
the protection of the freedmen from the peril of legislation in
the South against those fundamental rights of free speech; of
freedom from unreasonable searches; of double jeopardy; of
self-accusation; of .not being confronted with witnesses and
having benefit of counsel and the like: and if these are construed as the privileges and immunities of citizens of the
United States, the Fourteenth Amendment secures them;
otherwise not. The fundamental nature of these rights, as
common law rights, which were recognized at the time of the
Revolution as the inherited rights of all the States may be seen
by reference to Tucker's Blackstone App., p. 305, Story, Constitution, § 1779, 1781-2-3. As to searches, self-accusation,
&c., see Story, § 1895; May's Const. History of England, Vol.
3, Ch. 11; and especially Boydv. United States, 116 U. S. 616.
In the Bill of Rights of Virginia, June 12, 1776, George

SPIES v. ILLINOIS.
Mr. Tucker's Argument for Petitioners.

Mason took the resolution of the House of Commons for the
10th article. So in the other States.
The connection between the immunity from unreasonable
search for papers and self-accusation is pointed out strongly in
the opinion in Boyd v. United States, and in that case and in
the authorities above quoted they were held to be fundamental
common law rights, and as such privileges and immunities of
the citizens of the United States. So that, whether the compulsion to testify as to the papers illegally seized upon, in the
unreasonable search in this case, be regarded as a violation of
a privilege or immunity of a citizen of the United States, or as
contrary to "due process of law," it is equally vicious, unconstitutional, and void. I repeat -if, under due process, compulsory self-accusation is disallowed; or if it be a privilege or
immunity of a citizen of the United States not to be selfaccused by compulsion; in either case, the Fourteenth
Amendment condemns this judgment.
One word more on this point. If the State cannot abridge
the privilege of a citizen of the United States, the same limitation applies to 'n alien, for no person shall be denied the equal
protection of the laws. So that all of these defendants ar'e,
whether citizens or aliens, alike protected from the abridgment of these privileges and immunities of citizens.
Enough has been said to justify the following conclusions:
(1) A trial by an impartial jury. is secured'by the Fouriteenth
Amendment to these prisoners. (2) A trial without self-accusation, either by compulsion to give evidence or by the production of papers illegally seized, is also secured.
But suppose I am wrong in this. If the search and selfaccusation were not repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment,
yet it was repugnant to the constitution of Illinois. Now, if
the constitution of Illinois is denied to these -Prisoners,when
accorded to others, we are denied the equal protection of the
laws of Illinois. In other words, I insist (1) If anything is done
not according to due process of law, or to abridge the privileges
or immunities of citizens of the United States, contrary to the
Fourteenth Amendment, the writ must be allowed and the
judgment reversed. (2) If the action of the court was not in

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Mr. Tucker's Argument for Petitioners.

violation of the clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment referred
to, yet if the rights accorded and secured by the constitution
and laws of Illinois be refused to these men, they are denied
the equal protection of the laws, and the writ must be allowed
and the judgment reversed.
Upon the law of selecting jurors and challenges I refer to
Q ee v. llepbutra, 7 Oranch, 290; Reynolds v. United States,
98 U. S. 145, 154, citing Lord Coke, " that a juror must be
indifferent, as he stands unsworn," and also Marshall, C. J_., in
Burr's trial,416; and to Hayes v. _.Aissouri, 120 U. S. 68, 70,
Field, J., on the value of peremptory challenges. See also
radical differences between the New York law and this one.
On this last point one remark is proper. If a talesman be
r jected for cause' improperly, and a good and unobjectionable
juror be obtained, no complaint can be made. But it is different if such talesman be adjudged good by the court, when
he should be rejected, and the injury to the accused is real,
though it cannot be estimated. This arises from the nature
of the procedure. The accused has a right to secure an impartial jury by excluding all whom he can prove to be bad, or
suspects without being able to adduce such proof. As to the
former, he challenges for cause; as to the latter, of his own
will. Where the latter are limited in number, wrong rulings
against his challenge for cause circumscribes his peremptory
piivilege, by forciffg him to choose between the party challe i e(I for cause without effect and one against whom he has
fo-1)roof, but only suspicion.
'[Mr. Tucker then examined the facts in the record, and
claimed that they showed that the prisoners were tried by a
pdv']ed jury, and consequently were denied "due process of
law." In regard to the seizure, he claimed that it was done
withut warrant and ivas illegal, citing Boyd v. Uvdted States,
. uy)r(a; and in regard to the cross-examination of Spies, he
maintained that it was illegal, that it was not "due process of
law." and was an abridgment of his immunity.]
II. The court ask us whether ti record justifies a review
of the case. We respectfully ask, Why not? If the questions
were raised, and the jurisdiction established, why should these

SPIES v. ILLINOIS.
Air. Pryor's Argument for Petitioners.

prisoners be denied a hearing, which they desire, before this
court? .Murdock v. fenphis, suora. We cannot be expected
to urge grounds for reversal, on a motion to be heard. We
ask to bd heard in order to obtain a reversal. Hearing must
precede affirmance or reversal. To discuss the merits in order
to show our right to a writ, is not only premature, but a
denial of the right of appeal.
Here is a record of two millions of words. It is unprinted.
Counsel have not read -cannot read it. The court has not
(lone so-could not have (lone so. In the dark, we pray an
appeal, because we say the Constitution condemns our condemonation. Can we in this condition be expected to prove
that the judgnent should be reversed, when we only ask to
have a chance to print the record and show the injustice done
to us, upon which injustice we claim the writ? If granted, we
will on the hearing establish our right to reverse the judgment.
.r. Roger A. Pryor for the petitioners, submitted a separate brief, in addition to the general brief signed by him with
the other counsel. In this lie contended: I. That the Illinois
statute is not "due process of law," within the meaning of
that provision in the Constitution, citing .Mlurray v. flioboken,
IS How. 272; Davidson v. -ATew Or 'ans?, 96 U. S. 97; 1Joke
v. Ienderson, 4 Devereaux, Law, 1 [ C. 25 Am. Dec.. 677];
Wynhamer v. People, 13 N. Y. 378; Taylol, v. Porter, 4"
I ill, 140 [S. C. 11 Am. Dec. 274]; Ilagarv. Reclamation Distriet, 111 U. S. 701; Pennoyer v. iY"ef, 95 U. S. 714; Ifurtado
v. California,110 U. S. 516; Kennard v. Louisiana, 92 U. S.
480; Brown v. Comnm b.siones, 50 Mississippi, 468; ]?owan. v.
,State, 30 Wis. 129; Ilopt v. Utah, 110 IT. S. 574; -In re
Ziebold, 23 Fed. Rep. 791; Ex parte .Bain, 121 U. S. 1.
LI That "due process of law" implies and requires trial by
an impartial jury. Wlrork v. State, 2 Ohio St. 296 [S. .
59 Am. Dec. 671]; People v. Johnson, 2 Parker Cr. Cas. 322;
People v. Fisher,2 Parker Cr. Cas. 40 2; Pe ple v. Toynbee,
2 Parker Or. Cas. 490, 562; Cancemi v. People, IS N. Y. 128;
Ex parte 1Jfilligan, 4 Wall. 2;, United Sfttes V. P eid, 12
LIow. 361; Olive v. State, 11 Neb. 1; Hayes v. .Afissouri,

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Mr. Pryor's Argument for Petitioners.

120 U. S. 68; Reynolds v. United States, 98 U. S. 155;
Cauenzi v. People, 16 N. Y. 501. III. That the Ilhnois
statute makes competent a juror with a preconceived and
present opinion as to the guilt of the accused. HEenderso
v. The 3rayor, 92 U. S. 259; Rall v. De Cuir, 95 U. S.
485; Stevens v. Tie People, 38 Xich. 742; Hfayes v. .Missouri, szTra. IV. That it is an ancient and inviolable principle of the criminal jurisprudence of this country that the
accused shall be presumed to be innocent until his guilt is
shown, and, by consequence, that the burden of proving his
guilt is on the prosecution. Vynharner v. People, supra;
Cmmings v. I1issouri,4 Wall. 277. V. By the Fourteenth
Amendment of the United States Constitution, which forbids
any State "to make or enforce any law which shall abridge
the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States,"
the Illinois statute is condemned as repugnant to that provision of the fundamental law. Ev parte Virginia, 100 U. S.
339. VL The record discloses to demonstration that some
of the petitioners were,- by the production in evidence of
papers and property unlawfully seized and taken, compelled
to be witnesses against themselves. See Boyd v. United
States, 116 U. S. 616. That the action of the state judiciary in these respects is the action of the State is well
settled. Ex parte Firginia,srpra; Strauderv. West Vi'ginia,
100 U. S. 303; V.irginia v. Rives, 100 U. S. 313; 1 eal v.
-Delaware,103 U. S. 370; Civil Rights Cases, 109 U. S. 3;
Yiels Mo v. H~opkins, 118 U. S.356. VII. The effect of the
provision in the Fourteenth Amendment that "no State shall
deprive any person of life, liberty or property without due
process of law," is to transfer the fundamental rights and
liberties enumerated in the original ame'ndments and incorporate them in the Fourteenth Amendment; so that all the
fundamental rights, privileges and immunities of American
citizenship recognized in the original Constitution, are now
placed under the regis of the national sovereignty; and not
one of those rights, privileges and immunities can be invaded
or violated by state action without affording the victim the
right of recourse to this tribunal for redress of the wrong.

SPIES v. ILLINOIS.
Mr. Butler's Argument for Petitioners Spies and Fielden.

Mr&. George llfsnt, and -Mr. Julius S. Grinnell, opposing,
cited: I. Under the general head that the record does not
show that any Federal question is involved: .Aturdock v.
.emphis, 20 Wall. 590; Chouteau v. Gibson, 111 U. S. 200;
GermaniaIns. Co. v. Wisconsin, 119 U. S. 473; United States
v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 542; Walker v. Sauvinet, 92 U. S.
90; Presserv. Illinois, 116 U. S. 252; Yick Mo v. Hlopkins,
118 U. S. 356; Afissouri v. 1ewis, 101 U. S. 22; HNayes v.
.Missouri,120 U. S. 68, and cases there cited; Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27; iSlaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 36;
Arrowsmith v. HTarmoning, 118 U. S. 194-; Iehqh Watrm Co.
v. Easton, 121 U. S. 388. I. Under the general head that
it does not appear from the record that a Federal question
was raised and decided in the state court: Starin v. Vewo
York, 115 U. S. 248; Germania Ins. Co. v. IVisconsin, supra;
Ames v. .Kansas, 111 U. S. 449; Detroit City Railway v.
ruthard, 114 U. S. 265; Clhouteau v. Gibson,'sTra; Santa
C'ruz County v. Santa C)-uz Railway, 111 U. S. 361; _1fur(lock v. .Memphis, supra; Twitchell v. Commonwealth, 7 Wall.
321; Fox v. Ohio, 5 How. 410; Smith v. Maryland, 18 How.
71 ; Withers v. Buckey, 20 How. 84. II. As to the validity
of the jury act, other States have enacted similar laws, and
their constitutionality has been sustained; notably in New
York: Stokes v. People, 53 N. Y. 164; Thomas v. People, 67
N. Y. 218; Phelps v. People, 72 N. Y. 334; Greenfteld v.
People, 74 N. Y. 277; .Balbov. People, 80 N. Y. 484; Cox v.
People, 80 N. Y. 500; People v. Otto, 101 N. Y. 690.
M'. Benjamin F. Butler (for the petitioners Spies and
Fielden only) contended that all the points raised by his
associate counsel applied to Spies and Fielden; and that, in
addition there were some considerations, not appertaining to
the others, but which applied to them.
It canncot be doubted that at the time of their adoption, the
first ten Amendments of the Constitution, in their inhibition,
had no effect upon the acts of a state court so far as concerned
proceedings in a trial in it. And if we relied only on those
inhibitions, no Federal question would arise.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Mr. Butler's Argument for Petitioners Spies and Fielden.

Citizens of the United States, however, then and still enjoyed privileges and immunities coming from an older and
higher source than the Constitution. That instrument, Article 4i section 2, speaks of these privileges and immunities.
They were inherent in each citizen of a State or the United
States: -inherited from Great Britain under the common
law and Magna Charta. Among them were (1) Trial by jury
for high crimes; (2) Exemption from search and seizure without warrant of law; (3) Protection from self-accusation when
a witness; and (4) Guaranty against being deprived of life,
liberty, or property without due process of law. Thus all the
rights, privileges and immunities which belonged to a' British
subject under Magna Charta, belonged to each citizen of the
United States; and as new citizens of the United States were
made by naturalization these rights came to them. Thus matters stood until the year 1866.
The condition of the negro after the war induced the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment, the effect of which was,
to clothe all the citizens of the United States with equal privileges and immunities which no State could abridge. If I am
correct, that these immunities and privileges are the privileges of a citizen of a State, then, by the Fourteenth Amendment they become the privileges and immunities of citizens of
every State; because every citizen of the United States becomes a citizen of some State; and by the 4th article of the
Constitution, as lately interpreted by this court, is entitled to
the privileges and immunities of a citizen in the several States,
and thus by the Federal law, the citizens of all the States are
clothed with the panoply of these privileges and immunities.
The State is bound to so make and enforce its laws that all
the rights, privileges and immunities of the citizen of the
United States shall be secured to him; and if it fails to do
so, then circumstances may arise under which proper process
should go from the Federal court to the state court to correct
that error, under such limitations as may be imposed by the
statute authorizing the process.
Now in regard to the rights, privileges and immunities of
these petitioners which were involved in the proceedings in

,SPIES v. ILLINOIS.
Mr. Butler's Argument for Petitioners Spies and Fielden.

the state courts, nothing need be said as to protection from
unlawful seizure; no doubt has ever arisen about that. The
meaning and scope of the provision against self-accusation are
also well understood. Not to be deprived of life, liberty or
property, "without due process of law," is not so accurately
defined. It is however but another form of the expression of
the common law laid down by Lord Coke, jer legem tenroq, by
the law of the land; that is of the whole land; not the law of
a county, or of a province, or of any one state, but the law
of the whole land. That is the law of the land, and was so
understood by our forefathers as due process of law. Any
other meaning given to the words "due process of law," as
used in the Fourteenth Amendment, would make it simply
ridiculous and frivolous because any State may enact a due
process of law, according to that State, by which a man's life
may be taken, from which not a single right, privilege or immunity of citizenship can protect him. And any law a State
may make, after the passage of the Amendment, for dealing
with the rights of a citizen of the United States becomes
wholly inoperative; because the "law of the land" must forever remain fixed as at that moment, not to be changed in regard to its citizens without a change of organic law; 'and for
some purposes not to be even so changed.
If there could be any doubt as to the extent of the privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States, Spies
and Fielden stand upon another ground which is impregnble.
One is a citizen of Germany, the other of Great Britain; and
there being no evidence that either was naturalized, he must
be presumed to be an alien. Hcauenstein v. Lym4 am, 100 U. S.
483. They are entitled to the privileges and immunities
granted to them by treaties of the United States,' which, once
conferred, cannot be taken away by municipal legislation. For.
1 On the 5th November, 1887, Mr. Butler wrote to the Reporter "I
desire, if you see no incompatibility witl your duty, that when you make
your report you will refer to the treaty of 1794 between the United States
and Great Britain, Fielden having been born in England, and to the Treaty
of Amity and Commerce between Prussia and the United States, dated May
1, 1828, Article I, and also Article IX, the 'most-favored nation' clause."

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Mr. Butler's Argument for Petitioners Spies and Fielden.

a treaty once executed becomes a part of the organic law of
the land, and cannot be varied by legislative enactment or
judicial decision. It can never be altered or varied, except by
the assent of the foreign power who was a party to it. It is
binding both on the citizens of the United States and on the
subjects of the foreign power residing here. Any provision of
the constitution or of a statute of an individual State in conflict with the treaty is void, equally as if it were in conflict
with the Constitution of the United States. Such a treaty has
both a retroactive and a future effect. See Hauenstein v. Zynham, s raq.
The office and desk of Spies, who was a German, were
broken open by police officers of the State, headed by the
prosecuting attorney, without warrant, and the letters and
contents of the desk were carried away. One lettpr and a
postal card, each from Johann Most, which were deemed to
implicate Spies, were produced by the prosecuting attorney,
he stating at the time that they were part of the letters so
seized. They were placed before Spies when he was on the
stand, and he was asked whether he had received them from
lost. Objection was made to his being so asked, but the
court compelled him to answer. He identified them: this
was the only evidence of identification. Discussion was had
whether it could be read in evidence. Objection was made
that it was obtained by the State by an unlawful seizure, but
the court ruled that that matter could not be investigated
there. This being so, the only question here is, whether his
rights, privileges and immunities as a foreigner, which are
protected by treaty fully and equally with those of any citizen
and are never to be changed from what they were when they
accrued, by any power save war, can be wholly abrogated, set
aside and trampled upon by a state court, and there can be
no redress in the Supreme Court of the United States because
no means have been provided to bring before it the matter
by which the life of the party thus to be murdered can be
I
saved
If it be said that the injured party did not make sufficiently
formal objection to what was done; that he waived the protec-

SPIES v. ILLINOIS.
Mr. Butler's Argument for Petitioners Spies and Fielden.

tion which the treaties throw about him, the answer is that, in
a capital trial the prisoner cannot waive, willingly or unwillingly, anything which may affect the issues in that trial.
rommonwealth v. Webster, 5 Cush. 386, 404 [S. C. 52 Am. Dec.

711]; Cormonwealth v. 3fahar, 16 Pick. 120; Commonwealth
v. Andrews, 3 Mass. 126, 133.
But the defendants are .not remitted solely to this claim of
right to be heard. We deny that § 709 of the Revised
Statutes is to be read as if it required that the defendant
should say that he claimed his immunity under the Constitution. The claim must be an immunity or privilege arising
under the Constitution; but it is not necessary that the party
should say, in addition, that he claims the privilege under the
Constitution of the United States. It cannot be that when
a party is setting up in his own behalf a constitutional safeguard against the taking of his letters from him by an unlawful search and seizure, and offering them in evidence against
him that the trial court, by interposing and saying "that subject cannot be investigated here," can prevent him from a full
statement of the violation of his treaty rights, and prevent
him from getting a hearing on the question here. Nor has it
(done so. For the record shows that in the Supreme Court of
Illinois his contention in this respect was considered. The
opinion of that court recites that the main contention there
was that, after Spies' arrest certain effects of his, including
this letter, were seized by the police without war-'ant or other
legal process, and that such seizure was in violation of the
constitutions, both of the United States and Illinois. That
such a specification of claim to constitutional protection is
sufficient is abundantly shown by the cases cited by my
colleagues.
The indictment consists of sixty-nine counts, and sets forth
the alleged crime, not in the manner secured to Englishmen in
the time of the Revolution, but according to a statute of Illinois enacted fifty years after the Revolution. In the case of
Spies and Fielden, after the treaties of peace and amity with
countries which assured them protection against any change
in due process of law by all future state laws, the question
voL. cxxM-11

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Mr. Butler's Atgument for Petitioners Spies and Fielden.

now arises : Can these prisoners be tried for an. alleged crime
in a different manner, and with different forms of procedure,
by a State, from that which existed, when these rights accrued ?
See United States v. Forty-TDree Gallons of F1/hskey, 93 U. S.
188; especially the following passage on page 198: "If a
treaty to which the United States is a party removed such
disability, and secured to them the right so to-take and hold
such property as if they were natives of this country, it might
contravene the statutes of a State; but, in that event, the
courts would disregard them and give to the alien the full
protection conferred by its provisions."
If this conduct of the state courts will not entitle these
prisoners to a writ, then it would seem to be useless to undertake to present a stronger claim, arising out of this or any
other record. I desire to bring to the attention of the court
some of the hardships which the reference of this question by
the learned associate justice to the whole court imposes upon
these defendants....

The grievance which I most respectfully

but earnestly set forth in behalf of my clients is that, by the
course that the cause has been made to take, we go to hearing
on an imperfect record, as certified by the clerk of the state
court, but which has not been and cannot be made a part of
the record of this court, until a writ of error shall issue to
bring it up.
And that thereupon, a proceeding for a certiorari taken, so as to have the record amended, certified, and
sent up to this court for its action.
Nor is the matter wrongfully set up in the record slight or
immaterial. The record shows that a new trial had been
asked for in the Supreme Court of the State. It then proceeds to say that all the parties, to wit, the prisoners and the
State, appeared in the Supreme Court, and that an order was
made that the motion be overruled, and that thereupon the
Supreme Court then proceeded to make sentence that seven
of these prisoners be hanged until they were dead.
The record does not show that the prisoners were asked
whether they had anything to say further before sentence
should be passed upon them, and that part of the record is
true, because the prisoners were not present, nor was either of

SPIES v. ILLINOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

them, but they were confined in the jail on all of that day.
Their counsel, or either of them, were not present when this
sentence was pronounced; and the first knowledge, and the
most like official knowledge which the prisoners had of their
being sentenced to death in the near future, was reading it in
the public prints.
In Archibold's Criminal Practice, Waterman's Notes, Vol.
I, pp. 182-3, it is said (omitting the citations): It has from
the earliest periods been a rule that, though a man be in the
full possession of his senses when he commits a capital offence,
if he becomes non cormpos after it he shall not be indicted; if
after conviction, he shall not receive judgment; if after judgment, he shall not be ordered for execution. The true reason
for this lenity is, not that a man who has beconie insane is
not a fit object of example, though this might be urged in his
favor; but that he is incapable of saying anything in bar of
execution, or assigning any er-ror in the judgment. Error may
well be assigned on the omission of the allocutus or demand
of the defendant what he has to say why judgment should
not proceed against him. . . . Error may be assigned if
sentence of death be passed against a prisoner not present in
court.
If it be due process of law in this country that men, not
being outlaws, can be sentenced to death in their absence from
the court, being shut up in prison, which has never been done
in a court in a civilized country before, and there is no "method
of correcting that misconduct which can be afforded by the
highest court in the land,.it will become a question seriously
to be considered, which is to be preferred, such process of law
or anarchy?
Mm.
court.

CmEF

JusTIcE. WA=E delivered the opinion of the

When, as in this case, application is mad'e to us on the
suggestion of one of our number, to whom a similar application had been previously addressed, for the allowance of
a writ of error to the highest court of a State under § 709
of the Revised Statutes, it is our duty to ascertain not only

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

whether any question reviewable here was made and decided
in the proper court below, but whether it is of a character
to justify us in bringing the judgment here for reexamination. In our opinion the writ ought not to be allowed by
the court, if it appears from the face of the record that the
decision of the Federal question which is complained of was
so plainly right as not to require argument, and especially if
it is in accordance with our well considered judgments in
similar cases. That-is in effect what was done in Twitchell
v. The Commonwealth, 7 Wall. 321, where the writ was
refused, because the questions presented by the record were
"no longer subjects of discussion, here," although if they had
been in the opinion of the court "open," it would have been
allowed. When, under § 5 of our Rule 6, a motion to affirm
is united with a motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction,
the practice has been to grant the motion to affirm when
"the question on which our jurisdiction depends was so manifestly decided right, that the case ought not to be held for
further argument." A'rrowsmith v. Harm ning, 118 U. S.
194, 195; Church v. elsey, 121 U. S. 282. The propriety
of adopting a similar rule upon motions in open court for
the allowance of a writ of error is apparent, for certainly
we would not be justified as a court in sending out a writ to
bring up for review a judgment of the highest court of a
State, when it is apparent on: the face of the record that our
duty would be to grant a motion to affirm as soon as it was
made in proper form.
In the present case we have had the benefit of argument
in support of the application, and while counsel have not
deemed it their duty to go fully into the merits of the
Federal questions they suggest, they have shown us distinctly
what the decisions were of which they complain, and how
the questions arose. In this way we are able to determine
as a court in session whether the errors alleged are such as
to justify us in bringing the case here for review.
We proceed, then, to consider what the questions are on
which, if it exists at all, our jurisdiction depends. They are
thus stated in the opening brief of counsel for petitioners:

SPIES v. ILLINOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

"First. Petitioners challenged the validity of the statute
of Illinois, under and pursuant to which the trial jury was
selected and empauelled, on the ground of repugnancy to the
Constitution of the United States, and the state court sustained the validity of the statute.
"Second. Petitioners asserted and claimed, under the
Constitution of the United States, the right, privilege, and
immunity of trial by an impartial jury, and the decision of
the state court was against the right, privilege, and immunity
so asserted and claimed.
"Third. The State -of Illinois made, and the state court
enforced against petitioners, a law (the aforesaid statute)
whereby the privileges and immunities of petitioners, as
citizens of the United States, were abridged, contrary to
the Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution.
"Fourth. Upon their trial for a capital offence, petitioners
were compelled by the state court to be witnesses against
themselves, contrary to the provisions of the Constitution
of the United States which declare that 'no person shall be
compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself,' and that ' no person shall be deprived of life or liberty
without due process of law.'
"Fifth. That by the action of the state court in said trial
petitioners were denied 'the equal protection of the laws,'
contrary to the guaranty of the said Fourteenth Amendment
of the Federal Constitution."
The particular provisions of the Constitution of the United
States on which counsel rely are found in Articles IV, V, VI,
and XIV of the Amendments, as follows:
"Art. IV. The right of the people to be secure in their
persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable
searches and seizures, shall not be violated."
"Art. V. INo person . . . shall be compelled, in any
criminal case, to be a witness against himself; nor be deprived
of life, liberty or property, without due process of law."
".Art. VI. In all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall
enjoy the right to a speedy and public trial by an impartial
jury of the State and district wherein the crime shall have

.166

OCTOBER- TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

been committed, which district shall have been previously
ascertained by law."
"Art. XIV, § 1. No State shall make of enforce any law
which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of
the United States; nor shall any State deprive any person of
life, liberty or property, without due process of law."
That the first ten Articles of Amendment were not intended
to limit the powers of the state governments in respect to
their own people, but to operate on the National Government
alone, 'was decided more than a half century ago, and that
decision has been steadily adhered to since. Barron v. Baltimore, 7 Pet. 243, 247; Livingston v. -Moore,7 Pet. 469, 552 ;
Fox v. Ohio, 5 How. 410, 434; Smith v. .faryland,18 How.
71, 76; Withers v. Buckley, 20 How. 84, 91 ; Pervearv. The
Commonwealth, 5 Wall. 475, 479; Twitchell v. The Commonwealth, 7 Wall. 321, 325; "The Justices v. .7ifurray, 9 Wall.
274, 278; Edwards 'v. -lliott, 21 Wall. 532, 557; WValker v.
Sauvinet, 92 U. S. 90; United States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S.
542, 552; Pearson v. Yewdall, 95 U. S. 294, 296; Davidson
v. .Vew Orleans, 96 U. S. 97, 101; Xelly v. Pittsburg,104
U. S. 78; Presserv. Illinois, 116 U. S. 252, 265.
It was contended, however, in argument, that, "though
originally the first ten Amendments were adopted as limitations on Federal power, yet in so far as they secure and
recognize fundamental rights-common law rights-of the

man, they make them privileges and immunities of the man
as a citizen of the United States, and cannot now be abridged
by a State under the Fourteenth Amendment. In other
words, while the ten Amendments as limitations on power only,
apply to the Federal Government, and not to the States, yet
in so far as they declare or recognize rights of persons, these
rights are theirs, as citizens of the United States, and the
Fourteenth Amendment as to such rights limits state power,
as the ten Amendments had limited Federal power."
It is also contended that the provision of the Fourteenth
Amendment, which declares that no State shall deprive "any
person of life, liberty or property, without dueprocess of law,"
implies that every person charged with crime in a State shall

SPIES v. ILLINOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

be entitled to a trial by an impartial jury, and shall not be
compelled to testify against himself.
The objections are in brief, 1, that a statute of the State as
construed by the court deprived the petitioners of a trial by
an impartial jury; and, 2, that Spies was compelled to gi-ve
evidence against himself. Before considering whether the
Constitution of the United States has the effect which is
claimed, it is proper to inquire whether the Federal questions
relied on in fact do arise on the face of this record.
The statute to which objection is made was approved March
12, 1874, and has been in force since July 1 of that year.
Hurd's :Rev. Stat. Ill. 1885, p. 752, c. 78, § 14. It is as follows:
"It shall be sufficient cause of challenge of a petit juror that
he lacks any one of the qualifications mentioned in section two
of this act; or if he is not one of the regular panel, that he
has served as a juror on the trial of a cause in any court of
record in the county within one year previous to the time of
his being offered as a juror; or, that he is a party to a suit
pending for trial in that court at that term. It shall be the
duty of the court to discharge from the panel all jurors who
do not possess the qualifications provided in this act, as soon
as the fact is discovered: Pi'ovided, if a person has served on
a jury in a court of record within one year, he shall be exempt
from again serving during such year, unless he waives such
exemption: Providedfuther,that it shall not be a cause of
challenge that a juror has read in the newspapers an account
of the commission of the crime with which the prisoner is
charged, if such juror shall state on oath that he believes he
can render an impartial verdict according to the law and the
evidence: And provided.further, that in the trial of any
criminal cause, the fact that a person called as a juror has
formed an opinion or impression, based upon rumor or upon
newspaper statements (about the truth of which he has expressed no opinion), shall not disqualify him to serve as a juror
in such case, if he shall upon oath state that he- believes he
can fairly and impartially render a verdict therein in accordance with the law and the evidence, and the court shall be
satisfied of the truth of such statement."

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

The complaint is that the trial court, acting under this statute and in accordance with its requirements, compelled the
petitioners against their will to submit to a trial by a jury that
was not impartial, and thus deprived them of one of the fundamental rights which they had as citizens of the United States
under the National Constitution, and if the sentence of the
court is carried into execution they will be deprived of' their
lives without due process of law.
I In ifopt v. tah, 120 U. S. 430, it was decided by this court
that when "a challenge by a defendant in a criminal action to
a juror, for bias, actual or implied, is disallowed, and the juror
is thereupon peremptorily challenged by the defendant and excused, and an impartial and competent juror is obtained in his
place, no injury is done the defefidant, if until the jury is com.pleted he has other peremptory challenges which he can use."
And so in lHayes v. .1issouri, 120 U. S. 68, '1,it was said:
-The right to challenge is the right to reject, not to select a
juror. If from those who remain an impartial jury is obtained,
the constitutional right of the accused is maintained." Of the
correctness of these rulings we entertain no doubt.
We are, therefore, confined in this case to the rulings on the
challenges to the jurors who actually sat at the trial. Of these
there were but two -Theodore
Denker, the third juror who
was sworn, and IH. T. Sanford, the last, who was called and
sworn after all the peremptory challenges of the defendants
had been exhausted.
At the trial the court construed the statute to mean, that,
"although a person called as a juryman may have formed an
opinion based upon rumor or upon newspaper statements, but
has expressed no opinion as to the truth of the newspaper
statement, he is still qualified as a juror if he states that he can
fairly and impartially render a verdict thereon in accordance
with the law and the evidence, and the court shall be satisfied
of the truth of such statement. It is not a test question
whether the juror will have the opinion which he has formed
from newspapers changed by the evidence, but whether his
verdict will be based only upon the account which may here
be given by witnesses under oath."

SPIES v. ILLINOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

Interpreted in this way, the statute is not materially different from that of the Territory of Utah, which we had under
consideration in Hropt v. Utah, ubi supra, and to which we
then gave effect. As that was a territorial statute, passed by
a territorial legislature for the government of a territory over
which the United States had exclusive jurisdiction, it came
directly within the operation of Article VI of the Amendments, which guaranteed to Hopt a trial by an impartial jury.
Webster .v. Reid, 11 How. 437, 459. No one at that time suggested a doubt of the constitutionality of the statute, and it
was regarded, both in the territorial courts and here, as furnishing the proper rule to be observed by a territorial court in
empanelling an impartial jury in a criminal case.
A similar statute was enacted in New York, May 3, 1872,
Session Laws of 1872, c. 475, 9 N. .Y. Stat. at Large, Edmonds,
24 ed. 373; in :Michigan, April 18, 1873, Acts of 1873, 162,
Act 117, Howell's Stat., § 9564; in Nebraska, Comp. Stat.
Neb. 1885, p. 838, Criminal Code, § 468; and in Ohio, Rev.
Stat. Ohio, 1880, § 7278. The constitutionality of the statute
of New York was sustained by the Court of Appeals of that
State in Stokes v. The People, 53 N. Y. 164, 172, decided June
10, 1873, and that of Ohio, in Cooper v. Dihe State of Ohio, 16
Ohio St. 328. So far as we have been able to discover, no
doubt has ever been entertained in M ichigan or Nebraska of
the constitutionality of the statutes of those States respectively,
but they have always been treated by their Supreme Courts as
valid, both under the Constitution of the United States, aud
under that of the State. Sttephens v. Th People, 38 IMich.
739, 741; Uirich v. 7he People, 39 Mich. 245; .Afurphy v.
The State, 15 Neb. 383.
Indeed, the rule of the statute of Illinois, as it was construed
by the trial court, is not materially different from that which
has been adopted by the courts in many of the States without
legislative action. Commonwealth v. Webster, 5 Cush. 295;
Bolt v. The People, 13 Mich. 224; State v. Fox, 1 Dutcher
(25 N. J. L.), 566; Oslander v. The Commonwealth, 3 Leigh,
780; State v. Ellington, 7 Iredell, 61; Smith v. Eames, 3 Scammon, 76, 81. See also an elaborate note to this last case in

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

36 Am. Dec. 521, where a very large number of authorities
on the subject is cited.
Without pursuing this subject further, it is sufficient to say
that we agree entirely with the Supreme Court of Illinois in
its opinion in this case that the statute on its face, as construed
by the trial 'court, is not repugnant to § 9 of Art. 2 of the
constitution of that State, which guarantees to the accused
party in' every criminal prosecution "a speedy trial by an
impartial jury of the county or district in which the offence is
alleged to have been committed." As this is substantially the
provision of the Constitution of the United States on which
the petitioners now rely, it follows that, even if their position
as to the operation and effect of that Constitution is correct,
the statute is not open to the objection which is made against
it.
We proceed, then, to a consideration of the gTounds of challenge to the jurors Denker and Sanford, to see if in the actual
administration of the rule of the statute by the court, the
rights of the defendants under the Constitution of the United.
States were in any way impaired or violated.
Denker was examined by the counsel for the defendants
when he was called as a juror, and, after stating his name and
place of residence, proceeded as follows:
"Q. You heard of this Haymarket meeting, I suppose?
A. Yes.
"Q. Have you formed an opinion upon the question of the
defendants' guilt or innocence upon the charge of murder, or
any of them? A. I have.
"Q. Have you expressed that opinion? A. Yes.
"Q. You still entertain it? A. Yes.
"Q. You believe what you read and what you heard? A.
I believe it; yes.
"Q. Is that opinion such as to prevent you from rendering
an impartial verdict in the case sitting as a juror under the
testimony and the law? A. I think it is."
At this stage of the examination he was "challenged for
cause" for the defendants, but before any decision was made
thereon.the following occurred:

SPIES v. ILLINOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

"Mr. GRnxTELL (for the State): If you were taken and
sworn as a juror in the case, can't you determine the innocence or the guilt of the defendants upon the proof that is
presented to you here in court, regardless of your having any
prejudice or opinion? A. I think I could.
"Q. You could determine their guilt or innocence upon the
proof presented to you here in court, regardless of your prejadice and regardless of your opinion, and regardless of what
you have read? A. Yes.
"The CouRT: Do [Can] you fairly and impartially try the
case and render an impartial verdict upon the evidence as it
may be presented here and the instructions of the court? A.
Yes; I think I could."
The court- thereupon overruled the challenge, but before
the juror was accepted and sworn he was further examined
by counsel for the defendants, as follows:
"Mr. FOsTER : I was going to ask you something about the
opinion that you have formed from reading the papers and
from conversation. I believe you answered me bef' re that
you had formed an opinion from reading and hearing couversation. That is correct, is it? A. Yes ; but I don't believe
everything I read in the newspapers.
"Q. No; but you believe enough to form an opinion? A.
Yes; I formed an opinion.
"Q. Was that opinion principally from what you read in
the papers or was it from what you heard on the street?
A. From what I read entirely.
"Q. Then you did believe enough of what you read to
form an opinion upon the question of the guilt or innocence of
these men, or some of them? A. Yes.
"Q. And I believe you said you also expressed your opinion which you have formed to others with whom you conversed? A. Yes ; I have expressed that opinion.
"Q. During the expression of-this opinion I will ask you
whether you stated in substance to these persons or any of
them that you believed enough of what you had read to form
the opinion which you had?
"The COURT: Did you in any conversation that you had

-172,

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

say anything as to whether you believed or not the account
which was in the newspapers which you read? A. No, sir;
I never expressed an opinion in regard to whether the newspapers were correct or not.
"Q. You never discussed that matter at all? A. No, sir."
Then, after some inquiries as to his business, age, and residence, the examination by the counsel for the defendant pro,
ceeded:
"Q. Are you acquainted with any members of the police
force of the city of Chicago that were present at the Haymarket meeting on the occasion referred to? A. No, sir.
"Q. Have you ever had any conversation with any one that
undertook to detail the facts as they occurred at the Haymarket Square, or who claimed they had been there? A. No,
sir.
"Q. Is your opinion entirely made up of what you have
read distinguished from what you have heard? A. Entirely
fromwhat I have read in the newspapers.
"Q. Have you had much conversation with others in regard
to it at or about your place of business or elsewvhere? A.
-We have conversed about it a number of times there in the
house.
"Q. There is where you have expressed, I presume, the
opinion which you have formed? A. Yes, sir.

"Q. Do you know anything about socialism, anarchism, or
communism? A. No, sir; I do not.
"Q. Have you any prejudice against this class of persons?
A. I think I am a little prejudiced against socialism. I don't
know that I am against anarchism. In fact, I don't really
understand what they are. I do not know what their principles are at all.
"Q. I understand you to say that notwithstanding the
opinion you formed at the time you read the newspaper that
you now are conscious of the fact that you can try this case
and settle it upon the testimony introduced here? A. Yes; I
think I could.
"Q. And not be controlled or governed by any impression
that you. might have had heretofore? A. Yes, sir.

SPIES v. ILLINOIS..
Opinion of the Court.

"Q. And the law, as given you by the court, governing it?
A. Yes, sir.
((Q. In the conversations that you have had there at the
store, you say you have expressed the opinion which you have
formed before? A. Yes, sir.
"Q. Is that of frequent occurrence- that you have expressed the opinion you have formed? A. Well,. I think I
have expressed it pretty freely.
"Q. As to the number of times -as to whether it was
frequent or not? A. 0, no; we did not bring the matter up
in conversation -very often, but when we did we generally
expressed our opinion in regard to 'the matter.
"Q. Your mind was made up from what you read, and you
had no hesitancy in saying it - speaking it out. A. I don't
think I hesitated.
"Q. Would you feel yours'elf any way governed or bound
in listening to the testimony and determining it upon the
prejudgment of tho case you had expressed to others before?
A. Well, ihat is a pretty bard question to answer.
" Q. I will ask you whether acting as a juror here you
would feel in any way bound or governed by the judgment
that you had expressed on the sime question to others before
you were taken as a juryman; do you understand that? A.
I don't think I would.
"Q. -That is, you have, now made up your mind, or at least
you have formed an opinion; you have expressed that freely
to others. Now, the question is whether when yo-f listen
to the testimony you will have in your mind the expression
which you have given to -others and have to guard against
that and be controlled by it in any-way. A. No, sir; I
don't think I would. I 'think I could try the case from the
*testimony regardless of this.
"-Q. J understand you to say that you believe that you can
entirely lay to one side the opinion which you have formed ;
it would require no circumstances or evidence to overcome it
if you were accepted as a juryman? A. I think I could lay
aside that opinion I have formed.

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

"Q. You believe that you could? A. Yes."
Here the examination of the juror by the counsel for the
defendant, so far as it seems to be important to the present
inquiry, was closed. ,Then on examination by the attorney
for the State the following appears:
"Q. Do you know anything of the counsel upon the other
side? A. No, sir.
"Q. You have men under you assisting you in shipping?
A. No; there are no men under me.
"Q. Do you belong to any labor organization? A. No, sir.
"Q. You stated, I believe, that you didn't know much
about anarchism or communism, and therefore you couldn't
tell whether you had a prejudice or not. A. No, sir; I do
not.
"Q. But you have read something about socialism? A.
Yes, sir.
"Q. Do you believe in the .maintenance of the laws of the
State of Illinois and the Government of the United States?
A. Yes, sir ; I do.
" Q. Have you any- sympathy with any individual or class
of individuals who have for their purpose or object the overthrow of the law by force. A. No,sir.
"Q. Have you any conscientious scruples against the infliction of the death penalty in proper cases? A. No, sir.
"Q. If taken as a juror in this case do .you believe you
could determine the innocence or guilt of the defendants upon
the proof presented to you here in court, under the instructions of the court, regardless of everything else? A. Yes; I
think I could.
"Q. You know now of no prejudice or bias that would
interfere with your duties as a juror? - A. No, sir.
"Q. Are you a socialist, a communist, or an anarchist? A.
No, sir.
"Q. You have no associations or affiliations with that class
of people, so far as you know? A. No, sir."
At the close of. this examination neither party challenged
the juror perempt6rily, and he was accepted and sworn. It
is not denied that When this occurred the defendants Tere

SPIES v. ILLINOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

still entitled to 14 peremptory challenges, or about that
number.
When the ,juror Sanford was called he was first examined
by counsel for defendants, and after some preliminary questions and answers, the examination, still by counsel for the
defendants, proceeded as follows:
"Q. You know what case is on trial now, I presume? A.
Yes.
"Q. Have you any opinion as to the guilt or the innocence
of the defendants, or any of them, of the murder of Matthias
J. Degan? A. I have.
"Q. You have an opinion; you say you have formed an
opinion somewhat upon the question of the guilt or innocence
of these defendants, do you mean, or that there was an offence
committed it the Haymarket by th6 throwing of the bomb?
A. Well, I would rather.have .you ask them one at a time.
"Q. All right. Have you an opinion as to whether or not
there was an offence committed at the Haymarket meeting by
the throwing of the bomb? A. Yes.
"Q. Now, from all that you have read and all that you
have heard, have you an opinion as to the guilt or innocence
of any of the eight de2endlants of the throwing of that
bomb? A. Yes.
"Q. You have an opinion upon that question also? A. I
have.
"Q. Did you ever sit on a jury? A. Never.
"Q. I suppose you know something about the duties of a
juror? A. I presume so.
"Q. You understand, of.course, that when a man is on trial,
whether it be for his life or for any' penal offence, that he can
only be convicted upon testimony which is introduced in the
presence and the hearing of the jury? You know that, don't
you? A. Yes.
"Q. You know that any newspaper gossip or any street gossip has nothing to do with the matter whatever, and that the
jury are to consider only the testimony which is admitted by
the court actually, and then are to consider that testimony
under the direction, as contained in the charge, of the court;
you .understand that? A. Yes.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

"Q. Now, if you should be selected as a juror in this case to
try and determine it, do you believe that you could exercise
legally the duties of a juror -that you could listen to the testimony, and all of the testimony, and the charge of the court,
and after deliberation return a verdict which would be right
and fair as between the defendants and the people of the State
of Illinois? A. Yes, sir.
"Q. You believe that'you could do that? A. Yes, sir.
"Q. You could fairly and impartially listen to the testimony
that is introduced here? A. Yes.
"Q. And the charge of the court, and render an impartial
verdict, you believe? A. Yes.
"Q. Have you any knowledge of the. principles contended
for by socialists, communists, and anarchists? A. Nothing, except what I read in the papers.
"Q. Just general reading? A. Yes.
"Q. You are not a socialist, I presume, or a communist? A.
No, sir.
"Q. Have you a prejudice against them from what you have
read in the papers? A. Decided.
"Q. A.decided prejudice against them? Do you believe
that fhat would influence your verdict in this case, or would
you try the real issue which is here, as to whether these defendants were guilty of the murder of Mr. Degan or not, or would
you try the question of socialism or anarchism, which really
has nothing to do with the case? A. Well, as I know so little
about it in reality at present, it is a pretty hard question to
answer.
"Q. You would undertake- you would attempt, of course,
to try the case upon the evidence introduced here -upon the
issue which is presented here? A. Yes, sir.
' Now, the issue, and the only issue which will be pre"Q.
sented to this jury, unless it is presented with some other motive than to arrive at the truth, I think is, did-these men throw
the bomb which killed officer Degan? If not, did they aid,
abet, encourage, assist, or advise somebody else to do it? Now,
that is all there is in this case; no question of socialism or anarchism to be determined, or as to whether it is right or wrong.

SPIES v. ILLINOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

Now, do you believe that you can try it upon that theory and
return a verdict upon that theory and upon that issue? A.
Well, suppose I have an opinion in my own mind that they
encouraged it?
"Q. Keep it-that they encouraged it? A. Yes.
"Q. Well then, so far as that is concerned I do not care very
much what your opinion may be now, for your- opinion now
is made up of random conversations and from newspaper reading, as I understand? A. Yes.
"1
Q. That is notfaing reliable. You do not regard that as being in the nature of sworn testimony at all, do you? A. No.
"Q. Now, when the testimony is introduced here and the
witnesses are examined and cross-examined, you see them and
look into their countenances, judge who are worthy of belief
and who are not worthy of belief. Don't you think then you
would be able to determine the question? A. Yes.
"Q. Regardless of any impression that you might have, or
any opkiion? A. Yes.
"Q. Have you any opposition to the organization by laboring men of associations, or societies, or unions so far as they
have reference to their own advancement and protection, and
are not in violation of law? A. .No, sir.
"Q. Mr. Sanford, do you know any of the members of the
police force of the city of Chicago? A. Not one by name.
"Q. You are not acquainted with any one that was either
injured or killed, I suppose, at the Haymarket meeting? A.
No.

"Q. Mr. Sanford, are you acquainted with any gentlemen
three gentlemen, Mr.
representing the prosecution -these
Grinnell, Mr. Ingham, Mr. Walker, and Mr. Furthman, who
[is] not here at the present time? A. No, sir.
"Q. You are, I presume, not acquainted with any of the
detective officers of the city of Chicago? A. Not to my
knowledge.
"Q. Now, Mr. Sanford, if you should be selected -as a juror,
in this case do you believe that, regardless of all prejudice or
opinion which you now have, you could listen to the legitimate
VOL. cxxm-12

OCTOBER TERMI,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

testimony introduded in court and upon that and that alone
render and return a fair and impartial, unprejudiced and unbiased verdict? A. Yes."
At the close of this examination on the part of the defendants, the juror was challenged in their behalf for cause, and
the attorney for the State, after it was ascertained that 0 the
peremptory challenges of the defendants had been exhausted,
took up the examination of the juror; and as to this the record
shows the following:
"Mr. INuxn: Mr. Sanford, upon what is your opinion
founded- upon newspaper reports? A. Well, it is founded
on the general theory and what I read in the newspaper.
"Q. And what you read in the papers? A. Yes, sir.
"Q. Have you ever talked with any one who was present, at
the Haymarket at the time the bomb was thrown? A. No,
sir.
"Q. Have you ever talked with any one who professed, of
his own knowledge, to know anythirg about the connection of
the defendants with the throwing of that bomb? A. No.
"Q. -Have you ever said to any one whether or not7 you believed the statements of facts in the newspapers to be true
A. I have never expressed it exactly in that way, but still I
have no reason to think they were false.
"Q. Well, the question is not what your opinion of'that
was. The question simply is -it is a question made necessary
by our statute, perhapsA. Well, I don't recall whether
I have or not.
"Q. So far as you know, then, you never have? A. No,
sir.
"Q. Do you believe that if taken as a juror you can try
this case fairly and impartially, and render a verdict upon the
law and the evidence? A. Yes."
At this stage of the examination the court remarked in reply
to some suggestion of counsel as follows:
"The CounT. The defendants having challenged for cause,
which is overruled, can, of course, stand where they are without saying anything more; but the effect of that, in my judgment, is that they accept the juror because they can't help

SPIES v. ILLINOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

themselves. They have got no peremptory -challenge; the
challenge for cause is overruled, and, necessarily, the question
now is for the State to say whether they will accept this juror
or not. The common law is that all jurors not challenged, or
to whom the challenge is not sustained, are the jurors to try
the case. If they are not challenged for a cause which is sustained, and if they are not challenged peremptorily, then they
are necessarily the jury to trythe case. Now, in this instance,
the defendants have no more peremptory challenges, and the
challenge which they have made for cause is overruled; therefore, so far as the defendants are concerned, he is a juror to
try the case."
This was accepted by both parties as a true statement of
the then condition of the case, and after some further examination of the juror, which elicited nothing of importance in
connection with the present inquiry, no peremptory challenge
having been interposed by the State, Sanford was sworn as a
juror, and the panel was then complete.
This, so far as we have been advised, presents all there is
in the record which this court can consider touching the challenges bf these two jurors by the defendants for cause.
In Reynolds v. Tlie U ited iSates, 98 U. S. 145, 156, we
said "that upon the trial of the issue of fact raised by" a
challenge to a juror, in a criminal case, on the ground that he
had formed and expressed an opinion as to the issues to be
tried, "the court will practically be called upon to determine
whether the nature and strength of the opinion formed are
such as in law necessarily to raise the presumption of partiality. The question thus presented is one of mixed law and
fact, and to be tried, as far as the facts are concerned, like
any other issue of that character, upon the evidence.

The

finding of the trial court upon that issue ought not to be set
aside by a reviewing court, unless the error is manifest.
It must be made clearly to appear that upon the evidence the
court ought to have found the juror had formed such an opinion that he could not in law be deemed impartial. The case
must be one in which it is manifest the law left nothing to the
'conscience or discretion I of. the court." If such is the degree

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

of strictness which is required in the ordinary cases of writs
of error from one court to another in the'same general jurisdiction, it certainly ought not to be relaxed in a case where,
as in this, the ground relied on for the reversal by this court
of a judgment of the highest court of the State is, that the
error complained of is so gross as to amount in law to a denial
by the State of a trial by an impartial jury to one who is
accused of crime. We are unhesitatingly of opinion that no
such case is disclosed by this record.
We come now to consider the objection that the defendant
Spies was compelled by the court to be a witness against
himself. He voluntarily offered himself as a witness in his
own. behalf, and by so doing he became bound to submit to
a proper cross-examination, under the law and practice in the
jurisdiction where he was being tried. The complaint is, that
he was required on cross-examination .to state whether he had
received a certain letter, which was shown, purporting to
have been written by Johann Most, and addressed to him, and
upon his saying that he had, the court allowed the letter to
be read in evidence against him. This, it is claimed, was not
proper cross-examination. It isnot contended that the. subject to which the cross-examination related was not pertinent
to the issue to be tried; and whether a cross-examination
must be confined to matters pertinent to the testimony-inchief, or may be extended to the matters in issue, is certainly
a question of state law as administered in the courts of the
State, and not of Federal law.
Something was said in argument about an alleged unreasonable search and seizure of the papers and property of some of
the defendants, and their use in evidence on the trial of the
case. Special reference is made in this connection to the
letter of Most about which Spies was cross-examined; but we
have not been referred to any part of the record in which it
appears that objection was made to the use of this evidence
on that account. And upon this point the Supreme Court of
the State, in that part of its opinion which has been printed
with the motion papers, remarks as follows:
"The objection that the letter was obtained from the de-

SPIES v. ILLINOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

fendant by an unlawful seizure is made for the first time in
this court. It was not made on the trial in the court below.
Such an objection as this, which is not suggested by the
nature of the offered evidence, but depends upon the proof of
an outside fact, should have been made 'on the trial. The
defence should have proved that the Most letterewas one of
the letters illegally seized by the police and should then have
moved to exclude or oppose its admission on the ground that
it was obtained by such illegal seizure. This was not done,
and therefore we cannot consider the constitutional question
supposed to be involved."
Even if the court was wrong in saying that it did not
appear that the Most letter was one of the papers illegally
seized, it still remains uncontradicted that objection was not
made in the trial court to its admission oil that account. To
give us jurisdiction under § 709 of the Revised Statutes because of the denial by a state. court of any title, right, privilege or immunity claimed under the Constitution, or any
treaty or statute of the United States, it must'appear on
the record that such title, right, privilege or immunity was
"specially set up or claimed" at the proper time in the
proper way. To be reviewable here the decision must be
against the right so set up r cZainwd. As the Supreme Court
of the State was reviewing the decision of the trial court,
it must appear that the claim was made in that court, because
the Supreme Court was only authorized to 'review the judgment for errors committed there, and we can do no more.
This is not, as seems to be supposed by one of the counsel for
the petitioners, a question of a waiver of a right; under the
Constitution, laws or treaties of the United States, but a question of claim. If the right was not set up or claimed in the
proper court below, the judgment of the highest court of the
State in the action is conclusive, so far as the right of review
here is concerned. The question whether the letter, if obtained
in the manner alleged, would have been competent evidence
is not before us, and, therefore, no foundation is laid under
this objection for the exercise of our jurisdiction.
As to the suggestion by counsel for the petitioners Spies and

OCTOBER TEI9M,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

Fielden-Spies having been born in Germany and Fielden in
Great Britain-that they have been denied by the decision of
the court below rights guaranteed to them by treaties between
the United States and their respective countries, it is sufficient
to say that no such questions were made and decided in either
of the courts below, and they cannot be raised in this court
for the first time. Besides, we have not been referred to any
treaty, neither are we aware of any, under which such a question could be raised.
The objection that the defendants were not actually present
in the Supreme Court of the State at the time sentence was
pronounced cannot be made on the record as it now stands,
because on its face it shows that they were present. If this is
not in accordance with the fact, the record must be corrected
below, not here. It will be time enough to consider whether
the objection presents a Federal question when the correction
has been made.
Being of opinion, therefore, that the Federal questions presented by the counsel for the petitioners, and which they say
they desire to argue, are not involved in the determination of
the case as it appears on the face of the record, we deny the
writ.
Petition,for writ of error is dismissed.

MATHEWS v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL .FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Submitted October 17. 1887.-Decided Oetober l1,1887.

A diplomatic and consular appropriation act which transfers a consulate
from the class in which it had previously stood to a lower class, with a
smaller salary, operates to reip2P1 so much of previous legislation it*,
placed the consulate in the grade from which it was removed.
United States v. Langston, 118 U. S. 389, distinguished.

THIS was an appeal from a judgment of the Court of Claims.
The case as stated by the court was as follows.

