PARKER AN)

WHIPPLE CO. v. YAiE CLOCK CO. -7
Counsel for Parties.

PARKER AND WHIPPLE COMPANY v. YALE
CLOCK COMPANY.
.APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF CONNECTICUT.
Argued October 20, 18ST. -Decided October 31, 1887.

The first eight claims of reissued letters-patent No. 10,062, granted March
14, 1882, to Arthur R. Hotchkiss, for improvements in clock movements, on an application for a reissue filed July 19, 1881, (the original
patent, No. 221,310, having been granted to Hotchkiss November 4,
1879, on an application filed July 29, 1879, and a prior reissue, No. 9656,
having been granted April 12, 1881,) are invalid, because not for the
same invention as that of the original patent.
The statutes, and the decisions of this court, on the question of the necessity that a reissued patent should be granted only for the same invention
as the original patent, reviewed.
What was suggested or indicated in the original specification, drawings or
patent office model is not to be considered as.a part of the invention
intended to have been covered by the original patent, unless it can be
seen, from a comparison of the two patents, that the invention which the
original patent was intended to cover embraced the things thus suggested
or indicated in the original specification, drawings or patent office model,
and unless the original specification indicated that those things were
embraced in the invention intended to have been secured by the original
patent.
In this case, the original patent was amended so as to cover improvements
not covered by it, and which came into use by others than the patentee
free from the protection of the patent; and there is no evidence of any
attempt to secure l y the original patent the inventions covered by the
first eight claims of the reissue; and those inventions must be regarded
as having been abandoned or waived, so far as the reissue is concerned.

IN equity.

To restrain alleged infringement of letters-

patent. Decree dismissing the bill. Complainants appealed.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
r. Charles E

itchell for appellants.

was with him on the brief.
2fr. 0. 1B. Ingersoll for appellee.

.f.

Jozn i. Beach

OCTOBER TERAM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr.. JusTIcE BL.ATdHFoRo

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit -in-equity, brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Connecticut, by the Parker
& Whipple Company, a corporation of Connecticut, and Arthur

E. Hotchkiss, against the Yale Clock Company, a corporation
of Connecticut, and Henry C. Shelton, Frederick A. Lane,
and Paschal Converse, directors of the latter company. The
suit is founded on reissued letters-patent No. 10,062, granted
March 14th, 1882, to Arthur E. Hotchkiss, for improvements in clock movements, on an application for a reissue
filed July 19th, 1881, the original patent, No. 221,310, having
been granted to Hotchkiss, Noveinber 4th, 1879, on an application filed 'July 29th, 1879, and a prior reissue, No. 9656,
having been granted April 12th, 1881.
The Circuit Court dismissed the bill, upon the ground that
the invention described in the first eight claims of the reissue,
which are the claims alleged to have been infringed, was an
invention of which no trace was to be found in the original
specification, and was manifestly other and different from that
which was the subject of the original patent, and that the
statute in regard to reissues forbids such a radical transformation of a patent as was attempted in this case. 21 Blatchford,
485. The plaintiffs have appealed to this court.
The circumstances of this case are so well stated in the
opinion delivered by Judge Shipman, holding the Circuit
Court, that we adopt his language, as follows:
"At the date of the invention, expensive clocks of tiny size
were being made, which met with favor from the public.
They were convenient and attractive, and the main object of
the patentee (the original specification says a leading object.)
was to make a good time-keeping clock of the like small size,
which could be furnished to the public at the small price which
characterizes the manufacture of Connecticut clocks. The
clock was devised for this end, unquestionably with much
study and painstaking, and I shall assume that the invention,
as claimed in the reissue, was both novel and patentable.
Much skill and ingenuity have been displayed in attacking

PARKER AND WHIPPLE CO. v. TALE CLOCK CO. 89
Opinion of the Court.

and defending these contested points, but, as I think that a
vital point of the plaintiffs' case depends upon the validity of
the reissue, I shall confine myself to that question.
"The patentee, in his original specification, stated the nature
of his invention as follows: ' This invention relates to that
class of time-keepers in which a fixed annular rack or internally toothed wheel is employed to aid a spring-barrel
in rotating the train of'-wheels. The nature of said invention
consists, partly, in the combination of a fixed internally toothed
circular rack and a concentric-going barrel or plate with a
mainspring, a transmitting wheel rotating with said barrel,
and a fixed clock movement. It also consists in arranging the
operating parts of the timepiece on a fixed plate, and attaching the same to the back of the clock case by means of
tongues which extend out from said plate through perforations in the back of said case. It also consists in providing
said tongues with broad shoulders, which cause said plate to
stand out from the back of the clock case, so as to leave space
for the mainspring between them. It also consists in the combination of a mainspring having a perforated end with a lateral
finger extending from the broad part of one of said tongues,
whereby said mainspring is firmly held at its fixed end, yet
easily detached. It also consists in the combination with a
fixed plate, which confines the mainspring and supports the
movement, of a rotating plate arranged in front of said fixed
plate, and provided with a hub which extends -through said
fixed plate and is connected to the winding end of the mainspring. It also consists in adapting to and combining with
the hub thus constructed, a key having a screw-threaded winding part for engaging with said hub, and a recessed part for
engaging with the prismatic end of the centre shaft. It also
consists in constructing the annular rack or internally toothed
wheel with an annular recess for receiving the pillar plate,
and thereby economizing space. It also consists- in constructing the pillar plate and pillars in one piece, and attaching said
pillars to the front plate by twisting them. It also consists in
substituting an automatic winding dog, operating like an
escapement verge, for the click and spring ordinarily used.

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

Italso consists in constructing the case with an opening at the
bottom and adapting the key and the adjusting nut of the
pendulum-ball to one another, so that the adjustment of
the said ball may be effected conveniently, from the outside
of the case. It also consists in providing said ball with a
spring which will force it down into place and with a guide
which will prevent it from turning.' The twelve claims of the
original patent were confined to these details thus enumerated
in the specification.
"In March, 1880, the Parker & Whipple Company entered
into a contract with the Yale Clock Company to manufacture
the Hotchkiss clock, at a stipulated price per clock, the
licensees furnishing the dies and tools for such manufacture.
About 50,000 clocks were mad6 by the defendants and delivered to the licensees between June 17th and December 27th,
$80. During this period the defendant Frederick A. Lane,
superintendent of the Yale Clock Company, made the infringing clock. It did not contain a single patented feature of the
tIotchkiss clock, but in respect to every other leading feature
the parts of the two clocks are interchangeable. The Lane
clock was immediately patented, was put upon the market,
and is being manufactured by the Yale clock Company.
"An examination of the Iotchkiss patent showed that the
vital parts of the invention were not alluded to in the specification or in the claims. Perhaps the fact that the clock had
three wheels and their position might have been understood
by an expert, from drawing No. 6. That drawing was not
made for the purpose of showing the wheels, and it ismanifest, from the specification, that the patentee did not suppose
they had anything to do with his invention, which he did
suppose lay in entirely other parts of the clock. The model
showed a completed clock, and contained whatever was and
was not invented by Iotchkiss.
' In the specification of the second reissue, the patentee
omitted the entire description which has been quoted, and
inserted the following: 'MAly invention relates to an improvement in clock movements, the object being to make a clock
movement which shall be simple and durable in its construe-

PARKER AND WHIPPLE CO. v. YALE CLOCK CO. 91
Opinion of the Court.

tion, of small initial cost in manufacture, and the several parts
of which shall be relatively arranged in such manner that the
movement may be inclosed in a small and compact case. To
this end, the invention consists essentially in dividing the train
into two parts; in arranging the divisions of the train in a
frame having three plates; in providing an additional-wheel
and pinion between the escape wheel and centre wheel; in
making the three wheels between the escape wheel and centre
wheel with the same m-imber of teeth and of the same size;
in arranging the pivots of the three arbors, carrying the three
like wheels and pinions, between the escape wheel and centre
wheel, in the circumferences of circles which are concentric
with the centre arbor; and in other minor improvements, as
the invention is hereinafter more fully described and explained
by reference to the drawings.' In accordance with this statement, the plaintiffs' experts claimed, upon the trial, that the
invention consisted generally in the division of the train into
two parts, by means of a frame having three plates, the point
of division being between the centre wheel and the centre
pinion; and, secondly, in the arrangement, between the centre
wheel and the escape wheel, of three wheels, which are driven
by the centre wheel, in the circumference of a circle which is
concentric to the centre arbor, the three wheels being arranged
on a semicircle concentric to the centre pinion. This general
outline of the invention is stated with accuracy and completeness in eight clahns of the reissue, four of which relate to the
division of the train into two parts, in a frame. having three
plates, while the other four relate to the arrangement of the
three wheels. The 10th and 11th" claims relate to details
which were specified in the original patent, but which are not
used by the defendants. The defendants infringe the first
eight claims.
"The position of the plaintiffs is, that the invention of the
reissue was the invention of Hotchkiss, and was shown in the
model accompanying the original application for a patent, and
that, therefore, the description in the reissue is not to be
regarded as new matter, but as a correction of a misstatement
in the description contained in the original specification.

OCTOBER TERMI,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

"The defendants, making no point in regard to laches in
applying for a correction of the original patent, deny the
plaintiffs' premise and conclusion. They deny the premise,
because they say that the original description limited the
invention to that class of time-keepers in which a fixed annular rack or internally toothed wheel is employed to aid a spring
barrel in rotating the train of wheels, and that this construction only was shown in the model, and that the importance of
the Lane invention consisted in the abandonment of the 'planet
wheel' and the substitution therefor of the ordinary mainspring.
t'If the premise was true, they deny the conclusion, because
it is a fact, the truth of which is apparent, that, in the original
specification and drawings, the patentee gave no hint that he
regarded the construction described in any one of the first
eight claims of the reissue as forming any material or immaterial part of his invention."
On these premises, the court said that "the eight claims
which are in controversy are a total abandonment of the principles which are stated in the original patent to be those of
the invention, and are an introduction into the reissue of a
subject-matter which has no relation to the original pdtent,
except that each patent relates to clocks."
The original patent contained twelve claims, in these words:
"1. Incombination with a fixed circular rack and a stationary clock-metiVement, a plate rotated by the mainspring and
carrying a device which connects the rack and movement,
substantially as and for the purpose set forth.
"2. A perforated 'clock-case back, in combination with a
base-plate for the movement, said base-plate being provided
with flexible claws, which may pass through the perforations
in said clock-case back, substantially as and for the purpose
set forth.
"3. In combination with mainspring B, perforated at b, the
lateral attaching-finger a on flange C' of plate 0, said Frts
being constructed and applied substantially as and for the purpose set forth.
"4. In combination with mainspring B, the fixed plate C

PARKEG AND WHIPPLE CO. v. YALE CLOCK CO.

93

Opinion of the Court.

and its flanges, C', forming a barrel for said spring, but allowing inspection of the latter between the flanges C', substantially as set forth.
"5. In combination with mainspring B and fixed, plate C,
the rotating plate F and its hub G, said hub extending through
plate 0 for the attachment of the spring, substantially .asset
forth.
"6. In combination with ratchet V, a verge-like automatic
winding-dog U, held in proper position for catching by the
forward motion of said ratchet.
"7I. In combination with a pillar-plate, a fixed circular
rack having an annular inner recess to receive said plate,
whereby said rack serves also the purpose of attaching said
plate, and the said parts are made to occupy the least possible
space.
"8. In combination with a perforated front plate, a rear
pillar-plate, having twisted tongues on the ends of its pillars,
whereby said plates and pillars are clamped together, substantially as set forth.
"9. In combination with a pendulum-rod and adjustable
pendulum-ball, a spring arranged to force said ball down
against the adjusting-nut.
"10. In combination with a pendulum-rod and an adjustable pendulum-ball, a spring fitted into a recess of said ball and
operating to force the latter down against the said nut.
"11. In combination with the adjusting-nut of a pendulum,
a clock-case bottom, perforated at A 2, and a key having a
prismatic recess fitting said nut, whereby the height of the
pendulum-ball may be adjusted by the key from the outside
of the clock-case, substantially as set forth.
"12. In combination with a hollow, internally threaded
winding-hub, G, a key having a screw-threaded portion for eng-aging with said hub, and a prismatically recessed portion for
passing through said hub and engaging with the centre shaft."
The reissue contains ten claims, as follows:
"1. In a clock movement having a frame consisting of three
plates suitably connected together, a train which is divided
into two parts, a front part and a back part, the front part

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

arranged between the front and middle plates of the frame,
and the back part arranged between the middle and back
plates of the frame, the point of division being between the
centre wheel and centre pinion, the said centre wheel and centre pinion being arranged on the centre arbor carrying the
minute-hand, as-set forth.
"2. In a clock movement having a frame consisting of three
plates suitably connected together, the middle plate of the
frame, the said middle plate dividing the train into two parts
between the centre wheel and centre pinion, the said centre
wheel and centre pinion being arranged on the centre arbor
carrying the minute-hand, as set forth.
"3. In a clock movement, a frame consisting of three plates
suitably connected together, the middle plate of which divides
the train into two parts between the centre wheel and centre
pinion, the said centre wheel and centre pinion being arranged
on the centre arbor carrying the minute-hand, and the frame
having the parts of the divided train arranged between its
three plates, as set forth.
"4. In a clock movement having a frame consisting of three
plates suitably connected together, a centre arbor carrying the
minute-hand and provided with a centre wheel and centre
pinion, the wheel arranged between the front and middle plates
of the frame, and the pinion arranged between the middle and
back plates of the frame, as set forth.
"5. The improvement in a clock-train, consisting of three
wheels suitably fastened on arbors carrying pinions, and arranged between the escape-wheel and its arbor carrying a
pinion, and the centre arbor carrying the centre wheel and
centre pinion, as set forth.
"6. The improvement in a clock-train, consisting of three
wheels having the same number of teeth and the same diameters, suitably fastened on arbors, the pivots of which are
arranged in the circumferences of circles concentric with the
centre arbor, the several arbors carrying pinions having the
same number of leaves and the same diameters, all the said
parts arranged between the escape-wheel and its arbor carrying a pinion, and the centre arbor carrying, the centre wheel
and centre pinion, as set forth.

PARKER AND WHIPPLE CO. v. YALE CLOCK CO.

95

Opinion of the Court.

"7. The improvement in a clock-train, consisting in the
arrangement of the pivots of the escape-wheel arbor and of the
pivots of the three arbors carrying the three wheels and the
three pinions between the escape-wheel arbor and the centre
arbor carrying the centre wheel and centre pinion, in a semicircle, as set forth.
"8. In a clock movement, the combination, with a train
divided into two parts, a front part a nd a back part, by the
middle plate of a frame having three plates, the division being
made between the centre wheel and centre pinion, the said
centre wheel and centre pinion being arranged on the centre
arbor carrying the minute-hand, the escape-wheel being arranged in the front part of the train and near the top of the
frame, and the pivots of the front part of the train being
arranged within a semicircle, of a pendulum attached to an
arbor near the top of the frame and vibrating in a plane passing between the front and middle plates of the frame, as set
forth.
"9. In a clock movement provided with a circular rack, the
circular disk F, rotated by the mainspring and carrying the
planet-wheel E only,. which connects the rack with the centre
pinion, as set forth.
"10. In combination with a pendulum-rod, provided with
the plate S, fastened to the rod, a spring arranged on the rod, to
hold the pendulum-ball against the adjusting-nut, as set forth.",
The appellants contend that the first eight claims of the reissue do not specify any invention which is not contained in
the clock described in the original patent and embodied in the
model originally deposited in the Patent Office, and that the
drawings of the original and of the reissued patent are substantially the same. On these premises, it is argued for the
appellants, that it is lawful to include in the claims of a reissue
whatever is suggested, or substantially indicated, in the specification, model or drawings of the original patent, if the applicant was the original and first inventor thereof, and that-such
a reissue will, therefore, be for the same invention as that of
the original patent.
Expressions in some opinions of this court, wrested from

OCTOBER TERMI,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

theif, context and interpreted in a different sense from that in
which they were used, are cited to support these views; but
the language of the court on the subject has steadily been to
the contrary, and, as the question arises so distinctly in this
case, and some misapprehension exists in regard to it, it seems
proper to dis6uss it with some fulness.
The first statutory provision for the reissue of patents was
made by the 3d section of the Act of July 3d, 1832, c. 162,
4 Stat. 559. It provided for the reissue in certain cases "for
the same invention." This provision of the Act of 1832 was
superseded by § 13 of the Act of July 4th, 1836, c. 357, 5
Stat. 122, which provided, "that whenever any patent which
has heretofore been granted, or which shall hereafter be
granted, shall be inoperative, or invalid, by reason of a defective or insufficient description or specification, or by reason
of the patentee claiming in his specification, as his own invention, more than he had or shall have a right to claim as new;
if the error has, or shall have, arisen by inadvertency, accident,
or mistake, and without any fraudulent or deceptive intention,
it shall be lawful for the Commissioner, upon the surrender to
him of such patent, and the payment of the further duty of
fifteen dollars, to cause a new patent to be issued to the said
inventor, for the same invention."
This provision of the Act of 1836 was in turn superseded
by § 53 of the Act of July 8th, 1870, c. 230, 16 Stat. 205,
which provided, "that whenever any patent is inoperative or
invalid, by reason of a defective or insufficient specification,
or by reason of the patentee claiming as his own invention or
discovery more than he had a right to claim as new, if the
error has arisen by inadvertence, accident, or mistake, and
without any fraudulent or deceptive intention, the commissioner shall, on the surrender of such patent and the payment
of the duty required by law, cause a new patent for the same
invention, and in accordance with the corrected specification,
to be issued to the patentee." This provision of the Act of
1870 was enacted in the same language in § 4916 of the
Revised Statutes, and was the provision of law in force when
the reissue in the present case was granted.

PARKER AND WHIPPLE CO. v. YALE CLOCK CO. 97
Opinion of -the Court.

It is thus seen that in all the statutes on the subject of
reissues, the only authority granted to the Commissioner id
one to issue a new patent "for'the same invention."
The provision of the statute of 1836 has been before this
court in numerous cases. In Burr v. Du-yee, 1 Wall. 531,
577, at December Term, 1863, this court, speaking by Mr.
Justice Grier, said : "The surrender of valid patents, and the
granting of reissued patents thereon, with expanded or equivocal claims, where the original was clearly neither 'inoperative
nor invalid,' and whose specification is neither ' defective or
insufficient,' is a great abuse of the privilege granted by the
statute, and productive of great injury to the public. This
privilege was not given to the patentee oi! his assignee in order
that the patent may be rendered more elastic or expansive,
and therefore more ' available' for the suppression of all other
inventions."
The case of Seymour v. Osborne, 11 Wall. 516, was before
this court at December Term, 1870. The answer set up, as a
defence, that the reissued patents sued on were void, because
not granted for the same invention as that embodied in the
original patents. The court overruled the defence on the
ground stated by it, p. 544, that the original patents were not
in evidence in the case. Notwithstanding this, the opinion,
delivered by Mr. Justice Clifford, said: 'KReissued letterspatent must, by the express words of the section authorizing
the same, be for the same invention, and consequently where
it appears on a comparison of the two instruments, as matter
of law, that the reissued patent is not for the same invention
as that emlraced and secured in the original patent, the
reissued patent is invalid, as that state of facts shows that the
commissioner, in granting the new patent, exceeded his jurisdiction. Power is unquestionably conferred upon the commissioner to allow the specification to be amended if the patent
is inoperative or invalid, and in that event to issue the patent
in proper form; and he may, doubtless, under that authority,
allow the patentee to redescribe his invention and to include
in the description and claims of the patent not only what was
well described before, but whatever else was suggested or
VOL. caI--7

OCTOBER TERM1, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

substantially indicated in the specification or drawings which
properly belonged to the invention as actually made and perfected. Interpolations of new features, ingredients, or devices,
which were neither described, suggested, nor indicated in the
original patent, or patent office model, are not allowed, as it
is clear that the commissioner has no jurisdiction to grant a
reissue unless it be for the same invention as that embodied
in the original letters-patent, which necessarily excludes the
right on such an application to open the case to new parol
testimony and a new hearing as to the nature and extent of
the hnprovement, except in certain special cases, as provided
in a recent enactment not applicable to the case before the
court. Corrections ihay be made in the description, specification, or claim where the patentee has claimed as new more
than he had a right to claim, or where the description, specification, or claim is defective or insufficient, but he cannot
under such an application make material additions to the
invention which were not described, suggested, nor substantially indicated in the original specifications, drawings, or
patent office model.

.

.

.

Letters-patent reissued for an

invention substantially different from that embodied in the
original patent are void and of no effect, as no jurisdiction to
grant such a patent is conferred by any act of Congress upon
the commissioner, and he possesses no power in that behalf
except what the acts of Congress confer. Whether a reissued
patent is for the same invention as that embodied in the
original patent or for a different one, is a question for the
court in an equity suit, to be determined as a matter of construction, on a comparison of the two instruments, aided or
not by the testhnony of expert witnesses, as it may or may
not appear that one or both may contain technical terms or
terms of art requiring such assistance in ascertaining the true
meaning of the language employed."
In these extracts from the opinion it is seen that the court
adheres strictly to the view, that, under the statute, the Commissioner has no jurisdiction to grant a reissued patent for
an invention substantially different from that embodied in the
original patent, and that a reissue granted not in accordance

PARKER AND WHIPPLE CO. v. YALE CLOCK CO. 99
Opinion of the Court.

with that rule is void. In what is there said about redescribing the invention, and about including in the new description
and new claims what was suggested or indicated in the original specification, drawings or patent office model, it is clearly
to be understood, from the entire language, that the things so to
be included are only the things which properly belonged to the
invention as embodied in the original patent; that what that
invention was is to be ascertained by consulting the original
patent; and that, while the new description may properly contain things which are indicated in the original specification,
drawings or patent office model, (though not sufficiently described in the original specification,) it does not follow that
what was indicated in the original specification, drawings or
patent office model is to be considered as a part of the invention, unless the court can see, from a comparison of the two
patents, that the original patent embodied, as the invention
intended to be secured by it, what the claims of the reissue
are intended to cover.
In what was thus said in Seymour v. Osborne there is no
warrant for the view, that, ex vi termini, what was suggested
or indicated in the original specification, drawing or patent
office model is to be considered as a part of the invention
intended to have been covered by the original patent, unless
the court can see, from a comparison of the two patents, that
the invention which the original patent was intended to cover
fairly embraced the things thus suggested or indicated in the
original specification, drawings or patent office model, and
unless the original specification indicated that those things
were embraced in the invention intended to have been secured
by the original patent.
Seymour v. Osborne
The "recent enactment" referred to in.
is found in § 53 of the act of July 8th, 1870, in these words:
"but no new matter shall be introduced into the specification, nor in case of a machine patent shall the model or
drawings be amended, except each by the other; but when
there is neither model nor drawing, amendments may be made
upon proof satisfactory to the commissioner that such new
matter or amendment was a part of the original invention,

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

and was omitted from the specification by inadvertence, accident, or mistake, as aforesaid." This provision is now found
in the same words, in § 4916 of the Revised Statutes. The
last clause of it has no application to the present case, and,
therefore, its proper construction need not be considered.
The case of GiM v. Welle, 22 Wall. 1, at October Term,
1874, 'arose under the act of 1836. In that case, this court,
speaking by kr. Justice Clifford, said, p. 19: "Invalid and
inoperative patents may be surrendered and reissued for the
same invention, but Congress never intended that a patent
which was valid and operative should be reissued merely to
afford the patentee an opportunity to expand the exclusive
privlleges which it secures, to enable him to suppress subsequent improvements which do not conflict with the invention
described in the surrendered patent. Evidence of a decisive
character to f-et
hi-theory that such a practice finds.
any support in the act f Congress, besides what existed
before, is found in the new Patent Act," (the act of July
8th, 1870, § 53,) "which expressly provides that no new
matter shall be introduced into the specification; and in case
of a machine patent, that-neither the model nor the drawings
shall be amended except each by the other."
In the case of ,Powd-er Company v. Powder Wores, 98
U. S. 126, at October Term, 1878, this court, spealdng by
Mr. Justice Bradley, said, p. 137, in reference to the reissued
patents in that case: "These reissues being granted in 1872,
were subject to the law as it then stood, being the act of
July 8,-1870, the fifty-third section of which (reproduced in
§ 4916' of the Revised Statutes) relates to the matter in question. It seems to us impossible to read this section carefully
without coming to the conclusion that a reissue can only be
granted for the same invention which formed the subject of
the original patent of which it is a reissue. The express words
of the act are, Ia new patent for the same invention'; and
these words are copied from the act of 1836, which in this
respect was substantially the same as the act of 1870. The
specification may be amended so as to make it more clear and
distinct; the claim may be modified so aslo make it more

PARKER AND WHIPPLE CO. v. YALE CLOCK CO. 101
Opinion of the Court.

comformable to the exact rights of the patentee; but the invention must be the same. So particular is the law on this subject, that it is declared that ' no new matter shall be introduced
into the specification.' This prohibition is general, relating
to all patents; and by Inew matter' we suppose to be meant
new substantive matter, such as would have the effect of
changing the iniention, or of introducing what might be the
subject of another application for a patent. The danger to
be provided against was the temptation to amend a patent
so as to cover improvements which might have come into use,
or might have been invented by others, after its issue. The
legislature was willing to concede to the patentee the right to
amend his specification so as fully to describe and claim the
very invention attempted to be secured by his original patent,
and which was not fully secured thereby, in consequence of
inadvertence, accident, or mistake; but was not willing to
give him the right to patch up his patent by the addition of
other inventions, which, though they might be his, had not
been applied for by him, or, if applied for, had been abandoned
or waived. For such inventions he is required to make a new
application, subject to such rights as the public and other
inventors may- have acquired in the meantime. This, we
think, is what the present statute means, and what, indeed,
was the law before its enactment, under the previous act of
1836. If decisions can be found which present it in any different aspect, we cannot admit them to be correct expositions
of the law. The counsel for the complainant refers us to, and
places special reliance on, the last clause of § 53 of the act
of 1870, where it is said: 'But where there is neither nodel
nor drawing, amendments may be made upon proof satisfactory to the commissioner that such new matter or amendment
was a- part of the original invention, and was omitted from
the specification by inadvertence, accident, or mistake.' But
this clause relates only to the evidence which may be employed
by the commissioner in ascertaining the defects of the specification. It does not authorize him to grant a reissue for a
different invention, or to determine that one invention is the
same as another and different one, or that two inventions

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

essentially distinct constitute but one. In this case, it is not
necessary for us to decide, and we express no opinion, as
to the precise meaning and extent of the final clause of
§ 53, to which we have referred; as, whether it relates to all
patents, or only to patents for machines. But as it relates to
the matter of evidence alone, it cannot enlarge the power of
the commissioner in reference to the invention for which a
reissue may be granted. That power is restricted, by the
general terms of the section, to the same invention which was
originally patented."
If, by "new matter," in § 4916 of the Revised Statutes, is
meant such new substantive matter as might be the subject of
another application for a patent, there was new substantive
matter introduced into the specification of the reissue in the
present case; for the description set forth in that specification
as the foundation for the first eight claims in it, and those
eight claims themselves, might have been the subject of
another application for a patent, at the time the original
patent was applied for and taken out, leaving that patent
valid and operative in respect to the claims it covered.
In the present case, the infringing clock was made by the
defendant Lane more than six months before the reissue in
suit was applied for. As stated by the Circuit Court in its
opinion in this case, the Lane clock did not contain a single
patented feature of the Hotchkiss clock, and it was immediately patented and put upon the market. This, therefore, is
a case of the amendment of a patent so as to cover improvements not covered by the patent, and which came into use by
others than the patentee and his licensee, free from the protection of the patent.
There is no evidence of any attempt to secure by the
original patent the inventions covered by the first eight claims
of the reissue, and those inventions must be regarded as having been abandoned or waived, so far as the reissue in question is~concerned, subject, however, to the right to have made
a new application for a patent to cover them; in other words,
those eight claims axe not for the same invention which was
originally patented.

PARKER AND WHIPPLE CO. v. YALE CLOCK CO.

103

Opinion of the Court.

In .VcAhn v. ffar'wood, 112 U. S., 354, .359, at October Term,
1884, it was said by this court, speaking by Mr. Justice Bradley: "In this very matter of reissued patents, it has also been
frequently decided that it is a good defence, in a suit on
such a patent, to show that the commissioner exceeded his
authority in granting it. Such a defence is established by
showing that the reissued patent is for a different invention
from that described in the original, inasmuch as the statute
declares that it must be for the same invention."
The same view was taken in Coon v. TFilson, 113 U. S. 268,
277, at October Term, 1884, a case substantially like the present
one, where it was said: "Although this reissue was applied
for a little over three months after the original patent was
granted, the case is one where it is sought merely to enlarge
the claim of the original patent, by repeating that claim and
adding others; where no mistake or inadvertence is shown,
so far as the short or sectional bands are concerned; where
the patentee waited until the defendants produced their continuous band collar, and then applied for such enlarged claims
as to embrace the defendants' collar, which was not covered
by the claim of the original patent; and where it is apparent,
from a comparisoin of the two patents, that the reissue was
made to enlarge the scope of the original. As the rule is expressed in the recent case of JAahn v. Harwood, 112 U. S.
354, a patent ' cannot be lawfully reissued for the mere purpose of enlarging the claim, unless there has been a clear
mistake, inadvertently committed, in the wordirg of the
claim, and the application for a reissue is made within a
reasonably short period after the original patent was granted.'
But a clear mistake, inadvertently committed, in the wording
of the claim, is necessary, without reference to the length of
time. In the present case, there was no mistake in the wording of the claim of the original patent. The 'lescription
warranted no other claim. It did not warrant any claim
covering bands not short or sectional. The description had to
be changed in the reissue, to warra nt the new claims in the
reissue. The description in the reissue is not a more clear
and satisfactory statement of what is described in the original

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

patent, but is a description of a different thing, so ingeniously
worded as to cover collars with continuous long bands and
which have no short or sectional bands." See also Ives v. Saggent, 119 U. S. 652, 662, 663.
Reference was made on the argument to language used by
Mr. Justice Bradley, in delivering the opinion of this court in
the case of Tke CornplanterPatent,23 Wall. 181, 217, where
he said: "It may be remarked in passing, that, in our view,
the several reissues are for things contained within the machines and apparatus described in the original patents." The
There is
reissues referred to were sustained by this cour.
nothing in the remark thus made to show that the court did
not find the reissues to be for the same inventions as the
original patents, consistently with the views contained in the
other cases above referred to, or that the court did not follow
those views in deciding that case.
Comment is made by the appellants upon the fact that the
original specification states that the "mainspring occupies the
whole back of the spqce occupied by the works, so as to give
the greatest runiing power with the least possible expense of
room, one of the leading objects of my invention being to render it possible to make a cheap, reat, and- satisfactory timepiece of unusually small size;" and upon the further fact
that the specification of the reissue states that the invention has for its object "to make a clock movement which
shall be simple and durable in its construction, of small
,initial cost in manufacture, and the several parts of which
shall be relatively arrange4d in such manner that the movement may be enclosed in a small and compact case." It is
urged that every one of the claims of the reissue responds to
the object of making a cheap and small but satisfactory timepiece. But this statement, in the original specification, of the
object of the invention, in such general terms, cannot have the
effect of making the reissue one for the same invention as
that of the original, when it otherwise would not be. Such a
general statement contained no intimation that the invention
consisted in the matters covered by the first eight claims of
the reissue.
The decree of the Circuit Court is affrmed.

