-MTNA LIFE INS. CO. v. DAVEY.
Syllabus.

below, and, therefore, the fact that the court did not rule upon
them constitutes no ground for interference with the judgment.
The one exception taken was to the direction of the court upon
the evidence to find a verdict for the plaintiff for the amount
claimed. To that direction the defendant excepted, and it is
at liberty to show, either that there was sufficient evidence
to go to the jury, or that questions of law apparent upoA the
record would control the case in opposition to the direction.
But this it has not done. As tefore stated, there was no conflict in the evidence, and the law upon it was clearly with the
plaintiff.
The judg-ent is, therefore,
Afirmed.

ZIETNA LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v. DAVEY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE U'NITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.
Argued November 23, 1SS7. - Decided December 19, 1887.

A policy of life insurance contained questions to the applicant with his answers, and provisions that the answers were warranted to be true, and that
the policy should be void if they were in any respect false or fraudulent.
Among these questions and answers'were the following: "5. Q. Are the
habits of the party sober and temperate? A. Yes. 6. Q. Has the party
ever been addicted to the excessive or intemperate use of any alcoholic
stimulants or opium, or does lie use any of them often or daily? A. No."
It also contained a provision that if the applicant should become so far
intemperate as to impair health or induce delirium trernens, it should
become void. After the death of the assured the in~urer defended
against an action on the policy by setting up (1) that the answers to
these questions were false; and (2) that the deceased, after the issue of
the policy, became intemperate, impaired his health thereby, and induced
delirium tremens. .eld.
(1) That an instruction to the jury as to question 6 that they could not
find the answer to be untrue unless the assured had, prior to the
issue of the policy, been addicted to the excessive or intemperate
use of alcoholic stimulants or opium, or, at the time of the application, habitually used some of them often or daily, was a correct

OCTOBER TERAI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.
construction of the language of question 6, as interpreted in con.
nection with question 5.
(2) That if the death was substantially caused by the excessive use of
alcoholic stimulants, not .taken for medical purposes or under
medical advice, the assured's health was impaired by intemperance
)vithin the meaning of the policy, although he might not have had
de i ium tremens, and although he had not indulged in strong drink
for such a long period of time or so frequently as to become habitually intemperate; and that it was for the jury to determine
whether the death was so caused.

THIs was an action in the nature of assumpsit upon a policy
of insurance. Judgment for plaintiff. Defendant sued out
this writ of error. The case is stated in the opinion of the
court.
Mr. [Theron. G. Strong for plaintiff in error.
MAlr. John Iinn for defendant in error.
MR. JusTIcE

lHlRL.&

delivered the opinion of the court.

By its policy, issued July 16, 1878, the zEtna Life Insurance
Company insured the life of William A. Davey in the sum of
ten thousand dollars, payable to his wife, the present defendant in error, within *ninetydays "after due notice and proof
of the death" of the insured, during the -continuance of the
policy. Among the questions in the application for the policy
were the following: "5. Are the habits of the party sober
and temperate? 6. Has the party ever been addicted to the
excessive or intemperate use of any alcoholic stimulants or
opium, or does he use any of them often or daily ?" To the
first question the answer was "Yes;" to the second, "No."
The application, which by agreement was made the basis of
the contract, contained a warranty of the truth of the answers
to the above and other questions, and that the policy should
be void if they were in any respect false or fraudulent.
The policy was issued and accepted upon the following
among other conditions: 1. That the answers, statements,
representations, and declarations contained in or endorsed
upon the application, made part of the contract, are war-

TNA LIFE INS. CO. v. DAVEY.
Opinion of the Court.

ranted to be true in all respects, and that the policy should
be absolutely null and void if obtained by or through any
fraud, misrepresentation, coicealment, or false- statement; 2.
That if "the insured '1shall become so far'intemperate as to,
impair his health or induce deliu"im tremens, or-if his death
shall result from injuries received while under the influence
of alcoholic liquor," the policy should be null and void, except
as provided in the eighth section of the conditions. The latter
section is in these words: "In every case when the -policy
shall cease, be or become void (except by fraud, misrepresentation, concealment, or any, false statement), if the premiums
for three entire years shall iiave been paid, the amount which
by the seventh section of these conditions would be applied to
the purchase of a paid-up policy, shall not be forfeited to the
said company, but the same shall be due and payable in ninety
days after due notice and proof of death of the said insured."
The inshred died August 6, 1881, while on a visit at Alexandria Bay. The company having received due notice and
proof of his death, and having refused to pay the amount
named in the policy, this action was brought by his widow.
The company, besides pleading the general issue, made these
special defences: That, contrary to the statements made in
his *application, the insured, for a long time prior to the issuing
of the policy, was addicted to the excessive and intemperate
use of alcoholic stimulants, and had used them often and
daily; and that, in violation- of one of the conditions of the
contract, he became, after the issuing of the policy, so far
intemperate as greatly to impair his health and to induce
delirium trernens.
At the trial, evidence was introduced tending to establish
both of these special defences. But there was also evidence
tonding to show that the insured was not, prior to the issuing
of the policy, addicted to the excessive or intemperate use of
alcoholic stimulants, and that he did not, after that date,.become so far intemperate as to impair his health or induce
dclirium tremens.
There was a verdict and judgment for the plaintiff for the
named in the policy, with damages to the amount of
sum
$1419.82.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

Upon the issue as to the truth or falsity of the answer to
the sixth question in the application for the policy, the court
instructed the jury, in substance, that they could not find the
answer to be untrue, unless the insured had, prior to the issuing of the policy, been addicted to the excessive or intemperate
use of alcoholic stimulants or opium, or at the time of the
application habitually used some of them often or daily. The
charge, upon this point, followed almost the identical words
of the question-propounded to the insured, and is unobjectionable, unless, as is contended, the court erred in using the word
"habitually;" implying thereby that the answer of "No"
was a fair and true one, if the 'use by the insured of stimulants,
at the time the policy was issued, was not so frequent or to
such an extent as to indicate, in that respect, a fixed, settled
course or habit of life. We are of opinion that the question
put to the insured was properly interpreted by the court.
The inquiry as to whether the insured had ever been addicted
to the excessive or intemperate use of alcoholic stimulants,
and, whether, at the time of the application, he used alcoholic
stimulants "often or daily" was, iheffect, an inquiry as to his
habit in that regard ; not whether he used such stimulants or
opium at all, but whether he used any of them habitually.
If he was addicted to the excessive use of them, he was habitually intemperate; and to use them often or daily is, according to the ordinary acceptation of those words, to use them
habitually. That this is the correct interpretation of the
words is partly shown b~y the fifth question, "Are the habits
of the party sober and temperate?"
But we are of opinion that the court below erred in its interpretation of the words in the policy which refer to the use
of strong drinks by the insured after he 6btained it. Having
secured his agreement and warranty that he was not at that
time, nor ever had been, habitually intemperate, the company
sought to protect itself against an improper use by him, in
the future, of alcoholie stimulants, by the provision that the
policy should become null and void "if he shall become so far
intemperate as to impair health or induce delirium trenzenz."
The court instructed the jury: "The impairment of health

7ETNA LIFE INS. CO. v. DAVEY.
Opinion of the Court.

contemplated by this condition of the policy is not necessarily
permanent or irremediable, nor is it the temporary indisposition
or disturbance usually resulting from a drunken -4ebauch,but
it is the development of disease or the impairment of constitutional vigor by the use of intoxicating beverage§ in such a
degree and for such a time as is ordinarily understood to constitute intemperance."
The defendant then asked the court to say to the jury that
the words in the policy, "become so far intemperate as to
impair health," do not necessarily imply habitual intemperance, and that an act of intemperance, producing impairment
of health, was within the conditions of the policy, and rendered it null and void, except as provided where the premiums
for three entire years had been paid, and the policy had
ceased upon other grounds than fraud, misrepresentation, concealment, or false statement of the insured. The court declined to so instruct the jury, and said: "The words of the
condition are to be expounded according to the common and
popular acceptation of their meaning. In this sense of them
a single excessive indulgence in alcoholic liquors is not intemperance, but there must be such frequency in their use, continued for a longer or shorter period, as indicates an injurious
addiction to such indulgence." The effect of these and other
instructions was that the condition that the policy should be
void if the insured became so far intemperate as to impair his
health, was not broken unless intemperance became the habit
or rule of his life after the policy was issued. The jury may
have believed -and there was some, we do not say conclusive,
evidence, to justify them in so believing -that the efficient,
controlling cause of the death of the insured was an excessive
and continuous use of strong drinks for several days and
nights immediately preceding his death; yet they were not at
liberty, under the instructions, to find that he became so far
intemperate as to impair his health, unless it further appeared
that his intemperance in the use of alcoholic stimulants covered
such a period of time, as to constitute the habit of his life.
This construction of the contract is, in our judgment, erroneous. If the substantial cause of the death of the insured was

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

an excessive use of alcoholic stimulants, not taken in good
faith for medical purposes or under medical advice, his health
was impaired by intemperance, within the meaning of the
words "so far intemperate as to impair his health," although
he may not have had delirium, tremens, and although, previously to his last illness, he had not indulged in strong drink
for such a long period of time or so frequently as to become
habitually .intemperate. Whether death was so caused is a
matter to be determined by the jury under all the evidence.
It is supposed by the plaintiff that the instructions of the court
are sustained by ].'orthwestern-Ins. Co. v. Xluskegon Bank, 122
U. S. 502. In that case the insured answered "Yes, occasionally," to the question whether he then was or had ever been
"in the habit of using alcoholic beverages or other stimulants;"
and stipulated, in the application, that he was not then, and
would not become, "habitually intemperate." The policy
contained a provision, not fully set out in the report of the case,
that it should be null and void if the insured "shall become
either habitually intemperate or so far intemperate as to impair health or induce delirium trem-ns." No question was
made or could have been made in this court in respect to the
meaning of the words "so far intemperate as to impair health,"
because the jury were instructed, at the request of the company,
that if the insured, Comstock, became so far intemperate as to
impair his health, they must find for the defendant. The contest in this court was as to what constituted habitual intemperance, and as to the rulings in the court below upon that point.
Indeed, it was assumed at the trial of that case, as well as in
this court, that there was, or might be, a difference between
habitual intemperance and intemperance that impaired health.
There was, consequently, no occasion for this court, in that
case, to decide what construction was to be put upon the words
"so far intemperate as to impair health," when standing alone
in a policy. The jury having found, under proper instructions,
that the insured had not become so far intemperate as to impair his health, that finding was not open to review here. It
is clear, therefore, that there is nothing in .Northwester Ins.
Co. v. -MI.uskegon Bank that concludes the present case, or that
militates against our interpretation of the policy here in suit.

TALKINGTON v. DUMIBLETON.
Opinion of the Court.

Other questions have been discussed by counsel; but, as they
may not arise upon another trial, or in the precise form in
which they are now presented, we will not consider them.
For the reasons stated,
-The judgment .TtW.t be reversed, with directions.for anot/ewr
trial in accordance with the prinwiples of this opinion.
It is so ordered.

TALKINGTON v. DUIBLETON.
APPEAL FROX ThE CIRCUIT

cOURT

OF THE

STATES FOR

UNITED

ThE DISTRICT OF OREGON.
Submitted December 15, I37.

Decided December 19, 1S7.

When the value of the property in dispute is one of the questions in the
case and was necessarily involved in its determination in the court
below, this court will not. on a motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction, consider affidavits tending to contradict the finding of that court in
respect of its value.

MOTION to dismiss for want of jurisdiction.
stated in the opinion of the court.

.Xir. _Franko

The case is

. Drake for the motion.

J2L,'. John i. .AMitchell opposing.
MR. CHIEF JUSTIcE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This suit was brought on the 10th. of April, 1886, by Henrv
M. Dumbleton, the appellee, to set aside a conveyance of
lands made by hiiii to F. P. Talkington, one of the appellants.
on the 23d of February, 1885, in exchange. for the interest of
Talkington in a saloon, on the ground that the exchange was
brought about and the con veyance obtained by the false and
fraudulent representations of Talldngton as to the value of
his property. In his bill Dumbleton alleged that the value of
the land was $7000, and that Talkington represented to him

