OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Syllabus.

WILSON v. RIDDLE.
APPEAL FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
TIE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

Argued November 30, December 1, 1887-Decided December 12,

1887.

In April, 1853, R. made a deed to himself, as trustee, of land in Georgia,
for the benefit of his wife and their children, during the life of the wife,
and, after her death, of such children, which deed was recorded in May,
1853, in the office of the clerk of the Superior Court of the county in
which H. resided. In May, 1870, It. mortgaged to W. the trust land and
other land. W. foreclosed the mortgage, and on a sale, in 1876, bid in
the mortgaged lands, and obtained from the sheriff a deed of them and
took possession of them. In 181, the beneficiaries under the trust deed
brought a bill in equity in the Circuit Court of the United States, against
W., to have the trust established. Among the defences set up by AV., he
alleged that the trust deed was fabricated after the mortgage was made,
and was antedated, and that lie had no notice of the existence of the
trust deed at or before the execution of the mortgage of Mfay, 1870, or
before the sheriff's sale in 1876. The Circuit Court, without making any
previous order for the trial of issues of fact by a jury, had a trial by
jury of the two questions above mentioned. The jury found in favor
of the plaintiffs on both questions. The defendant had bills of exceptions signed to the rejection of evidence and to the instructions to the
jury. The suit in equity was heard by the same judge who presided at
the jury trial. No motion was made for a new trial. The decree was
for the plaintiffs, on the same proofs which were before the jury. onl
appeal by the defendant, Held:
(1) No previous order for a jury trial was necessary, nor any certificate
to the chancellor of the findings;
(2) The submission to the jury of the particular issues was not an unlawful exercise of the discretion of the Circuit Court;
(3) The formal exceptions taken on. the jury trial will not be considered
by this court;
(4) The decree was correct, on the facts;
(5) The voluntary settlement was authorized by the statute law of
Georgia in force at the time it was made, it having been recorded
within three months, and was good against WY.,under such statute
law, because of the notice of its existence, which he so had.

Decree in favor of plaintiffs. Defendant apThe case is stated in the opinion of the court.

IN EQUITY.

pealed.

WILSON v. RIDDLE.
Opinion of the Court.

-3fr. Clifford Anderson for appellant.
.Ar. George A. Mercer for appellees.
M.

JvTSTIcE BLATOHiORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity, in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of Georgia, originally brought
as an action of ejectment, by the wife of William C. Riddle,
four of their married daughters, an unmarried daughter, three
sons, and two daughters of a deceased daughter, against J.
Ben. Wilson, in the Superior Court of the county of Washington, in the State of Georgia, in August, 1881, to recover the
possession of 1500 acres of land, and the mesne profits thereof,
alleged to be of the yearly value of $1300, since the 1st of
January, 187.
The original petition, by which the suit was brought, alleged
that in the year 1853 the said William C. Riddle, then being
the owner of the 1500 acres of land, conveyed the same, by
deed of trust, to himself, as trustee for the petitioners, and
that, although the defendant was in possession of the land,
setting up a claim of title adverse to the title of the trustee
and of the petitioners, Riddle, in violation of his trust, refused
to bring suit for the recovery of the land or to collect the
rents and profits.
In March, 1882, T. Ben. Wilson appeared and disclaimed all
title to the land in dispute, and averred that he had never
received any of the rents or profits thereof. At the same
time, Benjamin J. Wilson, his father, appeared and asked to be
made a party to the suit, claiming to be the owner of the land
in dispute, and was, by an order of the court, made a party
defendant. He being an alien, and the petitioners being- citizens of Georgia, the suit was removed by him into the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of
Georgia, under the act of March 3, 1875. After the removal of the cause, the original petition or declaration was
amended by adding, as parties plaintiff, William C. Riddle and
the husbands of the four married daughters. The Circuit
Court then, by an order, placed the case on the equity docket,
VOL. cxxn--39

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

and directed that the plaintiffs reform their pleading, so as to
present their cause of action in an equitable shape.
In December, 1882, all of the above named plaintiffs filed in
the Circuit Court a bill in equity against Benjamin J. Wilson,
making the following averments: On the 23d of April, 1853,
William C. Riddle, in cbnsideration of natural love and affection for his wife and children, conveyed to himself, as trustee,
for the use, benefit, and advantage of his wife and their children, for and during the natural life of the wife, "and, on her
decease, to such child or children, or representative of child or
children, as she might leave in life," two tracts of land in the
county of WAashington, one of 1000 acres, known as the
Brantley Mlill place, and the other of 500 acres, known as the
Brown place, to be held forever free from the debts, liabilities,
and contracts of Riddle and all other persons. The trust deed
was duly recorded, on the 26th of May, 1853, in the office of
the clerk of the Superior Court of the county of Washington.
Riddle, after the conveyance, held the lands as trustee for his
wife and children only, and under the terms of the trust deed.
In 1866, Riddle was engaged in planting operations, and, in
order to raise money, applied to the firm of Wilkinson & Wilson, doing business in Savannah, of which the defendant was
a member. That firm, in consideration of consignments of
cotton to be sent to them by Riddle, advanced to him, on his
own account and not for the trust estate, large sums of money.
The defendant was obliged to raise the money so supplied on
the credit of his firm, and to furnish to parties advancing the
money to his firm planters' notes and mortgages and other
collateral security. On. his request, Riddle gave a mortgage
lien, for a large amount, upon lands owned by him in his own
right, and in that mortgage included the lands embraced in
the trust deed. Riddle, at the time he created such mortgage
lien, notified the defendant that part of the lands was trust
property, but the defendant replied that it did not matter, as
he only wished to use the lien as' collateral. The defendant
took the lien with full notice that it included the trust estate,
as well as the individual property, of -Riddle. In 1870, the
first mortgage was cancelled and a new mortgage lien was

WILSON v. RIDDLE.

1611

Opinion of the Court.

given to the defendant, at his request, which lien was taken by
him with full notice that the trust estate was included in the
lien. The defendant, with such knowledge, caused the lien to
be foreclosed, and, in 187'7, bid in all the lands covered by it,
including the trust estate, and caused a deed of the lands to be
made to him by the sheriff of the county, and took possession
of the trust estate with full notice of the rights of the plaintiffs. An answer on oath is waived, and the prayer of the bill
is for a decree for the restoration to the plaintiffs of the trust
lands and the recovery of the mesne profits; that the defendant be adjudged to hold the lands only as trustee for the
plaintiffs, and be required to convey them to Riddle, or some
other person, as trustee, on the uses and trusts contained in
the deed; that the mortgage lien and the deed to the defendant under the foreclosure be -declared null and void as to the
trust estate, and reformed or cancelled, so as to remove the
cloud upon the title of the plaintiffs; and for general relief.
The answer of the defendant to the bill, filed in February,
1883, raises an issue as to the making and recording of the
deed of trust. It avers, that, after the date of the deed, Riddle
continued in possession of the land as before, claiming and
using it, and paying taxes on it as owner, in his individual
capacity, and not as trustee. It admits that the firm of Wilkinson & Wilson furnished money and plantation supplies to
Riddle, from 1866 to 1870, on consignments by him of cotton
to that firm. It avers that, at the close of the transactions,
Riddle owed the firm over $80,000; that he gave no notice of
any trust; that he gave a mortgage, as security for such indebtedness, covering his entire plantation and embracing the
lands in controversy, with others; that he did not, before or at
the time of the execution of the mortgage, notify the defendant that part of the lands was trust property; that he was
then in possession of the premises, using them as his own; that
the first mortgage was superseded by a second one, which was
also taken without notice and under like circumstances of possession and use by Riddle; that money and supplies were
advanced on the faith of the second mortgage; that, after its
foreclosure, the whole mortgaged premises, except 3000 acres,

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

were sold at sheriff's sale under the mortgage ft.fa., and the
defendant became the purchaser; that at the sale no distinct
notice was given of the trust claim or any particular claim, nor
was any specific portion of the premises sold designated as the
subject of an adverse title; that something was said to the
effect that whoever bought would have trouble, but the warning, such as it was, applied alike to all the premises sold, and
there was nothing to restrict it to the land in controversy or
any other definite part; that the defendant heard nothing then
about any trust; that the 3000 acres not sold had been claimed,
in the mode applicable to. claims under the laws of Georgia, by
Mrs. Riddle, and so could not be sold at that time; that she
suffered the property now in controversy to be sold, without
interposing any claim to it, although it was embraced in the
same levy with the 3000 acres which she did claim; that it is
not true that the defendant knew that the mortgage deed included any trust land when he caused the mortgage to be foreclosed, nor did he know that the lands now in controversy were
trust lands when he purchased them at the sale and took the
sheriff's deed for them, nor did he have notice of the alleged
right of the plaintiffs when he took possession of his purchase,
unless what was so said at the sale, as above set forth,
amounted to such notice; and that, even if it did, the right of
the defendant could not be affected by notice, as he and his
firm were innocent mortgagees for value, and had no notice at
the time they gave credit and took the security. In April,
1883, the answer was amended by averring that the trust deed
was not executed, signed, or delivered, nor even written, at
the time it bears date, nor until within the last few years; that
it is a much younger instrument than the mortgage under
which the defendant claims title; and that it was fabricated
and antedated, and not recorded, and could not have been
recorded, at the time the certificate of record entered on it
represents it to have been recorded.
Issue being joined, the proofs on both sides were taken by
depositions, according to the usual practice in equity cases.
In December, 1883, a jury trial was had. The record does not
disclose any order of court for the trial of feigned issues, or

WILSON v. RIDDLE.
Opinion of the Court.

of issues of fact, by a jury, but merely states, that, on the 5th
of December, 1883, a jury was empanelled to try certain issues
of fact, and gives the names of the jurors, and states the
appearance of the respective parties at the trial, and the result,

as follows:
"To the first issue of fact submitted by the court, to wit,
'Is the deed of trust presented a true, valid, and authentic
instrument executed at the time it purports to be I
"We, the jury, find that the deed of trust presented is a
true, valid, and authentic instrument executed at the time it
purports to be."
"To the second issue of fact submitted by the court, to wit,
'Did the defendant, B. J. Wilson, have notice of the-existence
of this trust deed at or before the execution of mortgage by
plaintiff to defendant, May 5i 1870, or before the sheriff's sale
in 1876 ?'
"We, the. jury, find that the defendant, B. X. Wilson, had
notice of the existence of this trust deed at or before the execution of the mortgage by plaintiff to defendant, May 5, 1870,
and before the sheriff's sale in 1876."
There are eight bills of exceptions found in the record.
One of them sets forth an except-ion by the defendant to the
submission to a jury of the issues of fact arising in the case;
four of them contain exceptions by the defendant to the rejection of evidence; and three of them contain exceptions to
instructions given to the jury.
On the 6th of December, 1883, the Circuit Court made a
final decree, which contains no reference to the jury trial, but
states that the cause came on to be heard and was argued by
counsel, and that the court; upon the proof submitted, finds
and decrees that the deed of trust "is a true, valid, and authentic instrument, executed at the time it purports t6 be;"
and "that the defendant, B. J. Wilson, had notice of the
existence of this trust deed at or before the execution of the
mortgage by the complainant, William C. Riddle, to defendant, May 5, 1870, and before the sheriff's sale in 1876."
These findings are in the exact language of the findings of the
jury. The decree then proceeds to adjudge that the defendant

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

acquired no valid title to the lands embraced in the trust deed
by virtue of the sheriff's deed made to him in 1876; that the
1500 acres of land embraced in the trust deed are the property
of the wife of Riddle and her children and grandchildren,
under the terms and provisions of the trust deed; that the
decree, by its own force and effect, establishes in and confirms
to Riddle, trustee, and his successors in the trust, his right and
title to the land, with the appurtenances and the rents and
profits, upon the uses and trusts set forth in the deed, with
full right to the possession, use, and control of the same; that
the defendant, by the 1st of January, 1884, do restore the possession, use, and control of the trust estate to Riddle, trustee,
and his successors in the trust; that the mortgage lien created
by Riddle, Mlay 5, 1870, to the defendant, and the deed executed and delivered to the defendant by the sheriff of the
county of Washington in 1876, are null, void, and of no effect,
as to the land and appurtenances embraced in the trust deed;
and that the plaintiffs are entitled to $3166.50 for the rents
and mesne profits of the land, from the period when the
defendant first took possession and control of it to the date of
the decree, to be recovered by Riddle, trustee, or his successors
in the trust; that process of execution for the recovery of the
same issue against the property of the defendant; and that the
plaintiffs recover from him the costs of the suit. From this
decree the defendant has appealed to this court.
The defendant objects to the submission to the jury of the
issues of fact, on the ground that the chancellor should have
first made an order directing a trial by a jury, at law, on issues
framed; that the verdict of the jury on such issues should
have been duly certified to the chancellor; that, on the contrary, a jury was called into the court of chancery and issues
were submitted to it by the chancellor; that the findings of
the jury .were not properly before the chancellor, and he
should have given no weight to them; and that no weight
should be given to them by this court.
But we are of opinion that there is no force in this objection.
It appears by the record that the same judge before whbm the
jury trial was had, acted as chancellor in making the decree in

WILSON v. RIDDLE.
Opinion of the Court.

the suit in equity; and that the proofs taken and relied upon
on the hearing in the suit in equity were the same proofs
which were before the jury on the trial of the issues of fact.
Under these circumstances, a previous order for the trial by
jury, and ary certificate of the result, by the judge presiding
on the trial, to himself as chancellor, were unnecessary, although
it would have been more formal if the court in equity had
ordered a jury to be empanelled on the law side of the court,
and the verdict had been certified by the clerk to the equity
side, as was done in -er'rv. South Park Commissioners, 117
U. S. 379.
As to the objection to the submission to the jury of the
issues passed upon by them, it is sufficient to say that the
question of such submission was one for the discretion of the
Circuit Court, and that it seems to have been not an unlawful
exercise of such discretion to submit to the jury the particular
issues upon which they passed.
The defendant assigns for error the rejections of evidence
set -forth in the bills of exceptions, and the instructions to the
jury which were excepted to. No motion for a new trial was
made in the Circuit Court. The submission of the issues to the
jury was for the information of the conscience of the chancellor. It is evident, from the terms of the decree, that the
chancellor adopted the findings of the jury as being satisfactory to him upon the whole testimony in the case, for the
decree states that the court makes its finding "upon the proof
submitted." Under such circumstances, it is not the practice
of an appellate court to consider formal exceptions to rulings
in the course of the trial of the issues before the jury. B'ockett
v. Brockett, 3 How. 691; Johznson v. Harmon, 94: U. S. 371;
Watt v. Starke, 101 U. S. 247.
On the two issues submitted to the jury, we concur with the
Circuit Court in its conclusions stated in the decree, which
were in accordance with the findings of the jury, and in its
other conclusions stated in the decree. We understand the
finding of the decree to be, that the defendant had actual, and
not merely constructive, notice of the existence of the trust
deed, at or before the execution of the mortgage to him in

OCTOBER TERMA,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

1870, and before the sheriff's sale in 1876; and we concur in
that finding. It is not necessary to discuss the evidence.
1Nor do we consider it necessary to pass upon the question
of the effect, as constructive notice to the defendant, of the
recording of the trust deed in the office of the clerk of the
Superior Court of Washington County, in May, 1853, in view
of the destruction of the records of deeds in that office by fire
in 1864.
The defendant had no dealings, as a, creditor, with Riddle,.
until the fall of 1866, but nevertheless he contends, that a voluntary deed of trust, such as that in the present case, was not
good as against him, as a bona Xfde purchaser or mortgagee for
value, even though he had actual notice of the voluntary deed
at the time of the purchase or mortgage. We understand the
law of Georgia to have been otherwise. A voluntary settlement such as was made in this case was authorized by the
statute law of Georgia in force at the time, provided the conveyance was recorded in the office of the clerk of the Superior
Court of the county of the residence of the husband, within
three months after its execution. That was done in the present case, as the proof shows.
Section 1776 of the Code of Georgia, in force at the time the
deed was made, provided that a husband might, at any time
during coverture, either through trustees, or directly to his
wvife, convey any property, subject to the rights of prior purchasers or creditors without notice. Such a conveyance for
the benefit of the children and gTandchildren of the grantor,
was also valid, if he was solvent, and if the provision was a
proper one and free from fraud. Section 1778 of the Code,
enacted in 1847, provided that every voluntary settlement
-made by the husband on the wife should be recorded in the
office of the Superior Court of the county of the residence of
the husband within three months after the execution thereof;
and that, on failure to comply with this provision, such settlement should not be of any force or effect against a purchacer,
or creditor, or surety, who bonac fide and without notice, might
become such before the actual recording of the same. Section
2805 provides that a trust estate may be created for the use of

ZECKENDORF v. JOHNSON.
Counsel for Parties.

some other person than the grantee; that no formal words are

necessary to create such an estate; and that, whenever a manifest intention is exhibited that another person shall have the
benefit of the property, the grantee shall be declared a trustee.
Section 2632 provides that every voluntary deed shall be void
as against subsequent bona fide purchasers for value without
notice of such voluntary conveyance. It follqws, from these
provisions, that as the deed in this case was recorded in due
time, it was valid as against the defendant, who had notice of
it before the mortgage to him of Mlay, 1870, was executed, and
before the sheriff's sale in 1876. This result is in accordance
with the decisions of the Supreme Court of Georgia. Gordon.
v. Green, 10 Geo. 531, 543; -Born v. Ross, 20 Geo. 210, 223;
C'ummins v. Boston, 25 Geo. 271, 283; Browm v. Spivey, 53
Geo. 155; Adair v. Davis, 7-1 Geo. 769.
The decree of the Circuit Court is
Ajffrrned.

ZECKENDORF v. JOHNSON.
APPEAL FROM THE

SUPREME

COURT OF

THE TERRITORY OF ARI-

ZONA.
Submitted November 21,1587.-Decided December 12, 1587.

The value of the matter in dispute is to be determined by the amount due
at the time of the judgment of the court below, which is brought here
for review, including interest up to the time of the judgment of the
Appellate Court, if the appeal is from an Appellate Court, and the judgment which is taken to the Appellate Court bears interest.
Findings of fact in the court below are conclusive, and cannot be reexamined here.

Tins was a motion to dismiss, with which was united a
motion to affirm. The case is stated in the opinion of the
court.

-Mr. Van B. -Manning and Abr. J B. Edmonds for the
motions.

