ORIENT INSURANCE CO. v. ADAMS.
Syllabus.

MR. JUSTICE IIARLAN:
The rehearing asked is denied and the mandate is modified
so as to read as follows-:
"The decree, in so far as it dismisses the original libel of
the appellants, the Sun Mutual Insurance Company of New
Orleans and the Hibernia Insurance Company of New Orleans,
and adjudges that the M. Moore Transportation Company and

the K. P. Kountz Transportation Company, respectively,
recover from said appellants the cost and expenses of the
seizure, detention and sale of the steamboats J. B. l. Kehlor
and Katie P. Kountz, respectively, is reversed, and the cause
is remanded with directions to the court below to set aside

all orders inconsistent with the rights of said appellants as
declared in the opinion of this court, and to enter such orders

and decrees as may be in conformity therewith."

ORIENT INSURANCE
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

COMPANY v. ADAMS.
OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Argued April la, 18S7.-Decided October 24, 1887.

In the absence of fraud or design, misconduct on the part of the master of
a vessel covered by a policy of insurance will not defeat a recovery on
the policy, when the proximate cause of the loss is a peril covered by it.
A provision in a policy of insurance of a steam vessel that the insurer shall
not be liable for losses occasioned by "the derangement or breaking
of the engine or machinery or any consequences resulting therefrom"
relates to losses of which the derangement or breaking is the proximate
cause, and not to such as are a remote consequence of either.
The abandonment of a vessel for total loss, made in good faith at a time
when it was in reasonable probability impracticable to recover and
repair it, and when the damage from the perils insured against amounted
in like probability to more than fifty per cent of the value, is a valid
abandonment within the terms of a policy which provides that there
shall be "no abandonment as for a total loss," unless the injury sustained
be equivalent to fifty per cent of the agreed value;- although by a

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.
change of circumstances it afterwards became practicable to float off the
vessel, and thereby the loss was reduced below fifty per cent of that
value.

Tis was an action to recover on a policy of marine insurance. Judgment for plaintiff. Defendant sued out this writ
of error. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.&. James lowndes for plaintiff in error cited Rollingsworth v. Brodrick, 7 A. & E. 40; Thompson v. -Hopper,6 El.
& Bl. 937; Siordett v. Hall, 4 Bing. 607; Pipon v. Cope,
1 Camp. 434; -Law v. JHollingsworth, 7 T. R. 160; Bell v.
Oarstairs, 14 East, 374, 429; American Ins. Co. v. Ogden,
20 Wend. 287; Chandler v. Worcester Ins. Co., 3 Cush. 328;
lFilliamsv. .New England Ins. Co., 3 Cliff. 244; [The Ttania,
[9 Fed. Rep. 101; azard v. X. E. Insurance Co., 1 Sumner,
218; Hall v..F;'anldin Ins. Co., 9 Pick. 466; Commonwealth
Insurance Co. v. Chase, 20 Pick. 142; Reynolds v. Ocean
Insurance Co., 22 Pick. 191 [S. C.23 Am. Dec. 727]; Sewall
v. United States Jnsurance Co., 11 Pick. 90; Peele v. Sufolk
Insurance Co., 7 Pick. 254 [S.C. 19 Am. Dec. 286]; Cort v.
-DelawareInsurance Co., 2 Wash. C. C. 375.
_r. . .
TVatson for defendant in error.
Vanvoorhis was with him on the brief.

ir. Isaac

MR. JUSTICE tIARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This writ of error brings up for review a judgment against
the Orient Mutual Insurance Company of New York upon a
policy whereby that company insured the defendants in error
in the sum of five thousand dollars, on the steamer Alice, of
the agreed valuation of $27,000, against perils "of the seas,
lakes, rivers, canals, fires, and jettisons that should come to
the damage of said vessel or any part thereof."
The policy provided, among other things, that the company
should be free from all claim for loss or damage "arising from
or caused by

.

.

.

barratry,

.

.

.

or occasioned by the

bursting of boilers, the collapsing of flues, explosion of gunpowder, the derangement or breaking the engine or machinery,

ORIENT INSURANCE CO. v. ADAMS.
Opinion of the Court.

or any consequence resulting therefrom, unless the same be
caused by unavoidable external violence;" that there should
be "no abandonment as for a total loss on account of said
vessel grounding or being otherwise detained, or in consequence of any loss or damage, unless the injury sustained be
equivalent to fifty per centum of the agreed value in this
policy; that the aforesaid vessel is, and shall be at all times
during the continuance of this policy, tight and sound, sufficiently found in tackle and appurtenance thereto, competently
provided with masters, officers, and crew, and in all things
and means for the safe employment thereof;" and that "in
no case whatever shall the assured have the right to abandon
until it shall be ascertained that the recovery and repairs of
said vessel are impracticable, nor sell the wreck, or any portion thereof, without the consent of the company."
The insured sued as for a total loss arising from one of the
perils specified in the policy.
The company pleaded non a&9umpsit and payment, with
leave to give in evidence the matters set forth in its affidavit
of defence, which was adopted as a special plea. Those
matters will sufficiently appear from the facts which will now
be stated.
According to the bill of exceptions, there was evidence in
behalf of the plaintiffs tending to show that, without wilfuflness or design on the part of her captain, the vessel was
carried, April 28, 1880- before the expiration of the policyover the falls of the Ohio River, at Louisville, Kentucky, and
sunk, receiving damage in a sum equal to fifty per centum of
her agreed value; and that on the 18th of May, 1880, it being
apparently impracticable to float her off and repair her, the
vessel was abandoned to the insurers as a total loss, and the
sum due under the policy demanded.
The evidence introduced by the company tended to establish these facts: The master of the Alice was C. F. Adams,
one of the assured, and a son of the other plaintiff. Before
the sailing of the vessel he had the reputation of being a
"drinking" man, and of that fact his father was informed.
On her arrival at Louisville, on the morning of April 28, 1880,

OCTOBER TERI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

the master gave the usual signal (which was transmitted to
the engineer) that he had no present need of the engines. The
joint of the mud valve was out of order, threatening damage
to the freight, and making repairs necessary. The steam was
thereupon blown off in order to make repairs. The captain,
coming on board, saw that repairs were going on, and knew
that the mud valve connected with the boiler needed repairs.
The work of repairing made it necessary to blow off steam.
The captain subsequently went on deck, and, without making
inquiry of the engineer as to the condition of the steam or
receiving any notice fron him that steam was ready, tapped
as a signal to let go the boat. At
his bell at about 8.30 A.MN.
that time there was not sufficient steam to propel the vessel.
It is the custom of the river for the master, before giving the
order to let go, to inquire of the engineer as to the condition
of the steam, and await his reply that the steam is ready
before giving the order to let go. At the time of the accident
the vessel was in a position to be carried over the falls, if she
was let go without steam on. Upon being let go she was
carried by the current down the river and over the falls, and,
striking a pier, was badly damaged; in consequence of which
she sunk soon thereafter below the bridge in about eighteen
feet of water.
There was, also, evidence in behalf of the company, tending
to show that the vessel was but slightly injured, and, in the
spring of 1881, was floated and removed from the place at
which she sunk, and put in the condition in which she was before sinking, for a sum little less than $6000; that when she
was raised, the plaintiffs refused to pay the expense thereof;
that- after May 18, 1880, the plaintiffs sold her furniture and
apparel without the company's consent, and that on or about
the 28th of April, 1880, they put her into the possession of the
Cincinnati Underwriters' Wrecking Company, which thereafter
had the right of possession until the vessel was seized by the
United States marshal under process, in December, 1880, upon
maritime liens.
To further maintain the issues on its behalf the defendant
-- the bill of exceptions states -produced in evidence an ex-

ORIENT INSURANCE CO. v. ADAMS.
Opinion of the Court.

emplification of the record of a certain cause, entitled "Cincinnati Underwriters' Company against The Steamer Alice,"
&c., in the United States District Court for the District of
Kentucky, as tending to show that after the 18th. Ma, 1880,
the claimants, by the answers and petitions in that suit, claimed
to be the owners of the vessel, her furniture, and apparel; that
the Alice was subject to maritime liens, in a considerable sum,
existing on the 18th of May, 1880 ; that she was sold under a
decree tQ satisfy the same, the plaintiffs receiving a part of the
proceeds of sale ; that the plaintiffs admitted that she was
slightly damaged, and they had refused, after she was raised,
to pay the expense of raising her.
Thereupon the plaintiffs offered evidence tending to show
that "it was the custom of the river that the engineer should
give notice to the captain before exhausting steam, and that it
was not the custom for the captain to have notice from the
engineer that steam was ready before giving the order to let
gro.")

The plaintiffs, in further reply, offered to prove by the plaintiff, C. F. Adams, "that the steamer, at the time of loss, was
insured in seven companies for a total insurance of eighteen
thousand dollars, and, after the notice of abandonment, six of
them, representing an insurance of $13,000.00, settled with the
insured, and, as part of the settlement, released to the latter
all interest in the steamer as she lay; that, after the marshal's
sale of the boat, the plaintiffs claimed to own the r}l of the
proceeds of sale, and that when the claim for the entire
proceeds was made it was as to form, under the advice of counsel ; but the plaintiffs did not intend thereby to waive the abandonment theretofore made, or to keep, as against the Orient
Insurance Company, the -f of the proceeds of sale." This
was offered as bearing upon the question of waiver of abandonment of the Alice; to which offer the defendant objected; but
the objection was overruled and the testimony of the witness
admitted. The defendant excepted to the overruling of the
objection and to the admission of the testimony.
The first assignment of error relates to the instructions upon
the general question whether the insured, by anything done or

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

omitted to be done, had defeated their right to recover on the
policy. The court, at the request of the plaintiffs, and against
the objections of the company, instructed the jury that "where
a loss under a policy of insurance, such as the one in suit, happens from the perils of the river, it is not a defence to the
insurance company that the remote cause of loss was the negligence of the insured or his agents;" and that "the mere
fault or negligence of the captain of the vessel by which the
Alice was drifted into the current and drawn over the falls,
will not constitute a defence for the company, unless the jury
should be satisfied that the captain acted fraudulently or wilfully, with design in so doing." The theory of the defence was
disclosed by the request to instruct the jury that if they "are
satisfied from the evidence that the accident and loss was
caused by the misconduct of Captain Charles F. Adams, that
then the plaintiff cannot recover." This request was denied,
but the court said to the jury: "This is true if the jury is satisfied that the conduct of the captain is properly characterized.
If he designedly or recklessly exposed the vessel to the dangers
of navigation at the falls, knowing that she was not in a condition to encounter them, he was guilty of misconduct such as
would relieve the defendant from liability; but if the proximate cause of the loss was the stranding of the vessel, this was
covered by the policy, and the defendant is not relieved from
liability by showing that the loss was remotely ascribable to
the negligence of the captain or the other officers or employes."
We do not perceive anything in these instructions of which
the insurance company can rightfully complain. The court
proceeded upon the ground that, if the efficient and, therefore,
proximate cause of the loss was a peril of the river, the company could not escape liability by showing that the loss was
remotely caused by mere negligence in not ascertaining, before
giring the signal to let the vessel go, that she had steam enough
for her proper management. The court committed no error
in so ruling.. In Colunbia Ins. Co. v. Lawrence, 10 Pet. 507,
518, which was a case of insurance against fire on land, the
court said that "a loss by fire, occasioned by the mere fault

ORIENT INSURANCE CO. v. ADAMS.

Opinion of the Court.

or hegligence of the assured, or his servants or agents, and
without fraud or design, is a loss within the policy, upon the
general ground that the fire is the proximate cause of the loss,
and also upon the ground that the express exceptions in policies
against fire leave this within the scope of the general terms of
such policies." In the subsequent case of Waters v. _ierchants
Louisville Ins. 6o., 11 Pet. 213, 224, it was said in reference
to the case of Oolumbia ins. Co. v. Lawrence, that "the court
then thought that in marine policies, whether containing the
risk of barratry or not, a loss whose proximate cause was a
peril insured against, is within the protection of the policy;
notwithstanding it might have been occasioned remotely by
the negligence of the master and mariners." To the same
effect are Patapsco As. Co. v. Coulter, 3 Pet, 222, 237; General .ftt. Ins. Co. v. S7terwood, 14: fow. 352; and PAwenix
Ins. Co. v. Erie Translortation Co., 117 U. S. 312, 325.
But it is insisted that the court should have granted the
request of the company to the effect that it was not liable if
the accident and loss were caused by the "misconduct" of the
master. Had that request been granted, in the form asked,
the jury might have supposed that the company was relieved
from liability if the master was chargeable with what is sometimes described as gross negligence as distinguished from simple negligence. Hence the court properly said, in effect, that
the misconduct of the master, unless affected by fraud or design,
would not defeat a recovery on the policy. The principle upon
which the court below acted was that expressed by Chief
Justice Gibson in American Ins. Co. v. Insly, 7 Penn. St. 223.
230, when he said that "public policy requires no more than
that a man be not suffered to insure against his own knavery,
which is not to be protected or encouraged by any means; for
though the maxim iespondeat superior is applicable to the
responsibility of a master for the acts of his servants, yet the
insured, so long as he acts with fidelity, is answerable neither
WRillams v. Suffolk A.
for his servants nor for himself."
Co., 3 Sumner, 270, 276.
The next assignment of error is that the court erred in ruling that the loss was not within the express exceptions of the

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

policy. The specification, under this assigmnent, is that the
loss was the consequence of the derangement of the mud valve,
and, therefore, within the exception that the company should
be free of all claim for loss or damage occasioned by "the
derangement or breaking of the engine or machinery, or any
consequence resulting therefrom." The "consequence" here
referred to is an immediate or proximate, not a remote consequence. Even if the mud valve is a part of the machinery of
the vessel, within the meaning of the policy, its derangement
cannot be said to have been the proximate cause of the loss.
So far as the bills of exception show, the repairs of the mud
valve had been completed before the order was given to let
the vessel go.
It is also contended that the court erred in its instructions
as to the abandonment of the vessel by the plaintiffs. The
court told the jury, in substance, that the assured were entitled
to abandon the vessel, if, on May i8,1880, it was impracticable to recover and repair it, and if the damage from the perils
of the river amounted to fifty per cent of the agreed value;
that the right to abandon was to be determined from the facts
as they existed on that day; that if the right then existed,
and the plaintiffs availed themselves of it, the subsequent
floating off of the vessel in the winter or spring of 1881 would
not change the result; and that, in determining whether the
injuries to the vessel from the perils of the river were to the
extent of fifty per cent of her agreed value, the jury should
take into consideration the "place where the Alice lay, and
the uncertainty as to when (if at all) a rise would come to
float her off, and all other circumstances in the case."
The argument in behalf of the company is that these instructions disregarded the express terms of the contract between
the parties; that while the rule laid down by the court made the
probability of the stipulated loss, at the time of abandonment,
the test of the right to abandon, the policy made the actual
existence of the stipulated proportion of loss the ground of
the exercise of that right. We do not think the court mistook the meaning of the contract or erroneously instructed
the jury. The jury were distinctly told that the right to

ORIENT INSURANCE CO. v. ADAMS.
Opinion of the Court.

abandon depended upon the fact that it was impracticable to
recover and repair the vessel. But how were the jury to determine the existence of that fact? The contract provided as a
condition precedent to the right to abandon that it be "ascertained that the recovery and repairs of said vessel are impracticable." But in what mode ascertained? How was the insured
to determine whether the recovery and repair of the vessel
were impracticable at the time of abandonment? Why, manifestly,, as the jury were told, by taking into consideration
where the vessel.lay, the uncertainty as to when (if at all) a
rise would come to float her off, and all the other attendant
circumstances. While the damage must at the time have been
equivalent to fifty per cent of the agreed value, and while the
fact that the repairs subsequently made amounted to only
$6000 tended to show that the actual damage was not so
great as claimed, that fact is not decisive of "he rigllt to
abandon. For, as said in Bradlie v. -Maryland Ivs. Co., 12
Pet. 378, 397, "If the abandonment ivhen made is good, the
rights of the parties are definitively fixed; and do not become
changed by any subsequent events. If, on the other hand, the
abandonment when made is not good, subsequent circumstances will not affect it, so as, retroactively, to impart to it a
validity which it had not at its origin." Rhinelander v. Ins.
Co., 4 Cranch. 29; Ilars/hall v. Delaware Ins. Co., 4 Cranch,
202..
Again: "In many cases of stranding, the state of the vessel
at the time may be such, from the imminency of the peril,
and the apparent extent of expenditures required to deliver her
from it, as to justify an abandonment; although, by some fortunate occurrence, she may be delivered from her peril, without
an actual expenditure of one-half of her value after she is in
safety. Under such circumstances, if, in all human probability, the expenditures which must be incurred to deliver her
from her peril, axe, at the time, so far as any reasonable calculations can be made, in the highest degree of probability,
beyond half value; and if her distress and peril be such as
would induce a considerate owner, uninsured, and upon the
spot, to withhold any attempt to get the vessel off; because of

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Syllabus.

such apparently great expenditures, the abandonment would
doubtless be good." 12 Pet. 398.
In the same case the court quote with approval the following
language of Kent:
"The right of abandonment does not depend upon the certainty, but on the high probability of a total loss, either of the
property or of the voyage, or both. The insured is to act, not
upon certainties, but upon probabilities, and if the facts present a case of extreme hazard and of probable expense, exceeding half the value of the ship, the insured may abandon;
though it should happen that she was afterwards recovered at
a less expense." 3 Kent 0cm. 321.
In -this connection- it is assigned for error that the court
erred in ruling that the fact of the actual repair of the vessel
for less than fifty per centum of her agreed value was not
evidence relevant to the issue as to the amount of damage
done to the Alice. This statement as to the ruling of the
court. is scarcely accurate. The court refused, and properly,
to tell the jury that.the fact that the vessel was recovered
and repaired was "the best evidence" that it was practicable
to recover and repair it. That fact, however, went to the jury
as evidence, and they were at .liberty, under -the instructions,
to give it due weight in connection with all the other circumstances, in determining whether the recovery and repair of
the vessel were, within the principles announced in other
instructions, impracticable at the time of the abandonment.
Upon the whole case we ate of opinion that no error of law
was committed to the prejudice of the company, and the
judgment is
.Affirmed.

TUFTS v. TUFTS.
APPEAL FROM TEE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
Submitted October 21,1887.-:Decided October 31, 1887.

'In this suit the facts found are not materially and substantially different
from those alleged in the bill, and they will support a decree for the
relief asked for.

