FINN v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

but if, as such purchasers, they thereby became bound to pay
all the debts and perform all the obligations of the corporation
whose property they bought, it would put an end to purchases of railroads. The plaintiff provided his own remedy for
what has happened by the condition in his conveyance, that the
land should revert to him, his heirs or assigns, in the event of
which he now complains.
As regards the sum to which he would be entitled for the
taking of the lots or parts of them where the railroad now
runs by the defendant company, the law has provided him
with the remedy, which is still in the hands of the court in
the proceedings for condemnation. If the money paid into
court is insufficient, he is probably entitled to a further trial
by jury. If it is a sufficient compensation, the money awaits
him when he is ready to accept it.
The bill makes no case for the interposition of a court of
equity, and the decree of the court dismissing it is therefore
Affinmd.

FINN v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF OLAIMS.
Submitted October 17, 1887. -Decided

October 31,1887.

It is a condition or qualification of the right to a judgment against the
United States in the Court of Claims, that the claimant, when not laboring under one of the disabilities named in the statute, voluntarily put his
claim in suit, or present it at the proper department for settlement,
within six years after suit could be commenceh thereon against the United
States.
The general rule thAt limitation does not operate by its own force as a bar,
but is a defence which must be set up, to be availed of, does not apply
to suits in the Court of Claims against the United States; and it is the
duty of that court to dismiss the petition of its own motion, when it appears that the claim is barred, although the statute may not have been
pleaded.

TFm following is the case, as stated by the court.
The plaintiff seeks judgment in this case against the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

States for the sum of $15,678 as the value of certaini horses
and nmules which he claims to have purchased for, and delivered to, the United States, at their special instance and request,
on or about October 14, 1863. He also asks interest from that
date, on said sum, at the rate of six per cent per annum, until
his demand is paid. The claim was never presented to any
executive department of the Government until July 3, 1874, on
which day it was filed in the office of the Quartermaster General. That officer decided adversely to it, and transmitted it
to the accounting officers of the Treasury. It was disallowed
by the Third Auditor of the Treasury, June 14, 1879, and in
that ruling the Second Comptroller concurred. ]But on the
20th of July, 1886, the Second Comptroller ordered the case to
be opened for newly discovered evidence produced by the
claimant; and, on the 13th of August, 1886, the claim, with
all the vouchers, papers, proofs, and documents pertaining
thereto, was transmitted by the Secretary of the Treasury to
the Court of Claims, under § 1063 of the Revised Statutes. The
petition in the present suit was filed in that court on the 13th
of October, 1886; and, after a hearing upon the merits, it was
dismissed.
The Government contends here that the judgment should be
affirmed, because it appears that the claim was not put in suit
by the voluntary action of the claimant, within six years after
it first accrued, nor presented at the proper department within
six years after suit could have been commenced thereon in the
Court of Claims.
The act of February 24, 1855, establishing the Court of
Claims, invested it with authority to "hear and determine all
claims founded upon any law of Congress, or upon any regulation of an executive department, or upon any contract, express
or implied, with the Government of the United States, which
may be suggested to it by a petition filed therein; and also all
claims which may be referred to said court by either house of
Congress." 10 Stat. 612, § 1. This act did not authorize judgment to be entered against the United States, nor fix a period
within which parties must assert their claims against the Government. The court was, however, required to report to Con-

FINN v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

gress the cases upon which it acted, stating the material facts
established by the evidence, with its opinion thereon. § 7.
But the act of March 3, 1863, 12 Stat. 765, enlarged the jurisdiction of the court, and, among other things, provided for
an appeal from its final judgment, in certain cases, to this
court, and "that in all cases of final judgments by said court,
or on appeal by the said Supreme Court, where the sa, e shall
be affirmed in favor of the claimant, the sum due thel -byshall
be paid out of any general appropriation made by law for the
payment and satisfaction of private claims, on presentation to
the Secretary of the Treasury of a copy of said judgment,"
&c. The 10th section of that act is in these words: "Sec. 10.
That every claim against the United States, cognizable by the
Court of Claims, shall be forever barred, unless the petition setting forth a statement of the claim be filed in the court, or
transmitted to -itunder the provisions of this act, within six
years after the claim first accrues: Provided, That claims
which have accrued six years before the passage of this act
shall not be barred if the petition be filed in the court, or
transmitted as aforesaid, within three years after th6 passage
of this act: And providedfurther, That the claims of married
women first accrued during marriage, of persons under the age
of twenty-oue years first accruing during minority, and of
idiots, lunatics, insane persons, and persons beyond seas at the
time the claim accrued, entitled to the claim, shall not be
barred if the petition be filed in the court, or transmitted, as
aforesaid, within three years after the disability has ceased;
but no other disability than those enumerated shall prevent
any claim from being barred, nor shall any of the said disabilities operate cumulatively." Rev. Stat. § 1069.
By an act of Congress, approved June 25, 1868, 15 Stat. 75,
76, it was made lawful "for the head of any executive department, whenever any claim is made upon said department involving disputed facts or controverted questions of law, where
the amount in controversy exceeds three thousand dollars, or
where the decision will affect a class of cases or furnish a
precedent for the future action of any executive department
in the adjustment of a class of cases, without regard to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Counsel for Parties.

amount involved in the particular case, or when any authority,
right, privilege, or exemption is claimed or denied under the
Constitution of the United States, to cause such claim, with
all the vouchers, papers, proofs, and documents pertaining
thereto, to be transmitted to the Court of Claims, and the
same shall be there proceeded in as if originally commenced
by the voluntary action of the claimant. And the Secretary
of the Treasury may, upon the certificate of any auditor or
comptroller of the Treasury, direct any account, matter, or
claim of the character, amount, or class described or limited
in this section to be transmitted, with all the vouchers, papers,
documents, and proofs pertaining thereto, to the said Court of
Claims, for trial and adjudication: P'ovided, however, That
no case shall be referred by any head of a departmenf unless
it belongs to one of the several classes of cases to which, by
reason of the subject-matter and character, the said Court of
Claims might, under existing laws, take jurisdiction, on such
voluntary action of the claimant. And all the cases mentioned in this section, which shall be transmitted by the head
of any executive department, or upon the certificate of any
auditor or comptroller, shall be proceeded in as other cases
pending in said court, and shall, in all respects, be subject to
the same rules and regulations; and appeals from the final
judgments or decrees of said court therein to the Supreme
Court of the United States, shall be allowed in the manner
now provided by law. The amount of the final judgments or
decrees in such cases so transmitted to said court, where rendered in favor of the claimants, shall in all cases be paid out
of any specific appropriation applicable to the same, if any
such there be; and where no such appropriation exists, the
same shall be paid in the same manner as other judgments of
said court." Rev. Stat. §§ 1063, 1064, 1065.
All these statutory provisions are carried, with but slight
change of words, into c. 21 of Title 13 of the Revised Statutes.
Mr.. zomas C.Fletcher for appellant.
Mr. Solioitor General and .M'. Heber J. Maky for appellee.

FINN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE HERLAx

delivered the opinion of the court.

In United States v. Ligpitt, 100 U. S. 663, 668, b69, it was
held tha- " limitation is not pleadable in the Court of Claims
against a claim cognizable therein, and which has been referred .y the head of an executive department for its judicial
determination, provided such claim was presented for settleinent at the proper department within six years after it first
accrued; that is, within six years after suit could. be commenced thereon against the Government. Where the claim
is of such a character that it may be allowed and settled by
an executive department, or may, in the discretion of the
head of such department, be referred to the Court of Claims
for final determination, the filing of the petition should relate
back to the date when it was first presented at the department for allowance and settlement. In'such cases the statement of the facts upon which the claim rests, in the form of a
petition, is only another mode of asserting the same demand
which had previously, and in due time, been presented at the
proper department for settlement." "These views," the court
said, "find support in the fact that .the act of -1868 describes
claims presented at an executive department for settlement,
and which belong to the classes specified in its seventh section
as cases which may be transmitted to the Court of Claims.
'And all the cases mentioned in this section, which shall be
transmitted by the head of an executive department or upon
the certificate of any auditor or comptroller, shall be proceeded
in as other cases pending in said court, and shall, in all respects,
be subject to the same rules and regulations,' with right of
appeal. The cases thus transmitted for judicial determination
are, in the sense of the act, commenced against the Government when the claim is originally presented at the departmenit for examination and settlement. Upon their transfer to
the Court of Claims, they are to be 'proceeded in as other
cases pending in said court."' See, also, -Ford v. United
States, 116 U. S. 213; United States v. .lfeDougalls Admi strator,121 U. S. 89.
We are of opinion that the claim here in suit -although

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

by reason of its character "cognizable by the Court of Claims"
-cannot properly be made the basis of a judgment in that
court. As the United States are not liable to be sued, except
with their consent, it was competent for Congress to limit
their liability, in that respect, to specified causes of action,
brought within a prescribed period. Nichols v. United States,
7 Wall. 122, 126. It appears from the finding of facts that
more than ten years had expired after the claim first accrued
before it was presented to the proper department for settlement; and more than six years after the passage of the act of
1868, Rev. Stat. § 1063, 1064, which authorized the head of
an executive department to transmit to the Court of Claims,
for adjudication, any claim which involved disputed facts or
controverted questions of, law, or the decision of which would
affect a class of cases, or furnish a precedent for future action.
Consequently, in any view, this claim belonged to the class
which, under the express words of the act of 1863, Rev. Stat.
§ 1069, were "forever barred," so far, at least, as the claimant
had the right to a judgment in that court against the United
States. The duty of the court, under such circumstances,
whether limitation was pleaded or not, was to dismiss the
petition; for the statute, in our opinion, makes it a condition
or qualification of the right to a judgment against the United
States that- except where the claimant labors under some
one of the disabilities specifled in the statute- the claim must
be put in suit by the voluntary action of the claimant, or .be
presented to the proper department for settlement, within six
years after suit could be commenced thereon against the Government. Under the appellant's theory of the case, the Second
Comptroller could open the case twenty years hence, and,
upon the claim being transmitted by the Secretary of the
Treasury to the Court of Claims, that court could give judgment upon it against the United States. We do not assent to
any such interpretation of the statutes defining the powers of
that court.
The general rule that limitation does not operate by its own
force as a bar, but is a defence, and that the party making
such a defence must plead the statute if he wishes the benefit

RICHTER v. JEROME.
Syllabus.

of its provisions, has no application to suits in the Court of
Claims against the United States. An individual, may waive
such a defence, either expressly or by failing to plead the
statute; but the Government has not expressly or by implication conferred authority upon any of its officers to waive
the limitation imposed by statute upon suits against the United
States in the Court of Claims. Since the Government is not
liable to be sued, as of right, by any claimant, and since it
has assented to a judgment being rendered against it only in
certain classes of cases, brought within a prescribed period
after the cause of action accrued, a judgment in the Court of
Claims for the amount of a claim which the record or evidence
shows to be barred by the statute, would be erroneous.
The judgment is
-Affirmed.

RICHTER v. JEROME.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
Argued October 20, 18ST.- Decided November 7,1887.
If the trustee in a deed of trust in the nature of a mortgage acts In good
faith in foreclosing it, and obtains a decree of foreclosure and sale,
whatever binds the trustee in the proceedings which are begun and carried on to enforce the trust, binds the cestuis que trust as if they were
actual parties to the suit.
If, in a suit in equity by the trustee in a deed of trust in the nature of a
mortgage to foreclose the mortgage the decree or the sale is obtained in
fraud of the rights of the cestuis que trust, their remedy is a direct proceeding to set aside the sale or the decree and proceed anew with another
foreplosure; and not an attempt to reforeclose what had been fully foreclosed before, under a decree which remains in force.
On the facts alleged in the complainant's bill and set forth in the opinion
of the court: Held, that the complainant is not entitled to the relief
prayed for in his bill, and that the decree of foreclosure obtained by the
corporation trustee, under the mortgage of which he is a cestui que trust,
binds him.

