OCTOBER TERM1, 1887.
Syllabus.

v. Baker, 17 Wall. 144, only as "an authoritative exposition"
of the views of the court on a question which "was argued
fully by parties deeply interested on both sides" and which
"received attentive consideration," and was, therefore, "entitled to the same weight as other well-considered cases." The
judgment can be referred to by the parties to this suit as a
precedent, but not as an estoppel.
We have not overlooked the fact that a brief was filed at
the hearing in this court on behalf of the Railroad Company
to support the claim of Wolcott that the title of that company
was the best. Such a proceeding did not make the Railroad
Company a party to the suit, or bind it by the decree. Being
interested in the question to be decided, the company was
anxious to secure a judgment that could not be used as a
precedent against its own claims in any litigation that might
thereafter arise in respect to its own property. It is not an
uncoimnon thing in this court to allow briefs to .be presented
by or on behalf of persons who are not parties to the suit, but
who are interested in the questions to be decided, and it has
never been supposed that the judgment in such a case would
estop the intervenor in a suit of his own which presented the
same questions. It could be used as a precedent, but not as
an estoppel in the second suit.
We find no error in the decisions of the Supreme Court of
Iowa upon any of the Federal questions involved in these
cases, and each of the judgments is consequently

-A~fflred.

CHAPMAN v. GOODNOW'S ADMINISTRATOR.
STRYKER v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF IOWA.
Argued November 1, 1887. - Decided December 5, 1887.

While the judgment of this court in Wolcott v. Des Mioines Company, 5
Wall. 681, may be referred to by parties as a judicial precedent, it is not

C

CHAPMAN v. GOODNOW.

541

Opinion of the Court.
an estoppel as against the defendant in error. Stryker v. Goodnow, ante,
527, affirmed to this point.
The Supreme Court of Iowa having given full effect to the case of Zomestead
Comipany v. Valley Railroad,17 Wall 153, as a bar to the recovery in this
suit as it stood originally, but having held that a new cause of action had
arisen out of acts of the plaintiffs in error, which were equivalent to an
election by them to treat the payments of taxes made by the Homestead
Company as payments by themselves, and which implied a new promise
of reimbursement for the advancement made; and it appearing that that
was the real ground for the decision of the Supreme Court of Iowa, and
that it was not used to give color to a refusal to allow the bar of the decree in Homestead Company v. Valley Railroad, no Federal question on

that point is raised by the record.
If a Federal question is fairly presented by the record, and its decision is
necessary to the determination of the case, a judgment which rejects the
claim, bu avoids all reference- to it, is as much against the right, within
the meaning of Rev. Stat. ยง 709, as if it had been specifically referred to,
and the right directly refused: but if a decision of such a question is
rendered unnecessary by the view which the court properly takes of the
rest of the case, within the scope of the pleadings, the judgment is not
open to review here.

THESE were suits to recover taxes under circumstances in the
main similar to those set forth in Stryker v. Goodnow, ante,
527. The cause was argued with Stryk'er v. Goodnow. The
case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Xr'. C. H. Gatch,for plaintiff in error. Kr'. lFilliam Connor
was with him on the brief.
r . George Crane for defendant in error.
31n. CHIEF JUsTirn, WArrE delivered the opinion of the court.
These are writs of error for the review of two judgments of
the Supreme Court of Iowa - one against Richard B. Chapman,
and the other against John Stryker - in suits brought by
Edward K. Goodnow, assignee.of the Iowa Homestead Company, in his lifetime, to recover money paid by the IIomestead

Company for taxes levied by the county of Webster on "Des
Moines River lands" belonging to Chapman and Stryker,
respectively, for the years 1864 to 1871, both inclusive. For
a statement of the general facts on which the right of recovery

512

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

depends reference is made to the case of Sth-y7er v. Crane,
ante, 527. The Homestead Company assigned its claims
against these owhers after the decree in the suit of Homestead
(nompany
v. 7aZley Railroad,17 Wall. 153, was rendered.
The suits were begun August 5, 1876, and in each case a
demurrer was filed to the original petition January 19, 1877.
On the 12th of February, 1879, the county of Webster
appeared in each of the suits and fied a petition therein
setting forth "that the taxes mentioned in said petition [that
of Goodnow] were duly and legally assessed and levied by
said county upon the lands therein mentioned, at the times,
for the years and amounts, and in the manner and form
alleged and set forth in said petition, and that the said taxes
at .the times of the said several assessments became and were
and still are a valid and binding lien upon said lands in favor
of said county;" that Chapman and Stryker were the owners
in fee of the several tracts by them respectively claimed at the
times of the levies, "and in duty bound to pay said taxes to
said county;" that the said taxes had never been paid, and
the "whole thereof is still due to said county from the said
defendant." Each of these petitions concluded with a pr~.yer
for judgment against the defendant for the amount of the
taxes, and the enforcement of a lien on the lands for the
payment thereof.
On the 5th of April, 1879, Goodnow filed an amendment to
his original petition in each of the cases, in which he alleged
that when the Homestead Company paid the taxes to the
county "it was agreed and understood that if the iaid county
should receive or collect the said taxes of and from the said
defendant, the said county would repay the taxes so collected
to" the company; and "that said county would sue defendant
in its own name for the taxes mentioned in said petition, and
in case it should collect the same, would pay them to" the
company. And, further, he alleged "that if said defendant
refuses to pay said taxes to said county and claims that said
taxes have been paid to said county through or by means of
the plaintiff's assignor [the Homestead Company] having given
or delivered the same to the county, then the defendant is
bound to repay the same to plaintiff."

CHAPMAN v. GOODNOW.

1-543

Opinion of the ,Court.

The defendant in each case answered the original and
amended petition of Goodnow by .denying every allegation
therein-; setting up the .statute of limitations; and charging
that the Homestead Company "paid said taxes to said county
voluntarily, and without the request, knowledge, or consent
of the defendant, and with full knowledge of the facts and
circumstances upon which the defendant's title to said lands
was founded."
To the petition of the county the defendant in each case
filed an answer, and, in addition to the defences set up to the
petition of Goodnow, claimed that the county was not a party
to the suit and not entitled to relief. He also further said
"that all of said taxes mentioned in said petition were duly
paid by the Iowa Homestead Company as soon as the same
became due, and said defendant is no longer liable therefor."
Afterwards, on the 3d of June, 1881, each of the defendants
filed in his own case an amended answer, setting up the decree
in tile case of 7ormestead Company v. 'Valley Railroad,as a
bar to the action, and also insisting that the "question of title
and ownership of the lands

.

.

.

was distinctly decided

and det6rmiried" in the case of Wolcott v. Des .AMoines Company, 5 Wall. 681.
The Circuit Court of Webster County, in which the suit was
originally begun, gave judgment for the defendants, but on appeal to the Supreme Court of the State that judgment was reversed on the grounds stated in an opinion, which is as follows:
"I. The defendant pleaded as one of its additional defences
that the plaintiff's right of recovery is barred by a prior adjudication, to wit, an adjudication: in the case of Tie Iowa Homestead Company v. Tlie Des .foines .Aravigation and Railroad
Company, John Stryker, et al, reported in I7Wall. 153. To
this plea the plaintiff replies, in substance, that if it should be
conceded that the court made an adjudication in that case denying a right of recovery for the taxes in question in this case,
yet this action is not barred, because a right of recovery has
arisen since that time. The fact relied upon as giving such
right of recovery is, that the defendant now claims, as he did
not then, the benefit of the payments made by the Homestead

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

Company. After this action was instituted, a petition was
filed in the case by Webster County, averring, among other
things, that the taxes in question have fiever been paid by any
one, and that the same are now due to the county from, the
defendant. To this petition the defendant answered, averring
' that all of said taxes mentioned in said petition were duly
and said
.
paid by the Iowa Homestead Company,
defendant is no longer liable therefor.' The question presented
is as to whether, if the payments in the first instance were officious, .is we may assume was held, and the defendant for that
reason was not liable, the subsequent adoption of the payments
for the purpose of escaping liability to the county should be
regarded as an adoption of the payment as between the defendant and plaintiff.
"If the plaintiff's assignor had made the payments in the
name of the defendant as his assumed agent, any act of the
defendant indicating an intention to claim the benefit of the
payments would constitute a ratification of the acts by which
the payments were made. But the defendant contends that
the case is different where a person pays another person's debt,
not under a claim of action for such person, but under the mistaken supposition that the debt is due from himself. The defendant's position is that in such case there is no act of assumed
agency to ratify. It must be conceded, we think, that in one
sense this is so. The plaintiff's assignor did not hold himself
out as the defendant's agent; nevertheless, when the defendant
claims the benefit of the payments, he elects to treat the acts
of payment as done for himself. Having elected to so treat
the acts, he ought not to complain if the court treats them in
the sanme way. Yatural justice certainly requires that if the
defendant has the benefit of payments as discharging his liability to the county, he should reimburse the plaintiff, whose
assignor made the payments. If we were to take any other
view, it appears to us that we should attach more importance
to the form than the substance of things. We do not overlook
the fact that, under ordinary circumstances, every tax-payer
has the right, as between himself and third persons, to pay his
own taxes in his own way, and- to pay them to, the county to

CHAPMAN v. GOODNOW.
Opinion of the Court.

which they are due, and not be compelled to run after a selfsubstituted creditor and make payment to him. Where, therefore, such payment is made by a third person, the tax-payer
has a right to ignore the payment if he chooses to do so. But
if he chooses not to ignore, but to claim the benefit of it, we
see no reason why we may not regard him as treating the act
of payment as done .for him; and, if we do so regard him,
there is no difficulty in finding an implied promise to reimburse the payer or his assignee.
"We ought, perhaps, to say in this connection, that the doctrine has been announced that there can be no ratification of
an act not done avowedly for the principal. Story on Agency,
ยง 251; Felloios v. Commissioners, 36 Barb. 655. But the case
before us is peculiar. The act done was such that it necessarily
inured to the defendant's sole benefit. Besides, the circumstances under which the act was done should not be overlooked.
The defendant neglected the payment of the taxes, which was
a duty of public concern. He allowed the plaintiff's assignor,
under an honest claim of title to the land, to discharge this
duty for several years in succession. Now, while the plaintiff
is not allowed, by reason of the prior adjudication, to set up
these facts as alone sufficient to create a liability on the part
of the defendant, they may be considered, we think, in connection with the fact that the defendant has since claimed the
benefit of the payments as sufficient to render such claim of
benefit a ratification, if it otherwise would not be." Goodnow,,
v. Stryker, 61 Iowa, 261.
The cause was then remanded to the Circuit Court, where a
judgment was rendered, in accordance with the opinion of the
Supreme Court, against the defendant for the amount of the
taxes paid, without interest, but on a second appeal to the Supreme Court this judgment was modified so as to make it include interest, and a new judgment was entered in that court
accordingly. Upon that judgment the writ of error in the case
of Stryker was sued out.
In the case of Chapman a judgment was also rendered by
the Circuit Court in favor of the defendant, but on appeal to
the Supreme Court that judgment was reverped, on the same
VOL. Cxm-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

ground stated in the opinion in the case of Stryker, and a final
judgment was entered in that court for the amount of the
taxes paid and interest. Goodnow v. Ohapman;, 64 Iowa, 602.
For the review of that judgment the writ of error was sued
out in the case of Chapman.
In each of the cases the Supreme Court has certified that
upon the hearing the defendant claimed immunity from the
entire demand on account of the prior adjudication between
him and the assignor of Goodnow in the case of ]I'omestead
Company v. VFaly Railroad, which -vas denied, and also on
account of the judgment in the case of Iolcott-v. Des .Moines
Company, which was also denied.
These rulings are assigned for error here.
As to the effect of the judgnent in Wolcott v. Des foines
Cotpany on the rights of the parties to this suit, it is only
necessary to refer to what was said on that subject in the other
case of Stryker v. Crane [Goodow's Administrator], which
has just been decided. The cases are identical so far as this
question is concerned, and there was no error in the ruling of
the Supreme Court thereon.
As to.the decree in the case of Homestead Company 'v.FSd.
ley Railroad,the court held in effect that it was a bar to a
recovery on the cause of action as it stood originally and at
the time of the decree, but that since then a new cause of
action had arisen, because both Chapman and Stryker had
adopted the payments made by the Homestead Company as
payments made on their account, and from this the law implied
a promise to repay what had been paid for their use. The theory of the court seems to have been that Chapman and Stryker,
as owners of the land, were bound in law to the county for the
payment of the taxes notwithstanding what had been done by
the Homestead Company. When, therefore, the county sued
them for the taxes and they set up the payment by the company as a defence, they made the acts of the company their
own, and thus became obligated to repay what had been paid
for them.
Whether this was the true legal effect of what was done is
not a Federal question. All we have to consider i, whether

CHAPTNAN v. GOODNOW.
Opinion of the Court.

it was the real ground of decision, and not used to give color
only to a refusal to allow the bar of the decree. It cannot be
doubted that if Chapman and Stryker had, after the rendition
of the decree, got from the Homestead Company permission to
use its payments as a defence to the actions brought against
them for the taxes, and in consideration thereof had promised
to repay what had been advanced for that purpose, a new
cause of action would have arisen, to which the decree would
not have been a bar. That is in substance what the Supreme
Court held was done. The county sued Chapman and Stryker
for the Laxes which had been levied on their lands, assuming
that the payments made by the Homestead Company did not
discharge them from their liability as the true owners. To this
suit Goodnow, as the assigmee of the Homestead Company, was
a party, and in his pleadings he insisted that if they refused to
pay the county because his assignor had already made the payment, then they would be bound to him for the amount ad
vanced by the company for that purpose. Such being his claim'
on the record, Chapman and Stryker, each in his own suit, set
up as a defence "that all of said taxes . . . were duly
paid by said Iowa Homestead Company as soon as the same
became due, and said defendant was no longer liable therefor."
This the court held to be equivalent to an election by Chapman and Stryker to treat the payments by the company as
payments by themselves, and to imply a promise of reimbursement for the advances made. Whether this conclusion was
correct or not depends on the tax laws of the State and the
principles of general law applicable to such facts, and not on
the Constitution or laws or authority of the United States.
What was done was not affected by the decree because it was
done afterwards. It was in the opinion of the court a new
promise, as the money of the Homestead Company was in
effect used by the defendants themselves to meet their own
liabilities. The fact that the company gave the money to the
county for the taxes could not of itself. be made a ground of
at-tion against the defendants, because the court in the other
case, to which they and the company were parties, had decided
otherwise, and there had been at the time no election by them

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

to treat this act of the company as done for them. It was only
when this election was made that the liability arose, and as
that was after the decree, the new liability was not affected by
what had been adjudicated before. The court did not refuse
to give faith and credit to the decree, but it acted upon a new
cause of action with which the decree had no legal connection.
That decree is a bar to the cause of action upon which it was
based, but not to a different cause of action arising afterwards.
Neither can we consider whether the court below erred in
allowing the county to come in as a party to the suit, and in
giving judgment upon the new cause of -action which arose
after the original suit was begun. The question presented by
the new pleadings was a real question in the case, as adjudged
by the court, and the manner of getting, it in is no more the
subject of review here than the decision upon it afterwards.,
We are aware that a right or immunity set up or claimed
under the Constitution or laws of the United States may be
denied as well by evading a direct decision thereon as by positive action. Jf a Federal question is fairly presented by the
record, and its decision is actually necessary to the determination: of the case, a judgment which rejects the claim, but
avoids all reference to it, is as much against the right, within
the meaning of ยง '(09 of the Revised Statutes, as if it had been
specifically refeired to and the right directly refused. But if
a decision of such a question is rendered unnecessary by the
view which the court properly takes of the rest of the case,
within the scope of the pleadings, the judgment is not open to
review here. Chouteau v. Gibson, 111 U. S. 200; Adams Co. v.
Burlington & Afissouri Raibroad, 112 U. S.123, 127. Such,
in our opinion, were these cases, so far as the question arising
out of the prior adjudication in Homestead Co. v. Valley Rail'oad is concerned. The Federal question involved in that
decree lay behind the alleged new promise, and as the new
promise was sustained and a judgment given against the
defendants on that account, the effect of the decree did not
necessarily enter into the determination of the cause.
Inasmuch, therefore, as there is no Federal question presented

LITCHFIELD v. GOODNOW.
Opinion of the Court.

by this branch of the cases, and there was no error in the
decision of that involved in the other, the judgment of the
Supreme Court of Iowa in each of the cases is

LITCHFIELD v. GOODNOW'S ADMINISTRATOR.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
Argued November 1,1837.-Decided December 5,1887.

Stryker v. Goodnow, ante, 527, applied as to the effect of Wolcott v. Des Moines
Co., 5 Wall. 681.
The plaintiff in error's intestate was not a party to Homestead Company v.
Vialley Ratlroad,nor in privity with those who were parties, and was not
bound by the proceedings; and, as estoppels to be good must be mutual,
the Homestead Company and its assignees were not bound.

THIs was a suit to recover taxes paid under circumstances
which are set forth in Stryker v. Goodnow, ante, 527. The
cause was argued with Stryker v. Goodnow. The case is stated
in the opinion of the court.
2l&f. C. f. Gatek for plaintiff in error. .M. William Conr"
was with him on the brief.
.Af&. Gearge Crane for defendant in error.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE

WAITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This suit was brought by Edward K. Goodnow, assignee of
the Iowa Homestead Company, in his lifetime, against Grace
H. Litchfield, in her lifetime, to recover the amount of taxes
for the years 1864 to 1871, both inclusive, paid by the Homestead Company on certain tracts of Des Moines River lands
held and owned by her, by and through conveyances from the
Des Moines Navigation and Railroad Company. For a genera]
statement of the facts reference is made to Stryker v. Crane,
ante, 527. The taxes were paid-before the decree in Homestead

