OPINIONS OF INDIVIDUAL JUSTICES IN CHAMBERS FROM END OF OCTOBER TERM, 1968,
THROUGH JANUARY 30, 1970

ATLANTIC COAST LINE RAILROAD CO. v.
BROTHERHOOD OF LOCOMOTIVE

ENGINEERS

ET AL.

ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

Decided July 16, 1969
The Federal District Court enjoined the enforcement of a state court
injunction restraining union picketing in a railway labor dispute.
In view of the long-standing policy embodied in 28 U. S. C.
ยง 2283 that a federal court, with limited exceptions, may not
enjoin state court proceedings, and the difficult and important
question presented here, the District Court's injunction is stayed
pending disposition of a petition for certiorari to be expeditiously

filed in this Court.
Dennis G. Lyons, Frank X. Friedmann, Jr., David M.
Foster, John W. Weldon, and John S. Cox on the
application.
Allan Milledge and Richard L. Horn in opposition.
Circuit Justice.
This is an application presented to me by the railroad
to stay enforcement of an injunction issued by the
United States District Court for the Middle District of
Florida against the enforcement of a state court injunction restraining the union from picketing around the
Moncrief Yard in Florida, a classification yard owned
by the Seaboard Coast Line, the successor company
to the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad. The picketing
is being carried on because of a strike against the
Florida East Coast Railway by its employees; there is
MR. JusTicE BLACK,

1201

1202

OCTOBER TERM, 1969
Opinion in Chambers

396 U.S.

no dispute between the Seaboard Coast Line or the
Atlantic Coast Line and their employees. The union
wishes to picket the Moncrief Yard, however, because
many of the Florida East Coast cars are switched into
it in order to carry on that railroad's business.
At the last Term of this Court we had before us a
question involving the picketing of the Jacksonville
Terminal Company at Jacksonville, Florida, owned and
operated by the Florida East Coast, Seaboard, Atlantic
Coast Line, and Southern railroads. There an injunction was granted in the Florida state courts to restrain
the union from picketing the entire terminal. This
Court in a 4-to-3 opinion decided that the picketing
was protected by federal law and therefore could not
be enjoined by Florida. Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen v. Jacksonville Terminal Co., 394 U. S. 369 (1969).
The union here substantially relies on that case, insisting
that it has the same federally protected right to picket
at the Moncrief Yard that this Court held it could exercise at the Jacksonville Terminal. The District Court
here enjoined the railroad from utilizing a state court
injunction against picketing at Moncrief and refused the
railroad's request to stay the effectiveness of its injunction
pending appeal. The Court of Appeals, however, did
grant an application to suspend the effectiveness of the
District Court injunction for ten days, which expires
tomorrow-July 17. The question before me is whether
I should suspend the effectiveness of that injunction
pending a review of the District Court's judgment.
Since 1793 a congressional enactment, now found in
28 U. S. C. ยง 2283, has broadly provided that federal
courts cannot, with certain limited exceptions, enjoin
state court proceedings. Whether this long-standing
policy is violated by the District Court's injunction here
presents what appears to me to be a close, highly
complex, and difficult question. Not only does it present

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. ENGINEERS
1201

1203

Opinion in Chambers

a difficult problem but one of widespread importance,
the solution of which might broadly affect the economy
of the State of Florida, the United States, and interstate
commerce. Under these circumstances I do not feel
justified in permitting the District Court injunction to be
enforced, changing the status quo at Moncrief Yard,
until this Court can act for itself on the questions that
will be presented in the railroad's forthcoming petition
for certiorari. For this reason an order will be issued
staying the enforcement of the District Court injunction
pending disposition of the petition for certiorari in this
Court. To accomplish this result without undue delay
it will be the duty of the railroad to expedite all actions
necessary to present its petition for certiorari here.

