1218

OCTOBER TERM, 1969
Opinion in Chambers

396 U. S.

ALEXANDER ET AL. V. HOLMES COUNTY
BOARD OF EDUCATION ET AL.
ON APPLICATION TO VACATE SUSPENSION

OF ORDER

Decided September 5, 1969
On July 3, 1969, the Court of Appeals entered an order requiring
the submission of new plans to be effective this fall to accelerate
desegregation in 33 Mississippi school districts. On August 28,
on motion of the Department of Justice, that court suspended
the July 3 order and postponed the date for submission of new
plans to December 1, 1969. The application to vacate the suspension of the July 3 order is denied. Although MR. JUSTICE
BLAcK believes that the "all deliberate speed" standard is no
longer relevant and that unitary school systems should be instituted without further delay, he recognizes that in certain respects
his views go beyond anything the Court has held, and he reluctantly
upholds the lower court's order.
See: 417 F. 2d 852.

Jack Greenberg, James M. Nabrit III, and Norman C.
Amaker on the application.
William A. Allain, Assistant Attorney General of
Mississippi, and John C. Satterfield in opposition.
Solicitor General Griswold filed a memorandum for
the United States.
Circuit Justice.
For a great many years Mississippi has had in effect
what is called a dual system of public schools, one system
for white students only and one system for Negro
students only. On July 3, 1969, the Court of Appeals for
the Fifth Circuit entered an order requiring the submisMR. JUSTICE BLACK,

sion of new plans to be put into effect this fall to accelerate desegregation in 33 Mississippi school districts. On
August 28, upon the motion of the Department of
Justice and the recommendation of the Secretary of

ALEXANDER v. BOARD OF EDUCATION
1218

1219

Opinion in Chambers

Health, Education, and Welfare, the Court of Appeals
suspended the July 3 order and postponed the date for
submission of the new plans until December 1, 1969.
I have been asked by Negro plaintiffs in 14 of these
school districts to vacate the suspension of the July 3
order. Largely for the reasons set forth below, I feel
constrained to deny that relief.
In Brown v. Board of Education, 347 U. S. 483 (1954),
and Brown v. Board of Education, 349 U. S. 294 (1955),
we held that state-imposed segregation of students
according to race denied Negro students the equal protection of the laws guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment. Brown I was decided 15 years ago, but in
Mississippi as well as in some other States the decision
has not been completely enforced, and there are many
schools in those States that are still either "white"
or "Negro" schools and many that are still all-white or
all-Negro. This has resulted in large part from the fact
that in Brown II the Court declared that this unconstitutional denial of equal protection should be remedied,
not immediately, but only "with all deliberate speed."
Federal courts have ever since struggled with the phrase
"all deliberate speed." Unfortunately this struggle has
not eliminated dual school systems, and I am of the
opinion that so long as that phrase is a relevant factor
they will never be eliminated. "All deliberate speed"
has turned out to be only a soft euphemism for delay.
In 1964 we had before us the case of Grifin v. School
Board, 377 U. S. 218, and we said the following:
"The time for mere 'deliberate speed' has run out,
and that phrase can no longer justify denying these
Prince Edward County school children their constitutional rights to an education equal to that afforded
by the public schools in the other parts of Virginia."
Id., at 234.

1220

OCTOBER TERM, 1969
Opinion in Chambers

396 U. S.

That sentence means to me that there is no longer any
excuse for permitting the "all deliberate speed" phrase
to delay the time when Negro children and white children
will sit together and learn together in the same public
schools. Four years later-14 years after Brown /-this
Court decided the case of Green v. County School Board
of New Kent County, 391 U. S. 430 (1968). In that
case MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN, speaking for a unanimous
Court, said:
"'The time for mere "deliberate speed" has run
out .

.

. .'

The burden on a school board today is

to come forward with a plan that promises realistically to work, and promises realistically to work
now." Id., at 438-439.
"The Board must be required to formulate a new
plan . . . which promise[s] realistically to convert
promptly to a system without a 'white' school and
a 'Negro' school, but just schools." Id., at 442.
These cases, along with others, are the foundation of
my belief that there is no longer the slightest excuse,
reason, or justification for further postponement of the
time when every public school system in the United
States will be a unitary one, receiving and teaching
students without discrimination on the basis of their
race or color. In my opinion the phrase "with all
deliberate speed" should no longer have any relevancy
whatsoever in enforcing the constitutional rights of Negro
students. The Fifth Circuit found that the Negro
students in these school districts are being denied equal
protection of the laws, and in my view they are entitled
to have their constitutional rights vindicated now without postponement for any reason.
Although the foregoing indicates my belief as to what
should ultimately be done in this case, when an indi-

ALEXANDER v. BOARD OF EDUCATION
1218

1221

Opinion in Chambers

vidual Justice is asked to grant special relief, such as
a stay, he must consider in light of past decisions and
other factors what action the entire Court might possibly
take. I recognize that, in certain respects, my views
as stated above go beyond anything this Court has
expressly held to date. Although Green reiterated
that the time for all deliberate speed had passed, there
is language in that opinion which might be interpreted
as approving a "transition period" during which federal
courts would continue to supervise the passage of the
Southern schools from dual to unitary systems.* Although I feel there is a strong possibility that the full
Court would agree with my views, I cannot say definitely
that it would, and therefore I am compelled to consider the factors relied upon in the courts below for
postponing the effective date of the original desegregation
order.
On August 21 the Department of Justice requested
the Court of Appeals to delay its original desegregation timetable, and the case was sent to the District Court
for hearings on the Government's motion. At those
*"The obligation of the district courts, as it always has been, is to
assess the effectiveness of a proposed plan in achieving desegregation.
There is no universal answer to complex problems of desegregation;
there is obviously no one plan that will do the job in every case.
The matter must be assessed in light of the circumstances present
and the options available in each instance. It is incumbent upon
the school board to establish that its proposed plan promises meaningful and immediate progress toward disestablishing state-imposed
segregation." Green v. County School Board, supra, at 439.
"Where [freedom of choice] offers real promise of aiding a
desegregation program to effectuate conversion of a state-imposed
dual system to a unitary, nonracial system there might be no
objection to allowing such a device to prove itself in operation. ...
"The New Kent School Board's 'freedom-of-choice' plan cannot
be accepted as a sufficient step to 'effectuate a transition' to a
unitary system. .. ." Id., at 440-441.

1222

OCTOBER TERM, 1969
Opinion in Chambers

396 U. S.

hearings both the Department of Justice and the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare took the position
that time was too short and the administrative problems
too difficult to accomplish a complete and orderly implementation of the desegregation plans before the beginning
of the 1969-1970 school year. The District Court found
as a matter of fact that the time was too short, and
the Court of Appeals held that these findings were
supported by the evidence. I am unable to say that
these findings are not supported. Therefore, deplorable
as it is to me, I must uphold the court's order which
both sides indicate could have the effect of delaying total
desegregation of these schools for as long as a year.
This conclusion does not comport with my ideas of
what ought to be done in this case when it comes
before the entire Court. I hope these applicants will
present the issue to the full Court at the earliest possible
opportunity. I would then hold that there are no
longer any justiciable issues in the question of making
effective not only promptly but at once-now---orders
sufficient to vindicate the rights of any pupil in the
United States who is effectively excluded from a public
school on account of his race or color.
It has been 15 years since we declared in Brown I
that a law which prevents a child from going to a public
school because of his color violates the Equal Protection
Clause. As this record conclusively shows, there are
many places still in this country where the schools are
either "white" or "Negro" and not just schools for all
children as the Constitution requires. In my opinion
there is no reason why such a wholesale deprivation of
constitutional rights should be tolerated another minute.
I fear that this long denial of constitutional rights is
due in large part to the phrase "with all deliberate speed."
I would do away with that phrase completely.
Application to vacate suspension of order denied.

