KEYES v. DENVER SCHOOL DISTRICT

1215

Opinion in Chambers
ET AL. V. SCHOOL DISTRICT NUMBER
ONE, DENVER, COLORADO, ET AL.

KEYES

ON APPLICATION FOR VACATION OF STAY

Decided August 29, 1969
Application for vacation of Court of Appeals' stay of preliminary
injunction entered by District Court that had the effect of requiring partial implementation of a school desegregation plan is
granted, the Court of Appeals' order is vacated, and the District
Court's order is directed to be reinstated. A district court's order
granting a preliminary injunction should not be disturbed by a
reviewing court unless the grant was an abuse of discretion, which
the Court of Appeals did not find here. Nor does the desire to
develop public support for the desegregation plan that the
Court of Appeals manifested constitute justification for delay in
the plan's implementation.
See: 303 F. Supp. 279 and 289.

Jack Greenberg and
application.

Conrad K.

Harper on the

Richard C. Cockrell, Thomas E. Creighton, and
Benjamin L. Craig in opposition.
MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN.

In this school desegregation case I am asked to
vacate a stay by the Court of Appeals for the Tenth
Circuit of a preliminary injunction entered by the District Court for the District of Colorado. The preliminary injunction has the effect of requiring partial implementation of a school desegregation plan prepared
by School District No. 1, Denver, Colorado, and then
rescinded by that Board after changes in membership
followed a school board election.
The Court of Appeals issued the stay pending decision
of an appeal taken by the School Board from the preliminary injunction. I have concluded that the stay was

1216

OCTOBER TERM, 1969
Opinion in Chambers

396 U. S.

improvidently granted and must be vacated. An order of
a district court granting or denying a preliminary injunction should not be disturbed by a reviewing court unless
it appears that the action taken on the injunction was
an abuse of discretion. Alabama v. United States, 279
U. S. 229 (1929). Where a preliminary injunction has
issued to vindicate constitutional rights, the presumption in favor of the District Court's action applies with
particular force. The Court of Appeals did not suggest that the District Court abused its discretion. On
the contrary, the Court of Appeals expressly stated
that the District Court's findings of fact "represent a
painstaking analysis of the evidence presented. They
establish a racial imbalance in certain named schools.
From the facts found, the district court either made a
conclusion or drew an inference, that de jure segregation exists in named schools. Its grant of the temporary
injunction is grounded on the premise that there is de
jure segregation."
The Court of Appeals nevertheless stated that it
"must decide whether the public interest is best served
by the maintenance of the status quo or by the acceptance
of the injunctive order," since the time before the Denver
schools were to open on September 2 was insufficient to
permit an examination of the record to determine whether
the District Court correctly held that this was a case of
de jure segregation. It may be that this inquiry was
appropriate notwithstanding the presumption in favor
of continuing the preliminary injunction in force. But
the reasons given by the Court of Appeals for striking
the balance in favor of the stay clearly supplied no
support in law for its action. It was not correct to
justify the stay on the ground that constitutional principles demanded only "that desegregation be accomplished with all convenient speed." "The time for mere
'deliberate speed' has run out .... " Griffin v. County

KEYES v. DENVER SCHOOL DISTRICT
1215

1217

Opinion in Chambers

School Board, 377 U. S. 218, 234 (1964). "The burden
on a school board today is to come forward with a plan
that promises realistically to work, and promises realistically to work now." Green v. County School Board,
391 U. S. 430, 439 (1968). The obligation of the District Court was to assess the effectiveness of the School
Board's plans in light of that standard. Ibid. Since
the Court of Appeals not only was unable to say that
the District Court's assessment was an abuse of discretion,
but agreed that it "may be correct," the stay of the preliminary injunction was improvident.
The Court of Appeals also seems to have based its
action on the premise that public support for the plan
might be developed if any order awaited final hearing;
the Court of Appeals stated that a plan of desegregation
"must depend for its success on the understanding cooperation of the people of the area." But the desirability of developing public support for a plan designed
to redress de jure segregation cannot be justification for
delay in the implementation of the plan. Cooper v.
Aaron, 358 U. S. 1 (1958).
I therefore grant the application, vacate the order of
the Court of Appeals, and direct the reinstatement of
the order of the District Court.

