JONES v. LEMOND

1227

Opinion in Chambers

JONES v. LEMOND, COMMANDING
OFFICER, E-r AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

Decided September 15, 1969
Applicant, who had been court-martialed for unauthorized absence,
and having exhausted all military administrative remedies, sought
release by habeas corpus in the District Court, claiming that the
improper processing of his application for discharge from military
service should have barred his conviction. A broad and sweeping
stay was denied by the Court of Appeals. Pending disposition of
applicant's appeal on the merits of this case, which involves the
contention that the matter of conscientious objection is one of
First Amendment proportions, a stay is granted directing that
applicant be confined in "open restricted barracks" and not in the
brig where, if his allegations are true, his life may be endangered.
See: 18 U. S. C. M. A. 513, 40 C. M. R. 225.

Donald A. Jelinek on the application.
Circuit Justice.
Applicant, who has been convicted by the military
authorities for unauthorized absence, brought suit in the
District Court for release by habeas corpus and for other
ancillary relief. He apparently has exhausted all military administrative remedies, the Court of Military
Appeals having denied him any relief.
His conflict with the Navy arose out of his desire to
be discharged as a conscientious objector, a status he
claims to have acquired some five months after his enlistment. Department of Defense Directive 1300.6, August
MR.

JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

21, 1962, revised May 10, 1968, provides for processing
such applications and states that pending decision on the

application and "to the extent practicable," the applicant

"will be employed in duties which involve the minimum

conflict with his asserted beliefs."
According to the allegations, applicant made repeated
attempts for 37 days to file and process his application

1228

OCTOBER TERM, 1969
Opinion in Chambers

396 U.S.

for discharge as a conscientious objector and, if the
allegations are sustained, was unable either to make a
filing or obtain a hearing. He thereupon left his place
of duty without authorization, thereafter surrendering
himself. Once again, if his allegations are believed, he
was unable to make a filing or obtain a hearing on his
request for discharge as a conscientious objector. He
thereupon escaped from Navy custody to obtain legal
counsel who surrendered him to Navy authorities while
the conscientious objector application is pending.
The basic question of law is whether improper processing of an application for discharge as a conscientious
objector is a defense to court-martial proceedings.
The question will in time be decided by the Court of
Appeals or by the Supreme Court as applicant has appealed from the dismissal of his petition by the District
Court.
The issue tendered in this case-and in others before
the Supreme Court-is that the matter of conscientious
objection is of First Amendment dimensions whether
based on religion, philosophy, or one's views of a particular "war" or armed conflict. Whether that view will
obtain, no one as yet knows. But if it does, the question
now tendered will be of great constitutional gravity.
I express no views on the merits. But I think a substantial question is presented. A stay of a broad and
sweeping character has been denied by the Court of
Appeals and I would concur but for one circumstance.
Confinement of applicant to the brig is apparently contemplated; and, again, if his allegations are believed,
sending him there may endanger his life in view of the
cruel regime which obtains in that prison.
Accordingly I have decided to grant a stay directing
respondents to confine applicant in the so-called "open
restricted barracks" and restraining them from confining
applicant in the brig, pending disposition of this appeal
on the merit&

