BRUSSEL v. UNITED STATES

1229

Opinion in Chambers

BRUSSEL v. UNITED STATES
ON APPLICATION FOR BAIL OR OTHER RELIEF

Decided October 10, 1969
Applicant was held in civil contempt, despite his claim of Fifth
Amendment privilege, apparently on the ground of the corporaterecords doctrine, for his refusal following denial of immunity from
prosecution to answer questions before a grand jury and produce
corporate records. He made emergency application for bail to
the Court of Appeals and applied to the Circuit Justice for the
same relief. Applicant is released on his own recognizance pending disposition of his appeal by the Court of Appeals. The circumstances here warrant departure from the usual practice of
denying relief where a request for the same relief has not been
ruled on by the court below, viz., the corporate-records doctrine
can be invoked only against a custodian of the records but no
evidence appears here that applicant was the custodian or connected with the corporations; no substantial risk was shown that
applicant would not appear at further proceedings; and applicant
assertedly has no criminal record.

Ephraim London on the application.
MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL,

Circuit Justice.

Applicant was held in civil contempt by the United
States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois
on October 7, 1969, and was immediately confined to
the Cook County jail. On the same day, the District
Court denied him bail pending appeal. On October 8,
applicant filed a notice of appeal to the United States
Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit from the con-

tempt order, and made an emergency application for
bail. The Court of Appeals ordered the United States
Attorney to respond to that application by October 13,
next Monday. On October 9, the present application
was made to me in my capacity as Circuit Justice.
Though it is our usual practice to deny such requests

1230

OCTOBER TERM, 1969
Opinion in Chambers

396 U. S.

when the courts of appeals have not yet ruled on an
application for the same relief, I am constrained by the
unusual circumstances of this case to depart from that
practice.
Applicant was subpoenaed to appear before a federal
grand jury in Chicago and to bring with him certain
corporate records. Prior to his appearance before the
grand jury, applicant requested, but was denied, immunity from prosecution. Before the grand jury he
was asked if he was an officer of the corporations involved.
To this and other questions applicant declined to answer,
invoking his privilege against self-incrimination. He
was taken before the District Judge, who overruled his
claim of Fifth Amendment privilege, apparently on the
ground of the corporate-records doctrine, Wilson v.
United States, 221 U. S. 361 (1911). When applicant
persisted in refusing to answer, the court ordered him
jailed for civil contempt.
Curcio v. United States, 354 U. S. 118 (1957), raises
serious questions concerning the validity of the contempt
order. In that case, a union official, admittedly the
custodian of the union's records, refused on Fifth Amendment grounds to reveal their whereabouts to the grand
jury. This Court upheld the assertion of the privilege,
holding that the corporate-records exception applied only
to the records themselves, not to testimony concerning
them, and reiterating the established principle that "all
oral testimony by individuals can properly be compelled
only by exchange of immunity for waiver of privilege."
Id., at 124, citing Shapiro v. United States, 335 U. S. 1,
27 (1948).
It is true that applicant here, unlike Curcio, was cited
for failure to produce the subpoenaed records, as well
as for failure to testify. But the rule permitting compelled production of corporate records by their custodian
may be invoked only against a party who is in fact the

BRUSSEL v. UNITED STATES
1229

1231

Opinion in Chambers

custodian of the records in question. Yet there appears
no evidence in the record of this case that applicant
is the custodian of the documents subpoenaed, or indeed
that he has any connection with the corporations. Applicant thus argues that he has been jailed in the absence
of any evidence supporting an essential element of the
finding that he is in contempt. Cf. Thompson v.
Louisville, 362 U. S. 199 (1960).
Nothing in the record suggests any substantial risk
that applicant will not appear at further proceedings in
his case. As far as appears, he has complied with previous orders to appear; indeed, he interrupted his honeymoon in Mexico to be present at the grand jury hearing.
According to his affidavit, he has no criminal record.
Given the imposition of a contempt order for an explicit
assertion of the Fifth Amendment privilege, and the
other circumstances of the case, I am ordering applicant
released on his own recognizance pending disposition of
his appeal to the Court of Appeals.

