1210

OCTOBER TERM, 1969
Opinion in Chambers

ODEN

ET AL.

V.

BRITTAIN

396 U. S.
ET AL.

ON APPLICATION FOR INJUNCTION

Decided August 13, 1969
Application for injunction to prevent City of Anniston from holding
election to choose members of new city council in accordance with
state statute authorizing change from commission to councilmanager form of government denied. In this case, which is factually distinguishable from Allen v. State Board of Election, 393

U. S. 544, the election will not result in the severe irreparable harm
needed to justify an injunction; nor has the three-judge panel
designated to hear the case as yet considered the injunction
request. Since there is room for disagreement on this substantial
problem, application is denied without prejudice to request relief
from other Court members.

Oscar W. Adams, Jr., Jack Greenberg, James M. Nabrit III, and Norman C. Amaker on the application.
Circuit Justice.
This is an application presented to me as Circuit
Justice for an injunction to prevent the City of Anniston,
Alabama, from holding a local election on September 2,
1969--merely a few days from now-to select five members of a newly formed city council in accordance with
a state law which authorizes Anniston to change from
a commission to a council-manager form of government.
MR.

JUSTICE BLACK,

See City Manager Act of 1953, Ala. Code App. ยง 1124

et seq. (1958).
The applicants, all Negro citizens of Anniston, claim
that the election, if held, would violate the terms of
ยง 5 of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, 79 Stat. 439, 42
U. S. C. ยง 1973c (1964 ed., Supp. I), which provides that
certain Southern States or political subdivisions thereof
may not make any change in the procedure of elections in
effect as of November 1, 1964, unless the change is either

ODEN v. BRITTAIN
1210

1211

Opinion in Chambers

(1) submitted to the United States Attorney General in
Washington for review and he does not object, or (2) submitted to the United States District Court for the District of Columbia and that court after a hearing permits
the change to be made. This procedure is of course a
highly unusual departure from the basic rights of local
citizens to govern their own affairs. In this case all
Anniston is preparing to do is to change from a threemember commission, elected at large, to a five-member
council, also elected at large.
Last Term this Court decided, over my dissent, a
case which lends considerable support to the applicants'
request that no election be held until officials in Washington approve it. See Allen v. State Board of Elections,
393 U. S. 544 (1969). Even were I to accept the majority's view in that case, I do not feel that decision
necessarily controls the present situation which presents
many material factual differences. More importantly
I remain firmly convinced that the Constitution forbids
this unwarranted and discriminatory intervention by the
Federal Government in state and local affairs. See South
Carolina v. Katzenbach, 383 U. S. 301, 355-362 (1966)
(opinion of BLAcK, J.).
Intervention by the federal courts in state elections
has always been a serious business. Here the city has
already incurred considerable expense in preparing for
an election to be held within the next three weeks. If
this election were held, applicants could later bring suit
to have it set aside. I thus do not see why these plans
should be stopped in midstream in a case in which the
legal issues are unclear, when the election cannot result
in the severe irreparable harm necessary to justify the
issuance of the extraordinary remedy of an injunction by
an individual Justice.
In addition to the foregoing factors, the three-judge
panel designated to hear this case has not yet considered

1212

OCTOBER TERM, 1969
Opinion in Chambers

396 U. S.

the request for an injunction. While the applicants
allege that the panel cannot be convened prior to the
date set for the election, they have not shown that the
possibilities of obtaining an immediate hearing before
some three-judge court have been exhausted. There is
no indication that the assistance of the Chief Judge of
the Fifth Circuit, who is statutorily required by 28
U. S. C. ยง 2284 (1) to designate the members of the
panel, has been sought. In this situation I have considerable doubt as to my authority to grant the requested
relief. See Sup. Ct. Rules 18 (2), 27, and 51 (2). Therefore I decline to issue the requested injunction. Since,
however, the problem is substantial and there is room for
disagreement, I deny the application without prejudice
to the rights of the applicants to request relief from
other members of this Court. See Sup. Ct. Rule 50 (5).
Application denied without prejudice.

