1213

ROSADO v. WYMAN
Opinion in Chambers

ROSADO

ET AL.

V.

WYMAN

Er AL.

ON APPLICATION FOR STAY AND OTHER RELIEF

Decided August 20, 1969
Application for interim stay and other relief should be passed on
by full Court, since factors involved in granting a stay call for
the Court's collective judgment, the Court has denied a similar
stay at a different stage of the case, and an individual Justice
cannot order an accelerated schedule that is importantly related

to the stay request.
See: 414 F. 2d 170.

Lee A. Albert and Robert B. Borsody on the
application.
Louis J. Lefkowitz, Attorney General of New York,
Samuel A. Hirshowitz, First Assistant Attorney General,

Amy Juviler, Assistant Attorney General, and Philip
Weinberg in opposition.
Circuit Justice.
While I am of the view that this case is not unlikely
to be found a worthy candidate for certiorari, I am also
of the opinion that the present application for an interim
stay and other relief should be passed along to the
full Court for consideration.
The latter conclusion follows from my belief that the
factors involved in determining whether a stay should
issue are such as to call for the collective judgment of
the members of the Court and not merely that of an
individual Justice; from the circumstance that the Court
itself has already denied a similar stay application,
albeit at a stage when the case was in a different posture;
and from the fact that an individual Justice has no
power to order an accelerated schedule for briefing and
MR. JUSTICE HARL

,

1214

OCTOBER TERM, 1969
Opinion in Chambers

396 U. S.

hearing on the underlying merits of the case, an aspect
of the present application that seems to me importantly
related to the request for a stay.
If applicants' petition for certiorari is promptly filed,
that should ensure its consideration and disposition by
the Court at its first Conference in October. At that
time, I shall, pursuant to Rule 50 (6), refer this application to the Court for simultaneous consideration and
action.

