1204

OCTOBER TERM, 1969
396 U. S.

Opinion in Chambers

LEVY v. PARKER, WARDEN,

ET AL.

ON APPLICATION FOR BAIL

Decided August 2, 1969
Application by military prisoner for release on bail pending deter-

mination on merits of habeas corpus petition filed in District
Court is granted. Although bail had been denied by the lower
courts and the Circuit Justice, referral to the full Court is not
immediately possible, since the Court is in recess and the Justices
are widely scattered. There are substantial problems of whether
Article 134 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice, which, inter
alia, applicant had been convicted of violating, satisfies the standards of vagueness required by due process, and of First Amendment rights. While applicant's sentence will expire shortly, a
live controversy will continue and applicant should be released
on bail until the full Court can pass on the application.

Charles Morgan, Jr., Reber F. Boult, Jr., Morris
Brown, Henry W. Sawyer III, Anthony G. Amsterdam,
Alan H. Levine, Eleanor Holmes Norton, and Melvin L.
Wulf on the application.
Solicitor General Griswold in opposition.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS.

Applicant has been sentenced to three years' imprisonment after conviction of one charge each for violating

Articles 90, 133, and 134 of the Uniform Code of Military
Justice, 10 U. S. C. §§ 890, 933, 934. He has exhausted
all of his military remedies and has now filed a petition
for a writ of habeas corpus in the District Court for the
Middle District of Pennsylvania. He seeks release on
bail pending determination of the merits. The District
Court, the Court of Appeals, and the Circuit Justice,
MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN, have each denied bail. This
application to me therefore carries a special burden, for
we very seldom grant an order that has been denied

LEVY v. PARKER
1204

1205

Opinion in Chambers

by the Circuit Justice. Indeed the practice is to refer
such renewed application to the full Conference of this
Court. We are now in recess and widely scattered;
hence referral to the Conference is not immediately
possible.
Some of the problems tendered seem substantial to me.
One charge on which applicant stands convicted rests
on Article 134 which makes a crime "all disorders and
neglects to the prejudice of good order and discipline
in the armed forces." In O'Callahanv. Parker,395 U. S.
258, which the lower courts did not have before them
when they denied bail, we reserved decision on whether
Article 134 satisfies the standards of vagueness required
by due process. Apart from the question of vagueness
is the question of First Amendment rights. While in the
Armed Services, applicant spoke out against the war in
Vietnam. The extent to which First Amendment rights
available to civilians are not available to servicemen is a
new and pressing problem.
It is true that applicant's sentence will expire on
August 14, 1969. But in light of Carafas v. LaVallee,
391 U. S. 234, I would not think that the running of the
sentence would moot the petition for habeas corpus.
A live controversy will continue; and I have concluded
that this applicant should be released on bail until the
full Court can pass on the application. For, in my view,
substantial issues are presented on the merits.
The applicant, Howard B. Levy, is hereby ordered
admitted to bail pending final determination of this
application by the full Court when it convenes October
6, 1969.
Bail is hereby fixed in the following amount: $1,000.
Ordered this the 2d day of August, 1969.

