OLD DEARBORN CO. v. SEAGRAM CORP. 1S3
178

Syllabus.

to that effect had been embodied in writing in the policy.
To refuse to give that defense effect would irremediably
subject the Company to liability. Compare Bradford
Electric Light Co. v. Clapper, 286 U. S. 145, 160. Because the statute is a "public act," faith and credit must
be given to its provisions as fully as if the materiality of
this specific misrepresentation in the application, and the
consequent non-existence of liability, had been declared
by a judgment of a New York court. Bradford Electric
Light Co. v. Clapper, supra, at page 155.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration or

decision of this case.
OLD DEARBORN DISTRIBUTING CO. v. SEAGRAM-DISTILLERS CORP.*
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 22b. Argued November 12, 13, 1936.-Decided December 7, 1936.
1. Section 1 of the Fair Trade Act of Illinois sanctions contracts of
sale or resale of commodities identified by the trade-mark, brand
or name of the producer or owner, which are in fair competition
with commodities of the same general class produced by others,
notwithstanding that such contracts stipulate (a) that the buyer
will not resell except at the price stipulated by the vendor; and
(b) that the producer or vendee of such a commodity shall require,
upon the sale to another, that he agree ih turn not to resell except
at the price stipulated by such producer or vendee. Section 2
provides that wilfully and knowingly advertising, offering for sale
or selling any commodity at less than the price stipulated in any
contract made consistently with § 1, whether the person doing so is
or is not a party to the contract, shall constitute unfair competition, giving rise to a right of action in favor of anyone damaged
thereby. As applied to a dealer who, with full knowledge of an
existing price restriction imposed by contract between a producer
*.Together

with No. 372, McNeil v. Joseph Triner Corp. Appeal

from the Supreme Court of Illinois.

184

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Statement of the Case.

299 U. S.

and other dealers, acquired a stock of the commodity covered by
such restriction and resold the same without regard thereto, thus
subjecting himself to liability under § 2 of the Act, held:
(1) The Act does not infringe the doctrine of previous decisions of this Court dealing with legislative price fixing; those decisions constitute no authority for holding that prices in respect of
"identified" goods may not be fixed under legislative leave by contract between the parties. P. 192.
(2) The Act does not violate the due process of law clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment as an unlawful delegation of power to
private persons to control the disposition of the property of others.
Distinguishing: Eubank v. Richmond, 226 U. S. 137; Seattle Trust
Co. v. Roberge, 278 U. S. 116; and Carter v. Carter Coal Co., 298
U. S. 238. Pp. 193-194.
(3) The Act is not arbitrary, unfair, or unreasonable. P. 194.
(4) The essence of the statutory prohibition is not the mere disposal of the commodity, but the use of the trade-mark, brand or
name in accomplishing such disposition. There is nothing in the
Act to preclude the purchaser from removing the mark or brand
from the commodity-thus separating the physical property, which
he owns, from the good will, which is the property of another-and
then selling the commodity at his own price, provided he can do so
without utilizing the good will as an aid to that end. Pp. 194-195.
(5) The Act does not deny the equal protection of the laws in
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment, by conferring a privilege
upon the producers and owners of goods identified by trade-mark,
brand or name, which it denies in the case of unidentified gocd
The classification is reasonable. P. 197.
2. Considering the statute as a whole, the phrases "fair and open
competition" in § 1, and "any commodity" and "any contract
entered into pursuant to the provisions of § 1" in § 2, are not
fatally vague and uncertain. P. 196.
3. Where, in determining whether the factual, background justifies
the particular legislation, the question as to what the facts establish is a fairly debatable one, this Court accepts the legislative
determination in that respect. P. 195.
363 Ill. 559, 2 N. E. (2d) 929; 363 Ill. 610, 2 N. E. (2d) 940,
affirmed.

APPEALS from decrees of the state supreme court in
two cases, sustaining the validity under the Federal Constitution of provisions of the Fair Trade Act of Illinois.

OLD DEARBORN CO. v. SEAGRAM CORP.
183

185

Opinion of the Court.

Messrs. Irving Breakstone and Nicholas J. Pritzker for
appellant in No. 226.
Mr. Richard Mayer, with whom Messrs. Isaac H.
Mayer and Carl Meyer were on the brief, for appellee in
No. 226.
Messrs. Stanford Clinton and J. Herzt Segal, with
whom Mr. Nicholas J. Pritzker was on the brief, for
appellant in No. 372.
Mr. Hamilton Moses, with whom Messrs. Walter Bachrach, Stanley Morris, and Miss R. Weyand were on the
brief, for appellee in No. 372.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These appeals bring here for decision the question of
the constitutional validity of § § 1 and 2 of the Fair Trade
Act of Illinois (Smith-Hurd. Rev. Stat., 1935, c. 121-1/2,
§ 188 et seq.; Illinois State Bar Stat., 1935, c. 140, § 8
et seq.), providing as follows:
"Section 1. No contract relating to the sale or resale of
a commodity which bears, or the label or content of which
bears, the trade mark, brand or name of the producer or
owner of such commodity and which is in fair and open
competition with commodities of the same general class
produced by others shall be deemed in violation of any
law of the State of Illinois by reason of any of the
following provisions which may be contained in buch
contract:
"(1) That the buyer will not resell such commodity
except at the price stipulated by the vendor.
"(2) That the producer or vendee-of a commodity require upon the sale of such commodity to another, that
such purchaser agree that he will not, in turn, resell
except at the price stipulated by such producer or
vendee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

"Such provisions in any contract shall be deemed to
contain or imply conditions that such commodity may be
resold without reference to such agreement in the
following cases:
"(1) In closing out the owner's stock for the purpose
of discontinuing delivery of any such commodity: provided, however, that such stock is first offered to the
manufacturer of such stock at the original invoice price,
at least ten (10) days before such stock shall be offered
for sale to the public.
"(2) When the goods are damaged or deteriorated in
quality, and notice is given to the public thereof.
"(3) By any officer acting under the orders of any court.
"Section 2. Wilfully and knowingly advertising, offering for sale or selling any commodity at less than the price
stipulated in any contract entered into pursuant to the
provisions of section 1 of this Act, whether the person so
advertising, offering' for sale or selling is or is not a party
to such contract, is unfair competition and is actionable
at the suit of any person damaged thereby."
Section 3 of the act provides that it shall not apply to
contracts or agreements between producers or between
wholesalers or between retailers as to sale or resale prices.
No. 226 is a suit brought by appellee against appellant
to enjoin the latter from wilfully and knowingly advertising, offering for sale or selling, certain brands of whisky
at less than prices, stipulated by appellee in accordance
with contracts, made in pursuance of the Fair Trade Act,
between appellee and distributors or retailers of such
whisky. The facts set forth by the court below follow.
Appellee is a dealer in alcoholic beverages at wholesale. It buys the products here in question from the producers. The whiskies bear labels and trade-marks, and
are in fair and open competition with commodities of the
same general class produced by others. Appellant is a
corporation operating four retail liquor stores in Chicago,

OLD DEARBORN CO. v. SEAGRAM CORP. 187
183

Opinion oi the Court.

and selling at both wholesale and retail. Appellee's sales
in Chicago are made to wholesale distributors. It has not
sold any of the whiskies in controversy to appellant, but
has sold other liquors. Contracts in pursuance of the
Fair Trade Act have been executed between appellee and
certain distributors, and numerous Illinois retailers. 4ppellee does not sell directly to any retailer. Appellant
sold the products in question at cut prices-that is to say,
at prices below those stipulated-and continued to do so
after appellee's demand that it cease such practice. The
result of such price cutting was a diminution of sales during the price-cutting period suffered by appellee and retailers other than appellant. Some dealers ceased to display the products, and notified appellee that they could
not compete with appellant and would discontinue handling the products unless the piice cutting was stopped.
Appellant was also a party to breaches of other fairtrade contracts between appellee and certain distributors,
and continued the price cutting throughout the trial of
the case in the Illinois state court 'of first instance.
The record shows that one of the retailer's contracts
drawn in pursuance of the act was signed by appellant's
secretary and treasurer prior to the commission of the
acts complained of. This contract, among other things
provided that the product in question should not be sold,
advertised or offered for sale in Illinois below the prices
to be stipulated by appellee. The contract was assailed
by appellant below as ineffective, and for present purposes we accept that view. It is plain enough, however,
that appellant had knowledge of the original contractual
restrictions and that they constituted conditions upon
which sales thereafter were to be made.
No. 372 is a suit of the same character as No. 226,
seeking the same relief by injunction. The facts set forth
in the complaint were admitted by a motion to dismiss.
These facts, fully stated in the opinion of -he court below,

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinicn of the Court.

299 U. S.

infra, we find it unnecessary to repeat. It is enough to
say that while they differ in detail from those appearing
in No. 226, they are sufficiently the same in substance as
to be controlled by the same principles of law.
Both appellants attack the validity of the act upon
the grounds that it denies due process of law and the
equal protection of the laws in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment in the particulars which hereafter
appear. The state courts of first instance in which the
suits were brought sustained the validity of the act and
entered decrees as prayed for in the bills of complaint.
These decrees were affirmed upon appeal by the court
below. 363 Ill. 559, 2 N. E. (2d) 929; 363 Ill. 611, 2
N. E. (2d) 940.
The Illinois statute constitutes a legislative recognition of a rule which had been accepted by many of the
state courts as valid at common law. This rule was
based upon the distiiction found to exist between articles
of trade put out by the manufacturer or producer under,
and identified by, patent, copyright, trade-mark, brand, or
similar device, and articles of like character put out by
others and not so identified. The same rule was followed for a time by some of the lower fedcral courts;
but their decisions were upset by this court in a series
of cases, of which Dr. Miles Medical Co. v. Park & Sons
Co., 220 U. S. 373 is an example. In that case this court
held that a system of contracts between manufacturers
and wholesale and retail merchants which sought to control the prices for sales by all such dealers by fixing the
amount which the consumer should pay, amounted to an
unlawful restraint of trade, invalid at common law and,
so far as interstate commerce was affected, invalid under
the Sherman Anti-trust Act of July 2, 1890; and it was
held that the rule applied to such agreements notwithstanding the fact that they related to proprietary medicines made under a secret process and identified by dis-

OLD DEARBORN CO. v. SEAGRAM CORP.
183

189

Opinion of the Court.

tinctive packages, labels and trade-marks. The argument
that since the manufacturer might make and sell or not
as he chose, he could lawfully condition the price at
which subsequent sales could be made by the purchaser,
was rejected.
"If there be an advantage to a manufacturer in the
maintenance of fixed retail prices," this court said at
pages 407-409, "the question remains whether it is one
which he is entitled to secure by agreements restricting
the freedom of trade on the part of dealers who own what
they sell. As to this, the complainant can fare no better
with its plan of identical contracts than could the dealers
themselves if they formed a combination and endeavored
to establish the same restrictions, and thus to achieve
the same result, by agreement with each other. If the
immediate advantage they would thus obtain would not
be sufficient to sustain such a direct agreement, the asserted ulterior benefit to the complainant cannot be regarded as sufficient to support its system. . . . The complainant's plan falls within the principle which condemns
contracts of this class. It, in effect, creates a combination for the prohibited purposes. No distinction can
properly be made by reason of the particular character
of the commodity in question. It is not entitled to special privilege or immunity. It is an article of commerce
and the rules concerning the freedom .of trade must be
held to apply to it. . . . The complainant having sold its
product at prices satisfactory to itself, the public is entitled to whatever advantage may be derived from competition in the subsequent traffic."
It is unnecessary to review the contrary state decisions.
It is enough, for present purposes, to say that, generally
speaking, they sustained contracts standardizing the price
at which "identified" commodities subsequently might be
sold, where the price standardization is primarily effected
to protect the good will created or enlarged by the identi-

190

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

fying mark or brand. Where a manufacturer puts out
an article of general production identified by a special
trade-mark or brand, the result of an agreement fixing the
subsequent sales price affects competition between the
identified articles alone, leaving competition between articles so identified by a given manufacturer and all other
articles of like kind to have full play. In other worlds,
such restraint upon competition as there may be is strictly
limited to that portion of the entire product put out and
plainly identified by a particular manufacturer or producer.
The ground upon which the opposing view of this court
proceeds is that such an agreement, nevertheless, constitutes an unlawful restraint of trade at common law and,
in respect of interstate commerce, a violation of the
Sherman Anti-trust Act. A careful reading of the decisions discloses no other ground.
Following these decisions, bills were introduced in Congress from time to time authorizing standardization-ofprice agreements in respect of identified goods, upon
which extensive hearings were held by the appropriate
Congressional committees. These bills are in all essential respects like the Illinois act. The hearings disclose
exhaustive legal briefs, and testimony and arguments for
and. against the economi value of the proposed laws.
See, for example, Hearings before the Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce of the House of Representatives, on H. R. 13305 .(63d Cong., 2d and 3d Sess.);
H. R. 13568 (64th Cong., 1st and 2d Sess.); compaiReport of the Federal Trade Commission on Resale Price
Maintenance, 70th Cong., 2d Sess., H. Doc. No. 546.
It is not without significance that while the proposed
legislation was vigorously assailed in other respects, we
do not find that any constitutional objection -was urged.
And the decisions of this court, far from suggesting any
constitutional infirmity in such proposed legislation, con-

OLD DEARBORN CO. v. SEAGRAM CORP.
183

191

Opinion of the Court.

tain implications to the contrary. In the Dr. Miles
Medical Co. case (p. 405), the court said, "Nor can the
manufacturer by rule and notice; in the absence of contract or statutory right, even though the- restriction be
known to purchasers, fix prices for future sales." (Italics
supplied.) In Boston Store v. American Graphophone
Co., 246 U. S. 8, where this court struck down a stipulation that patented articles should not te resold at prices
other than those fixed presently and from time to time by
the patent owner, it was suggested (p. 26) that if this
view resulted in damage to the holders of patent rights
or the law afforded insufficient protection to the inventor,
the remedy lay within the scope of legislative (that is to
say, Congressional) action. And in a concurring opinion
(p. 28), it was said, "If the rule so declared is believed to
be harmful in its operation, the remedy may be found, as
it has been sought, through application to the Congress . . ," The words "as it has been sought" quite evidently referred to the bills of which we have just-spoken,
since they had theretofore been introduced and made the
subject of the hearings. See, also Bauer & Cie v. O'Donnell, 229 U. S. 1, 12. While these observations of the
court cannot, of course, be regarded as decisive of the
question, they plainly imply that the court at the time
foresaw no valid constitutional objection to such legislation, for it cannot be supposed that the court would suggest a legislative remedy the validity of which might
seem open to doubt.
In the light of the foregoing brief resum6 of the question with respect to the standardization of selling prices
of identified goods in the absence of statutory authority,
we proceed to a consideratidn of the specific objections
to the constitutionality of the act here -under review.
First. In respect of the due process of law clause, it is
contended that the statute is a price-fixing law, which has
the effect of denying to the owner of property the right

192

OCTOBER TERM, i936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

to determine for himself the price at which he will sell.
Appellants invoke the well-settled general principle that
the right of the owner of property to fix the price at
which he will sell it is an inherent attribute of the property itself, and as such is within the protection of the
Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments. Tyson & Brother
.v. Banton, 273 U. S. 418, 429; Wolff Co. v. Industrial
Court, 262 U. S. 522, 537; Ribnik v. McBride, 277 U. S.
350; Williams v. Standard Oil Co., 278 U. S. 235; New
State Ice Co. v. Liebmann, 285 U. S. 262. These cases
hold that, with certain exceptions, which need not now
be set forth, this right of the owner cannot be denied by
legislative enactment fixing prices and compelling such
owner to adhere to them. But the decisions referred to
deal only with legislative price fixing. They constifute
no authority for holding that prices in respect of "identified" goods may not be fixed under legislative leave by
contract between the parties. The Illinois Fair Trade
Act does not infringe the doctrine of these cases.
Section 1 affirms the validity of contracts of sale or resale of commodities identified by the trade-mark, brand
or name of the producer or owner, which are in fair and
open competition with commodities of the same- general
class produced by others, notwithstanding that such contracts stipulate (1) that the buyer will not resell except
at the price stipulated by the vendor; and (2) that the
producer or vendee of such a commodity shall require,
upon the sale to another, that he agree in turn not to resell except at the price stipulated by such producer or
vendee. It is clear that this section does not attempt to
fix prices, nor does it delegate such power to private persons. It permits the designated private persons to contract with respect thereto. It contains no element of
compulsion but simply legalizes their acts, leaving them
free to enter into the authorized contract or not as they
may see fit. Thus far, the act plainly is not open to objection; and none seems to be made.

OLD DEARBORN CO. v. SEAGRAM CORP.
183

193

Opinion of the Court.

The challenge is directed against § 2, which provides
that wilfully and knowingly advertising, offering for sale
or selling any commodity at less than the price stipulated in any contract made under § 1, whether the person
doing so is or is not a party to the contract, shall constitute
unfair competition, giving rise to a right of action in favor
of anyone damaged thereby.
It is first to be observed that § 2 reaches not the mere
advertising, offering for sale or selling at less than the
stipulated pride, but the doing of any of these things
wilfully and knowingly. We are not called upon to
determine the case of one who has made his purchase in
ignorance of the contractual restriction upon the selling
price, but of a purchaser who has had definite information respecting.such contractual restriction and who, with
such knowledge, nevertheless proceeds wilfully to resell
in disregard of it.
I In the second place, § 2 does not deal with the restriction upon the sale of the commodity qua commodity, but
with that restriction because the commodity is identified
by the trade-mark, brahd or name of the producer or
owner. The essence of the statutory violation then consists not in the bare disposition of the commodity, but in
a forbidden use of the trade-mark, brand or name in
accomplishing such disposition. The primary aim of the
law is to protect the property-namely, the good willof the producer,, which he still owns. The price restriction is adopted as an appropriate means to that perfectly
legitimate end, and not as an end in itself.
Appellants here acquired the commodity in question
with full knowledge of the then-existing restriction in respect of price which the producer and wholesale dealer had
imposed, and, of course, with presumptive if not actual
knowledge of the law which authorized the restriction.
Appellants were not obliged to buy; and their voluntary
acquisition of the property with such knowledge carried

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

with it, upon every principle of fair dealing, assent to the
protective restriction, with consequent liability under § 2
of the law by which such acquisition was conditioned.
Cf. Provident Institution v. Jersey City, 113 U. S. 506,
514-515; Vreeland v. O'Neil, 36 N. J. Eq. 399, 402; same
case on appeal, 37 N. J. Eq. 574, 577.
We find nothing in this situation to justify the contention that there is an unlawful delegation of power to private persons to control the disposition of the property of
others, such as was condemned in Eubank v. Richmond,
226 U. S. 137, 143; Seattle Trust Co. v. Roberge, 278 U. S.
116, 121-122; and Carter v. Carter Coal Co., 298 U. S.
238, 311. In those cases the property affected had been
acquired without any preexisting restriction in respect
of its use or disposition. The imposition of the restriction
in invitum was authorized after complete and unrestricted
ownership had vested in the persons affected. Here, the
restriction, already imposed with the knowledge of appellants, ran with the acquisition and conditioned it.
Nor is § 2 so arbitrary, unfair or wanting in reason as
to result in a denial of due process. We are here dealing
not with a commodity alone, but with a commodity plus
the brand or trade-mark which it bear's as evidence of its
origin and of the quality of the commodity for which the
brand or trade-mark stands. Appellants own the commodity; they do not own the mark or the good will that
the mark symbolizes. And good will is property in a
lery real sense, injury to which, like injury to any other
species of property, is a proper subject for legislation.
Good will is a valuable contributing aid to businesssometimes the most valuable contributing asset of the
producer or distributor of commodities. And distinctive
trade-marks, labels and brands, are legitimate aids to the
creation or enlargement of such good will. It is well
settled that the proprietor of the good will "is entitled
to protection as against one who attempts to deprive him

OLD DEARBORN CO. v. SEAGRAM CORP.
183

195

Opinion of the Court.

of the benefits resulting from the same, by using his labels
and trade-mark without his consent and authority."
McLean v. Fleming, 96 U. S. 245, 252. "Courts afford
redress or relief upon the ground that a party has a valuable interest in the good-will of his trade or business, and
in the trade-marks adopted to maintain and extend it."
Hanover Milling Ca. v. Metcalf, 240 U. S. 403, 412. The
ownership of the. good will, we repeat, remains unchanged,
notwithstanding the commodity has been parted with.
Section 2 of the act does not prevent a purchaser of the
commodity bearing the mark from selling the commodity
alone at any price he pleases. It interferes only when he
sells with the aid of the good will of the vendor; and it
interferes then only to protect that good will against injury. It proceeds upon the theory that the sale of identified goods at less than the price fixed by the owner of the
mark or brand is an assault upon the good will, and constitutes what the statute denominates "unfair competition." See Liberty Warehouse Co. v. Burley Tobacco
Growers' Assn., 276 U. S. 71, 91-92, 96-97. There is
nothing in the act to preclude the purchaser from removing the mark or brand from the commodity-thus separating the physical property, which he owns, from the
good will, which is the property of another-and then
selling the commodity at his own price, provided he can
do so without utilizing the good will of the latter as an
aid to that end.
There is a great body of fact and opinion tending to
show that price cutting by retail dealers is not only injurious to the good will and business of the producer and
distributor of identified goods, but injurious to the general public as well. The evidence to that effect is voluminous; but it would serve no useful purpose to review
the evidence or to enlarge further upon the subject.
True there is evidence, opinion and argument to the contrary; but it does not concern us to determine where the

196

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

weight lies. We need say no more than that the question
may be regarded as fairly open to differences of opinion.
The legislation here in question proceeds upon the former
and not the latter view; and the legislative determination in that respect, in the circumstances here disclosed, is
conclusive so far as this court is concerned. Where the
question of what the facts establish is a fairly-debatable
one, we accept and carry into effect the opinion of the legislature. Radice v. New York, 264 U. S. 292, 294; Zahn v.
Board of Public Works, 274 U. S.325, 328, and cases cited.
Certain terms contained in the act are said to be fatally
vague and indefinite, and therefore to deny due process of
law under our decisions in Connally v. General Construction Co., 269 U. S. 385, 390 et seq., and other cases. The
contention is directed in the main against the phrase in
.§ 1 of the act, "fair and open competition," and "any commodity" and "any contract entered into pursuant to the
provisions of section 1" contained in § 2. The point is
shown to be lacking in substance by the reasoning in the
Connally case at pp. 391-392 and the cases there cited.
See particularly Hygrade Provision Co. v. Sherman, 266
U. S. 497, 501-503; United States v. Cohen Grocery Co.,
255 U. S. 81, 92, where it is said "that, for reasons found
to result either from the text of the statutes involved or
the subjects with which they dealt, a standard of some
sort was afforded." Certainly, the phrase "fair and
open competition" is as definite as the phrase contained
in § 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, "unfair
methods of competition," which this court has never
regarded as being fatally uncertain. Federal Trade
Comm'n v. Gratz, 253 U. S. 421, 427; Federal Trade
Comm'n v. Beech-Nut Co., 257 U. S. 441, 453; Federal
Trade Comm'n v. Raladam Co., 283 U. S. 643, 648. We
think the phrases complained of are sufficiently definite,
corisidering the whole statute; and that no one need be
misled as to their meaning, or need suffer by reason of

OLD DEARBORN CO. v. SEAGRAM CORP.
183

197

Opinion of the Court.

any supposed uncertainty. Cf. Miller v. Schoene, 276
U. S. 272, 281; Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 221
U. S. 1, 69.
. Second. The contention that § 2 of the act denies the
equal protection of the laws in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment proceeds upon the view that it confers a privilege upon the producers and owners of goods
)identified by trade-mark, brand or name, which it denies
in the case of unidentified goods. As this court many
times has said, the equal-protection clause does not preclude the states from resorting to classification for the
purposes of legislation. It only requires that the classification "must be reasonable, not arbitrary, and must rest
upon some ground of difference having a fair and substantial relation to the object of the legislation, so that all
persons similarly circumstanced shall be treated alike."
Colgate 'v. Harvey, 296 U. S. 404, 422, 423, and cases
cited.
Clearly, the challenged section of the Illinois act satisfies this test. Enough appears already in this opinion to
show the essential difference between trade-marked goods
and others not so identified. ,The entire struggle to bring
about legislation such as the -Illinois act embodies has
been based upon this essential difference. In Radice v.
New York, 264 U. S. 292, 296-297, we sustained a statute
prohibiting night employment of women in restaurants
in large cities, against the claim that it denied equal protection of the laws in that it did not apply to small cities,
or to women employed as singers and performers, or to
attendants in ladies' cloak rooms and parlors, or employees in hotel dining rooms and kitchens or in lunch
rooms and restaurants conducted by employers for the
benefit of their employees. Former decisions of the court
were cited sustaining classifications based .upon differences between fire insurance and other kinds of insurance;
between railroads and other corporations; between Ibarber-shop employment and other kinds of labor; between

198

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Counsel for Parties.

299 U. S.

"immigrant agents" engaged in hiring iatorers to be
employed beyond the limits of a state and persons engaged
in the business of hiring for labor within the state; between sugar refiners who produce the sugar and those
who purchase it. Other illustrations of a similar character might be cited.
But it is unnecesgary to pursue the subject further; for,
since the sole purpose of the present law is to afford a
legitimate remedy for an injury to the good will which
results from the use of trade-marks, 'brands or names, it
is obvious that its provisions would be wholly inapplicable to goods which are unmarked.
Decrees affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration or
decision of these cases.
THE PEP BOYS, MANNY, MOE & JACK OF CALIFORNIA, INC. v. PYROIL SALES CO., INC.*
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA,.

No. 55.

Argued November 12, 1936.-Decided December 7, 1936.

Constitutionality of Fair Trade Act of California upheld upon the
authority of Old Dearborn Distributing Co. v. Seagram-Distillers
Corp., ante, p. 183.
5 Cal. (2d) 784, 55 P. (2d) 194; 5 Cal. (2d) 446, 55 P. (2d) 177,
affirmed.

APPEALS from decrees of the state supreme court in
two cases sustaining the validity under the Federal Constitution of the Fair Trade Act of California.
Mr. John W. Davis, with whom Mr. Irving M. Walker
was on the brief, for appellant in No. 55.
*Together with No. 79, Kunsman v. Max Factor & Co. et al.
Appeal from the Supreme Court of California.

