468

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

299 U. S.

SHAPLEIGH ET AL. V. MIER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 125.

Argued Deenember 9, 1936.-Decided-January 4, 1937.

1. A transfer of land from the sovereignty of Mexico to that of the
United States, brought about by an avulsive change in the course
of the Rio Grande-the boundary stream-and by the provisions
of the Convention of June 5, 1907, and proceedings thereunder,
lid not affect its private ownership. P. 469.
2. An expropriation of such land while still a part of Mexico, if
lawful and effective under the Constitution and laws of Mexico
when made, must be recognized as lawful and effective under the
laws of the United States when questioned in a judicial proceeding. P. 471.
3. In an action to establish ownership of land on the Rio Grande
which became part of the State of Texas pursuant to the above
mentioned Convention with Mexico, the District Court found that,
before the transfer of sovereignty, there bad been an expropriation, valid under the laws of Mexico, by which the plaintiffs were
divested of any title they may have had. Assuming that the
Mexican proceedings were rexaminable and that the finding is
reviewable with the aid of judicial notice of the Mexican law, held
that the plaintiffs have failed to make out their case, since the
finding was reasonably supported by the evidence taken below,
and this Court has been referred to no document or other evidence
dehors the record establishing a different rule. P. 472.
4. To say that a court will take judicial notice of a fact, whether
it be an event or a custom or a law of some other govermnent, is
merely another way of saying that the usual forms of evidence will
be dispensed with if knowledge of the fact can be otherwise
acquired. P. 475.
5. Judicial notice and judicial knowledge are not the same thing.
A court that is left without knowledge of a fact after exploring to
the full every channel of information, must needs decide against
the litigant who counts upon the fact as an essential of his claim.
De non apparentibus et de non existentibus eadem est ratio.
P. 475.
83 F. (2d) 673, affirmee

SHAPLEIGH v. MIER.
468

CERTIoRARI *

Opinion of the Court.

to review a judgment affirming a judg-

ment against the plaintiffs, the present petitioners, in an
action of trespass to try title before a district judge without a jury.
Mr. H. R. Gamble for petitioners.
Mr. Richard F. Burges for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The action is trespass for the trial of title.
Plaintiffs, petitioners here, are citizens of Missouri; defendant, respondent here, is a citizen of Mexico. A tract
of 337 acres in Texas, known as "El Guayuco Banco No.
319," on the left bank of the Rio Grande river, is the subject matter of the controversy. A jury having been
waived, the trial was by a judge, who made his findings
of fact and conclusions of law, and gave judgment for defendant. From this there was an appeal, its scope, however, narrowed by the manner of the trial and the form
of the decision. Eastman Kodak Co. v. Gray, 292 U. S.
332; Harvey Co. v. Malley, 288 U. S. 415; Fleischmann
Co. v. United States, 270 U. S. 349. A single question was
open: were the conclusions of law supported by the facts
as found, when supplemented by any other facts within
the range of judicial notice? The Court of Appeals for
the Fifth Circuit affirmed the judgment of the District
Court. 83 F. (2d) 673. We granted certiorari to pass
upon the contention, strongly pressed by the petitioners,
that their rights had been illegally divested through the
action of a foreign government.
The land in controversy was once part of the Mexican
state of Chihuahua. In 1926 it was cut by avulsion from
" See Table of Cases Reported in this Volume.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

the south or right bank of the Rio Grande tQ the north
or left bank, and became part of the United States. By
the ordinary rule a change of location resulting from avulsion would have left Mexico still sovereign over the territory thus moved, the centre .of the old channel remaining as the boundary. Missouri v. Nebraska, 196 U. S. 23,
35; Nebraska v. Iowa, 143 U. S. 359, 361, 367, 370. Here
a different rule applied by force of a convention, proclaimed June 5, 1907 (35 Stat. 1863), whereby the boundaries were to shift in the event of future changes, with
exceptions not now material as to population and area.
A Boundary Commission, previously established but confirmed by the Coivention, marked the change upon the
ground. Sovereignty was thus transferred, but private
ownership remained the same. United States v. Chaves,
159 U. S. 452, 457; United States v. Percheman, 7 Pet.
51, 86. To find the title to the land today we must know
where title stood while the land was yet in Mexico.
In 1925, before the river had wrought the change, proceedings were begun for the division of a "latifundium,"
which embraced the land in controversy, and for its acquisition by the state. A petition in due form was submitted to the Governor of Chihuahua, and resulted in a
decree, dated March 5, 1925, whereby the State of Chihuahua was proclaimed to be the owner. The District
Judge has found that the plaintiffs and those from whom
they trace their claim were notified of the proceedings
and were given the opportunity to prove their title, but
failed to do so. The judge has also found that the proceedings were regular and valid, that there was no requirement in the Constitution or laws .of Mexico whereby
payment must be made or secured at or before the time
of expropriation, and that by force of the decree the
plaintiffs were divested of any title that had been theirs.
Following this expropriation, the defendant, who is now
in possession, filed with the proper officials an application

SHAPLEIGH v. MIER.
468

Opinion of the Court.

that he be permitted to buy the lands in suit, acquiring
by that request an inchoate or potential interest, which
was afterwards perfected by the payment of the purchase
price.
Petitioners. concede that the expropriation decree, if
lawful and effective under the Constitution and laws of
Mexico, must be recognized as lawful and effective under
the laws of the United States, the sovereignty of Mexico
at the time of that decree being exclusive of any other.
Oetjen v. Central Leather Co., 246 U. S. 297; Ricaud v.
American Metal Co., 246 U. S. 304; American Banana
Co. v.. United Fruit Co., 213 U. S. 347; Underhill v.
Hernandez, 168 U. S. 250; Hewitt v. Speyer, 250 Fed. 367;
EarnLine S. S. Co. v. Sutherland S. S. Co., 254 Fed. 126;
Oliver American Trading Co. v. United States of Mexico,
5 F. (2d) 659; CompaniaM. Y. R. R., S. A. v. Bartlesville
Zinc Co., 115 Tex. 21; 275 S. W. 388. The question is
not here whether the proceeding was so conducted as to
be a wrong to our nationals under the doctrines of international law, though valid under the law of the situs of
the land. For wrongs of that order the remedy to be followed is along the channels of diplomacy. "A citizen of
one nation wronged by the conduct of another nation,
must seek redress through his own government." United
States v. Diekelman, 92 U. S. 520, 524. Cf. Ware v.
Hylton, 3 Dall. 199, 230; Young v. United States, 97 U. S.
39, 67, 68; Frelinghuysen v. Key, 110 U. S. 63, 71, 75.
Indeed, a tribunal is in existence, the International Claims
Commission, established by convention between the
United States and Mexico, to which the plaintiffs are at
liberty to submit and have long ago submitted a claim
for reparation. Convention of September 8, 1923, proclaimed March 3, 1924; 43 Stat. 1730. What concerns us
here and now is the efficacy of the decree under the land
law of Mexico at the date of its proclamation to extinguish hostile claims of ownership and pass the title to
another.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

Petitioners are content thus to limit the inquiry, if we
read their argument aright. They insist that the decree
which purports to divest them of their title, is a nullity
even by the law of Mexico, and that it is the duty of our
courts, if the nullity has been made out, to adjudge ownership accordingly. Meeting the objection that the acts of
an independent government done in its own territory are
not subject to rebxamination by the courts of another
(Underhill v. Hernandez,supra; Oetjen v. Central Leather
Co., supra; Hewitt v. Speyer, supra; Oliver American
Trading Co. v. United States of Mexico, supra), they say
that the land in controversy is now a part of the United
States; that it was brought into our domain by a treaty of
cession, the avulsion being merely the occasion that made
the treaty operative; and that in passing upon the validity
of the Mexican decree we are adjudicating a claim of title
to part of our own soil. To do this, they maintain, Is an
incident of the judicial function. Meeting the objection
that by the findings of the trial court the decree and the
proceedings leading up to it are valid, they make a twofold answer. They say that the laws formerly prevailing
in territory acquired by treaty or convention are those of
an antecedent government rather than a foreign one, and
are the subject of judicial notice. Fremont v. United
States, 17 How. 542, 557; United States v. Perot, 98 U. S.
428, 429, 430; United States v. Chaves, supra, p. 459.
They say again that if such notice is not appropriate, a
finding as to a foreign law is not solely one of fact, but one
of fact and law compounded, which may be reviewed upon
appeal, like a finding in 'certain circumstances as to the
meaning of a document. Wigmore, Evidence, vol. 5,
ยง 2558; Fitzpatrickv. InternationalRy. Co., 252 N. Y. 127,
139, 140; 169 N. E. 112; Saloshin v. Houle, 85 N. H. 126;
155 Atl. 47; Compania Transcontinentalv. Mexican Gulf
Oil Co., 292 F&I. 846; Hanley v. Donoghue, 116
U. S. 1, 6.

SHAPLEIGH v. MIER.
468

473

Opinion of the Court.

We leave for another case a delimitation of the principles thus invoked by the petitioners to clear a pathway
to review. To delimit them with accuracy is unnecessary
now, for, accepting them, provisionally, in their--fullest
length and breadth, we find the expropriating decree to
be proof against assault. The defect imputed to it is
expropriation in advance of payment or without adequate security, either payment or security being necessary
in the view of the petitioners to effect a change of title.
What the decree does provide is that there shall be "indemnity" to the owners, whoever they may be, for every
interest condemned, and that bonds of the state shall be
delivered as a medium of payment. Experts testifying
for the defendant tell us that such indemnity is adequate
under the Constitution of the Federal Republic (Constitution of Mexico, 1917, Art. 27), and algo under the Agrarian
Law of the State of Chihuahua. Cf. Sweet v. Rechel,
159 U. S. 380; Crozierv: Krupp, 224 U. S. 290, 306; Phillips v. Commissioner, 283 U. S.589, 597; Hurley v. Kincaid, 285 U. S. 95, 104. The pertinent articles are quoted
in the record, and give reasonable support to the opinion
so expressed.
Other witnesses testifying for the plain*Constitution of Mexico, 1917, Article 27:
"Private property shall not be expropriated except for reasons of
public utility and by means of indemnification.
"The Nation shall have at all times the right to impose on private
property such limitations as the public interest may demand as 'well
as the right to regulate the development of natural resources, which
are susceptible of appropriation, in order to conserve them and
equitably to distribute the public wealth. For this purpose necessary measures shall be taken to divide large landed estates; to develop small landed holdings. . ..
Private property acquired for
the said purposes shall be considered as taken for public utility ....
"During the next constitutional term, the Congress and the State
Legislatures shall enact laws, within their respective jurisdictions,
for the purpose of. carrying out the division of large landed estates,
subject to the following conditions. .
"(e) The owners shall be bound t6 receive bonds of a special issue
to guarantee the payment of the property expropriated. With this

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

tiffs, advance a different view. Opinions of the Supreme
Court of Mexico are laid before us in the briefs, and were
summarized by the witnesses, though they were not exhibits at the trial. One gives color of support to the view
advanced for the petitioners. Five of later date tend the
other way. There is testimony that by the law of Mexico
five decisions are necessary to give rise to a controlling
precedent. For anything to the contrary appearing in the
record, the claimants are still at liberty, though their estate
has been divested, to receive delivery of bonds of the State
of Chihuahua upon giving evidence of title.
In what has been written, we have assumed in favor of
the petitioners, but without intending to decide, that the
land law of Mexico in the territory now part of Texas is a
proper subject of judicial notice. The assumption helps
end in view, the Congress shall issue a law authorizing the States to
issue bonds to meet their agrarian obligations."
Agrarian Law of the State of Chihuahua:
"Article third: Owners of larger extensions of lands than those
prefixed in Article 1st, are under the obligations to dividd into fractions their lands, bnd, to this effect a term of ninety days is granted
them from the date on which this law goes into effect, so that they
may select the extension of land they can keep; and another term
of 'six months, from same date, is granted them for the formulation of the project for the division into fractions of the lapd in
excess, which project is to be submitted to the Executive of the
State for its approval attaching thereto corresponding plats of the
land together with authentic title deeds."
"Article sixth: By the mere fact that the owners, do not present
the plats to the Executive of the State in the form and terms as
provided for in the article 3rd., it shall be understood that they
refuse to divide the latifundium, into fractions, and the Executive
of the State shall carry it out (the division into fractions of*said
latifundium) by means of expropriation in accordance to provision
of subsection C, or the section VII of Article 27th, 'of the General
Constitution."

SHAPLEIGH v. MIER.
468

Opinion of the Court.

them nothing. A different case would be here if they
were able to refer us to documents or other evidence dehors the present record establishing a different rule from
that stated in the findings. In such conditions, the doctrine of judicial notice might be a crutch on which to lean.
But none of these extrinsic aids to judgment has been
placed at our disposal. Neither through any reference to
documents nor through other sources of information has
anything been added to what has been developed by the
witnesses in the pages of this record. The situation. is
thus the same, whatever the extension of the doctrine of
judicial notice, as if the record stood alone.
Heed must be given to the burden of proof, at least when
other tests are lacking. In this action to establish ownership, petitioners must recover, if at all, on the strength of
their own title. Judicial notice is unavailing to rid them
of that burden. To say that a court will take judicial notice of a fact, whether it be an event or a custom or a law
of some other government, is merely another way of saying that the usual forms of evidence will be dispensed
with if knowledge of the fact can be otherwise acquired.
Wigmore, Evidence, vol. 5, ยง 2567; Thayer, Preliminary
Treatise on the Law of Evidence, pp. 277, 308. But the
truth, of course, is that judicial notice and judicial knowledge are far from being one. The law is not so vain as
to make pretense of their identity. To the contrary, a
court that is left without knowledge of a fact after exploring to the full every channel of information must needs
decide against the litigant who counts upon the fact as
an essential of his claim. De non apparentibuset de non
existentibus eadem est ratio.
We are not persuaded upon this record, supplemented
by everything now brought to our attention, that the law
of Mexico is other than by the concurrent judgments of
the -courts below it has been here adjudged to be. That

476

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

299 U. S.

being so, .petitioners have not maintained the burden of
overcoming the decree. Their claim of title fails.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration or
decision of this case.

SHOSHONE TRIBE OF INDIANS v. UNITED
STATES.*
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 216.

Argued December 17, 18, 1936.-Decided January 4, 1937.

1. A taking of an interest in land, tortious in its origin, may be made
lawful by relation. P. 496.
2. A taking of land may be partial, not involving complete eviction.
P. 497.
3. The right to interest, or a fair equivalent, attaches automatically
to an award for damages for an expropriation of property, though
not specified in the Act of Congress permitting the suit. Id..
4. The guardianship of the United States over the property and
affairs of tribal Indians does not enable the Government to require
a tribe to which an exclusive right of occupancy has been pledged
by treaty, to share it with another tribe without just compensation. P. 497.
5. By treaty of July 3, 1868, a reservation was set apart for the
Shoshone Indians exclusively. On March 18, 1878, a band of
Arapahoes, under military escort, settled upon the land; others
did so later. These intrusions were directed or sanctioned by the
Commissioner of Indian Affairs, with intent that the settlements
should be permanent; and from .then on, in the administrative
way, he treated the two tribes as equal beneficiaries of the reservation-a view which at length found sanction in Acts of Congress
dealing with cessions of land and with the privilege of allotment
in severalty. The Shoshones, however, protested consistently
*Together with No. 328, United States v. Shoshone Tribe of Indians. Certiorari to the Court of Claims.

