OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Counsel for Parties.

299 U. S.

court may be advised. See Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co. v.
Dennis, 224 U. S. 503, 506-509; Watts, Watts & Co. v.
Unione Austriaca, 248 U. S. 9, 21; Dorchy v. Kansas,
264 U. S. 286, 289; Missouri ex rel. Wabash Ry. Co. v.
Public Service Comm'n, 273 U. S. 126, 131; Patterson
v. Alabama, 294 U. S. 600, 607. To afford this opportunity we vacate the judgment and remand the cause for
further proceedings.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

took no part in the consideration or

decision of this case.

PRAIRIE FARMER PUBLISHING CO.

ET AL.

V.

INDIANA FARMER'S GUIDE PUBLISHING CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 104. Argued November 18, 1936.-Decided December 7, 1936.
Upon the former hearing of this case, 293 U. S. 268, this Court, while
deciding that a restraint or monopoly of a business may violate
the Sherman Anti-Trust Act although confined to that part of
it which is carried on in a particular section of the country, intimated no opinioh as to whether the evidence in the case, upon the
issues of restraint or monopoly and of injury to petitioner, was
sufficient to go to the jury. P. 158.
82 F. (2d)' 704, reversed.
CERTIORARI* to review the affirmance of a judgment for
the plaintiff (respondent here) in an action for triple
damages under the Sherman Anti-Trust Act.

Mr. Maxwell v. Beghtol, with whom Messrs. Burke G.
Slaymaker, Thomas E. Murphy, and J. L. Parrish, Jr.,
were on the brief, f r petitioners.
Messrs. U. S. Lesh and Eben Lesh for respondent.
*See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

PRAIRIE CO. v. FARMER'S GUIDE CO.
156

157

Opinion of the Court.

PER CURIAM.

Respondent brought this action against petitioners for
damages caused by alleged violation of the Sherman
Anti-Trust Act. On the first trial, the court directed a
verdict in petitioners' favor -and entered judgment accordingly, which the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed.
70 F. (2d) 3. We reversed the judgment and directed
a new trial. 293 U. S. 268. That trial resulted in a
verdict against petitioners, and the judgment thereon
was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 82 F. (2d)
704. In view of petitioners' contention that the Circuit
Court of Appeals had misapplied our former opinion, we
granted certiorari.
In its opinion the .Circuit Court of Appeals stated that
the evidence on the former trial "differed little in essential
respects" from that in the present record. The court
then gave the grounds of its decision as follows:
"On the former appeal we sustained the District
Court's dismissal of the action on the ground that the
evidence failed to establish a violation of the sections
relied upon. The Supreme Court reversed the judgment,
and a new trial followed. On retrial, the duty of the
District Court to follow the instructions of the Supreme
Court was, of course, clear. It attempted so to do and
submitted the case to the jury with the results above
stated.
"The parties disagree as to the construction of the
Supreme Court decision. Both agree that it controls this
appeal.
"Appellants earnestly contend that the evidence in the
case fails to show either a conspiracy to restrain interstate commerce or the adoption of unfair or unlawful
trade practices by the appellants. This court adopted
this view on the previous trial, and the Supreme Court
differed with us and reversed -the judgment. Appellants

158

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

also argue that the evidence in this case fails to show any
recoverable damages suffered by appellee.
"We deem it unnecessary to elaborate the questions so
fully discussed in the previous opinions. As we view the
question before us it is merely a matter of applying the
Supreme Court's decision.
"We accept appellee's version which is that the complaint stated a good cause of action, and, if the facts
which the evidence on the trial tended to establish be
accepted by the jury as true, then it was justified in finding for appellee. In other words, the arguments which
appellants advance do not establish a bar to recovery,
but merely challenge the facts and the inferences which
support appellee's fact contentions. The result is that a
jury question on the issue of damages, restraint of trade,
and unfair methods, existed, and the jury settled the fact
issues by its verdict. As we construe the decision of the
Supreme Court, thisconclusion is unavoidable.
"It follows, therefore, that the judgment should be and
is hereby affirmed."
We are unable to escape the conclusion that in holding
the evidence sufficient to sustain a verdict for respondent
upon the issue of unlawful restraint or practices and
consequent injury to respondent, the Circuit Court of
Appeals felt itself controlled by our decision. That was
a misinterpretation. We expressed no opinion upon that
question. On the contrary, after dealing with the question of interstate commerce and holding that it was not
necessary that the restraint or monopoly should. affect all
the business of the kind throughout the country but
might relate to the part of it carried on in a particular
section, we said:
"We intimata no opipion whether, upon the question
of restraint or monopoly, or upon the question of injury to petitioner [respondent here] or its business, the
evidence is sufficient to warrant a verdict in its favor."
293 U. S., p. 281.

BRITISH-AMERICAN CO. v. BOARD.

159

Syllabus.

156

That question as raised by the present record should have
been determined by the Circuit Court of Appeals upon
a consideration of the evidence adduced, untrammeled by
any supposed expression upon that point by this Court.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded
to the Circuit Court of Appeals for further proceedings
in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.

MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration or
decision of this case.

BRITISH-AMERICAN
BOARD

OF

OIL PRODUCING

EQUALIZATION

OF

CO. v.
MONTANA

ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MONTANA.

No. 37.

Argued November 11, 1936.-Decided December 7, 1936.

1. The Blackfeet Indian Reservation, as existing in recent years, was
created by legislation and not by Executive Order. P. 162.
The Reservation rests upon agreements or conventions which
were ratified and given effect by Acts of Congress, c. 213, 25 Stat.
113; c. 398, 29 Stat. 321, 353, superseding earlier, temporary
Executive Orders.
2. The proviso to ยง 3 of the Act of February 28, 1891, authorizing
the leasing for mining purposes of lands occupied by Indians "who
have bought and paid for the same," is not confined to lands
acquired by Indians through the payment of a consideration in
money, but includes lands reserved for Indians in return for a
cession or surrender by them of other lands, possessions, or rights.
Pp. 163, 164.
3. The issue of "trust patents" to Blackfeet Indian allottees, containing, as the Act of June 30, 1919, requires, a reservation for the
benefit of the tribe of all minerals, including oil and gas, in or
under the allotted land, operates to carve out of such land and
create a distinct estate consisting of the minerals. This estate is
in itself land, and, being reserved for the benefit of the tribe, it is
tribal land, and is unallotted lands within the meaning of the Acts

