LIGGETT & MYERS CO. v. U. S.
Opinion of the Court.

LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO. v. UNITED
STATES.*
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 161.

Argued December 11, 14, 1936.-Decided January 4, 1937.

1. The tax imposed by § 401 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1926 is a tax
upon the manufacture, not upon the sale, of tobacco. P. 386.
2. As applied to tobacco purchased by a State for use in a hospital
owned and maintained by the State, the effect is indirect and
imposes no prohibited burden. P. 386.
3. It is unnecessary in this case to decide whether in the operation
of the hospital the State is exerting a governmental function.
P. 386.
13 F. Supp. 143; 14 F. Supp. 543, affirmed.
CERTIORARIt to review a judgment of the Court of
Claims dismissing, in three cases, suits to recover refunds
of taxes.

Mr. Henry F. Long, with whom Mr. Paul A. Dever,
Attorney General of Massachusetts, was on the brief, for
petitioners.

Mr. J. P. Jackson, with whom Solicitor General Reed,
Assistant Attorney General Jackson, and Messrs. Sewall

Key and Charles A. Horsky were on the brief, for the
United States.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
These test suits, brought in the Court of Clahns and

based upon the same facts, seek to establish the right of
some petitioner to recover the value of Internal Revenue

stamps---17.28-affixed by Liggett and Myers Tobacco
*Together with No. 162, Massachusetts v. United States; and No.
163, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co. on behalf of Massachusetts v.
United States. On writs of certiorari to the Court of Claims.
tSee Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

Company to four boxes containing ninety-six pounds of
tobacco, which it manufactured and sold to Massachusetts for free distribution to patients in Boston State
Hospital, an institution maintained by the Commonwealth
and alleged to be a government instrumentality immune
from Federal taxation.
During January, 1932, federal statutes directed"Upon all tobacco and snuff manufactured in or imported into the United States, and hereafter sold by the
manufacturer or importer, or removed for consumption
or sale, there shall be levied, collected, and paid . . . a
tax of 18 cents per pound, to be paid by the manufacturer
or importer thereof." "The Commissioner, with the approval of the Secretary, shall prescribe and publish all
needful rules and regulations for the enforcement of this*
Act." Revenue Act 1926, 44 Stat. 9, c. 27, §§ 401 (a),
1101; U. S.C., Tit. 26, §§ 700, 701, 1049, 1350, 1691.
Treasury Regulations No. 8 (1928 ed.) inforce at the
same time provided:
Art. 43. "The rate of tax on tobacco and snuff now in
force is18 cents per pound. . . . Such tax isimposed
on all chewing and smoking tobacco ....
The tax accrues on such manufactures upon removal from the factory or place where they were made, or upon sale prior to'
such removal, and is to be paid by the manufacturer
thereof by the affixing of stamps before removal ..
Art. 52. "Each package containing a statutory quantity
of tobacco or snuff (see article 45) shall, before removal
from the bonded factory premises where made, have affixed thereto the proper internal-revenue stamp or
stamps of such denomination as .will cover fully the tax
on the net weight of the contents. . . ." Art. 94. "No
manufacturer of tobacco, snuff, cigars, or cigarettes will be
permitted to close his factory with material or finished
product unstamped on hand. . . ." Art. 152. "Every
person who removes from any ifanufactory, or from any

LIGGETT & MYERS CO. v. U. S.
383

385
3

Opinion of the Court.

place where tobacco or snuff is made, any manufacturect
tobacco or snuff without the same being put up in proper
packages, or without the proper stamp for the amount of
tax thereon being affixed and canceled as required by
law; or if the same be intended for export, without the
proper export stamp being affixed; shall for each such
offense, respectively, be fined not less than $1,000 nor
more than $5,000, and be imprisoned not less than six
months nor more than two years."
The Court of Claims foundLiggett and Myers Tobacco Company is engaged in. the
business of manufacturing and dealing in tobacco. It
maintains a bonded warehouse for storing such products.
The established Internal Revenue procedure was to affix
the required stamps upon manufactured tobacco before
removal from the factory. In January, 1932, the Company received from Massachusetts an order to ,deliver
ninety-six pounds of tobacco to the Boston State Hospital, an institution owned and maintained by the Commonwealth. The Company complied by shipping from
its bonded warehouse four packages to which Revenue
stamps amounting to $17.28 had theretofore been affixed.
This was distributed to patients without charge. Hospital patients, when able, pay for treatment. The Hospital performs useful public service. A bill for $30.62price of the tobacco including tax-was paid by the
Commonwealth.
And the Co4rt held that operation of the Hospital by
the Commonwealth is not the performance of an essential
governmental finction; that such operation is not of a
strictly governmental character since it does not "embody
some kind of control over persons or things which can be
exercised only by a sovereign power." And for that reason the conclusion was that no immunity from Federal
taxation had been shown. All of the petitions were dis,
missed.

386

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

Here counsel for the Commonwealth submit that the
maintenance of the Hospital is a true governmental funci.on entitled to immunity; also that the tax in question
was laid upon the sale of the tobacco and amounted to
an imposition upon the Commonwealth. They rely upon
the principle approved in Panhandle Oil Co. v' Mississippi ex rel. Knox, 277 U. S. 218, 222; Indian Motocycle
Co. v. United.States, 283 U. S. 570, 578; and Graves v.
Texas Co., 298 U. S. 393.
For the United States it is said the tax was upon the
manufacture of the tobacco with duty of payment postponed until removal or sale, whichever first occurred;
consequently, there was no direct burden imposed upon
the State; the effect was incidental, indirect, and permissible within the doctrine approved by Cornell v. Coyne,
192 U. S. 418, and Wheeler Lumber B. & S. Co. v. United
States, 281 U. S. 572, 579.
If, in reality, the tax was upon the manufacture of tobacco, then, as adequately pointed out by Cornell v.
Coyne, supra, the effect upon the purchaser was indirect
and imposed no prohibited burden. See Willcuts v.
Bunn, 282 U. S. 216, 230, 234. We think that was the
true nature of the exaction, and this renders unnecessary
any consideration of the theory accepted by the Court
below.
The tax is laid upon each pound of manufactured tobacco irrespective of intrinsic value or price obtained
upon sale. The goods may be disposed of at any price
without affecting the amount of the tax; that does not
vary. Always the manufacturer must pay 18 cents upon
each pound-no more, no less. True the limit of time
for making payment is when the product is sold or removed, but this is a privilege designed to mitigate the
burden; it indicates no purpose to impose the tax upon
either sale or removal. Apparently the practice is to affix
the required stamps without regard to sale or removal.

HAUGE v. CHICAGO.
Syllabus.

383

See Cornell v. Coyne, supra; American Mfg. Co. v. St.
Louis, 250 U. S. 459; Wheeler Lumber B. & S. Co. v.

United States, supra.
Indian Motocycle Co. v. United States, supra, much
relied upon by petitioner, considered a tax of five per

centum of the price oltained upon sale of the article; it
rose or fell according to the amount received by the seller.
From the outset the excise there under scrutiny had been

considered by Congressional Committees and the administrative bureau as a sales tax. Here the administrative
provisions of the taxing Act indicate that Congress regarded'it as an excise on manufacture. And this view is
strengthened by provisions of the Treasury Regulations
designed to carry the statute into effect.
For the reasons indicated, the judgment below must be
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration or
decision of this case.

HAUGE v. CHICAGO.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 175. Argued December 11, 1936.-Decided January 4, 1937.
An ordinance of Chicago requires that commodities sold in load lots
'by weight and delivered within the city be weighed by. a public
weighmaster, and that a certificate of weight, issued by such
weighmaster,. be delivered, to the purchaser or consignee by the
driver or,person in charge of the load, before any of the' commodity is removed from the vehicle. It was conceded thn the
ordinance' Was not unreasonable as applied to dealers operating
.coal yards within the city. As construed and applied to one .de•livering within the city coal brought by truck from mines outside,
however, the ordinance necessitated unloading and reweighing
within the city, even though the coal had been Weighed at the
mines on state-tested scales. Held, not repugnant to the Fourteenth-Amendment-. P. 392."
363 Ill. 125; 1 N.E. (2d) 396, affirmed.

