232

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

299 U. S.

In the absence of federal legislation giving priority
to a claim for an assessment of stockholders' liability
over other debts, or a lien upon the assets of a deceased
stockholder's estate, or a special remedy, the claim is
not entitled to distribution otherwise than as specified in a nondiscriminatory statute of the domicile. The
judgment is

Affirmed.

MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration or

decision of this case.
AMERICAN TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH CO. ET AL.
v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 74. Argued November 16, 17, 1936.-Decided December 7, 1936.
1. A court cannot substitute its own discretion for that of administrative officers acting within their powers. Mere error or unwisdoam is not equivalent to abuse of discretion. P. 236.
2. Statements made in argument by counsel for the Government in
behalf of the Federal Communications Commission, which were
reduced to writing and filed in the case at the suggestion of the
Court, and which declared the meaning of certain of the regulations
prescribed by the Commission as part of a uniform system of accounts for telephone companies, under the Communications Act of
1934,--held an administrative construction binding upon the Commission in its future dealings with the companies. P. 241.
3. Rules in a uniform system of accounts for telephone companies
subject to the Communications Act of 1934, require that the property investments of an accounting company shall be entered in
balance sheet accounts, under the general title of "Investments,"
at "original cbst," a term which, as applied to plant, franchise, patent rights, etc., is defined to mean the cost, actual or estimated,
of the property at the time when it was first dedicated to the public
use, whether by the accounting company or a predecessor public
utility; the differences between the amounts actually paid by the
accounting company in acquiring property from predecessor utili-

A. T. & T. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
232

233

Syllabus.

ties and this "original cost" (actual or estimated) of the property
shall be recorded in another account entitled "Telephone Plant
Acquisition Adjustment," and shall be disposed of, written off, or
amortized in such manner as the Commission may direct. Held:
(1) That, in the light of administrative construction, the regulation does not mean that the differences entered in the Adjustment Account must be written off completely; on the contrary,
amounts in the Adjustment Account which represent investment
by the accounting company in assets of continuing value are to be
retained in the account until such assets cease to exist or are retired, and provision is to be made for their amortization. Pp. 237,
240.
(2) Reservation of ultimate disposition of items in this Adjustment Account to await further inquiry and direction by the Commission does not render the classification arbitrary or amount to a
departure from the statutory power to prescribe the "forms" of
accounts for classes of carriers rather thanfor individuals. P. 242.
(3) As to property acquired from other utilities, the companies
are not prevented from recovering depreciation expense which they
actually incur, on their actual investment, nor required to base
depreciation charges on cost to prior owners. The provisions of
the regulations as to depreciation or amortization comply with
§ 220 (b) of the Act. P. 242.
(4) The requirement that an estimate of the original cost to a
predecessor utility shall be recorded when the actual cost is unknown, is not arbitrary; nor does it expose the accounting company to the hazard of criminal prosecution. P. 244.
(5) To subject an accounting company or its officers to criminal
prosecution for violation of the Act, the violation must have been
knowing and wilful. Communications Act, §§ 501, 502. P. 245.
(6) Should duties imposed by the rules on an accounting company be uncertain, it may obtain clarifying instructions from the
Commission. P. 245.
4. Another of the instructions in the system of accounts above mentioned declares: "All charges to the accounts prescribed in this
classification for telephone plant, income, operating revenues, and
operating expenses shall be just and reasonable and any payments
by the company in excess of such just and reasonable charges shall
be included in account 323, 'Miscellaneous income charges.'" Held:
(1) The purpose of this requirement is to prevent the padding
of the accounts by charges knowingly and wilfully entered in excc,'s
of what is just and reasonable. Only if knowingly and wilfully so
entered is any penalty prescribed by the Act. P. 246.

234

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Counsel for Parties.

299 U. S.

(2) The requirement is not arbitrary. P. 246.
(3) The standard "just and reasonable" is not unduly vague.
Id.
5. The rules require that property "used in telephone service at the
date of the balance-sheet" go into one account; property "held for
imminent use in telephone service" under a definite plan for such
use into another; and other property held for future use not imminent or definite into a third account which covers "miscellaneous
physical property." Held not open to objection on the ground of
vagueness. Property held for imminent use in telephone service
and under a definite plan will include spare plants kept in reserve
as a measure of prudent administration. Property held in present
telephone use comes very near to defining itself. If particular
situations shall develop ambiguity or doubt, the Commission will
be avJilable for clarifying instructions. P. 247.
6. The evidence does not show that the order of the Commission, by
requiring revision of accounts, lays an unreasonable burden of
expense upon the telephone companies. Id.
14 F. Supp. 121, affirmed.

from a decree which dismissed, in part, a bill
brought against the United States and the Federal Communications Commission by numerous telephone companies to set aside an order of the Commission prescribing
a uniform system of accounts. Other telephone companies
intervened as plaintiffs and the National Association of
Railroad and Utilities Commissioners intervened as defendant. There was no cross-appeal from that part of
the decree Which was favorable to the plaintiffs.
APPEAL

Mr. William D. Mitchell, with whom Messrs. C. M.
Bracelen,Alan J. McBa gn, Charles T. Russell, and Edward
L. Blackman were on the brief, for American Telephone
& Telegraph Co. et al., appellants.
Mr. Allen T. Kots, with whom Mr. G. Schuyler Tarbell,
Jr., was on the brief, for Ohio Associated Telephone Co.
et al., appellants.
Assistant Attorney General Dickinson, with whom
Solicitor General Reed and Mr. Charles H. Weston were
on the brief, for the United States, appellee.

A. T. & T. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
232

Opinion of the Court.

Messrs. Hampson Gary, Frank Roberson, and IV. D.
Humphrey submitted for the Federal Communications
Commission, appellee.
Mr. John E. Benton, with whom Mr. Clyde S. Bailey
was on the brief, for the National Association of Railroad
and Utilities Commissioners, appellee.
MR.
Court.

JUSTICE CARDozo

delivered the opinion of the

This suit was brought in the United States District
Court for the Southern District of New York to set aside
an order of the Federal Communications Commission
prescribing a uniform system of accounts for telephone
companies subject to the Communications Act of 1934.
Act of June 19, 1934, c. 652, 48 Stat. 1064; 47 U. S. C.
§ 151. The plaintiffs are forty-four telephone companies,
thirty-seven of them members of the Bell System, and
seven of them members of another group. The defendants are the United States and the Federal Communications Commission, with whom the National Association of Railroad and Utilities Commissioners was
afterwards joined, intervening as the representative of
the regulatory commissions of forty-six states in support
of the contested order'
The Communications Act of 1034 provides (§ 220) that
"the Commission may, in its discretion, prescribe the
forms of any and all accounts, records, and memoranda"
to be kept by carriers subject to the Act, "including the
accounts, records, and memoranda of the movement of
traffic, as well as of the receipts and expenditures of
moneys." This is a power that had previously been
lodged with the Interstate Commerce Commission-Interstate Commerce Act, § 20 (5)-which framed -9,set
of rules for telephone companies to take effect January 1,
1913, and a revised set of rules effective January 1, t931Z.

236

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

After the transfer of jurisdiction over telephone companies from the Interstate Commerce Commission to the
Federal Communications Commission in 1934, the new
Commission prepared a "draft of a Uniform System of
Accounts," which was considered at a conference with
representatives of the companies and of the state commissions. The outcome of the conference was the order
of June 19, 1935, to take effect January 1, 1936, which is
the subject of this suit.
The plaintiffs having moved for an interlocutory injunction, the cause was heard, in accordance with the requirement of the statute-47 U. S. C. § 402 (a); 28 U. S. C.
§ 47-by a District Court of three judges, the affidavits in
support of the motion and against it being also submitted
for and against the final decree. Five provisions of the
order were attacked as arbitrary. The District Court
sustained two objections of minor importance, which are
not in controversy now, and overruled the others. One
of these was directed to the "original cost" rule; the second to a provision as to "just and reasonable" charges;
the third to a classification dividing plants in present use
from those held for use thereafter. The court dismissed
the bill as to the objections overruled, stating in an opinion the reasons for its action. 14 F. Supp. 121. The case
is here unon appeal. 48 Stat. 1064, 1093, § 402 (a); 47
U. S. C. § 402 (a); 38 Stat. 219, 220; 28 U. S. C. §§ 47,
47 (a).
This court is not at liberty to substitute its own discretion for that of administrative officers who have kept
within the bounds of their administrative powers. To
show that these have been exceeded in the field of action
here involved, it is not enough that the prescribed system
of accounts shall appear to be unwise or burdensome or
inferior to another. Error or unwisdom is not equivalent
to abuse. What has been ordered must appear to be
"so entirely at odds with fundamental principles of cor-

A. T. & T. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
232

Opinion of the Court.

rect accounting" (Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v. United
States, 231 U. S. 423, 444) as to be the expression of a whim
rather than an exercise of judgment. Norfolk & Western
Ry. Co. v. United States, 287 U. S. 134, 141; Kansas City
Southern Ry. Co. v. United States, supra, p. 456. Then
too, in gauging rationality, regard must steadily be had
to the ends that a uniform system of accounts is intended
to promote. "The object of requiring such accounts to
be kept in a uniform way and to be open to the inspection of the Commission is not to enable it to regulate the
affairs of the corporations not within its jurisdiction, but
to be informed concerning the business methods of the
corporations subject to the act that it may properly regulate such matters as are really within its jurisdiction."
Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Goodrich Transit Co.,
224 U. S. 194, 211; cf. Kansas City Southern,Ry. Co. v.
United States, supra, p. 445. With these principles in
mind, we proceed to consider separately the regulations
and instructions now challenged as unlawful.
First: The Original Cost Provisions.
Four new balance sheet accounts, each of them a subtitle of the general title of "Investments," must be kept
under the new system. The first (100.1) is described as
Telephone Plant in Service; the second (100.2), Telephone Plant under Construction; the third (100.3),
Property held for Future Telephone Use; and the fourth
(100.4), Telephone Plant Acquisition Adjustment. Account 100.1 "shall include the original cost [defined by
Instruction 3 (S.1)1 ot the company's property used
in telephone service at the date of the balance sheet."
Account 100.2 "shall include the original cost [as so defined] of construction of telephone plant not completed
ready for service" at such date. Account 100.3 "shall include the original cost [so defined] of property owned and
held for imminent use in telephone service under a definite plan for such use." The term "original cost" as

238

OCTOBER TERM, 193aL
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

appearing in these rules receives, under Instruction 3
(S. 1), a special definition. "'Original cost' or 'cost,' as
applied to telephone plant, franchises, patent rights, and
right-of-way, means the actual money cost of (or the
current money value of any consideration other than
money exchanged for) property at the time when it was
first dedicated to the public use, whether by the accounting company or by a predecessor public utility." If
actual costs are unknown, estimates are to take their
place. Instruction 21 (B). From all this it follows that
the sum of the three accounts which represent the original cost of property acquired by the accounting company from other telephone utilities, may be less or greater
than the investment in such property by the accounting company itself. The difference is taken care of by
account 100.4, Telephone Plant Acquisition Adjustment.*
The same rule provides in a subdivision designated (C)
that "the amounts recorded in this account [i. e. 100.4]
with respect to each property acquisition shall be disposed of, written off, or provision shall be made for the
amortization thereof in such manner as this Commission
may direct."
Before explaining the appellants' objections to these
provisions as to cost, we may pause to indicate the reasons that led to their adoption. To a great extent, the
telephone business as conducted in the United States is
*

"This account shall 'include the difference between (a) the amount

of money actually paid (or the current money value of any consideration other than money exchanged) for telephone plant acquired,
plus preliminary expenses incurred in connection with the acquisition;
and (b) the original cost (note instruction 3-S. 1) of such plant, governmental franchises and similar rights acquired, less the amounts
of reserve requirements for depreciation and amortization of the
property acquired, and amounts of contributions to the predecessor
company or companies for construction and acquisition of such propercy. If the actual original cost is not known, the entries in this
arcount shall be based upon an estimate of such cost."

A. T. & T. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
232

Opinion of the Court.

that of a far flung system of parent, subsidiary and
affiliated companies. The Bell system is represented in
this case by thirty-seven companies, the American Telephone and Telegraph Company at their head. Seven
other companies, intervening as a group, represent a
second and smaller system. Purchases are frequently
made by a member or members of a system from affiliates
or subsidiaries, and with comparative infrequency from
strangers. At times obscurity or confusion has been born
of such relations. There is widespread belief that transfers between affiliates or subsidiaries complicate the task
of rate-making for regulatory commissions and impede
the search for truth. Buyer and seller in such circumstances may not be dealing at arm's length, and the price
agreed upon between them may be a poor criterion of
value. Dayton Power & Light Co. v. Public Utilities
Comm'n of Ohio, 292 U. S. 290, 295; Western Distributing Co. v. Public Service Comm'n of Kansas, 285 U. S.
119; Smith v. Illinois Bell Telephone Co., 282 U. S. 133.
Even if the property has been acquired by treaty with
an independent utility or a member of a rival system,
there is always a possibility that it is nuisance value
only-and not market or intrinsic value for the uses of
the business-that has dictated the price paid. Accordingly the work of the Commission may be facilitated by
spreading on the face of the accounts a statement of the
cost as of the time when the property to be valued was
first acquired by a utility or dedicated to the public use.
The same considerations show why the regulations do not
direct that the inquiry as to original cost shallbe carried
even farther back, so as to cover, for illustration, the cost
to manufacturers who may have sold to the first utility.
In the process of analysis, inquiry is halted at the point
where it ceases to be fruitful.
With this explanatory background we can now go forward with understanding to a statement of the objceiicns
to the order and a determination of their : .

OCTOBER TERM,. 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

(a) The companies object that by the "original cost"
provisions of the order they are prevented "from recording their actual investment in their accounts" with the
result that the accounts do not fairly exhibit their financial situation to shareholders, investors, tax collectors and
others.
The argument is that account 100.4, representing the
difference between original and present cost, is not to
be reckoned, either wholly or in part, as a statement of
existing assets, but must be written off completely. The
Commission is charged, we are told, with a mandatory
duty to extinguish the entire balance recorded in that account, its presence under the title of "investments" having the effect of a misleading label. To give support to
that conception of official duty, they rely on subdivision
(C), which provides, as we have seen, that "the amounts
recorded in this account with respect to each property
acquisition shall be disposed of, written off, or provision
shall be made for the amortization thereof in such manner as this Commission may direct."
If subdivision (C) had the meaning thus imputed to it,
there would be force in the contention that the effect of
the order is to distort in an arbitrary fashion the value of
the assets. But the imputed meaning is not the true one.
The Commission is not under a duty to write off the
whole or any part of the balance in 100.4, if the difference
between original and present cost is a true increment of
value. On the contrary, only such amount will be written
off as appears, upon an application for appropriate directions, to be a fictitious or paper increment. This is made
clear, if it might otherwise be doubtful, by administrative
construction. Thus, the Commission's chief-accountant
testified that by the proper interpretation of account
100.4, amounts therein "would be disposed of, after the
character of the item had been determined, in a manner
consistent with the general rules underlying the uniforr

A. T. & T. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
232

Opinion of the Court.

system of accounts for the distribution of expenditures,
according to their character, to operating expenses, income, surplus, or remain an investment." Other witnesses gave testimony in substance to the same effect.
But even more decisive are statements made by counsel,
appearing for the Government and arguing the case before us. To avoid the chance of misunderstanding and to
give adequate assurance to the companies as to the practice to be followed, we requested the Assistant AttorneyGeneral to reduce his statements in that regard to writing
in behalf of the Commission. He did this and informs us
that "the Federal Communications Commission construes
the provisions of Telephone Division Order No. 7-C, issued June 19, 1935, pertaining to account 100.4" as meaning "that amounts included in account 100.4 that are
deemed, after a fair consideration of all the circumstances,
to represent an investment which the accounting company has made in assets of continuing value will be retained in that account until such assets cease to exist or
are retired; and, in accordance with paragraph (C) of
account 100.4, provision will be made for their amortization."
We accept this declaration as an administrative construction binding upon the Commission in its future
dealings with the companies. Hicklin v. Coney, 290
U. S.169, 175; Addy Co. v. United States, 264 U. S.239,
245. The case in that respect is sharply distinguished
from New York Edison Co. v. Maltbie, 244 App. Div.
685, 281 N. Y. S. 223; id., 271 N. Y. 103, 2 N. E. (2d)
277, where under rules prescribed by the Public Service
Commission of New York, there was an inflexible requirement that an account similar in some aspects to
100.4 be written off in its entirety out of surplus, whether
the value there recorded was genuine or false. The administrative construction now affixed to the contested
order devitalizes the objection that the difference between

242

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

present value and original cost is withdrawn from recognition as a legitimate investment.
We are not impressed by the argument that the classification is to be viewed as arbitrary because the fate of
any item, its ultimate disposition, remains in some degree
uncertain until the Commission has given particular directions with reference thereto. By being included in
the adjustment account, it is classified as provisionally
a true investment, subject to be taken out of that account and given a different character if investigation by
the Commission shows it to be deserving of that treatment. Such a reservation does not amount to a departure
from the statutory power to fix the forms of accounts for
"classes" of carriers rather than for individuals. The
forms of the accounts ,re fixed, and fixed by regulations
of adequate generality. What disposition of their content may afterwards be suitable upon discovery that particular items have been carried at an excessive figure
must depend upon evidentiary circumstances, difficult to
define or catalogue in advance of the event. If once there
was any need for explanation more precise than that afforded by the order, it is now supplied, we think, by an
administrative construction, which must be read into the
order as supplementary thereto.
(b) The companies object that by the provisions as to
"original cost" they are prevented "from recovering depreciation expense, which they actually incur, on their
actual investment," and are required "to base depreciation charges on the cost to a prior owner."
This objection, like the one last considered, has ;-,
origin in the belief that what is recorded in "telephone
plant acquisition adjustment" must inevitably be written
off, and is not subject to the treatment appropriate to
genuine assets.
Here again the construction of the regulations by the
Commission itself is enough to dispel the fear that in
their practical operation they will become instruments

A. T. & T. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
232

Opinion of the Cqurt.

of hardship., Without dwelling on the testimony, we
content ourselves with a quotation from the statement
filed by counsel at the conclusion of the argument. The
Commission there informs us that "when amounts included in account 100.4 are deemed, after a fair consideration of all the circumstances, to be definitely attributable
to depreciable telephone plant, provision will be made for
amortization of such amounts through operating expenses,
through the medium of either account 613 [which covers
the amortization of intangible property] or account 675
[which includes all operating expenses not properly
chargeable to other accounts]."
Obviously account 675 was inserted as a catch-all to
cover previous omissions. We do not need to inquire
whether under an ideal system of accounting the amounts
to be amortized would be chargeable to an account entitled in some other way. It is enough that by the ruling
of the Commission they will find a lodgement here, with
an appropriate entry betokening their meaning. A system of accounts may be awkward or imperfect, and yet
not so "arbitrary and outrageous" (Norfolk & Western
Ry. Co. v. United States, supra, p. 143) as to justify a
court in restraining its enforcement.
Appellants insist that amortization is an afterthought
as applied to the account in controversy, and that there
must be an amendment of the rules, if the Commission
is to resort to such a process. We read the record otherwise. In setting up the amortization reserve account
(172), the rules expressly provide that "it shall also be
credited with any amounts which the Commission may
authorize under a plan to amortize the balance in account
100.4, Telephone Plant Acquisition Adjustment."
In the same connection, the point is made that § 220
(b) of the Act requires more specific directions as to depreciation or amortization than the Commission has supplied. By that section, "the Commission shall, as soon
as practicable, prescribe . . . the classes of property for

244

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

which depreciation charges may be properly included
under operating expenses." No objection is made that the
directions are not sufficiently specific as to account 100.1,
Telephone Plant in Service. The objection is confined to
account 100.4. But one of the very reasons for establishing that account is that in advance of inquiry by the Commission as to the property there included it is impracticable to determine what portion of it may properly be
subjected to charges of this nature. When that inquiry
has been completed, the Commission will be in possession
of the necessary data. Provision will then be made for
amortization of any amounts in the account that may
properly be classified as investment in depreciable property. The label is unimportant, whether depreciation
or amortization, if the substance of allowance is adequately preserved.
(c) The companies object that by the "original cost"
provisions of the order they are required, where the actual
cost is unknown, to record an estimate of cost, and that
this requirement is an arbitrary one, mutilating their
accounts qnd exposing them to the hazard of criminal
prosecution.
What was ordered by the Commission in that behalf is
expressly authorized by the statute with the result that
to invalidate the order will be to invalidate the statute
also. By § 213 (c) of the Communications Act of 1934 it
is provided that "if any part of such cost cannot be determined from accounting or other records, the portion of
the property for which such cost cannot be determined
shall be reported to the Commission; and, if the Commission shall so direct, the original cost thereof shall be estimated in such manner as the Commission may prescribe."
In the vast majority of cases, original cost will be
ascertainable from the records of the previous owners. If
these have been lost or are not available or trustworthy,
the order makes provision for the substitution of an estimate. Difficulties in the making of such an estimate are

A. T. & T. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
232

Opinion of the Court.

indicated by the companies. We doubt whether in any
instance they will be found to be insuperable, but if they
shall ever prove to be so, means will be at hand whereby
an avenue of escape from injustice will be opened without

resort to the drastic remedy of declaring the order void.
Estimates are at times inevitable in any system of accounts. Even under the system previously in vogue, the
total purchase price, which was entered in an account
known as "telephone plant," was subdivided into a series
of accounts covering respectively pole lines, cable, aerial
wire, and other classes, and distributed among them. If
the price was a lump sum, there was need to resort to
estimates in the process of subdivision. So, also, estimates were always necessary upon the retirement of plant
or equipment acquired at varying dates, unless the articles retired were so clearly identified that the dates of
acquisition and the prices then paid for each of them were
susceptible of ascertainment upon the face of the accounts themselves. All that can be said of the present
regulations is that they make the occasion for estimates
more frequent than in former years and the process more
involved. The difference in degree is not proved to be
so great as to drag nullity in its train. If instances shall
occur in which a company is unable to make an intelligent
estimate with even approximate correctness, that exceptional event will justify resort to the Commission for
particular instructions. In no event is there a substantial hazard of criminal prosecution. To subject the company or its officers to prosecution for a crime the violation of the Act must have been knowing and wilful.
Communications Act of 1934, §§ 501, 502; Hygrade Provision Co. v. Sherman, 266 U. S. 497, 502, 503; United
States v. Murdock, 290 U. S. 389. Penalties do not follow upon innocent mistakes.
(d) The companies object also that even when property recorded in the adjustment account (100.4) is recognized by the Commission as a continuing investment,

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

there will be difficulty in (letermining the amount to
be written out of that account when the property is withdrawn. No reason is apparent why this difficulty should
be Any greater than it would be if the same property had
been recorded in a single plant account without separation of the original cost from the cost at later dates.
However that may be, there is ample provision in the
rules for clarifying instructions whenever duty is uncertain.
Second: The provisions for just and reasonable charges.
The companies object to the following instructions,
described as 2 (B. 1): "All charges to the accounts prescribed in this classification for telephone plant, income,
operating revenues, and operating expenses shall be just
and reasonable and any payments by the company in
excess of such just and reasonable charges shall be included in account 323, 'Miscellaneous income charges.'"
The purpose of this requirement is to prevent the pad(ling of the accounts by charges knowingly and wilfully
entered in excess of what is just and reasonable. Only
if knowingly and wilfully so entered is any penalty prescribed therefor. United States v. Murdock, supra.
There is surely nothing arbitrary in establishing a standard of behavior so consistent with good morals. On the
contrary, the need for such a standard has been made
manifest for years as the result of intercorporate relations that are matters of common knowledge. Dayton
Power & Light Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n of Ohio,
supra; Lindheimer v. Illinois Bell Telephone Co., 292
U. S. 151. "The Commission must have power to prevent evasion of its orders and detect in any formal compliance or in the assignment of expenses a 'possible concealment of forbidden practices.' " Smith v. Interstate
Commerce Commission, 245 U. S. 33, 45. In such a context the standard of the "just and reasonable" is not
unduly vague. Nash v. United States, 229 IT. S. 373, 377;
International Harvester Co. v. Kentucky, 234 U. S. 216,

A. T. & T. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
232

Opinion of the Court.

223; United States v. Cohen Grocery Co., 255 U. S. 81,
92; United States v. Wurzbach, 280 U. S. 396,.399; People
v. Mancuso, 255 N. Y. 463, 470; 175 N. E. 177. "Moreover . . . since the statutes require a specific intent to
defraud in order to encounter their prohibitions, the
hazard of prosecution which appellants fear loses whatever substantial foundation it might have in the absence
of such a requirement." Hygrade Provision Co. v.
Sherman, supra.
Third: The classification of plant- as used in present
service or held for use thereafter.
Property "used in telephone service at the date of the
balance-sheet" goes into account 100.1; property "held
for imminent use in telephone service" under a definite
plan for such use goes into account 100.3; and other property held for future use not imminent or definite goes into
still another account, 103, which covers "miscellaneous
physical property."
The companies object that this classification is so vague
as to be arbitrary. We do not look at it that way.
Property held for imminent use in telephone service and
under a definite plan will include spare plants kept in
reserve as a measure of prudent administration. Such
uses had consideration by this court in a recent opinion.
Columbus Gas & Fuel Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n of
Ohio, 292 U. S.398. Property held in present telephone
use comes very near to defining itself. If particular
situations shall develop ambiguity orIdoubt, the Commission will be available for clarifying instructions.
Fourth: The evidence does not show that the expense
of revising the accounts will lay so heavy a burden upon
the companies as to overpass the bounds of reason.
The decree should be affirmed, and it is so ordered.
Affirmed.
Ma. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration or
decision of this case.

