DUKE POWER CO. v. GREENWOOD CO.
Syllabus.

248

& Co. v. Unione Austriaca, 248 U. S. 9, 21. Benefit and
hardship will be set off, the one against the other, and
upon an ascertainment of the balance discretionary judgment will be exercised anew.
In each suit, the decree of the Court of Appeals is reversed, the order of the District Court vacated, and the
cause remanded to the District Court to determine the
motion for a stay in accordance with the principles laid
down in this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS
MR. JUSTICE STONE

concurs in the result.

took no part in the consideration or

decision of these cases.

DUKE POWER CO.

ET AL.

v. GREENWOOD COUNTY

ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 32.

Argued November 10, 1936.

Decided December 14, 1936.

1. A decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals remanding the cause to
the District Court to be considered and determined anew, imust

vacate the decree appealed from. P. 262.
2. Where it appears upon appeal that supervening facts require a
retrial in the light of a changed situation, the appellate court should
vacate the decree and revest the court below with jurisdiction of
the cause, to the end that issues may be property framed and the
retrial had. P. 267.
3. Upon an appeal from a decree of the District Court enjoining
the performance of a contract it was suggested to the Circuit
Court of Appeals that a new contract had been made superseding
the old one, and upon that ground the court was requested to

remand the cause with leave to amend the pleadings and 'for a
trial or other disposition on such amended pleadings. The cause

260

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Counsel for Parties.

299 U. S.

was thereupon remanded, but, in consequence of the ambiguity of
the remanding order, the District Court considered that it was
not revested with jurisdiction of the entire cause but that its
former decree was still effective. It therefore deemed the competent evidence on the new trial to be restricted to the effect of
the new contract and the extent, if any, to which its provisions
might require a reversal of the former determination, and ended
with a decree simply adjudging that the former decree should not
be set aside. Upon a certification of these proceedings, including
the new evidence that had been received or rejected, the Circuit
Court' of Appeals treated its order as having reopened the entire
cause, and ignoring the lacts that the. District Court had not so
regarded it and that the pleadings had not been amended and the
case properly retried, proceeded then to pass upon the merits,
reversed the decree appealed from, and directed a dismissal of the
bill for want of equity. Held that both courts had failed to act in
accordance with the standards of proper procedure, and that the
decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals should be reversed and the
cause remanded with directions that the decrees entered by the.
District Court be vacated, and that the parties be permitted to
amend their pleadings in the light of the existing facts, and that
the cause be retried upon the issues thus presented. Pp. 267-268.
81 F. (2d) 986, reversed.
10 F. Supp. 854; 12 id. 70, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 298 U. S. 651, to review Adecree of the Circuit Court of Appeals reversing a decree of injunction, and
directing that the bill be dismissed, in a suit brought by
two electric power companies to prevent a county from
constructing and operating a local electric power plant
with the aid of federal funds, and to prevent Ickes, intervener-defendant, from lending the funds as Federal Emergency Administrator of Public Works.
Messrs. W. S. O'B. Robinson, Jr., and Newton D. Baker,
with whom Messrs. R. T. Jackson, W. R. Perkins, H. J.
Haynsworth, J. H. Marion, and W. B. McGuire, Jr., were
on the brief, for petitioners.
Messrs. W. H. Nicholson and D. W. Robinson, Jr., for
Greenwood County et al., respondents.

DUKE POWER CO. v. GREENWOOD CO.
259

261

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Jerome N. Frank and Solicitor General Reed, with
whom Attorney General Cummings, Assistant Attorney
General Morris, and Messrs. Alexander Holtzoff, John W.
Scott, Edward H. Foley, Jr., Robert E. Sher, and William
J. Dempsey were on the brief, for Harold L..Ickes, Federal
Emergency Administrator of Public Works, respondent.
PER CURIAM.

This case presents irregularities in practice which we
think should not be overlooked.
The suit was brought by electric utility corporations
to restrain the defendants, Greenwood County, South
Carolina, and its officials, from constructing and operatifng a local electric power plant and from issuing bonds
and making contracts for that purpose. Harold L. Ickes,
as Federal Emergency Administrator of Public Works,
was permitted to intervene. He filed an answer showing
an agreement dated December, 8, 1934 (after the commencement of the suit) between the Government and
Greenwood County for the making-of a loan by the Government to aid the County in financing its project upon
stated terms and conditions. 'By amended and supplemental -bill, plaintiffs challenged the constitutional authority of the Federal Government to make the loan.
Defendants' motion to dismiss for want of equity was
denied. 10 F. Supp. 854. Defendants answered, evideuice was taken and a final decree was entered' permanently enjoining defendants from carrying out the contract of December 8, 1934, and the defendant Ickes from
advancing to the County, and the County from receiving,
any federal funds in furtherance of the project. 12 F.
Supp. 70. Defendants appealed to the Circuit Court of
Appeals.
Appellant Ickes informed the appellate court that, since
the taking of the appeal, the contract of December 8,
1934, had been terminated and a new agreement substi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

tuted, and that the terms and conditions of the earlier
contract, which had been held by the District Court to
be in excess of the authority of the County, had been
eliminated. Mr. Ickes asked that the cause be remanded
to the District Court, with leave to the parties to amend
their pleadings in accordance with the facts "and for a
trial or other disposition of the cause on such amended
pleadings." The Circuit Court of Appeals heard argument upon that motion and made the following order:
"The above entitled cause coming on to be heard on
the motion of Harold L. Ickes, Federal Emergency Administrator of Public Works, one of the appellants, that
the said cause be remanded to the District Court ,for the.
Western District of South Carolina to the end that that
court may reconsider its decision in the light of the contract entered into between the United States and the
County of Greenwood, South Carolina, dated November
30, 1935:
"It is ordered that said cause be remanded to the said
District Court to the end that that court may reconsider
its decision in the light of the said contract and may take
such further action as may be appropriate in the premises.
"The court below is requested to hear the cause thus
remanded with all convenient dispatch and to certify his
findings of fact and conclusions of law to this court as
soon as possible, to the end that the cause may be heard
by this court upon appeal on the first Monday in January 1936 in accordance with the agreement of counsel
this day made in open court to the effect that they would
press fo a speedy hearing of the cause and docket the
appeal from the decision of the court below for hearing
on the date aforesaid without reference to the rules regulating appeals, filing and printing of briefs, etc."
The order was ambiguous. While without a vacatur of
the final decree the District Court could not reconsider the
cause and determine it anew, the Circuit Court of Appeals

DUKE POWER CO. v. GREENWOOD CO.
259

263

Opinion of the Court.

did not in terms vacate the decree. In consequence the
order was not understood either by the parties or by the
District Court, and the* subsequent proceedings were
extraordinary. The pleadings were not amended. The
District Court was in doubt as to the extent to which testimony should be taken. Counsel for defendant Ickes
took the position that they should not be limited to proof
of the new contract, but should be permitted to have "a
rehearing of the issues raised by the pleadings in this case
filed prior to the entry of the final decree in so far as
those issues concern the power policy of the Administrator." They added that there was not time "to file supplemental pleadings, as would be done were this case to proceed in the usual course." Plaintiffs' counsel insisted that
as the term at which the original decree was entered had
expired, there could be no rehearing and accordingly objected to the reception of evidence. They further
objected to any evidence not relating to new matter which
had arisen since the original decree. The District Court
stated that it would take all the evidence offered, but subject to plaintiffs' objections, reserving its ruling as to
admissibility. Evidence was then taken. Mr. Ickes was
examined and cross-examined. Plaintiffs moved to strike
out statements made by him relating to matters not arising since the decree. At plaintiffs' instance, a press
release of the Public Works Administration was placed in
the record as a part of the cross-examination. A letter
from the Deputy Administrator of the bureau was introduced by plaintiffs subject to defendants' objection. This
paper was deemed by the court to be irrelevant "to any
issue presented by the order remanding the case" and was
placed in the record to show plaintiffs' offer ot proof "in
event that the Court of Appeals should rule that defendants are enfitled. to a rehearing of the original issues
which were passed up~n and determined by the final decree heretofore entered in this case." A book entitled

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

"Back to Work," published by Mr. Ickes, was offered by
defendants and admitted subject to plaintiffs' objactions.
Greenwood County, and its fii.ance 'oard, offered witnesses and resolutions to show the action taken by the
County.
Defendants then moved that the record on appeal be
supplemented by adding all the testimony "offered, heard
or excluded by the court," together with the exhibits.,
Tb. motion was granted. Defendants further moved
that their answers "be taken as amended and supplemented in accordance with the above mentioned proof
and evidence." That motion was denied. Defendants
then moved that the answers of the defendant "be taken
as supplemented and/or amended by adding thereto the
contract of November 30, 1935," between the United
States and Greenwood County. That motion was also
denied.
The court filed its decision entitled "Report to Circuit
Court of Appeals of findings of fact and conclusions of
law pursuant to order of remand." The court recited the
proceedings and in particular adverted to the fact that
plaintiffs' counsel prior to the introduction of testimony
had stated that the only pleadings and issues before the
court were the pleadings and issues "prior to the entry
of the final decree," that no supplemental pleadings had
been filed, and that defendants' counsel had admitted
that the issues were those "formed by the present pleadings, and that under the terms of the order of remand
there was not time to file supplemental pleadings. ' The
court said that it was pursuant to that understanding
that the testimony had been heard. After reciting the
final motions of the parties and its rulings, the court explained that it had overruled the motion to amend the
pleadings because the court thought that it did not come
"within the scope of the order" and that it had no right
"to allow an amendment under the status of this case,
and, particularly, that it would be an abuse of discretion

DUKE POWER CO. v. GREENWOOD CO.
259

265

Opinion of the Court.

for the amendment to come now." Ruling on the testimony, the court held "that all evidence relating to the
formal execution of the new contract, and the contract
itself as admitted in evidence, has been properly admitted under the terms of the order of the Circuit Court
of Appeals" but that for the reasons stated "the oral evidence of Mr. Ickes, and documentary ev-ience relating
to other matters such as rates and purposes and policies
of the Administration, are incompetent, and must be
excluded from consideration. The only documentary evidence admissible is such as related to the execution of
the new contract, and authority therefor."
The court then made findings of fact the first of which
embraced the statement: "No motion was made in the
trial court after the filing of the final decree and prior to
the end of the term when the Court had lost jurisdictio:,,
nor has any since been made before it to reopen the case
because of after-discovered evidence, or because of a
change of the law, or because of its overlooking any material point of law or fact."' Following its findings of
fact as to the new contract, the court presented its views
of the "legal issues," saying: "As thorough an investigation of the authorities as has been possible under the
circumstances since the order of remand was issued, taken
in connection with considerable previous investigation on
the issues involved, has convinced me that the law does
not permit a reopening of the evidence in this case as to
the aims and purposes of the Public Works Administration, nor as to the reasonableness of the rates charged
by plaintiffs, as to the adequacy of plaintiffs' service, and
other issues about which evidence was taken, and which..
were fully determined upon that evidence, at the former
trial. Furthermore, the promptness required for the rehearing by this Court, and its determination, indicates
conclusively to my mind that the Circuit Court of Appeals did not intend by its order that the pleadings should
be amended and the evidence reopened to allow the pres-

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

entation and consideration of any facts other than the
force and effect of the new contract, and to what extent,
if any, its provisions might require a reversal or modification of my former determinations." After citing authorities and referring to the proceedings at the former hearing the court said: "To permit the excluded testimony of
Secretary Ickes would not only t'eopen ,the trial of all
issues regarding rates, reasonableness of service, and the
policies of the Public Works Administration, but would
be in contradiction of the Government's own witness, and
this after the lapse of several months after he was advised
of the general result of the decision and his counsel was
advised of all the details of the trial."
The District Court then set forth its conclusion of law
that the substitution of the new contract did not call for
a modification of its former conclusions. The court added
that it was its judgment that if the excluded testimony
at the last hearing should have been admitted, "it would
be insufficient, as a matter of law, to furnish a basis for
any modification of my former conclusions of law"; that
"whatever might be the purposes, policies, and practices of the Public Works Administration in reference to
competitors, in financing the instant enterprise the result
to the plaintiffs would be the same" and that the lower
rates which the enterprise might be able to charge because of Government aid through its loan and grant
"would effectively establish a 'yardstick' or rate of charge
which plaintiffs must inevitably meet, or have their business pro tanto destroyed."
The climax of misunderstanding was reached in the
court's decree. It recited the application of defendant
Ickes "that the court reconsider" its former decree in the
light of the new contract "and set aside and vacate said
decree," and thereupon adjudged that "the application to
s,. aside and vacate the decree for injunction entered and
filed herein under date of August 26, 1935, be, and the
same is hereby, denied."

DUKE POWER CO. v. GREI:NWOOD CO.
259

267

Opinion of the Court.

Thus the District Court instead of considering the order
of the Circuit Court of Appeals as tantamount to a vacatur of the former decree, and as operating to revest the
court with jurisdiction of the entire cause and imposing
thk duty to permit proper amendment of the pleadings
and a retrial and complete determination of the cause,
considered its former decree as still effective, deemed the
competent evidence on the new hearing to be restricted
to a narrow point, and ended the proceeding with a decree simply adjudging that the original decree should not
be set aside.
On a certification of these proceedings, the Circuit
Court of Appeals interpreted its order of remand. The
court said that it thought that "in view of the changed
situation, the lower court should be revested with jurisdiction of tho enlire cause with powe: to enter such decree
as might he deehiied appropriate." Ignoring the fact that
the )istrict Court had not so regarded the order, that
the pleadings had not been amended and the case properly retried, the Court of Appeals proceeded to pass upon
the question of the validity of the Act of Congress under
which the federal loan was to be made, and of the action
of the PublicWorks Administrator, reversed the decree
appealed from and directed the dismissal of the bill for
want of equity. 81 F. (2d) 986. We granted certiorari.
We thus have a situation in which both courts below
have failed to act in accordance with the standards of
proper procedure. Where it appears upon.appeal that
the controversy has become entirely moot, it is the duty
of the appellate court to set aside the decree below and
to remand the cause with directions to dismiss. See
United States v. Hamburg-American Co., 239 U. S. 466,
475, 478; Atherton Mills v. Johnston, 259 U. S. 13, 16;
Brownlow v. Schwartz, 261 U. S. 216,*218; United States
v. Anchor Coal Co., 279 U. S. 812. If it appears that
supervening facts require a retrial in the light of a

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

changed situation, the appropriate action of the appellate court is to vacate the decree which has been entered
and revest the, court below with jurisdiction of the cause
to the end that issues may be properly framed and the
retrial had. See Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Dennis, 224
U. S. 503, 507, 509; Watts, Watts & Co. v. Unione Austriaca, 248 U. S. 9, 21, 22; Dorchy v. Kansas, 264 U. S.
286, 289, 291; Pattersonv. Alabama, 294 U. S. 600, 607.
In this -instance, the Circuit Court of Appeals could not
leave in effective operation the final decree of the District
Court and at the same time revest that court with juris
diction to retry the cause. The appellate court failed to
make its ruling with proper clarity and definiteness. For
that reason thb District Court failed to understand the
essential purport of the order to remand. The District
Court did not understand that it was revested with complete jurisdiction and its proceedings were not taken and
its decision was not rendered with a consciousness of its
power and its duty.
Delusive interests of haste should not be permitted to
obscure substantial requirements of orderly procedure.
There is no exigency here which demands that these requirements should not be enforced. The cause was heard
in the Circuit Court of Appeals upon a record improperly
made up. That the cause may be properly heard and
determined,.we reverse the decree of the Circuit Court of
Appeals and remand the cause with directions that the
decrees entered by the District Court be vacated, that the
parties be permitted to amend their pleadings in the light
of the existing facts, and that the cause be retried upon
.the issues thus presented.
We express no opinion on the relevancy or effect of the
evidence, or otherwise upon the merits.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

decision of this case.

took no part in the consideration or

