72

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Counsel for Parties.

299 U. S.

The decrees of both courts below must, therefore, be
reversed, and the cause remanded to the district court
with directions to enter a decree in accordance with this
opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration or
decision of this case.

MISSOURI v. ROSS, TRUSTEE, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 3.

Submitted October 12, 1936.-Decided November 9, 1936.

1. Under ยง 64 of the Bankruptcy Act, claims of a State and its
municipality for taxes are of equAl rank, and both are in the sixth
of the orders of priority prescribed by paragraph (b) of that section. P. 74.
2. This Court will hesitate to disturb a long and uniform construction given to a federal statute by the lower federal courts; and the
fact that the provision so construed has not been changed by
Congress, although provisions closely related to it have been
amended, imports a legislative adoption of such construction.

P. 75.
80 F. (2d), 329, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 297 U. S. 702, to review the affirmance of
an order of the bankruptcy court which confirmed an
order of the referee prorating available funds to claims of
a State and a city for taxes, denying priority to the State.

Mr. Gilbert Lamb, with whom Mr. Roy McKittrick,
Attorney General of Missouri, was on the brief, submitted
for petitioner.
Mr. Edgar H. Wayman submitted for respondents.

MISSOURI v. ROSS.
72

Opinion of the Court.,

Mn. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opih.ion of the
Court.
The respondent Ross is a trustee in bankruptcy. The
estate of the bankrupt was indebted to the State of- Missouri for taxes in the sum of $8,366.38, with interest, and

to the City of St. Louis for taxes in the sum of $8,972.30
and interest. The funds of the estate were insufficient to

pay these taxes in full. The referee held that the claims
of the state and city were of equal rank under ยง 64 of the
Bankruptcy Act, and that the available funds should
be prorated between the claims according to their respective amounts. He therefore denied the motion of the
state for priority.
The order of the referee was approved and confirmed
by the district court; and upon appeal to the circuit court
of appeals, the order of the district court was affirmed.
80 F. (2d) 329.
The referee and both courts proceeded upon the theory
that by ยง 64 b, [ 6, of the Bankruptcy Act, all taxes,
whether of the United States, state, county, district or

municipality, were placed on a parity. We agree with
that view.
Section 64a requires the payment of all taxes "legally
(Iue and owing by the bankrupt to the United States,
State, county, district, or municipality, in the order of
priority as set forth in paragraph (b) hereof." Paragraph (b) prescribes the order of priority in which debts
shall be paid in advance of the payment of dividends to
creditors, the sixth order being "taxes payable under
paragraph (a) hereof," and .the seventh order b6ing
"debts owing to any person who by the laws of the States
or the United States is entitled to priority." The text
of paragraph (b) in full appears in the margin.
1"(b) The debts to have priority, in advance of the payment of
dividends to creditors, and to be paid in full out of bankrupt estates,

74

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Couirt.

299 U. S.

First. By this enumeration it is clear that Congress intended to establish seven distinct classes of indebtedness
and establish their priority in respect of one another in the
order set forth. When it came to the sixth paragraph, it
embodied taxes payable under paragraph (a), there enumerated as taxes due the United, States, state, county, district, or municipality. The intention clearly was to put
these various governmental units in respect of their taxes
in a single class upon terms of equality with one another.
Since Congress was at pains to set forth the order of priority in distinct paragraphs under separate numerals, we
and the order of payment shall be (1) the actual and necessary cost
of preserving the estate subsequent to filing the petition; (2) the
filing fees paid by creditors in involuntary cases, and, where property of the bankrupt, transferred or concealed by him either before
or after the filing of the petition, shall have been recovered for the
benefit of the estate of the bankrupt by the efforts and at the expense of one or more creditors, the reasonable expense of such recovery; (3) the cost of administration, including the fees and mileage payable to witnesses as now or hereafter provided by the laws
of the United States, and one reasonable attorney's fee, for the professional services actually rendered, irrespective of the number of
attorneys employed, to the petitioning creditors in involuntary cases
while performing the duties herein prescribed, and to the bankrupt
in voluntary and involuntary cases, as the court may allow; (4)
where the confirmation of composition terms has been refused or
set aside upon the objection and through the efforts and at the expense of one or more creditors, in the discretion of the court, the
reasonable expenses of such creditors in opposing such composition;
(5) wages due to workmen, clerks, traveling or city salesmen, or
servants, which have been earned within three months before the
date of the commencement of the proceeding, not to exceed $600 to
each claimant; (6) taxes payable under paragraph (a) hereof and
(7) debts owing to any person who by the laws of the States or the
United States is entitled to priority: Provided, That the term 'person' as used in this section shall include corporations, the United
States and the several States and Territories of the United States."
[11 U. S. C. 104.]

MISSOURI v. ROSS.
72

Opinion of the Court.

are unable to reach any other conclusion. If it had been
intended to establish priorities as among the governmental
units named in the order in which they appear in the
6th paragraph, the very structure of ยง 64 b plainly suggests that each would have appeared under a separate
numeral instead of all being grouped under a single
numeral.
In New Jersey v. Anderson, 203 U. S. 483, 489, this
court specifically said,: "The requirement of the present
law is a wide departure from the Act of 1867, and specifically obliges the trustee to pay all taxes legally due and
owing, without distinction between the United States and
the State, county, district, or municipality." It is true
that this statement was not necessary to the decision; but
it nevertheless correctly states our view as to the meaning of the clause under consideration, and is now definitely
approved. The decision in that case was made nearly
thirty years ago, since which time the lower federal courts
have almost unanimously followed the rule there stated.
We deem it unnecessary to review the decisions, since
that has been carefully done by the referee in his certificate, and by the court in its opinion. Among the cases
are the following: In re A. E. Fountain, Inc., 295 Fed.
873, 874; In re Wyley Co., 292 Fed. 900, 902; In re A. J.
Waterman Mfg. Co., 291 Fed. 589, 594. These decisions are plainly correct; but if they were doubtful, we
should at this late day hesitate to disturb them. United
States v. Ryan, 284 U. S. 167, 174. Moreover, Congress
in the face of these decisions has permitted the clause as
it now appears in paragraph (6) to stand for many years
without change in its phraseology, although amending
that portion of the Bankruptcy Act in other particulars.
This is persuasive evidence of the adoption by that body
of the judicial construction. United States v. Ryan, supra,
at p. 175; Sessions v. Romadka, 145 U. S. 29, 41-42.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

Second. The state urges that the question is controlled
by paragraph (7), which gives priority in the seventh degree to "debts owing to any person who by the laws of the
States . . . is entitled to priority." Section 3152, Rev.
Stat. Missouri, 1929, provides that in cases of insolvency,
debts due the state shall be first satisfied, and that this
priority shall extend to cases in which an act of bankruptcy is committed. The contention is that unpaid
taxes constitute debts, and therefore fall within the seventh paragraph. But this conclusion must be rejected;
for conceding that taxes are debts, they are carved out of
the general provisions of paragraph (7) and put in a
special class under paragraph (6), and thus fall within the
rule that special provisions prevail over general ones
which, in the absence of the special provisions, would
control. Townsend v. Little, 109 U. S. 504, 512; McKee
v. United States, 164 U. S. 287, 294; Kepner v. United
States, 195 U. S. 100, 125; In re Rouse, Hazard & Co., 91
Fed. 96, 101; In re Slomka, 122 Fed. 630, 631.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

