OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Statement of the Case.

299 U. S.

JOHN HANCOCK MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO.
v. YATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF GEORGIA.

No. 146.

Submitted. November 18, 1936.-Decided December 7,
1936.

By statute of the State ii,which a contract of life inqurance was
made'and where the insured died, the policy, with application annexed, constituted the entire contract of the parties, and a false
statement in the application, that the applicant had not received
medical advice within a specified time preceding the application,
must be taken as a material misrepresentation avoiding the policy
even though, in the making of the application, a truthful answer
on the subject was orally given the company's 'agent, but not

recorded by him. Held:
1. The right of the Insurance Company to escape liability under
the policy because of the falsity of the written representation,
without regard to oral statements made by the insured to the
Company's examiner at the time when the application was made,
was a substantive right conferred by the statute. P. 182.
2. Recognition of this right in an action on the policy in another
State would not give the statute extra-territorial effect but would

merely be a recognition that the parties by their contract, had subjected themselves to the statutory conditions. Id.
3. Refusal by the courts of another State to recognize the right
thus arising under the statute, was a failure to give full faith and
credit to a "public act" of the State in which the contract was
made and the cause of action accrued. Const., Art. IV, § 1. P. 1M3.

4. Such refusal could not be justified as a matter appertaining
to the local remedy. P. 182.
5. Where a contract of life insurance is made wholly in and
subject to the laws of one State, the law of another State can not
determine th6 substantive rights created by the contract. Id.
182 Ga. 213; 185 S. E. 268, reversed.
CERTIORARI*

to review a judgment sustaining a recovery

on a policy of life insurance.

The decision of the inter-

*See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

JOHN HANCOCK INS! CO. v. YATES.
178

Opinion of the'Court.

mediate state court is reported in 50 Ga. App. 713; 179
S. E. 239.
Messrs. Alex W. Smith, Jr., and Byron K. Elliott submitted for petitioner.
Mr. Edgar Watkins submitted for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE

BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In May, 1932, the John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company, a Massachusetts corporation, insured the
life of Harmon H. Yates, agreeing to pay upon his death
$2,000 to his wife. The policy was applied for, issued
and delivered, in New York, where he and his wife
resided; and they remained there until his death of
cancer in the following month. Then his widow removed to Georgia, and brought, in a court of that State,
this suit on the policy. The case was tried before a
jury,
The Company contended that since the contract was
made in New York, the existence of liability thereon is
governed by the statutes of that State. It denied
liability, upon the ground that answers in the application to the questions whether the applicant was then in
good health, so far as he knew, whether he had ever
been treated for cancer or indigestion, and whether he
had had medical advice for any other disease or disorder during the period of five years prior to making
the application, were false; and that these were material
misreprisentations.
The Company proved, and it was undisputed, that the
applicant had received medical treatment five times
within the month preceding the application. It proved,
also, that under the law of New York the misstatement
made is a material misrepresentation which avoids the

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

policy, introducing § 58 of the New York Insurance Law,'
which, as construed and applied in Travelers Insurance
Co. v. Pomerantz, 246 N. Y. 63; 158 N. E. 21 and Minsker v. John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co., 254
N. Y. 333; 173 N. E. 4, provides that the entire contract
between the parties must be embodied in the policy, to
which a copy of the application must be physically attached; that when the insured receives a policy, it is his
duty to read it or have it read; that if an application incorporated therein does not contain correct answers to
questions asked, it is his duty to have the answers cor-"
rected; that in case a false answer to a material question
is not so corrected, there can be no recovery even on proof
that he gave to the examiner the true answer; that the
agent of the Company is without power to waive this
requirement of the policy; and that the false statement
in the application that the applicant had not received
medical advice constitutes a material misrepresentation
which avoids the policy. It was not denied that such is
the law of New York.
The trial court overruled the Company's contention;
permitted the plaintiff to testify, in effect, that true
answers had been given orally by the applicant to the
Company's agent, and that the agent had said that the
answers as recorded in the application were correct; submitted to the jury the determination of the question
whether the false statement in the application was a material misrepresentation; and, among other things
charged that "if a policy is issued with knowledge by the
agent of a fact or condition which, by the terms of the
contract, would render it void, the insurer will be held to
have waived the existence of such fact or condition, and
the policy will not be voided thereby." The jury rendered a verdict for the plaintiff; judgment was entered
'Laws of New York, 1906, c. 326.
New York (1930), c. 30, § 58.

Cahill's Consolidated Laws of

JOHN HANCOCK INS. CO. v. YATES.
178

181

Opinion of the Court.

thereon in the sum of $2,000; that judgment was affirmed
by the Court of Appeals of Georgia (50 Ga. App. 713;
179 S. E. 239); and again by the Supreme Court of that
State, two judges dissenting (182 Ga. 213; 185 S. E. 268).
We granted certiorari because of the claim that the state
courts had refused to give to the public acts of New York
full faith and credit as required by § 1 of Article IV of
the Federal Constitution.
The reason assigned by the Supreme Court of Georgia
for its decision appears to be this: Under the law of that
State, as elsewhere, the validity, form and effect of contracts are to be determined generally by the law of the
place where made, but the character and extent of the
remedies and the mode of procedure by the law of the
forum. Under its law, false answers to questions in an
application furnish ground for avoiding a policy, if the
matters involved are material to the risk; but whether
the statements are material is a matter of fact to be
decided by the jury. And, if the agent of the insurance
company incorrectly records answers after the applicant
has truthfully replied to the questions, the agent's actual
knowledge of the facts will be imputed to the insurer, and
the question for the jury then is as to the materiality of
the misstatements on the face of the application, viewed
in the light of the knowledge imputed to the insurer.2
The manner in which this question of materiality shall be
determined, and the effect of the disclosure made orally
by the applicant to the agent, are matters affecting the
remedy only, and not the validity, form or effect of the
contract. Hence, the full faith and credit clause of the
Federal Constitution does not compel the application by
Compare Johnson v. Aetna Insurance Co., 123 Ga. 404; 51 S. E.
339; Knights of Pythias.v. Few, 138 Ga. 778, 76 S. E. 91; id., 142
Ga. 240, 82 S. E. 627; MetropolitanLife Insurance Co. v. Hale, 177
Ga. 632; 170 S. E, 875; National Accident & Health Insurance Co. V.
Davis, 179 Ga. 595; 176 S. E. 387.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

Georgia of the New York statute in this case. Such is
the argument.
The reasoning of the Georgia Court, and the conclusion
reached by it, are not sound. No question of remedy is
presented. The Company sets up as a defense a substantive right conferred by a statute of New York. The contract of insurance was made, and the death of the insured
occurred in that State. In respect to the accrual of the
right asserted under the contract, or liability denied, there
was no occurrence, nothing done, to which -the law of
Georgia could apply. Compare Home Insurance Co. v.
Dick, 281 U. S.397, 408. To sustain the defense involves
merely recognition by the courts of Georgia that the parties have by their contract made in New York subjected
themselves to certain conditions prescribed by its statute.
Such recognition does not give to the New York statute
extra-territorial effect. The statute of New York prescribes, or limits, the things which will be effective to
create binding contracts of insurance, or terms in them.
As construed by the highest court of the State, the statute
makes the policy with the application annexed the entire
contract between the parties. And it declares that a false
answer in the application to the precise question here involved is a material misrepresentation which avoids the
policy; and that the fact that a truthful answer was orally
given to the agent but not recorded is without legal significance. In so declaring, the statute enacts a rule of
substantive law ' which became a term of the contract,
as much so as the amount of the premium to be paid or
the time for its payment. The declaration by the statute
as construed and applied by the highest Court of New
York that the false answer here involved is a material
misrepresentation which avoids the policy determines the
substantive rights of the parties as fully as if a provision
'Compare Aetna Lije Insurance Co. v. Dunken, 266 U. S. 389, 393;
Modern Woodmen of America v. Mixer, 267 U. S. 544.

OLD DEARBORN CO. v. SEAGRAM CORP. 1S3
178

Syllabus.

to that effect had been embodied in writing in the policy.
To refuse to give that defense effect would irremediably
subject the Company to liability. Compare Bradford
Electric Light Co. v. Clapper, 286 U. S. 145, 160. Because the statute is a "public act," faith and credit must
be given to its provisions as fully as if the materiality of
this specific misrepresentation in the application, and the
consequent non-existence of liability, had been declared
by a judgment of a New York court. Bradford Electric
Light Co. v. Clapper, supra, at page 155.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration or

decision of this case.
OLD DEARBORN DISTRIBUTING CO. v. SEAGRAM-DISTILLERS CORP.*
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 22b. Argued November 12, 13, 1936.-Decided December 7, 1936.
1. Section 1 of the Fair Trade Act of Illinois sanctions contracts of
sale or resale of commodities identified by the trade-mark, brand
or name of the producer or owner, which are in fair competition
with commodities of the same general class produced by others,
notwithstanding that such contracts stipulate (a) that the buyer
will not resell except at the price stipulated by the vendor; and
(b) that the producer or vendee of such a commodity shall require,
upon the sale to another, that he agree ih turn not to resell except
at the price stipulated by such producer or vendee. Section 2
provides that wilfully and knowingly advertising, offering for sale
or selling any commodity at less than the price stipulated in any
contract made consistently with § 1, whether the person doing so is
or is not a party to the contract, shall constitute unfair competition, giving rise to a right of action in favor of anyone damaged
thereby. As applied to a dealer who, with full knowledge of an
existing price restriction imposed by contract between a producer
*.Together

with No. 372, McNeil v. Joseph Triner Corp. Appeal

from the Supreme Court of Illinois.

