CITY BANK CO. v. IRVING TRUST CO.

433

Syllabus.

CITY BANK FARMERS TRUST CO., ASSIGNEE, v.
IRVING TRUST CO., TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 260.

Argued December 16, 1936.-Decided January 4, 1937.

1. The purpose of § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act was to facilitate
rehabilitation of embarrassed corporations by scaling or rearrangement of their obligations and shareholders' interests, thus avoiding a winding up, a sale of assets, and a distribution of the proceeds. P. 437.
2. A salient element in such a reorganization is the discharge of all
demands of whatsoever sort, executory and contingent, presently
due or to mature in the future, and of such claims not the least
important are those for rent to accrue under a lease, or for damages
or indemnity payable because of the termination of a leasehold.
P. 438.
3. Section 77B of the Bankruptcy Act provides: "In case an executory contract or unexpired lease of real estate shall be rejected
pursuant to direction of the judge given in a proceeding instituted
under this section, or shall have been rejected by a trustee or
receiver in bankruptcy or receiver in equity, in a proceeding pending prior to the institution of %proceeding under this section, any
person injured by such rejection shall, for all purposes of this
section and of the reorganization plan, its acceptance and confirmation, be deemed to be a creditor."
Held: That the lessor, in a lease having no covenant upon the
part of the lessee to indemnify against or pay damages arising out
of its termination, was a "person injured" by the rejection of the
lease by the lessee's trustee in bankruptcy; and in a subsequent
proceeding under § 77B has a provable claim against the debtor's
estate for the injury, even assuming that the lessor's reentry,
reletting, and restoration of the premises, after rejection of the
lease, had terminated the leasehold and ended the tenant's liability
under the local law. Pp. 438, 443.
4. In relation to § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act and the contemporaneous amendment of § 63 (a), judicial notice is taken of the plight
of landlords resulting from the flood of corporate bankruptcies
caused by the economic depression, and in particular of the situa-

434

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

tion of owners of business properties ]eased to chain store organizations, which had resorted to voluntary bankruptcy largely as a

lever to force revision of leases. P. 438.
83 F. (2d) 209, reversed.

CERTIORARI

*

to review the affirmance of an order of

the District Court rejecting a claim in a reorganization
proceeding under § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act.
Mr. Henry L. Glenn, with whom Mr. Rollin Browne
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. William D. Whitney, with whom Mr. R. L. Gilpatric was on the brief, for Irving Trust Co., Trustee,
respondent.
Messrs. Sanford H. E. Freund, Winthrop H. Kellogg,
and Douglas B. Steimle were on the brief for the Preferred Stockholders' Protective Committee, respondent.
By leave of Court, Messrs. John Gerdes and John Godfrey Saxe filed a brief on behalf of Ella May Voigt et al.,
Trustees, as amici curiae, urging reversal of the decision
below.
MR. JUSTIcE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Certiorari was granted in this and three following cases
involving the construction and validity of provisions of
§ 77B of the Bankruptcy Act' which enlarge the category of provable claims to include one by a landlord
for injury due to rejection of a lease, or for damages or
indemnity under a lessee's covenant.
*

See Table of Cases Relortcd in this volume.

'Added to the Bankruptcy Act of 1898 by Act of June 7, 1934, c.
424, § 1, 48 Stat. 912, as amended by Act of Aug. 20, 1935, c. 577,
49 Stat. 664, and Act of Aug. 29, 1935, e. 809, 49 Stat. 965; 11
U. S. C. 207.

CITY BANK CO. v. IRVING TRUST CO. 435
433

Opinion of the Court.

Florence H. Bugbee, the petitioner's assignor, leased to
United Cigar Stores Company of America premises in
Trenton, New Jersey, for a term commencing April 1,
1926, and ending March 31, 1946. August 29, 1932, the
lessee was adjudicated a bankrupt upon its own petition.
November 11, 1932, the respondent, as trustee in bankruptcy, rejected the lease and abandoned the premises, a
portion of which had been sublet by the bankrupt. Without notice to the Cigar Stores Company the landlord relet
portions of the building to subtenants in possession and
let other portions to new tenants.
June 9, 1934, two days after the passage and effective
date of § 77B, the Cigar Stores Company, as permitted
by subsection (p), filed in the pending bankruptcy proceeding its petition for reorganization. In the latter cause
the petitioner presented a proof of claim for injury resulting from the rejection of the lease. The trustee objected to the claim and asked to have it expunged for the
reason that the lease incorporated no covenant to indemni.y the lessor for loss of rents or other provision enabling her to hold the tenant for damages or for rent
accruing subsequent to termination of the leasehold estate,
and asserted the leasehold had been terminated and all
obligations of the debtor under the lease extinguished by
the landlord's reentry and reletting.
The special master who heard the cause recommended
disallowance of the claim in the view that § 77B did not,
and could not, create any valid and legal claims against
the debtor where none existed anterior to the enactment
of the section, and held that none existed before its adoption because, by the law of Vew Jersey, the landlord's
reentry and reletting worked a gurrender of the leasehold.
In his report the master referre4 to the fact that the record
in the earlier bankruptcy proceeding disclosed a claim filed
by the landlord, upon which dividends had been paid, for
expenditures in restoring a party wall and closing up a

436

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

common entrance in the leased building based upon the
debtor's agreement to restore it at the expiration of the
term, which was again asserted in the present proceeding.
He thus commented upon this situation:
"Naturally, the entire basis of this claim for restoration
is the expiration of the lease. The Trustee may well point
to it, as showing that the Landlord, prior to the enactment
of Section 77-B, by her re-entry and reletting of the
premises as aforesaid, considered that the lease terminated
and expired."
The District Court approved the master's report and
rejected the claim; and the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirmed,2 holding that the injury specified in § 77B (b)
(10) for which a claim by a landlord is allowable can only
be such injury as would found an action under applicable
state law. The court concluded that although according
to the law of New Jersey the reentry and reletting did
not effect a surrender, the restoration of the building was
such an assertion of dominion by the landlord as to deprive her of any further claim against the tenant.
The parties differ with respect t6 the correctness of the
Circuit Court of Appeals' interpretation of the law of
New Jersey. They also disagree as to whether the record
supports the finding that the landlord restored a portion
of the leased building. The disputes need not be resblved
if the petitioner is right in asserting that, within the purview of § 77B, the lessor was a person injured by
the rejection of the lease who is accorded a provable claim
against the debtor's estate for the injury, notwithstanding
the reentry, reletting, and restoration of the premises,
after rejection of the lease, consummated a surrender of
the leasehold, and ended the tenant's liability under the
local law. As § 77B supplements and extends the bankruptcy system in force at the time of its enactment, we
'83 F. (2d) 209.

CITY BANK CO. v. IRVING TRUST CO.
433

437

Opinion of the Court.

shall examine the question in the light of the old law, the
supposed mischief arising under it and the alterations
made by the later act.
1. Section 63 (a) of the Bankruptcy Act of 1898
stated what claims should be provable in bankruptcy.
The section gave a landlord no provable claim for rent to
accrue after the trustee's rejection of a lease. The tenant's liability for future rent was not discharged and
remained enforceable as instalments of rent fell due.
This was necessarily so, since future rent is demandable
only in the amounts and at the times named in the lease
and the total cannot be recovered at law in a lump sum
in advance of accrual of the instalments. This state of
the law involved elements of hardship to both lessor'and
lessee. In the case of a corporate, and often in that of
an individual lessee, the landlord's right to collect rent
from a bankrupt tenant was valueless. On the other
hand, if the landlord, notwithstanding rejection by the
trustee, was compelled by its terms, or elected pursuant
to its provisions, to treat the lease as still in force, he
might throughout the remainder of the term harass the
discharged bankrupt by successive actions for accruing
rent and so retard or preirent the debtor's financial rehabilitation which the statute was intended to aid.
Many leases provide for the termination of the tenant's estate upon his adjudication as a bankrupt, by the
lessor's reentry. Under the old law such termination did
not give rise to a provable claim for future rent, or for
damages, or for indemnity. Not uncommonly lease
agreements, in addition to stipulation for termination of
the leasehold upon the tenant's bankruptcy, provide that
the bankrupt shall indemnify the landlord for loss of
future rent. These provisions vary in their terms, some
requiring the rendition of indemnity as each instalment
'30 Stat. 562.

438

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

of rent falls due, others at the end of the term when the
full difference between the rent reserved and that received upon reletting can be ascertained. Under § 63
(a) of the Act of 1898 such covenants did not support a
provable claim, as the obligation to indemnify ripened
after adjudication. The consequence was that liability
under this sort of covenant was not discharged and remained to haunt the bankrupt.
As early as 1932 proposals were brought forward in
Congress for the broadening of the bankruptcy system to
authorize proceedings for the reorganization of business
corporations. Bills authorizing proceedings in courts of
bankruptcy to that end failed of passage in the 72d and
73d Congress. H. R. 5884, 73d Congress, Second Session,
which ultimately became law as § 77B of the Bankruptcy
Act, was under consideration when the decision in Manhattan Properties,Inc. v. Irving Trust Co., 291 U. S. 320,
threw into high relief the plight in which landlords found
themselves as a result of the flood of corporate bankruptcies brought about by the economic depression. The
situation of owners of business properties leased to chain
store organizations which had resorted to voluntary bankruptcy largely as a !ever to force revision of leases was the
subject of comment in and out of Congress. By the same
act § 63 (a) was amended to give a provable claim to a
landlord whose lease had been rejected by a trustee in
bankruptcy and a similar provision was incorporated in
77B, the new reorganization section. This history cannot be ignored in construing the supplemental legislation.
2. The purpose of § 77B was to facilitate rehabilitation of embarrassed corporations by a scaling or rearrangement of their obligations and shareholders' interests,
thus avoiding a winding up, a sale of assets, and a distribution of the proceeds. A salient element in such a reorganization is the discharge of all demands of whatsoever
sort, executory and contingent, presently due or to mature

CITY BANK CO. v. IRVING TRUST CO.
433

439

Opinion of the Court.

in the future. Of such claims not the least important are
those for rent to accrue under a lease, or for damages or
indemnity payable because of the terminati~n of a leasehold. Obviously if such obligations are to be discharged
they -must be made provable, for they cannot be destroyed. How, then, did the Congress deal with them?
The pertinent provisions of § 77B are copied in the
margin.4
* "(a) Any corporation which could become a bankrupt under section 4 of this Act, . . . may file an original petition, . . . in
any proceeding pending in bankruptcy, whether filed before or after
this section becomes effective,
"(b) . . . (10) . . . The term 'creditors' shall include for
all purposes of this section and of the reorganization plan, its acceptance and confirmation, all holders of claims of whatever character
against the debtor or its property, including claims under executory
contracts, whether or not such claims would otherwise constitute
provable claims under this Act. The term 'claims' includes debts,
securities, other than stock, liens, or other interests of whatever
character.
"In case an executory contract or unexpired lease of real estate
shall be rejected pursuant to direction of the judge given in a proceeding instituted under this section, or shall have been rejected by
a'trustee or receiver in bankruptcy or receiver in equity, in a proceeding pending prior to the institution of a proceeding under this
section any person injured by such rejection shall, for all purposes
of this section and of the reorganization plan, its acceptance and
confirmation, be deemed to be a creditor. The claim of a landlord
for injury resulting from the rejection of an unexpired lease of
real estate or for damages or indemnity under a covenant contained
in such lease shall be treated as a claim ranking on a parity with
debts which would be provable under section 63 (a) of this Act,
but shall be limited to an amount not to exceed the rent, without
acceleration, reserved by said lease for the three years next succeeding the date of surrender of the premises to the landlord or the
date of reentry of the landlord, whichever first occurs, whether before or after the filing of the petition, plus unpaid rent accrued up
to such date of surrender or reentry:
"
"(p) This section shall take effect and be in force from and after
the date of the approval of this amendatory Act and shall apply

440

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

Clause 10 renders provable, claims upon covenants of
indemnity maturing upon reentry after adjudication. The
term "creditors" is made to include "holders of claims of
whatever character against the debtor or its property,
including claims under executory contracts, whether or
not such claims would otherwise constitute provable claims
under this Act." Bankruptcy of the obligor is an anticipatory breach of an executory contract and a claim for
damages for the breach was provable under § 63 (a) of the
Act of 1898.' One having a demand against a debtor
whose affairs are in the hands of an equity receiver, if the
claim matured after the receiver's appointment but before
the expiration of the period fixed for presentation of claims,
is entitled to prove and to share in distribution;'
but the rule in bankruptcy has been that the claim under
an executory contract must mature at or before the filing
of the petition.7 The language which is italicized in the
foregoing quotation from clause 10 can have no other
meaning than that claims upon covenants for damages or
indemnity arising out of the termination of a lease after
initiation of proceedings under § 77B are provable. The
provision, however, creates no new claim. It merely
treats the adjudication as a breach of covenant and gives a
provable claim in virtue of the breach.
Since in the instant case the lease contains no such
covenant, in the absence of some further provision respecting landlords' claims the petitioner would be without
remedy under § 77B, as it would have been"in strict bankas fully to debtors, their stockholders and creditors, whose interests
or debts have- been acquired or incurred prior to such date, as to
debtors, their stockholders and creditors, whose interests or debts
are acquired or incurred after such date. Proceedings under this
section may be taken in proceedings in bankruptcy which are pending on the effective date of this amendatory Act."
'Chicago Auditorium Assn. v. Central Trust Co., 240 U. S. 581.
'Win. Filene's Sons Co. v. Weed, 245 U. S. 597, 601-602.
'Manhattan Properties, Inc., v. Irving Trust Co., supra.

CITY BANK CO. v. IRVING TRUST CO. 441
433

Opinion of the Court.

ruptcy proceedings under § 63 (a) of the Act of 1898 until
that section was amended in 1934. There is, however, a
further provision: "In case an executory contract or unexpired lease of real estate shall be rejected pursuant to
direction of the judge [See subsection (c) (5).] given in
a proceeding instituted under this section, or shall have
been rejected by a trustee or receiver in bankruptcy or
receiver in equity, in a proceeding pending prior to the
institution of a proceeding under this section any person
injured by such rejection shall, for all. purposes of this
section and of the reorganization plan, its acceptance and
confirmation, be deemed to be a creditor." Under the old
law the rejection of a lease by a trustee in bankruptcy was
not a breach of the lease, in the absence of a specific agredment that it should be so. The bankrupt tenant remained liable for the rent as it fell due but all the assets
wherewith he might pay were taken from him. For a
default in payment subsequent to adjudication the landlord might reenter and terminate the lease. By virtue of a
covenant so providing the landlord might treat the bankruptcy as cause for reentry and termination of the leasehold estate. While, therefore, the rejection of a lease by
a trustee in bankruptcy might, and usually did, spell
possible or probable injury to the landlord, that fact gave
him no standing as a creditor in the bankruptcy proceeding: Having in mind this state of affairs the purpose is
clearly to give a landlord a provable claim for injury due
to the rejection of his lease, whether the instrument contains a covenant of indemnity or not.
Although, as we have noted, under the Act of 1898 rejection by the trustee was not a breach of the lease, it
left the premises in the possession of an impecunious tenant with the virtual certainty they would be thrown back
upon the landlord's hands untenanted. If the owner
could not turn his property to.account on terms as favorable as those embodied in the rejected lease obviously he
suffered an injury.

442

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

The opinion in the Manhattan Properties case, supra,
adverts to the fact that for many years the English bankruptcy .acts have given a remedy for the loss of future
rents due to supervening bankruptcy and sequent rejection of the lease.8 Congress was familiar with this fact
when § 77B wvas under discussion.' The analogous provisions of the English Acts while differently phrased are
of the same purport as those of § 77B.1" Congress intended to supply the omission of the Act of 1898 and to
create a claim provable in a reorganization proceeding for
injury due to a trustee's rejection. This conclusion finds
further support in the succeeding sentence, which in limiting the amount allowable upon these claims, refers to
them in three aspects, thus: "The claim of a landlord for
injury resulting from the rejection of an unexpired lease
of real estate or for damages or indemnity under a covenant contained in such lease," etc.
3. Like any other provable claim, that of a landlord for
injury resulting from rejection of the lease, or for damages or indemnity for termination of the tenure, may, for
an adequate consideration, be released, Schwartz v. Irving
Trust Co., post, p. 456. The lease, moreover, may
contain stipulations, fulfillment of which is to be full compensation for any loss due to termination of the leasehold
8291 U. S. at p. 33 2 .
'Cong. Rec., Vol. 76, Part 3, p. 2940.
"32 & 33 Vict., c. 71, § 23 (1869); 46 & 47 Vict., c. 52, §'55 (1)
(3) (7) (1883); 4 & 5 George V, c. 59, § 54 (1) (3) (7) (1914).
The subject is first mentioned in the Act of 1869. The English acts
authorize "disclaimers" of onerous property or contracts and specifically refer to leases. The provision for a provable claim based on
a disclaimer is the same in the Acts of 1883 and 1914, "Any person
injured by the operation of a disclaimer under this section shall
be deemed to be a creditor of the bankrupt to the extent of the injury, and may accordingly prove the same as a debt under the
bankruptcy."

CITY BANK CO. v. IRVING TRUST CO.
433

443

Opinion of the Court.

and thus bar any claim under 77B for the landlord's loss.
Meadows v. Irving Trust Co., post, p. 464.
4. The question for decision in this case is whether the
claim recognized by § 77B, which would not have been
an enforceable demand at common law, or Under the laws
of many of the states, is allowable only if the leasehold
estate has not, after rejection of the lease, been drowned
by surrender effective under state law or otherwise terminated pursuant to state law by the lessor's conduct.
We think it.clear that provapility of such a claim is
unaffected by any termination of the leasehold subsequent to rejection of the lease. The provision is that the
landlord's claim for injury resulting from rejection, or for
damages, or for indemnity under a covenant, shall 8e
limited to an amount not exceeding the rent reserved
"for the three years next succeeding the date of surrender of the premises to. the landlord or the date of
reentry of the landlord, whichever first occurs, whether
before or after the filing of the petition, . . ." Plainly
the word "reentry" is used to describe a case where the
landlord, treating the bankruptcy as a breach of the lease,
reenters for condition broken.. Whether the other phrase,
"surrender of the premises to the landlord," denotes the
technical surrender which drowns the particular estate
in the reversion, or the mere tradition to, and acceptance
by, the landlord of possession, is immaterial. The
amount of the landlord's claim for the loss of his lease
necessarily is the difference between the rental value of.
the remainder of the term and the rent reserved, both
discounted to present worth. This, we have said, is a
method of liquidation familiar and fair. It was the
method adopted under § 77B in Kuehner v. Irving Trust
Co., 85 F. (2d) 35, the judgment in which is this (lay
affirmed, post, p. 445- '-If the landlord must give
credit for the present rental value of the premises he is

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

entitled to avail himself of them for realization of that

value, and this he cannot do without reentry and reletting. If he must give such credit he surely has the
option to attempt recoupment of his loss by occupying
the premises for the remainder of the term. But such
occupation, under the law of most of the states, amounts
to a complete termination of the leasehold and deprives
the landlord of any further rights as lessor. It isevident
that if a lease be rejected the subsequent repossession of
the demised premises, and acts of control and dominion
do not destroy the provability of a claim under § 77B.
It is suggested that if a landlord desires to avail himself
of the privilege accorded by the Section, he must keep
the leasehold estate intact until his claim shall have been
proved and allowed. In view, however, of the obvious
intent of the statute to extend relief not only to landlords whose leases may in future be rejected, but also to
those whose leases have been rejected in prior bankruptcy or equity proceedings, such a construction would
ill accord with the remedial purposes of the act, which
demand a liberal construction in favor of the claimants
for whom relief was intended.
We conclude that the petitioner's claim should have
been allowed. The judgment is reversed and the cause is
remanded to the District Court for further proceedings in
conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

and MR. JUSTICE STONE took

no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

