OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

299 U. S.

LANDIS ET AL. V. NORTH AMERICAN (O.*
CERTIORARI TO THlE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 221.

Argued November 9, 1936.-1)ecided 1)ecember 7, 1936.

1. The power to stay proceedings is incidental to the power inherent
in every court to control the disposition of the causes on its docket
with economy of time and effort for itself, for counsel, and for
litigants. How this can best be (lone calls for the exercise of judgment, which must weigh competing interests and maintain an even
balance. P. 254.
2. There is power, applicable especially in cases of extraordinary publie interest, to stay one suit to abide proceedings in another, although in the two the parties are not the s:ame and the issues not
identical; the burden of making out the wisdom and justice of a
stay in such cases lies heavily on him who seeks the stay, and discretion is abused if the stay is not kept within the bounds of
moderation. P. 254.
3. Suits brought in the District of Columbia by two holding coml)anies, to restrain the Securities & Exchange Commission and
other officials from enforcing the Holding Company Act, were
stayed to await decision of a like suit brought by the Commission
and still pending in another District Court. Held:
(1) That to grant the stay until decision of the other case by
this Court on appeal, was abuse of discretion. P. 256.
(2) The question whether the stay would have been proper
under the conditions which existed when it was granted, had it
been granted to continue only until decision of the other case
by the District Court, is a question which this Court will not
decide, because the conditions have changed. P. 258.
(3) The cause is remanded to the court which granted the stay
for a rehearing, at which it will determine, in the light of the situation then existing and developed, and of the principles laid down
in this opinion, what, if any, stay should be ordered, not to extend
beyond the time when the other case shall be decided by the other
District Court. P. 258.
66 App. D. C. 141;'85 F. (2d) 398, reversed.
*Together with No. 222, Landis et al. v. American Water Works &
Electric Co., Inc. Certiorari to the United States Court of Appeals
for the District of Columbia.

LANDIS v. NORTH AMERICAN CO.
248
CERTIORARI*

Opinion of the Court.

to review a decision on special appeal

which reversed orders of the District Court of the United
States for the District of Columbia granting a stay of
proceedings in two cases.
Solicitor General Reed and Assistant Attorney General
Jackson, with whom Attorney General Cummings, Mr.
John J. Burns, General Counsel, Securities & Exchange
Commission, and Messrs. Benjamin V. Cohen and Thomas
G. Corcoran were on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. John C. Higgins,with whom Messrs. John S. Flannery and Joseph P. Tumulty were on the brief, for
respondents.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOzo delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The controversy hinges upon the power of a court to
stay proceedings in one suit until the decision of another,
and upon the propriety of using such a power in a given

situation.
Respondents, non-registered holding c o mp a n i e s

brought suit in the District Court for the District of
Columbia to enjoin enforcement of the Public Utility
Holding Company Act of 1935 (c. 687, 49 Stat. 803) on
the ground that the Act in its entirety is unconstitutional
and void. The complaint in No. 221 (the suit by the
North American Company) was filed November 26, 1935;
the complaint in No. 222 (the suit by the American Water
Works & Electric Company) was filed the next day. By
concession the two plaintiffs are holding companies within the meaning of the Act, and must register thereunder if the Act is valid as to them. One plaintiff, the
North American Company, is at the apex of a pyramid
which includes subsidiary holding companies as well as
*See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

subsidiary operating companies, these last being engaged
as public utilities in supplying gas and electricity to
consumers in different States. The other plaintiff, American Water Works & Electric Company, is at the apex
of another pyramid including like subsidiaries. The defendants in both suits (petitioners in this court.) are the
members of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the
Attorney General of the United States, and the Postmaster General.
On November 26, 1935, the Commission filed a bill of
complaint in the District Court of the United States for
the Southern District of New York to compel other holding companies, members of a different public utility sys.tem, to register with the Commission in accordance with
the statute. At the beginning, the defendants were the
Electric Bond & Share Company, the parent holding company, and five intermediate holding company subsidiaries.
Sixteen other holding company subsidiaries were later
added as defendants with the Government's consent. All
the twenty-two defendants, parties to that suit, appeared
and answered the complaint. All joined in a cross-bill
contesting the validity of the Act and praying a decree
restraining its enforcement. To give opportunity for full
relief, the present petitioners appeared as cross-defendants, answering the cross-bill and opposing an injunction.
On December 7, "1935, the Attorney General filed a notice of motion in behalf of the petitioners for a stay of
proceedings in Nos. 221 and 222, pending at that time in
the District of Columbia. The petitioners had not yet
submitted their answer to the bills, but their position as
supporters of the statute in its application to respondents
was made abundantly apparent. By the notice of motion it was shown that other suits to restrain the enforcement of the Act had been filed by other plaintiffs in the
District of Columbia, and many more in other. districts.
The Government professed its anxiety to secure an early

LANDIS v. NORTH AMERICAN CO.
248

Opinion of the Court.

determination of its rights, and to that end pledged itself
to, proceed with all due diligence to prosecute the suit
which it had chosen as a test. There were representations that the trial of a multitude of suits would have a
tendency "to clog the courts, overtax the facilities of the
Government, and make against that orderly and economical disposition of the controversy that is the Government's
aim." Accordingly the court was asked to stay proceedings in the suits at bar "until the validity of said Act
has been determined by the Supreme Court of the United
States" in the Electric Bond and Share case, "or until
that case is otherwise terminated." To that motion the
plaintiffs filed an answer on December 12, 1935, contesting the power of the court to grant the requested stay,
asserting that the questions to be passed upon in their
suits were not identical with the questions presented in
the test one, pointing out that the Act, even if valid as
applied to some companies, might be invalid as applied
to others, and dwelling upon the loss that they were suffering day by day while the menace of the Act obstructed
their business and cast a cloud on its legality.
Upon the argument of the motion the Attorney General and the Securities and Exchange Commission announced that until the validity of the Act had been
determined by this court in a civil suit which would be
diligently prosecuted, neither the Attorney General nor
the Commission would seek to enforce the criminal penalties of the Act, and that even after such determination
they would not seek to exact penalties for earlier offenses.
Written notice to that effect was given to all prosecuting
officers. At the same time the Postmaster General announced that even if he had authority, he would not
exclude any company from using the mails because of any
violation of the Act pending the judicial determination of
its validity by this court. Also, the Commission issued a
regulation permitting a holding company, when register-

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

ing, to reserve any legal or constitutional right and to
stipulate that its registration should be void and of no
effect in the event that such a reservation should be adjudged invalid or ineffective. Finally, the Attorney General offered to submit to a temporary injunction restraining the enforcement of the Act until the Electric Bond
and Share case should be determined by this court. On
the other side, the plaintiffs offered to consolidate their
cases and thus dispose of them as one. They also offered,
as we were informed upon the argument, to select a
group of suits, not more than three or four, to be tried
at the same time, with the understanding that any others
would then be held in abeyance. These offers were rejected, and the Government stood upon its motion.
How many suits for like relief were pending in the same
and other districts was the subject of oral representations
when the motion was submitted. By consent, however,
an affidavit by the Attorney General was afterwards supplied with a stipulation of counsel supplementary thereto. The affidavit and stipulation were accepted by the
Court, and give precision to representations that would
otherwise be vague. From the affidavit it appeared that,
in addition to the suits at bar, forty-seven suits had been
brought in thirteen districts, five of them, afterwards reduced to four, in the District of Columbia, the others
elsewhere. From the stipulation it appeared, however,
that none of the cases in other districts would be heard
or determined on the merits. The bills were to be dismissed or process was to be quashed in so far as relief was
demanded 'against any officials who are parties to the
present suits, and this for the reason that as to all such
defendants the venue was improper. In a few suits there
were to be decrees pro con!esso against local officials who
had been instructed by the Attorney General not to offer
a defense. The number of pending suits was thus reduced to those in the District of Columbia, though there

LANDIS v. NORTH AMERICAN CO.
248

Opinion of the Court.

was a possibility, more or less uncertain, that there
would be a renewal in that district of the suits begun
elsewhere and discontinued or dismissed. Along with the
affidavit and stipulation the Government submitted a
copy of the complaint and the cross-bill in the suit against
the Bond and Share Company.
Upon this showing the District Judge reached the conclusion that the motion should be granted, stating his
reasons in an opinion. "A decision," he said, "by the
Supreme Court in the Electric Bond and Share case, even
if it should not dispose of all the questions involved.
would certainly narrow the issues in the pending cases
and assist in the determination of the questions of law involved." However, the granting of the motion would be
conditioned upon diligent and active prosecution of the
Government's suit. An order was made on January 9,
1936, staying all proceedings upon the terms and conditions stated in the opinion. From that order the Court
of Appeals for the District of Columbia allowed a special
appeal, which was heard in April, 1936 (four judges sitting), and decided in June. There were three opinions:
an opinion by Mr. Justice Van Orsdel, concurred in by the
Chief Justice; a separate opinion by Mr. Justice Groner;
and a dissenting opinion by Mr. Justice Stephens. 85 F.
(2d) 398. The first opinion states the question before
the court to be whether or not the District Court had
"abused its discretionary power in the control of its
docket." Standing alone, this statement would seem to
concede that there was power, the inquiry being merely
whether the power had been discreetly exercised. The
concession, if made, was speedily withdrawn. A few sentences later we are told that the power is confined to
cases where the issues and the parties are the same. The
separate opinion of Groner, J., treats the subject with
greater flexibility. He suggests that after joinder of issue
there may be a postponement of the trial if the court

254

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

in the control of its own docket shall find that course expedient. He couples this with a statement that a stay so
indefinite as the one before hini would be too broad in
any case. None the less, much latitude of judgment
would have been left to the trial judge if the standards
of that opinion had been adopted as a guide. But plainly
they were not. The order of the Court of Appeals in
each of the two suits reverses the stay order and remands
the cause "for further proceedings not inconsistent with
the opinion of this court." Evidently the trial judge was
expected to conform to doctrine expounded for his instruction in the course of an opinion, yet he would have
difficulty in knowing which opinion to select. He might
believe that comity or deference constrained him to submit to the opinion approved by two members of the
reviewing court, since none had been accepted by the
vote of a majority. At the very least there was a likelihood, and indeed almost a certainty, of confusion and
embarrassment. In such circumstances the call is plain
for a decision that will mark with greater clearness the
bounds of power and discretion. We granted certiorari
that this result might be attained.
Viewing the problem as one of power, and of power
only, we find ourselves unable to assent to the suggestion
that before proceedings in one suit may be stayed to
abide the proceedings in another, the parties to the two
causes must be shown to be the same and the issues identical. Indeed, counsel for the respondents, if we understand his argument aright, is at one with us in that regard,
whatever may~have been his attitude at the hearing in
the courts below. Apart, however; from any concession,
the power to stay proceedings is incidental to the power
inherent in every court to control the disposition of the
causes on its docket with economy of time and effort for
itself, for counsel, and for litigants. How this can best
be done calls for the exercise of judgment, which must

LANDIS v NORTH AMERICAN CO.
248

Opinion of the Court.

weigh competing interests and maintain an even balance.
Kansas City Southern Ry. v. United States, 282 U. S.
760, 763; Enelow v. New York Life Ins. Co., 293 U. S.
379, 382. True, the suppliant for a stay must make out
a clear case of hardship or inequity in being required to
go forward, if there is even a fair possibility that the stay
for which he prays will work damage to some one else.
Only in rare circumstances will a litigant in one cause be
compelled to stand aside while a litigant in another
settles the rule of law that will define the rights of both.
Considerations such as these, however, are counsels of
moderation rather than limitations upon power. There
are indeed opinions, though none of them in this court,
that give color to a stricter rule. Impressed with the
likelihood or danger of abuse, some courts have stated
broadly that, irrespective of particular conditions, there
is no power by a stay to compel an unwilling litigant to
wait upon-the outcome of a controversy to which he is a
stranger. Dolbeer v. Stout, 139 N. Y. 486, 489; 34
N. E. 1102; Rosenberg v. Slotchin, 181 App. Div. 137,
138; 168 N. Y. S. 101; cf. Wadleigh v. Veazie, Fed. Cas.
No. 17,031; Checker Cab Mfg. Co. v. Checker Taxi Co.,
26 F. (2d) 752; Jefferson StandardLife Ins. Co. v. Keeton,
292 Fed. 53. Such a formula, as we view it, is too mechanical and narrow. Kansas City Southern Ry. v.
United States, supra; Friedman v. Harrington, 56 Fed.
860; Amos v. Chadwick, L. R. 9 Ch. Div. 459; 4 id. 869,
872. All the cases advancing it could have been adequately disposed of on the ground that discretion was
abused by a stay of indefinite duration in the absence of
a pressing need. If they stand for more than this, we
are unwilling to accept them. Occasions may arise when
it would be "a scandal to the administration of justice"
in the phrase of Jessel, M. R. (Amos v. Chadwick, L. R.
9 Ch. Div. 459, 462), if power to co6rdinate the business
of the court efficiently arrd sensibly were lacking altogether.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

We must be on our guard against depriving the processes of justice of their suppleness of adaptation to varying conditions. Especially in cases of extraordinary public moment, the individual may be required to submit
to delay not immoderate in extent and not oppressive in
its consequences if the public welfare or convenience will
thereby be promoted. In these Holding Company Act
cases great issues are involved, great in their complexity,
great in their significance. On the facts there will be
need for the minute investigation of intercorporate relations, linked in a web of baffling intricacy. On the law
there will be novel problems of far-reaching importance
to the parties and the public. An application for a stay
in suits so weighty and unusual will not always fit within
the mould appropriate to an application for such relief
in a suit upon a bill of goods. True, a decision in the
cause then pending in New York may not settle every
question of fact and law in suits by other companies, but
in all likelihood it will settle many and simplify them all.
Even so, the burden of making out the justice and wisdom of a departure from the beaten track lay heavily on
the petitioners, suppliants for relief, and discretion was
abused if the stay was not kept within the bounds of
moderation.
We are satisfied that the limits of a fair discretion are
exceeded in so far as the stay is to continue in effect after
the decision by the District Court in the suit against the
Bond and Share Company, and until the determination
by this court of any appeal therefrom. Already the proceedings in the District Court have continued more than
a year. With the possibility of an intermediate appeal to
the Circuit Court of Appeals, a second year or even more
may go by before this court will be able to pass upon the
Act. Whether the stay 'would have been proper if more
narrowly confined will be considered later on. For the
moment we fix the uttermost limit as the date of the first

LANDIS v. NORTH AMERICAN CO.
248

Opinion of the Court.

decision in the suit selected as a test, laying to one side
the question whether it should even go so far. How the
District Court in New York will decide the issues in that
case is not to be predicted now. The Act may be held
valid altogether, or valid in parts and invalid in others,
or void in its entirety. Whatever the decision, the respondents are to be stayed by the terms of the challenged
order until this court has had its say. They are not even
at liberty, in case of an adjudication of partial invalidity,
to bring themselves within the class adjudged to be exempt, though their membership in such a class may be
uncertain or contested. Relief so drastic and unusual
overpasses the limits of any reasonable need, at least
upon the showing made when the motion was submitted.
We think the answer is inadequate that in the contingencies suggested the respondents will be at liberty to
move to vacate the stay, and will prevail upon that motion if they can satisfy the court that its restraints are
then oppressive. To drive them to that course is to make
them shoulder a burden that should be carried by the
Government. The stay is immoderate and hence unlawful unless so framed in its inception that its force will be
spent within reasonable limits, so far at least as they are
susceptible of prevision and description. When once
those limits have been reached, the fetters should fall off.
To put, the thought in other words, an order which is to
continue by its terms for an immoderate stretch of time
is not to be upheld as moderate because conceivably the
court that made it may be persuaded at a later time to
undo what it has done. Disapproval of the very terms
that have already been approved as reasonable is at best
a doubtful outcome of an application for revision. If a
second stay is necessary during the course of an appeal,
the petitioners must bear the burden, when that stage
shall have arrived, of making obvious the need. Enough
for present purpoges that they have not done so yet.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

From the stay in its operation during the course of an
appeal, we pass to the stay in its operation while the testsuit is undetermined. That aspect of the order is subject
to separate considerations and calls for separate treatment. The Government contends that a stay thus limitecl in duration is not unreasonably long, and that the
respondents have been sufficiently protected against substantial loss or prejudice. The respondents deny that
this is so, and insist that loss or prejudice, substantial in
degree, is possible and even probable. We do not find it
necessary to determine whether a stay to continue until
the decision by the District Judge, and then ending automatically, would be moderate or excessive if viewcd as of
the time when the order differently conditioned was
placed upon the files. Almost a year has gone by since
the entry of that order, and in the intervening months
many things have happened. All the parties have united
in bringing these happenings to our notice and in inviting us to consider them. In the suit against the Bond
and Share Company the facts have now been settled by
stipulation; the briefs have been prepared; the case has
been argued on the merits; and a decision may be expected within a reasonable time, With these happenings
disclosed, a decision by this court, if directed to the fairness of the stay order as of the date of its entry and if
based upon a record made up substantially a year ago,
would have little relation to present day realities. "This
court is a court of review and limits the exercise of
its jurisdiction in accordance with its function." Aero
Transit Co. v. Georgia Public Service Comm'n, 295 U. S.
285, 294. To bring about a fitting correspondence between rulings and realities, there must be a new appraisal
of the facts by the court whose function it is to exercise
discretion, and an appraisal in the light of the situation
existing and developed at the time of the rehearing.
Patterson v. Alabama, 294 U. S. 600, 607; Watts, Watts

DUKE POWER CO. v. GREENWOOD CO.
Syllabus.

248

& Co. v. Unione Austriaca, 248 U. S. 9, 21. Benefit and
hardship will be set off, the one against the other, and
upon an ascertainment of the balance discretionary judgment will be exercised anew.
In each suit, the decree of the Court of Appeals is reversed, the order of the District Court vacated, and the
cause remanded to the District Court to determine the
motion for a stay in accordance with the principles laid
down in this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS
MR. JUSTICE STONE

concurs in the result.

took no part in the consideration or

decision of these cases.

DUKE POWER CO.

ET AL.

v. GREENWOOD COUNTY

ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 32.

Argued November 10, 1936.

Decided December 14, 1936.

1. A decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals remanding the cause to
the District Court to be considered and determined anew, imust

vacate the decree appealed from. P. 262.
2. Where it appears upon appeal that supervening facts require a
retrial in the light of a changed situation, the appellate court should
vacate the decree and revest the court below with jurisdiction of
the cause, to the end that issues may be property framed and the
retrial had. P. 267.
3. Upon an appeal from a decree of the District Court enjoining
the performance of a contract it was suggested to the Circuit
Court of Appeals that a new contract had been made superseding
the old one, and upon that ground the court was requested to

remand the cause with leave to amend the pleadings and 'for a
trial or other disposition on such amended pleadings. The cause

