KVOS, INC. v. ASSOCIATED PRESS.
Syllabus.

KVOS, INC. v. ASSOCIATED PRESS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 28.

Argued November 11, 1936.-Decided December 14, 1936.

1. In a suit in the District Court, where the plaintiff's allegations as
to the amount in controversy are challenged by the defendant in
an appropriate manner, the plaintiff must support them by.
competent proof. P. 277.
2. Allegations of the bill as to jurisdictional amount may be appropriately challenged by motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction,
made when plaintiff moves for a preliminary injunction, and before
time for answer. P. 278.
3. A motion to dismiss a bill of complaint for want of jurisdiction,
made before time for answer, which. traverses the allegations in the
bill as to the amount in controvesy, and in support of the denial
alleges facts dehors the bill, does not operate merely as a demurrer
admitting the plaintiff's allegations, but requires the trial court
to inquire as to its jurisdiction before considering the merits of the
prayer for preliminary injunction. P. 278.
4. In a suit by an incorporated association to enjoin alleged pirating
and broadcasting by radio of the news it furnished to newspapers
of its membership which were published and circulated to subscribers in the area covered by the broadcasted messages,- held
that proof on the part of the plaintiff that payments much larger
than the jurisdictional amount were made to it each month by
those newspapers, did not serve to establish that the jurisdictional
amount was in controversy, it being conceded by the plaintiff that
it took no profit from furnishing news to its members but divided
he expenses equitably among them, and it being evident that
asserted danger of loss of members due to the acts complained of
was a mere conclusion, no threat of withdrawal being even sug-,.
gested; nor was any showing made of what damage would result
from withdrawal. P. 278.
5. It is the damafge threatened to a business, by the acts sought to
be enjoined, and not the value of the business, that constitutes
the value in controversy. P. 279.
6. Adjudication of the merits in a case where jurisdiction was not
challenged, does not constitute the ca.se a precedent for upholding
jurisdiction in a similar case in which jurisdiction is in issue.

270

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Respondent.

299 U. S.

Cf. InternationalNews Service v. Associated Press, 248 U. S. 215.
P. 279.
7. The plaintiff's allegation of the amount in controversy in this
suit having been suitably challenged, and no sufficient evidence to
support it having been offered, the bill should have been dismissed.
). 280.
80 F. (2d) 575, reversed.
(CERTIORARI, 298 U. S. 650, to review the reversal of a
decree of the District Court (9 F. Supp. 279) which dismissed, for want of equity, a bill to enjoin the appropriation.and broadcasting by radio of news furnished by the
plaintiff press association to newspapers circulating in the
area affected.

Mr. William H. Pemberton,with whom Mr. Clarence C.
Dill was on the brief, for petitioner.

Mr. John. TV. Davis, with whom Messrs. William C.
Cannon, Harold TV. Bissell, and Clinton W. Howard were
on the brief, for respondent.
The bill of complaint adequately alleges that the requisite jurisdictional amount is involved. It alleges that
the amount involved in the controversy, exclusive of interest and costs, is in excess of $3,000. This allegation is
controlling for the purpose of the motion to dismiss the
bill. Opinion of the District Court herein, 9 F. Supp. 279,
284; Montgomery, Federal Jurisdiction & Procedure, 3d
ed., §§ 207, 210.
Petitioner suggests that the lack of the requisite jurisdictional amount is shown by the trifling amount of pirating disclosed in the affidavits submitted on the motion
for a preliminary injunction. It is sufficient under the
present point to note that the affidavits cannot be considered upon the motion to dismiss the bill.
Petitioner further suggests that the lack of the requisite jurisdictional amount appears upon the face of the
bill, since the complainant's business is shown to be of
a non-profit nature. It is true that the Associated Press

KVOS, INC. v. ASSOCIATED PRESS.
269

271

Opinion of the Court.

makes no profit. It is a membership corporation which
meets its expenses by assessments upon its members.
But the fact that a corporation does not make a protit
does not mean that it cannot be damaged. Furthermore,,
the Associated Press is aLproper party to sue on behalf
of its members; and it is apparent that the value of the
right and interest of the members, properly to be protected in this action, is in excess of $3,000 as .alleged in
the complaint. The real interest of the respondent and
its members, as outlined in the complaint, is unquestionably in excess of $3,000 under the principle that the jurisdictional amount is to be tested, in such a case as the
present, by the value of the right sought to be protected
and not by the immediate pecuniary amount involved.,
The respondent seeks to protect, news in the collection of
which it expends many millions of dollars.
The bill adequately discloses that the Associated Press
is the proper party to bring this suit.
The bill states facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action for a permanent injunction; and the Circuit Court
of Appeals properly reversed the decree of the District
Court dismissing the bill.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This suit was brought to enjoin petitioner, the proprietor of a radio station at Bellingham, Washington,
from appropriating, using, or disseminating news gathered by the respondent or its members during the period
such news has commercial value to respondent and its
members. The prayers were for temporary and permanent relief. The district court directed the petitioner to
show cause why an injunction should not be granted and
entered a temporary restraining order.
In summary, the allegations of the bill follow.
Respondent is a New York corporation and petitioner
a Washington corporation; "the damage to which com-

272

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

plainant is being subjected ...is in excess of the sum of
Three Thousand ($3000.00) Dollars, exclusive of interest
and costs, and the amount involved herein and in controversy herein is in excess of said sum of Three Thousand
($3000.00) Dollars, exclusive of interest and costs."
The respondent, a membership corporation, is composed of proprietors or representatives of newspapers
published throughout the United States whose business is
the gathering, by its own instrumentalities, and by exchange with members, and other means, news, intelligence, and information frotm all over the world for the
benefit of its members, and distribution of the material
so gathered amongst them for newspaper publication,
conformably to the by-laws.
The respondent has representatives in every important
capital and city in the world and has reciprocal arrangements for interchange of news with many important
agencies in foreign countries; has more than twelve hundred members, each owning or representing a daily newspaper, each supplying respondent, as required by the
by-laws, with the news gathered locally by the newspper
he represents; the cost of respondent's transactions,
amounting yearly to many millions of dollars, is equitably
divided among the members; the association's service to
members is'of financial and business importance to them,
due to its promptness, accuracy, and impartiality; the
by-laws require that the news furnished shall remain confidential until publication has been fully accomplished by
all members.
The petitioner conducts a radio station at Bellingham,
Washington, and, as part of its daily broadcast, sends out,
three times a day, morning, noon, and evening, what is
styled "The Newspaper of the Air" in which petitioner
announces what it claims to be, and what usually is, the
leading and most interesting news of the day. The Bellingham Herald, published at Bellingham, is a member of

KVOS, INC. v. ASSOCIATED PRESS.
269

273

Opinion of the Court.

the association and, under the by-laws, the respondent is
entitled to be furnished by the Herald with all the news
from the territory served by that paper; the Seattle Post
Intelligencer and the Seattle Daily Times are published
at Seattle, Washington, and are represented by memberships in the association which has the same rights to news
gathered by those papers.
The petitioner broadcasts news as part of its business
and, by so doing, enhances the profits obtained from advertising broadcasts; the newspapers affiliated with the
respondent derive a large portion of their revenues from
the sale of advertising space, the value of which depends
in great measure upon the freshness and interest of the
news furnished by them. The petitioner, in the conduct
of its station, has become, and is, a competitor of respondent and its members in the obtaining and early distribution of news, for the purpose of popularizing advertising.
The petitioner has no organization of its own foF gathering news, but adopts the practice of "pirating" news
gathered by the respondent and its members. This practice consists in procuring copies of the Herald, the Post
Intelligencer, and the Daily Times and broadcasting parts,
or all, of items therein published, whether gathered by
these newspapers or received by them from the respondent, the repetition being sometimes verbatim and sometimes a rearrangement of the wording. The copies of the
three newspapers do not reach their subscribers for some
time (in some cases as much as twenty-four hours) after
publication; whereas petitioner, promptly obtaining the
papers, is able to pirate and broadcast their contents and
to anticipate the receipt of the news by the newspapers'
subscribers. This practice constitutes unfair competition
,with the respondent; wrongfully deprives the respondent
of the just benefits of its labors and expenditures; similarly injures respondent's members; and prejudices the
respondent with its members.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

The petitioner, though repeatedly requested to desist
from the practice, has refused so to -do, although neither
the association nor any member has granted permission
to make use of the news gathered by them; and the continuance by the petitioner of its practice will increasingly
cause irreparable injury and damage to the respondent
because the effort and expenditures to gather and obtain
news will be rendered largely without reward or value so
far as concerns the territory served by petitioner's station.
Prior to the return day of the order to show cause why
a temporary injunction should not issue, the petitioner
filed a motion to dismiss, assigiing the following grounds,
amongst others: the bill fails to recite facts entitling theplaintiff to the relief prayed and is without equity; there
is a non-joinder of parties plaintiff since the bill discloses
that the Bellinghamn Herald, Seattle Post Intelligencer,
and Seattle Daily Times are necessary parties; the court
is without jurisdiction because the matter in controversy
(toes not exceed three thousand dollars, exclusive of interest and costs, and an inspection of the allegations of
the complaint shows the complainant cannot recover any
amount in excess of three thousand dollars or any other
alnount and the sum named in tihe ad damnumn clause
of the complaint is not a true stateient of comiplainant's
dainages and is not alleged in good faith, Iie facts being
that the amount paid to the complainant for furniishing
the Assoeiated Press news in the city of Belliiigham, to
any of its members, is fixed and determined by the size
of the city's population, and is not affected by any other
condition and complainant has not lost aity alloUit and[
never will lose any amount by reason of t iis conitroversy,

and defendant is not a conipetitor of complainant in any
sense of the word; the Bellinghain lherald is tie real
party in interest and the Associated Press li:is m111iterest
in the cause.
Affidavits were presented insupport of and ini oppositioi to the granting of an injunction, and counsel were

KVOS, INC. v. ASSOCIATED PRESS.
269

Opinion of the Court.

heard upon the prayer for preliminary injunction and
upon the motion to dismiss. The court found the allegations as to citizenship of the parties were true; found
"the amount in controversy herein, by reason of defendant's motion to dismiss, must be construed to be in excess
of $3,000.00, exclusive of interest and costs"; found the
facts as tu the business and conduct of the parties substantially as alleged in the complaint; but found that the
petitioner had not interfered with the normal operation
of respondent's business or diverted any of respondent's
profit.
As conclusions of law the court held that it had jurisdiction of the parties and .the subject matter "since defendant's motion to dismiss admits for the purpose of
pleading all facts well pleaded in the bill of complaint
and particularly the necessary diverse citizenship between
complainant and defendant and the allegation that there
is involved in the controversy herein more than $3,000.00,
exclusive of interest and costs" and that "the complaina it
is a proper party to prosecute this action on its own behalf
and on behalf of its members." Based upon certain of
the findings of fact the court concluded the acts of the
petitioner did not amount to unfair competition with respondent or any of its members and did not violate their
property rights; held, therefore, that the complaint failed
to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action; vacated the temporary restraining order, refused a preliminary injunction, and granted the petitioner's motion to
dismiss with prejudice.'
The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed " and ordered
that a preliminary injunction issue restraining the petitioner from appropriating and broadcasting any of the
news gathered by the respondent for-the period following publication in respondent's newspapers during which
'9 F. Supp. 279.
2 80 F. (2d) 575.

276

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U.S.

the broadcasting of the pirated news to petitioner's most
remote auditors may damage the business of respondent's
papers in procuring and maintaining their subscriptions
and advertising. On the merits the court thought the
case controlled by International News Service v. Associated Press, 248 U. S. 215. Dealing with the petitioner's
insistence that the amount in controversy was not shown
to exceed three thousand dollars the court held that the
International News Service case re,mired the conclusion
that the respondent was in competltion with the petitioner because the decision in that case indicated that the
profit seeking business of the constituent newspapers is
an integral part of the corporate purpose of the respondent; and that "The several millions of dollars here alleged
to be invested in the Association's business [the bill contains no such allegation] may well be damaged to the extent of $3,000 by the pirating practices described." After
referring to the character and scope of the respondent's
activities the court states:
"It is obvious that the business of gathering and distributing to members, before profitable publication, could
conceivably be damaged to the extent of $3,000 by the
misappropriation and premature publication of the news
material. To hold otherwise would warrant the inference that no corporation could be damaged by a wrongful attack on its business, when that business happened
to be run at no profit or at a loss. Also, we are unable
to hold irrational the claim that the piracy caused a $3,000
damage to the Association's quasi property right in the
news."
Although the decision with respect to the amount in
controversy was assigned as error in this court, the parties have in the main directed their arguments to the
merits; the respondent insisting that International News
Service v. Associated Press fully sustains the decree below; the petitioner contending this cause may be distinguished from the one there adjudicated, or, if not, that

KVOS, INC. v. ASSOCIATED PRESS.
269

Opinion of the Court.

decision should be modified. We have no occasion to
consider the soundness of these conflicting contentions,
for we hold that in the circumstances the respondent had
the burden of showing that the case was within the District Court's jurisdictiorl, and failed to carry it.
The bill seeks redress for damage to the respondent's
business and for damage to the business of some or all of
its members. The right for which the suit seeks protection is, therefore, the right to conduct those enterprises
free of the alleged unlawful interference by the petitioner.
No facts are pleaded which tend to show the value of that
right. The complaint contains nothing to the purpose
save the general statement that the damage to which the
respondent is being subjected is in excess of three thousand dollars and the amount involved is in excess of that
sum. Such a formal allegation is sufficient, unless the bill
contains others which qualify or detract from it in such
measure that when all are considered together it cannot
fairly be said that jurisdiction appears on the face of the
complaint, in which case the suit should be dismissed by
the court sua sponte ' or upon the defendant's motion:'
In this case the formal allegation is not reiinforced or
strengthened by other portions of the complaint; neither
is it neutralized or weakened by qualifying or detracting
allegations. In effect it stands alone. Therefore the
court would not have been bound to dismiss upon a motion based solely on alleged insufficient pleading of the
amount in controversy; though it might, of its own motion, have entered upon an inquiry to ascertain whether
the cause was one over which it had jurisdiction.5 But
'Maosfield, C. & L. M. Ry. v.. Swan, 111 U. S. 379, 382, 383;
Bzicyrus Co. v. McArthur, 219 Fed. 266.
Coal Co. v. Blatchford, 11 Wall. 172; Ladew v. Tennessee (opper
Co., 179 Fed. 245; affirmed 218 U. S. 357.
'Act of March 3, 1875, § 5, c. 137, IS Stat. 470, 472; .hid. Coile,
§ 37, 28 U. S. C. § 80; McNutt v. General Motors Acceptance Corp.,
298 U. S. 178, 182, 184.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

where the allegations as to the amount in controversy are
challenged by the defendiant iii an appropriate manner,
the plaintiff must support themn by competent proof.'
The petitioner's motion was an appropriate method of
challenging the jurisdictional allegations of the complaint. It did not operate merely as a demurrer, for it
did not assume the trutm of the bill's averinents and assert
that in spite of their truth the conmlaint failed to state a
ease within the court's jurisdiction. On the contrary the
motion traversed the truth of the allegations as to ainount

in controversy and in support of the denial recitedI facts
dehors the complaint.

This could have been done by

answer, but the time for answer had not arrived when
the rule to show cause was issued, and petitioner was
faced with the possibility of an injunction. The inotion
required the trial court to inquire as to its jurisdiction
before considering the merits of the prayex for prelimninary injunction. And in such inquiry complainant had
the burden of proof.7 The only attempt to meet that

burden is a reply affidavit filed on behalf of respondent,
wherein it is deposed "that the payments made by newspapers for said news sold to them by complainant in the
territory served by said radio station isupwards of $8,000
per month, which is being imperilled and Jeopardized by
the acts of defendant

.

.

by its unlawful

and

wrongful appropriation of complainant's news, and said
sum greatly exceeds the sum of Three Thousand Dollars,
exclusive of interest and costs, and complainant is in danger of losing said memberships and payments if defendant's practices in respect to pirating said news is not
enjoined." This deposition must be read in connection
with the statement in the bill that the respondent makes
no profit from furnishing news to its members but equitably divides the expense amongst them. The association
.cIV~tt

v. (ht'ral Motors Acceptance Corp., snpra, p. 189.

M.llcNult v'.
Gencral lotors Acceptance Corp., supra, p. 1,;9.

KVOS, INC. v. ASSOCIATED PRESS.
269

279

Opinion of the Court.

cannot therefore lose the $8,000 in question. If the
three newspapers in the affected territory cease to pay
the sum, they will save it, not lose it, and, as to any other
damage they may suffer from petitioner's competition, the
affiant is silent. Assuming, without deciding, that in the
circumstances disclosed the respondent has standing to
maintain a suit to redress or prevent damage caused its
members by petitioner's conduct, the allegation of possible damage to them is wholly inadequate, because the
asserted danger of loss of members is a mere conclusion
unsupported by even a suggestion that withdrawal has
been threatened by any newspaper, and no intimation is
given of the character or extent of the damage they
would suffer by such withdrawal. The respondent having
failed to support the allegations as to amount in controversy the District Court should have dismissed the bill.
The suggestion is made in the respondent's argument,
and in the opinion below, that, as the allegations in the
International News Service case, supra, were substantially like those of the bill now before us, this court must
have been of opinion that the District Court had
jurisdiction in the Internationalcase or it would not have
considered the merits. But in that case the answer did
not challenge the jurisdiction, there was no assignment
of error raising the question and no argument on the subject was presented to this court. "The most that can be
said is that the point was in the case if anyone had seen
fit to raise it. Questions which merely lurk in the record,
neither brought to the attention of the court nor ruled
upon, are not to be considered as having been so decided
as to constitute precedents." Webster v. Fall, 266 U. S.
507, 511.
The Circuit Court of Appeals sustained the District
Court's jurisdiction on the ground that the finding upon
that point was not without support, and the appellate
tribunal could not say it was wrong, in view of the magni-

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.

280

Syllabus.

299) U. S.

uude of the respondent's operations and expenditures.

As pointed out in McNutt v. General Motors Acceptance
Corporation, supra, at pages 180 and 181, these factors
are irrevelant upon the issue of the value of the right for
which protection is here sought.
Since the allegation as to amount in controversy was
challenged in appropriate manner, and no sufficient evidence was offered in support thereof, the bill should have
been dismissed. McNutt v. General Motors Acceptance
Corp., supra, p. 190. The Circuit Court of Appeals had
jurisdiction of the appeal and as the District Court lacked
jurisdiction its decree dismissing the bill should have
been affirmed on that ground.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed
and the cause is remanded to the District Court with
directions to dismiss the bill of complaint for want of
jurisdiction.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration Qr
decision of this case.
ET AL. V. LONG, COMMISSIONER
CORPORATIONS AND TAXATION.

BINNEY

OF

APPEAL FROM THE PROBATE COURT, COUNTY OF NORFOLK, OF
MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 77.

Argued November 17, 1936.-Decided December 14, 1936.

1. Massachusetts succession tax (Gen. Laws, Ter. Ed., c. 65, § 1), on
transfers made to take effect in possession and enjoyment after
the donor's death, held consistent with the contract clause of the
Federal Constitution and the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment, as applied upon the death, intestate, of a life tenant,
to remainders then vesting but theretofore contingent, under a
trust inter vivos antedating the taxing legislation. Coolidge v.
Long, 282 U. S. 582, distinguished. P. 286.

