McKEE v. PARADISE.
Counsel for Parties.

McKEE, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY, v. PARADISE, TRUSTEE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 4 and 5.

Argued October 12, 1936.-Decided December 7, 1936.

1. An agreement whereby an employer undertook to make specified
deductions from the wages of its employees as they accrued and to
pay over the amounts deducted to a welfare association main-

tained on their behalf, held to have created the relation of debtor
and creditor between the employer and the association as to
amounts which the employer had charged to the employees and
credited to the association but had not paid over to the association
as the agreement contemplated nor placed in any special fund.
P. 121.
2. Upon the bankruptcy of an employer owing money under an
agreement of this kind, held that the mere failure to pay as stipulated afforded no ground for fastening a constructive trust upon
the bankrupt's general assets in favor of the association. P. 122.
80 F. (2d) 478, reversed.
District Court affirmed.

298 U. S.647, to review the reversal of an
order disallowing a preferential claim in ,a bankruptcy
case. Two appeals were taken to the Circuit Court of
Appeals, one under § 47 and the other under § 48, Title
11, U. S. C., these resulting in two decrees of that court,
to review which two writs of certiorari were granted
here.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. William E. Leahy, with whom AM essrs. William J.
Hughes, Jr., A. L. Schapiro, and B. C. Schiff were on the
brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Stanford Clinton, with whom Mr. Jack N. Pritzker
was on the brief, for respondent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

299 U.S.

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The question relates to the propriety of a preference
allowed in a bankruptcy proceeding upon the ground of
a constructive trust.
The facts Were stipulated. The bankrupt, GrigsbyGrunow, Inc., maintained an unincorporated welfare association, known as the Majestic Employees Welfare Association, to provide life, health and accident insurance for
its employees. The association was governed by its own
officers and had its own bank account. The funds of the
association were invested in United States securities and
the earnings and increment of these investments were
used for the contemplated insurance benefits. The initial
membership fee of one dollar and weekly dues of twentyfive cents were "automatically deducted" from the wages
of each employee who had been employed for the required
period. Before February 4, 1933, the bankrupt regularly
paid to the association the accumulations of each payroll
deduction, less such expenses of the association as were
paid by the bankrupt. From the date above-mentioned,
the bankrupt fell into arrears and until November 24,
1933, when receivers in equity were appointed, there was
always an unpaid balance to the credit of the association.
That balance at the time of the receivership amounted to
$14,607.51. The deductions from wages were made by
charging the employee's account on the payroll records
of the bankrupt and crediting the aggregate of all such
deductions to the account of the associaion on the books
of the bankrupt. "No actual money was taken from the
pay envelopes of the employees and deposited in any
account of the bankrupt, but to the contrary the matter
was handled as a mere bookkeeping entry" and at no time
did the bankrupt "segregate" any money due the association or "deposit any money in any separate trust account

McKEE v. PARADISE.
119

Opinion of the Court.

or bank account." The practice of the bankrupt was to
deposit all its incoming revenue in its general bank account, from which it would from time to time withdraw
moneys and establish various special accounts. The bankrupt was accustomed to withdraw from its general account or special accounts as the convenience of the situation required, and the payroll was drawn from the
various accounts, both general and special, indiscriminately.
In August, 1933, the association was formally dissolved
and, after'setting up a fund to cover certain contingent
obligations, all the other assets were conveyed to another
unincorporated association, known as the Majestic Works
Council, in which the bankrupt and its employees had
equal representation. The Works Council appointed the
respondent, Maurice Paradise, as trustee and authorized
him to take proceedings to enforce its claim. It also appeared that subsequent to February 4, 1933, payment of
the sums due the association had been demanded, and
that payment had been requested from the equity receivers and refused.
The bankruptcy proceeding was begun in February,
1934, and -respondent petitioned for the allowance of a
preferential claim against the bankrupt's estate. The
referee allowed the claim, but his decision was reversed
by the District Judge upon the ground that there was no
trust and that, even if there was, the trust funds had not
been traced into the hands of the trustee in bankruptcy.
This ruling was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals,
which held that a trust had been created and that the
preference should be allowed. 80 F. (2d) 478. In view
of the contention of the petitioner that the decision was
in conflict with applicable decisions of this Court, we
granted certiorari.
We think that the facts afford no adequate basis for
the conclusion that a trust existed. The underlying rela-

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

tion was that of employer and emPloyee. With respect
to wages that the employee earned, the relation was that
of debtor and creditor. By agreement, a part of the
amounts thus becoming due as wages was to be paid to
the association. What would otherwise be a debt to the
employee was to become a debt to the association.
Whether the agreement be viewed as an assignment by
the employee to the association of the claim to the part
of the wages as the latter became due, or as a novation,
the result was that the bankrupt owed the association
the agreed sums. The book entries of debits on the payroll records and credits to the association evidenced that
understanding.
It does not appear that it was contemplated that the
bankrupt should accumulate or hold any fund. On the
contrary, the practice prior to February, 1933, was that
the bankrupt regularly paid to the association the agreed
amounts. The later failure to pay did not alter the nature
of the transaction. The bankrupt was a debtor which
had failed to pay its debt. We know of no principle
upon which that failure can be treated as a conversion
of property held in trust. At no time throughout the
whole period was there a trust fund or res. No fund was
segregated or set up by special deposit or in any manner.
When the wages became due, there was no such fund
but only the general assets of the employer and its obligation to pay a debt. The agreement of the employer
to pay the association instead of the employee did not
give to the employee or the association equitable title to
or lien upon any part of the employer's property. The
assets of the employer remained, as they were before,
general assets. It would be impossible to state all the
circumstances in which equity will fasten a constructive
trust upon property in order to frustrate a violation of
fiduciary duty. See 3 Pomeroy, Equity Jurisprudence,
§§ 1044 et seq. But the mere failure to pay a debt does

UNITED STATES v. WOOD.
119

Syllabus.

not belong in that category. We do not find that the
record shows anything more than that in this instance.
Our observations in Adams v. Champion, 294 IT. S. 231,
238, to which the Court of Appeals refers, have no relation to such a case. See National City Bank v. Hotchkiss,
231 U. S. 50; Blakey v. Brinson, 2S6 U. S. 254; Jennings
v. U. S.F. & G. Co., 294 U. S. 216; Old Company's Lehigh
v. Meeker, 294 U. S. 227; Edisto NationalBank v. Bryant,
72 F. (2d) 917, 920. The fact that the failure to pay the
association was afi acute disappointment and was
especially regrettable as the claimant was an association
of employees, cannot avail to change the debtor into a
trustee or enable the creditor to obtain a preference over
other claims against a bankrupt estate.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed
and that of the District. Court is affirmed.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

took no part in the consideration or

decision of this case,
UNITED STATES v. WOOD.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

,No. 34.

Argued October 20, 1936.;---Decided December 7, 1936.

1. Bias of a prospective juror may be actual or implied; i. e., bias in
fact or bias conclusively presumed as a matter of law. P. 133.
2. The Act of August 22, 1935, concerning qualifications of jurors
in the District of Columbia, leaves all prospective jurors subject
to examination and rejection for actual bias. Id.
3. In dealing with an employee of the Government, summoned to jury
service in a criminal case, the court should be solicitous to discover
whether, in view of the nature or circumstances of his employment,
or of the relation of his particular governmental activity to the
matters involved in the prosecution, he has actual bias. P. 134.

