OCTOBER TERM, 1936.

456

Syllabus.

299 U. S.

for the limitation of such claims which the Congress
might adopt. We are unable to say that that which Congress did select so discriminates between individual claimants to the detriment of the petitioners as to render it
unconstitutional as to them.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS and MR. JUSTICE STONE

took no

part in the consideration or decision of this case.

SCHWARTZ

v. IRVING TRUST CO., TRUSTEE
IN BANKRUPTCY, ET AL.

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 436.

Argued December 16, 1936.-Decided January 4, 1937.

• 1. When claims of a landlord for injury resulting from rejection of
the lease by the lessee's trustee in bankruptcy have been unqualifiedly released by him as agaipst the trustee, the bankrupt, and
the bankrupt.estate, they may not be reasserted in a proceeding
under § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act to reorganize the corporation.
Pp. 459, 461.
2. An agreement between the landlord of .a bankrupt corporation, the
bankrupt and its trustee in bankruptcy, which under the local law
of landlord and tenant effects a surrender and termination of the
leasehold, does not deprive the landlord of his provable claim in
proceedings Under § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act for future rent or
indemnity. City Bank Farmers Trust Co. v. Irving Trust Co.,
ante, p. 433. P. 461.
3. Agreements executed by landlor's of a bankrupt corporation with
the lessee and its trustee in bankruptcy, whichoperated (as it is
here assumed ! to surrender and terminate the leaseholds, each contained a clause purporting to release the trustee, the bankrupt estate and the bankrupt from all liability respecting the lease t0which
it related, including all claini of the landlord in respect of rent, but
contained also a modifying clause declaring that nothing in the
release clause should be deemed a waiver by the landlord of the
right to prove against the bankrupt estate "any provable claims"

SCHWARTZ v. IRVING TRUST CO.
456

Opinion of the Court.

to which the bankruptcy court might adjudge him entitled, etc.
Held that the modifications applied in each case not only to the
.releasing clause but to'the agreement as a whole and operated to
preserve the right to prove claims for future rent, or indemnity
for loss of rent, which were not provable in bankruptcy as the law
then stood, but which became provable in a proceeding to reorganize the corporation under § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act subsequently enacted. P. 462.
83 F. (2d) 202; 85 id. 11, reversed.
CERTIORARI* to review a judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals which affirmed the District Court in rejecting
nine claims of landlords for future rent, or indemnity, in
a proceeding to reorganize the lessee corporation under
§ 77B of the Bankruptcy Act.

Mr. Murray C. Bernays, with whom Miss Susan Brandeis was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. William D. Whitney, with whom Mr. R. L. Gilpatric was on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The provability of certain landlords' claims in proceedings under § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act is here drawn
in question. The petitioners were lessors of the debtor.
Their leases were rejected in a bankruptcy proceeding
pending when the reorganization section was adopted.
All of the leases contained indemnity covenants similar
to that considered in -Kuehnerv. Irving Trust Co., ante,.
p. 445. The variant in the present case is the contention
that prior to initiation of the 77B proceeding, the petitioners bargained away any valid claims they had against
the debtor and its assets.*
*See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.
*This paragraph appears here as amended by order of February
1, 1937.

458

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

In August 1932, when United, Cigar Stores Company
was adjudicated a voluntary bankrupt, there were in force
about one thousand leases under which it held real estate.
In some cases the trustee desired to retain the demised
premises'under a new lease for a shoiter term, or at a
lower rental, or both. In others, where the company occupied and used but a part of the premises and sublet
the balance, the trustee desired the abrogation of the
lease as to that portion which United had sublet, and
a new lease covering only the portion used by United. In
certain instances where the company was lessee and
sole occupant, or occupied a part and sublet a part, or
had sublet the entire premises, the trustee wished to be
rid of the leasehold.
In Ordet to deal with these varying situations the trustee
presented appropriate forms of agreement to landlords,
many, of whom executed them. Ninety-four landlords
who had re-entered -thedemised premises, pursuant to such
agreements, during the pendency of the original bankruptcy, filed claims in the reorganization proceeding.
From the District Court's disallowance of the claims all
the claimants joined in a single appeal to the Circuit Court
of Appeals. That court found that each of 9 ighty-two
claimants, in connection with the transfer of possession
of the premises, or the modification of the existing leases,
gave a general, unqualified release to the trustee, individually and as trustee, to the bankrupt and to the bankrupt
estate, f all claims under the leases or in respect of rent.
Three, so the court found, gave releases containing reservations which were not broad enough to preserve claims
provable under § 77B.
The court held that the releases executed by these
eighty-five landlords were not procured by duress or misrepresentation, were for a valid consideration, and extinguished all claims the releasors might have had. As

SCHWARTZ v. IRVING TRUST CO.
456

Opinion of the Court.

respects the remaining nine claims, the court divided, a
majority holding the agreements the landlords executed,
and what was done pursuant to the agreements, amounted
to a surrender under state law and therefore deprived the
claimants of the right to prove, and one judge holding that
whether or not surrenders had occurred under state law
the form of the agreements reserved claims against the
debtor's assets in the reorganization proceeding.'
All ninety-four claimants petitioned this court for review by certiorari. We granted the writ to the nine last
mentioned.
In each of the cases under consideration surrender and
repossession of the premises was pursuant to an agreement between the claimant, as lessor, the respondent, as
trustee, and the United Company. After describing the
lease, reciting the state of the title thereunder, the bankruptcy proceeding, and the authority granted the trustee
by the court to reject the lease, the contract contains
these provisions: The trustee assigns to the lessor its
right, title, and interestin and to the lease and any subleases; the bankrupt does the same, and also assigns its
right to any rent accrued and to accrue under subleases;
the trustee agrees to pay to the landlord any rents received from subtenants by it as receiver or trustee, less
certain costs; the landlord assumes' all existing and future
obligations, terms, and conditions of and under the lease
and any sublease which would be performable by the
bankrupt or the trustee. By article Fifth the landlord
releases the trustee (individually and as receiver and
trustee), the bankrupt estate, and the bankrupt from any
and all liability of any nature with respect to the lease
ani the subleases and with respect to the premises, including all claims of the landlord in respect of rent or use
'In re Umatcd Cigar Stores of America, 83 F. (2d) 202; on rehearing 85 F. (2d) 11.

460

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

or occupation. To each agreement a rider prepared by
the trustee was attached at the insistence of the landlord.
In most of the cases the rider was substantially in the
following form:
"Nothing in this Article 5 shall be deemed a waiver by
the Landlord of the right to prove against the Bankrupt Estate any provable claims to which the Bankruptcy
Court may adjudge the Landlord is entitled, but this
shall not be deemed to render any claim a provable claim
which is not otherwise such or to relieve the Landlord
from the necessity of proving and obtaining the allowance of any such claim or preclude the Trustee from contesting such proof or allowance."
In one the form was:
"It is, however, expressly understood and agreed that
the said Landlord does not waive any right to prove
against the Bankrupt Estate any provable claims to which
the Bankruptcy Court may adjudge the Landlord is entitled, but this shall not be deemed to render any claim
a provable claim which is not otherwise such or relieve
the Landlord from the necessity of proving and obtaining
the allowance of any such claim or preclude the Trustee
from contesting such proof or allowance. All such provable claims shall not be-affected by this agreement."
The special master to whom the matter was referred
conceded that the riders were intended to preserve claims
for future rent, but thought them effective to save only
claims the provability of which resulted from a favorable
court, ruling and that claims rendered provable by subsequent legislation were not within the reservation. The
District Court approved the'xaster's report. A majority
of the Circuit Court of Appeals held the agreements constituted surrenders, which, according to siate law, terminated all rights of the landlords against the tenant, and
no claim is provable under § 77B, unless it is a continuing
and subsisting claim against the debtor, recognized by

SCHWARTZ v. IRVING TRUST CO.
456

Opinion of the Court.

the substantive law of landlord and tenant, that is, by the
applicable state law. The riders were construed to be
qualifications of the Fifth article only, which was the
general release. As there was, in this view of 'the agreements, no right or claim to be released, a reservation or
restriction applicable only to the release amounted to
nothing. The dissenting judge agreed that the contracts
operated as surrenders but held that the riders were not
limited in their operation to the release clause alone but
were applicable to the entire contract and were intended
and effective to reserve claims which might be found to
be provable, despite surrender, either as the result of
future judicial decision or future legislative action.
1. We refused to grant certiorari in the case of the
eighty-five claimants each of whom, for a consideration,
bargained away all claims, present or prospective, against
the bankrupt, the trustee, and the estate. We agree with
the court below that, under well settled principles, their
releases preclude proof of claims for future rent or for
indemnity.
2. We have held in City Bank Farmers Trust Co. v.
Irving Trust Co., ante, p. 433, that surrender by the trustee, acceptance by the landlord, reentry, and the exercise of dominion over the demised premises by the latter
after rejection of the lease, do not deprive him of a
provable claim in proceedings under § 77B for injury due
to rejection of his lease or upon the covenant of indemnity
found in the lease. It follows that, except for the release, which was a part of each of the agreements; the
petitioners would have provable claims.
3. We do not agree, therefore, that if the earlier para.graphs of the agreements worked a surrender (which we
do not decide) nothing was left upon which the final release clause could operate. An absolute release would
have been a bar to claims for future rent or for indemnity.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

4. As we have seen, each of the releases was qualified
by a rider which reserved "the right to prove against the
Bankrupt estate any provable claims to which the Bankruptcy Court may adjudge the landlord is entitled." A
majority of the court below thought that these riders
applied only to the release clause. The dissenting judge
thought that they purported to reserve all claims provable as a result of judicial decision or amendment of the
statute which might otherwise be lost by the execution
and performance of. the agreements and that they were
effective for that purpose notwithstanding the earlier
paragraphs of the agreement amounted to a surrender
under state law. We think this is the correct view of the
meaning and effect of the reservations. The language in
which they are couched is broad enough to include claims
under § 77B. They reserve the right to prove against
the bankrupt estate any provable claims to which the
bankruptcy court may adjudge the landlord is entitled.
The bankrupt estate, to which the reservations refer, consists of the property which formerly belonged to the bankrupt and, upon adjudication, came into the custody of the
bankruptcy court. It still remains there. Claims for
future rent are specifically made provable by § 77B (b)
(10). The court having charge of the reorganization
proceeding is a bankruptcy court. Section 77A provides:
"In addition to the jurisdiction exercised in voluntary
and involuntary proceedings to adjudge persons bankrupt, courts of bankruptcy shall exercise original jurisdiction in proceedings for the relief of debtors, as provided
in § 77B of this Act." Proceedings in reorganization
under § 77B are "proceedings in bankruptcy." ' They
may be initiated in a pending bankruptcy proceeding by
the express terms of'subsection (p). The petitioners are
creditors and their claims are provable by the express
terms of the section; the estate against which the petiMeyer v. Kenmore Hotel Co., 297 'U. S. 160, 165,

SCHWARTZ v. IRVING TRUST CO.
456

Opinion of the Court.

tioners reserved all provable claims is the same estate
which was within the jurisdiction of the b'nkruptcy court
at the time the agreements were executed.
The special master found, and it seems to be conceded,
that the reservations were intended to preserve claims for
future rent or for indemnity for loss of future rent. But
the master held, and the majority of the Circuit Court of
Appeals agreed, that their scope was restricted to claims
provable as a result of judicial decision and did not extend
to claims made provable by legislation. The language
used does not so limit them. The most that can be said
is that there was serious question whether such claims
could be proved under the law as it stood when the agreements were executed. For whatever they were worth the
petitioners desired the reservations so that they might
possibly make good claims for injury done and loss incurred by the abrogation of their leases. If amendatory
legislation was adopted the bankruptcy court might, pursuant thereto, adjudge them entitled to allowance of a
claim. We think the operation of the saving clause cannot be limited by the fact that the claims are described
as those to which the bankruptcy court may adjudge the
petitioners entitled. That court's adjudication would
necessarily follow and apply any amendment of the Act.
We hold, therefore, that the.reservation was broad enough
to preserve the right to prove whatever claims were provable and allowable either by judicial decision or supplementary' legislation. It follows that the petitionera'
claims are provable. '
The decree below must be reversed and the cause remanded to the District Court for further proceedings in
conformity to this opinion.
Reversed.
took no
part in the consideration or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTIcE BRANDEIS and MR. JUSTICE STONE

