OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Counsel for Parties.

299 U. S.

proceeding under § 77B. Injunction against that method
of establishing the debtor's liability, if any there is, ought
not to stand.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. ILLINOIS LIFE INSURANCE CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 27.

Argued October 16, 193(.-Dcided November 9,1936.

1. "Reserve funds required by law,"-a, intended 1)y § 203 (a) (2)
of the Revenue Act of 1928 permittkug tibe deduction of'a percent.
of such funds from gross income in computing the net income of a
life insurance company-are reserves which (lirectlv pertain to life
insurance. Helvering v. Insnrance Co., 294 U. S. 6S6. P. 90.
2. Such reserves do not include "survivorship investment funds,"
accumulated by setting aside part of the premiums paid Ilbe insurance company on 20-payment life policies, from which funds
stipulated payments will be made to those of the policyholders who
survive the 20 year period. Id.
SO F. (2d) 280, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 298 U. S. 650, to review the affirmance by
the court below of a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals,
30 B. T. A. 1160-62, which sustained a deductioni made
by the insurance company in its income tax return.

Mr. Thurman Arnold, with whom Solicitor General
Reed, Assistant Attorney General Jackson, and Messrs.
Sewall Key, Norman D. Keller, and Edward H. Horton
were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Samuel B. Kraus, with whom Mr. William M.
Klein was on the brief, for respondent.

HELVERING v. ILLINOIS INS. CO.
88

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.

In its income, tax return for 1929, respondent made a
deduction of $133,755.71. The Board of Tax Appeals
held the deduction rightly taken, 30 B. T. A. 1160, 1162;
the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed. 80 F. (2d) 280.
Upon petitioner's insistence that the decision below conflicts with Helvering v. Insurance Co., 294 U. S. 686, we
granted this writ.
The case involves a construction of a clause of § 203
(a) (2), Revenue Act of 1928, 45 Stat. 842, which declares that, in case of a life insurance company, net income means gross income less, among other permissible
deductions, an amount equal to four per cent of the mean
of the reserve funds required by law and held at the beginning and end of the taxable year. That provision is
a reenactment of § 245 (a) (2), Revenue Act of 1921,
which in Helvering v. Insurance Co. we held not to apply to assets reserved by a life insurance company against
matured, unsurrendered and unpaid coupons attached to
its policies. That decision rests upon the ground that
the reserves in respect of the coupon liability were not
essentially insurance reserves which alone constitute the
base on which deduction is computed. The question now
for decision is whether respondent's assets reserved in
1929 in respect of its survivorship investment funds are
included in that base.
The reserves in question conveniently may be described
by reference to a typical policy. Applicable to age 35, it
contains the company's agreement, upon death of the
insured, to pay $10,000 to the beneficiary; the annual
premium is $379.90, payable for 20 years. The coinpany also agrees that, out of each year's premium after
the first; $64.60 will be placed in the survivorship investment fund applicable to policies on the survivorship investment plan issued in the same calendar year; that no

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

deduction shall be made from the fund; that all contributions to it shall be accumulated at three and a half per
cent compound interest; that, if the insured shall survive the twentieth anniversary of the policy, the company will apportion to the policy as a survivorship investment a sum bearing the same proportion to the total
in the fund as the contributions from premiums paid on
that policy bear to the aggregate contributions from premiums paid on all policies in the same class in force at
the end of 20 years. Thus, the entire fund is divided
among the persistent surviving contributors. The policy
provides for optional settlements at the end of 20 years:
(A) The insured may continue the policy as one fully
paid up and in addition receive either cash payment of
the survivorship investment apportioned to it or, if then
insurable, a fully paid up life insurance policy for such
amount as would be purchased by the survivorship investment. (B) The insured may surrender the policy
and receive payment of the cash value, $6,100, and in
addition the survivorship investment.
The mean of petitioner's liabilities in respect of the
survivorship investment funds at the beginning and end
of 1929 was $3,343,982.67, four per cent of which is the
item in controversy.
The phrase "required by law" includes only reserves
that directly pertain to life insurance. Other reserves,
even though required by state statutes regulatory of the
business authorized to be carried on by life insurance
companies, are not included. Under these policies the
company's liabilities on account of the investment funds
are independent of those attributable to life insurance
risks. The right to participate in the investment funds
is not dependent upon death of the insured. The company's liability is the total of contributions to the fund
plus the interest agreed to be paid. It is bound to dis-

HELVERING v. ILLINOIS INS. CO.

91

Opinion of the Court.

88

charge this liability at the end of 20 years. Its life insurance liability arises upon the death of the insured.
Ascertainment of the reserves attributable to that liability
involves consideration of the amount contributed to them
out of premiums plus interest for a period estimated on
the basis of mortality.' The survivorship investment
fund feature of these policies has no relation to life
insurance risks. Under our decision in Helvering v. Insurance Co., supra, reserves in respect of that feature are
not covered.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

took no part in the consideration or

decision of this case.
'The law of Illinois, under which respondent was organized, declares: "All valuations made by it [the Department of Trade and

Commerce] or by its authority shall be made upon the net premium
basis. The legal minimum standard for valuation of contracts . . .
shall be the American Experience Table of Mortality with interest
at 3 per centum per annum." Cahill's Illinois Revised Statutes
(1929), c. 73, par. 331.
It is also declared: ".

.

. that if any company shall issue any non-

participating policy under the terms of which any stipulated part of
premiums received is to be placed in a separate fund for subsequent
apportionment, such company shall furnish the Department of
Trade and Commerce each year . . . a statement" concerning the
fund so provided for "and the amount of said fund at the end of the
year; which shall be carried as a distinct and separate reserve liability of the company for the benefit of the classes of policies from
the premium payments on which the sum was accumulated. No
part of said fund prior to the time of distribution stipulated in the
contract shall be considered in determining the loan and cash and
other surrender values provided for by this Act. .

.

. No such

policy shall be issued which by its terms shall provide that more
than twenty-five per cent of the annual premium shall be placed in
such fund. . .

."

Idem, par. 375, § 5-c.

