UNITED STATES v. WOOD.
119

Syllabus.

not belong in that category. We do not find that the
record shows anything more than that in this instance.
Our observations in Adams v. Champion, 294 IT. S. 231,
238, to which the Court of Appeals refers, have no relation to such a case. See National City Bank v. Hotchkiss,
231 U. S. 50; Blakey v. Brinson, 2S6 U. S. 254; Jennings
v. U. S.F. & G. Co., 294 U. S. 216; Old Company's Lehigh
v. Meeker, 294 U. S. 227; Edisto NationalBank v. Bryant,
72 F. (2d) 917, 920. The fact that the failure to pay the
association was afi acute disappointment and was
especially regrettable as the claimant was an association
of employees, cannot avail to change the debtor into a
trustee or enable the creditor to obtain a preference over
other claims against a bankrupt estate.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed
and that of the District. Court is affirmed.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

took no part in the consideration or

decision of this case,
UNITED STATES v. WOOD.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

,No. 34.

Argued October 20, 1936.;---Decided December 7, 1936.

1. Bias of a prospective juror may be actual or implied; i. e., bias in
fact or bias conclusively presumed as a matter of law. P. 133.
2. The Act of August 22, 1935, concerning qualifications of jurors
in the District of Columbia, leaves all prospective jurors subject
to examination and rejection for actual bias. Id.
3. In dealing with an employee of the Government, summoned to jury
service in a criminal case, the court should be solicitous to discover
whether, in view of the nature or circumstances of his employment,
or of the relation of his particular governmental activity to the
matters involved in the prosecution, he has actual bias. P. 134.

124

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

299 U. S.

4. The provision of the Sixth Amendment declaring that "In all
criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right to a fpeedy
and public trial, by an impartial jury," does not imply that employees of the Government are absolutely and as a matter of law
disqualified from sitting in criminal cases prosecuted by the Government, regardless of actual partiality. Pp. 134, 141.
5. By the English common law, at the time of the adoption of the
Sixth Amendment and long before, servants of the King were
permitted to sit as jurors in crown cases, if free from actual bias.
P. 134.
6. In the absence of any settled practice under the English law establishing an absolute disqualification of governmental employees to
serve as jurors in criminal cases, and in the absence of evidence
that such a disqualification existed in the American Colonies or in
the States, at the time of -the adoption of the Sixth Amendment,
there is no ground for treating such a disqualification as embedded
in that Amendment by the common law. Crawford v. United
States, 121 U. S. 183, distinguished and in part disapproved. P. 141.
7. The constitutional requirement of an impartial jury respects substance and essence. Impartiality is ndt a technical conception, but
a state of mind. For the ascertainment of this mental attitude
of the prospective juror, the Constitution lays down no particular
tests; and procedure is not chained'to any ancient and artificial
formula, but is subject to regulation by Congress. 'Pp. 141, 145.
8. An absolute disqualification of governmental employees and pensioners to serve as jurors in criminal cases is not essential to the
impartiality of the jury. P. .147.
qualifying governmental employees
9. The Act of August 22, 1935, in.
and pensioners for service as jurors to try criminal cases in the
District of Columbia, subject to challenge for actual bias, is consistent with the Sixth Amendment and the due process 'clause of the.
Fifth Amendment. Pp. '147, 151.

- The -respondent in this case was convicted of theft from the
store of a private corporation in'the District of Columbia. Three
of the jurors who Sat, notwithstanding challenges for cause, based
upon the ground of interest' in the United States Government,
were the recipient of a Civil War pension and two clerks employed
in the Treasury Department and the Navy Yard, respectively.
There was no proof of actual bias.
65 App. P. C. 330; 83 F. (2d) 587, reversed.

UNITED STATES v. WOOD.
123

Argument for Respondent.

CERTIORARI, 298 U. S. 652, to review a judgment reversing a conviction of theft in the District of Columbia.
This Court reverses in turn and affirms the trial court.

Assistant Attorney General McMahon, with whom
Solicitor General Reed and Messrs. William W. Barron
and Warner W. Gardnerwere on the brief, for the United
States.
Mr. William E. Leahy, with whom Messrs. Robeft I.
Miller and William J. Hughes, Jr., were on the brief, for
respondent.
As over 75% of government employees in the District
of Columbia maintain legal or voting residences elsewhere, they are in practice ineligible for jury service, and
the argument based upon convenience has no great
weight.
From an analysis of the Government's authorities on
the right to challenge a King's Servant, it seems that
nineteen hold that there is no principal cause; and twelve
hold that there is not even any challenge for favor. Fitzherbert; Coke; and Rex v. Hampden, 9 St. Tr. 1054, 1057,
1061, allow challenges for favor in respect of inenial servants. Actul malice as distinguished from favor was
allowed as a challenge by Staunforde; Lord Hale; Duncombe; Hawkins; Matthew Bacon; Year Book 19 Ass.
62 P1. 639; Rex v. Genney, Keilw. 102a; and Regina v:
Blakeman, 175 Eng. Rpt. 479. Brooke allowed no challenge of any kind for the defendant, but challenge of
either kind for, the King's side.
The reasons why Crown Servants were- not challengeable are given as follows: Staunforde: "Because he
should favor the King by reason of:his obedience." Coke
and Duncombe: "Because in respect of his allegiance he
ought to favor the King more." Rolle: "He ought to.
favor the King more by reason of his obedience." Hawkins and Bacon: "Because eyeryone is bound by his
obedience to favor the King."

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Respondent.

299 U. S.

Based on this alleged exception at common law, the
Government argues that the Sixth Amendment, guaranteeing an impartial jury, includes a like exception. To
sustain this position, the Government must affirmatively
show that the Colonists recognized the exception at the
time the Sixth Amendment was formulated. No authorities to this effect have been cited. Further, what constituted a jury trial at common law is only a partial guide to
what was intended by the constitutional guarantee. The
guarantee of the Sixth Amendment does not stop at guaranteeing a jury trial; this was already guaranteed by Art.
III,.§ 2, cl. 3, of the Constitution. The guarantee of the
Sixth Amendment was that the accused should be entitled
to trial by an impartial jury. The word "impartial" is
entitled to some weight. At common law there was no
such express' guarantee. If the government authorities
are correct, it might well be that at common law Crown
Servants could not be challenged, like other servants, on
the ground that they owed obedience to their master.
The common law reasoning, from the Government's
authorities, seems to be that, naturally, Crown Servants
owed obedience to their master, the King, and that this
was no ground for holding them disqualified. But this
is not proof that juries thus composed are impartial juries
within the meaning of the Sixth Amendment; it simply
means that, rightly or wrongly, common law juries in
England could be composed of Crown Servants and a defendant must take them willy-nilly.
No authority is pointed to by the Government showing
that the alleged exception was generally recognized in
this country when the Constitution was adopted. Blackstone, cited by this Court in the Crawford case as authority for holding that the relationship of master and servant operated as an absolute disqualification, makes no exception whatever with respect to Crown Servants. Nor
do the other authorities submitted to this Court by counsel

UNITED STATES v. WOOD.
123

Argument for Respondent.

for the defendant in the Crawford case contain any such
distinction, viz: 1 Chitty, Crim. Law, 541, 542; 1 Bishop,
New Crim. Pro., § 902; Block v. State, 100 Ind. 357;
Central R. Co. v. Mitchell, 63 Ga. 173; Hubbard v. Rutledge, 57 Miss. 6; Louisville N. 0. & T. Co. v. Mask, 64
Miss. 738; Pearce v. Quincy Min. Co., 149 Mich. 112.
It is not in any embalmed mummy of common law doctrine, unearthed today by legal archaeologists, that our
liberties under the Bill of Rights are preserved; it is by
the living and breathing common law known to the
Colonists. If so, we know of no better guide than the
authority of Blackstone, cited by this Court in the Crawford case. In Schick v. United States, 195 U. S. 68, it is
said that, for constitutional construction, Blackstone's
Commentaries are accepted as the most satisfactory exposition of the common law of England, the reason being
that their wide circulation in the United States prior to
the Revolution familiarized Colonists with Blackstone's
statement of the common law. In attempting to ascertain the meaning of common law terms in the Constitution, it would be a curious way to resort, not to the authority from whom the Colonists had derived for the most
part their knowledge of that law, but to authorities they
had never heard of, such as Year Books published in
Norman French, centuries before, Latin abridgements, or
little known commentaries.
If, in spite of the evident importance of impartiality,
the Government's authorities are correct and a defendant
was compelled to take the King's Servants, good, bad or
indifferent, and could not challenge them in principal because of their position,, or even for favor, as some of the
authorities appear to hold, we can only say that the common law fell short of the desired ideal. Let us not, by
adopting this mistake, accept as an "impartial jury" one
made up of the King's Servants in the King's cases but in
which a servant of a private party is disqualified to sit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Respondent.

299 U. S.

It is unlikely that the American Colonists, recently
emerged from a civil war devoted to assailing the royal
prerogatives and privileges, would, in framing a Constitution, protect in their law one of the silliest and most
baseless of all royal privileges, namely, the royal right
(if the Government's authorities are correct) to have
friends at court on any jury trying a criminal case.
The silence of the records of the Constitutional Convention, and of other sources like the Federalist, is an
indication that the Colonists did not intend to put the
new American Government in any favored position in
any struggle at law with its citizens. It seems a curious
thing to rely upon a practice 'which, the Government's
own authorities show, was grounded upon a medieval notion of lhse-majest in even hinting that loyalty of a
Crown Servant to his King was something less than slavery of mind and will. It would be better "not to go too
far back into antiquity for the best securities for our
'ancient liberties.'" Hurtado v. California,110 U. S. 516.
Constitutional guarantees are formulated, not for cases
where they are obviously unnecessary, but for the exceptional cases, wlere, without theguarantee, injustice will
be done. A government employee may favor the Government, not necessarily from fear or hope of reward,
but imperceptibly, because of his mode of life and of
thought. No way exists on the voir dire to explore the
juror's inclination.
This Court'S, decision in the Crawford case represents aneffort to preserve the right to an impartial jury. Constitutional guarantees, this Court has frequently intimated,
are to be guarded against erosion as well as against open
assault. A jury containing from one to twelve government
employees would always, we feel, be suspect. The right
of the accused to a trial by a constitutional jury must "be
jealously pl'eserved"; and the maintenance of the jury as
a fact finding body is "of much importance in our traditions." Patton v. United States, 281 U. S. 276. Any

UNITED STATES v. WOOD.
123

Argument for Respondent.

diminution of the respect due that institution is akin to a
diminution of the constitutional right itself. It lessens
the prestige of the jury system.
The decision in the Crawfordcase was followed in United
States v. Griffith, 55 App. D. C. 123, and Miller v. United
States, 38 id. 361. Accord: Bickel v. State, 41 Okla. Cr.
Rep. 35; Lockhart v. State, 145 Md. 502; State v. Dushman, 79 W. Va. 747.
The basis of the Crawford decision is not in the fact of
the juror's bias or lack of bias, or what the juror thinks is
the fact. The Court says that the juror is an entirely unreliable witness because he may be prejudiced without
knowing it. Therefore, the Court states that the law
excludes him as a juror because he must not be permitted
to occupy a position to the possible injury of a defendant,
no matter how he may surmise his own state of mind.
We think the Government concedes itself out of Court
when it argues that, under the present statute, a challenge
for cause still exists with respect to a government employee
who is employed in the prosecuting branch of the Government. Laws tending to diminish constitutional guarantees concerned with human rights should deal with
moral certainties, clear beyond misgiving. The present
law is in no such classification. Government employees
cannot be beyond the imputation of interest on the side
of the Government. The so-called test question, "Do
you think you can give the defendant a fair trial?"
amounts to nothing and would if applied allow anyone
and everyone to serve upon a jury provided he answered
"yes." Only the doctrine of the Crawford case affords
protection. to the defendant. Government employees
must be eliminated as prospective jurors on the commonsense theory of "safety first."
The desire for impartiality of jurors even in civil cases
is so great that a very insignificant interest in the result of
an action, and frequently a very trifling relationship to one
of the parties, is sufficient to disqualify.
107510-37--9

130

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

The rule should be even stricter in criminal cases. It is
interesting to note that in most, if not all, of the cases
reported the reason for the rule is not that the juror is in
fact prejudiced, but the likelihood that in some contingency of the case he might become so. The fact that
the juror might say on oath that he would not be prejudiced is taken as of little account, the court rightly concluding that his testimony on this point, being more or
less of a prediction, is not entitled to be deemed conclusive, and hence, in fairness, the interested juror must be
excluded.
The argument based on vcarious changes in the jury
system, such as changes respecting peremptory challenges;
service of women as jurors; conduct of examination on
voir dire by the Judge; abolition of common law jury de
medietate linguae, etc., is not persuasive here. Such
changes do not involve the essential feature of impartiality.
If a statute destroys a defendant's right to challenge a
servant of the Government, as this one does, the Government's right to challenge a servant of the defendant should
likewise be destroyed. The present statute removes the
one but preserves the other, and thus possibly is in violation not only of the Sixth Amendment but of the Fifth
also, as constituting an unreasonable discrimination or
classification.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This case presents the question of the constitutional
validity of the Act of Congress of August 22, 1935, c.
605, 49 Stat. 682, prescribing qualifications for service as
jurors in the District of Columbia, as applied to criminal
prosecutions.
The respondent was convicted of petit larceny in the
Police Court of the District and was sentenced to im:
prisonment for 240 days. The larceny was from a private

UNITED STATES v. WOOD.
123

Opinion of the Court.

corporation. On his trial twelve prospective jurors were
called. Their examination showed that one .was the
holder of a "bonus certificate"; others were employed as
clerks in governmental departments, one in the United
States Weather Bureau, another in the Federal Emergency Administration, a third in the Treasury Department, and a fourth in-the Navy Yard. Another pros
pective juror was a housewife who received a civil war
pension. Each of these persons was challenged for cas-e
upon the ground of interest in the United States Government. The challenge was disallowed. Counsel for defendant then exhausted his three peremptory challenges;
and when the jury was finally selected there remained as
jurors, despite a reiterated challenge for cause, the recipient of the civil war pension and the two clerks employed in the Treasury Department and the Navy Yard
respectively.
The action of the trial court was taken under the Act
of August 22, 1935, which provides that persons of this
description shall be eligible for jury service.' On appeal,
'The provision is as follows:,
"All executive and judicial officers of the Government of the United
States and of the District of Columbia, all officers and enlisted men
of the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard of the United
States in active service, those connected with the police and fire departments of the United States and of the District of Columbia,
counselors and attorneys at law in actual practice, ministers of the
gospel and clergymen of every denomination, practicing physicians
and surgeons, keepers of hospitals, asylums, almshouses, or' other
chafitable institutions created by or under the laws relating to the
District of Columbia, 6aptains and masters and other -persons employed on vessels navigating the waters of the District of Columbia
shall be exempt from jury duty, and their names shall not be placed
on the jury lists.
"All other persons, otherwise qualified according to law whether
employed in the service of the Government of the United States or
of the District of Columbia, all officers and enlisted men of the National Guard of the District of Columbia, both active and retired,

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

the Court of Appeals thus stated the occasion for the
statute, its purport, and the question it raises:
"Prior to the passage of this statute the provision with
relation to the qualifications of a juror was that he should
be a citizen of the United States, a resident of the District
of Columbia, over twenty-one and under sixty-five years
of age, able to read and write and understand the English
language, and a person who had never been convicted of
a felony or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude. In
1908 the Supreme Court held in Crawford v. United
States, 212 U. S. 183, that an employee of the United
all officers and enlisted men of the Military, Naval, Marine, and
Coast Guard Reserve Corps of the United States, all notaries public,
all postmasters and those who are the recipients or beneficiaries of
a pension or other gratuity from the Federal or District Government
or who have contracts with the United States or the District of Columbia, shall be qualified to serve as jurors in the District of Columbia
and shall not be exempt from such service: Provided, That employees
of the Government of the United States or of the District of Columbia
in active service who are called upon to sit on juries shall not be
paid for such jury service but their salary shall not be diminished
during their term of service by virtue of such service, nor shall such
period of service be deducted from any leave of absence authorized
by law."
This Act amended the prior provision known as § 217 of the Code
of Law for the District of Columbia approved March 3, 1901 (Code
D. C. 1929, Tit. 18, § 360) which provided:
"Exemption from jury service.-All executive and judicial officers,
salaried officers of the Government of the United States and of the
District of Columbia, all officers and enlisted men of the National
Guard for the District of Columbia, both active and retired, and
those connected with the police or fire departments, counselors and
,attorneys at law in actual practice, ministers of the gospel and clergymen of every denomination, practicing physicians and surgeons, keepers of hospitals, asylums, almshouses, or other charitable institutions
created by or under the laws relating to the District, captains and
masters and other persons employed on vessels navigating the waters
of the District shall be exempt from jury duty, and their names shall
not be placed on the jury lists."

UNITED STATES v. WOOD.
123

Opinion of the Court.

States was not qualified to serve as a member of a petit
jury in the District of Columbia in the trial of a criminal
case. The effect of the decision and of others of like
nature which followed, resulted, it is said, in narrowing
the eligible list of jurors in the District to the point where
it sometimes became difficult to secure jurors possessing
the necessary qualifications. To correct this, Congress extended the list of eligibles to include employees of the
United States and of the District of Columbia, officers and
enlisted men of the National Guard and of the Military,
Naval, Marine, and Coast Guard Reserve Corps, notaries
public, postmasters, and recipients of pensions and gratuities from the United States or the District, as well as
those having contracts with the United States or the District; and the question we have to decide is whether this
statute, when applied in a criminal case like the present,
is in violation of the provisions of the Sixth Amendment
guaranteeing to the accused in all criminal prosecutions
the right of trial by an impartial jury."
Dealing particularly with the qualification of governmental employees, the court answered this question in
the affirmative and reversed the judgment of conviction.
65 App. D. C. 330; 83 F. (2d) 587. Because of the importance of the question we granted certiorari.
First.-The Sixth Amendment requires that "In all
criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right
to a speedy and public trial, by an impartial jury." The
Amendment prescribes no specific tests. The bias of a
prospective juror may be actual or implied; that is, it
may be bias in fact or bias conclusively presumed as
matter of law. There is no ground for a contentionand we do not find that such a contention is made-that
Congress has undertaken to preclude the ascertainment
of actual bias. All persons otherwise qualified for jufcy
service are subject to examination as to actual bias. All
the resources of appropriate judicial inquiry remain avail-

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

able in this instance as in others to ascertain whether a
prospective juror, although not exempted from service,
has any bias in fact which would prevent his serving as
an impartial juror. In dealing with an employee of the
Government, the court would properly be solicitous to
discover whether, in view of the nature or circumstances
of his employment, or of the relation of the particular
governmental activity to the matters involved in the
prosecution, or otherwise, he had actual bias, and, if he
had, to disqualify him. No bias of that sort is shown
in the instant case.
The question here is as to implied bias, a bias attributable in law to the prospective juror regardless of actual
partiality. The contention of the defendant is that there
must be read into the constitutional requirement an absolute disqualification in criminal cases of a person employed by the Government,-a disqualification which
Congress is powerless to remove or modify. This contention gives rise to two inquiries-(1) whether, in the
practice in England prior to the adoption of the Amendment, or in the colonies, there was an absolute disqualification. of governmental employees to serve on juries
in criminal cases, and (2) whether, either because of that
practice, or in reason, such a disqualification should be
regarded as essential to the impartiality of the jury and
hence beyond the reach of the legislative power. The
Government insists that both questions should be answered in the negative.
Second.-The Government has presented the result of
elaborate research to show that throughout the long
period from the development of the jury system to
modern times, the English common law permitted a
servant of the king to serve as a juror in crown cases,
provided he had no actual bias.
Challenges at common law were to the array, that is,
with respect to the constitution of the panel, or to the

UNITED STATES v. -WOOD.
12,1

Opinion of the Court.

polls, for~disqualification of a juror. Challenges to the
polls were either "principal" or "to the favor," the former
being upon grounds of absolute disqualification, the latter
for actual bias. The Government quotes the statements
of early commentators from Fitzherbert to Hargrave, indicating that a principal challenge was not allowed in
crown cases upon the ground that the prospective juror
was a servant of the crown, and that a challenge for that
reason, if permitted at all, was to the favor.' The Government reviews the early cases in support of this conclusion.' It is not necessary to set forth these authorities
in detail as there seems to be no controversy as to their
purport. We give in the margin the analysis presented
by respondent's counsel.' Their resum6 is as follows:
2Fitzherbert,

Abridgement, Challenge, §§ 17, 63, 65, folios 172, 173

(1577 ed.); Brooke, Abridgement, Challenge, §§ 154, 155, folio 126;
Staunforde, Pleas of the Crown, 162; Coke upon Littleton, I, 156a156b; Hale, Pleas of the Crown, II, 271; Rolle, Abridgment, II, 645646; Duncombe, Trials per Pais (9th ed.) pp. 166-167, 175, 189, 196,
203; Hawkins, Pleas of the Crown, II, c. 43, §§ 32, 33; Bacon,
Abridgment, V, Juries, 355; Viner, Abridgments, XXI, Trial, 243;
Hargraves Coke upon Littleton I, 156; Chitty, Criminal Law, I, 539.
'Year Books, 19 Ass. 62, pl. 6, 4 Henry VII, 8, P. pl. 6; 4 Henry
VII, 3, H. pl. 5; King v. Jenney (1509) Keilw. 97, 72 Eng. Rpt. 261;
Rex v. Genney (1508) Keilw. 102a, 72 Eng. Rpt. 266; Reg. v. Tutchin,
14 St. Tr. 1095, 1101 (1816 ed.); Rex v. Hampden (1683) 9 St. Tr.
1054, 1057-1061; Rex v. Parkyns (1695) 13 St. Tr. 163; Rex v. Rowan
(1793) 22 St. Tr. 1034, 1037-1039; Rex v. Kirwan .(1812) 31 St. Tr.
543; The King v. Edmonds (1821) 4 B. & Aid. 471, 106 Eng. Rpt.
1009; Reg. v. Lacey (1848) 3 Cox Cr. C. 517, 519.
. ' Respondent's brief states: "The following gives
a rough analysis
of the Government's authorities on the right to challenge a King's
Servant:
"Author:

Fitzherbert ...........................
Chief Justice Brooke ..................
Staunforde ...........................
Coke ................................
Lord Hale .............................

Challenge
In Principal

No
No
No
No
No

Challenge
To Favor

Yes
No
Yes
No
Yes

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
299 U. S.

Oninion of the Court.

"From the above it seems. that nineteen authorities
hold that there is no principal cause of challenge against
d Crown Servant; that twelve authorities hold that there
is not even any challenge for favor.

Fitzherbert, Coke,

and Rex v. Hampden, 9 St. Tr. 1054, 1057, 1061, allow
challenges for favor in respect of menial servants. Actual
malice as distinguished from favor was allowed as a challenge by: Staunforde, Lord Hale, Duncombe, Hawkins,
Matthew Bacon, Year Book 19 Ass. 62 P1. 639, Rcx v.
Genney, Keilw. 102 a, Reg. v. Blakeman, 175 Eng. Rpt.

479. Brooke allowed no challenge of any kind for the
defendant but challenge of either kind for the king's side."
Respondent's counsel quote from the commentators
their statements of the reason why a crown servant was
Challe,,c

rncpal
"Author-ContinuedIn
Chief Justice Rolle .................... No
No
Duncombe ...........................
Doubtful
Hawkins .............................
Matthew Bacon ....................... Doubtful
No
Viner ................................
No
Hargrave ............................
Doubtful
Chitty ...............................
The Cases:
Year Book (1346) 19 Ass. 62, pl. 6 ...... No
Year Book, 4 Henry VII 8, P. pl. 7 ...... No
Year Book, 4 Henry VII, 3 H. pl. 5 ...... No
Rex v. Genney, (1508) Keilw. 102a ...... No
Reg. v. Tutchin, 14 St. Tr. 1095, 1101
Doubtful
(1816) .............................
Rex v. Hampden, (1683) 9 St. Tr., 1054,
No
1057-1061 ..........................
Rex v. Parkyns (1695) 13 St. Tr. No. 163. No
Rex v. Rowan (1793) 22 St. Tr. 1034,
1037-1039 .......................... No
Rex v. Kirwan, (1812) 31 St. Tr. 543 .... No
King v. Edmonds, (1821) 4 B. & Ald. 471,
106 Eng. Rpt. 1009 .................. No
Reg. v. Lacey, (1848) 3 Cox Cr. C. 517No
519 ................................

Challenge
To Favor

Yes
No
Doubtful
Doubtful
Yes
No
Yes
No
No
No
No
No
Not decided
No
No
Not decided
No
Not decided"

UNITED STATES v. WOOD.
123

Opinion of the Court.

not challengeable,-as that "he should favor the King
by reason of his obedience";" or, as put iy Lord Coke"because in respect of his allegiance he ought to favor the
king more."'6 Hargrave, expressing dissatisfaction with
the reason assigned by Lord Coke, observed: "But a
better principle to found the rule upon was not. unobvious; namely, that from the extensive variety of the king's
connections with his subjects through tenures and offices,
if favour to him was to prevail as an exception to a juror,
it might lead to an infinitude of objections, and so operate as a serious obstruction to justice in suits in which he
is a party."7 The discussion of the reason for the rule
affirms its existence.
Whatever the reason, it is manifest, to say the least,
that there was no settled practice under the English law
establishing an absolute disqualification of governmental
employees to serve as jurors in criminal cases. - And such
a disqualification cannot, upon the ground of such a practicet be treated as embedded in the Sixth Amendment.
See Callan v. Vilson, 127 U. S. 540, 549; Thompson v.
Utah, 170 U. *S. 343, 350; Patton v. United States, 281
U. S. 276, 288; Dimick v. Schiedt, 293 U. S. 474, 476,
487; Continental Bank v. Chic'ago R. I. & P. Ry., 294
U. S. 648, 669; 2 Story on the Constitution, § 1791.
We turn to the question whether in the colonies, or in
the States at the time of the adoption of the Sixth Amendment, there was such a disqualification. We find no satisfactory evidence to that effect.' Counsel for the Government say that the practice in the colonies, prior to the
adoption of the Federal Constitution "apparently cannot
be ascertairned." They say that they have searched "the
available reports and authorities without finding anything
of relevance." The researches of respondent's counsel
Fitzherbert, op. cit. § 63.

'Coke, op. cit. I, 156a.
'Iargrave,

op. cit. I, 156.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

have not supplied the lack. They urge that, to make the
exception applicable, the Government must affirmatively
show that the colonists recognized the exception in favor
of the king's servants at the time the Sixth Amendment
was formulated. But before we can read an absolute disqualification into the Amendment because of a rule obtaining in the colonies different from that obtaining in
England we must have proof that there was a different
rule. Respondent's contention is based upon a supposed
acceptance of Blackstone's statement of the grounds of a
principal challenge.
"A principal challenge is such where the cause assigned
carries with it prima facie evident marks of suspicion
either of malice or favour; as, that a juror is of kin to
either party within the ninth degree; that he has been
arbitrator on either side; that he has an interest in the
cause; that there is an action depending between him and
the party; that he has taken money for his verdict; that
he has formerly been a juror in the same cause; that he
is the party's master, servant, counsellor, steward, or attorney, or of the same society or corporation with him: all
these are principal causes of challenge; which, if true,
cannot be overruled, for jurors must be omni exceptione
majores." 3 Bl. Com. 363.
Undoubtedly, as we have frequently said, the framers
of the Constitution were familiar with Blackstone's Commentaries. Many copies of the work had been sold here
and it was generally regarded as the most satisfactory
exposition of the common law of England. Schick v.
United States, 195 U. S. 65, 69. But in this instance we
think the point is pressed too far. It will be observed
that Blackstone does not refer specifically to the subject
now under discussion. His statement has relation to
masters and servants of private parties. And, while at
another place he makes the general statement that challenges in criminal cases may be made "for the very same

UNITED STATES v. WOOD.
123

Opinion of the Court.

reasons that they may be made in civil causes" (4 B1. Com.
352), he makes no mention in either instance of the practice in crown cases with respect to servants of the crown.
Blackstone's failure to refer to that historic exception is
obviously not enough to refute the proof of its existence
as shown by the affirmative statements of other commentators and the decided cases. We think that his
omission to mention the case of crown servants cannot
be regarded as a sufficient basis for holding, in the absence
of other evidence, that the common law rule was different
in the colonies from that in England,-much less that the
Congress which proposed the Sixth Amendment, or the
state legislatures which ratified it, undertook to establish
an absolute disqualification of all governmental employees beyond the control of the congressional power.
Respondent relies upon our decision in Crawford v.
United States, 212 U. S. 183. That was a prosecut.ion
in the District of Columbia for conspiracy to defraud
the United States in relation to a contract with the Post
Office Department. One of the grounds of reversal of the
judgment of conviction was the overruling by the trial
court of a challenge to a juror who was a clerk in charge
of a subpostal station located in a drug store. The Court
referred to the qualifications for jurors prescribed by § 215
of the Code of Laws for the District and to the provision
of § 217 exempting from jury duty "salaried officers of the
Government." Assuming the contention to be sound
that the mere fact that a proposed juror was such a salaried officer could be ground only for his own claim of
exemption, the Court expressed the opinion that the provisions of the sections of the Code did not embrace the
entire subject of the qualifications of jurors; that by the
common law there was a further qualification, and that
under that law in force in Maryland, and applicable to
the district, the court should have held the juror disqualified by reason of his employment. Id., pp. 195, 196.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

It will be observed that the employment was in the very
department to the affairs of which the alleged conspiracy
related. But the decision took a broader range and did
not rest upon that possible distinction. The Court was
not aided by a careful or comprehensive presentation of
the English precedents and it was not shown that the
courts of Maryland had passed upon the point. The
above-mentioned statement of Blackstone was cited for
the proposition "that one is not a competent juror in a
case if he is master, servant, steward, counsellor or attorney of either party." The Court also cited the decision in Block v. State, 100 Ind. 357, 362, which was said
to follow that rule of the common law. In that case the
juror was a deputy of the prosecuting attorney. The
latter, as the state court said, "was by analogy and for
all practical purposes, the plaintiff in the prosecution"
and the deputy "had become and was the employee and
subordinate of the prosecuting attorney" and therefore
"impliedly biased" (Id., p. 364).' In the Crawford case
this Court also referred to the decisions cited in the dissenting opinion in the court below (30 App. D. C., p.
33) to the effect that "a clerk or employ6 of a private
party or of a corporation is not qualified to sit as a juror,"
and it was said that. while the cases cited were civil cases,
the rule applied to criminal cases as well.' The rule
8

See, also, Zimmeiman v. State, 115 Ind. 129, 17 N. E. 258; Gaff v.
State, 155 Ind. 277, 58 N. E. 74; Evans v. State, 13 Ga. App. 700,
79 S. E. 916; State v. Golubski, 45 S.W. (2d) 873.
'But see as to various officers held to be qualified, when not found
to have actual bias: Jackson v. State, 74 Ala. 26, 29 (coroner); Pate
v. State, 158 Ala. 1, 3, 48 So. 388 (deputy sheriff); Spittorf] v. State,
168 Ind. 171, 172, 8 N. E. 911 (bailiff); O'Connor v. State, 9 Fla.
215, 221, 222 (coroner); State v. Adams, 20 Iowa 486 (county supervisor); State v. McDonald, 59 Kan. 241, 244, 52 Pac. 453 (school
district officers) ; State v. Carter, 106 La:407, 30 So. 895 (constable);
State v. Petit, 119 La. .1013, 44 So. 848 (deputy sheriff); State v.
Foster, 150 La. 971, 985, 986, 91 So. 411 (deputy sheriff); Fellows'

UNITED STATES v. WOOD.
123

Opinion of the Court.

which had obtained in England with respect to the qualifications of servants of the crown to serve as jurors in
crown cases was not mentioned, and the authorities to
which we have referred in that relation were not brought.
to the attention of the Court.
In the light of the English precedents, and in thr
absence of any satisfactory showing of a different practice
in the colonies, we are unable to accept the ruling in the
Crawford case as determinative here or to reach the conclusion that it was a settled rule of the common law prior
to the adoption of the Sixth Amendment that the mere
fact of a governmental employment, unrelated to the
particular issues or circumstances of a criminal prosecution, created an absolute disqualification to serve as a
juror in a criminal case.
Third.-Even if it could be said that at common law
such a disqualification existed, we are of the opinion that
Conlgress had power to remove it. That point was not
touched in the Crawford case. Indeed it was said, referring to the Code of Laws of the'District of Columbia,
that if the provision of § 215, together with § 217, "were
alone to be consi(Iered, it might be that the juror was
qualified." And, further, in referring to Block v. State,
supra, the ruling there was summarized as being to the
effect "that the Indiana statute upon the qualification of
jurors did not strike out the rule of the common law
on the subject, when not, inconsistent with the statute."
(ase. 5 Maine 333, 334 (constable) ; State v. Wright, 53 Maine :328,
.34t, 345 (coroner) ; People v. Lange, 90 Mich. 454, 455, 51 N. W. 5:3
(Justices of the peace); Glassintgcr v. State, 24 Ohio St. 206 (justice
of the peace) ; State v. Cosgrove, 16 R. I. 411, 16 Ati. 900 (constable) ;
Burns v. Statc, 12 Tex. App. 269, 277-8 (deputy sheriff); Mingo v.
State, 61 Tex. Cr. Rep. 14, 15, 133 S. W. SS2 tdeputy sheijff); coinpare Chapman v. State. 66 Tex. Cr. Rep. 489, 401, 147 S. W. 5S0;
State v. Parkcr, 104 Vt. 494, 497, 498, 162 AtI. 696 (deputy -heriff);
Thompson v. Coin rnonwealth, 88 Va. 45, 46, 13 S. E. 304 (city treasurer and councilman).

142

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

The observations of the Court in the Crawford case, in
the absence of such an'act of Congress as that now under
consideration, should not be taken as attempting to set
up an absolute rule to be applied in the face of specific
legislation. The question of legislative power was neither
presented nor passed upon.
Whether a clause in the Constitution is to be restricted
by a rule of the common law as it existed when the Constitution was adopted depends upon the terms or nature
of the particular clause. Continental Bank v. Chicago,
R. I. & P. Ry., supra. We have frequently adverted to
the firm place which the jury as a fact-finding body holds
in our history and jurisprudence. Dimick v. Schiedt,
supra, pp. 485, 486. The Constitution would have been
"justly obnoxious to the most conclusive objection" if
the right of trial by jury, as the bulwark of civil and
political liberties, had not been recognized and confirmed
"in the most solemn terms." Id.; 2 Story on the Constitution, § 1779. And the importance of safeguarding
the complete integrity of the jury in the full sense of
the Constitution is not to be gainsaid.
We have described the essential elements of "trial by
jury." In Patton v. United States, supra, we said that
these elements as recognized in this country and England
when the Constitution was adopted were "(1) the jury
should consist of twelve men, neither more nor less;
(2) that the trial should be in the presence and under the
superintendence of a judge having power to instruct
them as to the law and advise them in respect of the facts;
and (3) that the verdict should be unanimous." None
of these elements is involved here.
The Sixth Amendment was not needed to require trial
by jury in cases of crimes. That requirement is provided
by Article III, § 2, paragraph 3. The Sixth Amendment
provided further assurances. It added that in all criminal
prosecutions the accused shall enjoy the right "to a

UNITED STATES v. WOOD.
123

Opinion of the Court.

speedy and public trial, by an impartial jury of the State
and district wherein the crime shall have been committed, which district shall have been previously ascertained by law, and to be informed of the nature and
cause of the accusation; to be confronted with the witnesses against him; to have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his favor, and to have the Assistance
of Counsel for his defence." These requirements as to
speed, publicity, imp,".iality, information as to the
charge, confrontation with witnesses, compulsory process
and assistance of counsel are all of first importance. But
it would hardly be contended that in all these matters
regard must be had to the particular forms'and procedure
used at common law. These requirements relate to matters of substance and not of form. And the true purpose
of the Amendment can be achieved only by applying
them in that sense.
In construing the Seventh Amendment providing for
the preservation of trial by jury in suits at common law,
and that no fact tried by a jury shall be otherwise reexamined "than according to the rules of the common
law," we have said that the aim of the Amendment was
"to preserve the substance of the common law right of
trial by jury as distinguished from mere matters of form
or procedure." Baltimore & Carolina Line v. Redman,
295 U. S. 654, 657. See, also, Walker v. New Mexico &
Southern Pacific R. Co., 165 U. S. 593, 596; Gasoline
Products Co. v. Champlin Refining Co., 283 U. S. 494,
498. We held in Ex parte Peterson, 253 U. S. 300, that
there was no constitutional obstacle to the appointment
by a federal court of an auditor in aid of jury trials although the practice in question had not obtained prior to
the adoption of the Constitution either in England or in
the colonies in connection with trial by jury. The ruling
rested upon the fundamental consideration that "New
devices may be used to adapt the ancient institution to
present needs and to make of it an efficient instrument

144

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

in the administration of justice. Indeed, such changes
are essential to the preservation of the right." Id.,
pp. 309, 310.
This principle of construction has also had notable application to the requirement of trial by jury in criminal
prosecutions. In the recent case of Funk v. United
States, 290 U. S. 371, 372, this Court, without the aid of
legislative enactment, held that the wife of the defendant
on trial for a criminal offence in a federal court was a
competent witness in his behalf. The Court overruled
cases to the contrary, sustaining the power of the federal
courts "to declare and effectuate, upon common law principles, what is the present rule upon a given subject in
the light of fundamentally altered conditions, without regard to what has previously been declared and practiced."
It was deemed to be axiomatic "that the common law is
not immutable but flexible, and by its own principles
adapts itself to varying conditions." Id., p. 383. And
what courts can thus do to assure the appropriate growth
and adaptation of the law a fortiori can be achieved by
the action of a competent legislature.
In Patton v. United States, supra, the Court answered
in the affirmative a question certified by the CircuitCourt
of Appeals, whether, in case a juror became incapacitated
during a trial upon indictment, the defendant and the
Government could consent "to the trial proceeding to a
finality with eleven jurors" and the defendant could
"thus waive the right to a trial and verdict by a constitutional jury of twelve men." The Court said that "it
might be conceded, at least generally, that under the rule
of the common law the accused was not permitted to
waive trial by jury." But the Court did not think it
necessary to consider that phase of the matter as "the
rule of the common law, whether exclusive or subject to
exceptions, was justified by conditions which no longer
exist." Id., p. 306. And the Court found no convincing
ground for holding that a waiver of a jury trial was not

UNITED STATES v. WOOD.
123

Opinion of the Court.

as effective in the case of felonies as in that of
misdemeanors. Id., p. 309.
The Sixth Amendment does not preclude legislation
making women qualified to serve as jurors in criminal
prosecutions, although that was not permitted at common
law. Tynan v. United States, 297 Fed. 177, 178, 179;
Hoxie v. United States, 15 F. (2d) 762. Although aliens
are within the protection of the Sixth Amendment, the
ancient rule under which an alien might have a trial by
jury de medietate linguae, "one half denizens and the
other aliens,"-in order to insure impartiality-no longer
obtains.1 ° Congress has reduced the number of peremptory challenges of the accused. This number, which was
"settled by the common law" at thirty-five and fixed by
the statute 22 Hen. VIII, c. 14, at twenty (4 Bl. Com.
354), has been reduced in the case of felonies, other than
treason or capital offences, to ten. 28 U. S. C. 424; Code
D. C., Tit. 6, § 366. In Stilson v. United States, 250 U. S.
583, 586, we said on this point: "There is nothing in the
Constitution of the United States which requires the Congress to grant peremptory challenges to defendants in
criminal cases; trial by an impartial jury is all that is
secured. The number of challenges is left to be regulated
by the common law or the enactments of Congress."
And the same was held to be true of the authority of
Congress to treat several defendants, for this purpose, as
one party. It is not necessary to multiply illustrations of
the familiar principle which, while safeguarding the essence of the constitutional requirements, permits readjustments of procedure consistent with their spirit and
purpose.
Impartiality is not a technical conception. It is a
state of mind. For the ascertainment of this mental atti"°See United States v. Cartacho, Fed. Cas. 14,738; Respublica v.
Mesca, 1 Dall. 73; People v. McLean, 2 Johns. 381; Thompson &
Merriam on Juries, §§ 16, 17, and cases and statutes there cited.
107510°-37

-

10

146

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

tude of appropriate indifference, the Constitution lays
down no particular tests and procedure is not chained to
any ancient and artificial formula. State courts enforcing
similar requirements of state constitutions as to trial by
jury have held that legislatures enjoy a reasonable freedom in establishing qualifications for jury service, although these involve a departure from common law rules.
This principle was thus stated by the Court of Appeals
of New York in Stokes v. People, 53 N. Y. 164, 173:
"While the Constitution secures the right of trial by an
impartial jury, the mode of procuring and impaneling
such jury is regulated by law, either common or statutory,
principally the latter, and it is within the power of the
legislature to make, from time to time, such changes in
the law as it may deem expedient, taking care to preserve
the right of trial by an impartial jury." And in Brown v.
State, 62 N. J. L. 666, 678; 42 Atl. 811, the Court of
Errors and Appeals of New Jersey enunciated the same
doctrine: "The provision in our constitution (paragraph
8), that the accused should have a right to a speedy and
public trial by an impartial jury, secured to the accused
a right to a trial by an impartial jury by an express constitutional provision. The means by which an impartial
jury should be obtained are not defined. In neither of
the constitutional provisions on this subject is there any
requirement with respect to challenges, or to the qualifications of jurors, or the mode in which the jury shall be
selected. These subjects were left in the discretion of
the legislature, with no restriction or limitation, except
that the accused should have the right to be tried by
an impartial jury."
One of the grounds of principal challenge at common
law was that a juror was "related to either party within
the ninth degree, though it is only by marriage.""I It
appears that this restriction has been reduced in a num, Chitty, op. cit. I, 541; Coke, op. cit. 157th; 3 B1. Corn. 363.

UNITED STATES v. WOOD.
123

Opinion of the Court.

ber of States to degrees from the third to the sixth. " The
common law rule with respect to jurors who have formed
an opinion upon the subject of the controversy has been
liberalized by legislation which meets the essential condition of impartiality while taking account of modern
conditions. 3 The disqualification of taxpayers in cases
where a municipality is. interested has been removed by
statute in many States." In Commonwealth v. Reed,
1 Gray 472, the court held that action of that sort was
not a violation of the Massachusetts Declaration of
Rights securing to every citizen "the right to be tried
by judges as free, impartial and independent, as the lot
of humanity will admit." The court thought that an
exemption "from an interest which is only theoretic or
imaginary, or which is so remote and trifling and insignificant, that it may fairly be supposed to be incapable
of affecting the judgment or of influencing the conduct of
an individual, is not essential." And referring to the particular contention as to the interest of a taxpayer of a
town in the penalties demanded, the court added: "Such
an interest as arises from that cause is remote and
minute; and it may well devolve upon the legislature to
determine if it ought to disable an otherwise impartial
citizen from serving in the capacity of a juror. The rule
established by such authority must, in general, be the
guide by which courts of law will be controlled."
The ultimate question is not whether Congress has
changed a Common law rule, but whether, in reason, an
"See, for example, the provisions of state 'codes or general laws in
Alabama, § 8610; Arkansas, § 6334; Florida, § 4359; Indiana, § 91504-4; Louisiana, Art. 507 (1); Missouri, § S771; Tennessee,
§ 10007; Vermont, § 1237.
" See Stokes v. People, supra; Spies v. Illinois, 123 U. S. 131, 167169; Hopt v. Utah, 120 U. S. 430, 433-435.
"Coke, op. cit. I, 157a, 157b; Wood v. Stoddard, 2 Johns. 194;
Diveny v. Elmira, 51 N. Y. 506, 509, 510; Thompson and Merriam.
op. cit. § 179.

OCTOBER TERM. 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

absolute disqualification of governmental employees to
serve as jurors in criminal cases is essential to the impartiality of the jury. The Government stresses the factual
situation in the District of Columbia before the enactment of the statute before us. Respondent replies that
a large proportion of governmental employees are in any
event disqualified because of legal residence elsewhere.
But after making every allowance for that class, it is
still true that in the District of Columbia there is a numerous body of persons' who, except for the fact of
governmental employment, would be eligible for service
as jurors and whose service, by reason of their intelligence
and character, would be highly desirable. That fact is
emphasized by the congressional committees which recoinmended the passage of the Act."' They stated, after
referring to the exemptions then existing: "These exemptions take from those who would otherwise be qualified
some of the best jurymen available and make the empaneling of a jury much more difficult." The bill was
recommended by the bar association of the District, by
the district commissioners and by the corporation counsel." It is manifest that the Act was passed to meet a
public need and that no interference with the actual
impartiality of the jury was contemplated. The enactment itself is tantamount to a legislative declaration that
The court below estimates that "In the District of Columbia more
than a hundred thousand government employees will be qualified as
jurors if the statute is valid." 65 App. D. C. 330; 83 F. (2d) p. 592.
"H. R. Rep. No. 1421; Sen. Rep. No. 1297; 74th Cong., 1st sess.
'7 Cong. Rec., 74th Cong., 1st sess., Vol. 79, pt. 12, p. 13401. The
bill was drafted by a committee consisting of the president of the
district bar association, the president of the Federation of Citizens'
Associations, the chairman of the Traffic Committee of the Board of
Trade, the president of the Federation of Civic Associations, a member of the Public Utilities Commission, and representatives of the
district government. Sen. Rep. No. 1347.

UNITED STATES v. WOOD.
123

Opinion of the Court.

the prior disqualification was artificial and not necessary
to secure impartiality.
Why should it be assumed that a juror, merely because
of employment by the Government, would be biased
against the accused? In criminal prosecutions the Government is acting simply as the instrument of the public
in enforcing penal laws for the protection of society. In
that enforcement all citizens are interested. It is difficult to see why a governmental employee, merely by
virtue of his employment, is interested in that enforcement either more or less than any good citizen is or
should be. The instant case is a good illustration. The
accused was on trial for theft from a store of a private
corporation. Can it be seriously urged that to assure
an impartial jury for his trial it is necessary to segregate
governmental employees from other citizens of the District upon the theory that the former are biased against
him? What possible interest in such a case has a governmental employee different from that of any citizen
who wishes to see crime properly punished but is free
from any actual bias against the alleged offender? And
what appears to be so obviously true in this case of larceny would be true also in criminal prosecutions in general, running the gamut of offences from murder, burglary
and robbery to cheats and disturbances of the peace. We
think that the imputation of bias simply by virtde of
governmental employment, without regard to any actual
partiality growing out of the nature and circumstances
of particular cases, rests on an assumption without any
rational foundation.
It is said that particular crimes might be of special
interest to employees in certain governmental departments, as, for example, the crime of counterfeiting, to
employees of the treasury. But when we consider the
range of offenses and the general run of criminal prosecutions, it is apparent that such cases of special interest

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

would be exceptional. The law permits full inquiry as to
actual bias in any such instances. We repeat, that we arc
not dealing with actual bias and, until the contrary appears, we must assume that the courts of the District,
with power fully adequate to the occasion, will be most
careful in those special instances, where circumstances
suggest that any actual partiality may exist, to safeguard
the just interests of the accused. While bias, as has been
said, is "an elusive condition of the mind," that consideration affords no ground for extreme and fanciful tests.
To impute bias as matter of law to the jurors in question here would be no more sensible than to impute bias
to all storeowners and householders in cases of larceny or
burglary.
It is suggested that an employee of the Government
may be apprehensive of the termination of his employment in case he decides in favor of the accused in a criminal case. Unless the suggestion be taken to have reference to some special and exceptional case, it seems to us
far-fetched and chimerical. It does not rise to the dignity
of an argument to be addressed to the power of Congress
to provide a reasonable scheme with respect to the qualifications of jurors. It belongs in the category of "theoretic.
or imaginary" interests--"remote" and "insignificant" as
described in the Massachusetts case above cited.
Nor are we impressed with the contention that the
qualification of governmental employees for jury service
in criminal cases in the District of Columbia will impair
the public respect in which the processes of the law
should be held. On the contrary, we think that the spectacle of the exclusion en masse from that service of a body
of citizens otherwise highly desirable in point of intelligence and character-solely by reason of their employment by the Government-and the imposition in consequence of a heavier burden upon other citizens, whether
that exclusion would be iii deference to a supposed an-

UNITED STATES v. WOOD.
123

Opinion of the Court.

cient rule or because of a conclusive presumption of bias
against an accused, would constitute a serious reproach
to the competency and efficiency of the administration of
the system of jury trials.
What has been said applies with equal force to the
provisions of the statute qualifying those who receive
governmental pensions and gratuities.
Fourth. Respondent also raises the question of the
validity of the statute under the due process clause of the
Fifth Amendment. For the reasons already given, we
find nothing arbitrary or capricious in the legislative
action.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed and
the judgment of conviction is affirmed.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE

and MR.

MCREYNOLDS. MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND,

JUSTICE BUTLER

are of opinion that the case is

controlled by our decision in Crawford v. United States,
212 U. S. 183, and that the rule there laid down should
not now be departed from. They think the opinion of
the court below is sound, and that its judgment should
be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

decision of this case.

took no part in the consideration or

